 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HlUllHHJHIllll   ______ VOL-4 NO,4
            IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL
 Editorials*
        ISSUE ACCELERATE
 Need for Prior Accord Among
            Mujaheddin
       For several months now the Afghans have been pressured by outside powers to arrange a so-called "inter-Afghan dialogue" for finding solution to the Afghanistan war. Although the ultimate aim of „ the international community-spearheaded by the United Nations- is to include the Kabul regime in the "inter-Afghan dialogue", parallel efforts are being exerted to get Afghan parties other than communists to jointly agree on an Afghan strategy to end the war in our country through political means.
       The Afghan parties are being particularly pressured by Pakistan and Iran to come together and help implement a UN alternative presented by its Secretary General earlier this year. This plan calls for the establishment of an interim government to pave the way for the establishment of permanent national institutions on the basis of universal elections in Afghanistan.
       The crux of the matter is that, despite the long anguishes whi.ch the Afghan people have been subjected to, there is no real will and resolve on the part of our leaders to find a solution to the Afghan problem either through military action or diplomatic efforts, the kind of solution which of course should safeguard the Islamic interests of the pe ople of Afghanistan, interests for' which they have paid dearly.
                   This vivid display of indifference onthe part of Afghan leadership to find a solution to the Afghan problem has indeed disappointed both the foreign powers and the overwhelming majority of the Afghans to the extent that they have lost their confidence in present leadership all across the line. Yet the Afghan nation has been a victim of circumstances unable to bring about any change in the leadership and pave the way for a dynamic one dedicated to
    ^ m r /^T>* T 47 MfSM
 ./yi-V.: iitii.       Vy »
 P.O. Box 1323, Kabul, Afghanistan Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25886
PRICE: SERIAL NO:
SHAH M BOOK CO
PRINTERS, PUBLISHERS, DISTRIBUTORS & BOOKSELLERS
c ...shahm.bookco@usa.net E"mai' shahmbookco@onebox.com
PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 end honorably our tragedy.
      So, as  t h ings stand  right now, we have to   make efforts to
 find a solution to our problems within the present context and reality and do not elude ourselves about a change in the leadership first.
      For Pakistanis and Iranians- who have become the benefactors of various groups of mujaheddin- and for the United Nations it will be wrong to seek an Afghan solution before a solution is worked out for a number of’problems prevailing among the credible elements of   the Afghan society. Once  a  compromise is  reached  on
 these problems, a change of heart might take place and the mujaheddin    leaders might willingly    participate    in finding  a
 solution to the Afghanistan1 problem.
      What are the important factors that have so far prevented our leaders to work out a common approach for solving the Afghanistan issue and also to abide by their agreements in this respec t?
    -inability to work together;
   - unwillingness to embrace in the leadership ranks other
     credible elements of      the  Afghan society:   they have been
     insisting to deal with the seven Peshawar based organizations which at one juncture comprised the AIG .
   - unwillingness to assign jobs of the government to those specialists, who are committed to our cau-ses and yet do not belong to their parties.
      To insist on a change of leadership at this juncture will simply not be wise and practical. It is our earnest hope that a group of sincere Afghans will rise from the very ranks of jehad and help the leaders overcome these problems. How will such a group or a "task force" be able to help eliminate these obstacles?
     (1) Many alternatives have been offered by many Afghans -including pur very leaders - for solving the issue. The task force should study these options and alternatives .and point out the common points.
                                                                4
     (2) It should also be mindful of the past experiences and the factors which have caused, the collapse of ventures towards alliances or effective governments.
 It should only concern itself with evolving a proposal the establishment of an interim government, the mandates life span of which should be clear and specific.
     (4) It should work its proposed alternative in ^close
(3)
for
and
                                                             4
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991 IlflHflWJM____________VOL. 4 NO.4
   consultation with the mujaheddin leaders and other parties closely concerned with the Afghan developments.
   (5) Any plan proposed by the task force should clearly dispel the fear and. apprehention of our leaders that a coup d'etate is being hatched against them.
    In our view, it is ''essential thatiourieaders whether they are based in Pashawar or Tehran should first of all reach an agreement on points such as the ones enumerated here. At present, as it is being observed, important parties such as both HIA and 11A have refrained from participating in Islamabad-Tehran sponsored conferences and also a number of Shia parties with whom Iran is not on good terms are either not being invited in these gathernings or they are dealt with improperly.. It ought to be the duty of the "task force" to evolve the affairs around two main axes of (1) brining about a prior agreement among Afghan parties on a joint strategy and (2) the Afghan themselves without forein interference take charge of the task of paving the way for the solution of the Afghan crisis as also demanded by the United Nations Secretary General.
    Other than making such a move, how else we might be able to come out of the present quagmire? The other alternative may be an
imposed solution which will surely ignore and trample the interests of our people and the principles for which they have rendered so much sacrifice.
IMPACTS OF SOVIET CHANGES
                  ON AFGHANISTAN
    Because of the ups and downs in our relations with the Soviet Union, because of our geographic proximity with them and because of the fact' that their defeat on our hands unleashed the collapse of their empire and signaled the disintegration of the very so-called Union of the Socialist Soviet Republics, the changes taking place in that country have been of special interest to our people. Due to this interest, it is natural for our people to make many kinds of speculations especially in regrad to future Soviet attitude towards its puppet regime in Kabul-.'
      The present transformation taking pla&e in the Soviet Union is not only beneficial to us but to the entire world and to the cause of freedom and human rights and dignity. We welcome them.
    »’              i                            .           '
      But what are some of the impacts that these changes might
                                            - -  ’       T
                                                 5
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         fl(GHAHJIHAD                VOL. 4 NO.4
have on    us?  And are we, as immediate neighbours    of  the Soviet
Union ready to cope             with them taking in    view the utter
non-existence of a national cohesive and dynamic Afghan leadership?
     One   immediate consequence    of these changes-   specially the
defeat of conservative and right-wing elements may well be the reluctance of Kremlin to continue its heart- felt support of the puppet Kabul regime. The Soviet-US decision to halt dispatch of arms to Afghanistan could be described as the beginning .of this new policy of further Soviet disengagement in Afghanistan and its lack of    interest to sustain     the Ndjib regime politically   and
economically.
     But    it will be perhaps more    appropriate for we  Afghans to
think about     the long term effects   of the changes in  the Soviet
Union on   our country. These changes  are thought to  accelerate the
downfall of the present Kabul regime and either the secession of the various Soviet republics      from the center or     at least the
emergence of stronger republics, pursuing vigorous policies aimed at protecting their own cultural, ethnical and economic interests. We have  three     of  these Soviet       republics as our  immediate
neighbours. We should closely examine the consequences of the emergence of stronger republics inside Russia on our own people of same racial background. Would a vigorous cultural, social and economic program by these republics have any fallout on the other side of the border? ,
     A consideration of this aspect of the. consequences of events in the Soviet Union immediately leads to the need for the emergence of a strong national government deriving its power from a national consensus. Right now we lack such a government. It will be up to our leaders to respond to this historical challenge and stop their petty differences. But, at the same time, we should not even for a moment entertain the idea of having a government in which the « rights and privileges of our ethnical groups are compromised. All of us should live as equals cherishing .Islamic fraternity and amicability. Lack of a strong natioal government or ignoring the rights of all our ethnical groups might very well entail, God forbid, the disintegration of our motherland for the protection of which we have prided ourselves throughout the history.
     The fall of the Najib government and our inability to replace that regime with a strong and dynamic government is in one way related to the issue of keeping Afghanistan intact and ' in another way to the issue of rebuilding the country and avoiding further bloodshed and insecurity and struggle for power.
     Talking too loudly and gleefully gloating over the ruins of the Russian Empire may be natural for a people who have suffered untold miseries and anguishes as a result of Russian policies of
                                                6
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         WGIIIINJlllllfl            VOL. 4  NO.4
 agoression and imperialism. Bat let as at the same time get to the point and face the challenges which events in the Soviet Union are forcing upon us.
 LONG-TERM RESPONSIBILITIES OF ISLAMIC PARTIES
     The question often asked is, how will the Islamic oriented parties of Afghanistan fare in elections, which it is hoped by many Afghan quarters, including the Islamic parties, will be held at b some stage in the future of Afghanistan after a transitional government's manadate is over? If we are serious about the rule of Islam in Afghanistan of the future, we should be equally serious about building up a national organization which in the event of general elections will be able to capture the power and rule the country in accordance with Islamic norms and standards.
     In the life of nations nothing is more dangerous and suicidal than apathy, indifference and over - c.o nfidence. Such a state of mind usually is a product of an impressive achievement or success making one think that things are going his way and there is no longer a need to worry or work,hard.
     In our case it would mean that as we brought a super-power down to its knees and, Cod willing, we may soon topple the puppet regime of that superpower, then there.will be no need to worry as the people are on our side.
                                                   / \
     Once before within our own living memory such a thing happened. Remember the Constitutional Decade of 1963-73 when a multitude of parties flourished in our country.’ Due t<p the emergence of a weak central government, a power vacuum had come about. The Muslims and the Communists were the two main rivals and indeed the two main Contenders to fill the vacuum. The Muslims, despite the emergence of the mo veme n t of Islamic You.th, who, indeed» commanded the majority, were left behind as the communists staged a coup and seized the power. It was because wewere apathic and overconfident.
     What we are trying to say is that if we are to have a rule of Islam in our country, even though the time for elections and winning the seat Of power in Kabul may seem far or easy for us, we have to work hard for it right from this minute.
     There is no doubt that at present we have a number of Islamic parties which claim to be exactly doing the same. But what is being done is not enough and at times superficial or apt to create
                                                     7
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         MGIIIINJIIIMI              VOL.  4 NO.4
misunderstandig or failing, to win the near ts and minds of the Muslim people of Afghanistan. It also at times creates the impression- or at least our enemies are trying to create the impression that the Islamic parties are pursuing extremist policies and unable of governing the country, while we all know that Islam advocates the golden medium in the conduct of affairs and is a religion of tolerance and respect for mankind and dedicated to the moral and meterial welfare of the society.
     Our Islamic parties have to, from right now, make strenuous and nationwide efforts for chartering a program to       eventually
capture power not by coercion but through the will of people whatever mechanism we may adopt to that expression of will. They have to prove to the nation through the programs they workout and through the actions they persue that they are the only choice’ of our Muslim people.
     If they adopt right policies based not on hypocracy or a lust for power or bigotry, but on the basis of true Islamic spirit, they will   surerly be the  party of the future:  LET ARISE OUT  OF
YOU A GROUP OF PEOPLE INVITING TO ALL THAT IS GOOD, ENJOINING WHAT IS RIGHT,   AND FORBIDDING   WHAT IS WRONG:  THEY ARE THE ONES   TO
ATTAIN FELICITY (The Holy Quran: Sura  III: Verse 104).
     Enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong in the true spirit of . Islam will enable our people to reap benefits from the blessings of the achivements of mankind but yet remain good arid exemplary Muslims.
     Our purpose in saying all this is not to suggest the formation of a brand new Islamic party but we are hoping for the emergence of true Islamic fraternity among all the members and true sons of Islamic organizations as well as those, who do not belong to these organizations so that, on the one hand, the task of toppling the hireling regime is facilitated and on the other hand they be able to workout short term and long-term programs for the political, social and economic development of the country and announce a policy supported by the Muslim people of Afghanistan and win their confidence to the extent that they are voted into the office by an overwhelming majority.
                   "I
     By adopting such a policy the real purpose and objective of our jehad-the establishment of an Islamic government- will be realized: AND SAY:  "WORK (RIHGTOUSNESS): SOON GOD AND HIS APOSTLE
AND THE BELIEVERS: WILL OBSERVE YOUR WORK, (The Holy' Quran: Sura IX: Verse 105), People will judge us on the basis of our deeds and not on the basis of what we utter as empty slogans. It will be under such cicumstances that non-Is1amic groups and parties will not win the game on ’the basis of their hollow and deceitful promises and slogans and the people will remain on our side.
                                                   8
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
POLICY OF D0II8LE STANDARD
    The Afghan Jehad from the very start has embarked on .offering all round information on Afghan current affairs, no matter these facts and the information come from the mujaheddin, international community or from our adversaries. We have been doing this despite the fact that we have been working on the proud side of the Afghan war, the side which represents freedom and liberation of Afghanistan for the sake of establishing a just and tolerant Islamic society.
    On the basis of such a policy, we have published, in this issue a summary of the activities of the Society for National Salvation of Afghanistan which has been established in Kabul two years ago, and, according to its members, has been allowed by the Kabul authorities to function freely. We do not hold any special bias in regard to this society. However, we condemn its style of presentation and interpretation of the Afghanistan problem since it treats the mujaheddin leadership and the Kabul regime on an equal footing, while the muj, aheddin, despite the many ills and shortcomings of their leadership, have been representing and have been fighting for the cause of justice and Almighty God, while the Kabul regime has been symbolizing the aggression of our country by the Soviet Union as well as the destruction of Afghanistan. This government is comprized of a band of traitors who serve the cause of atheism, communism, treason and they are using Islam and its sanctities for their own promotion. On the one side, is the party of God and on the other side is the party of satan and evil forces and we just cannot understand how a society claiming to be objective could treat the two equally if, at the same time, it claims that the Kabul government does not hinder its activities.
                                               9
 JULY-SEPTEMBER» 1991 MGHflHiKHAB         VOL.4 N0.4
Political Dimension:
NAHB READY TO STEP DOWN
e
     During the past three months, the political dimension of the Afghan problem, as a result of a series of planned or unplanned events, assumed new dynamism and opened many avenues for what previously seemed to be a cul-de-sac-. Thus, domestic and the international authorities resorted to fresh activities. Meeting's and contacts were held at different levels by mujaheddin leaders and foreign officials.
1.    The main factor of this new dynamism is the UN Secretary General's 5-point proposal which was announced last May and paved the way for serious discussions regarding the Afghan problem. His remarks at the end of Octobez in his report on Afghanistan that Kabul regime President Najib would step down to facilitate a settlement of the conflect created further optimism.
2.    Formation of a 28-member commission by the mujaheddin in this connection, was a new step aimed at providing alternative to the UN plan.
3.    A conference of Iran, Pakistan and mujaheddin, also aimed to create consensus among the parties in response to the UN plan.
4.    The abortive coup in Russia was unexpected inducing the Soviet Union to adopt new policies towards Afghanistan.
5.   Negative symmetry, announced by the USA and the USSR, was interpreted as* a manifestation of the new policy adopted by the USSR in regard to Afghanistan.
6.   The fresh OIC resolution, participation of the mujaheddin delegation in the UN session and their willingness to visit the Soviet Union were also regarded new developments in Afghan scenario.
                            THE UN PLAN: TO ACCEPT OR TO REJECT
     Afghans, and all others concerned with the Afghan issue were all showing their mixed feeling about a UN plan for the peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan issue announced last May. At first, it seemed as though the plan was accepted by all the foreign countries and, besides the USA and the USSR, other governments concerned with the solution of the Afghan problem, •such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Iran and the OIC completely had agreed to it but the resolutions passed by the Islamabad and Tehran tripartite conferences and the OIC reveal that they have reservations about the plan:
     The Afghans reacted to the plan both favourably and adveresly:
* This analysis contains material related to October when the magazine was being sent for printing.
                                          10
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                    IlfflllllNJIHIIfl                                       VOL-    4  NO.4
  1.   Those who have basically rejected this plan, ranged from the solid and inflexible stance adopted by Professor Sayyaf and Engineer Hekmatyar, who have from the very first instance rejected the political solution and stressed upon the military solution, to Professor Rabbani who expressed agreement with Prof. Sayyaf and Engineer Hekmatyar only Once and that too in a communique published in Arabic, signed by the leaders of HIA, IIA and JIA. (Ref. Text of the Communique in the Jehad Documents).
      According to Mawlawi Khales, leader.of the HIA (Khales), this plan would be acceptable only if all the "unjust agreements" signed between the USSR and the Kabul regime since 1978 are declared null and void. But then Mawlawi Khales has rejected all kinds of political solutions and has clearly stated that the Afghan problem has to be settled on the point of gun.
  2.   Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Mujaddedi, Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni, Mawlawi
      Mohammadi, leaders of the Coalition Council, HWIA, Mawlawi Moazfcen and some other parties while opposing negotiation with Najib, have found positive points in the UN plan. Otherwise they regard the plan as worthy of consideration.        1 .
  3.   Leader of NIFA, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Director of Aid to Afghanistan Organization, Sayyed Ishaq Gailani in Pakistan/ and the Afghans in Europe such as former Premier Dr. Yousuf, the ex-King Mohammad Zaher Shah and a former deputy Premier Abdul Samad Hamed have supported the UN plan, without referring to Najib, and have considered it as a means to end the war.
      Some of personalities spoke about this jblan in a conference 2 August, organized "by WUFA at Peshawar. It was a worthwhile .conference because it assessed the plan from different angles and pin-pointed its legal, technical and political defects and pointed out its good and positive aspects (for summary see Afghan jehad section on Reconstruction).
      International expectation about the UN Secretary General's Plan was# that either it should be accepted or if anyone does not accept, should offer its alternate. -Therefore if the mujaheddin reject it totally or conditionally but do not propose an alternate plan, their stance would be questioned at the international level. As some action had to be taken in this regard, Pakistan advised the mujaheddin to constitute a joint commission so that an alternate plan could be proposed in lieu of the UN plan.
                      THE 28-MEMBER COMMISSION: BOYCOTTS AND DEMANDS
      The 28-member mujaheddin commission held a meeting in the fourth week of June but HIA (Khales) boycotted it and did not send any representative. On the other hand, HWIA- comprised of a number of Iran-based Afghan Shia parties- demanded eight seats in the Commission, whereas other mujaTieddin at first conceded three and later five seats to them and proposed that the representative of the (Shia) Cohlition Council may participate in the commission as an observer. Mawlawi Khales who had already declined to participate in the commission, had also announced that no seat be given to the Irari-based Shia parties' in. this Commission.
                                                11
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          HUlllltfl lltllllU                 VOL.  4   NO-4
      The Commission asked all the parties 2 July to submit their formulae and formed a committee to collect and put in order all the proposals.. The Commission drafted    a plan for the interim' period  6 July, for   the establishment of an
 Islamic government and declared that the Commission has unanimously agreed that:
  (i) Najib and his   party would not be   accommodated   in the interim Islamic
      government.
 (ii) The  mujaheddin  do not consider Najib  and his Watan Party, who are the
                           murderers of the nation, a party to the solution of the Afghan problem and 1 will never attend a meeting in the presence of Najib or members of the
      Watan Party.                                 ,
 (lii)So long as Najib remains in the seat of power at Kabul, the mujaheddin will not agree to ceasefire and instead activate (the jehad throughout the country.
      But despite repeated promises and numerous demands, the Commission .has not been able to announce an alternate plan with regard to the ON plan.
      On the other hand, rejection of the UN plan by important mujaheddin groups and its    acceptance by the . governments of Iran and    Pakistan, who are both
 supporters and hosts of the mujaheddin, created a conceptual gap between the mujaheddin, on the one hand, and Iran and Pakistan on the other. Hence it was decided to hold tripartite conferences to find a way out, of this impasse.
                   TRIPARTITE CONFERENCE: DIFFICULTIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS
      News reports indicate that at first Iran wanted to have a "quadripartite" conference so that,            besides Pakistan and Iran, Sunni mujaheddin would
 participate in it as the third party and Iran-based Shia mujaheddin as the fourth party. This Iranian plan was in fact also endorsed in a news report published by the HWIA in Iran and Prof. Sayyaf has been quoted as indicating that Iran wanted to make it a four-party conference. It was due to this reason that the IIA delegation, led by Prof. Sayyaf, walked out of the Islamabad tripartite iheeting.
      Mawlawi Khales also remarked, prior to the holding of the conference, that there is a contradiction between the word and deed of Iran because, on the one hand, it calls for unity among the mujaheddin and on the other takes the other Shia Afghani groups1 under its umbrella. Tha-t is why he boycotted the conference and did.not send his representative to it.
      The IIA at first sent three representatives' to this conference who later walked out of it, claiming that Iran interferes in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, paving the way for the division of the country, by pressing her demand on according a separate status to the Shia groups.
               •  .              •     '           ‘           ' / j *
      Prof.   Rabbani,' Prof. Mujaddedi, Pir Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammadi
 participated in Islamabad conference as leaders of their parties but HIA
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 199V              HUlHflW JIHflfl                  VOL. 4 NO. 4
 (Hekmatyar) sent its delegation ■ led by a top official of the Party to the Islamabad meeting. HWIA had come from Iran but the (Shia) Coalition Council based in Peshawar was not invited to this conference.
      The second conference of the mujaheddin and Iran*and Pakistan was held 28 August in Tehran. Mawlawi Khales again declined to send his delegation, the IIA> boycotted the conference giving the Same reasons which had induced the party to walk out from the Islamabad conference. HIA (Hekmatyar) declared that so long as its terms and conditions were not accepted, it will not attend the second tripartite conference. The Peshawar-based Coalition Council of Afghan Shias were also invited to attend the Tehran conference and they sent their representative, too, but complained of untoward behavior. Besides the four official parties, representatives of ' the independent parties . (e.g. HEIA of Mansoor, HEIA of Moazin and Da’eha-e-Ittehad-e-Islami of Judge Weqad) also participated in this conference.
      Some of the Afghans residing in Europe and the USA had doubts about these so-called tripartite conference. The ex-King declared that to establish a trilateral organization, for solving the Afghan problem, with two non-Afghan components, would not only be not conducive to the settlement of the problem but would give rise to unseemly comments and ideas- at the national level, as well. Similarly Dr. Hamed, a former deputy Prime Minister, regarded these conferences contrary to the UN plan commenting that the plan did not 'contarn any term for : holding such conferences but insisted on .intra-Afghan efforts, without alien . intervention, for finding a .political solution.
             ■  - ■  "        • ■ ■ a    .. :                      ■ ■, ■
      On the other hand,     even before  HIA   (Hekmatyar) declined to  send its
 delegation to Tehran conference, a commentary about Hekmatyar, published in the official Iranian daily Keyhan, contained such strong-worded, material about the HIA that it created deep reactions in the mujaheddin circles.               /
      Inspite of all these antagonisms and suspicions, the official results of the Islamabad and, Tehran conferences -announced, in the official communiques issued after the conclusion of these moots* reflected the desires of the mujaheddin. Acpording to the communiques, talks with Najib were rejected and the establishment of a free, independent, non-aligned and Islamic Afghanistan was stressed. (See section on Documents). Wrote a foreign correspondent, although the fundamentalists did not attend these conferences, the results obtained wpre consonent with their demands.                                        •
  News reports also indicated that Pakistan insisted that all the subjects related to the Afghan problem should be resolved in a package deal. Earlier, too, Pakistan insisted that the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, negative symmetry, repatriatin of the refugees, questions concer,ning the leadership and the reconstruction process should be accommodated in a comprehensive treaty. Now the UN plan is largely related to the interim period issues. Pakistan also is not much pleased with the situation because of the non-participation    of , the Islamic fundamentalist parties in these
 conferences.                                  -         '.      .            '  ''
      It may also be noted that- during the one month interval between these two
                                               13
                                                                                    VOL. 4 NO.4
 conferences, a coup took place in the USSR causing dramatic developments.
                              EFFECTS OF THE ABORTIVE USSR COUP
      The coup staged in the Soviet Union by the conservative and hardline communists 19 August, caused irtuch concern and anxiety throughout the world about the state of affairs in the Soviet Union and its repercussions on issues such as the Afghan problem. Mawlawi Khales was the first Afghan leader to welcome this coup and said that it will drive a wedge between the US and the USSR and predicted that the USA would resume aid to the mujaheddin. Prof. Sayyaf also expressed similar reaction but, after the failure of the coup,, said that statements quoted from his remarks, were baseless.
      On the other hand. Prof. Mujaddedi expressed concern at the coup. Ayatullah Mohseni lauded Gorbachev's courage. But all the leaders declared that the Afghans should continue their jehad till victory.   <
      Subsequent, to the failure of. the coup and the acceleration of anti-commun-nist struggle in Russia, Moscow agreed that alongwith the. USA, it will stop providing arms to Afghanistan, henceforth^.
                           NEGATIVE SYMMETRY: tHE ENDURANCE TEST
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
      Discussions between the Presidents of Iran and Pakistan, the UN Secretary General and the mujaheddin leaders were in progress in Iran, when the USA Secretary of State and the USSR Foreign Minister announced their agreement on a negative symmetry with effect from January, 1992. It may be pointed out that till the failure of the coup in Moscow, the Soviet leaders did not’ agree to such a deal and regarded their military aid to the Kabul regime, legal and justified.
      The Afghan mujaheddin leaders and even Najib lauded the US-USSR accord. Some jehad leaders added that supply of American arms to them had already been stopped and therefore such a declaration was irrelevant as far as the mujaheddin were concerned and, furthermore, the Afghans said that originally they started their jehad with empty hands anyway, and they would continue it all the same,
                                        THE OIC GATHERING
      Before the session of OIC Foreign Ministers in Turkey, the satanic networks of the Kabul regime spread the rumours that, the OIC had.sent invitations to both the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime to take part in the conference, but with the arrival of an OIC representative to Pakistan these rumours were rejected. The OIC official pointed out that the Islamic body only recognizes the mujqheddin and has invited them only. Finally, a; mujaheddin delegation participated in the conference,and the conference, too, supported and endorsed the inalianable right of the Afghan people to decide their future.
   ^ Besides, in the light of the decision taken at the 'Tehran conference, the mujaheddin sent their delegation to the UN to meet the world delegates and to appirise them of their demands.
                                                    14
July’-September, 1991
VOL. 4 no.4
                             FACE-TO-FACE TALKS WITH THE RUSSIANS
            A mujaheddin delegation led by Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of <•' the  HEIA (Mohamma’di). met with a    Soviet; delegation headed by   a senior USSR
       official 12 August in Islamabad. The Afghan delegation included representatives of HIA (Hekmatyar), HIA (Mohseni), JIA, NLFA and NIFA. During the Soviet- Afghan b discussions, the mujaheddin adopted, a joint stand and argued unitedly. In response to this solid and united stance, the Soviet delegation was compelled to condemn Soviet past policies in Afghanistan and to apologize to the mujaheddin.
            The mujaheddin decided to continue their contacts with the Soviet Union .which is the actual party in the crisis. It is expected that a delegation of the Afghan mujaheddin would visit Moscow at the official invitation of the USSR.
            The     process of face-to-face   Afghan-Soviet contacts were   given further
       push by      two Afghan mujaheddin     friends, Pakistan and Saudi    Arabia, when
       immediately after the UN Secretary General's announcment that Najib was ready to step down, Prince Turki Al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia,and Prime Minister Muhammad Nawaz Sharif of ’Pakistan called an extra-ordinary meeting of the Peshawar based mujaheddin to urge, thenu to send a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow early in November, for talks with the Soviet government on expediting the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
            Earlier, in New  York President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi had      had a lengthy
       meeting with Soviet'Foreign Minister in which the Soviet side also had offered the stepping down of Najib for a mujaheddin agreement to cease fire. According to press reports, the Soviet Foreign Minister had told Mujaddedi that the mujaheddin should in return agree for the inclusion of Khaliqyar as the Prime Minister since, according to the Russians, he was not a PDPA member and was serving presently as the Prime Minister of the Kabul regirne as ' an independent personality. But, although Mujaddedi told the press on his return to Islamabad that according to his reports, Khaliqyar was a Muslim and not quite objectioriable, at least to mujaheddin, leaders, Rabbani and Hekmatyar, overtly rejected the idea of dealing even with Khaliqyar as he too was a feather of the same bird.
            But the UN Secretary General's announcement in his annual report on Afghanistan that Najib was ready *to stepdown to accelerate the settlement of the Afghanistan issue was indeed a new dimention in the.issue and many observers expected that the mujaheddin should advantage of this new situation.
         . The UN Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar in his annual report released 22 October, said that the situation of Afghanistan had reached a "political stage", but that a "unique opportunity" existed to resolve the question. He said:
  '         "I have been given assurances that some of the .controversial personalities
       concerned would not insist on their personal participation, either irv the intra-Afghan dialogue or-in some transition mechanism."                 ”  (
  * ■                       C:      '
15
        julV-september, 1991                 -HfGllflH’JtllllB                    vol.  4 no.4
              The UN Secretary General report added:       "The  (controversial personalities)
        would be willing to relinquish their posts, should certain questions pertaining to participation in the Intra-Afghan dialogue and the transition mechanism be resolved,".
              A report from New York said, it is understood that President Najibullah j wants some of his- party members represented in the proposed,Afghan gathering that would work out a transition mechanism. The UN Chief also emphasized that the mechanism should be neutral in character.
              Noting that there were strong feelings against the participation of certain *■ personalities, the Secretary General said he was confident that all concerned could be satisfied. "A dialogue can be organised in various manners, direct or indirect, with the participation of Afghans - Who would be acceptable to all sides" he said.
              "Nevertheless, if a political settlement is to be brought about there is no 'alternative to such a dialogue”.                                             /
              But despite what seemed to be a golden opportunity, press reports spoke of mujaheddin bickering over the issue of who should lead the mujaheddin delegation for talks to the Sovietv Union,. Noting the mujaheddin intransigence over such trivial issues, one is perhaps right to agree with President . Mujaddedi when he said in.answer to a question to a radio interviewer that in his opinion the only outstanding difference between the Peshawair-based leaders was that each one of them wanted to be the King.

JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991 ______AfGHflH JIHAD        ___ VOL.4 NO.4
        MAJOR DOCUMENTS
£ TRIPARTITE ISLAMABAD CONFERENCE ON AFGHANISTAN
      ISSUES STATEMENT                                   19
                                       i
9      TRIPARTITE TEHRAN CONFERENCE ON AFGHANISTAN
      ISSUES STATEMENT                                    20
®     AFGHAN REACTION TO MOVES AIMED AT POLITICAL
      SOLUTION OF AFGHAN ISSUE '                          22
9     JOINT US-USSR STATEMENT ON BANNING ARMS TO
      AFGHANS                                             25
0     JIA-HIA STATEMENT ON COOPERATION                    27
4)    ISLAMIC MOVEMENT ISSUES STATEMENT CURRENT AFGHAN
      PROBLEMS                                            27
0     OIC FOREIGN MINISTER'S DECLARATION ON AFGHANISTAN
                                                                      29
JIA SUPERVISORY COUNCIL ISSUES GUIDELINES
SOCIETY FOR NATIONAL SALVATION IN KABUL ISSUES ANNUAL REPORT
AYATULLAH MOHSENI'S LETTER TO YELTSIN
CHARTER OF KABUL PROVINCE COMMANDER'S COUNCIL
 .18
32
35
54
56
  I
           EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the statement issued at the conclusion of tripartite conference between the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran held in Islamabad.
         The Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran, His Excellency Dr, Ali Akbar Velayati and the Secrtary General Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, His Excellency Mr. Akram Zaki, held a joint tripartite meeting in Islamabad with the leaders of the Pakistan and Iran based Afghan Mujaheddin parties, on 29 and 30 July, 1991.
         The joint meeting hailed the glorious jehad of the valiant Afghan people against foreign occupation, their great sacrifices including more than one and half million martyred and the resolute support tq the'cause of the jehad by the Islamic Nations and the international community. The leaders qf the Afghan mujaheddin parties expressed deep appreciation and gratitude for the support of the jehad and for the generous hospitality extended to more than five million Afghan refugees by Iran and Pakistan on their soils.
         The meeting emphasized the pursuit of a just peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan problem that restores the Islamic identity and the independent, sovereign and non-aligned character of, Afghanistan. The Afghan people must be able to choose their own form of government without outside intervention or pressure. Conditions should be1 created for the voluntary return of the Afghan refugee? to their homes in safety and honor. Such a settlement alone will bring peace to Afghanistan and strengthen security and stability of the entire region, necessary for progress and development of the brotherly peoples of the three countries.                                  •
         The meeting welcomed the growing cooperation between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a just peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan problem, consistent with the objectives of the Afghan jehad and aspirations of the Afghan people. The Islamic Republic of Iran and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan agreed to make joint efforts to mobilize international support for the cause of peace and for a just solution of the Afghanistan problem. The meeting also emphasized the special importance of the role that the Islamic countries have in achieving these objectives.
         The meeting emphasized the need for unity among all Islamic and patriotic Afghan forces who supported the Afghan jehad, to promote peace and to work for a just solution of the Afghanistan problem.
                                             19 • ■
JIJLY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          MANJllldfl                   VOL.  4 NO.4
    The meeting noted with appreciation the, efforts of the United Nations Secretary General for the solution of the Afghanistan problem. While emphasizing the observance of the Islamic principles, the meeting recognized positive elements in the five-point statement by the United Nations Secretary General. The statement could serve as a possible basis for a settlement for the Afghanistan prbblem. Therefore, the statement could be further studied and, after any necessary clarifications, could be considered for a comprehensive solution acceptable  to the people * of                       Afghanistan.   Any solution for the
 Afghanistan problem should lead to the replacement of the present illegal government in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic government aceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
    In the spirit    of the noble  jehad                        and deeply conscious of the great
 sacrifices rendered by the valiant Afghan people and                     the immense tragedy and
 hardship suffered by them, the leaders of the Afghan Mujaheddin parties reaffirmed their resolve to continue efforts for peace and for a just splution of Afghanistan ,pfoblem. They reaffirmed their commitment to respect for life and property of a^l Afghans and to the reconstruction of their homeland ravaged by foreign Occupation   and conflict. They envisaged future Afghanistan to be
 Islamic, norialigned, an abode of peace and an important contributor to tranquility and stability of the region, committed to a policy of mutual friendship and cooperation with its neighbours.
  Tripartite Statement After Conference in Tehran on Afghanistan Issue
 EDITOR'S NCTEz The following is the text of the Joint Declaration issued at the concluding session of the two-day tripartite conference on Afghanistan held in Tehran 28-29 August• 1991.
       By tha grace of God, the second round of the tripartite meeting was held in Tehran ort 2^-29 August 1991, with the participation of H. E. Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran, H.E.' Akram Zaki, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of.the Islamic •Republic of Pakistan^and the leaders of Afghan Mujaheddin parties basediin Iran and Pakistan', with the purpose of advancing the objective of a just and peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan problem, set out in the joint declaration of July 30, i991 issued in Islamabad.
                                          20
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991           WfllllM iKillll                    VOL. A  NO.4
      In an atmosphere of trust and confidence, the meeting voiced its support for the just struggle of the people of Afghanistan and appreciated the continued cooperation of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran for the settlement of the Afghanistan problem consistent with the objectives of the Afghan jehad and the aspirations of the Afghan people.
    , The meeting once again emphasised the need for restoration of the Islamic identity and the independent, sovereign and nonraligned character of Afghanistan. The people of Afghanistan should be able to determine their destiny without any foreign pressure or intervention.                 i
      The Afghan mujaheddin leaders welcomed efforts made by Pakistan and Iran to stimulate international support for the cause of peace and a just solution of the Afghanistan problem and urged for the continuation qf these efforts.        '
      The meeting expressed satisfaction at the international support, especially that accorded by the Organization of the Islamic Conference and thfe' representative of the UN Secretary-General, to the decisions adopted by the first round of tripartite meeting of Islamabad. It further expressed the hope that the international community will extend full support and cooperation , to this trilateral effort in pursuit of a just and peaceful, settlement.
      The meeting, bearing in mind the assessment of the Islamabad meeting of the positive elements in UN Secretary-General’s five-point statement, reaffirmed the previously adopted position on this matter and recommended that a delegation composed of Afghan^ mujaheddin parties based in Iran and Pakistan meet the UN Secretary General in order to inform him of their views and hold»further talks on the statement. The meeting also’ decided to send such a delegation to the forthcoming UN General Assembly session in New York and the OIC Summit in Dakar.
      An Ad Hoc Committee of the second'round of the tripartite meeting «in Tehran was appointed to make all necessary preparations for the third round of the tripartite meeting in Islamabad. For such preparations, including the agenda, and to ensure success and progress at the next round in Islamabad, the Ad Hoc Committee will refceive views and suggestions.                                , ,
      The meeting paid careful attention to current developments in the Soviet Union and expressed the hope that these developments would contribute to the speedy settlement of the Afghanistan problem. The Afghan mujaheddin parties are ready to initiate a substantive dialogue with Moscow.
      The meeting reiterated that any solution for the Afghanistan problem should lead to the replacement of the present illegal regime in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic ’government, acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.                                                            ,
      The meeting emphasized that the will of the people of Afghanistan alone can determine the future of that country.
      The meeting condemned the current bombardment of the residential areas and killing of the innocent people of Afghanistan by Kabul regime. The Afghan
                                               21
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 mujaheddin parties expressed their firm determination aimed at the continuation of jehad and the realization of their Islamic aspirations consistent with the intensification of their political efforts.
     The meeting welcomed the growing unity amo.hg all Islamic and patriotic forces who supported the Afghan jehad and emphasized the need for sustaining and accelerating this trend.
     The meeting reiterated its resolve to work for peace and .just solution of the Afghanistan problem that will enable the people of the three brotherly countries, Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan to devote their energies for the peace and progress of the entire region.                               ‘
           ■ . ' • • * ' '
     The delegations of Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin expressed.thanks and
 appreciation to Iranian brothers for the warm hospitality accorded . to them
 during the second round. The meeting decided to hold the third round of
 tripartite meeting in Islamabad.
 AFGHAN REACTION TO EFFORTS TO SOLVE AFGHAN ISSUE
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are Afghan reactions to international moves aimed at finding diplomatic solution to the Afghanistan issue.
n
es
       The political solution of the Afghanistan issue will be acceptable when the representatives of jehad organizations participate in taking a decision in regard t° this issue and the following points are heeded:
        - -      ’   ,Y      ‘   '    -  ■ .         ‘
  1.   The martyrdom of more than 1.5 million and the handicapping of more than half-a^-million Muslims are not rendered as vain and futile.
  2.   The damages emanating from the armed Russian aggression of Afghanistan are compensated in accordance with the UN law and in conformity with the already accepted international norms.
  3.   An interim government is formed from the Muslim, competent, pious elements and personalities enjoying the confidence of the absolute majority of the Muslim people of Afghanistan. This government should pave the way for the Islamization of all political, administrative and social affairs of future Afghanistan and the complete irradication of the mental and material
                                             22
•fc
VOL. 4 NO.4
     remnants of communism.
 4.  The future , Islamic government of Afghanistan after the completion of the term o,f office of the .interim government, should be adjusted taking in view the territorial integrity, complete independence and non-alignment .and positive neutrality of Afghanistan in accordance with the norms of the Holy, Shariat of Is-lam and in it all established and obvious Islamic norms are ' heeded and it should not be a government in which the party in power introduces itself as Islamic and term its political opponents as non-Islamic.
 5.  Outside intervention in Afghanistan affairs should come to an end speedily.
 6.  Different manifestations of tribal, linguistic and regional discrimination should be halted and in, considering the ability of the people, according to the. command of Almighty God which says "indeed the one who is God-fearing is the closest to Allah", piety should be taken into consideration.
 B.      Hezb, Jamiat, Ittehad
    • The communique says, "the enemies of Islam are trying to undo the aims of jehad". In the cpmmunique, issued in Arabic, it is added that as a result of recent mujaheddin victories in Khost, Takhar and Kunduz, the enemies of Islam found out that the mujaheddin are not going to relinquish the jehad"..
      The communique says, talks • have been undertaken for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue aimed at engaging the mujaheddin.   >
      The communique adds, the mujaheddin are not going to forget communist crimes in Afghanistan and they know the enemies of Islam are not bothered about the shedding of Muslims blood and in order to achieve a number of specific objectives, they have brought about the issue of political solution so as to safequard their own interests.
      The enemies of Islam, are creating difficulties for the success of the jehad. However, the mujaheddin are proclaiming to the entire Muslim community and the world that despite these difficulties they will continue their jehad. We will strongly resist the plans hatched by the enemies of Islam and do not accept hegemony in our jehad since the Afghans are a free people and they think freely and will not accept any solution not supported by the mujaheddin.
      The future Islamic government will not accept any role for communists, pro-Westerners, atheists and anyone who would try to administer the affairs of the government through constitution as well as for the apostates.
      The communique has rejected the formation of coalition ■ and neutral government.
      The communique adds,any side which wants to solve the Afghanistan issue
                                      23
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991    HlllllHHlllllllU       VOL. 4 NO.4
 through- }ust and amicable means should remejnoer that the Kabul regime snouid give up itself without conditions to the mujaheddin. v
    The communique has emphasized that tne formation of the future, government of Afghanistan should be the prerogative of the mujahedin.
 C.    Fc^ryah Commanders
    We, commanders of the Faryab province are hereby spelling our vis-ai-vis the current affairs taking place against the establishment Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    Afghanistan is the country of mujaheddin and it is essential that a government is formed in it in accordance with the wishes and will of the mujaheddin. It is clear to all that the mujaheddin will not be satisfied without the formation of an Islamic government. If they were content with a non-Islamic government, they would not have started their jehad and struggle against the satanic and non-Islamic'government and would not have rendered towards this end 1.5 million sacrifices and would not have destroyed and burned away their houses by the atheists and communists and would not, have suffered the hot and cold of the migration. On this basis, we will not form a government called neutral and non-Islamic, and we are opposed to any non-Jslamic organization and compromise.
    If the jehad leaders and other people agree to the formation of such a government we will consider this agreement a treason and a cruelty towards the martyrs of jehad and will consider it as a historical shame for those who join such an agreement. And we are adopting this clear resolution that until the establishment of an Islamic order we will continue our jehad because such a stand is based on our own aspirations and of our martyrs and in this path we rely on Almighty God and seek help from Him because He is the one who helps best c^nd provides the real means.
D.   Ma idan-WardakCommanders
    The shoora is comprised of scholars,, mujaheddin and commanders of the Maidan-Wardak Province. The UN plan for the political solution of Afghanistan fails to fulfill the wishes and aspirations of the Muslim nation and the mujaheddin of Afghanistan and, therefore, it is not acceptable to us and we are overtly rejecting it.                <                 f
    The jehad, sacrifices and efforts of the people of Afghanistan have been only for the realization and establishment of an Islamic system.
    We are completely rejecting this plan or any other plan which may not conform with the aspirations of the mujaheddin of Afghanistan. This plan not, only adds over our difficulties but also prolongs the life of the puppet Najib government. We are expressing our resolute opposition to any holding of talks with the Najib regime for procuring peace.
    Those who are described by the West as "neutrals", in our view are puppets of
 views of an
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
the hireling fegime and will be unable to bring peace in Afghanistan. Therefore, those individuals who are' supporting foreign imposed plans cannot represent the Wardak mujaheddin and will bear the future responsibility.
E.                 BadakhshanCommanders
   The infidels of the East, and West have now found out that the fall of the hireling and puppet Russian regime in Afghanistan is imminent' under prevailing sensitive and decisive conditions and truly they have found out that, with the passing of each day, their trenches are being ruined by the powerful mujaheddin of Islam. Therefore, all the infidels of the East and West, despite their own disagreements and disputes, have joined hands to stop the success of this dynamic jehad and try to keep in power the criminals and murderers of more than one million Muslims. Taking in view this fact, the jehad fronts of Badakhshan province will continue • their Islamic jehad relying on Almighty God until the infidel and atheist government in Kabul is toppled and replaced by a government of God and they consider any collusion at the international level for solving the Afghanistan issue as a calculated plan hatched by the Kabul puppet regime and Kremlin politicians. The mujaheddin will, in no way, allow the aliens to make deals in regard to the destiny of this oppressed nation. Also we warn those who have placed themselves in the mujaheddin ranks but talk in favor of the Najib government and his Western and Eastern masters, not to sacrifice our jehadic prestige and trust by appeasing the enemies of Islam and they should not record such a disgrace in the brilliant history of our nation. They should be rest assured that the responsibility for this grave crime will.rest upon them.
US - Soviet Statement on A rms Ban To A fghan Warring Parties
        EDITOR9SNOTE: The following are the texts of the US-Soviet joint statement on Afghanistan and the State Department’s commentary on the statement.
      The United States and the USSR, consistent with the UN General; Assembly
 resplutions adopted at the 43rd, 44th and 45th sessions and with their
 commitment to the Geneva accords on Afghanistan, recognize the fundamental right
 of the Afghan people to determine., their own destiny free from outside
 interference. In this regard, they support the statement of the UN Secretary
 General dated May 21, 1991, and reaffirm the need for a political settlement in.
 Afghanistan that ensures an independent and non-aligned Afghanistan at peace
 with its neighbours and that establishes a new, broad-based government through
 an electoral process that respects Afghan political and Islamic traditions. The
                    «         ' ■    v.                     ..
 United States and the USSR agree that a transition period is required to reach
 these goals.                   ,                              ‘
                                                      25
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         AWNJIHAD                   VOL.  A NO.4
      To this end, they cail for and pledge to support a democratic and free electoral process that is not subject to manipulation or interference by anyone. The results of 'the electoral process must be respected and fully implemented by all. They request the United Nations, with the support of concerned governments, including those of Islamic countries, to work with the Afghans to convene a credible and impartial, transition mechanism . whose functions would include, directing and managing a credible electoral process fully consistent with these principles. This transition mechanism, working closely with the UN and others as necessary, would have independent authority with all powers required to prepare for, conduct, and implement the results of this electoral process'leading to the establishment of a new government that will.have the broad support of the Afghan people. The details of these and other powers and functions would be decided through an intra-Afghan dialogue.
      The United States and the USSR agree that a cessation of hostilities is essential for the peaceful conduct of elections during the transition, period and for a lasting political settlement. To facilitate this cessation, they agree to discontinue their weapons deliveries to all Afghan sides. They also agree that a cease-fire and a cutoff of weapons deliveries from all other sources should follow this step. They agree further.to work toward withdrawal of major weapons systems from Afghanistan.
      The United States and the USSR also reiterate their commitment to support an   international humanitarian , assistance effort to promote          the prompt
 repatriation of refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan.           ■ .
                       i                ‘         '           '
      To these ends, they reaffirm their willingness to promote in every way possible the efforts of the UN Secretary General to contribute in practical ways to the early settlement of this conflict.
                              THE US STATEMENT
      Today# the USSR and the United States issued a          joint statement on
 Afghanistan specifying agreed approaches of the sides to a political settlement in that country along the lines, of the UN Secretary General's statement of May 21, 1991.                                     1
      Settlement of the issue, of "Negative Symmetry” that is, discontinuation of Soviet and US arms supplies to the conflicting Afghan sides, is one of. the crucial elements(Of this agreement. The USSR and the United States agreed to cut off  such supplies beginning January 1,   1992. They further  agreed that .neither
 the USSR nor the   US will intensify arms supplies to any     Afghan  side in the
 interim. It is also hoped that during the examining time the issue of the Soviet POWs will be settled. The United. States pledges its best efforts to resolve this important humanitarian question.
      It is also expected that other countries involved in the Afghan conflict should also follow the USSR and the United States in limiting their assistance to Afghanistan to humanitarian assistance only.
      We expect that our joint steps will facilitate launching an intra-Afghan negotiating process and should lead to a pause followed by a complete cessation of military operations.
                                             26
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
Statement
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a communique issued by the HIA & JIA for accelerating coordination among the key organizations in jehad affairs and eliminating misunderstanding as well as seeking ways for unity among the mujaheddin. The text has been published in the Shahadat newspaper of 14 July, 1991:
                         "IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL.
      HIA and JIA have been endeavoring for further coordination of jehad affairs, elemination of misunderstanding and seeking ways for unity among the mujaheddin so that to pave the way for joint efforts among jehad forces. Earlier, too; joint efforts have been exerted for achieving this grand and noble objective between these two organizations and agreements were also'signed in this regard. Now, once more, the Joint Commission has been assigned to seek effective and practical ways for the implementation of previous agreements.
      Our efforts are only aimed at finding unity among all jehad forces and they are supportive of the activities undertaken by similar commitments undertaken among all organizations.
      We strongly believe that our sincere and committed mujaheddin will evercome all internal problems and will endeavor for the establishment of an Islamic government in a united\rank.
Statement on Afghan Issue
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a statement issued 30 July, 1991, by the Islamic Movement of Afghanistan (Tahreek-e-Islami Afghanistan) on the policies of this movetnent’.
      With the formation of the communist regime in Afghanistan, our mujahed nation was placed at a historical trial. On the•one side there was the, Russian puppet regime in Afghanistan, which was well equipped from material viewpoint
27
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991               MIAN JIIIIW                    VOL. 4 NO.4
 and was not only backed by Moscow but by the entire Warsa Pact, and on the other side was the young Islamic Movement backed by a poor nation suffering of the dark ruling of previous corrupt regimes. But the unfaltering determination and the ongoing jehad of the Afghan people managed to change the course of events to the extent to deprive the atheist regime of the chance to exist were it not for the support of the Russian armed forces.
      But the spirit of the Islamic resistance rose higher when the Kremlin took practical measures, with all the embarrassment involved, and recompensed its blunder by withdrawing its defeated troops from Afghanistan.
      The Afghan resistance, particularly after the Russian troops withdrawal, has been at a disadvantage, namely that it lacks organization and a unified leadership.
      When differences were observed in the opinions and stances of the various mujahedding groups regarding the establishment of a government, the committed members of Tahreek-e-Islami (Islamic Movement), due .to their Islamic obligation, endeavored to bring about a suitable change in the current affairs and exert all out efforts so that, by setting up a unified leadership, safeguard the honors and sacrifices of the nation and to see to it that the political organizations of the mujaheddin are united regarding the future.
      Repeated meetings were held in this respect with mujaheddin leaders during the course of which new plans and proposals were submitted. Not only this, but leaders of world Islamic Movements were also contacted. Unfortunately, some mujaheddin organizations did not quite agree with our plans and thus the deadlock prevailed.
      On the other hand, wide-ranging programs are being hatched both at national ,and international levels and extensive efforts made to ignore the real issues at stake and usurp the fruits of the Afghan jehad. And due to the want of a single plan from the mujaheddin side, things have come to a stage that alien forces are daring to plan the future political framework of Afghanistan based only on their own interests. Ironically, some narrow-sighted Muslims are actually paving the way for accepting a neutral government, and all this happens at a time when the Muslim Afghan mujaheddin are seriously opposing such plans.
      Now that the Afghan jehad has reached a decisive stage but with no clear-cut plan oh the part of the mujaheddin, the Islamic Movement, taking into consideration its Islamic responsibilities and in pursuit of its declaration of 10 January, 1991, once again declares to the mujahed nation and Muslims all over the world that:
 1.   We condemn all direct and indirect contact with the atheist Kabul regime,
 2.   The UN five-point plan, or any other plan for that matter, which will not
      guarantee the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, will
      not be accepted by us.
 3.   Participation of the nation's murderers in determining the destiny of our
                                               28
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991             PfflllllHlliHMl                  VOL.  4 NO.4
      people or in the election to be held in the future is rejected as will be considered a major disloyalty to a nation which has undergone many sufferings.
 4.   We strongly reject the formation of a neutral or a coalition government with the communists or the atheist Kabul regime.
 5.   We urge Pakistan, Iran and other Muslim nations to stand by our mujahed
      nation at this critical moment             and to refrain from siding with
      international intrigues or from interfering in our internal affairs.
 6.   We urge the OlC to express its solidarity for the determination of our destiny and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan as it has done so in the past.
 7.   We consider urgent and necessary the establishment of a glorious,
   - high-powered Islamic Council (Shoora), representing our mujahed nation, for solving the Afghanistan issue and guaranteeing an Islamic order in the future.
 8.   We Vill continue our jehad until an Islamic government is set up in our beloved country.
 9.   We once again urgently urge our mujaheddin leaders to close their ranks and thus foil any internal.or external plots and intrigues.
      In an effort to rally the national support as well as the support of responsible parties', for the foregoing items and for highlighting a true line of action for the jehad, we sincerely request the mujaheddin, ulama, valorous and proud commanders, intellectuals and the entire pious nation in the name of Afghanistan's liberation and the maintenance of an Islamic order, to assist us wholeheartedly in evolving unity of the nation and establishing the Islamic Council.
OlC Resolution on A fghanistan

 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the OIC foreign Ministers in 1991.
                                                                the text of a resolution issued by their meeting in Turkey 4-8 Augustt
I
      ^he Twentieth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers held in Istanbul, Republic of Turkey, from 4-8 August, 1991.
      Proceeding from the principles and objectives of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and resolutions of the Islamic Conference which emphasize the common goals and destiny of the peoples of the Islamic Ummah;
                                             29
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991               WUljlflHJtllflfl___               VOL. 4 NO-4
      Affirming the riglit of all peoples to decide the form of government they wish to have and to choose their own political, economic and social, systems, free from all forms of foreign intervention, coercion or pressure;
                           %
      Recalling the principled stand adopted by the Islamic Conference in its resolutions on Afghanistan since January 1980;
      Taking into account also the resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly at the Sixth Emergency Special Session and its subsequent regular sessions as well as the decisions adopted by the various Summits and Ministerial Conferences of the Non-Aligned Countries against foreign military intervention in Afghanistan;
      Recalling also the resolutions adopted by consensus by the 43rd, 44th and 45th regular sessions of the United Nations General Assembly;
      Desirous of restoring the political independence and sovereignty of Afghanistan, its Islamic identity and its non-aligned character;
      Concerned over, the fact that serious impediments still stand in the way of the Muslim people of Afghanistan to exercise freely their right to determine their political future;
      Recalling its decision, adopted by the 18th Session of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, to invite the Representative of the Afghan mujaheddin to occupy the seat of Afghanistan in the Organization of the Islamic Conference;
      Deeply conscious of the need for a comprehensive political settlement of the grave situation in Afghanistan;
      Fully aware of the immense burden borne by the Islamic Republic of ' Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a result of the asylum provided by them to. millions of Afghan refugees, driven away from their homeland, and who are still unable to return because of the disturbed conditions;
 1.   Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary General of the OIC.
 2.   Commends the heroic struggle of the people of Afghanistan for the
      liberation of their homeland and recognizes and supports the role of the Afghan mujaheddin for the restoration of the independent, non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan.                                   '
 3.   Calls for a comprehensive political settlement so that conditions of peace and stability are created in Afghanistan.
 4.   Recognizes that the formation of a broad-based government, is essential for the restoration of peace and for enabling the people of Afghanistan to exercise their right to choose their own political, economic and social system free from outside intervention.
                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I
JULV-SEPTEMBER, 1991___________flfflllflHJIHIlB           .             VOL. 4 NO.4
5.    Calls for the creation of the necessary conditions of peace and normalcy that would enable the Afghan refugees to return voluntarily to their homeland in safety and honor,
6.    Supports the efforts of the Afghan mujaheddin to establish a broad-based government in Afghanistan,
7.    Notes with appreciation the efforts of the UN Secretary General, including his latest initiative of May 21 1991, to promote a comprehensive political settlement, which also envisages a role for other international organisations including the OIC.
8.    Takes___note with satisfaction of the positive declaration unanimously
      adopted by the tripartite meeting held on 29-30 July in Islamabad.
9.    Requests__the Secretary General of the OIC to continue to coordinate his
      efforts with the UN Secretary General for promoting a political settlement in Afghanistan and recommends that the OIC should have an active role in the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
10.   Decides to continue generous humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and to work for their repatriation and- rehabilitation in Afghanistan in cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
11. Renews its calls to all states as well as national and international
     ------.  .T;
     organizations to exend assistance to alleviate the suffering of Afghan refugees;
12.  Approves the recommendations made by the OIC Secretary General on the basis of the IDB study on reconstruction in Afghanistan, and appeals to all Member States to extend financial and moral s.upport for the implementation of these recommendations.
13.  Requests the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Conference to keep Member States informed of progress towards the implementation of the present resolution and submit to the Sixth Islamic Summit Conference and the Twenty-first Session of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers a report on the situation in Afghanistan.
14.  Decides to consider the issue at the Twenty-first Session of the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers and recommends its consideration at the Dakar Islamic summit.
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         flfCIIHMJEHAO'             VOL- 4 NO.4
Issuse Policy Statement
 EDITOR*S NOTE: Detailed below is the text of the resolution passed in the Sixth session of the Supervisory Council of JIA for the purpose of regulating internal affairs• waging and intensification of the war as well as discussion on the prevailing situation by the sector commanders of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan belonging to 13 provinces• It, was published in the 22 Way* 1991» issue of the Mujahed newspaper•
IN THE NAME OF ALLAH* THE MOST GRACIOUS AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
      Now that more than. 13 years of the armed resistance of our people have elapsed* the jehad is persistently progressing towards its main goal i.e. the establishment of an Islamic government. The withdrawal of the Russian troops* has been recorded in history as the greatest victory of our crusading nation. Its valuable achievement at the national level is reinforcing the faith of the people in final victory and at the international level, the disgraceful defeat of the Russian imperialism, the collapse of political system of the Eastern bloc countries and freedom of the oppressed nations groaning under the yoke of Red colonialism. In fact the brave Afghan nation has been the torch-bearer of jehad and the freedom of the oppressed humanity by dint of their honesty, faithfulness, perseverance arid courageous jehad.
     At present we have reached at a delicate stage of our struggles and our armed jehad against the illegitimate' rule of the Kabul, regime is continuing in full force. The colonial rulers of Moscow are propping up the decadent Kabul regime by giving financial and military aid to its quisling leaders. On the other hand the puppet regime stubbornly continues to fuel the flames of war by aerial bombings, long-range rockets and artillery fire on the defenseiess people and deploying the treacherous mercenary militia as its iron fist. Changing the position of its pawns, the so-called delinking of government departments from the ruling party affiliations, renaming the Khalq Party, creation of a fraudulent parliamentarian system, repetition of the demagogic slogans in favor of peace and against war, declaration of general amnesty, indulging in negative propaganda and scores of other mischievous tactics were some of the methods used by the hireling Kabul regime to perpetuate its rule.
     But none of these satanic trickeries could disguise its anti-Islamic .and anti-people identity or put dents in the iron will of our people as regards continuance of jehad till the collapse of the quisling regime.
     The puppet Kabul regime has lost vast areas,including centers of several
32
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             HIUllHIlJlllllU                 VOL-  4 NO.4
 provinces, subsequent to the exit of the Russian troops. The discipline and morale of the armed forces has touched the lowest ebb and considerable segments of its forces have been eliminated as a result of confrontation with the mujaheddin, in fightings and penetrations by the mujaheddin. The contradictions among the ruling factions, intellectual or political groupings and ethnical differences have brought them to the edge of the precipice and besides, they are faced with tremendous social and economic crises. Continuation of war, state of indecision, corruption, famine conditions and sky-rocketing of the. vital consumer goods prices has placed the~regime in a passive and defensive posture and has deprived it of the initiative potential at all the levels. People's hatred against the regime has turned into white heat and inhabitants of all the cities, particularly the city of Kabul are being mobilized to show their adverse reactions.
      Absence of united strategy, non-coordination among the ranks of mujaheddin, limited administrative experience to control the vast liberated areas, multiplicity of. groups, long distances between the main resistance centers and paucity of financial and military resources, have been the impediments obstructing the broad offensive plans of the mujaheddin for liberating the main cities simultaneous' with the exit of the Russian troops. It required adequate time and serious efforts to take decisive steps in this regard by removing the shortcomings and making necessary preparations.
      Understanding among the parties for establishing a united political and administrative cell as well as holding sessions of regional commanders' councils and liberation of some of the regions and provinces of the country could be
 considered as significant victories of the mujaheddin. Formation of Commanders' Shooras is a prominent achievement which can demolish regional and ethnic boundaries, opening the road to unity and achievement of military and political goals by the mujaheddin.
      In view of the fact that at this stage of jehad an urgent need existed for unity, internal coordination        for   .creating a proper atmosphere for
 'intensifying the struggle and ensuring public security, the sixth session of the Supervisory Council of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan was held to thoroughly consider and deliberate upon the prevailing conditions and to offer suggestions and views for the logical and methodical performance of the mujaheddin. Commanders and representatives of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan from the war-fronts of 13 provinces held a meeting and unanimously agreed on the following points:
  1.  The JIA Supervisory Council demands Afghanistan's independence, territorial integrity, national unity and non-alignment and can never tolerate disintegration and Balkanization of the homeland and believes that the Islamic system protects the rights of all the nationalities and followers of different religions in the country.
  2.  The JIA Supervisory Council,'as one of the most prominent jehad institutions inside the country^is in favor of the intensification of the armed jehad till the downfall of the illegitimate regime in Kabul. In case reaching the cherished goal of the nation, which is the right of self-determination and
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         flffillflHJM               VOL. '4 NO.4
     the establishment of an Islamic government, be possible through peaceful means, the JIA would not consider it out of question.
 3.  The JIA Supervisory Council, keeping in view the prevailing conditions of the country, feels a dire need for internal organization in order to develop a healthy administrative system. Hence all the members present in the meeting decided upon the adoption of the bill to organize and streamline the Supervisory Council as its official convention.
 4.  The JIA  Supervisory Council        . welcomed the formation of a Council of
     Commanders and considered it an effective step for closipg the ranks, coordinating battle operations and attaining the Islamic aims of the mujaheddin and requested the prominent jehad commanders throughout the country to join this common jehad platform.
 5.  The JIA  Supervisory  Council       calls for the enforcement of the laws of
     Shariat and public law and order in the liberated areas and calls upon all the jehad commanders to' try to enforce the Shariat Laws and to protect the assets and properties of the people and ensure general security as well as take steps to protect the public utility buildings in the liberated areas. Moreover, they ought to behave in a humanitarian and Islamic manner towards all the POWs.
 6.  The JIA  Supervisory  Coundil strongly condemns all sorts of power-seeking
     reconciliation with the enemy to grab political .power and considers it as flagrant treason to the sacred cause of the people, the mujaheddin and the martyrs of the Islamic Revolution.
 7.  The JIA  Supervisory  Council      invites all the intellectual, skilled and
     professional countrymen inside or outside the- country to participate in the great jehad jirgah and to devote their efforts side by side with the people and the mujaheddin for the reconstruction of their war-torn country.
 8.  The JIA Supervisory Council is of the view that the continuity and strength of the revolution arid formation of an Islamic society depends on the degree of the intellectual attainment and character of the people and on this account calls upon all the leaders and commanders of the jehad to take' vigorous steps for the revival of the Islamic culture and educating and training of the mujaheddin and sons of the soil.
 9.  The JIA Supervisory Council supports free general elections as the best solution for all the mutual antagonisms and is prepared to take part in it.
 10. The JIA Supervisory Council informs all the military officers and civilian officials in the employ of the Kabul regime that,by availing the privilege of general amnesty announced by the mujaheddin, they should cooperate with the Islamic fronts and perform their Islamic, and national obligation towards the liberation of the country.
      At the end we pray to God Almighty to give strength to all our leaders and mujaheddin to march forward in the battle-field of jehad in the light of Divine Laws and to hold aloft the standard of jehad with faith in God, perseverence, steadfastness and reliance on Allah till the achievement of its sacred goals.
34
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
National Salvation Society
  in Kabul Issues Annual Report, Summary
       EDITOR'S NOTE: An abridged and translated version of the annual report of Jamiat-e-Rastagari Melli Afghanistan (Society for National Salvation or JRMA) explaining the reasons for the formation of this party, published in a newspaper in Kabul and sent to a number of persons in Peshawar, is reproduced here in view of its bearing on the Afghan crisis. The English translation is that of the Afghan Jehad.
         IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICIENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
 FOREWORD: This  treatise, in front of the dear readers, contains certain matters
 so far published by the Jamiat-e-Rastagari Milli.Afghanistan (JRMA) in pursuance of its onward march towards the ultimate goal.
                                                      r
      Some of Ehe readers may perhaps pose a question as to whether the activities of the ,JRMA during the past year has been merely -confined to the publication.of these few articles and interviews? Or whether this party has some achievements to its credit which may inspire some hope in the reader regarding its future success?
      Fortunately we have some positive achievements to our credit which are briefly enumerated in the following lines:
      contacts with the intelligentsia and representatives of different classes of people inside the country.
      Meetings of the JRMA members with well-known Afghan personalities residing in Europe, USA and India leading to consensus of opinion. Exchange of views with the members of the diplomatic corps in Kabul and interviews with the local and some foreign journalists brought our party to the attention of the national authorities and the international forums, thus the voice of our party was heard the world over through radio broadcasts, newspapers and magazines.
      We met and exchanged views several times with His Excellency Benon Sevan,. f’ special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan and Pakistan,.
      He has welcomed the aims and neutrality of the party.
                                                                                                       i'
                                                        35
   JULY-SEPTE^^
     - His Excellency Felix Armacora, special envoy, of the UN Secretary General for the Human Rights in Afghanistan visited the office, of JRMA and exchanged views with the representatives of the' party. He considered the basic policy and objectives of our party as an extension of the activities of the UNO and endorsed it.
        Sometimes back the Asia Watch team, one of the American NGOs Supervising the implementation of Helsinki. Accords pertaining to the human rights in the world, headed by His Excellency Bams, held discussions With us at the JRNA office. Similarly we had a meeting with H.E.F. Vert, Controller, Refugee Repatriation and Rehabilitation, UN High Cominissionerate for Refugees.
        Inspite of the fact that as a result of such activities during the past year, the JRNA has achieved some relative successes, we do not consider these successes adequate for reaching the ultimate goal of JRMA-i*e. cessation of war and restoration of peace in the country. For this purpose it is essential that the entire nation should gird up its loins and unite and strive for the salvation of this country from this tremendous misfortune* the JRNA would welcome with open arms all those who agree with us and share our aims and objectives. We are confident that the more the people close their ranks and the more concentrated their efforts are for restoring peace in the country, the sooner the war will come to an end and peace and traquility will prevail.
                                                  •
   PREFACE: The JRMA was established on 20 September, 1989,after the drafting and approval of the communique by the founder members and started functioning 1 October, 1989, by announcing its formation through radio, television and newspapers and since then has initiated many steps including interviews, meetings, opinion surveys, publishing of articles, sending letters,etc., in pursuance of giving a practical shape to its aims and ideals as stated in the communique. It has been attempted in this treatise, to publish salient points pertaining to the
   activities o£ hue party and the mode of its activity tor the interested parties*
        During our meetings and opinion surveys, mostly the circles favoring the JRMA while inquiring in general, particularly show interest in the following four main items:
    1.  How did the JRMA come into existence?
    2.  How could the founders of the party dare to take such a step, under the circumstances?
    3.  What is the ragime's role in connection with the formation and activities of the party?
    4.  What is the financial source of the party?
        Therefore our party, taking into consideration the importance of these questions and sensing its responsibility towards the queries of the concerned circles, offers necessary explanations in a concise manner regarding significant and outstanding aspects of these questions in order to satisfy our readers and sympathisers as far as possible so that perhaps we may be able bo throw light on the undeclared and unannounced dimensions of the purpose of its formation and the mode of its activity.
                                              36
OUt-V-SEPTEMBER. 1991                                               i«OL. ^4 jN0l4
        (1)  HOH DID THE JRMA COME INTO EXISTENCE?
        In May-Jane #1989, prior to the formation of the;pa-tty,iPresident Najibullah and Vice-President Abdul Rahim Hatef contacted some bf the.senior civil:servants individually arid after explaining the prevailing conditions in the country, masked them to become members of the Mediation Commission formed on the basis of unanimous decision of the April-May i989^Loya Jirgah. The decision. bf the Loya Jirgah, as explained by them, was ac follows:
    1. Two persons from each provincial administrative-unit and one.each from the provincial division would be nominated' by'the Loya Jirgah Of.administrative unit concerned.
    2. A number of persons from amongst * wellrreputed",: personalities ^wouldfevbe introduced by the National Front rand after the approval :of the President# would be included in the Mediation Commission.
        These senior citizens >due to certain ^ personal . reasons . and in view uof certain basic principles, were not interested tin ’ the nmembership of :the commission, according to the already approved plan, and v were not sure of; its effectiveness:and fruitfulness. ;They- believed.that a: mediator:
        should not be associated withrany bf the belligerent, parties; should not be confidant of any of the parties concerned;
        should have acquired clear and specific mandate for ^performing the mediation duties from the belligerent parties.
        At a time when discussions were.being held- with the Vice*-President* in :this ; connection, the'following: reportage was broadcast from.radio* and televilionand published in the officialdailies of the capital:
                                     20 JUNE 1989 (NATIONAL FRONT)
        Eight trustworthy persons have been selected for inclusion in*,the Mediation Commission.
        The executive committee of the National^ Frontss Central .Council, according ' to the Loya > Jirgah decision of April-May, 1989, ;; discussed the question bf introduction of a number of trustworthy personalities in . the - Mediation 'Commission.
        The executive committee approved the names of the following persons to be forwarded to the President for constituting the Mediation Commission:
* 1. Mr. Abdul Hakeem Katawazi, ex-Commander bf Gendarme.
  2.   Mr. Abdul guddus Majeed, ex -Deputy Minister, Ministry of Mines and
4..c-':" Industries.
V 3.   Prof. Abdul Wasse Seraj, ex-professor of college of Law and y Political
        Sciences.
    4.   Mr. Lai Gul Faryad, ex-deputy in the Wolusi Jirgah (House of the People;.
                                                37
^
 JULV-SEPTEMBER, 1991 _____________fllflUflMHIIll                  VOL.  4 NO.4
 5.   Mr. Mohammad Anwar1 Arghandiwal, ex-Minig ter of Justice; at present
      Professor, College of Law and Political Sciences.
 6.   Mr. Mohammad Anwar Ziayi, ex-Finance Minister.
 7.   Mr. Haji Hashem Jan Noorzai; Chief of the Noorzai Tribe.
 8.,  Lt. General (Ret.) Mohammad Azim; ex-Minister of Public Works.
      This news report/ broadcast and published, prior to final understanding and decision and wi thout the knowledge of the persons: in ques tion, came as a big surprise to all concerned and attracted the attention of the circles interested in * national affairs. A day or two after the broadcast of this news, the persons whose names had been announced by the radio and published by the newspapers, alongwith some others were collectively invited to. the office of the Vice-President Hatef. At first Mr. Hatef expressed his regrets for the premature broadcast of the news by the National Front and after discussions and exchange of views regarding the declaration by the National Front; the Loya Jirgah approval and the President's ordinance, the persons attending the meeting were invited to attend the inaugural session of the Mediation Commission at Hotel Ariana 15 August, 1989. Hence the invitees attended the inaugural session which was mainly devoted to the approval of the charter and organisational matters of the Mediation Commission. But after listening to the statements of some of the selected members and witnessing the proceedings of the session, they reiterated their- previous stand ‘ based on non-participation in the Mediation Commission. At the Conclusion of the- opening ceremony, the persons:in question, after announcing their disassociation with, the Mediation commission, as endorsed by Mr. Hatef too, congratulated the newly-elected leadership of the Commission and bade farewell to the members of the Commission.
      After this session, these persons who were later recognized as founder members of the jamiat-e-Rastagari Melli Afghanistan, agreed to have a sitting the next day to go over the recent developments and assess the pitiable condition of the country and determine their definite stand vis-a-vis the homeland and the countrymen.
      In this sitting, after exchanging views and discussing in detail the sorrowful conditions prevailing in the country and its undetermined future, it was decided:
                                    n
      "After declining membership of the Mediation Commission, we should not be callous towards our responsibility as members of the Afghan society faced with the wretched conditions imposed on our country and should not sit with our fingers crossed when we are aware of the extremely difficult conditions in our land".
      Hence it was decided to form a party with the sole object of restoration of peace and justice in the country, ensuring social and individual rights' and guaranteeing the pride and glory, of the nation. For attaining this noble and sacred ideal, the party ought to function on the basis of national* interest without discrimination or inclination towards any other; organization or party and inspired by well-wishing and total non-affiliation. The JRMA does not aspire to be a political party and will cease to function the moment it achieves its prescribed goal. The formation of the party would be subject to the condition
                                         38
 UUir-SEPTCNBEW. 1991                 IWii                     VOL. 4 NO.4
 that the government should nave trust xn xts fundamental objectives and abstain from any interference in the functioning of the JRMA which is primarily dedicated to the general welfare and betterment of the homeland.
     The decision of the meeting with its basic aims and mode of activity were brought to the notice of the Vice President Hatef who, fortunately, conceded to the formation of the JRMA with its specified aims and objects and expressed his goodwill, pledging non-interfgrence in its affairs.                              t
      The founder members of the JRMA, totalling 15 persons, whose names have been published in the first declaration of the Jamiat, with the Divine help and guidance, took the initiative to draft and approve the Jamiat's charter encompassing its basic policies.
 2. HOW COULD THE POUNDERS OP THE JRMA DARE TAKE SUCH AN INITIATIVE
 circumstances?
UNDER THE
 , In view of the present pitiable conditions of the country where an Afghan kills another Afghan, one group regards the other as an enemy. Destructive weapons supplied by the aliens are flooding the country spreading death and destruction and worst of all when our beloved country is pushed close to the edge Of the precipice of racial, ethnic, linguistic and ideological conflicts and also national disintegration, it is incumbent on each and every' Afghan to perform his conscientious and ideological obligations in favor of his country and countrymen# in the face of all these misfortunes. The founder members of the JRMA with a firm conviction that keeping silent and witnessing the lamentable condition of the country, is an unforgivable sin, have resorted to lay the foundation of this party fearlessly just for the sake of high ideals and national interests.
 3. WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT' S ROLE IN THE FORMATION AND FUNCTIONING OF THIS
      JAMIAT?
                                 ' j         ’
      The government's contribution to the formation of JRMA has been explained in the first section of this preface. It may, however, be admitted that the government has far been true to its promise of non-interference in the affairs of the Society and we have not . sensed any direct or indirect influence of the government in our activities. Appreciating this responsible and careful behavior on the part of the government, we hope "that in future too we will benefit from the same attitude*
 4. HON IS THE JAMIAT FINANCED?
      In the internal procedure of the party which has been approved simultaneous with the party declaration by the founder members, the following explanation has been given regarding its financial sources:
                                                j
      "The Jamiat is funded through financial aid, membership fees and voluntary donations by well-wishing individuals and institutions."
                                             39
    JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991               wMNlHflfl ■                    VOL.  4  NO.4
         In the beginning, as a result of contacts made by some of the members of theSociety, a certain amount of money, collected from charitable businessmen and industrialists, was deposited in the party account through the Directorate General of the Afghan Chambers of Commerce and Industry, to meet the primary expenses of the JRMA. Fortunately the financial assistance of the supporters of the party devoted to the restoration of peace in the country, continues and is appreciated by the Society.'Besides/it is clarified that all the overseas travel expenses of the party members viz; in foreign exchange or Afghan currency, is met by their personal accounts and none of' the party members had received any government assistance for travel abroad neither do they have any such desire. The party intends to send its representatives for making contacts with expatriate Afghans and some of the international personalities and organizations, provided it can afford to do so, but so far its financial position and other difficulties have not allowed it to carry out this plan.
         The Administrative Committee of the party, within the framework of the specific policies duly declared in its charter, has met with the high-ranking authorities of the President's office, leaders of the existing political parties in the country, Benon Sevan UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, ambassadors and diplomats of India,', USSR, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, and France to elicit th^ir opinion and to acquire first-hand information as well as to explain the aims and objectives of the JRMA to them. Besides a large number of foreign journalists from UK, Germany, USA, France, USSR, Australia, India, and Hungary have visited the offices of the jamiat and have interviewed us. Probably some of these reports have reached our countrymen through BBC, VOA, Radio Moscow and VOG which have clearly reflected the objectives and views of the Society about the problems in question.
                                          1 NOVEMBER, 1989
    HIS EXCELLENCY MR. PEREZ DE CUELLAR, THE UN SECRETARY GENERAL, NEW YORK:
    Your Excellency,
         I have the honor to draw your attention to the fact that recently a number of statesmen, technocrats and retired and experienced generals of the country have resorted to the formation of a party in Kabul called "Jamiat-’e-Rastgari "Melli Afghanistan1' with the basic aim of endeavoring to find ways and means to restore real peace in the country.
         The founders qf the JRMA have publicised the aims and policies of the party through newspapers, radio and television in Kabul. A copy of the same is appended here for Your Excellency's perusal.                            -
                                                                            I
         The JRMA believes that most of these misfortunes and devastation of our country have roots in the following realities:-
      -  The foreign powers have turned our free country into'an arena of political conflicts for the expansion of their political and economic influence.
      -  The foreign powers by sending destructive weapons and extending unlimited assistance to the belligerent parties, are fanning the flames of war.
                                                     40
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
VOL- 4 NO-4
        The JRMA believes that undoubtedly the Afghans have the right to determine their destiny in an environment free from all kinds of domestic and outside pressures and unfathered with any alien influence and interference;
        The party is committed to pursue the path of peace without fear or favor and strictly on the basis of national interests.
        The founder members of the party believe unanimously that the human society, particularly the UNO, under Your Excellency's able and mature guidance, has played a positive and effective role in the process of the Soviet troops withdrawal from this country. However, they have a firm belief that the UNO can undertake more effective measures to stop the devastating war too in this land.
        With a deep conviction that whoever takes a step in the path of human welfare, God Almighty guarantees his success. Our party respectfully seeks guidance, advice and financial assistance of internationally known personalities, organizations and institutions in order to ensure the salvation of our homeland.
        We hope that ■, for the sake of putting an end to war and fratricide in this country and for alleviating the miseries of the people, your Excellency would honor us by lending your effective personal support to reach this sacred goal at this crucial juncture of our country's history.
        Hoping for Your Excellency's guidance and assistance.
                                                  Professor Mohammad Asghar Chairman
   b November, 1989                         The Afghan National Salvation Party
   HIS EXCELLENCY DR. MOHAMMAD YOUSUF, THE FORMER AFGHAN PRIME MINISTER.
        Most respectfully we would like to inform you that recently a number of experienced and good-intentioned persons in the country have come together and formed the Afghan National Salvation Party i.e. the JRMA and have publicised their aims and objects in the Society's Charter. As you wiil observe in this Charter, the JRMA has taken the initiative without any fear or. favor and only for the sake of national interest with complete freedom and detachment and without discrimination or inclination towards anyone, just inspired by good intentions and for the purpose of finding a solution to the national problems and at the most to attain peace and justice and to ensure the social and individual rights in the light of a relatively more favorable political atmosphere in the country by Divine help and guidance.
        It may be explained here that the JRMA is basically not a political party-or a mediation committee. Its objects and duties have been clearly enumerated in its charter. In order that this party may be able to benefit from the views and guidelines of the credible and influential Afghan personalities, within the framework of the fundamental policy specified in the Charter, for attaining the declared targets, it is requested that merely for the Divine pleasure, and for human compassion and duty towards the fatherland, please extend your cooperation to us by expressing your views and providing necessary guidance to us.
        Whereas the people, of Afghanis tan.. appreciate your honest and befitting
41
  JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             WINJtHflfl                     VOL. 4 NO.4
  services especially during the tenure ot Premiership they would value Your Excellency's views regarding the. aims of the JRMA, because you have a vast knowledge of Afghanistan and have acquired great experience in statecraft.
                We should be obliged if you yould kindly Convey your reaction to us.
                                     PROF. MOHAMMED ASGHAR CHAIRMAN, THE NATIONAL SALVATION PARTY ‘
 - 23 December, 1989:
           THE RESPECTED ELDERLY STATESMAN MOHAMMAD ZAHERf THE FORMER KING OF AFGHANISTAN
       The eleven years of a devastating war has brought our beloved country to the edge of the precipice of doom and destruction. So lorlg as the aggressive .■Soviet troops remained on the soil of Afghanistan, we Afghans considered struggle and resistance against these forces as our national duty. But as you are aware, after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, war and bloodshed has ' reached a peak in the country and no day passes without shedding the blood of -hundreds of our unfortunate countrymen and without further destroying our ruined ?arid ravaged country. Under    the circumstances, certainly    the time has come  to
  search for effective and reasonable options   for putting    an end to the war  and
  for restoring peace so that the nation may get rid of this misfortune.
       Solution of the present crisis in Afghanistan necessitates vigorous efforts and endeavor by all the sons of this soil who have been able to acquire education and knowledge inside or outside the country by dint of the sacrifices offered by the rest of the Afghan nation or who have earned a good reputation due to the opportunities provided by this nation.
       The number of highly qualified, well educated, intelligent and experienced Afghans who have fled to the four corners of the world owing to the naked foreign aggression and the war imposed by an alien power, is not limited. They suffer the pangs of pain as   a result of the  devastation  of the country  and the
  misfortunes and miseries of   the nation. Now they can help the homeland   get  rid
  Of the terrible misfortune by unity, solidarity and the force of thought and action. But this is possible only in case they activate themselves and adopt a clear-cut policy. The founders of the JRMA believe that such a dynamism, unity and ■ solidarity among the Afghans need the guidance and struggle of eminent persons like you so that they may be led to the common goal through proper - contacts and understanding. The time of waiting for favorable circumstances has ? elapsed and the time has come that we ourselves should take the initiative to create conditions conducive to cessation of war and restoratipn of peace in the country, and devote all our energies towards this cause.
       In view of the facts stated above, recently some of us old servants of the country# who are leading a retired life since 1973, have decided to contribute as much as humanly possible to the restoration of tranguility in our common homeland -which is the focal point of the desires and aspirations of the tyrannized and oppressed people of this war-torn country. We consider it as our •national duty and moral obligation to the fatherland. For this purpose we have formed a nucleus organization called the Jamiat-e-Rastagari Melli (National Salvation Society) and as a first step, outlined its basic aims and policy and •have publicised the same.
                                        \
                                              42
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
Alllfllllll                        vol.  4  no.4
        The JRMA was resolved to search for a key to the solution of this imbroglio to save our homeland from destruction.by preserving complete freedom and without affiliation or       association with any party    or group and        without any
  discrimination or    inclination to this or that party and with complete trust in
  God Almighty and      hoping for the assistance and guidance of our   well-wishing
  countrymen without any fear from the potential dangers involved in such ventures. We wish to be of some service, which we can possibly render, to our homeland.
        The founder     members of the JRMA directly  need your wise    guidance and
  sagacious views on national and international events, acknowledged by the entire Afghan nation.
        Hoping that your profound counsel would serve as a beacon to us, we are ' sending a copy of the JRMA charter for your perusal.
        With best regards.
                                                                     V
                                        Prof. Mohammad Asghar Chairman
                                                 Jamiat-e-Rastagari Melli Afghanistan IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
   The Most Respected Scholar President of the AIG, in exile.
23 December 1989
        Assalam-o-Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah-e-Wa Barakatuh:'
        As you are aware, during the past more than 11 years, the war and destruction have pushed our dear and beloved homeland Afghanistan to the precipice of ruination. So long as the Soviet troops were on the Afghan soil, we Afghans considered fight and struggle against the aggressors as our national obligation and did not consider it rightful to have even talks with them.
        Now that one year has elapsed since the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from our country and war and bloodshed has intensified in the country and , everyday hundreds of our countrymen are exterminated and our ruined country is further ravaged and devastated.
        Recently some of the old servants of the country who are leading a retired life since 1973 and did not leave the country, during the war, due to plausible and unavoidable reasons, and shared the sorrows and misfortunes of. the nation, have now decided to.contribute, even if on a lesser scale, to the restoration of peace in our common homeland which is the focal point of the desires and aspirations of the tyrannized people of this war-torn country and thus perform their national duty and patriotic obligation. For this purpose a nucleus association, called the JRMA, has been formed and as a first step in this regard, have publicised its basic aims and policy.
        The founder members are of the opinion that it is high time that the
                                                   43
   JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          IlfflllllNJIHAO              VOL.  4 NO.4
   mmtmmmmmmKmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnimmmmmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmmimmmmm
   parties and groups engaged in the war, political parties and all influential and knowledgeable and patriotic personalities ought to devote their entire energies towards the salvation of the oppressed Afghan nation.
        A nation which has suffered tremendously during more than 11 years whose more than five million people have fled and sought asylum in alien countries, whose nearly two million people have been massacred or handicapped, tens of thousands others have been wounded and disabled, whose more than half a centuries, achievements have been eliminated, whose educational system has collapsed, whose economy is facing bankruptcy, would certainly . yearn for reconstruction when the war comes to conclusion and peace .is restored in the country. They would be able then to think about their future and to lay the foundation of a system based on Islam, the positive and beneficial values of their national culture and history and the requirements of the modern age. Undoubtedly such a condition would be feasible only when the Afghans set aside their personal interests and partisan inclinations arid cut short foreign interference in our affairs and be realistic and give serious consideration to the point that whatever desires they nurture in their hearts, for the present and the future status of the country, are really commensurate with the things that are1 possible and practicable.
        The services and unparalleled sacrifices of the Afghan mujaheddin (enjoying the support and cooperation of their nation) during this long and arduous warfare have evoked the surprise and wonder of the world at large, and have been admired and appreciated by. the patriotic people of Afghanistan. The people are sure that in the same manner as the Afghan mujaheddin* demonstrated their valor and courage on the battlefield, they are also capable of taking a great initiative in creating a favorable political atmosphere and putting an end to the war, and in a befitting way necessitating such an initiative, would take a step forward.
        A copy of the JRMA's Charter is enclosed herewith for your perusal. We hope that you would kindly oblige us with your sagacious views in this regard. -
        With sincere regards,
   4                                               .
                                                  Yours
                                        Prof. Mohammad Asghar Chairman
                                     Afghan National Salvation Party
           IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
   The Chairman                                    2 January, 1990
   Afghan Islamic Coalition Council Tehran.
        As a result of the ruinous war being waged in our beloved country, Afghanistan, since 1978, nearly l.b million of our countrymen have been killed, maimed or invalidated, most of our economic, social and civic institutions.have
                                       44
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              MANlIllMID                      VOL- 4 NO*4
 been- destroyed and our people are faced with disease and poverty and the danger of dismemberment of the country and national disintegration is all the time threatening our country.
      So long as the aggressive Soviet troops were on the Afghan soil, an overwhelming majority of the nation supported jehad against the enemy but today when the aggressors had to quit our land in the face of unprecedented sacrifices by our valiant mujaheddin, the war and destruction has not come to an end yet.
 One Afghan kills another Afghan and renders our ruined country more ravaged and devastated. .
      Some of the senior and seasoned servants of the country who have been mostly leading a . retired life since 1973 and have not left the country, during the war, for plausible reasons, cannot any longer bear to witness such a painful tragedy and for the sake of creating a favorable climate for the restoration of security and tranquility in the country, have formed an association called the JRHA and have activated it.
      The aims of the Jamiat have been mentioned in its Charter, a copy of which alongwith ' an open letter of the JRMA recently published in the newspaper "Palvasha" is enclosed for necessary perusal. Besides in pursuance of our direct contacts, in writing, with all our countrymen inside or outdide the country, we have sent a letter to Mr. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President in exile, a copy of which is enclosed. We firmly believe that our countrymen will be able, after the war, to evolve a system, with complete unity of views and a strong faith, commensurate , with the national custdms and traditions, fundamental principles of Islam and the requirements of time and open the door towards a prosperous and progressive future..
      It is hoped that our mujahed friends in Iran, will go through the letter alongwith the Charter, and the open letter minutely and oblige us with their views and suggestions.
                                                     With regards,
      *                                  .               Yours
                                                 Prof. Mohammad Asghar
                                                       Chairman                  *
                                            Jamiat-e^Rastagari Melli Afghanistan
                                    OPEN LETTER                  29 January, 1990
      Praise be to Allah and Blessings and Peace to the Last Prophet of God Almighty.
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL
 Dear Countrymen,
                                                                                                   4
      The JRMA, after publicising its Charter dated 6 October, 1989, has taken some steps for eliciting public opinion and surveying others* views which are briefly explained here:                                                             *
                                             45
     JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991             HfGHflHJtHflO                     VOL. 4 N0.4
          The  JRMA despatched                                             its Charter alongwith letters to the UN Secretary
     General,  some of the international                                               organizations and persons of national
     character and credibility residing in India, Europe and the USA and so.ught their
     opinion and assistance regarding ways and means of achieving the goal of peace in our war-weary country. In the meantime competent representatives of the JRMA in Kabul had meetings with Mr, Benon Sevan the special envoy of the UN Secretary General; the Soviet Minister Plenipotentiary and Counsellor in the Soviet Embassy; the Indian Ambassador; Charge d' Affaires of the Iranian embassy and Flex Armacora the special UN Representative for Human Rights in Afghanistan and explained the aims and objects of the Society which was welcomed by them.
          But the thing which is of immense importance from the JRMA's point of view, is the meeting and discussions with some of the important personalities belonging to the ruling party and the government, intellectuals, influential persons,  professors and                                              students of the universities, businessmen, private
     entrepreneurs, professionals and even shop keepers to elicit their opinion, which were very useful and educative. This, survey clearly showed that the people are fed up with war and devastation and an overwhelming majority believes that war and massacre brings nothing but destruction and will not be to the interest of anyone of the belligerent parties.
          In the meantime they pointed to the contradictions between the words and the deed of the officials inside and outside the country which has shaken their credibility, creating big hurdles in the procedure of restoration of peace in the country. This is considered as one of the genuine reasons for the continuation of bloodshed and ruination in this land. They believe this is high time for the belligerent parties to give up power struggle and to start pondering over the fate of the tarnished Afghan nation and find a way to stop the war and to ensure peace in this country.
          With this short preface, now we would like to mention some of the matters which emerged during these parleys and we deem it fit to bring them to the notice of our dear countrymen.       \                                          ■
          As everyone knows, the war in our beloved country, Afghanistan, is continuing with ever-increasing ferocity and every day a large number of our countrymen lose their lives or become wounded and disabled, bringing further ruination to our already ruined land. Two important factors, one internal and the other external, play a significant role in this destructive war. Among the external factors, many countries may be named, including the most important ones
     i.e. the USA and the USSR. In fact these two countries, in the external field, mainly hold the key to the Afghan problem and they have the power to plunge our world in the hell of war or to save the world from the .destructions of war.
      • • /
          As our countrymen are aware, five years ago Michael Gorbachev, a man of initiative, assumed power in the USSR and introduced policies of presteroika (reconstruction) and glasnost (openness) in that country. He brought about such great and deep changes there that during the years before him none dared even mention these ideas for fear of being branded as revisionist and sentenced to imprisonment. These developments Can be described as harbingers of relaxation and
                                                46
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HfflllllNiftWHl            VOL. 4 NO.4
     dissolution of dictatorship and first steps towards the introduction ot real democracy in that country.
          Not much later these changes infiltrated into the east European countries too and communist parties in, these countries had to give up the monopoly pf power one by one. Only Nikolai Cheausescu in Romania considered these developments in East Europe, a result of the alien conspiracies and sabotage and tried to resist the popular demonstrations in order to preserve his dictatorial hold over the country. But in the face of mounting popular upheaval, he lost his life and due to the bloody revolution resulting in the massacre of thousands of people not only his dictatorship collapsed but the political ^life of the communist party in that country, also faced the danger of dissolution. The introduction of presteroika and glasnost in the Soviet Union and the admission Of Gorbachev that reforms in a country are the inalienable right       of the people,
     can be termed as the original factor of these developments.
          The Soviet Union’s policy towards Afghanistan is to some- extent inclined towards realistic approach. The Soviet Foreign Minister Edward Schevardnadze condemned the Soviet invasion on Afghanistan 27 December, 1979,. as an immoral and erroneous action contravening international laws and the laws enforced in the Soviet Union.
          Sometimes later, the Soviet Parliament in one of' its general sessions condemned this action from the political as well as moral points of view and in fact endorsed the view     expressed  by   Schevardnadze. These    admissions of the
     Soviet authorities reflecting realism and pregmatism, clearly shows that the nine-year Afghan war against the Red Army was indeed a war for defending the freedom and territorial    integrity  of    Afghanistan and not    a reactionary war
     against progress and development, as claimed by some circles.        .
          While welcoming the admissions of Soviet leaders, we declare        openly that
     merely admitting one's     mistakes   or     condemning them is    not sufficient to
     •compensate the destruction and pain and  misery imposed on our  people and country.
     In the^ first instance,    the way   out    of more than eleven    years9 tragedy in
     Afghanistan would be possible only when the USSR takes serious steps to stop the
                                                                                 y •' • •
     supply of destructive weapons from whatever source it may be in order put an end to the war and bloodshed in Afghanistan and adopt useful measures to provide economic assistance through the UN*" for reconstruction work in our war-torn country. On the other hand there is no doubt that the Soviet Union will pursue the same policy here which has been put into practice in East Europe, opening the doors on reforms, freedom and democracy.
      ( The USA, on its part, has been involved in the Afghan war and its continuation till today. Hence the US aid to the Afghan mujaheddin till the presence of the Soviet troops on our soil, was plausible. But presently when the Soviet forces have been withdrawn and statesmen and political observers inside or outside the country are of the opinion that the Afghan problem cannot be solved militarily and the only option for its solution is through dialogue. Under the circumstances it does not behoove a super-power, claiming to be a champion of democracy and human rights, to fuel the fire of war in a country by supplying arms and weapons for destruction. Now, as mentioned above, the time has come when
                                                  47
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         ft[GHANlllMIO              VOL. 4 N0.4
    the two super-powers should abstain from any interference in our country's affairs and take serious and effective steps for finding a key to the political solution of the Afghan problem with the help and cooperation of' the UN which has got the mandate to find ways and means for the solution of the Afghan problem according to principles 20-44 of the UN resolution in this connection. If th^se two super-powers cOme to an agreement then we would not face* any difficulty in forestalling the interference of many other countries in our domestic affairs.
         Our relations with Pakistan and Iran with whom we have common borders, deserve special attention which cannot be overlooked and which necessitates a brief mention, here.                                                          .                        .
         We have old cultural, religious and historical ties with Pakistan and Iran* We highly appreciate the fact that these two neighborly brother countries accommodated the Afghan refugees in their territories during the most critical and painful period in our history. Hence cordial relations ‘and friendship between the peoples and governments of these three ’ countries have been very desirable and plays.a valuable role in guaranteeing peace and stability in this part  of                          the world. However this peace and stability will be feasible only when
    none  of these three neighbors interferes in the internal affairs of th% other
    neighbour.
         Today when a bloody war is being waged in Afghanistan, interference in favor Of one of the belligerent parties or instigations to provoke more warfare in our country, would not only severely endanger Afghanistan's relations with the   interfering country                           but        would inevitably give birth to unpleasant
    consequences for the country concerned. Therefore out of friendly feelings that we have for them, we expect the countries having common borders with us, to let us solve our own problems and to avoid any interference which may lead to unpleasant consequences not necessarily confined within the borders of Afghanistan, endangering peace and tranquility in the region and affecting the country concerned.
         The second factor in the Afghan imbroglio is the internal one in which the AIG   in                            exile, Peshawar and      Iran-based mujaheddin organizations, Afghan
    expatriates in 'India, Europe and. the USA have proportionate contributions. Unfortunately it is clearly observed that some of these component parts are
    still trying for power and superiority, ignoring the plight and miseries of the oppressed Afghan nation.                              •
         The Peshawar-based seven parties have formed the interim government but the policies and political, economic and social programs of this government are not clear enough to be adequately answerable to the immediate and long-range requirements of our ruined country and to be of real use for the reconstruction of Afghanistan and alleviation of the ‘miseries of the Afghan nation. On the other hand not only the Peshawar-based mujaheddin groups are devoid of unity in thought and action but there also exist many differences between them and ouf mine-party Shia brothers in Iran. That is why the Iran-based parties have not been able yet to see eye to eye with them on the question of participation
                                               48
   JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             MGIIIINJlHflfl                   VOL. 4 NO.4
   In the interim government. These differences are not confined in the groups and circles across the borders of the country but has also seaped in the groups inside Afghanistan, too, affecting the mutual bonds among the mujaheddin leading sometimes to grave situations. The nation expects that in the same way as the mujaheddin played an active part during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, today also they ought to gird up their loins, forget their mutual differences and at this historical juncture when the country's unity is in danger, should try to find a peaceful solution to the Afghan problem with realism and harmony in thought and action.
        A large number of our countrymen have fled to Europe and the United States and have settled down there. A number of them are knowledgeable and intellectual persons and suffer t.he pangs of being away from their war-tom and blood-stained homeland. They have formed a number of groups and sometimes held meetings, too. Some of them express their views regarding the solution of the Afghan problem through their interviews with the reputable world media and publishing articles in foreign journals. ‘But these experienced, seasoned and scholarly personalities who are very well aware of the present day conditions in Afghanistan and the world, have not been able to unite at one platform. Hence this inertia and state of fluidity on their part,# under the existing circumstances, cannot be helpful to the process of solving our dear country's problem.
        The question is, what is happening in Afghanistan at present and what is the assessment of the ruling party and the government concerning the long war in the country and the recent great developments in the world?
        Quite a while ago the government declared that the system in Afghanistan is neither socialist nor communist but the charter of’ the PDPA based on the accepted fundamental points of the year 1964, has undergone no significant change yet and the PDPA despite the latest developments in the USSR and the East European countries and whatever happened in Afghanistan during the past 11 years or so, is still on the run to monopolize power at any cost. Here it may be pointed out that we are not concerned with the PDPA or its organizational set-up which resembles that of the USSR Communist Party. But at the moment we would like to remind the party members their much claimed sense of patriotism and love for the nation and draw their attention to the contradictions in their words and deeds.
        In the November-December 1987 Constitution, the preamble contains only a
   reference to the PDPA as planner and organizer of the national reconciliation
   policy without naming the* party as such. The fifth article of this Constitution
   considers the formation of political parties permissible. Yet in Afghanistan
   which is described neither socialist nor communist, the PDPA governs the state
   without having any Constitutional mandate. The cabinet ministers and directors
   and heads of important government offices are all party members and the
   government cannot take any action pertaining to important problems without
   consulting the Central Committee and the Political Bureau. The ruling party * | . cells still exist in all the ministries and the departments and interfere in all
   matters.
        The various ethnic groups and tribes in Afghanistan during the past
                                               49
    JULV-SEPTEMBER, 1991             HKlllflHJtHflO        _________VOL. 4 NO-4
    centuries always considered themselves as parts of the nation and lived like brothers and equal partners in their independent homeland. There is no dout that sometimes differences cropped up among some of them, particularly in the Pashtun areas, which were usually solved by the ethnic jirgas, and in certain rare cases by the government, without any fighting or conflict. But of late some ethnic
    groups and tribes have been termed as "nationalities" and thus favorable conditions have been created for some short-sighted people to turn Afghanistan into a second Lebanon on the instigation of alien powers or revive feudal system in this country. Such a situation has been a source of grave concern to the well-informed and for most of people regardless of their affiliations with this or that tribe or ethnic group.                                             \
         These realities have given rise to a grave crisis in credibility and have added to the worries of the people. They know very well that so long as this crisis is not removed by synchronizing the word and deed of the office-bearers inside and outside the country, cessation of war would not be possible through negotiations.
         As, the eleven years war has proved to the world, the Muslim nation of Afghanistan will never accept an ideology repugnant to its national traditions jand religious beliefs. Today the slogans of peacefulness and patriotism of the party and the government are on trial and since quite a while the change of name of the party is on everyone's lips but so long as the attitude and objectives of the party do not undergo a fundamental change, merely a change of name would serve no purpose at all. The Afghan nation has been severely shocked due to the _11 years' war as well as the Soviet invasion and can judge the conditions better than ever before. Hence it is expecting a timely and expeditious action to do away with these contradictions and to improve the situation so that the way is paved for a dialogue to cut short this ongoing war and bloodshed and to ensure real peace in the country in order to put an end to this bloody and destructive tragedy.
         THE JRMA OPEN LETTER TO THE FOREIGN MINISTERS OF THE USSR AND THE USA.
    Your Excellencies,
         Availing the opportunity in connection with the proposed meeting of Your Excellencies on 17 July, 1990, the following facts are brought to your kind notice:
          The devastating war is still continuing in Afghanistan.
          The National Salvation Party believes that two factors i.e. domestic and foreign, are involved in this destructive war. In view of Your Excellencies' future meeting we Would focus more attention here on the foreign element.
          The incident of 27 April 1978 took the nation by surprise and resulted in bringing the communist regime in power in Afghanistan. This untoward occurrence provided various excuses for foreign interventions in our domestic affairs.
                                               50
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991           fiiflllHHJtHIlfl________________________VOL. 4 N0.4
     The Soviet invasion 27 December, 1979 durinq Brezhnev rule, compelled the proud and combatant people of this ancient land once again to take up arms to defend their ageold heritage and their sacred territory. This armed
 aggression by the Red Army took place under the label of international help to protect the present regime in Afghanistan, Thus once more a super power faced the massive resistance of the proud people of this country and another super power rushed to lend support to the valiant Afghan( fighters. This war which was in fact a fierce fight for the preservation of the freedom and territorial integrity of the homeland by the lionhearted Afghan stalwarts, culminated in the total withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan after nine long years of bloodshed and sacrifice. The day the last soldier of the Red Army went out of the borders of our country, i.e. 15 February 1989, will be recorded in golden letters in the history of this venerable land.
       Today when signs of amicable relations between these two super powers and detente on the global level are visible and day by day the scope of realism and genuine democracy is expanding in different parts of the world and difficult political problems all over the world are being solved peacefully in an atmosphere free of all tensions and prejudices, we expect that the respectable ministers would pay immediate and serious attention, as far as they are concerned, to find a solution for the Afghan problem.
       When great changes are possible in East Europe and the thorny issues of Nicaragua, Namibia, Yemen, East and West Germany and Angola etc. can be solved by political means, why should Afghans continue to kill each other? Is the Afghan problem more complicated and more difficult than those of all the other countries?
       We are sure that the various aspects of the foreign factor involved in the imbroglio of this miserable country can be solved by realism, flexibility and good will.
       It is clearly discernable from the present conditions in the country and the recent developments        in some other countries,  that the thing    we call the
 "third front", is of great importance and should not be kept out of sight. The "third front" in Afghanistan consists of the great majority of patriotic people who are unarmed and at present silent. They have witnessed and suffered all the travails inside the country and are calling upon both the belligerent parties, after the Soviet troops withdrawal, to come to terms because they do not want that their beloved homeland should be        destroyed   any more; Till   recently the
 "third front" was a victim of anger and fury of both the sides. One condemned this patriotic community      as neutral and the other   dubbed them as  collaborators
 with the communists. But    we believe that   the role and significance of this class
 of people in the planning for the solution of the Afghan problem be ignored, even by the foreign powers.
       In the opinion of the JRMA, extensive UN coordination, effective cooperation between the two super powers and active participation of the "third front" inside Afghanistan can play a significant and useful role in the future of this country.
                                               51
  JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         AfGIIANJtHAO               VOL. 4  NO.4
        Keeping in - view this reality, allow as to bring to the notice of Your Excellencies a plan which, as the JRMA believes,' may prove a step forward towards the solution of the Afghan problem. This plan has been chalked oaf after conducting opinion polls and meetings of the JRMA members with the people and surveying the condition's of the region. Here a summary of the same is presented:
        REDUCTION OF FIRE-POWER
        Immediate ban on the use of SCUD, Oregan Cluster bombs and Succour etc. missiles and rockets. Discontinuation of bombing on cities, villages, residential areas, economic, cultural and health institutions.
        STOPPAGE OF HOSTILE PROPAGANDA                                         ■ ;
        Banning all sorts of hostile and provocative propaganda by ,the belligerent parties media.         :
        NEGATIVE SYMMETRY
        Immediate stoppage. of the supply of all kinds of weapons and ammunition, particularly of mass destruction, and discontinuation of financial aid helping the continuation of war.       n                    ,
        ARMS CONTROL
        Heavy weapon arsenals should be put under the supervision and control of the UN.
        HUMANITARIAN AIDS     ,          '  / '                          ,
        All humanitarian primary commodity assistance (food, clothes and medicine) should be distributed among the deserving people only through the UN, with the help of the non-partisan Afghan associations and groups.
        CIVILIAN ASSISTANCE TO THE BELLIGERENT PARTIES
        The specific or classified civilian aids to the belligerent Afghan governments inside and outside Afghanistan should also he handed over to the UN representatives.
     ' .. ' • - .. ' ’ ’ ■ . ,
         APPOINTMENT OF PEACE COMMITTEE                                            :
         Nearly .30 non-partisan and credible Afghan personalities residing inside and outside the country .ought to be 'included in a Peace Committee 'for Afghanistan by the Special Office of the UN in consultation with all the internal and external parties concerned. This Committee, with 'the close cooperation and constant advice of the UN Special Office, should work for achieving the required goals.                               ,
         GRAND AFGHAN ASSEMBLY                '
         The Peace Committee is duty-bound to constitute a grand Afghan Assembly
                                            52
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             RfRHflHJtHAfl                   VOL.  4 NO-4
   with the cooperation and assistance of the UN offices and in consultation with all the relevant parties and circles under the UN supervision. Representatives and leaders of all the Afghan classes, par tiesorganizations and groups inside and outside the country will participate in this Assembly.
        This Assembly, comprised of nearly 300 persons, will be convened in one of the foreign countries. Its composition would be decided by the Peace Committee and the UN office. Simultaneous with the formation of the’ Grand Assembly a general cease fire will be enforced throughout the country.
        SUPREME COUNCIL
        This Council, consisting of about 40 per sons/would be elected by the Grand Afghan Assembly and would be considered the highest authority during the interim period in Afghanistan. The Leadership Committee of the Council will be elected by the members of 'the Council. With the election of the state Supreme Council members, the existing Afghan governments inside and outside the country as well as the Peace Committee shall be dissolved.
        INTERIM GOVERNMENT
        Simultaneous with the dissolution of the Afghan governments, the Supreme Council shall appoint the President and members of the interim government from amongst persons who are not members of the Supreme Council. The Interim Government would draft the constitution and the Election Rules of the National Assembly as soon as possible and will call upon the traditional LOya Jirgah to approve the siame. Members of the State Supreme Council and members of the Interim government take part in the Loya Jirgah. The interim government besides performing the routine duties pertaining to the rehabilitation of the domestically displaced people and the refugees returning from foreign countries with the help of the United Nations, would pay special attention to national unity and continue its efforts in this connection.-
        NEW GOVERNMENT                      *
        After the approval of the Constitution and the Election Rules, at the end of the general, elections, a new government would come into existence and an elected parliament will start functioning* and the Supreme Council and the Interim government will stand dissolved.
          IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST BENEFICIENT AND THE MOST MERCIFUL PRAISE BE TO GOD ALMIGHTY AND BLESSINGS TO THE LAST PROPHET.
   To, Their Excellencies Foreign Ministers of the OIC, Cairo, Egypt.
        Dear brothers.
        The JRMA has the honor to avail this opportunity on the occasion of the meeting of the foreign ministers of the OIC, to point out the misfortune which befell your Muslim brethren i.e. the people of Afghanistan, in this August session and to hope that the member countries would devote their attention to
                            /
                                                  53
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
ill
III
VOL. 4 NO.4
  patting an end to the twelve-year-old miseries and sufferings of this miserable
  land by their effective and constructive contribution in this field.
            * '
    The JRMA comprising a number of well-known Afghans, is performing its duty as a non-partisan association without discrimination and without inclination to any party, relying on God Almighty, for the restoration of peace, national unity and creation of a system of government based on the sacred fundamentals of Islam and national history and culture. The JRMA, by consulting the UN offices, belligerent parties, political leaders, Afghan parties in Pakistan and Iran, the Afghans in the country and the expatriate Afghans, the ex-King and his supporters as well as all the parties concerned, is trying to find ways and means for stopping the war and restoring peace in this war-worn country and ensuring peaceful implementation of these ways and means. The devastating war is continuing and as a result of the super power interference and supply of weapons of mass destruction, this fratricidal war is intensified with every day that passes.
  MohsenVs Letter to Yeltsin
I
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a letter by Mohammad Asef Mohseni leader of HI A (Mohseni) to Russian leader Boris Yeltsin on Afghan-Soviet relations•
\
       Changes in your country afford' with the opportunity to write this letter and to establish contact with you for the first time. Today the majority of the people praise your bravery and steadfastness and wish you and your colleagues success towards carrying reforms, in the country and taking up measures for the welfare of the Soviet people.
       I draw your attention to the following with utmost brevity.
       Undoubtedly the realism excersised by Mr. Gorbachev has resulted in the creation of an open atmposhere in the Soviet Union and saved the world from the cold war and even the danger of the Third World War. This contribution of course deserves appreciation and ftill be recorded in the annals of Soviet history.
       Undoubtedly the wide-ranging intellectual and social revolution taking place in the Soviet Union after 70 years of agony *and bitter experiences is much deeper than the grasp of Mr. Gorbachev who acts cautiously and at times apologetically. Our belief is that he lags behind in realizing the hopes and aspirations of the aggrieved Soviet masses.
            This gap between the currents of revolution and actions undertaken by the , President of the Soviet Union paves the way for the revival of antiquated and despotic forces, which may create hinderances for the revo-
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
        lution and people and even cause the disintegration of your country and trigger off a series of coups entailing material and spiritual losses for your country.
        In order to bestow success to this on-going revolution, there is a need for commitment and absolute resolve of people like yourself and this of course further increases the social and ethical responsibilities of yourself and your realistic colleagues to persuade Mr. Gorbachev to act resolutely against reactionary forces and not loose the available opportunity.
        You are aware that the Communist Doctrine has outlived its utility and impact and today the Soviet' people have nothing but contempt for it; and in reality the philosophy of dialetical Marxism was a baseless philosophy far from realism and today your people want a life of respect. The basic question is that after burying the coffin of communism, what will hold the federating. republics together and what will be the link to hold them with each-other?                                              ‘
        In the view of this well-wisher of you one of the best means for making the survival of the Soviet Union possible will be the sacred religion of Islam which, with its concenpt of internationalism, may well keep the Soviet Union intact. We expect that you study the political, social, economic, military and ethical pricniples of Islam for it may very well satisfy you / and if you replace Marxism with the religion of Islam as an ideology for the people of- the Soviet Union, you may be rendering the best service to your country.
     - Your aggrieved people including yourself reacted so strongly to the killing ^ of three people at the hand of the coup makers and you were justified to do so. But allow me remind you and recall to your memory, that your very tanks and , those of your puppet regime of Kabul from Tarraki to Najib have martyred hundreds of thousands of our defenseless people under worst condition, and converted our small country, which was your harmless neighbour, into a ruin. Are we not entitled to urge you to cease your protection of the Khalqi regime of our country and halt your assistance to it. For the Soviet people themselves are in the want of this assistance than the puppet regime and to stop the war in our country.
             Mr. President,                                           '
             Although Mr. Gorbachev is a man pf realism, he cannot understand the prevailing realities in Afghanistan and, therefore, he continues to offer material and political Assistance to the Kabul regime, while he should have actually earned the love of the Afghan nation and not the pleasure of the hated regime.                               -
             We urge you to lift off the fog barring the eye-sight of Mr. Gorbachev and if you are in agreement with our proposal, which I am sure your conscience accepts it, the mujaheddin representatives are ready to hold talks with you about its execution so good name is recorded for you in the history for eliminating an ign.ominous regime which has caused disgrace
   V*
  9
         JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991            MGIIIIIIJIHAD                  VOL.  4 NO.4
             to you and destruction to our nation. Otherwise the brhve people themselves , will eventually eliminate this regime.                                   1
                  Waiting for your answer
                                       Mohammad Asef Mohsani
                                       Leader of Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan

                EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the Charter of the Kabul Province Commanders Jehad. Council which has been formulated for organizing, the jehadic affairs9 elevating the combat level, consolidating harmony and joint efforts. The Charter has been published in the 29 August issue of the Neda-e-Kabul. journal# the official organ of this Shoora (In the translation of. this text the words Shoora atjd Council have been used synonimously)•
                                                      I
              We are greateful to God Almighty to have helped us succeed in the wake of the sacred and legitimate jehad to get together on this auspicious occasion and, with complete faith' and sincerity away from feelings of hegemony and arrogance, take necessary decisions in .respect to our jehad against.the atheist communists of the Russian puppet regime.
              We believe that unity and alliance will serve as a decisive blow for the annihilation of the enemy. Our thoughts have always been directed towards the establishment of an'Islamic government in Afghanistan and the well-being of the nation and fulfillment of the aspirations of our martyrs. On the one hand, political, military and economic conditions' of the mujaheddin fronts and the bitter experiences of the 13-years, of unplanned war, has been the main factor behind the continuation of communist regime in Kabul and, and on the other hand, throughout these years we have felt the need for coordinating jehad activities and preserving our unity in accordance with, the commands of Almighty GCd and teachings of the Prophet/ peace be upon him, wholeheartedly and sincerely and as a jehadic force endeavor for, the elimination of the enemy of our religion, of humanity and of defenseless people of our country. The national^ and historic character of a country like Afghanistan does not permit to keep distance from healthy thinking and ignore the valorous struggles of our fore-fathers In their confrontations with the common enemy of our religion and soil and to iemain indifferent about it.
                          Preparing a unified plan for coordination and unity among various mujaheddin forces, joint mujaheddin operations, combat effectiveness in battle .. fronts, our position from enemy lines, fighting tactic?, determining the

                                                     56
   JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              RfGIIANJIH/IQ                    VOL.  4  NO.4
   vulnerable points of the enemy defense lines, commander's commitment to his front, strength' of combat forces, arms and ammunition, deployment of fresh reinforcements, securing retreat positions and other combat and jehadic affairs constitute and meeting these obligations will greatly enhance Our efforts for defeating the enemy. We are determined to clear the capital from the filthy communists and bring about peace and tranquility with utmost discipline and to prevent selfishness of the mujaheddin commanders and other responsible individuals. Evaluation of setbacks arid prevention of political or military rivalry and taking decisive measuresagainst the enemy willbe part of duties undertaken by this council. On the whole., it should be decided by the commanders to avoid sowing the seeds of discord, bloodshed, inter-mujaheddin clashes which will not only cause losses among ourselves but will prolong the rule of the fading puppet regime which is out real and common enemy. We should unanimously and with the strength of our faith and the motto of "Allah-u-Akbar" (God is great) take steps towards the establishment of the Kabul Region Jehad Shoora so that, with the grace of God Almighty and the sacrifices of the mujaheddin* the communist rule will come to an end. The Charter of the Shoora is as follows:
                                  A. ORGANIZATION
                   ‘ ✓ '                     • .         . ' ‘
   1.   The Shoora will comprise all commanders            of the Kabul region and the
        administrative cadres.
   2.   The Shoora will include general, high level   and emergency sessions.
   3.   The Shooral will included high level sessions consisting of three command-
        ers from every district of the Kabul Province.
   4. ^ The General Shoora will include all general sessions attended by all
        commanders of the province.
   5.   The emergency sessions of the Shoora will        be convened under exceptional
        conditions and upon the instruction of             the Chairman of the Supreme
        Council.                                                *
   6.   The Shoora will heve a President who is a member of and introduced by the
        council as a candidate to the general session elected through secret ballot.                    ’
                                                                               \
   7.   In case the candidate is not approved by the General Council for the secorid time, a member of the Supreme Council will be/ directly elected by the Supreme Council as President.
   8.   Rules and regulations concerning, the duties, powers, convening of meetings
        and voting procedures will be enforced after going through the necessary procedures.                                                •
   9.   The Supreme  Council will appoint one individual as the      secretary  of its
        sessions by  a majority vote in one of its first sessions.
   10.  The Supreme  Council will appoint one person as chief of    the office  of the
                                               57
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1991  fllllllHIl lllultll              VOL. 4 NO.4
               Supreme Council with a majority vote.
          ll.i Commissions for military, religious, literary activities as well as for specialists in technical fields will be estalblished.
                                        B. MILITARY AFFAIRS
               We, commanders of this Shoora have resolved to unite resolutely for attaining the following/.vital issues::
          1.   The continuation Of the military jehad against infidelity and atheisim as well as the coramiinist Kabul government until the toppling of this puppet regime set be aliens, and establishment of an Islamic government chosen by the mujaheddin, refugees and Muslim people of Afghanistan.
                   . -                    ‘     .                     ‘                  f
          2.   Consolidation of complete unity among jehad fronts based on the principles of the sacred religion of Islam and Islamic spirit.
          3.   Mobilization o'f all jehad forces for undertaking coordinated military
               operations on enemy military sites on the bases of prior decisions of the Shoora.                                                   -
          4.   Prevention of randum operations and scattered and ineffective operations.
          5.   Raising the standard of fighting by making use of better tactics■against the. enemy.
          6.   Development and strengthening of the spirit of complete cooperation and jehadic fraternity among the fronts.
          7.   Prevention of embezzlement of the financial resources and military supplies of the mujaheddin and security of the supply routes.
          8.   Prevention of dissention and inter-fighting specially among the mujaheddin of different fronts.
                                   •               ■          ■         i      • .
                                        C.POLITICAL AFFAIRS
               Pili cies. pursued by this Council are based on the Mohammadi Shariat and are detailed as follows:
               FOREIGN POLICY:
          1.   Fraternity and equality with all Muslims of the world.
          2.   Defending the rights of all Muslims of the world.
          3.   Defending t/he Muslim countries and nations living under colonialism.
          4.   Defending human rights and the rights of the -under-priviledged peoples of
               the world.                      .1
                                                        58
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         WfilWNJIW1II               VOL- 4  NO.4
  5. Establishing o,f friendly relations with all countries of the world             
     specially those countries which have cooperated with the mujaheddin during      
     the Afghan jehad.' ,                                                            
     * , - V                                                                         
  6. Rightful and legitimate animosity with Russian communists, the number one %•    
     enemy of the mujaheddin and of our country.                                     
  7. Animosity with the followers of communism and Zionism. ^                        
  8. Rejecting any political deal which will entail the participation of Najib       
     and his communist party. ^                                                      
  9. Rejecting of, any government with the participation of the Najib regime and     
     other leftist groups. , *'                                                      
 10. Rejecting any decision adopted in the absence of true and effective repre¬      
     sentative of the jehad.                                                         
 11. Rejecting all kinds of policies of foreign countries in regard.to Afghariis-    
     tan which is against the national, Islamic and international interests of       
     our people. '                                                                   
     D. DOMESTIC POLICIES                                                            
  1. Fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of the martyrs of truth and freedom of     
     our country.                                                                    
  2. Establishing educational, health, reconstruction and administrative             
     organizations in the mujaheddin-cpntrolled and liberated areas.                 
, 3. Caring for phe people of the liberated areas through administrative organs*.    
  4. Helping the survivals of the jehad martyrs.                                     
. 5. Securing friendly and brotherly relations among all the mujaheddin, »,          
     specially among the mujaheddin of the Kabul Province Mujaheddin Council.        
  6. Implementing' the decisions and orders’ of the jehad Council of the Kabul       
     Province. ,                                                                     
  7. Preventing recklessness, looting, robberies and other' non-rlslamic deeds       
     through administrative measures.                                                
  8. Preventing religious, regional, linguistic and “other prejudicers which         
     cause dissention and disunity. '                                                
  9. Fulfilling of the right of .self-determination of our nation on, the basis of A 
     Jslamic principles. r\                                                          
 10. FuJ.filling the security and protecting the honors, of ^the people of KabuL ^   
59
VOL. 4 NO.4
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991     WflllJlN JIHAD
               city and its vicinities and guarging of public properties, historical sites and relics at all times but especially after the liberation of the capital city.
                                         E. ECONOMIC POLICY
          1.   Soliciting arid accepting the cooperation extended by humanitarian organizations in the field of social services.
          2.   Soliciting and accepting of the cooperation of friendly countries with no strings attached both through the concerned mujaheddin organizations and directly.
          3.   Collecting public contributions according to the principles of the Mohammadi Shariat.
60
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991       AfGHAN JIHAD                 VOL.4 NO.4
         AFGHAN
     RECONSTRUCTION,
     REHABILITATION
61
    july-slim lmiiem, 1991 AllillllN J[IIAO VOL. NO.
       WUFA HOLDS FORUM ON UN PLAN FOR AFGHANISTAN,smmk
               THE INAUGURAL ADDRESS OF PROFESSOR RASOOL AMIN THE PRESIDENT OF WUFA: It is
          clear to one and all that during the recent years world and regional situation has undergone many kinds of changes. The bitter experiences of the past decades demonstrate that destructive and deadly wars are no solution to problems and troubles but the solution lies in peaceful understanding.. The UN is exerting efforts now for the political resolution of long standing regional problems.
               The UN efforts and those of other countries prove that Afghanistan is not an isolated issue but is correlated with regional and world problems, it is due to this that there has been an increased interest at regional and world level for the resolution of the Afghanistan problem.
                    •              i
               The UN Secretary General's latest proposal has also been inspired by these gestures and is presented to the Afghan people and the world under the assumption that the fate of our people and nation has acquired great importance.
               The WUFA, being an independent academic, cultural and research organization has convened today's seminar with a view to discuss the UN Secretary General's 5-point plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
               The overwhelming majority of the Afghan people want to establish an Islamic government of independent non-aligned Afghanistan with complete territorial integrity and sovereignty. Likewise, the whole Afghan nation, including the jehad forces and refugees, consider the dismissal of Kabul regime and its replacement by a political regime acceptable to bne and all, as the first condition towards the resolution of the Afghanistan problem. The UN Secetary General's 5-point plan has evoked various impressions among the people of Afghanistan in as much as some have termed it as useful, another called it ambiguous and ineffective, some others have emphasized its positive points and yet some have asked for amendments and clarification of some of its aspects.
               We have convened this seminar so that the important points of UN Secretary
                                                      62
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            MilllMI J[W10                      VOL.  4 NO.4
      General's proposal may be discussed and also an independent_ and impartial judgement passed regarding these proposals. The aim of this seminar is ‘to harmonize the opinions of the Afghans and bring about an understanding and proximity of views in regard to the Afghanistan problem.
               ABDUL RAHMAN PAZHWAK, FORMERLY AFGHAN .CHIEF DELEGATE TO UN, GENERAL ASSEMBLY PRESIDENT
           It has been asked whether the UN Secretary General's 5-point plan was acceptable or not?. In my opinion     the answer to this query               is that this
      proposal presently, as it is in words,terms and expression, is not acceptable but it can be amended and then in the amended form it could be acceptable.
           I will offer    a few instances: The            Secretary General has  pointed out a
      number of principles which he has got together but all the necessary principles which ought to have been there are not there and certain inapplicable things to the principles are there , i.e., there, are certain shortcomings which have to be met    and there are certain additions which ought to be omitted. As an example:
      the     point speaks about  political independence,              Islam and non-alignment,
      territorial integrity and self-determination. I want to say that non-alignment has been included in these principles; whereas non-alignment is a policy adopted by the people themselves. In other words, an elected and legal government; on behalf of its people will decide whether to remain neutral or otherwise.
           Another thing , is this: there used to be two military pacts in the world;
      the Warsaw and NATO pacts. Countries which did not want to take sides militarily, coined the term non-alignment movement for themselves. As of now, the Warsaw Pact has, been dissolved completely and changes have been brought about in the nature of NATO Pact also; as such, presently no pure military pact exists and it is being slowly transformed. Therefore the issue of non-alignment, as of now, seems far from reality. I opine that the requisite principles should be accommodated and that is the principle of "national unity" which ought to be added.
           The issue of "self-determination" also needs to be considered. Self-determination is a human right mentioned in "Human Rights Declaration". Mj proposal is that "self-determination" is a 'right' not only a "principle".
           Regarding the reconstruction of Afghanistan:     In Pashtu  text  the          word,
      "recommendation" has been used but in English text, which is rather ambiguous it boils down to "expediency". I say that "expediency" ought to be amended to "requirement" because the reconstruction of Afghanistan is not a matter of expediency but is a requirement.
           When all is said and done I briefly say that UN Secretary General's proposal should not be rejected but ought to be amended and after amendments, it should be accepted. Such kind of acceptance should not be taken as a point of weakness but from a point of strength i.e. jehad should continue and struggle should be on and when we are strong, then talks should be held. Talkfe should be held with authoritative sides which are the Russians. The Kabul regime has no authority.
                                                   63
JULY-5EPTEMBER , 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
           -SAYYED ISHAQ GAILANI ,                        *
        The UN-Secretary General's 5-point proposal presented during his speech 21 May, 1991, which explains five general principles for political solution of Afghanistan problem, can really constitute a frame or basis of a plan for political and diplomatic resolution of the Afghanistan problem.
             The overwhelming majority of the Afghan nation is favoring a political solution and quick restoration of peace in their war-torn Country. The UN Secretary General's 5-point plan has virtually provided the freedom and peace-loving people of Afghanistan with a ray of hope.      ,
                                                                                     9 f
             Uptil now the people of Afghanistan are deprived of a trusted leadership. Therefore no single individual, party:or parties, have the right to represent the Afghan nation in regard to the settlement of the Afghanistan issue. Needless to say that the presence of political parties is a fact (reality) but the presence and authority of the nation is higher to that reality since the right of self-determination is the undeniable right of, the Afghan nation.
             Regarding the UN Secretary General's 5-point proposal,, there are two very significant items which need attention. First is the exclusive right of the Afghans to select a government of their own.choice and determine their political and economic system without foreign interference and use of force. Secondly the* need for a transitional period, the details of which may be • slashed out during discussions among the Afghans, or an agreement may have been reached, so that it may lead to the establishment of a broad-based government.
             Observers and political analysts are of the opinion that, no political settlement of the Afghan issue can be possible without a dialogue and discussion between the warring sides and that is why in the UN 5-point proposal, mention has" been made regarding the necessity of inter-Afghan dialogue and discussions. Likewise political analysts of the Afghanistan situation opine that the presence of the rilling Watan Party cannot be ignored by the UN since it has recognized ,the Kabul regime and the regime has its permanent delegate therein.
             Political observers are of the opinion that sheer insistance on the dismissal and seclusion of Dr. Najib without presentation of a new, logical acceptable, ^nd reliable plan, as' his substitute, a political solution to the Afghanistan problem cannot be'possible.
             Howsoever, in regard to the UN Secretary General's 5-point proposal, if there is the formation of a broad-based government, during the interim period, comprising the jehad organizations and Kabul regime patronized by an independent and reliable person like the ex-King of Afghanistan, I personally, agree to it. However, practically this kind of process seems difficult since it raises the issue of the involvement of Kabul regime in a coalition government, the agreement regarding which, will not be an easy job. A good, numbef of the Afghans and I opine that it will be preferable if independent Afghan political and social personalities, having no connections with the warring factions, form the interim government and they must be endowed with the. requisite power -and authority to pave the way for free, direct, secret and just elections.
                                                    64
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
supervised by UN and OIC. I think this to be the only acceptable way.of solution for the majority of the Afghan people.
             Considering the changes in the traits of international relations, the Afghans must take up the UN Secretary General 5-point proposal in right earnest so that a quick way of political solution to the Afghanistan problem can be found.
               MOHAMMED ALI OAVED, FROM THE COALITION COUNCIL
               The first question is which one is reasonable generally for the revolution: a military solution or a political one?
             In response to this question I can say that of course the best and the fair alternative is a military solution. Only those people decide on the military way who want to win. Those who have shed blood, toiled, suffered and drove the enemy from their country under pressure will decide upon what is feasible for their revolution, the future of their nation and their system and regime. No one can ask for any privileges and no other'country can interfere. No one country's interests are involved here. In the military solution it is only the victorious mujaheddin who ought to consider the interests of their people and their revolution, and in case they maintain any relationship with a country or the world, they have their own interests at heart. As such, from our point of view, the best and' prettiest alternative is a military solution.
             If this way    fails                           and turns inclusive, then what? Then there is  no
        alternative other   than, a political.                        A person who is dying out of hunger can
        avail himself of wholesome food only’in case clean, tasty and wholesome food is not available. This is done to save his life. Today, the world and countries concerned with the  Aghan issue are trying to find a solution   to this problem                   and
        when I talk about   other                        countries, I do not mean that they have refrained from
        interference in the Afghan affairs.
                                                       v    ■ .
             When we say that we are offering a point of view regarding the UN peace plan, it does not imply that we are no entity and the UN decides for us. We should find out what the UN has actually said? Why at all we fought for 13 long years? We fought for freedom, Islamic identity and self-determination. We fought for an independent Afghanistan, for self-determination and for having our fate in our hands. We fought for these issues and the UN has said it. The stoppage of assistance by the donor countries or the return of refugees do not concern us. The donors assist, as long as they wish and when they don't wish it, they will stop it. Whatever is the subject of discussion, for us, is the third article and its sections:                            dialogue and cease-fire and a broad-based interim
        government.                            .                -
             Political parleys are not carried out from the position of strength
        i.e. serious military stand-point, we are sure, that neither the Russians and Najib nor the UN will allow us any privilege. We can have privileges if we are powerful. We should not take our military dimension lightly., We ought to strengthen our military dimension, so that .during the political parleys we can deal from the position of strength and gain the privilege. From political point
                                                    65
         JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             HHlllllNJlHftfl _______________  VOL.  4 NO.4
         of view we should not be equally power-juxtaposed in future, because in Afghanistan power equality (symmetry) is dangerous and in that case no peace will come to Afghanistan.         *
              The topic of the 3rd article is "talks". From our point of view eiXering into talks with the Kabul regime and the establishment of a joint government
         with it is meaningless. International conventions also say: Those who are overtly corrupt and are committing crimes and treachery are ineligible for a ministry. As such a party which sold out its country's independence and a party and <alement which slaughtered more than 1.5 million human beings, a party which serves as a servant and foreign agent, how can it share the future of Afghanistan.
              From our point of view some of the items in the UN' plan need not be discussed because they are our exclusive and recognized rights and we have waged our jehad on that basis. Presently the time is not ripe for some of the clauses’ and some do not concern us; only its 3rd clause must be discussed. We have said in our meetings that in the military field we have done well but unfortunately in the political field we are weak.
               MOHAMMAD AMIN FEROTAN, MANAGING EDITOR OF WEEKLY KAUSAR: 1
               In my opinion it is only the invaluable Islamic ideology which can guarantee life and future of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and the future of the country as an independent, honorable, proud country enjoying a good status. No other ideology, no other way of thinking or move can guarantee the freedom movement of Afghanistan.
              The UN plan has been declared under painful conditions and circumstances of the world. Prior to discussing its acceptance or non-acceptance and the contents and text of this plan, I want to say that it would have been much better if we ourselves could have presented a plan and the world would have discussed and i analyzed it and the interested parties to the Afghanistan situation would have been invited to it. Unfortunately internal situation was of such a nature that practical steps were taken to weaken the AIG formed two years ago according to the decisions of an advisory council. Owing to two factors and reasons, the AIG remained a government by name only. It is certain that during this period we tiave had shortcomings: we could not brief the world that the Muslim mujaheddin of Afghanistan do not want war for the sake of war but for peace; and what kind of peace? Not peace as a form or symbol, not such peace that sometimes the West explains it to us
              If any one opine or think that an unacceptable plan to the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and the mujaheddin of Afghanistan would be implemented under any name or under any title, and peace would return to that land, I believe, they are sadly mistaken.
              Considering the fact* that the Muslim mujaheddin of Afghanistan should be the vanguards and pioneers of political and military or any other movement in pur society, those who. are trying and struggling to deprive the Muslim Mujaheddin of Afghanistan from their rightful status and place that they occupy
                                                    66
       JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991______________1116111111 JIHAD________________ VOL. A -HO.4
       in the Afghan history or try to negate the pioneering role of this proud roujahed force, they are making fun of their own history and that of their nation.
            The UN  Secretary General's plan is a bargain in which several commodities
       e.g.  a*pair  of old shoes with a new video camera and a                       couple of other old and
       new articles are presented collectively in a bag. This bag or packet is tightly closed. Now, the question arises whether the UN wants the deal to be carried out? Are these five articles to be purchased collectively? If the aim is to buy the good article along with a bad one, such a deal is unjustified and if the deal allows us to express our opinion regarding the commodities and we can purchase the good article and argue about the bad one, then it is O.K. But if it is stipulated that we have to purchase all the five articles collectively, irespective of their bad quality, this kind of deal will be detrimental to the interests of the Muslim Afghan nation.
            If the    mujaheddin can present a                         realistic plan, without power monoply,
       based on the idea of government as a trust with a view to alleviate problems of Afghanistan, and if the mujaheddin could convince social and political forces in regard to their leadership and pioneering role and discuss their rights logically, fairly and conveniently,  we   are sure, with  accepting the positive
       points of UN plan, we can open up a bridge for any other plan for realizing the aims of our jehad and sacred Islamic revolution.
            PROFESSOR SEBGHATULLAH rfUJADDEDI, PRESIDENT OF THE AIG
            I do do not have much to say in particular; however I will explain certain topics which seen to be imnportant to that since we all are living on this earthen globe, and,as a matter of common sense and experience* we cannot live totally isolated and completely cut-off from the rest of the world; and there are various races, ideas, languages with different ideologies which cannot be denied; Notwithstanding all these differences, human beings are living together. The bloody Soviet aggression against the free and Muslim people of Afghanistan and their 13-years of jehad raised hue arid cry in the world. Many UN resolutions against the Russian aggression and in favor of Afghan mujaheddin were passed. The UN resolutions called on Russia to withdraw from Afghanistan, and the sooner the better.
            Owing to our just jehad coupled with our heroism and bravery, the Russians facing an' ignominious defeat, had to leave Afghanistan. Now the world is not paying due attention to the Afghanistan issue, although I don't believe that the Russians have completely left Afghanistan, since they are continuously providing the Kabul regime with massive military assistance and the blood of innocent Afghans are still being spilt. The Afghan mujaheddin and millions of Afghan refugees are living in very bad conditions. Now we are no longer being assisted as in the past. During the 13-years jehad of ours, many Muslem brethren made all kinds of sacrifices and this also cannot be denied that the interferences of some of our brethren for their own personal interests, are still continuing, and even some of our Arab brethren are meddling to eliminate the Afghan Hanafi religion, practised by the majority in Afghanistan or the Shia faith and replace them forcibly by their own religion. Likewise there are interference of some Pakistani brethren. The Pakistan Government, Saudi Arabia and some other Islamic and nori-Islamic countries want to propagate their own ideology in Afghanistan.
                                               67
           JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        ' - ' WGIttB JIHAfl -                 VOL. 4 NO.4
                This shpuld be acknowledged that inside Afghanistan there is complete solidarity among the mujaheddin; unfortunately in Peshawar there is no unity and solidarity among the Afghan organizations; such a ' unity as required by the Afgans and the world does not exist.
         i                   i    '              •         *     »;               . •
                In order that our beloved country, Afghanistan gains its freedom and Islamic status we have to compromise and restrain ourselves to a great extent. A good proposal, whether by the UN or any other source which may achieve our freedom and^ Islamic identity should be accepted, even if it came from the enemy's side. In case a proposal has positive and negative aspects then the positive ones may be taken and the negative dropped. The UN 5-point proposal for the solution^of Afghanistan problem contains some positive points which we favor and there are soi^ie vague points too which ought to be clarified. For example, the proposal speaks of "inter-Afghan dialogue" which implies that parleys with Najib and his party may be held. If dialogue with Najib is axcOndition, then we do not accept - it, because Najib and his henchmen have been very cruel with our nation, they have martyred millions of the Afghans and have turned Afghanistan into rubbles. If we Sit . with Najib for talks, it would mean that we • havb recognized him officially.                                                                      '
                JUDGE MOHAMMAD AMIN WEQAD, THE CHIEF OF THE ISLAMIC UNITY OF AFGHANISTAN
                The UN plan has =been accepted by some of jehad organizations collectively and some have rejected it in to to and some personalities have pros and cons on the subject. I fall in* the category of those who have rejected the plan decisively but this rejection of the plan does not mean that we are not bound by the UN resolutions or unrelated to its membership or we do not' respect it. We capnot reject the entire UN and ignore its resolutions and membership. The Afghanistan that you and we want will be member of the UN, member of non-aligned nations and member of the OIC. I say one. who rejects or accepts something, must have grounds for the rejection or acceptance. Why we have to reject the plan? Because we  differ with   the system now in power in    Afghanistan and we have,
           grounds for the difference since the regime has been imposed by Russians- upon us. Similarly in the case of the UN, our membership in it and pur respect to it . notwithstanding, the basic objective of our jehad and the interest of our people calls for the achievement of .Self-determination and the fact that our jehad should bring us closer to the establishment of an Islamic government. Whereas uptil now the puppet Soviet regime still remains in Afghanistan and rules the capital and major towns and 1/3 of the nation have turned into immigrants. The mujaheddin   war against   the regime is still raging       and a great number of
           organizations has cropped up here. It is my personal opinion that the Muslim neighbouring countries should cooperate with us for the achievement of our self-determination since these countries are sanctuaries for immigration and constitute  centers for   our military, cultural and political activities. In
           case these neighbouring countries lag behind on the issue of our self-determination, then the UN will determine our fate.
                Regarding the UN 5-point plan, it must be said that we should have the initiative because the Afghanistan issue is our issue and the UN has no right to deprive  the nations  from their initiative and the  UN should cooperate with
           countries in regard to their initiatives. We say this, whosoever it maybe.
                                                        68
     juLy-September. 1991 AIGIIANJIHAfl                      vol. 4 no.4
     whether it is the UN, the Islamic countries, non-Islamic, etc:     they should not
     deprive us of our initiatives.
          The entire objectives of the Afghanistan jehad bespeak of the fact that it should be the right of the Afghan people themselve to determine their affairs, choose their government "and way - of life. We tell the UN that we are Afghans and the Afghans are never ungrateful regarding a good turn or kindness shown to them from any quarter. They will never forget the UN support of the Afghans against the Russians. Praise to God Almighty that our nation whi'ch has confronted every aggressor, is endowed with a proud history, has its^ own distinguished personalities and culture. What we need is unity and solidarity. We want the names of the organizations to be scrapped and replaced by one order and one ■leader. Unity is the right of our nation. Whosoever imposes his will on the people and tries to overrun and bully others by force utilizes the policy of force and pressure and he ought to be stopped.
     IBRAHIM HAMED MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF ACADEMIC ADVISORS, RESEARCH COUNCIL
     The UN 5-point plan is more accomodating to the Soviets and Kabul regime interests (than the mujaheddin). Now in order to trash it minutely, it is being discussed clause-wise one by one.
     (1)  The plan in its first clause speaks of the necessity of sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence whereas having political independence and its protection are not things that the Afghan nation need but they are the recognized and inalienable rights of this nation. The identification of necessity or no necessity for the Afghan nation’s sovereignty, as per UN Charter, are the exclusive privileges of the Afghan nation itself not others.
     (2)  The word "preserving" will carry weight when the existence of something is
          being discussed; therefore the mention of the "preserving of sovereignty" in the first clause applies to the present Kabul regime; because it is this regime which ostensibly diaims sovereignty and is illegally having official and political missions in the UN and other countries of the world not the mujaheddin.           . >                  '                       '
     (3)  The expression of the maintenanqe of non-aligned and Islamic identity of Afghanistan is vague. Afghanistan is even now an Islamic country and even the regime, ostensibly, does not come in the way of people performing Islamic rituals; as such presently Afghanistan, apparently, is endowed with Islamic identity and status. Likewise political independence, and the Afghan nation, as mentioned in this clause, cannot prove to be the sole cure for pains and troubles; political independence is available when there is independence in all sectors i.e. economic, cultural, etc. Therefore this sort of half-done political independence is no cure for the' pain and ailments of our nation. According to what is written, the first clause of the UN plan as vetted and discussed may remain as it is.
          (a) The maintenance of sovereignty's right, territorial integrity, total independence and the non-aligned Islamic identity of Afghanistan.
          COMMENTS ON AND EVALUATION OF THE SECOND CLAUSE:     "The  recognition of the
                                              69
         JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991        MMJOIIIfl                   VOL. 4 NO.4
           right of .the Afghan peopel" whose details as discussed take into account the communists also; whereas considering their 13 years of treachery and crimes, by, no means, they are entitled to have a way in self-determination or administrative affairs of Afghanistan; they have been given rights in this plan, dexterously. As such the word ''Afghan'1 does not necessarily include each and every Afghan including the communists and other leftist and puppet elements. Thus addition of the word Muslim to Afghan is compulsory and necessary. In other words, it is only the Muslim Afghan who has the right of vote and opinion in self-determination, order and the Afghan government. The UN plan second clause may be accepted in this form.
                Recognition of the right of the Muslim Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system free from outside intervention, subversion and coersion or constraint of any ^ kind whatsoever.
                COMMENTS AND EVALUATION OF THE THIRD CLAUSE: There is no doubt that,after the collapse of present political order due to dissents, national and religious differences, transitory arrangements are being introduced in the framework of interim government, revolutionary council, etc., but there is also no doubt that, after the fall of the present Kabul government the transitory government or post-interim-government, the coalition government will not be with the communists but only those who serve the interests of mujaheddin and support the cause of\ the Muslim Afghan nation will have the right of membership and participation in that government.
                The term "inter-Afghan" used, every now and then, by Najib regime implies a dialogue between mujaheddin and the Kabul regime, if the dialogue is aimed at the surrender of the communists then such a dialogue between mujaheddin and the Kabul regime will be meaningful but if the dialogue is meant to discuss political issues and the allotment of a front or side for the communists, in that case such a dialogue will not be possible; because legally from the point of view of Shariat, Najib is a criminal and Watan Party, too, as a treacherous party to the Muslim nation arid Afghanistan, have no right of relationship with mujaheddin and Afghanistan.                                                     •-
                Part A of the Plan speaks about "The establishment of a credible and impartia transition mechanism with appropriate powers and authority. In case "impartial" means Afghans who are not members of jehad organizations and, due ..to some reasons, have not directly served in jehad; and the impartial government, as proposed by the UN, is administered by them, and the' activities of this government are also impartial, in that casa the subject can be studied and discussed. But if "impartial" comprises non-party communists and other personnel of non-Islamic groups, then there is room for rejection of the proposal.
                Likewise there is no room for the word "broad-based" in elections because if a majority wins the election and minorities could not win then how could the future government be broad-based.                                      1
                      . ' . . • ‘ *' . \:
                The term "Afghan traditions" is also used in part A. Naturally the object
                                                    70
 r
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              MGIMN JMjlfl,                    VOL. 4  NO. 4
      from "Afghan traditions" is to convene Loya Jirga (Grand Assembly) and the revival of the old political traditions of the previous weak regimes. In case-13 years of jehad cannot bring changes in the political structure and to the advantage of the Muslim nation in the society, then what is the use of all • these sacrifices, losses and jehad?
           Similarly part A speaks of "free and fair elections". If really the UN aim ftom "free and fair elections" is that the Muslim people of. Afghanistan can participate in free and fair elections, without rigging and pressure. Such free elections will be endorsed by our Muslim nation. But if free elections imply that the communists are also entitled to rights and privileges therein, then such elections will not be supported.                         -  * '
      PART B: ■ Naturally with the establishment of an interim government and a cabinet and the fall of the communist regime,, military operations, vfill, no longer, be necessary and as such the army and the entire armed forces will be Under the command of that transitory government under1 these conditions; therefore this part is not required in the third clause.
      PART C:   This topic needs no fore-telling or prior decision and is related to
      interim government which will by itself adopt measures and take appropriate steps, as and when required. Therefore this clause is also scrapped.
           Considering the afore-mentioned topics, the 3rd clause amended form will run as follows:
      3.   The need for a transition period details of this can be worked out in an inter-Afghan dialogue- excluding the Watan Party and other un-Islamic "elements- leading to the establishment of a government supported by the majirty of the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
      PART A: During the same period the establishment of a transitory administration acceptable to the majority of the Afghans, including the establishment of a credible authoritative interim government (which will be determined laterjis needed. This administration should also be able to assure the Muslim people of Afghanistan that will have thte opportunity to participate in election taking into consideration the Islamic identity of Afghanistan and this will pave the v?ay for  the establishment of an elected     Islamic government to succeed   the
      present Kabul regime.
      COMMENT'S AND EVALUATION OF THE FOURTH   CLAUSE:     This clause, possibly    and
      probably, may remain credible and be discussed under such conditions that the Kabul regime remain intact as also the mujaheddin as the genuine side to the case; and since during the transitory period the present Kabul regime stands dismissed and the, interim government, supported by the mujaheddin, will be solely and wholly in power and authoritative, as such arming both sides will.be meaningless and all the affairs will             fall within the domain of    the
      responsibility of the interim government and then the need for fourth clause too will not be felt.
      COMMENTS  AND EVALUATION OF FIFTH CLAUSE:      . If any peron or organization is
                                                             73
         JULY-SEPTEMBER; 1991             WTlIlflN JIHAO                    VOL. 4 NO.4
         expected to dffer assistance     in the  reconstruction  of Afghanistan, it   is
         unnecessary that the source of assistance be formally recognized, because if the house is on fire or a hungry is to be fed, it is not necessary that primarily the first aid people be recognized and then granted permission to assist. The UN fifth clause is not needed and its mission is preferable.
              It ought to be pointed out that the UN 5-point plan has left out a most important and basic thing,       being    recognized by  international law   and
         conventions, i.e. the compensation of war losses and reparations of damages which the Afghan nation and country have suffered in the wake of 13 years of war. There are more than 1.5 million Afghans* dead, hundreds of thousand inoapacited, disabled and wounded          coupled with  immunerable cases    of
         psychological patients. There    are cities, towns and   villages demolished and
         razed to the ground fields and cultivated lands turned into rubles. All this for a country like Afghanistan which ha.s been underdeveloped with the - lowest level of economic resources and revenue, is irreparable and according to the international law, the Soviets are found to make good the losses and damages and the Afghan nation will fight for the attainment of this right. Therefore this topic must be discussed in the UN plan as a separate clause.
              CONCLUSION                                             '
              Following UN.plan analysis and discussion, it must be acknowledged that the UN plan is entirely imperialistic and is tailored according to the wishes of super powers, particularly that of the Soviets. Therefore it cannot relieve the Afghans from their troubles or remove their difficulties and cannot lead the country towards peace and reconciliation. Although as a whole the UN 5-poinf plan is rejected and has to be rejected but after the amendments made in this analysis it may be discussed and considered.                       *
              COMMANDER HAJI ABDUL HAQ
              Why the Afghans started the jehad? Why the entire Afghan nation stood up, took up arms and sacrificed themselves so much? What was the object? There were three objectives to these i.e. uprising, jehad and sacrifices:
         1.   There was foreign interference in this country and that was committed by
              the Russians, the Russians were to be pushed out.
         2.   The Russians and the Communist puppet regime ought to be defeated in this
              country.             ...
         3.   The Communist regime must be replaced by an Islamic independent government.
              It was with these objectives in mind that the Afghan nation suffered more than 1.5 million martyrs and the same number was disabled and up to 70% of the . country has turned into rubbles.
              When we study the UN plan, we find that it can be considered to some extent. In fact the Russians and their puppets have been very cruel with our natioji, they have martyred millions of human beings. Our case is not so simple,
                                                 72
 /
       july-tSeptember, 1991           HUiiihH illnllu                  vol. 4 no.4
       it is not a case between two persons or two families which may be over land, cultivation or agriculture. In the current war and the Afghan jehad, the blood ot millions has been spilt* When the UN resolutions are studied it seems that the past doings are clean forgotten and buried: Therefore let us start from the scratch, let us initiate a new order and march into a new Afghanistan. This point has been ignored that this country has lost 1.5 million as martyres. Millions have been incapacitated and more than five millions have turned, immigrants. Afghanistan has no population like China or India that the number of martyrs, disabled and refugees be ignored and dropped out. In case.the UN does not consider these points, trouble and difficulties, and tell the mujaheddin to cease fire, I don't think .that the mujaheddin will lay their arms on the ground nor the Najib regime will easily lay their arms. I believe that in the current problem of Afghanistan the scholars, elders and the public have an important role to play. During difficult times it used to be the ulama who would pass the verdict to wage jehad and holy war. The leaders of the nation wCuld arm the youth and guide them to the holy war and thus leave a sigh of relief. It was due to the blessings of those three objectives that jehad will culminate in victory and a peaceful order would prevail.
            Afghanistan's misfortune started with the communist coup deta't and with that Afghanistan national order collapsed, the ulama, national leaders and intellectuals have been jailed and most of them were martyred. The Russians found the disintegration vof the national order to their advantage and most suitable for trespass and invasion. They thought that with the ulama, elders and patriots languishing in jails, tortured or killed, no one will be left to thwart the aggression. But their appreciation of the situation was based on miscalculations because when they committed the aggression, the entire Afghan nation stood up and offered themselves • for sacrifices, took up arms but even so disorder prevailed, 50-60 parties were formed. Actually external as well as internal factors have contributed to the 12-13 years of jehad. Along with that the factor of parties i.e. the creation of 1 5-8 alliances, coalitions and governments also contributed to this..
            Notwithstanding the sacrifices of our heroic nation which stunned the entire world, and the majority of the world community, in the shape of aid to mujaheddin, assisted uS and even sent us garlands, but unfortunately the mujaheddin are fighting among themselves, some call the mujaheddin powder merchants and some brand them as smugglers and Muslim killers.
            One can see Najib who comes out spick and span dressed in' a new suit of clothes, talks flatteringly and accepts the UN resolutions as well and thus diverts the people's attention? !this is all due to disunity among the leaders, otherwise it would not have been as it is so. Our nation is pious, heroic and mujahed. They have, empty handed crippled the monster. There is no fault of the nation, the fault is with a limited number of persons who are insensitive to the pain of the nation. Now that the UN has come out with a plan. I say that as long as our people themselves do not come to a decision among themselves even if the UN issue one hundred resolutions, those cannot heal up our wounds.
          ' ENGINEER ABDUL RAHIM CHIEF OF WAFA:
            The UN is saturated with efforts and proposals. The mujaheddin, Should
                                                     73
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             AIGIIANJ[UflO                   VOL.  4 NO.4
       •take advantage of the opportunity and a group should be appointed in this connection to discuss all the plans offered for solving the issue. The UN is an organization where you come across delegates from the world over? mujaheddin's representatives should be present in New York so that, with the cooperation of experts, . see the affairs through and find a way out to apprise the world regarding the wishes of the Afghan people and attain their support.
            The other topic is the creation of an interim period and that of a permanent government. While establishing a government mostly four, points have to be considered. In organizational matters, justice ought to be taken into consideration. National unity must be considered. The government must be strong because a weak government cannot take care and guide the affairs of a totally demolished country and certainly 'no other government, except an Islamic one, can guarantee the unity, social justice, strength and stability of Afghanistan. As such, the fundamental condition is that of the establishment of an Islamic government. But during ' the interim period, prior to the achievement of such a government, if mujaheddin could not form such a government collectively, through military and political efforts, a broad-based government could be formed, through a period with the UN assistance, Islamic countries and countries which have helped the mujaheddin during their jehad. After the creation of an interim government elections could be held.                                      ,
            MOHAMMAD HAKIM ARYUBI FORMERLY THE AFGHAN CONSUL IN KARACHI
            After the ouster of the Russian occupant forces, the governments which supported the Afghans like the US, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan depended solely on the military solution but slowly it dawned on them that the regime was resisting. Their resistance, however, was not due to a strength but because the mujaheddin had weakened themselves through their inter-party differences. It is clear that the mujaheddin are not only disunited but in order to achieve power, they are pitched against each other in armed battles. The conclusion was that the Najib regime remained intact and the Mujaheddin are busy fighting each other. This- situation is still continuing and calls for a political solution. The international community has started losing its patience with the prolongation of this long drawn war. The friends of Afghanistan have decided to
       stop or cut down military and financial assistance* On the other hand, the
                                            *
       war tired Afghans, too, support a political solution and are happy regarding the UN 5-point plan. The UN 5-point plan is a general framework for parleys and political solution and should not be taken as a recipe which cannot be ammended. In the five point plan the disputed point is the inter-Afghan dialogue. Leaders of all organizations are opposing dialogue with Najib. Actually the point is that it is only through negotiations that power can be transferred and, in order to carry on a dialogue with the Kabul regime, an acceptable formula must be found out. It could be that with Watan Party, dialogue can take place >not as a ruling party, but as political party or, for that matter, talks could be held with those whose hands are not smeafed with the Afghans' blood. It would also be possible to hold talks through the UN mediation.
            The Tehran and Peshawar based mujaheddin leaders insist that Najib should transfer his political power. The question is to whom political power should be
                                                     74
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              WUHANiHHAO                       VOL.  4 NO.4
            _ 1 ____________;__■________ L__________l.;.                           _ _ .
        transferred? The transfer of political power requires two processes; first, political, second military. The process of the transfer of political power is done through negotiations. The other alternative is to transfer political power through military process . This process continues from the time of *the withdrawal of the Soviet occupation forces until now but the Kabul regime is still in place. The UN Secretary General and other persons, who are acquainted with the facts of the Afghanistan circumstances, opine that the only solution to the Afghan problem is the political solution.
             The two sides are equally power-balanced and one side cannot impose a military solution on the other. On the other hand the continuity of the current situation is detrimental to Afghanistan because more blood is being spilt. Economically, too, the country is weakened. Furthermore, villages, townships and cities are. demolished, national wealth and natural sources are looted and ransacked and the fofests of Afghanistan are mercilessly cut down and annihilated. Valuable mines and expensive Stones are being transferred by private parties to foreign markets and sold out and the foreign exchange goes to Pakistan. According to knowledgeable sources in the Northern provinces of Afghanistan a commander is busy smuggling expensive stones worth millions of rupees. Under such deplorable conditions, the need for a political solution is urgent, and the UN Secretary General ;5-point plap offers a good basis for the political solution.                                       ^                    ,
             The UN plan inter alia points to a transitory period which is disputable ambng the Afghans. It seems that during the transitory period the creation of a broad-based government is being considered but the idea of a coalition government with Najib has been rejected by Tehran ‘and Peshawar based organizations. Likewise the organizations demand for the transfer of power from Najib to the mujaheddin groups has been turned down by Kabul regime and the Soviet Union. Therefore, the only plan that can be acceptable to the warring sides is the creation of an authoritative powerful interim pvernment, during the transitory period, with the help of independent political and social figures,' so that ground for holding of independent arid impartial elections may \be laid out. Accordirig to my opinion and that of many Afghans, this ,is the only alternative which can be accepted and the majority wili accept it. The Afghans, living in exile as also the mujaheddin inside Afghanistan, are running short of' time to save their homeland, without outside meddling through the UN 5-point plan and resolve their problems. Maybe, this is the last opportunity for the political resolution of Afghanistan case which we should not let go off.
             The UN 5-point plan can restore peace and security in Afghanistan. In order to pave the way for UN implementation of this proposal the important topic is ncn-interference of the aliens in the internal affairs of[ Afghanistan and foreign powers should not try to bring to power their lackies'and henchmen and also military assistance to warring Sides must be stopped. Non-interference from outside could guarantee the implementation of UN plan which may be amended further.                                   '         .    :
             SENATOR GHULAM NABI CHEKNORI
             Much has been said about the UN 5-point plan in this meeting and I do not
                                                      75
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
                          * • , /
           want to prolong the discussion. However, I say only this.that an important topic is- that we should enter Afghanistan as victorious and with total solidarity. When we go to Afghanistan and even then oppose each Other, I do not kngw, what will the world community think of us. Unfortunately,the mujaheddin organizations are not happy with each other and it is high time we had a united leadership.We do need unity. If we are united, we would not be blamed; otherwise we shall be blamed, all the sacrifices we have made, notwithstanding. We all Afghans have turned refugees with one objective and desire at heart. That we are not united in the achievement of our desired goal is unfortunate. As some friends spoke regarding Grand Assemblies (Loya Jirgahs) and National Jirgahs, there was, of course, difference of opinions about that. However, it was good in as much as the differences were scholarly and all presented their opinions in a reasonable way. We are indebted to the UN and the world at large and at the same time have complains also. It goes without saying that they have assisted us greatly. But in the first place we should complain from ourselves because one who . respects himself he will be respected and honored by the World also. We ought to get closeri to each other; we refugees wherever we are, ought to get around a unified objective. The Afghan communities in Europe have also differences among themselves which is a great misfortune.
                Regarding Najib, we say only this much that his sacrilege and atheism are undeniable and, besides, he is a crafty and sly person also, and we should not be cheated by him. We can never reconciliate with them. Undoubtedly, while the war is on., there is . need to fight and ’ih peace there is need for peace. Bgt peace with disrespect shall never be tolerated arid we shall have no touch with such kind of peace.
                Then we come to the point of getting together and united around a. single, objective. Much has been said regarding atheism and massacre perpetuated by Najib. Even, so he is heard by the world and the world do not listen to us,, the reason being that his voice is one voice which comes out of a single mouth,. Let us pray that God Almighty bless us to get united and get closer to each other and through talking make each other understand.
                                                          76
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL.4 NO.4
  CCAR SEMINAR ON MEDIA IN FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY,
             SUMMARY
          EDITOR*S NOTE:   The following are summaries of articles and
          discussions of a seminar held by the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies (IAPS) of the CCAR 11-14 May, 1991, on the role of media in the future Afghan society. Writers1 identities are presented at the end of this summary.
                                     INAUGURAL STATEMENTS
               IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL AND THE MOST BENEFICIENT HAB1B-UR-RAHMAN HALA (PRESIDENT OF SEMINAR)
          The media plays an ever-increasing vital role in our contemporary life. The modern sociologists have called the contemporary age as the "Age of Media".
          The Russian aggressors, after occupying Afghanistan with the military force, destroyed our economic infrastructure, distorted our national, cultural and educational system and struck at the roots of our national texture. They wanted to decimate our self-sufficiency and to deform our national identity in order to put the yoke of slavary and bondage speedily and conveniently on our shoulders.
          Although the Muslims in Afghanistan drove the forces of Russian aggression out of their homeland with heroic valour and determination and frustrated their colonial aims, the survival of the puppet communist regime in Kabul shows that Russian imperialism is still holding the fort indirectly and that the jehad has not achieved its aim, in toto.
          The only means that can play the role of a mediator and liaison among the Muslims, in these disturbed conditions and encourage them to solve their mutual differences and vital and urgent problems, is the media. But as the custodians of the media are mostly dispersed and have limited resources, they cannot be expected to accomplish such a big mission, under the circumstances.
          The aim of the present seminar is to assess the past and the present role
77
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
           of the media and to present specific and scholarly proposals and views for its effective contribution. In order to evaluate the whole gamut of the media, the relevant subjects have been covered in 25 articles which include the following titles:
Media's relations with Islam,
Media's relations with government regulations.
Radio, television and cinema,
Jehad press.
Communist press.
Ownership, funding and administration of the media.
New Technology's contribution in expediting media functions.
Journalism education Women's role in the Press.
                In the last session of the seminar, the Secretary will submit a report about the assessment, evaluation and suggestions.
                                        SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI (FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE CCAR)
                Our present seminar is related to the future of the media in our country. The press was described as the fourth pillar of the state, by one of the Kings of France which shows the great significance of this medium in the society. In this seminar we should discuss the question whether we have the right to enjoy the freedom of expression according to the fundamental principles of Islam or not? Some of our brothers have written articles in this connection but it is a recognized fact that God has created man free and has made him responsible and answerable for his actions..If man were not free in his thought and action, how could he be held responsible and answerable for his deeds. However this freedom is not merely a freedom specifically for the media. It may be kept in mind that
           the media interprets public opinion, reflects the everyday affairs of the society and individual and institutions. If according to Islamic laws, the media is free and can freely criticize and comment on the problems of society, the people also have the right to express' their views freely about the current affairs which affect the life pattern of each one of them. Therefore they stand in need of a means to convey their views to others and this task is entrusted to the media.
                 If the media is under government control, would the government permit them to publish something harmful to the authorities concerned although this material may be in the interest of the people and the society? Can the governments have a comprehensive knowledge of all the facts? On the other hand, if we place the press at the disposal of the public, would the proprietors of the media not take undue advan age of their powers?
                 The third question which craves thoughtful consideration and discussion, is the issue of effective utilization of the means and resources which may help the media perform its mission towards the society. These means are mainly written material like newspapers, magazines, books and audio gadgets such as radio and audio-visual facilities i.e. Television and films.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
                                                           78
      JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991                 MM JIHAD                    VOL. 4 NO.4
           How can we make an affective use of these means to communicate our message? In this connection, it may be said that this is a debatable subject- as to how much freedom we would have to gather the news we need ? For instance, if we want to gather certain information from a public office, do we have the freedom to obtain what we want? If not, then the question is, whether it has contravened the press freedom or not?
           The fourth question would be about the contents of the media. At this point, we would discuss at length, what some of our brothers prefer to call Mthe Islamic press." I think that when we talk about the »text and the contents, we Can briefly state the same in* one simple sentence and that is, what is good, should be published and what is bad, should not be published.
           Our last question concerns the       training of  a      pious, experienced,
      foresighted, learned, honest and bold cadre for the press. When we talk about a gbod press, we should     give priority to the training of  a talented and pious
      cadre. If we intend to    plan now for our future press, we should take necessary
      steps for the training of such a cadre right today. So long as we do not hajce a -knowledgeable, honest, fairmirided and justice-loving personnel, who, might as far as humanly possible, be able to subordinate their personal feelings and Sentiments to the larger interests of the society and the Divine injunctions, it would not be possible to have a good and viable press.
           Whatever freedom     of expression we may have and whatever good means of
      communicating bur ideas we may possess, so long as we do not have well qualified press cadre, our media will not be able to fulfil its mission.
                                  MOHAMMAD HASHEM MUJADDEDl (FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE CCAR)
           Communication and education have great importance in Islam. I dp not think Shy other religion or creed has attributed so much importance and significance to the media, as the religion of Islam.
                                         t
           Our Holy Prophet, peace be upon him* had a Divine mission to preaph Islam and preaching is the first stage of inculcating consciousness in the sgciety. He used to Say to his respected companions to convey to the people whatever they heard from him. Islam has determined a framework for communicating information to ,the people and the media should adopt it as their guideline. Islam has forbidden the broadcasting of false news and circulating any material which may mislead the Islamic society.
           One of the most important means of contact with the people is making Speeches and issuing statements. Islam has enjoined the delivery of sermon ogee every Friday and twice a year on the occasion of two Islamic Bids and pnhlic sertnon for the pilgrims at Arafat. Friday sermons should deal with th§ day-to-day affairs and the topics of interest to the inhabitants of that area. The Eid sermon refers to the important events of the year and the future plans of the country and the sermon at Arafat should cover all the significant problems concerning the Islamic world.
                                                     79
         JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991             AfGIIANJIHAO                    VOL. 4 NO.4
             Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon hipi, stated those fundamental points in the Huj jat-ul-Wida' sermon, which contained the Islamic constitution and in the meantime advised the Muslims that the sermon at Arafat should encompass the entire important issues of the world of Islam.
            Muslims are allowed to take advantage of all the means of communication* They can use newspapers/ weaklies, monthlies, radio, television, video-cassettes and all other such instruments. But the modality of using these means and the matters that they contain, should be within the framework prescribed by Islam.
             The main object of Islam is to reform the society and to propagate noble ethics, to strengthen brotherhood, to promote love and friendship and to encpurage moral way! of life among the Muslims all over the world. .
             Modern inventions, for this purpose, ought to be used in a healthy and positive manner and the Islamic programs should be prepared and broadcast -in; languages spoken by the Muslims.
                                PROFESSOR BURHANUDDIN RABBANI (JIA LEADER, KEYNOTE SPEAKER)
             The miracle performed by our Prophet, was not the revival of the dead and hjs did not perform material miracles like other Divine Prophets. His miracle is the Holy Quran which is a guide and mentor of all humanity. It signifies the role- of the spoken word and the book of preaching in our Islamic culture and the propagation of Islam.
             Importance pf the media is described aptly in these two verses of the Holy Quran which has become a familiar by-pass to all of us:
        * Let there arise out of you a group of people inviting to all that is good and engpining what is right and forbidding what is bad (Surah A'raf: Verse 104).
        ♦  You ere the best of peoples, evolved for mankind, enjoining what is right and
        forbidding what is wrong (Sural A'raf: Verse 110).                       .
             Undoubtedly the media has a special significance in the society, because it ftae a mission to reconstruct human thought. If human thought is reconstructed and guided properly, it will lead to the creation of healthy Islamic societies and the emancipation of man from many self-made troubles and trevails.
              One of the noteworthy points is the educational aspect of the media concerning the children. We should have proper messages in mind to be conveyed tp the children. You may find many youngmen in our society who have murdered their brothers or have committed crimes under the influence of crime movies. Spch ypungmep indulge in sensual crimes because they have seen pornographic ppyies. Therefore falsehood, distortion of fact and misleading propaganda should ppt be reflected by our media because such things lead to mental perversion and deviation.
              We are faced today with a highly confusing technology which challenges’us
                                                     80
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL.
4 NO.4
        and also threatens our Islamic culture. We should be mentally prepared to deal with these challenges. In the past our press was irresponsible and lacked moral standards. As such it published ridiculous and sensational material and hence we do not want that these mistakes should be repeated. We are in need of a program which may make our press answerable and responsive to the needs and difficulties of our time. I believe that in Islamic societies the educational system and the media should contribute to amity and friendship among members of the society.
             The views and suggestions of our brothers, whether expressed through the Cultural Council of the Afghanistan Resistance and the cultural institutions of the jehad parties or elsewhere, ought to be compiled in the shape of a collection so that the press in tomorrow's Afghanistan may utilize it in an appropriate manner.
             The Islamic revolution literature has been valuable and poets and writers, during this period, have made worthy contribution's to the noble cause. Our children should be taught the Islamic culture from now on and we should preserve our identity and hold our fort in the face of foreign press attacks and foreign 'films.
             In' view of the prevailing conditions in our country, the mujaheddin should continue the armed jehad but at the same time they should continue to look for political solutions which should not be repugnant to the noble cause and ideals of the jehad and should not make.us a satellite state and ought not divest us of our national will and the power and ability to take our own decisions.
             We hope that God willing, our nation would soon be able to see the silver lining on the horizon.                      ,
                                       •            - I  ■
                                             ARTICLES
                            THE HOLY RELIGION OF ISLAM AND THE MEDIA DR. ENAYATULLAH EBLAGH
              One of the important subjects to be reviewed, is the communication aspect of the sacred religion of Islam and further it should be thoroughly studied as to what    were the means to    communicate these  ideals throughout the     past
         centuries. The "question is, how were these means put to use and how did they deal with positive, or negative subject matters?
              The   Holy Prophet, peace  be upon him, and   his revered companions    were
         waiting for the Divine Command to determine the modality of the Islamic preaching. Therefore many verses were revealed in this connection, providing useful guidance under different conditions. The Holy Quran reads:
              "Invite all to the way of your Lord with wisdom and beautiful preaching and argue with them in the ways that are best and most gracious (Surah Nahl: Verse 12)
              This shows clearly the real difference between Islamic preaching and f political propaganda. There is no room for falsehood and propaganda or misinformation in Islamic pronouncements.
                                                      81
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             flfRIIHMJ(H/10                   VOL. 4 NO.4
             Most of the intellectuals of the world admit that Islamic preachings are based on humanitarianism which has to be observed and respected at any cost. In other words, the manner in which the human' rights have been observed in the Islamic code of life, in the real sense of the word, have not received the same setious attention in other world charters.
             History bears witness* to the fact that the crusaders, after conquering Jerusalem, massacred 70,000 Muslims in the Aqsa Mosque. On the contrary the Muslim conquerors would always see to it that no harm is done to the people at large and at the start of war, the Muslim leaders repeatedly announced that old and senile men and women as well as children should not be killed.
             Islamic teachings enjoin favorable atmosphere for the comprehensive progress of all the classes in a society and forbid its followers to desist from creating any undue mental worries or disturbances.
             Islamic preaching take into consideration moral and material aspects of life in a uniform manner. In other words, the material aspects of life have not been ignored. Some people believe that Islam only lays stress on spiritual and moral development, which is not correct. On the contrary, Islam covers both aspects of life. But at the same time, it does not give importance to merely the material side of life and does not believe in isolation or celibacy and abstention from the material and physical benefits of life. It is explained in the Holy Quran:
        Say:  Who has forbidden the beautiful (gifts) of God which he has produced for
        his servants (Surah A’raf: Verse 32)
             Islam has clarified the rights of the poor in an Islamic society and the obligations of the rich towards the poor, too. Besides, the Islamic economic system is neither socialist nor capitalist but a system at a higher level than these. It is not a moderate or middle of the road sort of system placed between these two systems as the Muslims wrongly interpret it.
             One of the characteristics of Islam is its miraculous aspect which has many dimensions. On the one hand, there is the Holy Quran which has proved its miraculousness because all the Arab poets and writers have not been able to produce one single verse resembling the Quranic verses. On the other hand, the meaningful and explicit letters written by the Holy Prophet who was untutored and had not been educated in any school or institution, is another miracle which demonstrates the Prophet, peace be upon him, though unschooled in the formal way, was so much educated in the divine knowledge that one cannot object to any one of his sentences or discern any plan in his political messages which could be termed as objectionable.           .
             Prior to the spread of the light of Islam, the means of declaration or announcement in the Arab world were:
        -  Contacts during seasonal trade fairs,
        -  Gatherings at Dar-un-Nadrah,
        -  Meetings of poets and writers.
           Beating qjf ■ drums.
                                                     82
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
              Making a bonfire to attract people’s attention.
VOL. 4 no.4
                Islam took advantage of only seasonal trade fairs and poetical gatherings and also allowed   the                        beating of drums in some cases, but making bonfire was
          changed into the   call for prayers (Azan) and the Haj season was declared as                    the
          most important occasion for the Islamic preaching. The congregational prayers and Friday prayers were described as the best means for public relationing and contacts among all classes of people.
             •
                It would be very advisable to organize a new Islamic organisation called the  International Islamic Organisation    based  on the genuine                   Islamic standards
          and  independent thinking in order to     pursue   a unified and                   well orchestrated
          policy for publicity and broadcast.
                In the end   it may be mentioned that in future                         Afghanistan, after the
          restoration of complete independence and establishment of an Islamic government, in the real sense of the word, based on the teachings of the Holy Quran, the basic and original Islamic standards should be kept in consideration and care should be taken    to                         discourage such declarations or publications which may
          create social disturbance. In the meantime undue flattery should be discouraged and  the publications and broadcasts      should   interpret the                     feelings of the
          oppressed Muslims without encouraging them to anarchy or indiscipline or persuading them to keep mum in the face of excess or trespass on individual rights.
                             ISLAMIC PREACHING THROUGH THE PRESS MOHAMMAD GULAB BASHAR
              The Islamic preaching connot inviting people towards the path of righteousness and to prohibit them from getting astray and thus invoking divine blessings for them in this world and the hereafter.
              As the Islamic history bears witness to the fact that our Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, accomplished his preaching mission in Makkah and Madine with a strong faith, confidence, complete sincerity and despite the danger of hostility from the heretics and polytheists neither gave way to fear nor succumbed to greed or wordly goods or temptations of social status and position*
               During the 13 years at Makkah, the main mission of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, was to disprove and refute the prevailing heretic and polytheistic thoughts and ideas, replacing them with the idea of oneness of God and His Worship and obediance.
               During the 10 years of Migration in Madina, side by side with reforming the popular beliefs, he explained the divine orders. In Makkah,the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, only preached religion but in Madina oral and written^ preaching were performed simultaneously by him.
               The Holy Quran has recounted the importance of. both types of preaching:
               "Who is better in speech than one who calls (men) to God, works rightous-ness and says, "I am of those who are in Islam". (Surrah Fussilat: ,;Verse 33)
                                                        83
JULY - SEPTEMBER * 1991  MffllJlN iHWlO                 VOL. 4 NO.4
               God Almighty has mentioned the virtue of the verbal preaching and the
          second means of preaching by the pen, in these words:      "by the Pen  and by the
          (Record) whiqh (men) write." (Surah Qalam; Verse 1)
                  • •
               Similarly. God Almighty has urged the importance of reading and writing, in the following verse:
               "Read, in the name of your Lord and Cherisher who created, created man of a (mere) clot of congealed blood: Read and your Lord is most bountiful; He who taught (the use of) the Pen, taught man that which he knew not." (Surah Iqraa: Verse 1-5-).
               There are different ways of preaching:
               1. AUDIO STYLE:
                  Sermon from the pulpit.
                  Debate on selected topics and question and answer.          ■
               -  Discussion and discourse among different persons to reach a conclusion
                  by logical argumentation.
               -  Teaching lessons.
                  Individual preaching and advice.
               -  Conferences and statements. .
               This is a very old procedure and has been very effective at all times.
            2. THROUGH THE MEDIA
               By radio broadcasts.
               By recorded cassettes.          ,                                          f
            3. VISUAL STYLE:
                  V' /.                                                                   |
            - Books ■                                                                     I
            -  Magazines-                                       v                         i
            -  Newspapers
            -  Brochures
                                                            •
            4. AUDIO-VISUAL
            -  Television, Cinema, Theatre, Drama.
               The duties of a preacher in relation with the Islamic press are as follows:
             1. If a ' preacher . speaks or writes about a subject, he should have sound knowledge of thie subject in question.
           : 2. The preacher should possess a high and dignified fcharacter and should be a good practical follower of the Islamic precepts without any contradiction between his words and deeds.
             3. The preacher, in his speeches and writings, should give priority to those topics which are necessary for the reformation of the society.
                                                        84
     JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991        AfGHAHJIHMI                 VOL. 4 NO.4
       4. The preacher should be a pious and sincerely devoted man.
       5. The preacher should be persistant in his efforts end should not feel incompetent or disappointed.
          In the conclusion, I would like to quote this saying of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him:
          "Blessed are those who purify what the others pollute".
                                            DISCUSSIONS
      KUSHKAKI: As  generally observed, most of Islamic countries have failed to
      Islamize radio and television plays and dramas. My specific query from Mawlana Beshar is, that in case we may desire to present plays by radio or television in the future Afghanistan^ what> would be the Islamic viewpoint in this regard? I ask comprehensive discussion on the subject.
      BASHAR: The listener, viewer and/or the drama producer should all observe Islamic rules and those who appear on the stage should be dressed properly. The dress should not be sensually provocative and should not violate our national character and religious sensibilities. The fact is that in the modern way of life, radio, television and VCR are considered essential household goods.
      KU&HKAKI: Mawlana Beshar has remarked in his articles that propagation of Islam shomld be done through plays and dramas, whereas female artists are an integral part of dramas for portraying family life. Is it possible^,for women, according to the laws of Shariat, to play a role in dramas or not?
      EBLAGH: My deduction from Mr. Kushkaki's questions is that religious scholars may issue a specific religious decree (Fetwa) concerning the role of womten in plays and dramas. So far as I am concerned I do not consider mys,elf competent enough to issue such a decree and similarly no one else would give such a. right to himself. But on the other hand, my own view would be that in case female artists play the role of the Holy Ladies of the Household of' our Holy Prophet or if they represent such women, in the plays, whose way of life is unethical, I would certainly declare it to be indecent. However, other portrayals which are harmonious with Islamic teachings and acted in such a manner that it observes the moral standards of Islam and does not provoke sensual feelings, would not be objectionable from my point of view. Albeit production of dramas and stories based on Quranic ancedotes would be absolutely absurd and outrageous.
      WEJDAN:  The media in itself is not repugnant to Islam. Newspaper, book, radio
      and television are all means to reflect the facts but.Hf we misuse them, the media as such cannot be considered at fault. On the contrary we would be guilty, because we misused them and distorted the facts, contrary to the teachings of Islam.
      EBLAGH: It is an established principle that if we take inspiration from the essence of Islam and put it into practice, then we do not need anything else. What I mean to say is that if we use newspapers, radio and television properly
                                                   85
           JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991              -flfGllflMJfHflO-                 VOL.   4  NO-4
          it would be consonent- with the teachings of Islam. I have never believed that these means may be ignored because in our contemporary life we need them.
          HALAH: Some  people  believe that propaganda  means falsehood whereas it is not so
          and it actually means propagating and conveying a message and even more than that. The reason is that we communicate an idea to the other party by resorting to propaganda. People believe that a proper propaganda is permissible but an improper propaganda, uncalled for.
                   t *
          KUSHKAKI:  "Propaganda" does  not merely mean propagation but means that a petty
          fact or happening is so magnified as to mislead public opinion.
          HALAH: The term "propaganda" was used for the first time by the Roman Catholic Church for preaching the Christian religion.
          EBLAGH:  We are very much used to the terms and expressions of daily use. For
          example, if we say to someone that he is a good preacher, he feels Very happy but if we call him a propagandist, obviously his response would not be pleased, even though from purely academic viewpoint, these two words, are very close to each other. From our occuStomed idiomatic point of view, there is a lot of difference between the two. In our country, propaganda means spreading of meaningless and worthless news in order to malign a regime or person.
          ZAHER SIDDIQ:  Although  Islam  has clarified every point in broad outlines,' our
          life today is so complicated that whether we like it or not, we are influenced by the world press. The human bonds and relationship are.so extensive and far
          reaching that, try as we may, we cannot be unmindful of these bonds, because we all belong to one big human family.                                      ’
               Now I want to know whether we should depend entirely on the noble teachings of Islam or take into consideration other points too as human values, for our future press law?
          EBLAGH: Nobody has denied this. Whatever is clean and decent and useful from the Islamic point of view and does not damage our national status and identity, we
          would accept it, whether Western or Eastern. But if there is something that is repugnant to our social norms and culture, we can never accept that.
          ASHEEQ: The issue of female participation in radio and television programs existed in Iran too when the Islamic Republic of Iran came ihto being. But gradually the issue was solved and they decided that a woman should be properly veiled and should wear gloves in order to act in a movie. For instance if she has to play the role of a mother and reflect the feelings of a mother, she should do so, but properly dressed.
           EBLAGH: We believe that Iran, has done away with many social fevils and is still trying to Islamize the society entirely.
86
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            MMJIIIIHl ______________________ VOL,  4 NO.4
                                                ARTICLE
       ISSUES RELATING TO THE STYLE OF MEDIA PUBLICITY IN THE ISLAMIC SOCIETY
                                           ABDUL HAQ ATEED
           The mode and style of Islamic publicity in today's Muslim society has great significance. All sensible, educated and intelligent people are duty-bound to be vigilant enough to protect their countrymen from the sinister influence of the hostile and venemous propaganda of the enemies of Islam who are constantly making efforts to malign the Muslims and the Isl,amic culture.
           Today the Muslims have an             obligation, under the fast changing
      circumstances, to keep themselves well abreast of the latest developments in the society and to make the greatest use of the modern advanced means of information to preach the Islamic teachings and to educate the members of their society in the best possible way. There is no objection from the Islamic point of view to utilize these means but on the contrary it would be far better if we used them in the light of the Islamic teachings and be a source of moral and material welfare for hundreds and thousands of our countrymen by guiding them towards piety and honesty.
           The modern means of communication are the weapons of this century which should be owned by the Muslims. If they wage a jehad by these means it would be a blessing in disguise and if they try to harm their Muslim brothers by these means, then they have committed a deadly sin .against themselves and their society.
           Ond of the difficulties of our Islamic society . is that the Islamic countries are not independent in expressing their views and are devoid of freedom of expression. Their media are under the control or supervision of their respective governments which are mostly influenced by the Western culture or act according to the whims and fancies pf the Western governments. Due to this reason they allocate very short time for religious programs in their radio and television networks and very short space in newspaper and journals. If they braodcast or telecast any such programs, the timing or the presentation is of
      such a style that the listeners and viewers immediately turn them off.
           It is regrettable that so far che Muslims have not been able to establish a publicity center on an international level and render a considerable service to the Islamic World througji such a center.
           Therefore keeping in view the existing difficulties in the Islamic world, taking into consideration the scientific advancements in the field of publicity and propaganda and the need of the Islamic society for effective means of publicity, I propose the . following points:-
      - Establishment of a big publicity center on the international lines for limelighting the aims and objects of the Islamic world.
      - Employment of well-informed, sympathetic and Muslim personnel for propagating Islamic thoughts through the media.
                                                   87
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            flfflllflH JiHflfl -               VOL. 4 NO.4
        -  Adoption, of effective and constructive approach for broadcasting in radio and television and publishing newspapers, magazines and educative books.
        -Selection of advanced and effective educational curriculum consonant with the Islamic culture.
        -  Avoiding disputable issues in the media and inviting Muslims towards unity and harmony.
        -  Training talented and intelligent persons for this purpose.
        -  Compilation and translation of brief and educative books for the youth.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
        SHINWARI:  Mr.  Ateed stressed the positive points of jehad in his article,
        exhorting the youth to be men of letters and the sword. My opinion is that jehad is a touchstone which distinguishes between the pure and the impure Gold.' Hence the article should have contained a reference to the deviants.
        ASHEEQ:  In a part of Ateed*s article, it is stated that so long as the BBC does
        not broadcast a news, our people do not accept it. It shows, in other words, that perhaps we do not speak the truth and because we Muslims have lost our credibility, people do not believe us.
        ATEED: Islamic  countries have very limited Islamic programs in their radio and
        television and their broadcasts are not in harmony with the taste and expectations of the people. On the other hand, as we do not possess a standard broadcasting system at the international evel, our people rely more on the BBC broadcasts than the broadcasts carried out by the mujaheddin and this is a harsh reality. Therefore we Muslims should have such an international broadcasting system which could gain credibility at that level.
        KUSHKAKI:  Mr. Ateed has stated in his article that Islam has no other option
        except resort to an armed jehad to remove the obstacles in its path. I would like to know whether the statement is correct from' an Islamic angle or not? It is quite possible that other options may also exist to remove obstacles from the path of Islamic preaching without the need to resort to armed jehad. Is not armed jehad one of the alternatives?
        ATEED: As long as obstacles exist in the path of preaching, jehad is a must and when such obstacles are removed and no one blocks the process of preaching, there would be no need for armed jehad.
        EBLAGH:  Armed jehad is one of the options for preaching. So when other options
        are exhausted then one may resort to armed jehad.
        ZAHER SIDDIQ:   Mr. Ateed said that we should have a broadcasting system on the
        international level. At present Motamar Alam-e-Islami (World Islamic Congress) has 10 radip stations and each one has its own policy. We should deal with "first things first. To start with, we must speak the truth so others may follow suit
                                                  88
       JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991__________________WIIHJM                    VOL. 4 NO-4
       and also we are believed.
       MUJADDEDI: As  regards   Islamic broadcasts,  Islamic governments have; radio
       stations and the Muslim world is seized of the matter but so far they have not been able to achieve anything because the Islamic states have less powers. For example the International Islamic News Agency is a subsidiary of the OIC and is established at Jeddah. The© there is the International Islamic Institute of Radio and Television, also an OIC subsidiary. But their performance suffers due to inadequate funds and the Islamic states have not been able to provide the required financial assistance to enable these institutions to compete with other
       broadcasting systems in the world.
                                            ARTICLES
            PHILOSOPHY AND FUNDAMENTALS OF THE FREEDOM OF PRESS IN ISLAM
                                       HABIBULLAH GHALEB
            The meaning of preaching in Islam, is the propagation of the Islamic beliefs, values, fundamentals and teachings among the people. It is a synonym for demand,' request, encouragement, persuasion and guidance towards tfye desired goal. Hence Islamic preaching is the act of inviting people towards divine blessing and the acceptance of the righteous religion of Islam. As explained by the Holy Quran:
            "The Religion before God is Islam (submission to His Will) (Sura Al-e-Imran Verse 19 ) .                                                                *
            "0 Apostle, procliam the (Message) which has been sent to you from your Lord, if you did not do so, you would not have fulfilled and proclaimed His Mission..." (Surah Al-Maeda: Verse 67).
            If
             Now we have sent them our Word successively in order that they may receive admonition." (Surah Al-Qasas: Verse 51).
            Therefore the terms declaration,communication and conveying mean spreading, extending, announcing and presenting the information and the knowledge to all the people.
            It is necessary that an Islamic declaration should enjoy complete freedom and should not serve as a tool in the hands of the rulers to enable them to play with the minds of the people. Islamic teachings help us to find ways and means to discern and find out the divine thoughts and in the light of these sublime thoughts to try to break the external shackles of domination and usurpation and do away with the evils of lust and animal instincts.
            Islamic preaching entails introduction of Islamic culture with its noble ideals and high values to elevate the level of human thinking and to awaken the human conscience for the embellishment of human behavior, so that we may endeavor to forge unity among the Islamic Ummah and promote Islamic brotherhood.
            All happenings, events, ideas and news reports should be properly evaluated in the light of Islamic standards and discussed and analysed in Such a way that the doubts and mischievous allegations by the enemies of Islam may be logically
                                                    89
         JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991             RfflNJOIIM                       VOL.   4 NO.4
         explained and brought to the notice,of.the puonc. There is no doubL that these targets can be achieved by individual freedom and not by collective freedom. The reason is that the tall claims of collective freedom hold no water compared to the guarantee of individual freedom. Actually the reverse is true i.e, collective freedom is always a corollary of individual freedom.
             The main points of Islamic preaching during the early Islamic period were:
             1.  The Holy Quran;
             2.  The sayings of the Holy Prophet
             3.       The Traditions of the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, and his worthy companions;
             4.       The individual ana collective relationships of such Muslims to the teachings and Traditions of the Holy Prophet and his companions who are trusted by the Muslim Ummah;
             5.  Non-Quranic stories which gained currency after the life of the Holy
                 Prophet;
             6.  The Haj ceremonies';
             7,. Holding of consultation meetings.
                         A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION JAWIIAR SIDDIQI
             From the Islamic point of view each and every citizen of a country has the right to express his views regarding the state of affairs of his society. The Holy Quran says:   Enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong ( Surah
         Al-e-Imran: Verse 110).
             The Holy Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him, has said:     "After  me, some
         persons will assume power. Whoever supports them falsely and helps them in Tyranny, Will not belong to me."
             Freedom of expression had reached such a climax during the life-span of. the Prophet, peace be upon him, that one day when the war booty was being distributed, someone cried, "0 Mohammad , do justice." The Holy Prophet without reprimanding him or without being perturbed, responded, "if I do not do justice, then who will do so?"
             From the Islamic angle, all the publicity media have a strong connection with the principle of human freedom and in a society devoid of the principle of freedom, it would be difficult for the people to differentiate between good and bad or the right path apd the misleading one.
             .The Holy Quran besides guaranteeing the freedom of expression, enjoins us to make better use of the principle of freedom, in the following verses:
             "Say to my servants that they should (only) say those things that are right." (Surah Bani Israel, Verse: 53).
             "0 you who believe, fear God, and (always) say a word directed to the right." (Surah Al-Ahzab: Verse 70)
             "Repel (Evil) with what is better." (Surah Fussilat: Verse 34)
             "And dispute you not with the people of the Book except with means better
                                                    90
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991 RffillllN JlllllO                  VOL. 4 NO.4
       than mere disputation". (Surak Al Ankaboot; Verse 40).
            Obviously wherever; human freedom is missing, despotism with all its tragedies will rule the'people. A society under despotic rule, strangulates the spirit of initiative or innovation.:One should not be so naive as to expect good from evil. Unfortunately today's despotism is much more dangerous than, the previous despotism in the past history. The reason is that the present day rulers have vast technical and cultural facilities at their command. For instance they control the educational institutioris, information agencies, newspapers, means of entertainment arid the legislative department, etc;
            Despotism corrupts administration. A good and free administration searches for men of strong■character, sound knowledge of world affairs, will-power and confidence so that a properly qualified person should occupy the appropriate post and should come up to the expectations of the government and the people. ’
            Despotism encourages only flattery, disunity, cowardice, avarice, meanness and degradation. These characteristics mar the feeling of' self-respect, human dignity and high moral values in a human being. People    tend to be  cowards' and
       feel afraid to speak in a straightforward manner.     Such conditions  distort the
       face of a nation and destroy the national^glory.
            Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, has said:   "When you find people in my
       Umraah who be so afraid and coward that they may not call a tyrant, a tyrant in his face, then bid farewell to them. It is better     that they should be dead and
       buried than alive". But, on the contrary, in          the contemporary world    of
       despotism, the despots urge the people to call them as champions, heroes, men of the moment and great leaders.
            The Holy Prophet says: "Throw dust on flatterers". But unfortunately in our contemporary world, the flatterers reach such high positions that the righteous and straightforward people carinot dream of'.
            Almighty Allah has bestowed many good moral characteristics to eyery human being so that he may benefit from it and develop his personality accordingly. Generally speaking, the all-embracing name given to these characteristics is "the conscience". The conscience resembles a computer and. in the same Way as a computer collects the required data and provides its owner the information he or
       she may be in need of, God has fixed a computer in man's mind which is described by the Holy Quran as Nafs-e-Lawwamah. It can also be described as coriscierice. .
            The Holy Quran says:"By the Soul, and the proportion and the order given to it and its' enlightenment and its wrong and its right;" (Surah Ash-shams: Verses 8-9) .                                    .
            At the end I would like to state that press and the people are complementary to each other and cannot be, separated.' When the flag of freedom is. raised in a, society, naturally it flutters with the breeze of press. Freedom of the press, internal and external, ensures the security and survival of the people. That is why a healthy society extends full support to a free press.
                                                    91
        JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991             MANJIHMI                         VOL. 4 N0.4
                 _____ _________________________________________________
                   *
                                             PRESS LAW
                                                                   \
                                     MOHAMMAD ZAHER SIDDIQ
             The Press is a social phenomenon, fresh and young but powerful and impressionable. It has emerged now as the fourth column in the hierarchy of the democratic nations. Press is a means for the awakening of the nations and serves as a conduit for venting the feelings and sentiments of the society as well as contributes to the consciousness and awareness of the people besides educating them.
             Its contributions may be categorised as follows:
             1.  Political role.
             2.  Enhancement of general knowledge,
             3.  Enlightening about technical advancement.
             The press has developed only in countries having political consciousness and enjoying democratic values. Democracy and political consciousness are the great motivational forces behind the media and hence a comprehensive code can determine the limits of a responsible press.               .
              Dictatorial and despotic regimes have always been opposed to the freedom of press, particularly those regrimes headed by an individual, a family or a junta and/or a single dominating party as customary in the erstwhile. East European countries. Even under such constrained conditions, too, the press has a ^unilateral influence.
             Laws are actually standards which are evolved under special circumstances and are subject to change, metamorphosis and evolutionary process of a society.
             The press in Afghanistan has gone through the following periods of trial or stages of development from the legalistic point of view:
             1.  Governmental or Royal Court press.
             2.  Free press.,             ■
             3.  Controlled press,.
             4.  Jehadic press.
             The first 50 years were spent in carrying out the wishes of the royal court, and the government in power. As such there did not exist any code or regulation and only the court controlled the press.
             Till 20 years after the closing down of the official newspaper i.e. till the beginning of this century the press was replaced by the issuance and publication of the royal decrees and advertisements which in itself, spoke of the announcement of state regulations and inviting the people to obey the King. Actually the governmental press‘came into existence in the third decade of this , Century, in this era which may be described as the legislation period and
                                                    92
         JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              BIGBIINJlWIfl                    VOL-  4 NO.4
         gestatiiig phase of the constitutional monarchy in Afghanistan, 66 pieces of legislations were approved including the press code. Unfortunately this era was drowned in the vortex of. political upheavals and chaos and Afghanistan was faced with anarchy.
              The later period covering half a century from 1929 to 1978 saw the rise of governmental press. However side by side with the newspapers, weeklies and magazines, at first radio broadcasts and later television,also appeared on the scene. In this period, the press policy was in a strait jacket. Although its last s five years were described as republican or democratic era rather than royal, the policy was the same.
              During 120 years of the existance of press in Afghanistan, three press laws were approved. They were:*
              1.  The 1924 Press Law (Amanullah Government)
              2. The 1950 Press Law (Royal Government)
              3V The 1965 Press Law (Royal Government)
              Subsequent to the prolonged struggle for self-determination and at the conclusion of a century of governmental and official press as well as after the dissemination of news and > publication of news-bulletins during the period of migration to our two neighbouring Islamic countries,Tnow we should determine our future course of action. In this connection we ought to seek inspiration from the Islamic Code and our historical and traditional values. Whenever the Afghan nation is able, to establish a national leadership a'fter the jehad is over and whenever the will of the people prevails over the affairs of the state, then we should have in view a good model for our press. The' best model nearest to us, is that of Pakistan and at a distance from us, is the Egypt. So far as the Egyptian press is concerned, its freedom of expression would seem hardly palatable to our war-tom nation but the press in Pakistan, our next-door neighbour, which has been a consistent supporter of our jehad, can serve.as a good model.
              Under the circumstances, when the future of our country is unknown and Afghanistan has not yet achieved complete independence, it would be rather difficult to foresee the coming events. But on the basis of general assessment of the people's will and the trend of developments in the world, we strongly hope that perhaps in the not too distant future the destiny of Afghanistan will take a distinct shape and it will have a system based on respect and regard for the fundamentals of democracy. The reason is that after 12 years of struggle and travail in this country, perhaps the people may not give a chance to a few individuals or a few families to establish dictatorship or despotism in Afghanistan.
              The future press laws' should inciuue terms and conditions guaranteeing freedom of expression within the framework of Islamic teachings and national interests, safeguarding the social and individual fights and interests.
              The press law should ensure freedom of expression and the right to get information, in practice, and should serve as a checkpost of social events and happenings.
                                                     93
         JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                MlNlMl                          VOL. 4    NO.4
              On the other hand, the government should provide equal opportunities to the press workers and journalists on the basis of piety and professional merit rather than on personal contacts and influence. Then a special tribunal should be established to deal with violations of the rules.
              The mode of rhetoric and the style of writing also plays a considerable role in the freedom of press. During the jehad, oratory and rhetoric was one of the main channels of communicating to the people. Therefore, any future press code should keep in mind the significance of this point, too..
              The future press code should seriously forestall "press terrorism". Press terrorism means inflicting injury or harm to the press workers and journalists or insulting or dishonoring them. Therefore, the perpetrator of such a crime should be tried in a court of law like a traitor or a criminal. The past decade's bitter experience and the happenings in Peshawar in connection with the jehad provide good examples and a good foundation for putting a stop to such unbecoming behaviour.
                                            DISCUSSIONS
         HALA:  Certain quarters  have been quoted as saying that "Ijtehad" (The exercise
         of 'judgement in Islamic principles) has been discarded by the followers of the Sunni sect. The question is, whether the stoppage of "Ijtehad" damages the press or the freedom of expression and other freedoms?
         JAWHAR SIDDIQI:  In case, some of the scholars have opined that there is no room
         for "Ijtehad", it means that conditions necessary for "Ijtehad" do not exist, at present.
         MAJIDI: Siddiqi has written in his article that in the modern world/ press has generally assumed the shape of an industry. My opinion in this regard is, that1 an industrial unit is productive and hence the purpose of press is quite different from that of an industrial unit.
         JAWHAR SIDDIQI: As other industrial units produce goods, so does the press and that is why it needs a   market to sell its products.  Besides in the same way as
         the owners of industry   think in terms of profit and  loss, so do the proprietors
         of the media. The writers who serve them, also work for profit or to earn money.
         MUJADDEDI: Mr.  Siddiqi  has referred to "Islamic democracy" in his article. It
         may be pointed out that to attribute democracy to Islam, reduces from the importance of the Islamic system, because Islam is a separate and distinct system, covering all such attributes. "
                        '             l  .
         MAJIDI: Mr. Siddiqi, while recalling the benefits of Islam, mentioned that Islam concedes high value to   the freedom of expression. I  would like to know whether
         in the Islamic system    in future Afghanistan, the authorities would attach the
         same value to freedom of expression or not?
         SIDDIQI:   Our great Islamic revolution would certainly have a noticeable
         impression on the vision of our people because it is unimaginable that the ■
                                                     94
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
       coming time may not have any connection with the past. Theiefore it is well-nigh impossible that in our .future conduct, we might ignore these basic effects. There is no doubt that the righteous jehad of the Muslim Afghan nation has left and is still leaving a deep impression on all the aspects of our national life, economic or political or intellectual, because our present day collective thinking, which is a very great force, cannot accept anything else than Islam and the Islamic philosophy. Hence the freedoms prevalent in the early days of Islam and the freedoms accorded to us by the Holy Quran and the values achieved by the . Islamic revolution in Afghanistan, will certainly play a decisive and firm role in the future of Afghanistan.
       ANZOOR: Mr. Ghaleb has remarked in his article that as a counter action, to the Islamic preachings# a compaign has been started in the West and other parts of the world in the shape of propaganda. The meaning of propaganda, as commonly understood, is not its apparent connotation but propaganda is a journalistic and academic expression.
       GHALBB:   Basically I have explained the literal meaning of preaching and what
       I meant to say was, that they have used the term propaganda instead of preaching or propagation.
             Actually the public interest is not taken into consideration and only individual or group interests are kept in view irrespective of the fact whether the Ijroup is political or religious and welfare and realities are not considered at all.
       tfEJDAN: Mr. Gtialeb has mentioned in his article that the Holy Quran and the Haj are means for preaching and religious declaration, whereas my interpretation is, that these two are the assence of the religious declaration. The prophets were the preachers and whatever God revealed to them through Gabriel, the prophets would convey the same to the people without adding or subtracting a word and without    paying attention to the reaction  of  the   people concerned. I have not
       come across such a good press or journalism which might have communicated a news to the people with such honesty.
       GHALBB: If one agrees to or recognizes the fact that book, writing and compiling are the     means to communicate a message   or  an    idea, automatically the Holy
       Quran becomes a means for religious preaching.
             I have called the Haj as the season for Haj because during the Eid and the relevant days, naturally people find an opportunity to study and understand the message of Islam.
       BASHAR:  Mr. Ghaleb  has  referred to the Shoora (Couneil) but his discourse is
       very brief. He should have explained that whereas the members of Shoora, are well-educated and well-informed persons, what would be their responsibility in preaching Islam and helping others embrace Islam?
       GHALBB:                             I have not gone into the details of the shoora but have referred to it
       only in the context of human bonds. Shoora                              was not . my principal subject for
       discussion.
                                                   95
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        RFHJlllMl                   VOL. 4 NO.4
                                             ARTICLES
         PERIODICAL PUBLICATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN. YESTERDAY. TODAY AND TOMORROW
                                          HABIBULLAH RAFI
              We may study the periodical publication development in Afghanistan, in three phases
              YESTERDAY:  From the reign of Amir Sher Ali Khan to 27 April, 1978,
              TODAY:  From  the Saur   (April) coup  to  the  complete independence of
              Afghanistan.                    '•
              TOMORROW: Till the complete independence and after the establishment of a national and Islamic government.
              In this manner, the past record and today's experiences lay the foundation of the future press.
              Amir Sher Ali Khan felt relatively relaxed during the second phase of his rule and devoted his attention to the organization and training of a regular army and initiation of social reforms. It was at this time that tie establisheM the printing press and the first Afghan periodical. "Shamsun Nahar-e-Kabul" was published;
              During the sixth year of Amir Habibullah Khan's reign on Hijri Qamari with the publication of "Seraj-ul-rAkhbar Afghanistan", the second periodical appeared on the horizon of domestic press. After the achievement of complete independence, efforts were made to further develop the press and publications activities.
              Sometimes later the newspaper, "Aman-e-Afghan" started being published from the capital.
              The first Constitution was drafted and approved in 1922 and guaranteed the freedom of expression in its 11th article, and in 1924 with the publication of the first press code, independent newspapers         such as Anis, Serwat,
         Naseem-e-Sahar and Nowroze appeared on the scene.
              Then during the short upsurge of Amir Habibullah, Known as Bacha-e-Saqao (the son of the water-carrier) the press was suppressed. But it was not elimi-. nated due to the regime's, propaganda requirements. The printing press used to publish urgent decrees and communiques alongwith the newspaper (published from the capital) "Aman-e-Afghan" renamed "Habib-ul-Islam" whereas all the other publications were stopped.
              The provinces had two kinds of publications. On the one side were the provinces controlled by the supporters of Bacha-e-Saqao and on the other were those provinces, controlled by his opponents.
              With the advent of Mohammad Nader Khan as the King, side by side with the
                                                    96
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991  flffilIM JIII/10                  VOL. 4 NO,4
      general reconstruction work, the press too was re-structured. But during this period, contrary to the circumstances prevailing during the rule of Amanullah Khan, the press was put under severe censorship and pressure. Although in the amended Constitution, freedom of press was guaranteed in practice, independent publications were discouraged and even the independent newspaper, Anis, was declared a government paper, after quite a considerable time.
           In 1939 with the establishment of an Independent Press Department in Afghanistan, a big step was taken forward quantitatively in expanding the press.
           In 1950 with the enforcement of the second press Law, an important step was taken to improve the quality of the Press. According to this Law, permission was granted for the publication of 10 newspapers in the capital and the provinces.
           With the commencement of the decade of democracy (1963- 197^ the tone of the official press also changed. In the first stage, although the newspapers were not yet published independently, critical articles started appearing in the
      newspapers Anis, ’Islah and Hewad and ground was prepared for a qualitative change.
           On 31 September 1964 when the constitution was approved by the Loya Jirgah* evary Afghan was given the right of the freedom of expression. In August 1965 the third Press Law was enforced which determined the sphere of activity as regards publications. In the liqht of this Law, a number of persons acquired the privilege of publishing private and party newspapers.
           Our modern-day publications emerged from the bloody Saur 1978 coup and were classified in two categories. Firstly, the communistic and Russian, publications and secondly, the publications of resistance and jehad.
           The      communists changed the daily Jamhooriyat into the              daily
      "Inqelab-e-Saur" (April Revolution) which, in pursuance of the communism program, praised the communist countries and their publications in their commentaries and condemned the others.
                                                                                   /
           The Russians divided the Ministry of Information and Culture into committees of news agency, press and publications, radio, television and cinematography. Then they divided the cultural wing into four sections and coordinated their activities with the central propaganda and publicity committee, so that the communists could bring the media under their total control and ensure its uniformity with the Russian set-up. The communists, besides implementing the Sovietization process in the publications, started publishing Russian newspapers and journals directly in Kaoul. .
           The Russian Cultural Center used to publish Pashtu and Dari journals entitled "Zalmyan" and "Jawanan". Another communist ideological journal entitled "Peace, Progress and Socialism" was published from Kabul. Two other Pashtu and Dari language magazines "^aiwastoon" (solidarity) and "Dosti" (friendship) were also published by them.
                                                   97
             july-septembeRf 1991                                filGIIIlNJHIIlfl                                     vol.   4  no.4
              Simultaneous with the communist coup, we started our resistance and jehadic publications as a jehad publicity alongside the armed jehad. For example, according to a statistics prepared by me 15 years ago in Afghanistan, the total number of periodicals did not exceed 196. But the data prepared by Mr. Nangyal five years ago pertaining to jehadic periodicals, which was completed by me, showed the, total number of jehadic periodicals as 236. when we study the past and present Afghanistan, we find many shortcomings. Therefore at first we ought to study the drawbacks and then we should take necessary steps for future planning.
                                                   I
              Mistakes can be redressed only when we take a lesson from them and try to avoid repeating them in future. Our future society,.after going through the transitory period, should be a free society and at the same time, the press of the future Afghan society should * fulfil our national and Islamic aspirations while securely safeguarding our social interests and freedoms.
              In the future Islamic society of our country, the press should function as the fourth pillar of the society, enjoying the right of freedom of expression.
              As regards official publicity, we should have a prominent publicity agency to deliver the daily newspapers on the same day to all parts of the country. The publications of every province should reflect the Culture and life of the same province and the professional publications should be devoted entirely to their relevant field of knowledge.
                                                  >
              All the publications should be controlled and owned by the people and the government should give them all necessary facilities and concessions so that the workers of, the press may perform their national duties with complete satisfaction.
                            THE PRE-SAUR COUP NON-GOVERNMENTAL PRESS SHAFIQ WEJOAN
              When we talk about private press and especially private newspapers, in fact* we have the freedom of expression in mind, because newspapers and all the media particularly the non-governmental one, are the means for reflecting the thoughts and writings of the people.
              The original free and independent newspapers emerged during the reign of Amanullah Khan, whereas even at that time more than half a century had passed since the establishment of "Shams-un-Nahar" as the premier newspaper in Afghanistan.
              Mahmood Tarzi and a number of constitutionalists of the time did not consider the official press such as "Seraj-ul-Akhbar" and later "Aman-e-Afghan" adequate enough to safeguard the spirit of independence and to preserve a healthy attitude towards the intrpdiiction of reforms for meeting the demands of national pride. Hence they paved the ground for non-governmental press at that time, in order to do away with the stereotype and rigid framework of the official press and to recast it in a fresh and unconventional mould.
              The first non-governmental newspaper "Anis"* was initiated by the late
                                                   98
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            AIGIIANJIHAO                    VOL- 4 NO-4
      Mohayyuddin Anis 5 May, 1927, in the light of these tendencies. Later, newspapers namely "Afghan" under the patronage of the late Payenda Mohammad Khan Farhat, "Nasim-e-S^har" edited by the late Ahmad Rateja Baqizadah. "Pashtoon Zagh" edited by the late Faiz Mohammad Nasseri and "Nowroze" under the patronage of the late Nowroze Khan illuminated the skies of the unofficial press like bright stars.                                                             '
           Shah Mahmood Khan, among other reforms, during his Premiership, enforced the Press Law" in 1950 opening a window for the freedom of thought. Consequently a number of un-official newspapers such as Angar, Neda-e-Khaiq, Watan, Nilab, Wulus and Aina from Kabul and Atome from Maimana appeared on the scene. In 1951 when Shah Mahmood Khan and the King himself felt concern about democracy and its consequences and repented encouraging it, these newspapers were unilaterally closed down. Thus the freedom of expression and non-governmental press were nailed in the coffin.
           In 1965’ during the premiership of Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, following the enforcement of a new Press Law, many non-governmental newspapers came into circulation.
           The point worth mentiofting about the topics discussed and lime-lighted in l.he then non-governmental newspapers,is that the authorities came to know of the shortcomings, injustices and complaints of the society through, the columns of these papers. If these papers referred to land reforms or fair distribution of wealth or called someone a spy or discussed rigging in the elections, they reflected the problems faced by the people and how they suffe'red from unfair dealings, how they felt strangulated and suffered the pangs of nonrepresentation in the affairs of the state. Therefore, the newspapers enjoying * » *
      the freedom of expression could ventilate their feelings. May be sometimes they exaggerated and sometimes under-stated the facts but obviously it was generally an expression of personal views rather than the public opinion.
           It may be pointed out that the non-governmental,newspapers particularly their news contents play a constructive role in the growth of democracy and cultural and in future the government should encourage such papers for cultural contribution. The best type of such institutions are those which emerge as limited companies so that they should have enough capital to compensate losses, if any. Such corporations, whether under individual control or party control, can protect the freedom of thought and expression and invest in various fields e.g. establishment of press and/or advertising agencies etc., so that loss in one sector may be compensated for by profits in the other.
                           A SHORT HISTORY OF RADIO IN AFGHANISTAN ZAREEN ANZOOR
           Radio broadcasts in Afghanistan started a long time ago. The foundation stone of Radio Afghanistan was laid in 1927 during the reign of Amanullah Khan, It is said that in the first phase, the Afghan government purchased two small transmitters and equipment one of which was installed in 1927 at Kabul and the other was planned to be set up in Kandahar. At that time such a station was not commissioned in many Asian countries.
                                                   99
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              flffillltNJIHAD                 VOL-  4 NO-4
              The Supreme Council of Ministers approved the purchase of one medium wave transmitter for £31,415 equivalent to 1,665,000 afghanis.
              In Kabul one technical institute for broadcasting was established for training 65 technical hands. In 1944 an experienced engineer of Radio Afghanistan, Ataullah went to Europe for higher training. The installation of a transmission center adjacent to the Headquarter or Telegraph Office at Yaka Toot and the construction work of the Central Studios in Bagh-e-Omoomi near the General Post Office was taken in hand. At the same time building of 15 relay centers in the provinces and divisions also commenced. According to an agreement
         with a German firm, the authorities concerned started importing necessary equipment. In mid-1935 the construction work and the import of equipment was in process and the installation of machinery had to be undertaken. Inspite of the war conditions in Europe, the technicians and personnel of the Telefunken Co. arrived in Kabul on time.
              In November 1939 the plant was assembled and in August 1940 it started trial broadcast. It was a short-wave transmitter of 20 kilowat output power. The total duration of broadcast was 4} hours 3} hours at night and one hour during daytime.
              In 1951 another short-wave transmitter was purchased: • The external services of Radio Kabul started its English programs in June;1951. At the same time a program in Baluchi also went on the air. In 1958 a 10 KWT short-wave transmitter was purchased and in 1959 a 50 KWT short-wave transmitter was also commissioned.
            . In 1959 the external services office was upgraded to the level of Directorate General. The program timings were also increased and English, French, Arabic and Urdu language programs were incorporated for foreign countries.
              In 1960 and 1962 the timing of the mid-day program was enhanced by half an hour. By that time Radio Kabul beamed programs for 12} hours during 24 hours.
              in 1966 the weli-^equipped Broadcasting House of Radio Afghanistan was inaugurated at Ansari Road, Gradually in accordance with the second Development Plan, the technical and broadcasting facilities of Radio Afghanistan expanded and due attention was paid to install relay stations and to initiate regional programs.
              By the year 1966 the total duration of daily programs was raised to 14 hours. Russian and German language programs were also added to the external service broadcasts ahd by 1967 the total duration of broad-casts went up to 15 hours.
           ' At the time of the coup staged by Daoud Khan in July 1973, Radio Afghanistan broadcasts did not undergo any significant change except that Radio Afghanistan was merged into the newly formed Ariana National Radio and Television of Afghanistan.
                                                   100
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     AfGIIANJIH/10                   VOL. 4 NO.4
            However since the early stages of the Saur Coup, the party members assumed complete control over the broadcasts. They appointed the Party (PDPA) members at the key posts in this organization and synchronized the broadcast material with the communist party's objectives. At a later stage, particularly after the Soviet invasion, many steps were taken to develop and update the radio programs. The radio station broadcast different programs on different frequencies simultaneously. The routine broadcasts began at six in the morning and continued till midnight. Local and external programs were broadcast in two separate sections.
            Following the Soviet invasion, when the number of emigrants increased, the Kabul regime inaugurated an independent radio station called the "Voice of the Homeland". Simultaneous with the Soviet incursion, the Soviet Army started another separate radio station called the "Afghan Radio Voice". It is said that the entire recording equipment and transmission apparatus were under the control of the Russian Military Officers and they produced the programs in such a way that it should boost up the morale of the soldiers and acquaint them with their military objectives. Subsequent to the Soviet withdrawal this radio station fell under the jurisdiction of the Afghan Ministry of Defence and continues to beam its programs. ■ y
            During the, recent years a series of programs entitled "The Celastial Voice" (Da Asmai Ghazh(Asmai is also the name of a mountain in Kabul City) have been initiated. In the beginning this series was broadcast on FM but later was beamed on short-wave too.
            Side by side with the central radio programs, steps were taken to establish regional radio stations in the provinces, as well. Therefore regional stations at Jalalabad, Kandahar, Herat, Balkh, Gardaiz, Khost and other provinces became functional and carried out their propaganda.
            I would like, inter alia, to mention another problem too. The various jehad parties and some fighters on the front have arranged radio broadcasts under the prevailing migration and jehad conditions, which are continuing till now. These radio stations are essentially war and guerrilla transmissions and broadcast very well^planned and interesting programs.
            If all the jehadic organizations and emigrants were united and could jointly run a central and well-planned radio station with strong transmitters, it would have made a great impact on the outside world in the background of the conditions in Afghanistan.                                           .
            We need more attention towards the development of radio broadcasts compared with other media, because unfortunately the rate of illiteracy is very high in our society and hence the number of newspaper and magazine readers is very limited.
                A CURSORY GLANCE AT CINEMA AND TELEVISION IN AFGHANISTAN
                                       SAMIA TAYYEBA SA1
            Television in Afghanistan is a new phenomenon. Its basic activities started with the 27th April coup and the puppet regimes in Kabul took advantage of this new and readymade medium for promoting their own policies in the political and social sectors.
                                                  101
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
              Not only the Afghan Television was not used as a means for healthy entertainment and public education, but mostly because on the one hand, it was a new born institution and on the other, due to the clamping down of all kinds of healthy and beneficial modes -of entertainment and forcing the people to stay at home owing to insecurity, it was utilized for telecasting ridiculous entertaining programs, in a futile effort to promote its popularity.
              This was the starting point of the prepostrous communist progress and the deviative Russification policy which proved the swan song of moral decadence in our society. But unfortunately they were not content with this situation and
            . i                                       .
         went a step further and treated the school students as their guinea pigs for such experiments which were aimed at misleading the youth towards moral corruption and obscenity. They coaxed and duped a large number of young male and female students mostly belonging to Muslim families, under the pretext of cultural or social activities and membership of such organizations, to take part in the TV - programs, even under threat or pressure on them or their parents. Consequently it^caused a social outcry and led to painful situations and strains among various families leaving bitter memories behind..
              Film industry is also in a nascent stage in our country compared to our neighbouring countries and has not much precedence!. Generally speaking except a few movies, film industry in its proper shape does not exist in our country. The first movie produced in our country in 1946 was entitled MIshq-o-Dosti" (Love and Friendship). But in the latter part of the decade of 70 some entrepreneurs started movie production. These films were influenced by the commercial Indo-Iranian movies and any valuable artistic movie worth mentioning here was not produced.
              As we are aware, the press      in general and television, radio and cinema in
        particular, can play a significant   role in the      projection and transmission of
        thoughts and ideas. One can use these means to spread moral education and character building programs or communicate nonsensical and ridiculous ideas to the people and lead the society to the deep abyss of moral degradation. Perhaps on the face of it, this argument may seem somewhat exaggerating but as stated earlier, its bitter experience has been observed in our country during the past decade.
              In the Islamic countries due to the absence of proper background and lack of initiative in visualizing a special pattern 6f TV programs, this sector has had no distinct direction and has been treated as a borrowed entity in the oriental society. Hence give and take a few exceptional cases, it has ignored the genuine spirit and colour of the East and simply produced a defective carbon copy of the Western Commercial movies and show business which is obviously visible in the  commercial movies     of India, Turkey and I(an.
              The Islamic Television should have        a characteristic         identity.
        Sensationalism, fictitious themes and unrealistic dramatization of the happenings in real life which are the products of some misleading cultures Should be totally given up and all sorts of glamorous and cosmetic productions with the sole purpose of attracting the viewers should be stopped.
                                                   102
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991____________AMUJlllllfl_______________ VOL. 4 NO.4
            Television should reflect the moral and human demands of the society and-should satisfy the reasonable and sensible needs of the people. But it should not be brought down to the lowest commercial level of cheap entertainment and satisfaction of the unfulfilled desires of the man in the street. The main aim should not be an effort to please everybody but to promote good taste and good style by educating the society in such a healthy manner that it should be able to solve its basic, and thorny problems.
         THE ESTABLISHMENT OF TELEVISION AND ITS RUSSIFICATION PROCESS IN AFGHANISTAN
                                            MIA ARWAL
            The 20th century has advanced in the field of scientific development on the one hand, to the nuclear fission and the computer and on the other, has brought about stupendous changes in the human society which today demands more facilities than the scientific technology can afford.
            The scope of Knowledge and information has expanded so much that it has changed the complexion of journalism in relation to the coverage of news and world events. In the past, it was said that the importance of an event or a news story was related to the degree of its proximity. But today the modern communication means have brought all the countries of the world closer together, from the technical angle. For example, if we take stock of the crimes committed by the Soviets and their stooges in Afghanistan, we dare say that supposing the Russians, equipped with most modern weapons, fire SCUD missiles in a couple of minutes from Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif to Khost and Kunar, the viewers and
                             .r*
        observers all over the world are informed of the deed through the media and condemn the perpetrators of the crime.
            In view of the exigencies of the twentieth century, our Islamic society too has the right to compete with the world and to avail the facilities for the protection of our national, Islamic and human rights.
            Our Islamic society, under the present crucial circumstances,is more than anything else in need of leading an honorable and dignified life and wants urgently to benefit from the positive and useful advantages of the media. Here digressing from other sectors, I would make brief references and then try to elaborate how the foreign agents led by their Russian overlords in our country have subjected our Muslim nation to psychological and mental pressures through the media of television.
            The puppet regime has trampled upon the rights of our Islamic nation and has curbed the freedom of press too. Moreover it has injected the communist poison in our media and made use of it just for its own survival. Whoever dared to raise his voice against the Russians, was strangled and martyred or sent to prison. They are either waiting for the establishment of a human and Islamic system of government or just like us are carrying on a crusade by writing, living the life of an emigrant.
            Under the Khalq regime, the Afghan Television either eulogized the Russians or praised the junta in power. Islamic and Afghan culture and norms were
                                                 103
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
        ignored* Dancing oi girls on the screen was considered as a sign of progress. Musical items were presented on the pattern of Indian songs.Immoral dramas by young boys and girls and other such unethical shows were presented Under the label of *"Art at the Service of the Masses". Writers, artists, men of letters and professional people were arrested, imprisoned or killed under this or that excuse and those fortunate enough to escape from their claws, migrated to other countries.
             The Russian advisers held their daily-policy making meetings and controlled the program schedule which was implemented, as they wished. Their only concern was to broadcast and telecast any story which was in their favor and which painted their crimes as help and assistance to the people.
             In early 1987, a Program Director was invited from Moscow to synchronize Kabul Television programs with the Russian Television.
             The Soviets had not occupied Afghanistan to give it back to the Afghans but God Almighty infused the spirit of jehad in the hearts of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and brought about the defeat of two super-powers in the 20th century and blessed us with victory.
             The Russians realized the effectiveness of television in this country because they were aware that the people had no other means of entertainment. They- saved the Kabul regime by means of propaganda and emphasized that other such centers should be established in the provinces.
             Although all the provinces have small radio stations, in 1987 the television network covered all Afghanistan including Badakhshan, Baghlan, Balkh, Jauzjan, Herat, Farah, Helmand, Kandahar, Khost, Gardaiz, Ghazni, Nangarhar and Kunar.
             As a matter of fact, the atheist regime in Kabul was not favored by the people, from the beginning that is why they resorted to armed resistance.
             The citizens of Kabul had all the telephone numbers of the officials, the chairman of the State Committee for Radio and Television, General Manager of the TV and other officers connected with the television department. No sooner did the TV program start than the telephones rang in their offices and homes and people abused them. One of them, Hyder Masood says, "after 6 P.M. I would not answer any call on the telephone, because one could not hear anything but abuse". Every night I heard hundreds of the worst abuses but couid not do anything about it".
                 THE ROLE OF TELEVISION IN THE FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY
                                    MOHAMMAD SHAFIQ WEJDAN
             It goes without saying that television as a medium in society is the new cultural phenomenon of the western countries. Today it is regarded as a great medium in the un-Islamic as well as Islamic countries of the world. Hence we ought to focus some attention to this medium and see whether or not the television can deliver the goods properly in the Islamic and non-Islamic countries?
                                                  104
VOL. 4 NO.4
         A clear-cut answer to this question would be rather difficult. The reason is that the television frequencies and signals like radio programs do. not recognize boundaries and are not hampered by geographical obstacles. Any home possessing a television set will find itself playing host to its electric waves. Its*programs are beamed irrespective of the fact whether it is being seen by the elders of the family or men, women or children. Now these frequencies carry with them desirable or undesirable programs, which are composed of dreadful scenes, nudity, unethical* items,and variety shows laced with propaganda and publicity items. These programs are cast for Hindus and Muslims alike. The innocent faces of children, good or bad intentions of the youth, conservative ideas, of the • elderly, chastity of women and intellectual standards of scientists and
     intelligentsia have no meaning for them because the owners of the Western television networks believe in making profit and present those items which are liked by the viewers at large. No doubt the media today is a conveyer belt of ideas and thoughts.
          In the 19th century, peoply thought that colonialism assails a country through trade and commerce but today it penetrates a country through radio and TV programs, journalistic art, movies and video films. Therefore faced With such a competition, the moral standards, cultural values, characteristics, politics and economic systems of smaller countries are threatened on many fronts. Television as an information medium poses no danger to the Muslim or non-Muslim societies. The basic question is, how can a country synchronize its TV programs with its particular national and religious values and keep it away from negative moral values.
          If we think on these lines and chalk out a plan as to who should produce and prepare the programs; what sort of subject matter should they contain and to wh.om these programs should be projected, then we will be able to outline our television programs on Islamic lines.
          Here we should distinguish between prejudice * and preservation of national and beneficial values. Prejudice means isolating oneself from the worldly life and rejecting all scientific .or foreign programs. In order to safeguard national interests it would be better to edit all foreign movies and shows before telecasting them. We ought to accept all such movies and programs which may be consonant with our national and Islamic spirit and reject the rest. This practice is consideried lawful in many a country and should* not be confused with bias or prejudice.
          The other chunk of the programs should be educative and ethical. Floor shows, skits, dramas and short feature films, having entertainment value as well, play a significant role in character building. We can convey moral, social and cultural messages through such programs. Islamic history is replete with inspiring stories and great deeds of imposing personalities.
          In today's world, governments are duty-bound to remove the difficulties of the society and solve the problems of the people. Although introducing reforms, new ways of life and modernization of society by imitating others is an easy way out but if these reforms are not in compliance with the cultural and traditional values of a society then they would prove superficial, baseless, alien.
    JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     fl[GII(lN
                                                105
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                 fllfillflHJIHAfl                                                VOL. 4 N0.4
          defective and transitory and would collapse like a house of cards. In our country the best examples of such experiments are, the reforms introduced by Amanullah Khan and the communist junta.
               It may be pointed out that radio and television play a vital role in every society particularly in semi-literate societies like the Afghan society and can render valuable audio-visual service to the coming Afghan generation.
               However, such a thing would be possible only under the condition that we do not make use of this medium just for ostentation or imitation. Rather it should be put to proper use in the light of genuine Islamic culture on a broader scale. Another thing to remember is that the television producers must keep in mind two points i.e. Shariat (the Islamic Code) and the social custom. In many programs relating to womenfolk, these two points should be strictly observed, because quite possibly one thing may be permissible according to the custom but may be prohibited by Shariat or vice versa. For instance, a husband can kiss his wife according to Shariat, but social custom or norm will not permit him to do so in front of the camera. Producers of the Islam television in future Afghanistan should keep these things in view and avoid showing anything on the TV screen which may be repugnant to any principle of Shariat or public morality. Television has a vast field for screening scenic beauties and classic arts and useful phenomena1 and can avoid showing pornographic movies and immoral features.
                    PROGRAMMING OF RADIO AND TELEVISION IN AFGHANISTAN
                                         SHAH AQA MAJIDI
               The press as well as all the organs reflecting the internal and external events and happenings in a free and independent Afghanistan, would have a very heavy and serious responsibility to enlighten the public opinion and alongwith the press, the radio and the television will have to play an effective role.
               Duties and aims of broadcasts and telecasts in the future Afghanistan life, containing news and information, literary material, entertainment and enlightenment programs, ought to be in line with Islamic injunctions, national aspirations, social norms, urge for better conditions, appreciation of social and political stands and the necessity for national development.
               As regards children's programs especially for enlightenment and mental growth of the children of this war-torn country who have been living in alien lands far from the homeland and away from the warmth of their own cultural environment, it is essential that easily understandable material pertaining to the. history and culture of the homeland and their social norms and manners be presented in an attractive manner to the children in order to- mentally prepare ■tjiem for the reconstruction work.
               Radio clubs should be established in the distant corners of the country devoid of electric power, with, radio sets equipped with battery or generators, so that the local people may gather a while and listen to their favorite programs.
                                                    106
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
             Radio, television and the press should expand the intellectual horizon of the people in tomorrow's Afghanistan and perform their national duties for a better future.
                                            DISCUSSIONS
        BASHAR: Mr. Rafi, while mentioning the emergence of the printing press in Afghanistan, has added that these printing presses came into existance during the reign of Amir Sher Ali Khan. I am of the opinion that their brief history should also have been mentioned e.g. when was the lithographic press invented and what was the year of typographic press's invention etc..
             Similarly during the reign of Amir Sher Ali Khan, Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani, due to some prevailing circumstances, left the country and founded a revolutionary newspaper called Orwat-ul-Wusqa in Europe. Mr. Rafi should have mentioned it in his article.
        RAFI: The lithographic press was established for the first time at Balahessar, Kabul, at the time of the reign of Sher Ali Khan. It was named Mustafawi Press for printing postal stamps and religious and military books. The typographical press started printing for the first time during the reign of Amir Habibullah Khan.
             As regards Orwat-ul-Wusqa journal, I referred to Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani in the early part of my article. I have written that the idea of publications in Afghanistan was enshrined in the reformative programs of the genius of the East, Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghani1 who had conveyed this idea to Amir Sher Ali Khan before leaving Afghanistan. At that time, of course, Sayyed Jamaluddin Afghan was not thinking in terms of Orwat-ul-Wusqa but his thoughts were focussed on introducing the institution of the press in Afghanistan.
        KUSHKAKI: Mr. Rafi has mentioned in his article that during the Russian invasion on Czechoslovakia, the Parcham Party members requested their overlords (the Russians) to put pressure on the Afghan government to blackout news about the invasion. He should offer the source of this story in the article.
        RAFI: Czechoslovakia was invaded at a time when Afghanistan was celebrating its independence anniversary. The official newspapers as well as the independent press published the story of the event and people showed great interest. All the efforts of the Parchamites to defend this Russian action were fruitless and people did not pay any heed to them. At last, a Russian named "Veryankov" arrived in Kabul and visited many departments and held discussions. Therefore it is surmised that perhaps when the Parchamites found themselves unable to blackout the above-mentioned news story, they asked the Russians to take the initiative in this case.
        SAMIM: As religious scholars and learned journalists are attending this meeting, it would be in the fitness of things if some decisions are taken about the future set-up and mode of work of radio and television.
        MUJADDEDI: We had stated on the very first day that radio, television and cinema
                                                   107
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
         would play a significant role in i_he reformation program of the Afghan society. But the important question is about their permissibility and legitimacy from the Islamic standpoint and not the modality of their proper utilization.
                                       . ARTICLES A LOOK AT THE RESISTANCE MOVEMENT JOURNALISM ABDUL BARI NANGYAL
              Subsequent to the ignominous and bloody Saur (April) coup, the resistance movement fought against the Russian puppet regime on the cultural front. The jehad organizations outside the country started publishing their own news stories and communiques which began by newspapers and culminated in magazines and -weeklies.
              The jehadic publications appeared on the scene with the publication of "Shahadat" and "Mujahed". The first issue of the daily "Shahadat" was published one month before the bloody Saur Coup in March 1978 and was clandestinely distributed in Kabul. Thus "Shahadat" can be described as the first jehadic journal in the field of journalism.                                      •
              The daily "Mujahed" was published after the 27 April, 1978 coup. Hence it can be said that the publication of the jehadic newspapers started with these dailies. Although prior to this also some magazines were published in 1975, the fact is that the jehadic journalism was in its embryonic stage in early 1978 which shaped itself in the form of Shahadat and Mujahed.
              In the beginning "Shahadat" contained mostly superficial commentaries and publicity material but later it acquired various dimensions and its articles and commentaries were written in a new style and a mature way. Sometimes poems were also published.
              Since the beginning of jehad publications, interviews and pictures and messages and press released by the leaders of the parties have been given due prominence.                                                              ,
              The daily "Mujahed" has also gone forward step by step. Although till now it has not found the opportunity to be published on schedule and has to wait for compilation, the fact remains that right, from the start it has contained worth-while commentaries and informative reading material. From the journalistic point of view, too, it has maintained very good standard from the beginning, keeping a safe distance from partisian leanings amd avoiding disputable topics.
              The HIA (Khales) journal "Al-Noor" was published once a week for a long time but from the journalistic angle of newspaper writing, it had some drawbacks.
              In Pakistan, besides jehad organizations some other circles .too published magazines e.g. "Afghan Mellat" and "Istiqlal" but generally these were not upto the mark.
              The leftist groups (Maoists) also owned some publications like
                                                   108
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             flfGllflHJlHIlfl                     VOL. 4 NO.4
      "Payam-e-Zan" (women's Message) and "Faryad-e-Mujahed" (Lament- of the Mujahed) which are, of coarse, not worth mentioning here.
           Side by side with these publications, ethnic groups published periodicals under the title of magazines and some shopkeepers initiated them in the name of the ex-King. But these publications do not fall in the framework of journalism.
           Party magazines such as ''Shafaq" (Twilight) and "Meesaqe-e-Khoon"(covenant of Blood) were the forerunners of regular magazine publications. However, jehad parties and other Afghan institutions published miscellaneous types of journals.
           The Afghan refugees, jehad parties and some individuals have published periodicals in Pakistan, Iran, USA, Europe, India and some other countries but most of them have no fixed schedule. Some of them survived for a short while and SQme. others are published by fits and starts. For example a party paper captioned "Rah-e-Haq" (Path of Truth) used to be published in Dari language from Iran but it has stopped publishing since many years. The JIA has two journals entitled "Inqelab-e-Islami” (Islamic Revolution) and "Daneshjoo" (Student) which continue to be published till now..
                                                           I
           The Shia Afghans too have some publications, some of which are financed by Iran. In Iran, jehadic journals such as Hablullah (God's Trust), Esteqamat (Perseverence), Payam-e-Jehad (Message of Jehad), Payam-e-Shohada (Message of the. Martyrs) and Adalat (Justice) are published, which devote more attention to Iran, statements of Iranian leaders and policies of Iranian leadership than-the Afghan problem. *
           The existing political parties namely JIA, HI A, NIFA, NLFA and the Cultural Council of Afghan Resistance (which is an independent organization)publish journals and magazines in English language.
           If we compare our today's press with the past decade's journalistic output, we will find a tremendous development. However, the role of developed and advanced technology cannot be ruled out. Computer has modernized the press. The past 12 years' practical experience and persistent work in this field- have shaped seasoned and trained personnel for the Islamic revolution.
           The development of the jehadic press despite conditions of expatriation, immigration, empty handed struggle against a superpower, hardships of the 12 .years war and foreign pressures is really not only satisfactory but has contributed wondrously to the cultural pattern of a • crusading nation, serving as a beacon in the dreary gloom of an unequal and gory war. According to a Dari proverb, "If the house is burnt, the bricks are well baked".
                 A GLANCE AT THE MUJAHEDDIN PUBLICATIONS IN IRAN MOHAMMAD AKBAR ASHEEQ
           After the downfall of the democratic government and coming into power of Noor Mohammad Taraki as the President, the world at large and especially the neighbouring countries were closely                 watching the development and its
      consequences. A little later our heroic people resorted to armed resistance and raised their voice of protest against the puppet regime.
                                               109
         JULY-SEPTEMBER*. 1991             UHlllMJUMP_______________ VOL. 4 NO.4
              Afghan    religious students of Meshed started   publishing   a periodical
         entitled "Groh-e-Ibrat wa Ketab" (Lovers of the Family of the Holy Prophet and the Quran)      with the assistance of the Meshed Religious Academies.     After
         publishing three issues df this periodical# they joined the Harakat-e-Islami led by Ayatullah Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni.
              Meanwhile various political groups such as                 Payam-e-Mohajer,
         Harakat-e-Islami# JIA# Jamiat-e-Ulama, NLFA, Mahaz-e-Melli# Sazman-e-Nasr-e-Afghanistan    and later the Alliance Council started  functioning in the  host,
         country.
              From the literary point of view# a major portion of the literary writings# during this period# was in essence related to the political events of the time. In the midst of the     freedom struggle, the Afghan   literature  emerged  as a
         political and bellicose narrative not in the shape of books but in the form of newspapers and magazines. Hence journalism is still regarded as a literary indicator of that decade.
              In the epic poetry of this period, war and vendetta which were the pivot of most of the events# do not take place like other warfares in the human society, for self-glorification and establishing of one's superiority over others but for performing a sacred duty for the attainment of high and noble ideals. The epic verses depict the sword as defender of human dignity and moral values.
              This decade.has witnessed a sort of literary decline and retardment which could be an off-shoot of three causes:
         a)   The party leaders are mostly fundamentalists and being followers of party ideology, are not interested in poetry or literature and do not evince much interest in this connection.
         b)   Everyone is so much enchanted by Western languages and Western' civilization that there is no room for attending to our social and literary activities.
         C) Last but not the least# party conflicts# maligning of intellectuals and casting aspersions on one another take so much of our time that we do not find any time to devote our attention to literary activities which is the root of all cultural growth in the country.
                                 COMMUNIST PRESS IN AFGHANISTAN HABIB-UR-RAHMAN HALA
                                            I
              After the withdrawal of the British rulers from the subcontinent and the death of Hashem Khan# the Afghan Royal Family deemed it fit to revise the old policies# in view, of the changed perspective# and adopt a new and more independent policy. In order to wipe out the memories of Hashem Khan's dictatorship from the public mind# the New Premier Shah Mahmood Khan introduced himself as a democrat. Keeping in view the demands of the new policy# he allowed a limited political freedom such as the formation of students' union# holding of parliamentary elections and establishment of political newspapers. Therefore in 1951 the dailies Neda-e-Khalq (Voice of the People), Watan (Homeland)and Angar
                                                   110
        JULV-SEPTEMBER, 1991              MGIWHJIHflO_____________________ VOL.  4        NO-4
        (Imagination) were brought out as political group otyans.
             It was at this juncture that the Soviets availed the opportunity of filling the political vacuum by employing a number of University students including Babrak Karmal, Noor Mohammad Noor, Shah Mohammad Dost and Keshtmand and sowed the unholy seeds of their dirty ideology in the pure and clean territory of Afghanistan.
             But owing to the fact that the Af ghans ,‘like other back-ward people, instead of taking reasonable advantage of these freedoms in the field of politics, adopted a scandalous and irresponsible attitude which alarmed the royal dynesty. Then the government clamped down the limited freedom by throwing the leaders and activists of the political groups in prison and by closing down the political newspapers.
             Daoud Khan being pre-occupied with streamlining the army and development of the country's economy, noticed only the positive aspects of the Russian assistance but did not notice its negative aspects or just ignored them. He was quite satisfied with equipping the armed forces with modern weapons and financing the development projects but did not pay any heed to the grave consequences of sending thousands of young men to the socialist countries for being brain-washed accordingly.
             The PDPA could not dissociate the press from the government, like other communist countries, and put it under the direct control of the party. Therefore the press, as     in the  past, remained confined     within the framework      of the
        Ministry of Information and culture and under the influence of the government. While the party members controlled the broadcasting and telecasting media, the only important change in the form and shape of the press, was its merger with the radio and television department.
             The important ideological change in the press, was the abolishment of the official   newspaper "Jamhooriyat"      (Democracy) and circulation of             the
        "Inqelab-e-Saur" (April Revolution) as the publicity organ of the PDPA.
             After the black day of 27 December 1979 when the USSR invaded Afghanistan# Babrak Karmal    and the  pro-Taraki Khalq party members seeking refuge         in the
        Soviet Embassy during the               Amin government,  were  appointed on party and
        government posts. Thus the Russians held the              reins of power and Afghanistan
        became a Soviet colony.
             At this time the press department was directly controlled by the Soviet advisors and nothing could be published without their permission. They tried their best to    present  an exact replica  of the     Soviet press. Hence      in the
        beginning, the  Ministry  of Information and Culture was abolished and its varigug
        sections were merged with the Central Committee of the PDPA.
             Ap the actual power in Afghanistan was in the hands of the Soviet "advisors", they sought to             place  the Afghan  press in the framework of the
        Marxist-Leninis.t model so that the         press should become not only a mouth~piece of
        the Marxist-Lenini,st ideology but also should project the Soviet aggression as
                                   ni
ill
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
          an international assistance and introduce the Soviets as the real friends of the Afghan people.
               The press, during the so-called evolutionary period of the Saur Revolution, underwent profound transformation, in appearance and in content. The daily "Inqelab-e-Saur" under the changed title of "Haqiqat-e-Inqela'b-e-Saur" (The
          truth of the April Revolution) continued its ideological propaganda as the mouthpiece of the PDPA. In this way this daily by adding the prefix of "Truth", which is the translation of the Russian word 'Pravda', was further imbued with the Russian color and developed a tendency to walk on the Russian crutches.
               The Russians were not content with controlling and taking propaganda advantage of the so-called Afghan publications but resorted to directly publish the daily "Jawanan-e-Imroze" (Today's Youth) and the magazine "Solh, Taraqqi Via Socialism" (Peace, Progress and Socialism) inside the Afghan territory. Besides a large number of Russian publications were put on sale in the book stalls of the country.
               The Afghan press continued its Russification policy and preaching of communist ideology in Afghanistan till the rise of Gorbachev in USSR and the coming into power of Najib in this country, as discussed above. But subsequent to the military and ideological defeat of the Soviet'Union in Afghanistan, the new policies of presteroika' (reconstruction) and Glasnost (openness) were adopted in the USSR and on Soviet instruction the policy of national reconciliation was initiated in Afghanistan.
               In the light of the reconciliation policy, the Ministry of Information and Culture was revived prior to the emergence of the communists. Therefore all the official committees looking after the press and publications were separated from the central committee of the PDPA (renamed Watan Party) and placed in the framework of the Ministry of Culture and Information. All the publications, except the daily "Haqiqat-e-Inqelab-e-Saur" (renamed Payam i.e. Message) which retained its position as the publicity organ of the Watan Party, discarded their party affiliations and continued their activity, as before, within the framework of the Ministry of Information and Culture, apparently remaining neutral.
               The future Afghan society needs to be rid of innumerable dissensions imposed on the Afghans from outside. Such dissensions can be removed only by a Strong and united national press in the country.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
          MAJIDI: Mr. Nangyal has used the word "compose" in his article relating to the printing of the journal "shahadat". When we talk about newspapers and journals, J think the term "compose" would be redundant.
          NANGYAL: In the printing houseg of Pakistan, the term "composing" is very
          commonly used for printing newspapers and journals and the whole process is normally called "composition".
          BASHAR: Mr.  Nangyal's article is praise-worthy because he has provided
Ill
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
       comprehensive information aoout the jehadic publications. However I wonder if he has made a mention of the newspaper Akhbar-e-Azadi edited by Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad at Quetta. It is one of the jehadic publications and should be mentioned in this context.
       NANGYAL: At the conclusion of my article, I have recorded a bibliography of all jehadic publications numbering 299 which include 188 newspapers and 111 magazines.
         A SHORT HISTORY OF MOVIE PRODUCTION AND ITS FUTURE IN THE ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN
                                         YOUSUF AEENA
            The foundation stone of a' film industy in our country was laid by the premier production of a documentary entitled "Ishq-wa-Dosti" (Love and Friendship). And when Abdul Sattar Shalezay was the acting Director General of the Press Department, a foreign movie cameraman visited Kabul and trained Mohammad Akbar Shalezay in this art. At this time the concept of establishing a small film production center originated in the Press Department.
             This center took shap under the chairmanship of the late Maiwandwal. It was headed by Akbar Shalezay, Samad Assefi who was educated in Germany and specialized in cameramanship, cooperated with him in Afghan Film productions. A number of amateur and talented young men gathered in this center. When Mahmood Habibi was the Minister a feature film "Rozgaran" was produced by this center, which had many shortcomings.
             In' this connection, mention may be made of the inauguration of a Training Center, though on a small scale, in the Publicity Department of the Ministry of Agriculture by an American named Prof. Kresty for producing documentaries related to agriculture and animal husbandry.
             This department obtained documentary films based on guidance, general knowledge and rural science from the Cultural Centers of USA, Germany and Iran dubbed in Pashtu and Dari languages and screened them in the far flung areas and towns of Afghanistan.
             An Islamic government is obliged to undertake Islamic enlightenment within the framework of Islamic laws in a clear and understandable manner.
             Here we describe the modality of 1 such a useful activity* especially for societies lacking literacy and cultural activities:
             To create a sense of equality among the Muslim nation; to eliminate the signs of arrogance and superiority complex and ethnic prejudices and privileges such as titles and honorific designations; to do away with racial and ancestral prides; to encourage moral character; to discourage indecent behavior and to expose the causes of corruption in the Islamic world. Moreover to dispel other materialistic distinctions, to discourage rat-race and unnecessary rivalries, to forestall all sorts of encroachments on others^ rights and properties etc, to ensure individual immunity and to
        JULY-SEPTEMBER 1991              MfilMN JIHHO                     VOL-  4  NO-4
             observe and respect ethical values ana social norms and to have compassion and regard for each other.                          '
             To provide guidance to all professions, private and public, to perform their professional duties with honesty and sincerity and to highlight moral values vis-a-vis materialistic deceptions.
                                            •                  i
             To initiate reformative movements consonent with the essence of Islam and the contemporary exigencies so that thewestern cultural and technical patterns are placed at the service of Islam as well as to foster the Islamic ego and to ensure regard and respect for every individual and to arrange for psychological self-assessment.
             We should depict our ancestors' jehad for the recovery of independence and beating back of the British and the Russians from our territory. In this connection the recent events of the jehad, from the Russian invasion to its withdrawal and its consequences have gjreat importance for the coming generations, reminding them of the heroic and glorious deeds of our freedom fighters. Such stories and movies infuse the spirit of resistance, fight and sacrifice for the sake of religion, freedom and Islamic honor because we need dynamic sentiments and ideas.
             A film is usually a means of collective education. It serves the purpose of a teaching institution and a teacher. It is not a mere medium of amoral sensuality, indulgence and debauchery. It should be purged clean of all sorts of sexual attractions, erotic dances, jarring noises and demoralizing scenes and romantic acting.
             A society devoid of faith and belief in morality and lacking a specific aim and ideal, and deprived of spiritual dynamism, cannot create a genuine and humanitarian art to be able to draw the attention of each and every individual to decency, dignity of human being and the real humanitarian Essence.
             The western crime stories, amoral adventurism, gangsterism, manslaughter, violence, robberies, shameful and base sex crimes, sexual perversions, drug addiction and hundreds of other obscenities in the movies are influencing the modern generations all over the world. Such films mislead the youth from the most tender age and destroy them morally. These stories strike at the roots of human bonds and lead the people towards basic and raw animal instincts, turning them into blood thirsty beasts.
             It is desired that such elements be outrightly eliminated to ensure a clean and healthy Islamic environment in our country. A healthy and thought-provoking film industry and audio-visual productions in the future Islamic State of Afghanistan can serve the purpose of a mobile and dynamic educational institution on a permanent basis.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
        RAHIMI: I think it would be pre-mature to discuss art films at this would be better if educational films were discussed here.
                                                 114
juncture. It
      JULY - SEPTEMBER * 1991          MKIIAN JHIAO *                  VOL-  4 NO.4
      RUSHKAKI: We should discuss art and feature films in detail to know whether it would be permissible from the Islamic point of view, to have film industry in Afghanistan? In the Islamic countries, the films do not have complete Islamic characteristics or Islamic style. They have not produced any such film so far. What we want to know is, that because plays arid dramas are the integral part of communication in today's life, woudl it be possible to present plays and dramas on radio, television and video in future Afghanistan? If it is possible, then in view of the fact that woman is an iessential part of our everyday life being a , mother, a wife or a daughter arid their existence cannot be denied, could we allow the women to play a role in plays and dramas depicting Islamic subjects?
      MUJADDEDIr Female participation in plays and dramas is prohibited and presence of women in male gatherings, unless unavoidable, is not necessary. For example, a woman patient does not find a female physician for her medical treatment and has no other alternative but to visit a male physician. .This is permissible because it is a case of emergency and there is no way out.' But I do not think that we are faced with such a contingency that we must allow the women to act in a movie or take part in a drama, to solve our urgent problems.     v
                                         ARTICLES THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN THE PRESS FATEMA UMM-E-ABDULLAH
           We use our tongue and our pen to communicate Our ideas. These are the two most valuable things which we cannot fully describe and our entire vocabulary and our writings cannot do justice to their worth and value. GOd Almighty swears by the pen and says in the Holy Quran:   ”... By the. Pen and by the Record which
      (men) write." (Surah Al-Qalam: Verse 1).                                  .
           God has made the pen as a means for education. Man, by nature, has a great need for knowledge and on the .other hand because man is a social animal, he cannot live alone. He has to live in society and society cannot exist without the cooperation and coordination of its individual members.
           As regards womenfolk, irrespective of what the others say or write in this connection, the fact remains that women constitute half of the human society and plays her role in different dimensions in the social set-up proportionately.
           Therefore if women are misled and if they go astray and their talents are stifled, it means that half of the society has gone astray or has been paralyzed and vice-versa.                                             ,
           The Islamic history is replete with the accounts of great and respectable female personalities who were great narrators of the traditions of the Holy Prophet, famous literary figures and renowned calligraphists. The leading figure, in this regard, was the wife of the Prophet Aesha Siddiqah, may Allah bless her soul. She was a narrator of the traditions of the Holy Prophet, a scholar, an intellectual and a writer. History has recorded the letters written by^ her to Hazrat Ali, may Allah bless Him, and the replies received by her.
                                                115
          julv-september, 1991              MCHMJHiflfl                     vol.  4 no.4
               Women have a great mission to perform in the construction of the country and preaching the word of God and they should shoulder this responsibility with full faith and honesty.
               The important point is that the essence of the Islamic revolution should be kept in mind, in all affairs. What I mean to say is that the media ought to be Islamized and brought upto. the Islamic standards. The present day media is nothing but a means to serve the enemies of Islam and to safeguard the interests of the colonialists. The popular books and magazines are- full of romantic stories ridiculing womenhood and portraying her as a plaything for sex-maniacs and play bpys. Coquettish, and licentious, women have put themselves at the disposal of traders in sex and have sacrificed their chastity and repute at the altar of the materialistic interests of the capitalists and have allowed themselves to be traded commercially in .order to attract more and more customers,.
               We hope that with the establishment of the Islamic system in our country, women would be provided an opportunity to contribute to scientific and academic writings and research work to render a worthwhile service to Islam. All the books and journals containing immoral contents and degrading the female sex, should be banned.
               Radio' and Television should present programs consonant with Islamic requirements and should not use women to attract the epicurus and the pleasure-seekers. Women should not be allowed to appear on the TV screen without proper veil and dress. The women folk should observe the Divine Command of enjoin what is right and forbid what is wrong in all the assemblies and gatherings of the fair sex, according to the Islamic norms and practices.
               Women should know themselves and should feel their responsibilities and should not allow themselves to be used as toys for the play boys.
                                             DISCUSSIONS
           RAHIMI:  In the article written by our sister (Fatima), there are certain points
           to which I totally agree. Our sister has stated that women constitute half of our society and this is a reality. In future when Afghanistan would undertake reconstruction work, after a long period of stagnation, would it not be better to utilize the -entire human power instead of half of the human power?Here this point needs more attention.
           HALA:  Mr. Rahimi has said that women constitute half ofc our society. I would
           like to add that this was a ratio in the past, but at present women form more than half of our society and due to the recent .misfortunes, many are widowed, many others are disabled or maimed, many have lost their children and are leading a miserable life.
                In future Afghanistan when an Islamic government is established, women should be given priority and their rights should be redeemed.
                                                       116
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991              MGjlflJIJlllllfl                  VOL.  4 NO.4
                                             ARTICLES LANGUAGE OF THE PRESS ABDUL JALEEL WAJDI
              During the constitutional movement and particularly after the era of "Weish Zalmyan" two phrases were often noticed in journalistic writings e.g. 'press is the mirror of the society' and.'press is the tongue of the nation'. If the press reflects the social conditions truly and faithfully and states the facts in the common parlance of the people, then we can say that the press and its language contribute a lot to the evolution of the national language and the reflection of social problems.
              Simple, clear and iucid language, as recommended by the men of letters, is the language of the press. But sometimes the subject matters and the thought frames create    a distance between the        two types   of language and
         differentiate the language of literature from the language of news reporting.
              So far as reflection of facts and realities is concerned inspite of the fact that the paths of these two types of 'language or writing styles are separate and distinct from each other, yet their object and purpose is the same. The literary style creates a precious painting in order to portray a feeling but the journalistic style of writing aims at directly reflecting the fact as it is. If inhibitions may not create obstacles in their path, then the barriers and distances between the two styles of writing may be reduced or minimised and both may merge into one style.
              In Afghanistan during the second quarter of the twentieth century, for a short internal, the atmosphere of strangulation and suffocation dissolved relatively.^The people   heard the King uttering      such words  which provided a
         favorable and historic   opportunity for the press.    The  King told the nation's
         representatives in the Loya Jirgah:
              "You should not keep silent, like the past, but should state the facts. Do not keep mum and stupefied in the face of problems encountered by you but do not be misled by the din and noise created by the enemies and do not adopt an antagonistic attitude towards all the efforts made by the government for your welfare..."
              In the course of ten years' rule of the constitution when the press obtained a number of freedoms, it played a negligible role due to inexperience ahd paucity of technical and professional hands.
              The journalistic    style of writing in the  previous        period developed
         alongside the other media and had the following characteristics:
         1.. A good style of writing means short sentences well connected with, each other in a lucid manner; These sentences ought to be composed of short phrases with clear meaning and easy pronounciation.
         2. The paragraphs should be compendious and self-contained. So much so that if
                                                   117
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
III
VOL. 4 NO.4
               daring writing an article, one of the paras is deleted, the text as a whole
               ought not suffer.
               In the process of Islamization of politics by the jehad organisations, our people have come across new terminologies in Dari language such as arrogance, bondage and 'satanic powers. Some of the people interpret the new terminologies in different ways. For example, the term *Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd' (knowledgeable/ sagacious persons) has different connotations among different people.
               This is an important point because in the future legal system of Afghanistan, such ambiguities should be ironed out. Scholars should do some research work regarding new legal, Islamic juristic, political and economic terminologies and provide such words or terms for the press whiah may be easy and digestible for the common man. In this way the people will get rid of vague and ambiguous words which tend to create confusion in social circles.
               Needless to say that literary ambiguities have not only created problem's for us but for other countries too. However, our difficulties are greater in proportion to the others. The literary and cultural institutions should pay special attention to this subject. It is proposed that the Afghan jehad quarterly, published by the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance, should apportion some pages for this purpose in order to remove the ambiguities.
                             JOURNALISM EDUCATION IN AFGHANISTAN PROFESSOR HALA
               The media, in the opinion of Marshal McLohan, a renowned Canadian scholar, have a great impact on the cultural and social growth of human societies. He has discussed this point in his famous book "Gotenberg Milky Way" dividing it into three phases:.
               (i)   The era of audio culture.
               (ii) The era of video culture.
               (iii) The era of audio-visual culture.
               Keeping in view the reality that the media play a significant role in the speedy transmission of information, and latest knowledge and exchange of idea-leading to the enhancement of general awareness, the present day scholars have named the modern age as the age of media, requiring each and every individual, particularly the journalists and statesmen, to have a scientific knowledge of the media and utilize it properly.
               Therefore in various countries, in proportion to their social conditions and the standard of _development, the media are being scientifically studied and utilized. In order to develop an effective media, almost all countries have established training institutions.
               More than a hundred years ago, the newspaper was introduced in Afghanistan as a cultural phenomenon of the West but the proper training of the journalists in. this discipline started during the Second World War.               '
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         fldlllllNJ[HAO             VOL.  4 N0.4
          As a result of the First Five Years Development Plan, a relative growth was witnessed in the press in this country. During the final year of this plan, for the first time, a refresher course was initiated at the Press Department, to acquaint greater number of our journalists with the trends of modern journalism.
          In 1960 a commission consisting of specialists in journalism, Deans of the College of Law and Political Science and College of Literature and Human Studies, was ordered to propose a plan for the establishment of a Department of Journalism within the framework of Kabul University. Its proposals were approved in 1961 by the University Senate and the Department of Journalism was established in the College of Literature and Human Studies.
          The first batch   of   graduates of the Department  of   Journalism joined the
     press in our country   in    1965 and thus the door    for modern journalism opened
     wider in our press.
          The teaching of journalism in accordance with the American system continued till 1978. Then the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan assumed power by military force and tried to make use of the press in such a way that it may ensure its own survival and strength.
          As the development of the ideological press required acquaintance with the modality of the ideological publications alongwith the party loyalty, the PDPA resorted to miscellaneous measures to achieve this end. For example, it took the following steps:
     (i)  Reconstructing the    Department of     Journalism in the Kabul University and
          establishment of  the Faculty   of      Journalism in the  Institute of Social
          Studies managed by the Party's Central Committee.
     (ii) Sending of young .party members to the socialist states for higher studies in different disciplines of journalism.
     (iii) Initiating courses and seminars by the Union of Journalists and practical training of journalists, by employing professional journalists belonging to the Iranian Tudeh Party and Fedaeyari-e-Khalq Party.
          However, after the downfall of the Khalq faction and coming into power of the Parcham faction, the actual authority and management in the educational field rested with the Russian advisers. In the meantime, the Russian advisers who were mostly Tadjiks, once more attempted to Russify the academic syllabus. But owing to the fact that the Khalq faction was still dominating the university, the advisers and the Parchamites could not introduce the new
     syllabus till the Chancellorship of Aziz-ur-Rahman Saeedi.
                                                      s                     ‘ ' ■■ -V- I
          Throughout the years since formal journalism education started in Afghanistan we have witnessed a number of shortcomings.
          In order to introduce more educated, more knowledgeable and consequently more useful journalists to the press, as I have personally observed and felt the training difficulties from the time of the establishment of Department of
                                              119
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          IlfflllflfljM                      VOL. 4 NO.4
        Journlism till recent years, from close quarters, it is proposed that in future instead of American and the Russian models of education, the Pakistani model of education be kept in view. Howeveir in the Pakistani model, the BA course, being more costly and less fruitful, should be eliminated and instead the post-graduated Master of Arts degree be maintained.
            The candidate for the Master's degree, besides possessing high marks percentage in the previous degree examination, should pass the journalistic optitude test. The pre-admission test should contain such questions which may determine the writing aptitude, general knowledge, level of studies in history, geography and culture as well as awareness of the current affairs of the candidate in question.
            For the Master's degree four semesters of 4\ months duration i.e. for professional subjects one semester, for thesis writing one semester, for teaching the principles of research one semester and for practice in journalism one semester should be envisaged. The last semester should be conducted with the active cooperation and participation of the Ministry of Information and Culture.
                              BOOK PUBLICATION IN AFGHANISTAN HABIBULLAH RAFI •
            The history of book publication in Afghanistan precedes all the other press activities. In the year 1866 when the first press started functioning, its very first assignment was the publication of books and printing of postal stamps.
            Amir Shar. Ali Khan, who introduced the press in Afghanistan, ordered that for military training, the books by Bolio translated from English into Pashtu* with commentary in Dari should be published and simultaneously he ordered the publication 0* reliqious books for propagating religious knowledge on a wider scale among the people.
            The Afghans' needed military training for defendiirg their frontiers and needed religious education for defending their frontiers of knowledge and faith. Hence the government gave due priority to these two disciplines of learning.
            Later,during the reign of Amir ADdul Rahman Khan, the press started to print more books. Books such as "Kalemat-e-Amir-al-Belaad Fi Targhib-al-Jehad" was printed in 1304 Hijri and "Taqween-al-Din" in 1106 Hijri. Military, books e.g. Army Regulations was printed in 1304 Hijri, Military Rules in 1311 Hijri and "Meezak Jangi Paltan" was printed in 1304 Hi i::i (Lunar Calendar). Literary books such as "Divan-e-Aesha Durrani” Was pr /ted in 1305 Hijri, "Yousuf-wa-Zulekha” and "Abdul Qader Khan Khattak" were- p/inted in 1315 Hijri (Lunar Calendar).
            The development of press took place in the time of Amir Abdul Rahman Khan and side by side with lithography, the art of typography too was introduced. Later on great books like "Seraj-ut-Tawarikh" were printed in three volumes.
            Since the rule of Amir Sher Ali Khan until now it is estimated that about 2,500'books were printed.
                                                   120
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            MmJtHflfl ______________________VOt. 4 NO.4
           For the future, we should provide facilities for printing books in.every walk of life and to fulfil our needs in all sectors by writing and translating useful books, otherwise we will'fall an easy prey to the cultural onslaught of our neighbours through the books printed in their countries. They will bring Afghanistan under their intellectual influence and help educate their agents in our land.. Revival of the press and publications in our country would upgrade our mental independence and bring up our next generation as true Muslim Afghans.
                                            DISCUSSIONS
      SAMIM: Mr. Wajdi has mentioned some remarks Of the King to the deputies about
      stating the facts. It would be better if the source of this information was also mentined in the article.
      WAJDI: The King  was Amanullah Khan and the source is the book "Roedad-e-Loya
      Jirgah, Darus Saltanat-e-Kabul" (Loya Jirgah Report: Capital city of Kabul) by
      Burhanuddin Kushkakii written in 1924.
      ANZOOR: Mr. Wajdi has referred to the schools of thought of our-realism and dialectical materialism. I wonder if this is a typographical error?
      WAJDI: Actually, the communists, from the philosophical point of view, have
      presented materialism against idealism.
                                              ARTICLES
                  MEDIA MANAGEMENT IN THE FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY NOOR MOHAMMAD RAHIMI
           The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Charter approved 12 October, 1948, says that freedom of expression is the right of every individual. This right includes an uninterfered right of opinion and collection and dissemination of views and information through the media irrespective of the geographical boundaries. If a journalist can perform his duty i.e. collection and dissemination of information including news and views and news analysis, freely and independently and enjoys the right of freedom of expression, this right and privilege has not been bestowed on him by the journalistic profession but this is a right which belongs to each and every individual in a society.
           Although no government admits that it is opposed to the idea of freedom of speech and freedom of information and most of the governments guaraintee such a freedom in their constitutions, by introducing and enforcing one or the other press code or press regulations, curbs this freedom to a large extent.
           Not giving an opportunity to the press to analyse all the social problems and in the meantime expecting it to reflect the realities of life, is like a double-edged sword. Restrictions on the press usually boomerang on the government which wants to use the press for its own interest. Therefore,
                                                121
          JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            ilfGHAHJtHAO•        __________ VOL. 4 NO.4
          restrictions not only discredit the press but also damage the credibility of those who enforce these restrictions. A leader trying to ensure his power and survival by gagging the press, ends up in stifling himself.
              I personally believe that if the press in Afghanistan enjoyed legitimate freedom, the government would not have been unaware of the activities of the communists and the people too would have been wide awake and nobody would have been taken by surprize.
              We actually do not need in the future a so-called Ministry of Information and Culture. The press should be briefed about the activities of the government and their questions should not go unanswered. Every ministry and department can establish a public relations office. The duty of external propaganda for Afghanistan should be assigned to the Ministry t>f Foreign Affairs.
              The Constituent Assembly, the Loya Jirgah or any other body authorized to take decisions about the future system in Afghanistan, should devote special attention to the media management and from the beginning, ought to make clear-cut and practical recommendations in this regard.
            OWNERSHIP AND FUNDING OF THE MEDIA IN THE FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY
                                      SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI
              In Afghanistan the private or non-governmental press does hot have a long history. The oldest newspaper in Afghanistan was published in the reign of Amir Shsr Ali Khan under the government control. The first private newspaper, during Amanullah Khan's rule, was the daily Anis which closed down with the downfall of the Amanullah Khan regime. Later it was revived as a government newspaper by the Nader Shah dynasty and is being published to this day under the same title.
              During the years 1949-1952 also a number of private newspapers were published in Kabul within the framework of the 1950 Press Law but these papers were short-lived and, when Mohammad Daoud came into power as Premier of the Zaher Shah era in 1953, once again the door was closed on the private or non-governmental newspapers and publications.
              During the "Constitutional Decade" of 1963-1973 more than 30 non-governmental newspapers were being published under a new press law but the private or non-governmenal press once again was halted when Daoud assumed power- this time as President of "Republic" in 1973.
              During the communist take over only seven newspaprs were published as a "show-piece" which cannot be termed either privately owned or non-governmental papers.
              During the Afghan jehad against the Russians and their puppet regime, the mujaheddin published a large number of dailies and magazines. According to a survey in this regard, the total number of such publications reached to about 299.
                                                     122
        JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991              MGIIIIN JIHAQ                    VOL. 4 NO.4
             In Afghanistan the pres^, the radio and the television have been under the government control all along.
             The belief or claim that an elected government and having the best intentions for the welfare and progress of the society, can have newspapers of its own but with editorial freedom is nothing but hallucination. In all the periods of history4 and all over the world, experience has shown that the governments in power have never been inclined to give the press that much freedom as to objectively analyse and criticise the shortcomings, mistakes and blunders of the ruling clique.
             On the basis of a cursory assessment, however, the general tendency in this regard would be that we should have such a press in our country which may be governed by the principle of social responsibility. Such a system ig, of course, consonent with the fundamental teachings of the true religion of Islam, as the Holy Quran reads:
                                                                          \
             When there comes to them some matter 'touching (public) safety or fear, they divulge it. If they had only referred it to the Apostle, or to those charged with authority among them, the proper investigators would have tested it from them (direct)- Surah An-Nesa; Verse 83.
             An interpretation of this verse is that the news have to be evaluated by the reponsibile authorities of a media before it is released. In other words, it calls for an excercize of social responsibility in what is being offered to the public.
             According to the command of the Holy Quran,, from the Islamic point of view, the society has the right to interfere in the, cases of those people who are unable to make use of their assets in the light of the divine laws.
             Therefore,in view of the fact that there is a possibility of misuse of the press owned by individuals or non-government organizations, rules and regulations consonant with the Islamic Shariat should be enacted so■that the owners of the press may not misuse the power given to them by the society as the press is indeed a public utility.
             Each and every means of public utility (and the press, too) should be administered by efficient persons, because inexperienced and inefficient persons would ruin them and thus they would lose their credibility. Similarly the media also would serve no purpose due to inefficient management.
             Therefore, for establishing an effective,        specialized and powerful
        institution of press, we should work on two fronts:
          (i) Seek the help and assistance of persons willing to invest in publications.
        (ii) Take measures to train a group of active and religious -minded prof essional » journalists who may assume the responsibility of publishing newspapers and magazines, producing radio and television programs, making movies, compiling books and managing collective means of creating public opinion
                                                    123
          JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991             MGIIAHJ[HAO                      VOL. 4 NO.4
               and understanding.*
               As radio, television and movies are Western products arid belong to the 20th century, their contents are to a great extent influenced by the Western trends which are at times repugnant to the Islamic taste and outlook. Therefore, in future Afghanistan, we will be faced with a number of difficulties with regard to the modality of making the best possible use of these media.
               Another question to^tackle is whether we can utilize female services in the electronic media? Can we project the ideas of intellectual enlightenment and character-building through dramas or plays in which male and female actors and actresses take part? Also we should find out whether musical programs would be permissible?.
               In my opinion, a panel of eminent religious scholars should analyse these issues thoroughly.
               As far as radio, TV and films are concerned, at present it will be wise to
                                                                 * ; i . ,
          have them under government authority but their policies should not be supervised by the governments in power:       "Boards of. Governors" comprising
          people from all branches of government as well as other walks of life should be in charge of their policies.
                  THE ROLE OF MEDIA IN THE FUTURE ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN
                                      ABDUL HAFEEZ MANSOOR
               The divine command, "do the right and abstain from, wrong" is one of the fundamental principles of Islam, which can play an important role as the media guideline in the Islamic societies and particularly in the future Afghanistan.
               The regulations concerning press and other news media in future Afghanistan would be determined by the laws of Islam, which would certainly encompass the acceptable customs and traditions bf our.people, ensuring the rights of all the people in Afghanistan.        _    ■
               In tomorrow's Afghanistan, those Islamic parties who have not indulged in any anti-national activity, should be allowed to cary out basic propaganda activities but this should not lead to internal conflicts or disruption of public law and order.
               In an Islamic society, the media is not like a whip which may continually speak of punishments and severe convictions and create an atmosphere of awe and fear in the society but should serve as a beacon of light to lead the people towards piety and welfare and highlight all the manifestations of goodness in life.
                       ' / - - •
                        ' . ' •
               In order to ensure the progress of an Islamic Afghanistan on the road to
          the advanced human civilization so that it may be able to deliver the goods to the people according to the requirements of time, it is essential to take advantage of the useful experience of thd media in all the countries particularly the Islamic,states in order to avoid blind ini-tation of alien and
                                                . 124
       JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             HI! '!IHlllll|IU                 VOL. 4 no.4
       bbhbhchhhhmbmmmmmhhrmmmihmhrmrhiinmhmrhmvrmbbmmvhmrmihnihmbbhhhrhmm
       deviatory systems which only help create more problems rather than solve the existing ones.and be a source of blessing for the people.
            All the employees and active workers of the media ih tomorrow's Afghanistan should be Muslims belonging to any one -of the two sects (either Sunnis Or Twelve Imami Shias) and foreigners and foreign diplomatic missions may undertake publications subject to the permission and approval of the Islamic government.
                                            DISCUSSIONS
       BASHAR:  I think, the press ought to be. placed under the government control
       because a government stands in need of such institutions.
       KUSHKAKI: The government owns the radio. The main duty of the radio or the newspaper is to be at the service of the people and should attract the attention of the people. If the government has to announce something or the president or the prime minister have to say something or to give an interview, the radip and the newspapers are dutybound to communicate it to the people because their readers demand it. A newspaper is called a good newspaper, provided it fulfils the requirements of the people.
       RAHIMI: I hope that from the very beginning, radio and television are controlled by the people and not the government.
       MIA ARWAL: Mr* Kushkaki has stated that free press did not exist in Afghanistan. My forecast is, that in future too press cannot be free. Therefore it would be better to call this sort of press, the counteractive press rather than the free press.'  , ■      ■  , ’
                                            ARTICLE THE INFORMATION AGE PHYLLIS OAKLEY
            What is happening in this age of information? A tremendous technological development, which is described by a large number of people as a second Industrial .Revolution. Perhaps, we are standing at the threshold of thijs new age. Although the biggest developments have yet to. take place, still its signs and indications are clearly evident in our everyday life.
            The important question for Afghanistan is, what will, be your policy about television? Would you accept the outside world through the CNN ” or other television channels, via satellites controlled by state authorities in your country *or would you permit everyone to freely utilize strong international antennae?      ,
            What is your opinion about Pakistani and Iranian television? What do yo\i think about video?
                       , . 11   ( , ■          ■ A,-
            Here the question arises, what attitude Afghanistan will adopt and what
                                                    125
         JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991             WlHJfHIlfl                       VOL.  4 NO.4
         sort of attitude it should adopt? National press or different newspapers from different cities? Similarly a basic question is, whether the press or the media like freedom from government control? If the people control the**/ how would you react? "         f-- .
              I personally prefer that as far as possible, there should be the least state1 control, because in that case there will always be some sort of. tension. In my opinion, you Will find that Afghanistan will be like other countries of the world, i.e. the media will be considered as an essential part of the country Vs set-up. In the USA, the media is considered to be the fourth pillar of the state and we are usually called the "Media Democracy".
              This New Age is not dt our door-step but has enterted into our rooms.
                                           DISCUSSIONS
         MAJIDI: Mrs. Oakley provided ample information about the broadcasting system and • cable network television system but did not elaborate the modality of taking
                                            - ■ ■                                     ■ t
         advantage from, the satellite antennae for telecasting TV programs.
         OAKLEY: The best and the most reasonable mode of telecasting programs is through cable network because the pictures are telecast more clearly and brightly. But •for rural areas where houses are situated at a distance from each other and cable laying is very expensive, preferrably satellite .dish antennae are used. However both the systems exist.                                  '
         I                   ( '                        .                      '      v
              My question is, how television programs are transmitted, at present, from Kabul to Jalalabad and Kandahar?
        'MIA ARWAL: The "Shamshad" TV Station was installed in Kabul in 1982. It has 12 channels and serves as a receiving-cum-transmitting center of television frequencies and telecasts the national programs from the main stations to the provinces for three hours a day through the sputnik satellite.
              My question from Mrs. Oakley is, that as she has referred to the modern technology, would it be possible for us to jam the telecasts/broadcasts of the Kabul regime at least for five minutes, if needed, once a month by making use of this technology. Such an action would perturb the regime far more than any military operation.
         OAKLEY: The technology exists which can jam the TV programs of the Kabul regime but is very expensive. Even the East European countries and the Russians too could ,not afford if when they wanted to jam1 programs from the West. It is much cheaper to broadcast than to jam the broadcasts.
              \ •
             LIST OF THE PERSONS WHO READ ARTICLES IN THE SEMINAR ON MEDIA
         1* DR. ENAYATULLAH EBLAGH:    Ex-University  Professor,  member of  the Supreme
         Court, at present Professor of the Kuwait University. 2. MOHAMMAD GULAB BASHAR: Ex-Director General °f Islamic/Propagation, Ministry of Information and Culture,
                                                    126
      JULY-SEPTEMBEK, 1991             WGIIflN JIHflfl                   VOL. 4 NO.4
      at present Administrator, Islamic Education System. 3. ABDUL HAQ ATEED: Graduate of the Faculty of Theology, Kabul University, at present Director of the Propagation and Guidance Department of Islamic Unity, Afghanistan. 4. HABIBULLAH GHALEB:  Founding  member  of the  Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance,
      ex-Chairman, Civic and Commercial Department, Department of Legislative Research, Ministry of Justice; at present Director General, Legislative Affairs of the AIG Ministry of Justice. 5. ABDUL MALEK JAWHAR SIDDIQI:    Ex-Chairman of
      the Kabul Province Counts of Justice; at present Professor of judicial Law in the Academy of Legal Sciences and Legislation Procedures. 6.J DR. ZAHER SIDDIQ: Ex-Directof of Information and Culture Department; at present Member of the Afghan Anti-Narcotic Board at Peshawar. 7. HABIBULLAH RAFI:    Ex-Member, of the
      Historical Society and Academy of Sciences, Afghanistan, at present engaged in cultural affairs of the jehad and member of the editorial boards of the Afghan Jehad magazine, Sapeedi journal and Qalam magazine. 8. MOHAMMAD SHAFEEQ WEJDAN: Ex-Journalist and Member of \ Legislation Institute; at present a refugee in Peshawar. 9. MOHAMMAD ZARIN ANZOOR:        Ex-Member of the Afghan Writers'
      Association, at present Member of the Cultural Society for the Afghan Mujaheddin. 10. SAMIA TAYYEBA SAI1 (MS): Ex-Member of Art and Literature Section of Radio Afghanistan, at present a refugee in Islamabad. 11. MIA ARWAL: Ex-Professional member of Afghan Radio and Television, at present. Professional Member of Radio Mujaheddin,|HlA, (Hekmatyar). 12. SHAH AQA MAJIDI Ex-Director, General Knowledge Programs, Radio Afghanistan, at present controller of Dari and Pashto Programs in Radio Voice of Germany. 13. MOHAMMAD YOUSUF AEENA: Ex-Director, Information and Culture Department, Balkh Province, at present Advisor in the JIA Association of Poets and Writers. 14. FATEMA UMM-E-ABDULLAH: Ex-Teacher at Kabul, at present - Chairperson, Afghan Women's Islamic Organization. 15. ABDUL BARI SHOHRAT NANGYAL: Ex-Student, at present Editor, Da Jehad Hindara weekly, Manba-ul-Jehad magazine and 'Nusrat-ul-Jehad' journal. 16. MOHAMMAD AKBAR ASHEEQ:      Ex-Research Scholar of the Islamic Research
      Foundation at Meshed, Iran, at present Professor of Dari Language and Literature at the Jehad and Islamic Preaching University. 17.HABIB-UR-RAHMAN HALA: ex-Professor, College of Literature and journalism. University of Kabul; at prese_nt Professor of the jehad and Islamic Preaching University. 18. ABDUL JALEEL WAJDI: Former Controller of Pashto Language Development, Ministry of Information and Culture, at present Translator/Interpreter MCI Institute, Quetta. 12. NOOR MOHAMMAD RAHIMI:   Former Member of the UN Office, at present
      Translator/Broadcaster in the Dari Program of VOA. 20. SABAHUDDIN KUSHKAKI: Former Minister of Information and Culture, at present, Founding, member of the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance. 21. ABDUL HAFEEZ MANSOOR: Member of the JIA Association of Poets and Writers* 22.PHYLLIS OAKLEY:   Official of USAID
      for Afghanistan in charge of special Afghan projects.
127
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL.4 NO.4
   AFGHANS AT LEADERSHIP CADRES FOR RECONSTRUCTION:
         PROS AND CONS
8
8
U
&
o
p
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The fallowing is discussion about the problems of recruiting on Afghan "Cadre" of specialist and managers to replace the foreigners in development for Afghans'. The article has been summarized from the book. A discussion of Afghan Involvement in Reconstruction and Relief Programs by GTZ/ACBAR Afghan Management Program -Study Team: Steve Holtzman, 01 wen Herbison and Abdul Qayum Adil.
&
8
8
1
a
a
a
             There is no way to predict the future of Afghanistan and no way to know when there will be peace or what type of government will sit in Kabul. But any government will not have the capacity to deliver services to the countryside for a long time to come. The role of NGOs in the future of Afghanistan is hard to foretell. It is likely that foreign aid in some form will continue. Consequently expatriates to some extent will remain.
             We have to discuss the role of Afghan nationals in the planning, decision-making and implementation of projects aimed at supporting the reconstruction and rehabilitation’ of Afghanistan.
             The overall movement towards an increase in involvement of Afghans in this process and gradual Withdrawal of expatriates will be called in this study as "deforeignization"
             It is hoped that this study will .help to further address some of the important issues involved in the indigenization process. It will provide an analysis of tbe present mise of expatriate versus Afghan decision-makers and offer some reasons as to why such a mix has evolved overtime. It will raise the question of what type of support structures, particularly in the area of management training and staff development are important in any process of devolution of authority.
             Very few of the organizations involved in implementation of projects inside Afghanistan or in support of Afghan refugees in Pakistan are indigenous.Afghan organizations^ Of 60 ACBAR member agencies only eight can be defined as indigenous Afghan organizations set up and led by Afghans. These represent less than 5% of the total funding utilized by ACBAR agencies. The vast majority of employees of Afghanistan-oriented NGOs are Afghan nationals. Most middle managers are also Afghan nationals.But there are only two Afghan nationals presently occupying the post of director in an expatriate-based NGO.
128
        JULY-SEPTEMBER,
                          m, mnitm                                      m.   < «,.<
             Many Afghan managers feel they have no voice in the major decisions within their organizations. The real work in implementation of projects is normally done by Afghans, bat the decision making process is largely dominated by expatriates. Many Afghans have expressed the suspicion that major policy diecisions are ma.de between expatriates in out-of-office social settings. Part of the problem is lack of communication between expatriates and Afghans.
             NGOs are not democracies. After all, senior groups must make policy decisions. But most NGOs involved in Afghanistan situation are dominated by personalities not structures. Frustrated by linguistic and cultural barriers, ' between themselves and their staff, many managers chose to do things themselves.,
             Afghan involvement in the funding decisions made at the senior level of donor organizations is negligible. This is because if a donor wants to fund a project in a particular country it normally signs its project document with a government. In regard to Afghanistan donors cannot follow this normal pattern of operation as there is no universally recognized government inside*Afghanistan. A number of groups/bodies have attempted to fill this gap and create an atmosphere conducive to coordination and harmonization among various organizations. However, in an atmosphere of mistrust and confusion very little coordination has actually taken place. More than one observer has noted that there is po ."Marshall plan" for Afghanistan.
             While devolution of power in NGOs to Afghan nationals' is in a sense Afghanization, power over policy decisions still remains in the hands, of individuals, though Afghan-. While such individuals ' may be committed nationalists, they are not representatives of the Afghan people. No one elected them to make decisions concerning the future of Afghanistan.
             In the absence of a legitimate government in Afghanistan there has been a movement particularly in some sectors of UN community to search out a mechanism for dealing with local Afghan committees directly and support the efforts of
        some community based groups to implement projects themselves. This strategy has many positive as well as negative elements.
                                      AFGHAN INVOLVEMENT
             There are five general arguments which have been put forth for increasing Afghan involvement. 1. Afghan self-determination; 2. Appropriate project implementation; 3. Infra-structure building; 4. Relative expense of expatriates and 5. Fregility of expatriate-based situation.
             On the basis of national sovereignty and self-determination there is no denying the fact that Afghan involvement should be at-a maximum and expatriate involvement at a minimum at all stages of the process.
             In terms of efficiency of project implementation, Afghan nationals have many advantages over expatriates. The Afghans have access to Afghanistan where most work is actually taking place while many expatriate managers do not wish to go - to Afghanistan. Afghans not only speak the language of their country, they understand their cultural and social differences. Afghans are also in a better
                                                    129
  JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991                HfllHlItllllllflfl                 VOL. 4 NO.4
          position to analyse and work around the political constraints of the present situation inside Afghanistan' and within Afghan communities in refugee villages in Pakistan. Afghan managers are better able to run an Afghan office than expatriate managers because Afghan managers have the advantage of dealing with other staff in their native language.
                It has also been noted that Afghans,, because they are Afghans and refugees, and because they have gone through the last 11 years of war and destruction are more committed to the cause of reconstruction than any expatriates ever will be. On the other hand the commitment of any particular expatriate manager to the project goals before him ha,s a limited life. Another problem is that frequent rotation of expatriate staff in and out of programs, forces the Afghan staff to start all over again in dealing with fresh expatriates.
                The least services that the foreign community can offer to Afghanistan is an efficient and rapid reconstruction, which in this context means support of human infra-structure. In other words,            a  maximum number of Afghans in
          responsible positions should be created to ensure the growth of /cadre of experienced and capable managers. Every expatriate holding a. position as a manager, or a professional of any kind d.n any NGO represents an Afghan left inexperienced.
                The goals of these organizations supporting the Afghan refugee population and working inside Afghanistan have changed since the signing of the Geneva Accords in May 1988. Mow even programs designed to support refugees are no longer purely relief programs. Refugee aid has gone beyond handing out wheat bags and aspirin.
                Expatriates are expensive. Most expatriate directors and senior; managers cost their organizations: at least $40,000 per year. In contrast the most senior Afghan manager’s cost is. well'under $20,000 per year.
                Dependence on expatriate staff completely is a risky policy. Every one of them here is at the grace of . the government of Pakistan. The Pakistani government can ask NGOs 1 to leave any time it wishes to, particularly those without NOCs. Programs in such a - situation could be shifted to Afghan employees. But if Afghan managers are not experienced enough how will their work continue?
                Reconstruction of Afghanistan is only in its very infant stages at present. If peace dges come either selectively in certain regions or across the country the level of reconstruction will expand dramatically.; It will require a large number of managers and planners.
                In the years from 1980 to 1985 tens of organizations began operation in Pakistan to aid the hundreds of thousands of refugees that continually poured across the border. Some of these organizations, came as branches of established international agencies with experience in relief situations all over the world. Others grew up at the initiatives of individuals who came as journalists or visitors and became emotionally committed to the Afghan cause.,
                One of the major reasons thht so many expatriates are involved in both
130
 Vj
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          Hlllllfllluinllu                         VOL. 4 NO.4
       refugee and cross-border         operations is        simply that there are so many
       organizations.
             Afghan individuals, as they become senior decision makers and directors of NGOs, increase the risk Of their being the targets of rumors, harassement, violence and even assassination. In the present situation real and undeniable risk does exist for many Afghans in the course of their professional lives. Each and every decision a senior Afghan manager makes may not necessarily put him in such a situation, but there is fear and uncertainty of a misstep or a vendetta which could give rise to such a situation. Several senior Afghan managers admitted that they face the risk, but asserted that the work of reconstruction was part of jehad for them.
                                   PROBLEMS OF AFGHAN MANAGERS
             Afghan managers are faced with a situation where each allocation of resources made, no matter how large or small, puts to test their loyalty to their tribes and subtribes, their family and their circle of friends. Each time a manager makes a decision to hire an employee he will be expected by his people to put one of them in the spot. The same is true in terms of identification and implementation of a project. Senior Afghan managers can find ways to bring their friends and relatives into the dffices in which they work. Some Afghan managers have argued that even expatriates are not immune from the charges levied against Afghans. They also hire their, spouses and- friends^ for positions of responsibility in their, agencies. Another argument is that in hiring people With traditional links to them they promote efficient project implementation. But there is also a negative side. An Afghan employer finds it almost impossible to fire a relative if the need arises.
             Some quarters also feel that Afghan decision makers are more prone to favor their home regions in the location of projects. This is because they know their region best, they know how to work, and who to work through. To a great extent even expatriate-run agenciens have accepted this logic and chosen to work in areas of Afghanistan specifically because senior Afghani staff members come from those areas.
             Afghan managers are conservative/ and cautious in making decisions particularly when working with expatriates. This is partly because they have to express their opinion in English which many do not feel comfortable. Another reason is., that the Afghan employees of NGOs have been refugees for eight Or nine years. They have developed 'dependency syndrome'. They particularly depend on their salaries to support their extended families. They have great pressure to keep their relatively high paying job. They believe that the Afghans who agree with everything in their agencies are more acceptable.
                               PROBLEMS WITH PAKISTAN GOVERNMENT
            Senior managers must deal, outside their own organization with donors and with the government of Pakistan. There has been a general complaint about the lack, of confidence between donors and Afghan groups. But representatives of honors deny it and claim that they had always supported funding Afghan NGOs and dealing directly with Afghans within expatriate NGOs.
                                                  131
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991         flffllWNJfWIIl             VOL.  4 NO.4
              Afghan managers complain that it is very difficult for Afghan led NGOs to get "No objection certificate" from the government of Pakistan. To this Pakistani authorities reply that most expatriate agencies come to Pakistan with financial support while Afghan NGOs have none of their own funds. Moreover.the government of Pakistan does not want to give an NOC to a political group.
              So far as dealing with the government of Pakistan is concerned even most expatriate NGOs have employed Pakistani administrators who perform miracle of red tape cutting that no Afghan or expatriate can ever accomplish.
              A number of expatriate managers and directors noted that they would like to give over all authority in their agencies to Afghan staff, but that there were* simply not enough really good Afghan managers they' could trust with the responsibility. By "quality" they mean the ability of an Afghan manager to work within the context of a western-style office. One of the most important aspects to this is ability to speak English. English is necessary because a few expatriates share the offices with hundreds of Afghans. By deforeignization of NGO offices a large number of competent and potentially excellent Afghan
         managers and decision makers can be discovered. Afghan managers need the experience of expanding their responsibilities. They need the opportunity to grow in their ptositions and have opportunities for advancements. No one of any nationality learns how to do things unless they are offered the opportunity.
               A number of qualified experienced Afghan managers regularly disappear from the system because an Afghan refugee, like any person in similar circumstances, if offered the opportunity to have far better circumstances, will take it. An experienced Afghan professional who leaves an NGO leaves a hole that is extremely difficult to fill.
              Many Afghans have Expressed the hope that a large number of expatriate Afghan professionals in the West would, return to help rebuild Afghanistan.
              Another fadtor in the quantity of skilled Afghan management available for reconstruction is the potential influx of educated and experienced Afghans from Kabul and other Afghan cities.
                            RELUCTANCE TO WORK INSIDE AFGHANISTAN
              There is tendency among Afghan professionals to be attracted more to jobs in Peshawar and Quetta than inside Afghanistan. They are reluctant to work on projects in rural areas inside Afghanistan. This, tendency is likely to persist even after a peace settlement.
              Increasing Afghan participation means creation and fastering of indigenous Afghan implementing partners.
              There exist some professional based Afghan NGOs. Some of these were supported by expatriate NGOs in their initial stages, while others, in fact preceded 'the arrival of expatriate NGOs which actually played a hand in the establishment of the expatriate counter parts which eventually overshadowed them in funding and scale.
                                                     132
         JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991               WflHJM                        VOL.  4 NO.4
              Daring the past years several other non-medical groups mostly founded by Afghan engineers were established because individual educated Afghan nationals felt the need to find a channel to offer their skills and experience to Afghan refugees and later to the goal of reconstruction in Afghanistan. These are not grass root NGOs. They do not have the funds to support their offices and administration and have difficulty in reaching donors. Most of the Afghan NGOs in this category look to the various UN agencies as their main source of funding because UN agencies are easy to access.
              There is another grouping of Afghans which is generally referred to as Afghan groups. These groups are generally composed of local socialfpolitical,military leaders of a particular area of Afghanistan who have come to Peshawar or Quetta to acquire funds for their plans to reconstruct their home areas of Afghanistan. The key to funding is a good project document. Many Afghan groups have developed the expertise to create good project documents without any indication as to whether they can implement the project or not. Direct links with communities is the best way to meet the needs of Afghan people, but it is doubtful if .handing money to groups of individuals without experience will achieve this purpose.
              Major multilateral and bilateral donors have shown an eagerness to fund these community groups as well as professional-based Afghan NGOs. As more and more of such community based groups are being funded, local Afghan leaders all over southern Afghanistan are likely to become NGOs.
                                 FOUR TYPES OF ORGANIZATIONS
              There are four types of expatriate NGOs working on Afghanistan program.
           1. Small Afghanistan-specific NGOs' set up with one specific focus like medical or agricultural. Their annual funds are less than $1,000,000. Most of these organizations are too small to bbost Afghan NGOs.
           2. Large Afghanistan-specific NGOs with annual funds of over $2,000,000. These agencies have the greatest freedom to indigenize and have the most to offer to the future of Afghanistan.
           3. Branches of international organisations. These organizations can and may
                      ...   i         .        .             •       I
              have increased the autonomy of Afghan managers through decentralization. The chances of any of these branch offices making their operations completely indigenous are not great.
           4. Implementing agencies for foreign governments: It is unlikely that any of these agencies will ever be able to completely devolve authority onto Afghan decision makers.
              There has been a notable change in the amount of responsibility alloted to Afghan decision makers in expatriate dominated NGOs. But no expatriate NGO has so far transformed itself entirely into a totally indigenous Afghan entity.
              Under            the present unstable circumstances the key element is the
                                               133
        JULY-SEPTEMBERi. 1991            MMIJfHAO                        VOL-  4 NO-4
        implementation.ot proje^Ls wxcnin Afghanistan. But monitoring and evaluation of projects inside Afghanistan is non-existant.
             If an Afghan arrives on site to monitor a project he is put in a very difficult personal situation. If he does not report something seriously wrong with the project he has not done his job. If* he does report the problems he risks developing enemies among local population.
             It can be safely concluded that< Afghan input at senior decision making levels must be increased. The process of devolving authority onto Afghans cannot be done overnight. However many steps can be taken within an expatriate NGO in this regard without transforming it into an Afghan NGO.
             It is recommended that large NGOs should consider decentralizing their structures as much as possible. If NGOs chose to move to decentralize, certain costs will attach to such a movement. The costs can be charged as infra-structure building.
             ACBAR and SWABAG are major coordinating agencies for NGOs. Those Organizations should examine ways to bring more of the existing Afghan NGOs into their meetings.
             One of the major recommendations is for the institution of a support program for Afghan’ NGOs implementing partners. The primary objective of such a program would be to assist existing and emerging Afghan NGOs to consolidate and transform   themselves into viable    and      efficient indigenous development
        organizations.
                            HUMAN RESOURCES: MANAGEMENT TRAINING
             Over the past three years there has been an increasing interest in training for local employees in the fields of management, administration and related , subjects. Although many well educated engineers, doctors and agriculturists were employed in different organizations, few were trained to fulfill their new roles as administrators.and managers. When one thinks of "management" one often thinks of important people behind large desks, active with serious decision-making about critical matters. This is because current models and practices of mai^gement in many NGOs have . come from western or colonial systems. But AfcfUhnistan is not a western country, nor has it ever been colonized. In Afghanistan or any other developing country the basic aim should be to enable people to reach their own goals, transform their own situation and make decisions on their own future. Any worker is a manager whether he is a subsistence farmer managing his land or a driver planning his day and keeping records of his journey. .
             The concept of "training" needs to be defined in terras of adult education. It means providing opportunities for participants to acquire skills which will be immediately useful to them in their present position as well as in thd future.                          -
             Several organizations are presently offering training courses in

                                                  134
     JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     RICIIAM'JIHAO                   VOL- 4 NO-4
      management, ad/ninistration and related subjects. Most of these are open to those suitable applicants who are employed by NGOs the AIG, UN and bilateral agencies. The courses - include intensive one of two week courses, full time courses of six months plus part-time courses,on-the-job training and tailor made courses. Scholarships are also offered for training abroad.
           There is an increasing demand for management training for Afghans. It is recommended that more detailed training needs analysis should be carried out by those organizations who wish to provide training in management skills for their staff.
           Few programs are for     training  trainers and only one is for     training
      trainers m management related subjects. The multiplication of such courses could result    in widespread training  in Afghanistan as well as in    Pakistan.
      Courses coul-d be revised and adopted by more trainers and the medium of instruction would be variable. Agencies would have to make a strong commitment to   management  training and  support  their training staff by providing the
      necessary infra-structure.
           For the long term benefits of     training for Afghans, courses     could be
      designed not only to meet the specific needs of an organization but to provide skills which would be transferable to many different situations in .the future.
           Lecturers or professors who had only had experience "of formal education in University setting do not make good trainers. They do not' know how to use a participatory method of training which is the most effective with adults.
           Some of the most successful trainers in Peshawar at present are younger, active, intelligent people who have good communication skills. They realize the importance of being a facilitator of the learning process.
           It is difficult to make hard and fast rules about who will or will not make a good trainer because the attitude and personality of the trainer plays an important role.
           There is an elite group of educated Afghans who speak English, they are nominated for scholarship for higher training. These Afghans may. not go to rural areas of Afghanistan in future. If expatriates want to recruit someone to work in the rural areas it will be best to employ people already, there.
           In most refugee situations long-term prospects are usually secondary to short-term relief activities. However l(T years is a Considerable part of .any one’s lifetime, especially if these are. the most active formative years. Many Afghans who /are now 20-25 years have missed most of their education in Afghanistan and these are the people who are most interested in having more training now. In the past, they have just attended any course that came along without looking for a link with longer term objective. It is an area which requires much more attention.
           Training of all           types should be an integral part of            any
       development/reconstruction program for Afghanistan, but until now it has not been given the attention it requires. Skills which have been learned can easily be carried to Afghanistan and can be put to effective use in future.
           Most of the management training takes place in^Peshawar catering for the needs of the NGOs based there. Staff currently employed in Afghanistan by NGOs have had almost no opportunity to receive management training.. Lack of skilled field managers/administrators will remain a major barrier in the implementation of any reconstruction/development project inside Afghanistan.
           Training is a long process, so the training of managers/administrators for rural Afghanistan should not be postponed any longer.
                                                 135
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991_________fl(GHBHJtHflD              VOL.4 NO.4
          BOOKS FOR THE MUJAHEDDIN BY THE MUJAHEDDIN
      (1) COLLECTION OF ISLAMIC PRAYERS (PASHTU)
      AUTHOR: Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal; Publisher, CCAR; 119 pages
      (2) COLLECTION OF ISLAMIC PRAYERS (PASHTU)
         AUTHOR: Sayyed Hakeem Kama! Shinwari; published by the author; 110 pages.
         (3)   THE EVOLUTIONi OF THOUGHTS ABOUT MIRACLES OF QURAN (DARI)
         AUTHOR: Arshad Ershad; Pages 246.
         CONTENTS: (1) Facts about the revelation of the Quran; (2) Issues related to the
         memorization of the Quran; (3) How the Quran was compiled as a Book? (4) The miracle of Quran; (5) Opposition to Quran by its opponents; (6) Well- known writings on the miracles of Quran; (7) The issue of the miracles of Quran during the time of Prophet and afterwards.
         (4)   LESSONS TO BE LEARNT (PASHTU)
         AUTHOR:  Prof. Mustafa Sabaee; translator Sultan Mahmood Salah; publisher
         Al-Huda; Pages 30.
         CONTENTS: the virtues of Prophet Mohammad and the life of Mohammad, peace be
         upon him, before ProphethoOd; from Prophethood until migration of Muslims to Ethiopia; from migration to Ethiopia until migration to Madina; from migration to Madina until the establishment of Mohammad in the city; the jehads he fought; the liberation of Makkah and his death.
         (5)   THE BOOK OF JEHAD (DARI)
         AUTHOR:  Abu Ubaid Abdullah Ben Al-Mubarak; Translator:    Azimullah Azimi; 238
         pages.
         CONTENTS: A collection of the Prophet Mohammad's remarks and the four Khalifs
         (Abu Bakr, Omar, Usman and All) about jehad.
         (6)   JEHAD AS EXPLAINED IN THE QURAN AND HADIS (PASHTU)
         AUTHOR:  Mawlawi Nizamuddin *Nafay; translator Mawlawi Hazrat Khan Hamidi; 308
         pages.
                                                   136
     JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991           DlflllflU JIHI1D__________
     (7)   ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT: INTELLECTUAL BASIS FOR ISLAMIC ECONOMIC ORDER (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Ajruddin; 119 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The philosophy of creation of society; law, judiciary; forms of
     governments; qualification of an Islamic leader; Shoora in Islam; relations between shoora and citizenship a society free from poverty; ownership; distribution of capital; social justice, the principle of economic self-dependence.
     (8)    ISLAM AND PARLIAMENTARISM (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Sabahuddin Kushkaki; publisher: CCAR; 142 pages.
     CONTENTS: Parliament (Shoora) and Quran; The, meaning of Shoora in Islamic
     jurisprudence;the position' of the Prophet, peace be upon him, vis-a-vis shoora; pros and cons of consultation in Islam; politics and ethic in Islam; legal procedures when the head of state refuses to abide to parliamentary verdict Islamic shoora, the organization of Islamic shoora; shoora's jurisdiction; electing members of shoora.
     (9)   INDIVIDUAL AND THE STATE. (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Dr. Abdul Karim Zaidan; translator: Barakatullah  Mosta'an; publisher:
     The Office of Purification of Thoughts (Tatheer-ul-Afkar); 166 pages.
     CONTENTS: Political rights; the right to elect; direct and indirect elections; ahl-e-hal wa aqd (men of wisdom); the right of consultation; those who are: entitled to offer consultation; the right to investigate; the right to no-confi-dence; public rights of individual; freedom of individual.
     (10)   ISLAM AND MODERN NON-ISLAMIC MOVEMENTS (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Ustad Fathi Yaken; translator: Mahmood Salah; publisher: Al-Huda, pages
     110.
     CONTENTS: Deals with communism, capitalism,' masonism, nationalism.
     (1l‘) NATIONALISM OR ISLAM (DARI)
     AUTHOR:  Written  by a group of "Friends"; publisher:      Sayyed  Jamaluddin
     Publication Center; 72 pages.
     CONTENTS:  The writers, after basic evaluation of the issue, come to the
     conclusion that nationalism and Islam are incompatible with each other and nationalism is even against Islam.
     (12)  AFGHANS AND THE SOVIET UNION (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Henry S. Bradshef; translated and published by the CCAR; 156 pages
                                           137                  -
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991            HKIIIIIHJttlflO                 VOL.  4 NO.4
           (abridged)
           CONTENTS:  Afghanistan:   a   country at war; cold war in .Afghanistan,
           constitutionalists vs. communists; the Republic of Mohammad Daoud, the April 27, 1978 Coup; the 100-day reign of Amin; Kremlin and the Afghan events; Soviet military invasion of Afghanistan, "The Afghanistan Quagmire".
           (13)   AFGHANISTAN: ISLAM AND POLITICAL MODERNISM (DARI)
           AUTHOR: Olivier Roy (French); translator: Enayatu'llah Heman; 322 pages.
           CONTENTS: Government and society in Afghanistan; fundamentalism; Islamic
           movements; communist reforms; uprisings; the influence of political parties on Afghan events; the Peshawar based parties; changes in the influence of political parties; the shias in the resistance movement; war and the society; from the warrior to guerrilla; military operations; resistance and the outside world.
           (14)   UNITED ISLAMIC SOCIETY (PASHTU)
          -AUTHOR: Dr. Khalid Mahmood Asiri; translator: Ahmad Nabawi; 51 pages.
           CONTENTS: On the organization of singular Islamic society and calls upon the
           Muslims to work for such a system.
           (15)   THE DAY OF INVITATION TO ISLAM (DARI)
           AUTHOR: Zainab Ghazali Jabili; translator: Arshad Ershad; 356 pages.
           CONTENTS: In this work of the President of Egyptian Muslim Women Association,
            •                                     •                     J
           the memories- of days have been recalled when between 1954-65 the party of Islamic Brotherhood of Egypt was going through many hardships and persecutions.
           (16)   THE FUTURE OF ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN: THIRD CCAR SEMINAR:
                   EDUCATION (PASHTU. DARI)
           Published by the CCAR; 47$ "pages.
           CONTENTS: Collection of papers and discussions of the third CCAR seminar on the
           future of education in Afghanistan. The seminar was held 7-10 October, 1990 in Islamabad.
           (17)   TEACHER'S EDUCATIONAL SEMINAR (PASHTU)
           Published by the Afghan Educational Committee; 122 pages
           CONTENTS: The position and duties of teacher in Islam; objective and planning;
           organizing classroom activities; method of education; psychology; school supply; examination and assessment.
           (18)   HERZ-UL-GHEEYAS:        QURANIC     ABBREVIATED    LETTERS:     TATAR
                   BENEDICTION (DARI)
           AUTHOR: Sheikh Saaduddin Ansari; publisher: Taj Mahal Company; 56 pages.    v’
                                                    138
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
iim Jim
       CONTENTS: Mystic writing of this renowned Afghan "Soofi" (mystic) who lived in 19th century. It consists of three small pamphlets published in one volume.
      (19)  SECRETS (DARI)
       AUTHOR: Sheikh  Saaduddin Mohammad Ansari;  publisher: Taj Mahal Company;  62
       pages.
       CONTENTS: The last piece written by the author. It is comprised of fine mystic ideas written as poems similar in style with the "Masnavi" of Jalaluddin Balkhi.
       (20)   DEFINITION OF MYSTIC IDIOMS AND EXPRESSIONS (DARI)
       Compiled by: Meer Mahmood Haji; publisher Taj Mahal Company; 70 pages.
       (21)   EVERLASTING LIFE, FIRST VOLUME (PASHTU)
       Compiled and written by Sayyied Mohayuddin Hashemi; Publisher:  The office of
       Hazrat-e-Salman-e-Farsi Mujaheddin Front, 142 pages.
       CONTENTS:, Biographical data of the martyrs of the Salman-e-Farsi Front of Paktia province along with their pictures.
       (22)   JEHAD GUARDIANS, FIRST VOLUME (DARI)
       Compiled and published by the CCAR; 513 pages.
       CONTENTS: 'Biographical  data and more than 2,000 mujaheddin           alive  or
       martyred-of the Takhar province. The CCAR says it intends to produce similar volumes about all mujaheddin based in other provinces.
       (23)   THE LAST BREATHING (PASHTU)
       AUTHOR: Awrang Zaib Ershad; publisher: Danesh Book Store; 71 pages
       CONTENTS: Collection of  14 short stories by the author reflecting jehadic and
       social conditions.
       (24)   RAIN (DARI)
       AUTHOR:  Mohammad Haleem Tanvir, publisher. Office' of Mujaheddin Publicity,
       Holland; 76 pages.
       CONTENTS: Collection of  eight short stories by the_ writer reflecting jehadic
       themes.
       (25)   THE "HUT’ AND THE "PALACE"
       AUTHOR: Shafaq Stanezai; publisher: WUFA; 116 pages.
       CONTENTS: Containing 12 short stories by the writer about jehad.
                                                  139
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1991    IlffilMN JIMli)                VOL.  4 NO.4
            (26)   FROM SHOR-BAZAAR TO CALIFORNIA (DARI)
            AUTHOR:  Mohammad Haleem Tanvir; published:    Office of Mujaddedi Publicity,
            Holland; 74 pages.                                        '
            CONTENTS: "Shorbazar" is a  famous bazaar in old. section of Kabul city. The book
            contains 12 satirical short stories written in Kabuli colloquial.
            (27)   A VISION OF USTAD KHALILI, REFLECTED IN HIS POETRY (DARI)
            AUTHOR:  (Ms.) Sara Mujaddedi; publisher; Office of the Rastgoyan newspaper in
            Denmark; 27 pages.
            CONTENTS:  Analyses a number of peoms by Khalilullah Khalili, contemporary
            renowned Afghan poet.
            (28)   THE MESSAGE OF THE TRENCH (PASHTU)
            POET: Mohammad Yousuf Mullahkhail, publisher:  The Jehad Publication Center; 316
            pages.
                                  .          ^               1 . '        ■ ' i
            (29)   CELESTIAL LYRICS AND A PAMPHLET OF POEM AND POET (DARI)
            AUTHOR: Sheikh Saduddin Ahmad Baraki; publisher: Taj Mahal Company; 94 pages.
            CONTENTS:Two pamphlets of the writer, one containing mystical poems and the second one about the art of poetry.
            (30)   QUESTION AND ANSWER (PASHTU)
            POET: Latif Jan Boby; 166 pages.
            CONTENTS:  Contains  poets by the writer on jehad and social themes, some.,
            satirical.
            (31)   THE DREAM OF TOMORROW (PASHTU, DARI)
            AUTHOR: (Ms.) Laila Khurram; 118 pages.
            CONTENTS: Poems reflecting jehadic, humanitarian and social subjects.
            (32)   JEHADIC LANDAIS (PASHTU)
            AUTHOR: Toryali Zazi; 78 pages.
            CONTENTS:  First it gives a definition of "Landai" (a form of Pashtu folkloric
            poetry sung in couplets; then it discusses jehadic "Landais" and offers examples.
                                      \ ' ■
            (33)   THE VOICE OF SHAH SALEEM (PASHTU)
            AUTHOR: Ab-ul-Faiz; publisher; The Kunduz Joint Front; 32 pages.
                                                  140
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991           MfiHflH JtHffll • ____ VQL. 4 NO.4
      CONTENTS: A part of it contains jehad and religious poems about the martyrs of Kunduz and another part of it is translation of historical material such as the conqueror of northern Asia, Qateeba Bin-e-Mulim Baheli.
      (34)   REFLECTION OF "40" AS FIGURE (DARI)
      AUTHOR: Mohammad Haneef Hanifi Balkhi; 323 pages.
      CONTENTS: Reflects and discusses the importance and significance of the figure "40" as mentioned in our history, literature, folklore and religious writings.
      (35)   THE LIBERATION OF KHOST (PASHTU)
      AUTHOR:  Haji Mohammad ' Aref Gharwal; publisher; Historical Society of
      Afghanistan; 82 pages.
      CONTENTS: Strategic importance of Khost and its administrative framework; mujaheddin organizations and forces in Khost, dates related to operation for the liberation of Khost; poems written about the liberation of Khost.
      (36)   LOYA J1RGAH (PASHTU)
     . AUTHOR: Senator Ghulam Nabi Chaknawri; 23 pages.
      CONTENTS: Reflects on articles written on the Loya Jirgah by Abdul Jabbar Sabeth antjl in the JIA magazine "Meesaq-e-Khoon". Speaks about Loya Jirgah value in the Afghan national life and tries to convince those who oppose Loya Jirgah to respect- this' institution.
      (37)   WHO IS NAJIBULLAH? (PASHTU)
      iAUTHOR: Sadeequllah Rahi (Brother of Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime),
      141- pages.
      CONTENTS: Najibullah as a youngster; Najib embarks on politics; marriage with a women of ill-repute; KHAD and Najib, the murderer; other crimes of Najib.
      (38)   A PASHTU GUIDE OF ARABIC
      AUTHOR: Mohtajuddin Mohtaj; publisher: Aryana Book Store; 96 pages.
      CONTENTS: Contains the Pashtu meaning of important Arabic words and sentences.
                                                141
JUbY-SEPTEMBER, 1991      AfflHIIN                     VOL. 4 NO.4
142
 Afghanistan Qalb-e- Jahan
                             AUGUST
               6
 EDITORIAL: "The object of this paper’s
 publication". Alongside the jehad military dimension, the editorial, throws light on the cultural dimension and, while it regrets the disunity prevailing among the mujaheddin groups arid the disorderly situation, writes: Unfortunately the situation has adversely affected the noble field of press and publications as well while the    mujaheddin indispensable
 publications, owing to lack and even absence of funds, are closing c|own one after the other. Publications namely monthly, weekly and even daily with independent and non-alighned titles<ancL unknown or half-known financial sources are appearing daily one after the other. Unfortunately, again, such publications, as per the sweet will of their financiers, are showering glowing tributes on one of the organizations, the other one speaks high of the glories of the other, pne talks of thS valor of one tribe and ttye other explains the historical background of another race, language, religion and social system, etc. In a nut-shell,some of them are committed to add to disunity than unity. Consequently such| an attitude has left its mark on the publications purely financed by the mujaheddin, too, so much so that some of them have developecl fanaticism and likes and dislikes.
     The editorial, while considering this status advantageous to the enemy, regarding its own publication writes: With trust in God Almighty and Merciful, with really meagre means
at our disposal and with our limited amount of knowledge but with decisive determination we wish to serve our inspiring Muslim and free nation without any discrimination. We are printing this paper so that with the grace of God Almighty, we Can confront the enemy- the cruel atheist oppressors and tools of aliens. Needless to say that we are hopeful that all those brethren of ours whose sensitive hparts go out for the Islamic Afghanistan all in one piece, singular and prosperous, will not spare their cooperation of any kind-intellectual, physical or financial, so that we become all the more united and bring the enemy to its knees.
   SEPTEMBER
            7
REPORT: Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, a former deputy Prime Minister of Afghanistan in regard to the tripartite conference between the mujaheddin, Iran and Pakistan, about the Afghanistan issue said,although it is being said that the objective of the Tehran conference was to' hold talks about the United Nations plan for Afghanistan, the plan itself has no room for holding such a meeting because the UN proposal had invited the , Afghans to resort to solving through pblitical means the issue withough outside interference. He added that no party in Afghanistan has been established on the basis of a law and therefore none of Ibhem has a legal right to take a decision. He added, parties cannot assume the position of representing the aspirations of our jpeople, individually or collectively. According to him, the legality of each party will depend on the fact that to ■what extent it will be able to bring itself out of the dictates and influence of its foreign friends.
143
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     AIGIIflH   JH                   VOL. 4 NO.4
    Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Justice Minister, in regard to the recent Soviet coup in a radio interview said it is too early to predict the impact of this coup on the region and the world in a specific way. However, in regard to its affect on the issue of Afghanistan, the 12-year experience of* the people of Afghanistan is that no political change in my opinion will alter the path for the success of the Afghan jehad. It is possible that at international level efforts for finding a political solution to the Afghanistan issue may face a stalemate as a result of the Russian coup but on a national level the efforts of the Afghans for solving their issue and realizing their historic jehad will continue and, God willing, will yield results.
    Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, the former Prime Minister said in regard to recent Soviet events, when the Soviet government committed a historical mistake and blunder, and sent its troups for the occupation of Afghanistan and masacre of. our people, we were sure that our nation once again will defeat the aggressor. The defeat of the Red Army and its withdrawal from our country in fact was the beginning and the end of the fall of the Soviet empire and now we observe it is-crumbling. At this juncture it is necessary for the Afghans to study the impact of this event on the issue of their own country.
      Dr. Ravan Farhadi, a former Afghan diplomat,, in relation to Soviet changes has said, the time has come for the Afghan communists to take a clear step and tell the Soviet Union:      The
 continuation of military war is difficult, it will have no result and even may have an. opposite result, peaceful efforts will also fail to render positive results as long as the communists were around and, therefore, an obvious aftermath of the withdrawal of
 Soviet troops from Afghanistan would be the withdrawal of Afghan communists from the reign of power. Of course, to make such a move would require certain preparations. These preparations would entail the dissolution of the militia forces, and the security forces as well as other forces under the Ministry of Interior, the dissolution of the KHAD and its armed men, referring to retirement of all communist generals and colonels and dismissing all communists from government posts above the. level of chief of department. This government should also hand over the power .to a transitional one comprised of able personalities who are not communist' and have had no communist background. He says, if Kabul communists resort to such a measure, it will be the best way for ,them to compensate for the crimes which they have committed against the people of Afghanistan.
    Another Afghan scholar Dr. Siddiq Noorzoy, has said, from an Afghan' point of view one thing ought to be of vspecial importance, i.e., the rise to power of Boris Yeltsin,the President of Russian Republic, who had invited last year the mujaheddin to visit Russia for talks about the exchange of war prisoners, and to reveal the crimes committed by Soviet soldiers in~ Afghanistan to the Soviet people. He says, the mujaheddin should exploit this favorable opportunity and pave the way for the renewal of that invitation and they should hold talks with Yeltsin.
     Al-Badar
                       AUGUST — SEPTEMBER
 REPORT: A Dutch periodical published in Holland has said, Arab countries and the West during the Gulf War were faced with attacks by SCUD rockets launched by Iraq against Israel and Saudi Arabia
144

/
 JULY-SEPTEMBER# 1991 jfjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj                      VOL- 4 NO-4
 and they were reacting to this furiously while in Afghanistan, after Soviet troops withdrawal from that country, more than 2,500 long range SCUD rockets have been launched on liberated towns and mujaheddin positions by Russian advisers and Najib regime and these have kiliejd thousands 1 of people. However, nobody has
 criticized this. Despite this, the strong morale of the Islamic freedom fighters has resulted in the capture of the important town of Khost by them from the Najib regime and the mujaheddin have braved the SCUD rockets.
     Ariana
   JUNE-JULY
 INTERVIEW: Ahmad Shah Masood, head of
 supervisory Council and one of the well-known Afghan jehad Commanders, in a recent interview with the correspondent of the French daily "Le Monde" in Panjsher said: Last year
 sessions of the commanders had positive political and military results and we hope that during the current year big strides will also be taken in this direction. In response to another question, Masood considered the fall of Kabul regime as inevitable and said that contrary to the picture drawn outside, it was all the more weaker and you will see that the fall of other two or three towns will change the situation throughout the country-. He considered foreign intervention as a the factors contributing to disunity confined to Peshawar and added that inside Afghanistan the mujaheddin are free in their action and there are main fronts that are seriously opposed to any kind of affiliation. Regarding the, mujaheddin stance vis-a-vis the Russians he said, the mujaheddin have time and again declared their stand and have expressed their willingness for
 direct talks with Russians. Concluding, Masood hoped that the way will be paved for holding general elections in the country.
                     A rman-e-Mujahed
                             JULY
            20
 NEWS ITEMS: In relation to the current
 situation, Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzin. the Amir of HEIA said, "there are certain points of the plan for political solution which could be agreeable to the Afghan Muslims but as far as the coalition with Najib regime is concerned we shall never agree to it. The resolution of the Afghanistan crisis is the prerogative, solely and wholly, of the Afghanistan ' Muslims whose homes have been razed to the ground and have sacrificed their lives" .
  During their successful operations in Salang and Jab-ul-Saraj areas, the mujaheddin recently destroyed 11 enemy tanks and 22 lorries.
 - The mujaheddin killed 15 militiamen of the Kabul regime in Ghore 9 July.
                            AUGUST
            21
 EDITORIAL: "Tripartite talks, a first
 step towards solving the Afghanistan issue". It refers to the talks being held among Pakistan* Iran and the mujaheddin and evaluates it as a positive step and by referring to remarks by Sardar Abdul Qayyum Khan, the Prime Minister of Azad Kashmir,it says, when one looks upon the results of the tripartite Islamabad talks, these talks!
145
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
are, by all means, useful for the Muslims of Afghanistan and it shows that Muslims are to hold consultation against their enemies with elements who have sympathy with them. He has $aid whatever is useful for the Muslims of Afghanistan we welcome it. Our efforts are aimed at deliveirng the Afghanistan Muslims from their difficulties so t'hat, parallel to their military victories, they will also achieve political success and unity and consensus ought to be achieved among the Muslims of Afghanistan no matter what the price is going to be.
     Awa-e-hari
                               JUNE —JULY
NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin of HIA
(Mohseni) in-Zendajan district, Herat, destroyed an enemy tank killing all the
crew 29 May. Likewise in Zangi Sabah they overran an enemy position 30 May. They destroyed an enemy tank killing, all the crew 31 May. The mujaheddin cleared the Qaraq’ area from the puppets 2 June and destroyed an enemy tank 5 June in Khum^-e-Maku area. According to the report received from the Headquarters of Battalion 92 based in Herat, the mujaheddin rocket
operations continue on enemy bases and the battle is raging on security posts along Herat-Islamqala Highway. All the
mujaheddin took active part in this operation. Similarly the valiant people of Herat,reacting to the enemy criminal
measures, including the cutting of water supply to Zendajan, Ghorian and the merciless massacre of defenseless
people demonstrated in a> massive rally and went on strike for two days. .Even now the Muslim and heroic people of
Herat are showing their , anger in different ways against the shameless acts of the puppets.
                           Basharat
                                JUNE
                                   3°
   A delegation of HWIA, led by Murtazavi, called on Ghulam lshaqr Khan, President of Pakistan in Islamabad 30 June and exchanged views with him on the Afghan issue.
   Hujjat-ui-Islam Murtazavi, the ; spokesman • of HWIA in an exclusive ,interview with the correspondent of Basharat observed: Our people and
 mujaheddin reject cease-fire and talks with the puppet Najib regime. Regarding participation in the 28-member commission he said we would not participate in the commission till the time a suitable share is.earmarked for us..
 - - The HWIA delegation called on the special representative of UN Secretary General in Islamabad and discussed the Afghanistan problem with him.
   The HWI delegation called on Sebghatuliarf Mujaddedi, the President of AIG, 19 June and exchanged views on the Afghanistan issue and the Commission for plan drafting, regarding the HWIA share, for which three representatives are said to be considered, the delegation raised objections and handed over its own proposal which is being discussed.
 - HWIA delegation met 27 June with Senior Pakistan Foreign office officials and; discussed the Afghan issue with Akram Zaki and Shaharyar Khan.
146
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991           HfFlIMN JlHflO
                           JULY
            21
 REPORT: The report emphasizes the need for the formation of the HWIA and discusses its history, and writes: As a consequence to efforts of many years a general congress was convened in Bamian attended by heads of the entire parties. After detailed discussion and exchange of views, unity and total solidarity among the parties were identified as the only way to break the narrow and dark fortifications of partisanship and the alleviation of misery and misfortune and it was seen as the only means to national prestige and honor. So with the signing of the unity 'treaty they founded the HWIA. After that the. Central Council of HWIA deputed a mission to remove the dissolved party offices in the neighbouring countries and the reopening of HWIA offices instead. With the visit of this mission outside the country the offices of HWIA, with the sole aim of representing the aspirations and will of our oppressed *and Muslim people, were opened in Iran, Pakistan and some of the European countries and now this party is active in the battle field as well as in political affairs.
                        AUGUST
             14
 ARTICLES: "The Islamabad meeting and
 future prospects:" by Sayyed Hassan Aalemi. The Islamabad meeting has given rise to the hope that after necessary discussions’ and evaluationr a joint' stand has been adopted and the participants have emphasized that if the weak points in the plan offered by the UN Secretary General and its negative
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 aspects are eliminated, it can be discussed as a possible solution of the Afghan problem. The joint meeting among Iran, Pakistan and the mujaheddin can serve as a beginning for achieving a joint accord on political, defense, economic and other forms of cooperation among these three countries.
 * "The OIC and Muslim expectation." The expectation of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan from the OIC has been to see that the the Muslim world should cooperate with us until the final victory of the people of this country and the downfall of the government of occupation and elimination of its remnants. We also have hopes that member OIC countries will help us re-build our ruined country. Furthermore, the. OIC should avoid issuing hollow formal, declaration and, instead, take practical steps for solving the difficulties of the Islamic world.
   SEPTEMBER
            14
 INTERVIEW: Hujjat-ul-Islam Murtazavi
 spokesmen of HWIA in an interview with Radio Meshed'of Iran has said about the 'first Congress of the party: The first all party conference, of the HWIA was held 24 August inside the country in the Bamian province with the participation of political officials and members of the High Supervisory Council, members of the Central Council and officials of committees inside the country as well as representatives of the party in foreign .countries. The conference ended 1 September after issuing a statement. A part of the statement says:(l) The HWIA policies declared its support for the policies pursued by the great leadership authority of the (Shia) Muslims; (2) It extended its gratitude to the
147
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
Islamic Republic of Pakistan and Islamic Republic of Iran for their support of our Islamic revolution; (3) Participants of the Congress confirmed that the criminals of the era of occupation arid instigators of the killing of more than one million Muslims and migration of more than five million people and destruction of the country are still in power and therefore, until the down-fall of this regime we are not going to stop our struggle; (4) The participants, while extending their support for the tripartite conferences of Islamabad and Tehran declared any solution fulfilling the Islamic sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of our country is. welcomed by us.
    The participants of the Congress urged all Islamic groups of Afghanistan to participate in the tripartite talks and assume the initiative and preserve their solidarity and alignment with the two neighboring and Muslim countries of Iran and Pakistan.
    In relation' to political relationship with the other groups, it has been emphasized that the- HWIA should consolidate with utmost force and vigor its political and military relationship with other jehad groups.
    Baseerat
                             JULY
             21
EDITORIAL: It is about the visit of a
Russian delegation tq'. Pakistan and a meeting between the delegation and the mujaheddin groups and it says the fact that the Russians have decided to hold political 'talks with the mujaheddin speaks of the high value they attach to our present *Vjehadic
 status. Earlier the Russians'refused to recognize the mujaheddin as a party to the talks and now they have decided to hold talks with the mujaheddin and this manifests the superiority of the mujaheddin from a political point of view. Nevertheless, it would be better to be cautious about the consequences of such visits, although they may manifest7 our superiority from a political point of view. The previous talks at the level of AIG or jehad organizations, though they might have been carried with political s'uccess, the fact that several mujaheddin authorities have been contacting the other side and they have not held a unified front had reduced the importance of such contacts. Therefore, it is nec&ssary that, before holding these talks, we have a unified position by our jehad leaders.
 Basheer-ul-Momenat
                           AUGUST
            19
 ARTICLES: "The current conditions and
 an Afghan woman's obligation": Among
 imperialist designs for perpetuating its imperialism and misguiding the so-sciety is to corrupt the youth, isolate them from their culture, sow the seeds of trouble and immorality .for the coming generation and encourage the women to lead an unbridled life. This is the means the imperialists have used in the societies they want to dominate. The youth are attracted to that direction in the name of "progress". The women are . also motivated to c'arry imperialist designs under the name of equal rights and they know that the youth and women' who are the strong pillars of the Society when get involved in corruption are alienated from their environment and culture and are thus completely lost and thus
148
 july-september, 1991 hIGHMIJitiilil                     vol. 4 no.4
become easy to rule and influence.
   The article* while discussing the poor condition of the Afghans, addresses the Afghan women, "under the present circumstances that we are leading our lives in a foreign land in a scattered way* we are deprived of a united administration. There are hAnds outstretched from every side towards us, the imperialism is bent upon our annihilation and a program for misguidance of our coming generation is under way. It is the only duty of the Muslim Afghan woman to set herself and her children as a model of Islam in both behaviour and manners. They ought to protect themselves from catchy and deceptive! western slogans so that in future we can maintain our identity and belief and save our homeland.
   D’aawat
   JUNE-JULY
REPORT: Swedish Committee for Afghanistan in a report on damages to agricultural sector of Afghanistan during the war writes that prior to the Russian invasion 74 per cent of the people were engaged in agriculture which: earned 55 per cent of the
ifational revenue. During the
occupation period the agriculture in Afghanistan was badly hit causing manifold losses and damages, the reconstruction of which will take considerable time and effort. Due to retaliatory Russian bombardments orchards, vineyards, karezez, , and canals and irrigation wells were all destroyed and a number of farmers were maryred or displaced. The very few still left are currently busy in cultivation but their tracts of land are no longer capable to yield enough products.
                                           The report adds that during the'
war period almost 53 percent of dams and irrigation systems have been destroyed, resulting in 82% reduction in wheat production* The report concludes that figures indicate a 45% reduction in wheat production between 1977 and 1986. Similarly the number of cattle and sheep, which totalled 325 million before the war, has klso been reduced by 20 million heads during the past 12 years.
  Daneshjo
                                AUGUST
             22
REPORT: The students union of the JIA
held 24 July a roundtable on the "Evaluation of obstacles and difficulties of the Islamic Revolution of Afghanistan". Three subject were discussed:
1. The difficulties right now existing due to national and international factors on the path of Islamic revolution of Afghan. Some call this a deadllock. What is your opinion about this?
a.  Intensification of armed struggle.
b. Compromise and coalition, but with
    whom.
2. Practical ways for achieving Islamic unity in Afghanistan.
a.  Abolition of parties.
b. Formation of a powerful Islamic parliament and appointment of a leader.
3. The most just way for solving the Afghan issue in concord with present realities:
a. Military,
149
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
b. Political.
     Answering these, the participants stressed, intensification of armed struggle., unity of forces and military solution until - the success of revolution.
     Brother Khairkhawah said: There
was no possibility for reconciliation with those who are the symbols and remnants of ' aggression in Afghanistan and through the foreign forces came to the country converting it to dust and ashes and masscacring the peoople of Afghanistan.
     Brother Noktadan said: I do not
see any stalemate at the level of revolution and within it. The enemy is the stalemate. 'Stalemate is for those who ruij behind' the Caravan and want to catch up and become the leader of the Carawan.
     Brother Daneshyar said: I consider most parties in Afghanistan illegal and they have come into existence due to some contradiction in our society.
  D’Jehad Hindara
                                      JULY
                 3
ARTICLE:  “The love of leadership1'
(Mawlawi Mohammaid Younus Khales). Now that East and West are busy crying that the Afghans themselves are to determine their future, we are_ witnessing that bottlenecks are being laid in the path of realization of an Islamic leadership.
     Referring to history he writes: Abu Obaida Ibn-e-Jarrah, and Khaled bin-e-Walid were excellent mujaheddin but the post of Khilafat was entrusted
 vol. 4 no.4
 to Abu Bakr. Hazrat Ali, was a Muslim, senior to Hazrat Omar, but became the 4th Caliph whereas Hazrat Omar took over as the 2nd Caliph. Therefore, seniority of movement, bravery in the battlefield and the expansion or multitude.of party cannot be considered as criterion for leadership. If, today, genuine mujaheddin come together and unite and assure the people that they are liberating this nation, solely and wholly, for the sake of Allah only and not for the chair, and that with restoration of peace the leadership will be elected ~ in accordance with Islamic system, I am sure that the entire nation shall, collectively,. oust the traitors and force them pack up. They shall be saved from East, 'West and international-imperialism. This party supports the movement of resolute and honest mujaheddin and would place all its facilities at their disposal.
                   8
 EDITORIAL:  "Unified policy, the only
 way to stop plots". The editorial, commenting on the UN Secretary General plan about Afghanistan says,our leaders? should adopt a unified strategy vis-a-vis this plan and consult each other about items which are vague and propose elimination of those points Which are creating hurdles for reaching our objectives. and propose new ideas for the fulfillment of the aspirations ’of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and offer them as a final decision of this nation.
      You may remember that in these sensitive movements the infidel forces are exploiting this lack of unity,
 1 selfishness and individualism and will undertake such a plot against us which will not be easy to stop and at that time we will be blamed by our Muslim people as well as our friends in the Islamic world.
      Let us take a real step at this
150
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                BlGIIIIIIJlllAfl                                     VOL-   4     NO-4
  juncture by making use of the opportunity and frustrate these plots as a big united power and thus discharge our Islamic as well as moral responsibilities in this connection and thus obtain the pleasure of Almighty God and this will be the only way for our victory.
                                               17
  INTERVIEW: Mawlawi  Nezamuddin Haqqani,
  the deputy commander of the mujaheddin fronts in.southern Afghanistan, in an interview with the D*Jehad Hindara has said, "we are not going to accept . Russian ~ agents and atheists in • Afghanistan even if the Islamic countries and the entire world support them".
       In regard to his fronts he said, in Khost two shooras have been established, one being the Security Council which has been activated since the liberation of Khost. The Shoora is assigned to safeguard security in the region, protect public property, prevent looting of personal property. Also 'this body prevents inter-mujaheddin clashes and oversees the distribution of war-booties. The second shoora is in charge of the administration and government of the Khost but still this shoora has not been activated because a number of mujaheddin organizations, due to some difficulties, have been postponing the work and they have proposed that the issue concerning this shoora of 100     'members should be
  reconsidered. This shoora is to elect the governor of Khost and will have nine committees or directorates and also appoints chiefs of administrative
  units'such'as.districts and sub-distri-’
  ctS. This shoora will also be in charge of establishing contacts with foreign countries and institutions to usher their help for. rebuilding schools, mosgues,     madrasas     and     other
  infrastructures.
                                               24
 INTERVIEW: Mawlana Mirdad, the Chief of the Martyr Mawlawi Fatehullah Haqqani Front in an interview with the reporter of D'Jehad Hindara has said about his front, our front was formed in 1981 in Khardand and at present we have 1,200 armed mujaheddin and through 13 years of revolution 500-600 of our mujaheddin have been, injured and. 250 of them martyred.
      In regard to mujaheddin operations on Gardaiz he said, three days after the liberation of Khost, members of the Khost shoora convened in Mandozai and they discussed the following issues:
 1.  Distribution of the material captured in the Khost battles.
 2. Administration of Khost.
 3.  Details of a program for launching an offensive, on Gardaiz.
      The general decision adopted by the meeting was that an offensive should be launched on Gardaiz similar to the one launched on Khost by all mujaheddin groups* This program has been adopted by all the mujaheddin and nOw all of them are busy transferring their centers of operation to that region and other mujaheddin are also going to that area, and therefore, this operation has not been undertaken by any single organization.
      He said if the mujaheddin launched similar offensives on other cities like the one they launched on Khost they will be able to capture Gardaiz in 10 days and Logar in another 10 days and they will also be able to capture Kabul and Ghazni in a short while afterwards..
                                                  31
 EDITORIAL: "Fresh  efforts for solving
 the Afghanistan problem": Commenting on the tripartite fionference of the muja-
  i
 )
151
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 to Iran- Kabul relations, the editorial concludes: The agenda of these talks in its’ complete form has not been disclosed so far. However, the talks demonstrate hqw far foreign powers in their own interest, are competing in political bargaining. Besides using multifarious channels and different directions, they have embarked upon activities which revolve around their own axis and this process drags the case towards new tensions.
   Regarding the solution of the •problem and the current activities, the famous and sagacious mujaheddin commander, Jalaluddin Haqqani, has said "as long as the Kabul regime is not ousted, the political solution of the Afghanistan problem is impossible. When the Najib puppet regime is out, the necessity for war feder out by itself and the way for political parleys is paved. Otherwise any kind of parleys and political efforts are fruitless and inconclusive. That is why we can say that with Najib in power, political activities which are being undertiaken currently under the name of the resolution of Afghan issue may be classified as nothing more than conspiracies against the valuable aspirations of the Afghan mujahed nation and canhot be effective in the real solution of the case".-
                               AUGUST
                7
 INTERVIEW: Prominent Commander Haji
 Mohammad Ibrahim, brother of Mawlawi Haqqani, in an interview with the Urdu newspaper Nasratul Jehad describing the security situation in Khost has said:
     The city of Khost was liberated as a result of the joint .operation of the mujaheddin belonging to all mujaheddin organizations and nOw unity and cohesion prevail and the security of
 the city is being taken care of. The military supplies and weapons captured from the enemy are being" kept in safe places and still they are there. The mujaheddin have their trenches in these areas and are safeguarding these weapons by their own security guards. The heavy weapons and supplies will be deployed in future joint operations upon the enemy and the small and light weapons will be distributed among the mujaheddin. Unity and alliance prevail among all the mujaheddin and there is no.dispute among them.
        14
 NEWS ITEMS:    The Helmond mujaheddin
 raided enemy trenches in Ghreshk on the Kandahar-Herat Highway 3-9 August conquering 21 security posts and killing 200 soldiers, militiamen and army officers of the Kabul regime.
 ~ The Commander's Council reports from Logar that the mujaheddin of that province have conquered 15 enemy posts. In clashes; whic took place between two sides, a number of enemy soldiers were killed, 20 soldiers and officers surrendered to the mujaheddin with 25 pieces of light arms and supplies.
 * D'Jehad Hindara reports from the jehad centers of Gardaiz, Paktia, that •the mujaheddin in a joint operation in south western Gardaiz towards the Zurmat district have demolished a security post of the militia guard and have killed four militiamen of the Kabul regime. Also the mujaheddin have demolished the Sarodi. security post and have burned a jeep vehicle and an arms and supply 'depot. Also the mujaheddin shot down 10 August an enemy helicopter in the Theera Pass region.
         21
 EDITORIAL: "How can we consider as useful the mujaheddin negotiations with • »
152
JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1991  Hfflllllll llfllllfl             VOL.  4 NO.4
 Russians? "The editorial is skeptical towards various kinds of negotiations
 being conducted under the title of
                                                             - [ political solution and it specially!
 refers to the direct talks held by the j
 mujaheddin and Russians and conclude:
      The Russians who with their army of 200,000 well equipped and with the support of all the socialist blocks not able to permanently ^establish its puppet regime in Afghanistan, know at present very well that this baseless regime is condemned to be toppled and such efforts (negotiations) and their likes have been undertaken by them so that they may have some place for their hirelings in the future government.
      In the political arena we are of the opinion that the mujaheddin direct negotiations with the Russians should be held under the following conditions:
 1.  While holding the talks the military jehad should continue until the final victory.
 2.  The mujaheddin delegation holding talks with the Russians should represent all jehad forces and represent the aspirations of the entire mujaheddin.
                   28
 EDITORIAL: The second round of talks
 and the issue of various positions taken vis-a-vis these talks. The various position taken by - the mujaheddin organizations and the dispute existing among the mujaheddin leadership in relation to the Afghan issue should be solved ‘ prior to their participation in international talks and if there are disputes among them,their participation in these gathering will not help solve the Afghanistan issue through political means. It will rather show to the world that the mujaheddin have neither separate plan nor a fixed position in regard to the Afghanistan issue. It is now upto the jehad leadership to set
aside their different positions and adopt a single and stable position in the light of Almighty God's command and the guidances issued by Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, so that the wishes of the mujahed people of Afghanistan are realized and our jehad succeed.
   SEPTEMBER
             4
REPORT: Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani in a condolence meeting for Martyr Kako Khan in a speech about the obligation of jehad in Islam said, a Muslim is obliged to revenge four things: (1)
when an agression is comitted against him he is obliged to defend himself with resorting to arms; (2) when a Muslim finds out that his honor is in danger he should resort to arm and fight; (3) when the religion and faith of a Muslim and his religious rites are being abused and violated, jehad becomes obligatory on the Muslim and he should fight the aggressor; (4) When the land and property of a Muslim comes under aggression,the entire inhabitants-of that country are obliged to resort'to arms against the aggressor;Where ever' these four things are violated together there is no alternative for the Muslim than to resort to jehad and to arms.
             11
REPORT: Mawlana Jalaluddin Haqqani ii}
a speach 4 September for the inaugura-ation of the second studio of the Mujahed Ghag (The Voice of Mujahed) said under today's conditions, making use of radio broadcasting, conveying facts to. the Muslim nation of Afghanistan through.radio and informing the Muslims about the evil plots and propaganda of the enemy are of utmost importance. It is due to this reason that we have been trying to establish a radio station. Through radio broadcast, our. mujaheddin
153
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        WWIMIJlllllO                VOL. 4  NO.4
will achieve further advances and we will' be able to counter successfully enemy propaganda with the help of Almighty God.
    He said in the holy religion of Islam only those who fight with guns the enemy from the trenches are not called mujaheddin but those Muslims who are disseminating the jehad news and inquire after the mujaheddin are also considerd part of the jehad. These are the people who are encouraging the people to jehad and are making the public know the plots hatched by infidels and atheists.
      Ekhlas
                               JULY
              21
NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin are further
closing in around the Gardaiz city.. 13 July . they raided the security posts e-stablished around the Gardaiz Garrison as a result of which 12 soldiers were killed and one post demolished.
  The Helmand mujaheddin executed an operation 12 July on Kandahar-Herat highway in Greshk, Helmand, killing 24 Kabul regime soldiers and seven* army officers, demolishing five tanks and nine trucks loaded with arms.
   In Zendajan district, Herat, in a battle between the mujaheddin and communists 5 July, 40 government troops were killed, one tank, two trucks and one military base were demolished.
                            AUGUST
              11
EDITORIAL: "The political dimention of
Afghanistan on the threshold of
  crisis". The editorial enumerates the obstacles and hurdles for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and writes, American imperialism through the United Nations is trying to establish a buffer state government in Afghanistan. Russia is attempting to make acceptable one of its puppets to America and the West and to bring him to power through a new method. But they disagree with the Russians and the UN, by offering a 5-point plan wants to establish a joint communist and pro-Western Afghan government in Afghanistan so that, on the one hand, stop the continuation of the communist regime in Afghanistan and, on the other hand, prevent the establishment of an Islamic government , in the country.
       On the other hand, some of our jehad friends, such as the present government of Iran, are trying to prevent the establishment of a government in Afghanistan which is based on the Hanafi jurisprudence of Islam and thus they are keen to see the establishment of a mixed government based on Hanafi and Jaf ari jurisprudences so that the / task of converting Afghanistan into a purely Shia state may become easier for them in the future.
       On the other hand, our jehadic organizations have become victims of disputes and these are big obstacles which, if not eliminated, it is 100% feared that either the West will establish a government in accordance with the American plan or, God forbid, the Russian puppet government will remain in power. Already work has started for this purpose and the return of 9,492 families from 335 camps in Pakistan to Afghanistan can serve as a proof.
       The Ekhlas newspaper proposes to jehadic organizations of the Islamic movement to join hands ' and together prevent the crisis which has come
\
154
JULY-SEPTEM8ER, 1991
III
VOL. 4 NO.4
about on the path of an Islamic government.
       Falaq
                              JULY
             20
EDITORIAL: "Victory by the sword not
across the. table". The editorial while rejecting the UN plan writes, "the sum-up of the latest political efforts boils down frankly to this that seemingly benevolent proposals are factually diplomatic moves of UN forces in the background, i.e. US and USSR, which are aimed at entanglement of mujaheddin in the cobweb of rift and disunity so that the enemies of the Afghan nation could freely move about and pursue their ominous objectives without facing a stumbling stock".
   "Sober and save entrenchments of Islamic revolution forces have declared as unrealistic the one hundred UN defective and sick plans pertaining to the political fate of the Afghan Muslims. These guard of the trenches blessed with religious belief and supported by revolutionary stability of jehad forces, demand yet stronger supports".
                           AUGUST
              4
EDITORIAL: "Crucial moments and urgent
matters":  The editorial, while
discussing jehad objectives and enemy intrigues, writes: The world arrogance
is trying to cover the Kabul Regime blood thirsty face,whose jolting crimes have no parralel in the history of the country, with a false conciliatory veil, and identify the oppressed and resistant mujaheddin, who are only bent
 upon the propagation of virtues and rightousness, to the world opinion and even the Muslims as war-mongers and the same time, by dint of multif arrious pressures, corner them. Under such circumstances, i it is but natural that we maintain our initiative i.e. trust in harmonious military onslaught coupled with dynamic and satisfactory military plans. During these crucial moments, when more than ever before, efforts are being made in the way of political solution of Afghanistan problem, we pay tributes to the valiant and magnanimous people of Afghanistan and glorify the memories of the epoch maker martyrs of the sacred jehad. Whose noble blood is the quarantor of the victory and success of Islamic revolution. While showering glowing tributes on our brave jehad forces we cannot overemphasize the importance of the following points:
 1. Intensification of military struggle to negate the communist elements' interference in the country's future fate.
 2. Facing imposed plans based on conspiracies, incompatible with Islamic revolution strategy.
 3. Creation of brotherhood and justice for adoption of a unified position compatible with Islamic beliefs.
                                              24
 COMMENTARY: It is about the exclusion
 of the Kabul regime from the OIC. The OIC excluded the Kabul regime from participation in its meetings since 1979 when the Soviet Union launched its aggression on Afghanistan, though in the past two years Najib made futile efforts to participate in the OIC meetings and the Paper discusses the failures of Najib and the difficulties he has been facing. It says:  It seems
 that the year 1991 has been a hectic
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
KUilllillK
VOL. 4 NO-4
and difficult year infested with political and military defeats for the Kabul regime. If the situation continues in its present form it" is not known whether or not the Kabul regime will remain in power until the end of the year.
     During the course of this year the Kabul regime lost at least 15 towns and districts and the mujaheddin are resolved to capture before the advent of winter several big towns and provincial centers...
     Also during the course of this year a large number of well-known Khalqi and Parchami communists, including Keshtmand, resigned from the membership of the so-called 'Watan Party and they acu#ed Najib of lust for power and tribalism.
     Also those who had joined the Kabul regime in a coalition are now trying to split from the government and so far a large number of them have left the Najib regime. Contrasts and' competetions, counter-claims between different organs of the military including the army, security forces, the KHAD, border forces and militias reached their zenith in 1991 and even Najib himself is not able to restore understanding and cooperation among warring factions.
     On the other hand the skyrocketing of prices and. scarcity have spread throughout Afghanistan and the inhabitants of the Capital City have been raising criticism and lodging their discontent against the economic situation iii Kabul for which the Kabul government is directly responsible.
" I  '               ,       •
     But as far as the foreign affairs is concerned, with the increase in power of reformists with anti-communist trends in the Soviet Onion under the leadership of Boris Yaltsin, the Najib
regime has been placed in a precarious
 position because the Yaltsin group is, first of all, against the continuation of material, military and armament assistance by the Soviet Union to the Kabul regime and secondly it intends to solve the Afghanistan problem by holding talks with the . mujaheddin leaders.       .
     The total sum of these realities shows that the communist star in Afghanistan is fading. On the other hand among the opposition forces the military commanders of the jehad, as weli as political personalities and cultural elements outside the country by concluding agreements have been trying to join hands and to form a united front against the criminal regime of Kabul by relentlessly trying to rally. their intellectual and practical activities in the services of Islamic revolution.
                                                                    Ferogh
 PRELUDE: We are grateful and indebted
 to God Almighty who conferred the strength on us that in this period and under the prevalent conditions, wherein an unrestrained atmosphere is available for the propagation' of knowledge and cultural values, we too alongside our other dear compatriots, move forward in the propagation of the Islamic noble culture.
    During the several years of revolution, particularly in recent two years, newspapers, and periodicals and many other publications have appeared upon the horizen of the country's jehad like shining , st$rs ‘ which represent not only the rich culture of our beloved homeland but are effective measures in the revival of Islamic noble culture.
                  • \ •
     We have also undertaken this
 important task of publishing Ferogh-
JULY-SEPTEMBER * 1991
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 journal hoping that it will add a drop to the unfathomable ocean,
     Ferogh, the organ of publicity for the invaluable thoughts of Afghan Islamic revolution, is being published under the supervision of HIA (Mohseni) Writers Council of Herat Province and will be . available fortnightly to our readers.
 EDITORIAL:    While discussing the
 developments in India, Pakistan $nd Afghanistan it concludes: With the past history as a witness and considering the Afghan resistance in the recent decade against the Russian puppet regime and the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan and with Russian military defeat, which resulted in the annihilation of the Russian Empire and the materialistic philosophy, it is demonstrated that the Afghans shall never accept a puppet regime from any quarter. It ought to be mentioned that /the majority of the Afghans favor a Strong and stable Pakistan, provided it does not interfere in the Afghan affairs, it allows the Afghans to determine their own fate and choose their own government       themselves, m While
 appreciating the steps taken by His Excellency, th6 Honorable Nawaz Sharif , the , Afghans solicit him to make it: convenient for the UN to quickly create the necessary suitable conditions for the political solution of the Afghanistan problem, so that with the settlement of . the Afghan issue, Afghanistan and Pakistan heave a Sigh of relief, on the one hand, and have at their disposal the time to support the Muslims of Kashmir and India in the face of prospective dangers from the
......
 Hindus, on the other hand.
    THE NEWS FROM SAR-E-CHAUK (GOSSIPS)
    It is said that Commanders in the outskirts of Kabul and" some other cities are being mobilized with dangerous weapons for a destructive battle. However, a source of All Commanders' Council while rejecting any involvement in the work, has said that the Council is favoring a political solution. The commanders, while describing the cries of such disastrous meddlings as dangerous has asked the government of His Excellency Nawaz Sharif to cut short the hands of such meddlers.
    It is said that there are hands working vehemently to sterilize UN Secretary. General peace plan. We would hope to God that such plots failed.
      It is being said that; an extensive and elaborate department by the name of "Defense of the Rights of Refugees and Mujaheddin" is being constituted by Ismail Arghandiwal with the employment, of great number of Afghans recently. But there are rumors to the effect that they purchase tanks, guns and heavy weapons from Afghans and Afghanistan. It is necessary that the department informed the Afghans regarding the aim of its establishment and its financial sources.
 -  It is being said jehad leader has deposited about 2-3 hundred million dollars in Swiss banks from the jehad fund in his own name.
    It is being said a jehad leader has purchased- TV antenna worth 75,000 rupees for his house.
 -  It is being said one of the elders Has transferred 27 million rupees from the Ministry account to his personal account iri the bank and has transferrd 90 million rupees to Quetta for the
157
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 construction of his house.
 ” It is said that during Iraq's invasion of Kuwait around 400 million dollars of jehad funds, saved by one of the "elders", was seized by Saddam Hussain. There is similar rumour about another leader as well.
       Hadaf
   SEPTEMBER
    V' 1
 EDITORIAL: "Our Objectives." Deviation
 from the right path will entail the, beginning of difficulties which bars one from achieving his aims and Objectives and entails dispair and puts the ‘society on the road to disunity. Such people, when they open their eyes, find out jfhat they haye not only gone far away from the real aims but are approaching the brinks of annihilation and have put others incharge of their destiny and would then ask: What has
 been our objectives? This is a question which has been answered to us by the path followed by the Prophets, peace be upon them, ... The teachings of Prophet start in two phases, the first ond is abased on the concept of unity, unity of God and unity of purpose and they have considered unity to the preamble of their teachings. But th,e second phase is aimed at reformation and eliminating the diseases which had been threatening a society...
 -  Life history of prophets, teteachl
 us that after upholding the banners of unity* tne prophets have oiagnozec the socjial problems of their 'people and hav'^ put struggle for the eradication of social diseases at the top of their agenda, diseases that threaten society towards annihilation. Thus we too- cian pinpoint our mission in this
 environment of migration and accelerate our efforts for eliminating the diseases which threaten our; people and jpin hands for the salvation of Our Society. To do iso* we should set aside our. disputes and,live in an atmosphere of fraternity and assistance.
      We should know our God and obey his commands and thus we should enjoin what is good and fair and forbid what is bad. We* should try to acquaint the Muslims with the realities of their religion and turn Islamic ethical values the basis of our lives.
      Separating Islamic values from what is wrong and based on speculation would be our third objective. We should acquaint our Muslim countryman with the realities of modern life, events of contemporary world and the difficulties facing the Islamic world, directing our people towards the correct path and attend our family affairs and secure their rights and privileges in the light of Islamic teachings.
      We would endeavor to prevent dissention .among our people v in ' the light bf Islamic teachings and avoid personality cults and to- honor and respect people within .the framework of
 the services they render. Whatever we are going to write will be void of unnecessary mere words and we hope we will not face difficulties in achieving, these aims and. we are sure that When our sincere brothers in faith put one third of their family expenses for achieving such noble ideas they will
 surely reach their goals. We are going to put at the services of our brethren and sisters this newspaper which has no other aim than earning the pleasure of Almighty God and, we are hopeful that we will benefit from the moral support and assistance of our countrymen.
158
  JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991   HfRllflNJfH/10
VOL. 4 NO.4
Haqiqat-ul-Islam
  SEPTEMBER
          4
 NEWS ITEM: The Afghan mujaheddin have
 conquerred four newly established government security posts on a .mountain in Mohammad Agha, Logar. According to a news item,an enemy( jet aircraft, was shot down in the Baraki region while it was bombing the position of Baraki Barak, mujaheddin. The pilot, Hafizul-lah, has been captured alive «by the mujaheddin. '
 persons are reported to have been killed. A large number were still missing.
                  8
 REPORT:   Reacting to the latest
 threatening comments of Benon Sevan, UN special representative. Professor Sayyaf, while insisting on the continuity of jehad said, "the UN plan for Afghanistan not only cannot resolve the problem butt will create other difficulties. To propose such a plan is tantamount to clear enmity with Islam and jehad and is considered as unjustified interference with the fate of a nation".
    A correspondent of Haqiqat-ul-Is-lam reports from the Parwan province, mujaheddin under the command of Mulla Abdul Razzaq, in the Koh-e-Safi area have shot down an enemy fighter aircraft in the Jauzak mountain area.
    The Jauzjan mujaheddin captured the Ganjo Qaudat Hill 25 July and. captured five government soldiers alive as well as some arms.
 Ittehad-e-Islami
                              JULY
               1
 NEWS ITEMS: During separate operations in Maidan Shar recently 12 military personnel were killed by the mujaheddin and 15 wounded.
   The Baghlan Mujaheddin captured three posts ^of the atheist regime 14 June.
   Severe gales and floods in Keshm district, Badakhshan razed several villages to the ground 18 June. Fifteen
    Professor Sayyaf added, "Benon Sevan had threatened in his remakrs that no one should be allowed to create hurdles for this plan. This a*in itself is a clear indication of the spite and deceit he rears in his heart against Islam and the staunch and sincere sons' of jehad".
15
NEWS ITEMS:   The Kabul militia forces
attacked mujaheddin positions at Pashtun Kot Faryab, 8 July. In the stiff resistance offered by the mujaheddin for two days,. the regime forces were repulsed who left 30 dead behind in their retreat.- Twenty-one of the militiamen were also wounded.
   During separate operations, the Herat mujaheddin, destroyed an enemy post 12 July at Langar-e-Khwa ja, Zendajan district, killing 14 troops.
- The Kabul regime jet aircraft raided the Rodat district, Nangarhar -29 Jtine, the congragation mosque in the town was destroyed during the raid and- seven locals were kitted.               ,
               22
REPORT:  Local  and  foreign  correspon-
159
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                     IlfflllflNJllflfl                                             VOL. 4 NO.4
 dents were briefed regarding the jehad developments during the last three weeks in the first press conference of heads and incharges of the military committees of the Peshawar based seven jehad organizations 21 July organized in the MIDIA headquarter of AIG news agency.
      In this press conference the last few .days achievements of mujaheddin in different fronts throughout the country,particularly in Logar, Maidan, Wardak, Paktiai Badakhshdn, Balkh, Kunduz, Faryab, Herat, ’ Kandahar, Nahgarhar , and Laghman provinces were briefly mentioned. Similarly it was reiterated with confidence that the process of jehad which had begun vehemently 13 years ago with enthusiasm was still continuing with the same spirit. It was explained to the correspondents how the mujaheddin with bare hands but equipped with the weapons of Islam and faith started war against a super power. During the 13 year war the mujaheddin have incapaci-ted 3,500 aircraft including bombers, reconnaissance and tranpost planes were incapacitated and 500 of them were totally destroyed. Before the war, the regime had       only 250    planes.
 Likewise during     13 years     22,000
 tanks, armored vehicles and army vehicles of the regime were destroyed whereas prior to the Russian invasion the regime possessed 2,800 tanks and armored cars.
      During the     conference,   while
 reiterating the continuity of jehad till final victory, the correspondents were earnestly urged that in view of the mujaheddin outstanding achievements instead of attending to the political side, they should turn their attention to the military process and keep the world aware about the progress of the Afghan jehad.
 NEWS, ITEMS: Following  the  capture of
 Cha Aab district 26 July, by the mujaheddin, Rustaq and Dasht-e-Qala were also captured 27 ‘July. During the operations leading to the capture of district Dasht-e-Qala , the deputy of regime 666 militia battalion along with his 1,500 men surrendered to the mujaheddin. The battalion' commanders along with 15 men later escaped to an unknown destination.
    The Wardak mujatieddin during the operation on enemy posts 21 July captured 11 of them, killed 110 enemy troops and militiamen and ' captured 18 of them.
 - While addressing the scholars in a get-together held on the campus Of Jehad University, Engineer Hekmatyar observed: "We, in Afghanistan, are not
 ready to form a coalition government with Najib, his communist henchmen and the elements who have fled to the west. We shall never accept a foreign imposed government in Afghanistan".
                                    AUGUST
                 5
 REPORT: IIA walked out of the Pakistan, Iran and mujaheddin tripartite conference in Islamabad. Regarding this a responsible . IIA source told the Al-Bunyan news agency that the Iranians had not arrived with the object of Afghanistan's freedom, establishment of Islamic order in Afghanistan and the resolution of the Afghan problem in accordance with the jehad objectives, rather they had threef aims of their own :
 1, Iranians wanted the session to have
 four sides to it:   Iran, Pakistan,
 Pakistan based jehad organizations and Iran based groups whereas this kind of action aims at splitting Afghanistan.
                  s          P
 2.   To have greater share for
160
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991      AFGHANJfHIIO                  VOL. 4 NO.4
 their supporters in Afghanistan and this constitutes an outright and unholy interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
 3.  They are trying to enforce the UN, plan whereas we have, earlier, rejected it.
      We neither like anybody's meddling in our domestic affairs nor accept imposed plans from whatever quarter it may be nor, fvor that matter, we allow the disintegration of our country. We are stunned and very surprized as to the position taken by Iran. We are thinking of the freedom of Afghanistan under the banner of Islam and they are thinking of multiplying their Shareholders.         '
      rConclucling, the source observed: all must know, that these days will be over but God willing, God Almighty will grant us our freedom exactly as we desire. But enmity with this irtujahed nation is not only unholy but its future consequences shall be painful for all. If somebody cannot heal our wcunds they, should not add salt to their injury either. In future, we want to have good relations with one and all and want to stretch a supporting arm to the Muslims. They, too, should not amputate this arm with their own hands.
                    12
 INTERVIEW:  Engineer  Ahmad Shah' Ahmad-
 zai, IIA deputy leader, in an interview with the Al-Runyan news agency, regarding the UN five point plan observed:  As a matter of fact our
 organization has a stable, consistent and clear policy and that is we want an Islamic elected government in Afghanistan founded by the mujaheddin. If this can be achieved through political means, we would welcome it. But the past 13 year jehad experience has demonstrated that our enemy only
 understands the logic of brute forCte. Therefore, without the continuity of jehad no other way can fulfil the aspirations of martyrs. But what matters most is that we are confident that our cause is justified and as such we could not care less whether anyone would like to side with us or not. I am sure that sincere and sagacious jehad organizations are sharing our views on the subject.
      In 'relation to the visits of Benon Sevan, the UN envoy on Afghanistan, he said: We are more than others in favor of peace, we are fighting for peace and so long as the causes for this wat exist, jehad will continue. In his last visit, Benon Sevan concealed the real object from me and Professor Sayyaf, but he had told Professor Rabbani; j.n clear terms, that we must negotiate with Najib.
      In accordance with US-Russian dictates, he wants to prepare mujaheddin for an inter-Afghan dialogue and hand over the reins of government to the elements who, during this blood stain war between,infidelity and Islam, were indifferent; our stand is that any one or group which agrees with a government of neutral elements or work in that line, they, are cruel minded elements who look down on the blood shed by our martyrs and they actually are committing a treason against the jehad and nation.
                 19
 REPORT: Speaking in a grand assembly of IIA organs 19' August in Hijrat Kalai, Professor Sayyaf observed: . The process which is currently advancing speedily for resolving the Afghanistan case is part of international conspiracies which calls for responsible moves and accountable steps from our side.
      Today at global governmental level, without exception, it has been
161
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HHiIIhHUllUlll             VOL.  4 NO.4
 decided that the Afghanistan case be : resolved through negociation among all the Afghans and the entire warring• factions, resulting in the unanimity of all and breathing a sigh of relief. In other words, they are united on this point that a secular order ought to be established in Afghanistan because the present system cannot 'tolerate Islam. In fact the establishment of an, Islamic government is suicidal for them or like an open sword dangling over their heads that is why currently an unprecedented consensus is underway against Islam and righteousness.
    Professor Sayyaf said, the dif fences which the ,US and USSR have forgotten and the^ agreements which they have reached between each other were a series of covers and titles used as camonflage for their -planning against Islam i.e. how to contain the establishment of an Islamic order. How to check the progress of1 flow and rise of jehad among -the Islamic Ummah. The removal of Saudi-Iran and Iran-US differences is part of these efforts and all these developments revolve round the axis of the Afghan case. .
              26
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin of Sarobi
 during their operations 18 August captured five regime posts, killed 60 soldiers and militiamen and injured 20 of them. Last week.the mujaheddin of Shega district, firing a .Stinger missile, shot down a ' jet aircraft of the regime in the vicinity of Kandahar Airport and captured Mohammed Karim the pilot, a native of Helmand province. Mujaheddin captured 10 posts in Wardak province 17 August.
    SEPTEMBER
               2
    According to MIDI&, the mujaheddin
 in. the liberated Khogyani district, Nangarhar, captured five members of KHAD network which wasx operating in the area for a long time. Those captured are:  Israel, Zahoor,   Malik Mohammad
 Alam,, Malik. Shah Walid and Ayub.
      According to MIDIA, 130 militiamen in the Sar-e-pul district, Jauzjan, led by Mohammad Gul, surrendered to the mujaheddin 23 August.
      The .Kabul province mujaheddin captured three government . bases- in the Khak-e-Jabarsub-district south east* of Kabul 17 August and set ablaze three tanks.
                  16
      Professor Sayyaf, leader of the IIA and Prime Minister of the AIG, in an interview with the Al-Bunyan news agency in relation to the possibility of a military coup 1 in Kabul has said,, those who were at the service of the Russians when the . Russians ‘ were in Afghanistan and after the withdrawal of the ' Russian troops, ' too, -have . not refrained from supporting the Russian hireling regime and despite many coups, which have taken place in the Kabul military, have still survived and still remain subservient to alien cause. He said in my view any jehad power supporting- a coup by the Kabul regime officers will,actually commit big injustices to this grand Afghan jehad. The, final Victory for the 12-year military jehad in which . 1.5 million have been martyred# will not be achieved, by a handful! of foreign agents- and that too with the Russian advice. Instead, at the. final stages of this grand jehad a regime will come into power which will be comprised of infidels and Muslim enemies and such a mixed government in fact is an infidel government.
      We have sworn to Almighty God that
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 untii the formation of a pure Islamic ' governmnent we will continue our jehad and will fight a mixed regime even if it is very close to us. We will fight it in the same manner as we are fighting the present un-Islamic regime and my wish from all the jehadic forces is not to allow the jehad results wasted through coups and other collusions.
 *• Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales leader of the HIA in an interview with MIDIA has said, at present too military supply has been cut to the mujaheddin and ' therefore sending arm to the Najib regime will further strengthen his program of national reconciliation while the mujaheddin have been already deprived of outside assistance and according to this plan, hatched by imperialist powers, Afghanistan will be plunged into the hands of an
 un-Islamic regime., And this would mean to them the submission of the mujahed to the Kabul regime. However, we have always relied on Almighty God and our experience has,1 shown that victory did not depend so much on arms and the mujaheddin are neither afraid of such a cut nor they will accept an un-Islamic political solution.
                        Inqelab-e-Islarni
      Afghanistan
                           AUGUST
              1
 INTERVIEW: Mohammed Ibrahim Khaliqyar,
 General Commander * of Kushk-e-Kohna sub-district in Badghis’ has said in an interview: "By the grace of God
 Almighty complete order and discipline prevail among the trench holders of Islam in Badghis province and they are holding oh to a single trench and continuing their war operations against
 VOL, 4 NO.4
 the aggressive enemy. Following the martyrdom of Mujahed Brother, the valiant Moallim Neik Mohammed, some lack of discipline was observed in the jehad activites of Badghis. The atheist communist regime used the development to its advantage and staged attacks resulting in the fall of a vast area under the influence of, mujaheddin, to the atheist regime. The conditions in the area deteriorated to such an extent that it was feared that the jehad gains willNbe wiped out in Badghis. However, last year's successful operations were launched against the regime through a coordinated plan undertaken by Badghis commanders. During these two-month-long operations many people, who, have had been associated against their will with* the regime, returned to jehad trenches and the entire regime controlled area came under the mujaheddin control and some 5,000 pdeces of heavy and light weapons were seized by the mujaheddin, adding ‘a glorious , chapter to their successes and achievements. At the end of those operations, a magnificent gathering of all the Badghis chieftains and commanders was organized ' in Dara-e-Sabz in which Mujahed Brothers; Mawlawi Mohammed Ibrahim and Abdul Aziz Nazari,were elected as Amir and general commander respectively.
     He said, "My message to mujaheddin and all the oppressed people of •beloved Afghanistan is that in recognition of the sacred blood of martyrs, they should ; put aside their ethnic, linguistic, regional organizational and factional differences and hold fast to unity and solidarity arid confine all their energy in the defense of their belief, freedom and sovereignty.
 COMMENT: The newspaper has referred to the Soviet coup and relating it to Afghanistan, has said, what affects
 163
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991          AIM J[
VOL. 4 NO.4
 will have the coining into power of hard line communists on the Afghan issue. First of all, it should be mentioned that Gorbachev was a hard line communist and only the West could see in him good things as he opened the Soviet markets in their face and did pot resist liberation movements in east and central Europe, But as far as Afghanistan was concerned, Mr. Gorbachev had failed to resort to any serious measure for solving the issue and after he was forced to withdraw his troops from Afghanistan, he persistently tried to strengthen the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul and did not allow the people of Afghanistan to determine their own fate. Instead, Moscow increased his assistance to the Kabul regime bringing it to the level of $   400 million a month. Russian
 planes have been bombing Afghan villages martyring hundreds of people every day. Therefore, if peace-loving remarks by Gorbachev were appealing to the west, the people of Afghanistan could not observe any- special and trustworthy move from this deceitful personality. The new government which! is comprised of KGB elements' and Najib; tutors may well increase its assistance to the Kabul regime to further strengthen Najib position..
      Taking these realities into consideration, our friends and those who have been financing Afghan jehad should also change their position. During the past three years, assistance offered to .the mujaheddin and. refugees has been reduced as a result of the deceitful policy pursued by Gorbachev. And it was a result of this policy that the general situation of our jehad deteriorated and extraordinary pressure was being put on the mujaheddin organizations to force them to talks with the puppet regime.
                                                              Now that the real face of communism has once again been unmasked it is
 possible that the world will no) longer be deceived and would support our holy jehad with interest and inside the Soviet Union they would demand a real non-communist system so that these oppressed nationalities may eventually observe the real dawn of independence and freedom.
Jawanan-e-Musalman
                                    JULY
               9
 REPORT: While addressing 17 June the
 condolence meeting held for Martyr Sayyed Allauddin., Professor Rabbani, the JIA leader, observed: "As long as
 the entire jehad groups fail to adopt a united position,the Afghan problem will remain unresolved and this will not be in mujaheddin's interest". He said, "if the UN has the strength and power and the other countries have the guts to tell the truth then Russia should be pressed in right earnest interationally to bring to an end all kinds of her interferences in Afghanistan. The other topic which remains as an obstacle for a basic settlement of the Afghan problem is the government of a handful of puppets who, until yesterday, were branded as Khalq and Parcham parties and as of today are named as Hezb-e-Watan. Despite their different marks and garbs they remain atheists and communists and at no stage should be allowed to, take part in the coalition government, the future elections or the inter-Afghan dialogue.
      "We have said that they are worse than the Nazis. The lyazis could not participate in elections and the whole world unanimously supported that, the Nazis had killed the Jews considering them a threat to their faith of Cristianity and a danger to their homeland. But those who killed
 164
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
1.5 million people , of their nation, betrayed their country and defied their religion and beliefs, have no right, not by a long chalk, to do so.
    He said, as far as Islamic countries are concerned, on that topic too, I explained this point. to the authorities in Iran, and here to our Pakistani friends that they should harmonize their position in regard to the Afghanistan case with that of the mujaheddin.
      AUGUST 6
NEWS ITEMS: During the last three
weeks, four strategic and important enemy bases have been Overrun in fcadakhshan. The mujaheddin captured Zebak district 13 July and occupied Eshkashem 21 July. Similarly they recently captured two important enemy bases in Shighnan and Wakhan.
- Speaking during the burial rites of Mawlawi Abdul Ahad Wahedi, who had expired 27 Juiy, Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA, said, "We are badly in need of scholars and the learned capable- of understanding the roots of our problems."
- As a result of effective mujaheddin operations, the Salang Highway remained closed for traffic. In the operation, the mujaheddin captured 23 enemy| security posts and destroyed 18 tanks,.
50 vehicles and two mobile workshops killing all their crews.
   Kausar-I
                             JUNE 26
NEWS ITEMS: On the arrival of Zaher
                                                                  165
Shah's official delegation to Quetta a small gathering of refugees and NIFA mujaheddin were assembled in the city. Mohammad Ibrahim Mujaddedi and a number of refugees spoke in support of the ex-King of Afghanistan.
-   Kabul-based diplomats say that although differences in the Hezb-e-Watan ranks is a natural phenmenon the fresh differences among the followers of Karmal and Najib indicate a political.change which the Russians intend to bring about in the near future.
-  At the end of his official visit to Pakistan, leader of ex-King Zaher Shah's delegation, Sultan Mahmood Ghazi stated, "talks were held within the framework of the UN peace plan for the solution of the Afghan problem and the creation of a singular leadership for the people of Afghanistan."
   In a message on the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha , Professor Sayyaf urged the Muslims all over the world to honor the Afghan martyrs who sacrificed their lives in the battle of Islam against infidelity. He hoped that the Afghan Muslims will be able to perform their next Eid prayers under the Shadow of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
   On the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha celebrations, Hekmatyar, the HIA leader, said: "The puppet Kabul regime shall collapse in the wake of a military coup". Political observers believe that Hekmatyar who is trying to !instigate the regime army to revolt against Najib, is. of the opinion that it would be the easiest way to topple him through a military uprising.
-   Informed sources in Peshawar say that talks between HWIA and some mujaheddin organizations pertaining to participation of HWIA in the draft planning . commission have so far remained inconclusive.
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
     In a communique named the "Declaration of Defense Organization of Afghanistan" which has been secretly circulated in Kabul, it is disclosed that a high level Soviet delegation, led by the Foreign Minister of Turkmenistan, is on a visit to Kabul to study the political change therein. In the declaration, which is based on reliable official documents, it is said that Russians are once again bent upon bringing exhibitory changes in their puppet regime by staging a successful military coup with the support of the Inteile,gence forces.^ After the coup a 20-member council will take charge for 6 months, and general elections will then be held. The 20-member list contains the names of the some mujaheddin commanders and Zaher Shah’s supporters.
 emphasized that until the time the US aid to mujaheddin is cut, a clear outcome of International political efforts towards the resolution of Afghanistan has to surface. It was decided in the meeting that mujaheddin may be asked ito get prepared for the creation of a broad-based political administration      in       Afghanistan
 participated by all political and jehad forces along with foreign-based independent Afghan personalities.
 - Hujjat-ul-Islam Murtazavi, spokesmen of HWIA, during a meeting with two foreign journalists in Islamabad, has rejected any role for Zaher Shah, as a leader. He, however, said that the. former King can participate in the proceedings only as an ordinary Afghan;
                 29
NEWS ITEMS:  Pakistan foreign office
sources have confirmed that a Soviet high level delegation is scheduled to visit Pakistan in July. The delegation will discuss the Afghan issue with Pakistan government officials.
     In a press interview Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, HIA leader, observed, no western or oriental merchant would be allowed to gamble with the fate of Afghanistan. Regarding the creation of a 28 member commission he said that commissions of this nature would be futile as it would divert the mujaheddin attention. .
-  Informed sources in Kabul say that 30 highly placed military and civil officers of Kabul regime have been apprehended. A Kabul based foreign diplomat says it was understood that Babrak Karmal, the farmer President of the Kabul regime,was under house arrest and his visitors are also being tailed by Security officials. The same diplomat ibelieves that Najib, the Kabul ruler compared with any other faction, is still enjoying plenty of powers and the state armed forces and the security forces support him.
-  According to a report of the New York Times- Pakistan govern authorities held an important meeting in connection with the Afghanistan issue in Islamabad. During the meeting it was
-In Kabul, the Perchamis have issued a declaration    entitled      "Unity
supporters". This declaration, which stems, from recent conflicts in Kabul, emphasizes that they ought to hold an urgent meeting in order to determine future party policy and leadership.
                                    JULY
               3
NEWS ITEMS: Informed sources in Pe-
shawar have said the last contingent of mujaheddin, who had gone to Saudi Arabia to defend the Holy places and fight the Iraqi regime, have lately returned to Peshawar. Informed sources state that the faction of mujaheddin who agreed to send these fighters had
 166
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         flfGHANlIlHIHl             VOL. 4 NO.4
been specially favored by Saudi quarters.
-  Klaus Jacobi,Swiss Foreign Minister* who is visiting Kabul and Islamabad at the head of, a political delegation, besides the Kabul regime administration, has had a meeting with Professor Mohammad Asghar,the leader of National Salvation Front of Afghanista, and one of Zaher Shah's supporters also. Professor Asghar has stated that no military plan can prove a good savior of the grief stricken Afghans. Regarding this, visit, Mr. Jacobi said he had no fresh proposals or new plan but had undertaken the visit to Kabul and Islamabad upon the request of a number of Swiss-based and other Afghans.
-  A HWIA delegation met Ghulam Ishaq Khan,the President of Pakistan. During the meeting Ghulam Ishaq Khan urged the HWIA to participate in the Peshawar organized commission which works on an an alternative for the Afghan issue or at least send its "representative as an observer to the commission. In a press conference, Mr. Murtazavi, spokesman of HWIA told newsmen that his delegation would proceed to Tehran for consultations with HWIA leaders and would return to Islamabad.
    After the UN Secretary General declaration of his 5-point peace plan for Afghanistan, this is the first visit of his special envoy, Mr. Sevan, to Islamabad, Kabul and, Tehran. Political observers opine that Sevan was endeavoring to coordinate the various interpretations of Afghan political forces regarding the plan.
    In a message to Al-Bunyan        news
agency, Professor Sayyaf has stated that acceptance of UN plan is tantamount to oppositions wi-th Islam.
                                                              Dr. Farooq Azam,' one of the most active AIG Cabinet Ministers, in a
 press conference, tendered his resignation from the Ministry of Education of the AIG and as deputy leader of NIFA. It is said that with resignation from these posts, Mr. Azam will concentrate on his private cultural works so that finally he could establish close relations with all the parties.
 - Pravda, the Soviet Communist Par-? ty organ, writes, the Kabul regime was preparing to play a political role in the future of Afghanistan. It added that although disunity and rift among Watan Party leaders was at its height now, it was hoped that irrespective of any regime assuming power in Afghanistan,. the Watan Party would fulfil its positive role in the future of Afghanistan,
                   6
 NEWS ITEMS: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, in a recent meeting with the Swiss Foreign Minister, while rejecting Najib's participation in any way in the political fate of Afghanistan, has said, "the people of Afghanistan hate the Kabul regime”. But a Western diplomat while commenting on Jacobi's visit to Pakistan, has said that he is endeavoring to encourage all side to the problem to organize a Council in the UN famework resulting in the assumption of power by Zaher Shah , ex-King of Afghanistan# who is acceptable to the moderate circles rn Kabul and Peshawar. The diplomat has said at least one mujaheddin Organization- the one headed by Gaxlani
 - is trying to help the Swiss diplomat in his efforts.
 - Mohammad Ismail Siddiqi, Secretary of the 28 member Commission for framing a plan for the future of Afghanistan, has said that at the very outset this commission had decided there will be no room for Najib in future Afghanistan
167
 JUIY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 and the mujaheddin reject holding any kind of talks with him.
    A Kabul based foreign -diplomat, quoting the Kabul puppet regime Foreign Office sources,who was present in talks between the visiting Swiss Foreign Minister and the Kabul regime authorities, has said that the latter intends to send a high-ranking delegation to Geneva for unofficial talks with some mujaheddin representa-atives. These sources say that the Swiss Foreign Minister has told the Kabul officials that at least 11 mujaheddin representatives, having close relations with some of Peshawar based parties, are willing to discuss the UN Secretary General plan and the future of the Watan Party with Kabul regime officials-
 t While the Swiss Foreign Minister is endeavoring to pave the way for an assembly and get together the entire Afghan political forces, including ExrKing Zaher Shah, and the present Kabul regime supporters, Mr. Hekmatyar gnce again, has condemned the role of . Zaher Shah and Najib. Citing the example of Bangladesh, he has said it could be that in Afghanistan too a judge or' a University professor assumes power during the transitional period.
                   10
 NEWS ITEMS: In a report on violations
 of human rights in Afghanistan, Amnesty International says that there are .innumerable reports to the effect that K$bul regime is not sparing the use of eny kind of tortvire against its, opponents. Amnesty International in its report also urges the. mujaheddin to treat their prisoners humanely.
 - £ source of the Swiss Foreign Office gays that the visit of Mr. Jacobi to Kabul and Islamabad took place in response to a request by Afghans themselves and its aim was to pave the
VOL. 4 NO.4
 way for the implementation of the UN Secretary General's plan. Observers opine that the Swiss Foreign Minister's efforts are, to a great extent, directed towards securing the return of Zaher Shah to Afghanistan.
 -  A spokesman of Indian Foreign Office has said that the new government of India, has welcomed the UN Secretary General plan for Afghanistan and considers it as basis for solving the issue. It, however, has made no mention of the positions of the Afghan Muslim mujaheddin, who have fought the Russian puppet regimes.
    In a press interview, Ahmad Shah Masood has said, "the presence of Najib regime is the biggest hurdle in the way of peace seeking efforts in Afghanistan and, according      to him,  with    the
 presence of Najib puppet regime in Kabul all kinds of peace efforts will prove futile. Regarding the differences among mu jaheddin, Masood has said that by the grace of God Almighty, at present there      was more  unity   and
 harmony among     the  mujaheddin ranks
 which was attributed to contacts and negotiations among    the    commanders
 inside the country.
    Mawlana Jalaluddin Haqqani, the well-known mujaheddin commander in Paktia, had a meeting with Shaikh Zaid Bin Sultan Al-Nahyan, the leader of United Arab Emirates. Political observers say that the meeting which was locally telecast, after the Khost victory, is the first official and 1 state reception abroad accorded to a mujaheddin commander. While appreciating the struggles of the mujaheddin, Shaikh Zaid described the latest efforts for the political solution of Afghanistan as positive and said the United Arab Emirates wanted a just and Islamic settlement of the Afghanistan problem.
 - During the Chinese Prime Minister's
168
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
IAN J[l
VOL. 4 NO.4
visit, Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the President of Iran, stated in his speech that Iran could not remain indifferent to the situation in Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic favored the establishment of an Islamic and neutral government in Afghanistan.
                   13
NEWS ITEMS: Mohsen Razai, Chief of the army and general commander of the Iranian Guards of’ Revolution met with some mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad. Razai said, "We do not intend to plan any solution for our Afghan brothers because such work is up to the Afghans/ themselves but we. are determined to support the aspirations and wishes of the mujahed nation of Afghanistan decisively." While rejecting any role for Najib in future Afghanistan and total support of our country's Islamic movement, he said, " Is Afghanistan akin-, to Cambodia where 50% of the votes , ought to be cast in favor of the atheist Russian puppet regime?"
-  Bombay Times of India writes; The Americans are providing the Russians with information to enable the Russians to blast some of mujaheddin depots. The daily claims that in regard to disarming the Kabul regime and mujaheddin, the US and the USSR will not only come up with guarantees but, in the . first place, information pertaining to armament depots of mujaheddin and Kabul regime will be exchanged among them.
-  Dr. Hasan Turabi, Sudanese leader of Islamic Trust, has visited Pakistan and in attempt to unify the mujaheddin groups , he wants, for the time being, to at least bring together HI A headed by Hekmatyar and JIA headed by Professor Rabbani. Mr. Turabi believes that in the face of a strong policy and forceful political confrontation, Najib ought to be overthrown, because in the
 absence of a joint political plan the fall of Najib will be an impossible task.
                17
 NEWS ITEMS: Asadullah Sarwari, former
 chief of Intelligence Services of Kabul puppet regime (AKSA) and ambassador to Yemen, who had been arrested in New Delhi by Indian police because of illegal overstay, had been sentenced to six years imprisonment by a primary court. Referring the case ' to the Supreme Court, his sentence was reduced to one year imprisonment and a fine of
 5,000 Indian rupees. Informed sources say that Sarwari, who had been indicted in the last year abortive coup in Kabul, had been detained and imprisoned by a joint plot of the Kabul regime and the Indian Security Force.
 - A tripartite treaty among the intelligence services of India, Israel
      'i
 and the Kabul regime has been signed. Informed sources opine that Kabul authorities have more or less agreed to utilize the knowledge and experience of Israeli officials and hand over its own knowledge and experience to Israeli and Indian officials to be used for victimizing the Palestinian and Kashmiri Muslims.
     Informed sources in New Delhi say that it was in the wake of this agreement that a month ago two Israeli officials, along with an Indian delegation carrying Indian passport, arrived in Kabul in order to establish joint cooperation among the espionage networks of the three countries.
                20
 NEWS ITEMS: The BBC reported that some mujaheddin leaders too have had saving accounts in the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) of Shaikh Zaid Bin Sultan Al-Nahyan which had its
169
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991               MAN JlBflfl
 offices shut down in England because of allegations of widespread fraud. The radio did not elaborate.
    informed sources in Peshawar say that an AIG delegation is preparing to participate in the sessions of the OIC to be convened in Istanbul in the first week of August. An Iranian Foreign Office source has stated in this regard that in case the AIG is not intending to send a large delegation then the question of sending a delegation comprizing the mujaheddin supported by Iran would be considered.
 - Sultan Ali Keshtmand, former Prime Minister of the Kabul regime recently returned to Kabul upon Soviet mediation and attended the Watan party sessions openly. Even less than a fortnight's stay in Kabul he left for Moscow again but after a series of meetings and contacts with Soviet Communist leaders once more returned to Kabul. On his arrival in Kabul, he immediately addressed a letter to Dr. Najib Chairman of the Watan Party and the Executive Council in which he had submitted his resignation from Watan Party. It is stated in the letter that he had always advocated the principle of unity, freedom of criticism of leadership which was never heeded. But according to a Kabul based Western diplomat he knows about the secret activities of some Watan party members directed towards the formation of a new party. Keshtmand is expected to be a member of the new party to be formed in the near figure.
    After the signing of the joint declaration of HIA, JIA AND IIA based on the rejection of any kihd of enemy plan for a solution of the Afghan issue. Prof. Rabbani leader of JIA in a speech has said that the UN 5-point plan has to be further explained. If "inter-Afghan dialogue" means talks with Najib or his regime, in that case we shall never be ready for talks-.with
VOL. 4 no.4
 Najib or his regime.
                 24
 NEWS ITEMS: Functions commemorating the martyrdom anniversary of Imam-e-Hassan, the grand-child of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, were held in Kabul against the wishes of the Kabul regime and, despite the fact that Najib was confident that in his presence at such functions the participants would not launch criticism against the regime, one congragation in the midst of a function and during prayers was asked to pray for the establishment of an Islamic rule in Afghanistan and the deliverance o'f the country from the hand of oppressers by which they meant Najib regime. Political observers say that although the regime intended to silence the criticism of its opposition that the regime was a puppet and followed atheistic and anti-religious policies, the upsurge of the Shia population of Kabul against the regime could not be silenced.
 * Zavir-ul-Shareqa, the Vice President of the Syrian Arab Republic, has paid a visit to Kabul. In a function held in his honor by Abdul Rahim Hatef in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kabul regime, he supported the UN plan for solving the Afghanistan issue. The Kabul regime is trying to once again
 occupy the Afghanistan seat in the OIC-
                            \ . .
 now given to the mujaheddin- through extending its relations with a number of Arab countries.
                 27
 REPORT:  We  have learned that a new
 party called "The National Islamic Movement of Afghanistan" has been newly founded. The party has established agencies in several European countries and Dr. Sayyed Makhdoom Rahin is the Secretary-General of the party. During the past 13 years a number of Organizations and parties have been established? however, the oppressed and
170
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         AffiHflMJ(HAO              VOL. 4  NO.4
 mujahed nation of Afghanistan does not have favorable views about parties and party politics. Despite this fact Mr. Rahin and his colleagues, due to reasons of their own, have resorted to the establishment of a new party. Rahin was born in Kabul in 1946 and his family is of the Afghan "Sadat". In addition to teaching at the College of Literature of Kabul University he was, for  some     time. President   of  the
 International Center of Koshani Studies, President of Culture and Arts in the Ministry of Information arid Culture and member of the 1975 Loya Jirgah during the Presidency of Mohammad Daoud. It is being said that. Mr. Rahin      alongwith some   of  his
 colleagues in 1983 also attempted to form a party. However, it is not known why his efforts then did not yield any results. Perhaps a number of his own colleagues were against the program offered by Mr. Rahin. It should not be forgotten that Mr. Rahin after the collapse of mujaheddin alliance served as an advisor to Prof. Seghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of NLFA, and despite the fact that, according to him, he did not belive in the AIG he was actively working as an advisor to it. The new party, at present, is publishing a monthly newspaper. So far only one issue has been published. The Afghanistan National Islamic Movement (ANIM) has said that after the complete liberation and independence of the country its program will be geared towards realization of four principles:
 (1) Islam, (2) Country or Motherland,
 (3) National Solidarity and (4) Social Justice.
                                               31
 NEWS ITEMS: The UN stopped to carry on its work on 57 constructional projects in Afghanistan. which was to be-implemented under SAL’AM program. A representative of the UN Secretary General in a statement announced that,
 the UN needed $ 31 million to continue the work of the projects. He added that continuity of the war in Afghanistan and the doubtful nature of future conditions surrounding it have made the former aid donor countries, under SALAM program, indifferent to UN projects. The UN Secretary General representative mentioned the following projects among those      affected:    — agricultural,
 children's vaccination, education arid assistance to the war-disabled in Afghanistan.            x .
 -  During the tripartite conference in Islamabad 8 August comprising Afghan mujaheddin, Iranian and Pakistani senior officials, the Islamic identity* restoration of independence, national sovereignty, non-alighned status of Afghanistan and the dismissal of the usurper regime in Kabul were emphasized. Pertaining to the assistance program for Afghanistan Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special envoy, said the assistance has been
.curtailed considerably since the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan in 1989. Needless to say that confrontations and rifts among mujaheddin factions and the enmity of some of these organizations with Western aid donor institutes coupled with incapability of Afghan mujaheddin to provide themselves with a political leadership in order to bring to an end the long drawn war, have contributed to this issue.
 -  A special assistant to the Iranian Foreign Minister has said that as requested by HIA, Engineer Qutbuddin met with Ali Akbar Vilayati. During the meeting the Afghanistan issue and relations <; between Islamic Republic of Iran and HIA were discussed.
 -  Coinciding with the statement of the tripartite conference of the Afghan mujaheddin, Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan, convened in the Pakistan Foreign office in Islamabad
171
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         flfftlWHJtHflO             VQL. 4  N0.4
for two days, Robert Oakley, the US Ambassador in, Islamabad said: "It is
good that progress is being made towards the solution of Afghanistan issue   through the tripartite
conference". He added that he appreciates the* efforts of any country in promoting the solution of regional problems. When Mr. Robert Oakley was asked if he had fixed a suitable time for the formation of a new government in 'Kabul, he replied that an elected government in Afghanistan can be established by the Afghan people themselves and not the US. We never want to impose any kind of political solution of the Afghanistan problem op the Afghan people. The Afghans themselves should decide when and how to form an elected government.
                                 AUGUST
                                          3
NEWS ITEMS:  Dr. Jawwad Mansuri,  the
Ambassador of Islamic Republic of Iran in Pakistan, has said: The tripartite
Islamabad conference was of regional and international significance. He added that the conference blocked the routes to the influence of opportunist and self seeking powers who were bent upon wasting the blood of the martyrs of the Afghan Islamic revolution.
   The WUFA organized a one day seminar in Peshawarr regarding the UN Secretary General plan. Mr. Pazhwak,. formerly permanent representative to the UN, said in the seminar that the plan was defective and needed to be amended. He added that the plan contained some principled which had to be omitted and on the other hand there were also principles which had to be added to it.
- In an exclusive interview with Kausar, Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special envoy for
 Afghanistan said, "the Islamabad conference was a great .success for the mujaheddin and the resolution of the Afghan problem". Sevan was asked to comment on the third clause of the UN plan, to which he replied that inter-Afghan dialogue has a particular meaning the interpretation of which
 will be made in due course.
                                                  X.
 - General Mirza Aslam Beg the Chief of the A*rmy General Staff had arranged a banguet in the Army General Headquarters in Rawalpindi in honor of Afghan jehad leaders in which he said, "The Islamabad tripartite conference is ah invaluable step ’ in the way of supporting the aspirations of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and the removal of World imperialistic designs against Islam, the Afghan jehad and the interests of the Muslims in the region.
 - Akram Zaki Pakistan Foreign Affairs Secretary General said: The declaration of Islamabad tripartite conference will remain an offcial UN document among Iran and the mujaheddin.
                  7
 NEWS ITEMS: Soviet Russian sources say that in talks held, between American Secretary Of State -and the Soviet Foreign . Minister and also during discussions between Gorbachev and George Bush, the two sides discussed Afghanistan only briefly. Some sources are of the opinion that it is possible that the fundamentalist parties and groups which had rejected the UN plan for the Afghanistan issue will be sidestepped. However, Moscow has been insisting that in the future of Afghanistan the Kabul regime must have a role.
      Prof. Rabbani in the OIC Foreign Minister's conference in Istanbul has said, "the presence of the Kabul regime
172
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
 is the only obstacle for solving the Afghanistan issue”. He had added that he urged all Islamic countries that until the final solution of the Afghanistan issue and victory of the mujaheddin they should support the mujaheddin and after their victory also they should continue their support and assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 * The Kabul regime Embassy in Ankara in a statement has supported the UN Secretary-General's plan on Afghanistan and has urged the OIC foreign ministers to accept the plan .,/ks a basis for solving the Afghanistan issue.
 * Informed sources in Peshawar say that the Russian Embassy has contacted Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA and incharge of the foreign affairs of the AIGf in regard to the Russian POWs. After the contact, the Soviet delegation met Eng. Abdur Rahim, President of RAFA, and a high-ranking official of the JIA. Details of these talks and their resuits have not been issued. However, it is being said that the result of these talks will be spelt out by the JIA in a news conference.
 * Mirza Aslam Beg, the Chief of Army Staff of the Pakistani armed forces, in an address to army officers in Peshawar in regard to the peaceful solution of Afghanistan issue has said, consensus between the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Islamic Republic of Iran on the issue will be the first step for unity and agreement towards achievement of regional security between Pakistan,
 •Islamic Republic of Iran and the future government of Pakistan.
                   10
 NEWS ITEMS: Hujjatul Islam Akhlaqi, the First Vice President of the political commission of HWIA, says that in the discussions held by the representatives
 VOL. 4 no.4
 of the HWIA with the Peshawar-based mujaheddin on the solution of the Afghanistan problem the question of the distribution of seats between the Peshawar-and Iranian-based mujaheddin actually did not come up and we have not yet reached any agreement in this regard.
 *  An authentic English newspaper. The Times of Bombay, quoting recently Indian information sources in Kabul has said that Najib, the President of the Kabul regime, is seeking ways to step-down in favor of a coalition government acceptable to the mujaheddin. The paper says that Najib during a recent visit to the Soviet Union, which was made secretly* witnessed the lack of interest oi Russian authorities for further Soviet support of his government. Najib during this journey was not able to meet Soviet leader Gorbachev but only held talks with an official responsible for the Afghanistan affair in the Soviet Foreign Ministry. During these talks he was seeking ways to pave the way for the establishment of an interim neutral government through peaceful means, a government acceptable to the "armed opposition". The Russian authorities have ordered Najib to consider the following two alternatives:
 1. The transfer of power to a neutral government which will be able to safeguard and guarantee continuation of the political activities of the Watan Party.
 2. The staging of a bloodless coup to convince the opposition for holding general elections.
 *  About the visit of a high-ranking Soviet delegation ’ to Islamabad it is being said that the Soviet Union is proposing that military aid to all sides engaged in the Afghan war should be banned and, together with it, a cease-fire, more or less covering en-
173
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        AMUJIH/IO                  VOL.  4 NO.'
 tire Afghanistan, proclaimed.. However, the government of Pakistan urges the fall of Najib regime before any other step.
 * Fresh and important talks have taken place between the Kabul regime leader Najib and Benon Sevan, the special representative of the UN Secretary General. Foreign diplomats in Kabul say that in these talks the two have discussed issues related to an interim government and the role of Na-jib and Hezb-e-Watan.
                                               17
 NEWS ITEMS:  Kabul diplomats say that
 during the past month political detentions in Kabul had increased and 75 army officers alone have been arrested accused of involvement in /mutiny against the regime. These diplomats say that during the past six months at least five mutinies by army officers of the regime were quelled and in one of them the mujaheddin infiltration was observable. A Polish diplomat, who had recently had, a meeting with the Deputy Minister of National Security, has said that 85% of the Khalqis in the Kabul army have relations with the mujaheddin in one or another way and this is due to the fact that the Khalqis, the majority of whom come from the countryside of Afghanistan, are afraid of the mujaheddin victory and domination and no longer want to fight long with the Parcham wing of the communist party against the mujaheddin. *
 * The US is sabotaging the tripartite mujaheddin, Iran' and Pakistran conference. The Los Angeles Times, discussing the issue has said that the US government has also asked the Saudi government to exert influence on Pakistan and Afghan mujaheddin instead of organizing such conferences they should all support an interntional conference for solving the Afghanistan
 issue.
 * Sulaiman Laiq, the Vice President of the Watan Party, in an interview with the AP has said the joint statement issued by the tripartite conference in Islamabad means that the neighbors of Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan, also, instead of taking into view the reality of the situation, have contented themselves with the presence of only mujaheddin and ignored the role of the Kabul regimei He said the neighbours of Afghanistan should also accept the Kabul regime as a reality. According to Laiq the tripartite conference by giving priority in its statement to the down-fall of the Kabul regime is causing concern for the Kabul regime.
 * Kozerev, the Deputy Foreign Minister of Soviet Russia, after completing a visit to Islamabad in an interview with the Izvestia newspaper in Moscow has said, in the meetings which he held with the Pakistan authorities, the Soviet Russia and Pakistan had reached agreement on the issue of solving the Afghanistan problem. He considered his meeting with the mujaheddin delegation also of importance and said that he heard the viewpoints of the mujaheddin and also conveyed to them directly his own views. Kozerev considered the holding of tripartite talks between the mujaheddin, Iran and Pakistan as an important step for the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
                                               19
 NEWS ITEMS: In relation to changes taking place in the Soviet Union Shaikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni, leader of HIA, has said Gorbachev and Russia were of the opinion that a political solution should be found to the Afghanistan problem. He vsaid with all the shortcomings which Gorbachev had, he was a realist and has realized the reality and wanted to save Russia. But for us,
174
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 from the point of our resistance, it did not matter to whatever extent the extremists come to power in Russia. It will increase their own difficulties and the Afghanistan issue may be prolonged a little.
      Mawlawi Mohammad khales has said the downfall of Gorbachev is in the interest of jehad because to whatever extent, internal differences and disputes ' increased in the Soviet government, the Soviet leaders will become pre-occupied with their own internal affairs and will side-stet the Afghanistan issue and leave it as it is. He said with the coming into state of conservatives in the Soviet Union, it is possible the Soviet-Americari relations also deteriorate and possibly the Americans will not leave the mujaheddin alone.
 * A British specialist who writes for the British newspaper, Independent, in a comment on the present Soviet changes has said, the return of Karmal to Kabul indicates that extremist Russian elements who have now grabbed the power in Moscow, are also trying to weaken Najib.
 * A news item reaching the Political and Press Office of the Kausar from Kabul via Dubai says that high-ranking officials, including members of the Cabinet, Prime Minister and Dr. Najib are unable to evaluate and cope with the changes now taking place in the Soviet Union. However, Kabul regime officials who are anxious to see an end to the 13-year old war in Afghanistan., are concerned about these changes. *
*  Dr. Besmillah Sahaf, former Kabul regime envoy to the UN and Governor of Kabul Province, now living in the Soviet Union in an interview with the BBC has said that the Soviet coup will have negative impact on Afghanistan. It is possible that bloodshed will be prolonged and a solution become
 difficult. The’ possibility that had emerged for achieving peace may diminish or, at least, suspend.
      Olivier Roy, French specialist on Afghanistan, says one should express regret and concern about the changes now taking place in Moscow and the rejoice of a number of resistance leaders is the product of their short--mindedness and their inability to properly analyse the events because, in his view, a number of mujaheddin leaders are happy that it is possible that with the change in Soviet leadership American assistance for the resistance movement wi],L continue for a short time. However, for a long term I think these changes will not be good news for anybody. -
      The Kabul regime leader Najib in a press interview said no agreement, protocol and talks have been ’ held between the Russians and Commander Ahmad Shah Masood.
                                               24
      Mohammad Daoud Panshiri, President of Government Affairs, and a brother of top ranking communist official Des-tagir Panjshiri, while speaking on the human rights conditions in areas under the control of Kabul regime, in an interview with a free Kabul newspaper has said, we are asking the judiciary and the office of the Attorny General how many of the thousands of people accused on political grounds after the April 1978 coup have been given the opportunity to hire lawyers to defend themselves. He said only under exceptional cases the government has allowed political prisoerns to hire lawyers.
 J Prince Turkey, Minister of Security and Information of Saudi Arabia, has visited Islamabad for talks on the Afghanistan issue. It is clear that the
175
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
   Saudi Arabia will try to talk about the participation of Saudi Arabia in between Pakistan Iran and the mujaheddin and convey Saudi views and decision to the mujaheddin in this regard.
   NEWS ITEMS:  Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor
   in relation with . the changed in the Soviet Union has said America and the Soviets both do not wish the Najib hireling regime's fall and replaced by an. Islamic mujaheddin government in Afghanistan and regretfully the US and the Soviet Union both are exploiting the prevailing differences in the mujaheddin ranks and those who are creating difficulties for the mujaheddin actually aim at pleasing Russia. He praised the tripartite, mujaheddin, Pakistan, and Jran talks in Tehran and said "we had earlier too considered these talks in the interest of the mujaheddin and now also say that the talks are very 'useful for the Afghanistan jehad".
                                                31
   NEWS ITEM:   The second session of the
   tripartite     talks    between     the
   mujaheddin, Iran and Pakistan were held 28-29 August in. the presence of 21 mujaheddin leaders and members of mujaheddin delegation in Pakistan and four members of HWIA. The President and the Foreign Minister of Iran as well as Pakistani's      Secretary      General
   for Foreign Affairs were also present. In this meeting Iranian Foreign Minister Dr. Velayati said, I consider it my duty to thank the mujaheddin for their courageous moves which ' take their roots from the jehad and Islam add causecl so many changes in the region. Akram Zaki Pakistan's,Secretary General for Foreign Affairs said, after i the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, regretfully the Kabul regin\e remained in power and still the aspiration of the people of Afghanistan
 have not been fulfilled.
     In Bajaur area of Pakistan it has been announced that Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman, leader of the Dawat-ul-Quran-wal-Sunna, was martyred by an Arab terrorist 30 August. Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman, known as a Salafi leader, had found recently an Islamic government in the Kunar province and had established a social and political organization and the move was met by some political circle with suspicion and in this connection strong disputes took place between Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman and forces of HIA led by Engineer Hekmat-(yar. He was assassinated at a time when forces of HIA had regained the centers occupied by the Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman mujaheddin and efforts were in progress in the region for restoring peace.
     The leader of the hireling regime, Najib,in his first interview after the failed coup in the Soviet Union has expressed confidence that Moscow will continue its support for his regime and will cpntin ie to send food and arms to Afghanistan. He has said, agreements already signed between the Soviet Union and his government remain intact.
   SEPTEMBER
               4
 NEWS ITEM: The Saudi authorities have
 expressed annoyance in a function held at the office of Endowment in Riyadh at the killing of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman. He was a martyr and those who delivered speeches urged the Arab people to.refrain from sending any kind of assistance to the mujaheddin until
 the situation became clear.
     *
     Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's envoy for Afghanistan, is going to Kabul. A Kabul regime spokesman says that talks between the regime officials and the UN envoy will be held in continuation of previous negotiations
176
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991      AFGHANJIIIAO                   VOL. 4 NO.4
 and there has been no change in the policies of the Soviet Union over the issue of Afghanistan.
      Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani in regard to the second tripartite meeting among the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran held in Tehran has said, in the Tehran meeting while taking into consideration the related events in the Soviet Union, readiness was expressed for holding direct talks between the mujaheddin and Moscow. The meeting also decided that delegations should be sent to the General Assembly of the United Nations and the OIC meeting in Dakar, the capital of .Senegal to intimate world leaders about the mujaheddin position in regard to Afghanistan issue.
 - Diplomates in Kabul say that Kabul has asked for urgent help from India, Bulgaria and Turkey because Moscow has expressed a cool attitude for providing
                7
 essential goods for Kabul during the difficult winter ahead.
 * The Kabul regime leader, Najib, in a seminar of judges and lawyers has admitted that what he called the extremist elements opposing his regime have succeeded to convince a large number of youth to help realize their objectives. Najib in his speech complained about the lack of a proper place for keeping and educating the juvinile delinquents and spoke about the torture and beatings which such children were subjected to while in detention and urged the judges and the office of Attoney General to take measures and stop the tortures and beating of the children.
      The Bombay Times in an editorial on the tripartite mujaheddin, Iran and Pakistan conference has said, although a number of fundamentalist forces of the mujaheddin were not present in the meeting and political observers were of the opinion that these meetings will
 -result in fulfilling the general aspirations' of nationalist Islamic forces within the ranks-., of the resistance, it is being observed that the decisions and agreements reached at
                                                                                                     I
 the meetings meet mostly the demands of fundamentalist Muslims.
                                                                                                     J
      Mawlawi Sami-Ullah, the new leader of Jamaat Dawah-al-Quran-wal-Sunna, in his first press conference 24 August said:  Internal and external elements
 were involved in Jamil-ur-Rahman's assassination and investigation is going on to find the acutal hand behind this crime and when these investigations are over the facts will be made public. He said, after the liberation of the Kunar province when Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman established a Shariat Office undr the name of Islamic Emirate and promulgated Islamic Shariat in the region, some elements who accused Jamil-ur-Rahman of having a lust for power felt danger that if such system is established in other liberated areas, no plot will succeed to undo' this great Quranic revolution. He said the enemy, by choosing an Arab to carry the assassination, had four objectives in mind:  (1) For an Arab it was easier
 to have access to Jamil-ur-Rahman, (2) in this way it will be difficult to pinpoint the real plotters, (3) the enemy wanted to separate the Arabs from the Afghanistan jehad, (4) inculcation of animosity with the Arabs will result in terminating assistance to the Jamaat-e-Dawah-al-Quran-wal Sunna. He said, the Arabs have offered great services to the Afghan jehad and we have had no doubt about the jehad of our Arab brothers neither in the beginning nor at present.
                                                   7
 NEWS ITEM:   The London newspaper The
 Daily Telegraph says# Western diplomats , in Islamabad say the US and Soviet Union have agreed, to allow Najib continue in office until an appropriate »
177
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
rnwmm
political alternative is worked oat for Afghanistan. At the same time, the mujaheddin groups and other political circles have begun efforts for filling the gap expected to be created after the fall of the Kabul regime. A big Shoora of the ulama and commanders, who described themselves independent, from mujaheddin groups are trying to bring closer the jehad forces. Also a group of commandars are preparing for attack on the Gardaiz city in Paktia and some parties and groups are preferring an attack on Kabul and are coordinating their forces for this purpose.
      Observers believe that mujaheddin are of the opinion that conditions are favorable for Najib than any time before for toppling so that they may be \ able to establish their own government in his place.
 " Qazi ; Mohammad Amin Weqad in answer to a question by a Pakistani journalist has said none of the parties and groups by itself will be able to establish a stable regime in Afghanistan. In regard to mujaheddin attack on Kabul, he said that even at present the mujaheddin were holding fast their trenches but the fact that despite repeated requests by the HIA (Hekmatyar) other parties are not offering heip, there are ~ other reasons to it. Engineer Helal, Chairman of the Political Committee of HIA, in a press conference has said je-hadic organizations should have a joint alternative for the establishment of an interim administration with the fall of the Kabul regime. However, if the jehadic organizations failed to bring about such administration the Hi A will adopt an appropriate measure in this connection.
      Sayyed Khalilullah Hashemian, on behalf of a number of Afghans living in .the United States, in a letter addressed to Soviet leader Gorbachev and pub-
 lished in the Aaina-e-Afghanistan Journal has said, the people, of Afghanistan do not have good thoughts from communism and ,the communists of their northern borders and hope that the noncommunist Russians will hereafter undertake emergency measures for reconstructing damages inflicted in Af-ghanistan (by the Russians and their puppets).
                  11
      The President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan has paid a visit to Iran where he has held talks about the Afghanistan issue. His talks with the Iranian leadership on the Afghanistan issue are important because he has the practical responsibility for planning the Pakistani government policies towards Afghanistan and. to a large extent' the Pakistan. army„ which helps the Afghan mujaheddin ,is also under the considerable influence of the President.
 " After a visit by an eight member Russian parliamentary delegation to Kabul-, Najib in an extraordinary session of the Central Council of the Watan Party has said, after the failure of the coup in Soviet Russia, the atmosphere_ for finding a political solution to Afghanistan problem has become conducive more than ever before. Najib accused the mujaheddin for wanting to continue the war. Because, according to Najib, when the coup was staged in the Soviet Union, some elements whom he called "extremists", in Peshawar welcomed the coup and said that it will provide for the continuation of war.
 * Diplomatic sources in Kabul say that the Kabul regime is under political, military and economic pressure ever than before and the regime, r in order to keep up the moraleof its officials, has resorted to wide ranging measures.
178
JULY-SEPTEMRER, 1991         HlRIlflHJ[HflD             VOL. 4  NO.4
 NEWS ITEM: In regard to a visit by the
 UN Secretary General to Iran £t says,
 observers says despite the fact that
 Iran and Pakistan have described the
                            %
 Secretary General's plan for the solution of the Afghanistan issue as a positive step, they have their own particular points of view about solving the issue and the formation of a new government in Afghanistan some of which are different from the points contained in the'five-point plan of the UN Secretary General.
      Dr.Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, in his meeting with the UN Secretary General has said the Islamic Republic of Iran considered the Secretary General plan for the solution of the Afghanistan issue a good framework as "we believe this plan will help solve the Afghanistan issue with other complimentary points"
      A Palestanian diplomat has told the AFP in Kabul that after the recent changes in the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime officials are feeling very nervous. He says, officials of the Foreign Ministry are contacting foreign embassies more than often. Although with each round of arrests of army officers danger of a coup are reduced, the taking place of another coup is not ruled out.
                   14
 NEWS ITEM:     Professor Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Murtazavi had a meeting with the UN Secretary General in Tehran. Mujaddedi has told the UN Chief that holding talks with Najib and his regime and forming an interim (government with the participation of Najib is unacceptable to thes mujaheddin. Howeyer, he did not rule out talks with neutral or' non-communist elements in Kabul whom he-called neutral "Muslims".
      On the other hand, Gailani consi-
 ders the UN plan as the only alternative for solving the Afghanistan issue politically and he is sure that the plan'will be implemented.
      Zaher Shah, the former Afghan Monarch, has considered the ban of arms by the Soviet Union and the United States to the warring parties in Afghanistan a positive step towards the realization of the objectives of peace and security in Afghanistan, but has said that this was not enough. He said the ban would not be the main factor for procuring peace in Afghanistan and the main objective was to achieve fair and just results from the 13 years of the jehad of the Afghan people.
      Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, the former Afghan Prime Minister,said the ban was a welcome step for ending hostility and bringing about peace in Afghanistan and I strongly welcome it.
      "Professor Rabbani, leader of the JIA said," such resolution will have no beat ohthe mujaheddin positions because in practice sending of arms was termi-. nated to the mujaheddin long ago". Rabbani also spoke about the toppling of Kabul regime through a coup. He said that his organization was not involved in any coup and action against the Kabul regime should be jointly adopted by all mujaheddin.
      Engineer Helal, a high-ranking official of the HIA in interview with the BBC has said, "before also we were faced with the So-cailed negative symmetry. If it is going to be truly implemented we agree, with it". He said, "ifthe Kabul regime is toppled without war in a bloodless coup, no military operation will be staged against that regime, otherwise the resolution concerning military operation remains intact".
                                                                   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi considered
 179
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 the ban in the interest of Islamic fundamentalist groups because, as he put it, pome groups will provide them with money to purchase arms from open market.
    Najib and his regime have welcomed the Soviet-American decision and urged both sides of the dispute to avail themselves of the opportunity for holding general, elections.
    On the other hand Prof. Mohammad Asghar, President of the National Salvation Society in Kabul, which is a neutral political body, has considered the step as positive but has said it was not enough. Asghar, who supports the return of Zaher Shah and establishment of a neutral government, has added that the three coming months were crucial from the military point of view because, according to him, "some groups are trying to stage intense military operations on Kabul and this will entail great number of killing and bloodshed". He urged the UN Secretary General to exert greater efforts for. securing peace in Afghanistan.
 Kausar - II
                                JUNE
                                   29
 NEWS ITEMS: According to reports, 29
 June, the Herat mujaheddin repulsed a fresh offensive of the atheist Kabul regime forces, supported by Soviet advisors, in Zendajan district killing dozens of the communist regime soldiers and militia and destroying five transport'vehicles.
 - Mujaheddin sources report from Kabul, that recently the military tank carrying general Azeem Zurmati, one of; Senior officers of the Communist Khalq
 faction, hit a landmine in Logar province causing injuries to him. The incident occurred while he was busy visiting the regime military center in Tangi Waghjan.
 - There are signs of preparations for a military revolt in Kabul by Babrak Karmal's supporters. Reliable sources from Kabul report that due to Najib's unsuccessful policy, a number of regime generals, who are old-timers of Karmal, intend to replace Najib by installing Karmal in power.
                                      JULY
                                           6
 NEWS ITEMS: US government has opposed
 the admission of six HIA students to the University of Nebraska. Out of 21 Afghan students, six of them belonging to HIA, had obtained the best grades and were qualified for admission to the University. But, owing to decisive stance of HIA leader in Gulf War and its condemnation of the US military presence in the holy Muslim lands as well as its stand against the US anti-Muslim intrigues particularly in regard to the jehad in Afghanistan, the US had taken such a step.
 - During a face to face battle with an armed division of Kabul regime in the outskirts of Maidan Shar, Wardak, the mujaheddin killed more than 100 of regime military personnel, captured another 50. Fifteen tanks were also destroyed. In the battle five mujaheddin were martyred and 14 wounded. The battle is still raging fiercely in the area.
 - Barat Mohammad Sauda, a well-known Badakhshan poet, has died of heart attack 2 July. In 1979 after the capture of Jurm district he was elected by mujaheddin as district mayor and in the same year he migrated to Pakistan.
180
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991       AIGHAN JIHAO - ■             VOL. 4  N0.4
 He was serving in the jehad cultural field Until his death.
                                               13
 NEWS ITEMS:  Diplomatic sources have
 observed that the Kabul communist regime is encouraging the Indian government to utilize her airforce against Kashmir and Pakistan.' With strained political conditions in Pakistan, the Kabul Communist regime wants to take advantage, in relation to the Afghanistan problem. Therefore, with the cooperation of the Indian intelligence, it has initiated extensive intelligence and terrorist activities against Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin.
 - In a press conference, organized in Kabul, Najmuddin Kaweyani deputy of. the puppet Najib,      observed the   Kabul
 regime has so far established contacts, with representatives Of some- Peshawar based  organizations. He, however,
 declined■to elaborate and in accordance with puppet regime commitment withheld the names of those he had met, saying that he himself was present in several: meetings. He has made this statement at a time when both the Peshawar and Iran   based      organizations    have
 unanimously declared their refusal to hold talks with Najib or to give' any place in the transitional government.
                                              20
 NEWS ITEMS:  Pakistan and Iran have
 intensified their efforts towards a political settlement of the Afghan problem and want to bring an end to the 10 year old issue as soon as possible.
 A Pakistan Foreign Office spokesman said,  "Pakistan    will . hold serious
 discussion in regard to the Afghanistan problem with Ali Akbar Velayati, Iranian Foreign Minister, who is-scheduled to pay a 3-day visit to , Islamabad in the near future. He added that with the participation of Iran and
 Pakistan as well as the Afghan mujaheddin leaders conferences will soon be convened in Pakistan and Iran to hold serious discussion on the subject.
 r, Karmal, a former Russian puppet in {Kabul, in a recent press conference with Reuter upon arrival in Kabul said that he was against the Soviet •invasion of Afghanistan but being in the midst of a pre-culminated process he tendered his resignation to--±he party on several occasions which was rejected. Thus he was forced to give in to this depravity and meanness. Karmal has forgotten his crafty manner of responding to foreign correspondents, barely a few days after assuming power which was devoid of all norms of diplomatic decency.
                                   AUGUST
                                            3
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Rabbani,leader of JIA, left for Turkey 1 August to attend the OIC ministerial conference. This is the second time that the Afghan mujaheddin delegation officially attends the conference.
 - Saudi Arabia and Egypt have agreed that as a sign of cooperation and close
 relations with Pakistan, they will
         I
 defend the Afghan mujaheddin ppsition against the communist Kabul regime decisively in the 20th OIC conference.
 - In a rocket attack on the atheist regime military installations in Bagram Airfield, the mujaheddin have destroyed an arms depot and several .military equipment of the regime.
 - A jet aircraft of the Kabul atheist regime while bombing the mujaheddin positions in the Sarobi district of Kabul province, was shot down by thte mujaheddin anti-aircraft guns. . The
181
 JULY-SEPTEMBERr 1991
 mujaheddin sources claim that the aircraft crashed in the Darunta area.
 - Following the successful mujaheddin operations an army depot of the Kabul puppet regime containing SCUD and other types of missiles has been destroyed in Kabul Dar-ul- Aman area.
                                                6
 NEWS ITEMS: All round operations of the mujaheddin will statt soon. During the 12 year jehad operations 3,500 aircraft and 26,000 tanks and military transport vehicles of the puppet regime have been destroyed. In the course of a joint press conference, party and military representatives of mujaheddin organization explained the achievements of jehad and in response to the queries of foreign correspondents provided them with further information. In this press conference which was held 21 July military representatives of mujaheddin parties declared that the mujaheddin all out operations will soon begin throughout Afghanistan.         '
 - The Afghan mujaheddin .delegate will attend the OIC conferehce.Ibrahim Bakr, deputy Secretary General of OIC arrived in Peshawar last week and held talks 21 and 23 July with mujaheddin leaders regarding the participation of the mujaheddin in this conference* Rumors that OIC will invite the Kabul regime to the conference was described as baseless by the OIC offcial.
 - A conference of the foreign ministers of Iran, Pakistan and mujaheddin representatives is scheduled for 28 July in Islamabad in which discussions on the current situation in Afghanistan and ways of finding a political solution to the problem will be held. The majority of the mujaheddin leaders are not optimistic about it. Mawlawi Khales, the leader of HIA, in connection with this conference has said in
 an interview that the Islamic Republic.
       ♦ ‘ ✓ of Iran, on the one hand supported
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 the Tehran based groups, and on the other hand her claims of unity among jehad forces were contradictory to each other. He has accused Iran of flaring up the religious extremism and has described the present time as a period of tests. He added that behind this conference there were concealed hands and the west tried to bring them to the stage in the name of mujaheddin saying this was due to mujaheddin incompetence. Similarly Hujjat-ul-Islam Javed, in an interview, pointing to the objectives of Islamabad said, that the aim.of the conference was apparently to find a way to the solution of the Afghanistan issue. Referring to relations between Islamic Republic of Iran and the Kabul regime he said let us hope that these remained ineffective adding that it was up to the Afghans which course to take.
                 10
 NEWS ITEMS:  Mahboobullah, Koshani . an
 assistant Najib, who had been assigned to take change of government militia-force in northern Afghanistan, has left the area for Kabul after impressive mujaheddin victories. In an interview with newsmen, he has said that the mujaheddin victories were the result of increasing disputes and differences among members of Watain Party. He accused his government for corruption and referred to the growing public discontent and added that now the mujaheddin, after complete victories in the country-side of Badakhshan, are at Faizabad gates. Koshani, leader of the SAZA faction who had earlier joined a coalition with the Kabul government, added that the government, contrary to its promises. So far has completely ignored the rights of other political factions..
 * Joint mujaheddin operations have been undertaken on military establishments in Jalalabad and the mujaheddin are now bringing their siege closer on
182
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991         HlullHHtllnlUl             VOL. 4  NO.4
 the city. The mujaheddiri have also launched heavy attacks on atheist regime military positions in the Surkhakan region, Laghman, as a result of which tens of military personnel and militia have been killed and heavy damages inflicted to their bases. During the course of these attacks more than 100 armed militia of the atheist regime in order to save themselves from the mujaheddin attacks threw themselves into Kabul River and a large number of them were drowned and killed-.
      The mujaheddin also exploded an arms depot of the Kabul regime at Darunta near Jalalabad inflicting heavy damages to the Kabul regime forces. Also they conquered 5 August the Surkhakan Bridge and the strategic base of Mashaali .on Sarobi-Jalalabad Highway and the- Kabul regime forces fled in the direction' of Darunta. With the conquering of these areas now the mujaheddin have complete control of the Sarobi-Jalalabad Highway for 40 kms and have now started their raids and attacks towards Darunta where the 9th Division  of   the atheist   regime  is
 stationed.
                   15
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Kabul puppet regime
 which , is crying about democracy and freedom of political parties has banned the publication of. th.e so-called Azadi daily newspaper in Kabul accusing it of publishing anti-government items and has arrested   its editor.   Mujaheddin
 sources report from Kabul that the Azadi newspaper, which was published twice in Kabul, and from time-to-time carried   critical items against    the
 deceitful policies of the hireling regime,   in   its latest    issue  had
 published excerpts from a speech by Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, and had criticized the policy of the atheist regime. The puppet regime which on the surface claims to be democratic and
 tolerant of political activities in Kabul, is not able to accept critical* publication against its policies by free publications.
 * A Kabul regime helicopter was shot down 10 August in the northern sector of Gardaiz city by the mujaheddin. All its crew were killed*
             30
 NEWS ITEMS: ■ A prominent commander of the Kabul atheist regime who had fled-inside Russia during the capture of Eshkashero, Badakhshan,with his militia was. handed-over to the mujaheddin by Russian military authorities last week. Mujaheddin sources from Badakhshan say that the Russian side handed-over the militia commander and his men to the mujaheddin - on the border line . The report adds that he was handed-over to the mujaheddin on the basis of talks held between the two sides for sometime .
 * A Kabul regime plane was shot down by. mujaheddin anti-aircraft guns in Qreshk, Helmand, 17 August.
 ■* The mujaheddin shot down a Kabul' regime plane 16 August which was engaged in bombing areas,, in the liberated Jurm district, Badakhshan.
    SEPTEMBER
                                       7
 NEWS ITEM: Engineer Helal, the Chairman of the Political.. .Committee of HIA in a press conference ‘5- September said that a foreign country was involved in the assassination of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman. • He accused Iran in this connection adding that Iran wanted to achieve its own interests in Afghanistan by resorting to terrorist activities. It has had the names of three top jehad figures at the top of its
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 list for assassination. Sheikh Abdallah Izam and Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman were ■ two of them and Hekmatyar was the third one in their list. This has been supported by the Kayhan daily, the official publicity ogran of the Iranian government, 5 September urging the assassination of Hekmatyar and this is the best witness in this connection.
                                               14
 NEWS ITEM:   Jehad  Commanders of Kabul
 province have urged the Kabul communist regime to terminate its illegal rule in Kabul without resorting to further fighting and bloodshed and handover itself to the mujaheddin. In a statement issued by the Council it has been said, taking in view toppling of communist regimes in-the Soviet Union and East Europe, the Kabul communist regime should handover the power to the people of Afghanistan without resorting to further war and bloodshed and thus reduce from the burdon of sins which it has committed against the people of Afghanistan.
      News reaching from Kabul say that sharp differences have emerged between Najib president of the hireling regime and Babrak Karmal, leader of the Par-chain faction, both sides are trying to have the power at its monopoly*
      According to another news item, in the process of these differences, military . pilots of the atheist regime in Kabul- Airport have staged strike and in leaflets they have urged the people of Kabul to stage a general uprising against the communist Kabul regime. The leaflets have urged the people, to put an end to communist rein in Afghanistan very soon.
      Professor Rabbani leader, of JIA, in an interview has said, talks by the mujaheddin delegations with the UN Secretary General are being held in
 continuation of agreements reached at the Tehran tripartite conference. He said, the aim of these talks is to get acquainted with the UN position vis-a-vis the Aghanistan issue. He added, only the Afghan mujaheddin have the right to workout an alternative for solving the Afghanistan issue or to reject any alternatives.
                      Khurshed-e- Jehad
                              JULY
                                  4
 REPORT: The Pakistan Foreign Office
 has presented a proposal based on the creation of a Commission comprising all the Afghan resistance groups based in Peshawar and ‘Iran. So far the Afghans have refused to discuss the proposal. Resistance sources have indicated that even Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a favorite of Islamabad, is not reconciled with the proposal. He does not ‘want to join-an alliance with which he was at war until recently. The're are sharp differences between Hekmatyar and Ahmad Shah Masood. Identical differences with the commanders of Kunar province also exist which have resulted in bloody clashes. The so-called mujaheddin moderate groups like Pir Gailani and Professor Rabbani also seem to be unhappy with the proposal. Some of the mujaheddin groups are afraid that a broad based consensus might lead to peace talks with the Kabul regime. The entire resistance forces are strongly against any role for Najib in the future government of Afghanistan. But now the US and USSR both are favoring the inclusion of Najib in the.' future government. Last week there did exist an only hope for the success of Pakistan plan and. that was when • an Iran based mission came to Islamabad to talk with Pakistan-based mujaheddin and Pakistan government, but all the hopes were shattered when the .mission
184
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     flffilMN JlNIlfl
 rejected the Pakistan plan. Hujjat-ul-Islam Murtazavi, the spokesman of the mission told journalists that unless all the hurdles were removed they would not participate in the talks. The Peshawar-based mujaheddin have offered them three seats while they are asking for at least five seats.
     A large number of political prisoners released recently from Pul-e-Charkhi jail have condemned the current talks with former diplomats regarding the political settlement of the Afghanistan problem. In a gathering of about 200 prisoners, the speakers,, who claimed to represent thousands of political prisoners, described the current diplomatic efforts as a plot against jehad and called for the trial of ex-diplomats in an Islamic Court. The political prisoners assured the jehad prisoners of their unwavering support and emphasized the need for continuation of the jehad 'until final victory. At the conclusion of the meeting, in their resolution they called upon the ex-diplomats to desist from plotting against jehad. They vowed that those who bargain on the blood of the Afghans will be severely punished. They declared that the fruits of jehad shall be protected at any cost.
                                              19
 NEWS ITEMS: The Pakistani newspaper The NEWS reports, an Afghan born American who serves under an American sponsored program for the Afghan refugees was injured by an assailant 13 August.
      Dr. Moqeem Rahmanzai was assailed by unknown persons when he was driving from home to his office. According to the reports, an unknown person fired on Rahmanzai from a pick-up vehicle hitting him on his arms. He was rushed to the ICRC hospital. Rahmanzai, 45, is the deputy chief of the educational team of the University of Nebraska in
                                                             VOL. 4 NO.4
 Peshawar. He is from Logar province.
    Ahmad Shah Masood has held talks with a Russian delegation in Eshkashem. Issues related to border security were discussed and matters related to other political and military affairs were not brought up. Following the mujaheddin victories led by Ahmad Shah Masood and conquering of districts bordering Russia, Mowcow, fearing Masood's political and cultural contacts with Muslims living under Soviet colonialism had sent a three man delegation to Eshkashem. The Russians have agreed to transfer their posts, which so far were located on this side of the Eshkashem River and manned by Soviets, to the other side of the border. Also they agreed to officially hold talks on the border disputes between the two sides.
      Mahaz
                              JUNE
                                 29
 ARTICLE: "UN Secretary General's latest proposal for settlement of Afghanistan ’ issue" Islam Safi, while discussing the UN role in Afghanistan writes, undoubtedly de Cuellar's latest proposal carries some positive aspects directed  towards realism, and
 demonstrates legal objectives of our •Muslim nation. Nevertheless some of its sections need to be reconsidered and explained.
    "We are not against political solution of the Afghan problem. We do not condemn the UN decisions and basic objectives. We do not reject peace in our beloved homeland but we cannot accept such peace and political solution which would waste the fruits of our jehad or be contrary to our
185
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991       • MGIIAN 'J[HAD              VOL-  4 NO-4
religious and Islamic values. If the present UN plan for peace is drawn in such a manner so as it calls for a coalition of mujaheddin and Kabul government or be directed towards the recognition of the so-called 'Hezb-e-Watan', then such a solution is unacceptable to the mujaheddin and the valiant Afghan nation, and can never be endprsed because it contributes to the Continuity of the Kabul puppet, regime-which, on the one hand has a long standing record of enmity with Islam and mujaheddin and, on the other, these are the very people who sacrificed the territorial integrity of our ancient land for a. few rubels and a lust for power and the fulfilment of their masters desires. If political solution of the problem involves the denial of political and military power to Najib and his replacement by another elected person during the interim period, whose sole objectives are defense of Islam and geographical boundaries of the country, in that case the latest UN proposal will serve the purpose.
                                      JULY
EDITORIAL: "Historical moments, wri-
ter's obligations and responsibilities" Enumerating the obligations of a jehad writer, he is advised not to confine himself to the organizational narrow and limited framework but to write according to the aspirations of the entire nation. "A writer loyal to jehad and the homeland, during these sensitive historical moments, has to, more than ever, evaluate the time factor, consider the sanctity of jehad, lead the way to the lofty ideals and consider the chastity of his profession as writer."
EDITORIAL:  "Thirteen years of jehad
and thirteen years of sacrifice," by Gharwal. "At the very outset of jehad we had decided that either we shall
  enforce Islamic order in our beloved country or sacrifice our life and property in achieving this lofty target. In order to have relieved our Muslim and mujahed nation the confrontation of repeated trials and tribulations, we declare in unequivocal terms that the communist puppets do not
  have any rightful share in the future political set-up of our country" .
                       SEPTEMBER
                                  4
     The Kabul regime aircraft bombarded 15 and 17 August different parts of Takhar province killing 220 inhabitants of these areas and injuring a large number as well.
     The Ghazni mujaheddin in a’success-ful operation 13 August demolished two enemy posts and set ablaze two tanks. Also mujaheddin conquered four government posts in the Char Asyab region of Kabul province 17 August.
                        Masooliat-e-Zan-e-Musa\man
                        JUNE JULY
  REPORT: The obituary and glorification
  ceremony of the four martyrs of the Kabul Provincial Council of HIA who were martyred recently in the Maidan Province battle was held 6 July in Sarnia School in a befitting manner. Addressing the assembly, incharge of Zainab Council, Miss Zainab,spoke about the sacred mission of the martyr and furthermore, touching the topic of the responsibilities of our country's women in the wake of the revolution, she said from time- immemorial our women, whether in the battlefield with the aliens or inside the country, have stood shoulder to ' shoulder with men and their effective role in social and economic
186
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 fields of the country, cannot be over emphasized. Presently their contribution towards the realization of the lofty objectives of revolution and their final victory is highly appreciable and we are sure that in tomorrow's reconstruction of the country too they will have their share.
              JULY
                14
 REPORT:   Professor Rabbani,  addressing
 the Eid congregation said, "for the sake of the establishment of an Islamic government, JIA is ready for all kinds of sacrifices provided the.past bitter experiences are not .repeated. Our nation also passed the Abraham crossroads to a certain extent and became wanderers. How many of its children, Abraham-like, waded into the fire of Namroodian Communists? Although as individuals . they gave their lives in the way of Allah, and had there been no such sacrifices,' Afghanistan would not have existed today. The first lesson to learn, for all times, from the way of Abraham is never to lose hope and succumb to misfortune and adversity. Abraham, never for a single moment in his life, lost hope but carried on the mission that God had ordered* him to accomplish and braving all the difficulties, he went ahead. Whatever genuine and revolutionary work, which is being done at God’s will, shall be permanent, everlasting and Constant". He went on to say that a grand jehad council should be formed out of the powerful and prominent parties. The council will be part of the supreme leadership comprising the original founder parties of the revolution from the very outset till the final stage of
 the establishment of an Islamic state, and will supervise the revolution. One person from each party, big or small, can be member to this council.
        31
 EDITORIAL:  "UN plan and the positions
 of various sides." It is imperative for the mujaheddin to find a common ground vis-a-vis the political and military problems they are facing so that they can confront the current developments effectively. All their efforts must be directed towards creating understanding and pragmatic cooperation in the political and military fields among themjselves.
      The singular common point among all the parties of mujaheddin is opposition to the communist regime. Opposition to the regime is quite justified which has to be maintained as the basic point of political and military activities. But as can be seen, there are extremism and retrogression in the policy of various mujaheddin factions in regard to the attainment of the objectives.* This has to be rectified. There are some who react negatively to any step planned at international levels and describe them as intrigues against jehad. On the contrary there are others who even ignore the military situation in the country and the armed confrontation against the regime and are only supporting the so-called international initiatives, calling them all the more invaluable. • Similarly competing with each other for political privileges is another problem in the way of establishing proximity among the jehad organizations. Negation of every political process and attacking each peaceful initiative for the sake of the resolution of the problem and the usage of inciting remarks do not only fall in line with the policies but antagonize a great number with regard to the legitimate issues of a nation
187
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     HlUllHNlnllll                  VOL. 4  NO.4
 which has suffered more than a decade. Global support of non-support does not affect the righteousness of our cause but greatly affect the practical outcome of this struggle. International support of the Afghanistan case is imperative for the speedy success of the mujaheddin, provision of aid to millions of refugees and the postwar reconstruction. Indifference of any kind in this respect benefits the communist regime. The Afghan problem is one of the world's popular cases which, in addition to governments, has. many other supporters as well. To drag this well-known case into political isolation is not only unreasonable but also dangerous. Some of mujaheddin leaders, in taking positions, act like heads of students organizations or very small parties against the governments, whereas the mujaheddin have passed that, stage. A war is raging in the country and the fate of millions of human, beings and the peace of the region depend on the outcome of the war. Therefore, our leaders, while taking positions, must act sagaciously and cautiously more than any other leader.
      Our remarks here do riot compromise the jehad principled positions or belittling oneself and siding with communism. While we ought to stick to1 our principled stand we should also consider the new condition so that no finger can be raised against the logic of mujaheddin's conduct. A group of mujaheddin who had supported the allies in the Gulf war intends to use the good will, created, in their favor, to their political advantage and organize a fresh alliance but dependence on foreign factor and ignoring the military forces of the parties is a blunder committed by this faction. Under such conditions another element .hopeful of international support steps into the political arena and that is the ex-King in search of performing a political role.
                                                                     Another problem is the factions'
 demand for privileges from each otner at this fateful juncture. The question pertaining to the number of seats in the singular mujaheddin organization for the Iran based Shia groups has assumed the shape of a long standing problem and the basic difficulty of the parties, as explained by Professor Rabbani, is that they consider all the present political arrangements as permanent ones; whereas each political measure taken under the prevalent conditions must • be related to the particular circumstances. If more attention is paid to practical plans the advantage will be immense; because shuttling of the delegation between Peshawar and Tehran without reaching an agreement is not ' happy tidings. Mujaheddin must bring forth equitable balance in their political and military activities under the existing sensitive circumstances. Conducts should respond to the current needs. Negation of political process or ignoring the military activities both are equally dangerous. Whereas foreign factoirs cannot be overlooked at the same time it should not be overestimated. Total
                                        i
 unity among mujaheddin is the hall mark to every action since presently Afghanistan is in dire need of solidarity more than ever before. For the sake of attracting foreign aid the bridges of understanding, among the mujaheddin should not be demolished and mujaheddin be divided under different titles. Practical issues ought to be studied. carefully and the present political arrangements be taken as temporary. An atmosphere may be created wherein the parties may not feel concerned about the future and the tribes do not feel victimized. To create such an environment calls for self-sacrifice from all the forces. Considering the objective mentioned the adoption of such a policy is not an easy job, because our society in addition to its political texture has a social texture as well and adoption of a , wrong policy may have far
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991    MGIMN J[HilO            VOL- 4 NO.4
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmmmmmmm
reaching .dangerous consequences. But what matters is the creation of unity among units and maintenance of national solidarity. JIA is ready to act as a bridge 'among    the mujaheddin
organizations so that this noble and Islamic cause is fulfilled.
   SEPTEMBER
                                      It
REPORT: Professor Rabbani,. leader of
the JIA, after returning from the Tehran tripartite conference, in a press conference said, the muijaheddin should hold talks with the Russians in relation to their country so that they may be able to once again declare their rightful position and emphasize it.
   In regard to the Tehran talks, he said, the aim of such gatherings is not ment to bring about a change in our strategy but rather it is to signify the joint mujaheddin position and the coordination of the policies of the two host countries in regard to the Afghanistan issue.
    He said, the mujaheddin have jointly announced that in regard to adopting decisions about the solution of the Afghanistan problem and formation of the future government, the Kabul puppet regime will not be a party in any talks.
                                                Rabbani made the remarks in a press conference held 2 September in
 NEWS ITEMS: The second extensive enemy.
 onslaught in Khanabad district, Kunduz, was repulsed 27 June. This victory is the outcome of unprecedented unity and harmony among the mujaheddin.
 -  Samad (Pacha), leader of the Kabul puppet regime militia, following the victory of Khwaja Ghar, wanted to flee to the Soviet Union through Ai Khanum but was captured by the mujaheddin.
    In a message on the occasion of Eid-ul-Adha,     Engineer      Hekmatyar
 observed, "those who are serving the aliens ought to be dealt with like Najib and his companions".
 -  Quoting a reliable source, MIDIA reports that in the wake of Na jib's policy failure, the Russians were considering his replacement. Babrak Karmal and five generals from the puppet regime forces are possible ’ options.
     Regarding talks, between Zaher Shah's representatives with the Pakistan government and some mujaheddin organizations for a political solution, through a coalition government, another delegation headed by Sardar Abdul Wali, son-in-law of the ex-King, is scheduled to visit Pakistan next morith.
 -  Needless to say that the ex-King is responsible for the current situation but in the light of the existing proceedings who else are to be questioned?"
 ARTICLE: Rasekh:"The only basic factors contributing to the return of the ex-King are inter-party conflicts and differences which are eating into the vitals of our jehad body like a chronic malady. Had the entire jehad forces of the country acted without dealing through political groupings, we would have never suffered such a day"-
 189
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991             MANJH                   VOL. 4 NO.4
 NEWS ITEMS:     Pakistan, once again
 emphasizing its opposition to the Najib puppet regime's role in the political solution of future Afghanistan, has said that a political solution to the' problem was also possible without Najib. Shaharyar Khan, Pakistan Foreign Secretary, in an interview,-said Pakistan rejected Najib and his party     because     the    resistance
 organizations were all opposed to his role in the matter.
 - The mujaheddin of Koh-e-Safi, using heavy long-range artillery and rockets into the Kabul International Airport which blasted a 4-engine Russian transport plane carrying Soviet military equipment and material and inflicting heavy losses to the enemy.
 - The Faryab mujaheddin attacked the
 Shirin Tagab jail,and released all the political      prisoners,     including
 commander Adam Khan, who was captured in a face-to-face fight with the enemy 18 months ago.
 - Mohammad Khan June jo, a former Prime Minister of Pakistan, told correspondents had his. government not been dismissed by the late President Mohammad Ziaul Haque, the Afghanistan issue would have long been solved. He added that Pakistan government had asked for six weeks time to sign the Geneva accords in order to be reassured by the super powers in regard to the establishment of an acceptable government in Afghanistan and the safe return of the refuges.
                   28
 EDITORIAL: " On the recent victory of mujaheddin". After the capture of Khost
Eshkashem, the editorial recalls other mujaheddin victories and concludes: "Yes, Afghanistan is no longer the society of yesterday where one particular party or group could impose its authority upon them. The need of the hour for the society is understanding among all the Muslim jehad forces of the Islamic revolution where the entire nation could collectively participate, one way or the other. It is only through understanding one another and patience along with maintenance of voluntary unity among all the jehad forces which can be the key to the resolution of all of our basic problems ahd difficulties. In the present difficult and sensitive moments, it is up to us to close our r.anks more than ever before, and according to the holy Quran catch hold firmly, of the "rope of Allah" and destroy the mountains of rift, disunity and atheism, > very faltering and tottering as they are, built by the Satans to ahnihilate us; otherwise our fall into a bysmal chasm, which we have dug ourselves, seems probable.
                              AUGUST
             12
 NEWS ITEMS: With the arrival of a high
 level Soviet Foreign Ministry delegation to Islamabad the second round of talks between Pakistan and Soviet Russia began 11 Auust. While the delegation met with Ghulam Ishaq Khan the President of Pakistan, the latter emphasized the need for the political solution of the Afghanistan problem and called f*or restoration . of national sovereignty, independence, non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan.
 - After the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan the Soviet delegates and Ahmad Shah Masood, chief of JIA Supervisory Council, met for the
 190
                                           I
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          flfGllflNJ[HAQ               VOL.  4 NO.4
 first time on the Russian-Afghan border, north of the country. The news regarding this meeting was conveyed through a message by Ahmad Shah Masood to the Commanders Council. The message indicates, three persons representing the' Supervisory Council discussed bilateral issues of interest.
  - It is expected that a mujaheddin delegation led by Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi will meet with a Russian delegation which is on a visit to Islamabad. The Afghan delegation comprises seven jehad Peshawar-based groups and a HWIA representative.
 - Engineer Ahmad Shah,deputy of IIA, in an ' interview with Al-Bunyan news agency observed that IIA organization will abstain from attending the tripartite second round of talks scheduled to be held in Tehran.
    The mujaheddin of Shaheed Afzali Front swapped a Russian soldier, Qurban Ali, for the release of 25 prisoners 12 August, during a ceremony in Islamabad Hotel. The Soviet delegation, who had arrived in Islamabad for talks with Pakistan and the mujaheddin,, was also present on the occasion.
                   27
      The second round of tripartite talks between the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran for finding a political solution to the Afghanistan issue is to begun'in Tehran today 27 August. Akram Zaki, director-general in the Ministry of Froeign Affairs of Pakistan and Ali Akbar Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, are heading the delegations of their countries.
      Shaharyar, the Secretary of the, Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has said the situation' prevailing in the Soviet Union has accelerated the process of attaining peace in Afghanis-
 tan and will help in finding a political solution. He has hoped that the conference will be able to agree on the formation of a broad-based interim government in Kabul. Shaharyar Khan has added that a 30-member mujaheddin delegation is participating in the Tehran talks but he refused to give the names of the members of the Afghan delegation.
  " In the . first round of the tripartite talks which was held in Islamabad 28 July, the resignation, of the puppet government in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic government was emphasized. At any rate, most political observer are of the opinion that the tripartite talks were first     steps   for an international
 conference . to solve the Afghanistan issue within the frame work of the plan issued by the UN Secretary General.'
      Three jehadic organizations have boycotted these talks. They are HI A (Hekmatyar), which was present in the first round of talks. The HIA has mentioned pre-conditions for the continuation of the talks which was rejected by Iran. Therefore, the HIA has refused to participate in the second round. The IIA, led by Prof. Sayyaf, which had walked out from the Islamabad tripartite conference due to un-diplomatic manners of the Iranian delegation has also refrained to send its delegation’ to the Tehran talks. The HIA of ' Khales has altogether bycotted the talks. The Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, which was not
 invited in the first round of talks,
                                . * •
 has been officially invited to the Iran meeting and Kashefi, representative of the Council, is a member of the Afghan delegation.
      It ought to be mentioned that in this rounds of talks Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi the President of AIG, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of the
191
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991         MANJ[H(|0                  VOL. 4  NO.4
 HEIA (Mohammad i) and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani leader of the NIFA are participating.     ,   x
                         SEPTEMBER
                                    14
 NEWS ITEM: Professor Rabbani leader of the JIA in an interview with the BBC about US-Soviet agreement on stopping the supply of arms to the mujaheddin and Soviet puppet regime in Kabul has said, as far as this, mujaheddin are concerned, this decision will have no bearing because for a long time such assistant has been terminated to the mujaheddin. However, in regard to the Russian' decision for not sending military assistance to the Kabul regim, if truly carried out and the Kabul regime is not covertly assisted and before the month of January large shipment of arms are not made to it, the puppet regime will still resort to policies of trouble making and war. I think this change in the Soviet Russian policy is a positive step.
    Helal, Chairman of the Political Committee of HIA, said such'a move will reduce foreign interference in the Afghan affairs. He said, the issue of cease-fire is an Afghan concern and they themselves should decide about it.
    Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, in a statement released by the ANA* has said as long as the Kabul regime is not toppled by the mujaheddin and an elected Islamic government is not established in Afghanistan, the solution of . the Afghanistan problem would not be possible,
    Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani, leaders of NLFA and NIFA have welcomed the Soviet-American declaration and have also said that, as a result of'this accord, the solution of the Afghanistan isaue may
 be expedited. Mujaddedi has said the measure will help the Kabul government because at present also it has heavy Soviet made weaponry at its disposal and the move will have negative bearing on moderate mujaheddin groups as the Islamic- fundamentalist groups will receive their arms from other sources.
     Sheikh Asef Mohseni, leader of the HIA said the ban of arms will not have any appearing on the mujaheddin because the mujaheddin began their jehad with empty hands and without counting on western arms. He said, for a long time the mujaheddin organizations have not received the American arms anyway. He emphasized that the mujaheddin will continue their jehad until the Kabul regime is toppled.
  Mujahed-e- Far da
                                  JULY
                                      14
 EDITORIAL: We are grateful . to God
 Almighty for His kindness enabling us to bring out the "Mujahed-e-Farda" journal to be of service to our martyrs loving children and youth of our beloved motherland. Needless to say that our performance in the field of Cultural publications so far and in an atmosphere of immigration and jehad has been successful. However, our children and youth are in dire need of more publications since the present newspapers and magazine are not quite upto the level of children's understanding and taste. Therefore,, publication of a special literary standard in line with the children's age and taste was the need of the hour. The journal "Mujahed-e-Farda" was just the thing to fill this significant gap and its main objective is to develop the children's mind and stimulate their inert talents and capabilities, so that
192
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991  HIllllHH(II Mill                       VOL. 4 NO.
the children and youth of today may turn out into the men and women mujaheddin of tomorrow's Islamic Afghanistan.
                  23
EDITORIAL:   "... One of the basic
objectives of the Mujahed-e-Farda is to discover and try to nourish the talents of the children and youth of the mujahed nation.. Therefore, the pages of this newspaper are primarily devoted to various- kinds of material concerning the children and the youth and we try to discover their hidden talents and thus this newspaper may be able to discharge its responsibility for training and nourishing future writers and poets for our Islamic country because our children and youth have great and important responsibilities towards the nation and martyrs of the jehad and Islamic revolution. It is essential that right from now they should study and acquire knowledge and together with Islamic training and education prepare th'emse'lves as mujahed men and women to serve the Islamic government of Afghanistan and the Islamic ummah.
     The Mujahed-e-Farda newspaper has been established for the fulfillment of this noble cause and will move together With you towards this great objective with the caravan of mujaheddin and martyrs and it is sure that Almighty God will assist us and you.
  JUNE-JULY
INTERVIEW:   In . an interview  with  the
Mujahed- Ulus regarding the UN peace plan for Afghanistan, the former Ring Mohammad Zaher Shah said, "The . restoration of peace and security and the maintenarfce of consistency and tranquility in Afghanistan, as an
 independent      country      with    its
 territorial integrity and national sovereignty and its Islamic identity, can only be attained through honoring the will of the people of Afghanistan and non-interference by foreigners and international cooperation with no. strings attached. Likewise, I affirm the UN efforts aimed at the attainment of this objective with equitable management' of political life in Afghanistan based on Islamic principles and the creation of a political leadership acceptable to the majority of the people of Afghanistan through inter-Afghan dialogue on a national scale. In . the light of the
r
 afore-mentioned values, the UN Secretary general's statement consists of these important principles which can contribute to peace-finding efforts through political           channel    and
 inter-Afghan understanding".
      In reply to the question of Mujahed ulus pertaining to UN plan. Dr.       Mohammad Yousuf,>  former  Prime
 Minister of Afghanistan observed: "After the evacuation of Soviet troops from Afghanistan I have asserted that peaceful and political means may be used for the solution of problems since the continuity of extensive          armed
 confrontation for the attainment of final victory leads to further destruction of our homeland and adds to the miseries of the nation. This political solution includes the following': The stoppage of arms supply
 to the warring factions, the imposition of a cease-fire under UN supervision and the establishment of a transitional government preferably from among pro-jehad elements. It will pave the way      for popular public opinion in due
 course. I have no detailed information regarding the UN plan but, generally speaking the plan contains positive points which may lead to the restoration of peace, tranquility and security and as such I whole-heartedly welcome it".
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
III)
VOL. 4 NO.4
Ml.
   AUGUST-SEPTEMBER
     In relation with the UN plan, Abdul Samad Hamed, a former deputy Prime Minister, told the Mujahed Ulus/ "As. observed, this proposal has turned our jehad objectives into the objectives for a settlement, therefore our opposition with this proposal is not only devoid of logic but will prove detrimental to Afghanistan. As such, we ought to participate in this political process and bring about necessary improvements in it based on common objectives, with the intention of maintaining Afghanistan's interests and alleviating the miseries of our people. Regarding the inter-Afghan dialogue he explained, "what I mean is understanding among all the Afghans,, excluding the Kabul regime. In the final stages when the kabul regime is ready to step down, provided there is complete agreement among all the forces, compromising with it will be harmless." .
     Abdul Sattar Seerat,formeri Justice Minister in relation with the UN plan, i told the ' Mujahed Ulus, "It is time that understanding among the Afghans, particularly in jehad circles and its loyal elements be started            and
  coordinated,           resulting in    a
  comprehensive get-to-gether of all the: Afghans so that it can turn into a judicial axis and a political center acceptable to the majority of the Afghans during the transitory period. Understanding the realities among the
»t
  Afghans, international cooperation and UN efforts           will facilitate the
  achievement of this goal."
     Regarding the UN plan, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, told the Mujahed Ulus "UN Secretary General's plan for peace and compromise is' a positive and praiseworthy step towards the political         settlement of  the
  Afghanistan problem."
 INTERVIEW:    Abdul   Sattar  Seerat, a
 former Justice Minister, in relation to his visit to Pakistan where he had gone as a representative of the former monarch, told this'newspaper, as far as I have found out, all Afghan circles related to jehad as well as authorities of our brotherly country Pakistan and other countries and interested circles have found out that the Afghans shoud be afforded the opportunity to manage their political system freely and without foreign intervention. The United Nation's proposed plan also is based on this assumption and now is the time that Afghans should prove to the world once again that the same way they came out victorious in their jehad with foreign enemy, they will also succeed in their jehad against their ego and selfishness. They ought to exhibit statesmanship so the way may be paved for a fair and realistic approach for solving the Afghanistan issue and their* country is saved from annihilation.
               / ■ ■ _
      As to whether he discussed the proposed plan by the former King- with the mujaheddin leaders and commanders, he said the proposed plan by the former King is based on respect for the free will of the people of Afghanistan and appreciation of the values of our historical jehad and the mujahed Afghan nation., It says that selecting a political Afghan leadership is the free right and duty of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and therefore, in my brotherly and friendly discussions with the leaders and commanders of jehad, as (for as possible) I did not feel any opposition to the proposed plan of the former King and while this plan has put the door open for a kind of political initiatives and proposals for reaching a just solution of the Afghan issue,the practical and possible way for achieving our aims would be to organize
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991      mRllftN JtHflfl               VOL.  4 NO. 4
an interim period by making use of the free will of the representatives of the people of Afghanistan.
      In regard to a proposed Afghan jirgah as mentioned in the plan of the former King, the Afghans are continuing their consultation and, God willing,the Jirgah will be convened oaring this very Afghan year in an Islamic country such as Turkey, Egypt or Malaysia or a neutral country such as Switzerland.
      Abdul Hakim Tabibi, a former diplomat, in regard to the Afghanistan issue has told the newspaper, in my opinion peace will be possible in Afghanistan when we refrain from personal ambitions and, as Afghans and Muslim, consider the higher interests of the country superior to our own interests. In our jehad against the Soviet Union we werxe able to drive the Soviet army out of our country and this was possible because of a resort to ' jehad which is a fundamental Islamic obligation. But now that the Soviet aggression has been eliminated, the Kabul regime which has been imposed' on the Muslim people of Afghanistan by tanks and foreign pressure and has deceived our naive-minded' youth to become puppets, should realize that it is in their’ interest not to further resort to arms and conclude that, for the sake of their interest and that of . their children, they should hand over the power to their Muslim countrymen and should not continue to kill and destroy their country with foreign arms and for maintaning alien interests. The mujaheddin and the strugggling people of Afghanistan too should know that peace cannot be achieved only by military means but, along with arms measures# we should allow for talks and ^negotiations as well.                              -
                                                              For achieving peace he proposed that one ,can eliminate the defects of
 the United Nation's five-point plan through a consultative committee. This consultative committee or a broad-based committee whose members should be acceptable to the majority of people and should be pious, experienced and good Muslims and would not be known for close contacts with the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime, being sure of the neutrality and piety Of the members of this committee, should transfer the power c>f the state ■ to this party. This body should, during the interim period, not only discharge the executive affairs but pave the way for the writing of a constitution and elections law and determine the bases of a multi-party system in concord with Islamic principles and acceptable national traditions and hold elections and convene a constituent assembly and refer the proposed constitution • to a grand assembly or Loya Jirgah. Through elections, which should be held without foreign interference under the United Nation or the OIC supervision or a number of Islamic and non-aligned countries, the people should elect their leader.
 ‘, At the conclusion of his remarks he said no group or individual in Afghanistan or the leaders of resistance movements or other group have the right to resort to an action under the name of military jehad to further annihilate, our people and add to the ruins of the country and eliminate the small chance which still exists for peace. They should try for peaceful means, at a time when their military jehad has achieved visible success, and save Afghanistan.
                             ]vC c A
 JUNE-AUGUST
 ARTICLE: "Men's responsibility towards
 the female population"; We are of the opinion that a basic change in the
195
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         IMIillllHJlllMI            VOL.  4 NO.4
mental reconstruction and development of the woman can be caused when our men-folk are aware ot Islam and are determined to bring about the necessary improvements in Women's life. Unlimited objections and protest against women are often noted from honorable ulama, but we should like to say that the woman has been a slave to the intentions of man throughout the history.
     It is also important to mention that families have been responsible for deviation and not schools or madrasas, as we are already witnessing women misbehavior in the environment of migration.
     "if women in refugee environment choose a simple living and observe Islamic hejab (mode of appearance in public), we can really call them committed Muslims, And of course there are numerous women who strictly observe the hejab.
     But if our women fail to follow Islamic norms, then who is to blame? The woman? The Society? Or the family? Should we not consider responsible the guardian, fathers, brothers and husbands? Because these individuals are actually the ones who have failed to pay the slightest attention to hejab and upgrading the moral standards of their families.
     Women can even adjust their day-to-day activities to Islamic conditions both at home and outside. Any woman who violates hejab which is part of human nature, is subject to condemnation and should be controlled by others in an Islamic environment.
     Of course men, too, are expected not to violate their limits. For they should let those women who are attending to their religious obligations to play their role in the society.
  Neda-e-A dalat JULY-AUGUST
  INTERVIEW: Hujjat-ul-Islam Jibraeli)
  spokesmen of the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, in an interview with the Neda-e-Adalat newspaper said about this council:
    By now one year has passed since che re-establishment of this Council. After the formation of. the HWIA and joining of a number of organizations of the former Coalition Council to that party, four groups of the Coalition Council decided not to join the HWIA for specific reasons and resolved to form a new council under the name of the Islamic Coalition Council' of Afghanistan for the sake of intensifying the military and political, struggle and insist on a just solution of the Afghanistan problem acceptable to the nation and mujaheddin Vhich will fulfill the wishes of the majority of our Muslim and mujahed nation. In this way the Coalition Council was formed by four organizations in Tehran and it began work and later, due to political conditions and exigencies, transferred its center of activity from Tehran to Peshawar. At present, the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan consists of : (1) Jabha-e-Muttahed-e-En-
  qelab-e-Islami Afghanistan (Joint Front of the Islamic Revolution of Afghanistan)? (2) Pasdaran-e-Jehad-e-Islami Afghanistan (Guardians of Islamic Jehad of Afghanistan); (3) Harakat-e-Islami$ Afghanistan (Islamic Movement of Afghanistan); (4) Shoora-e-Ittefaq-e-Islami Afghanistan (Islamic Unity Council of Afghanistan);
     The Coalition Council has a supervisory or leadership body consisting of the four organizations in which two representatives from each group participate and they are responsible
196
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HflM ll[||Rfl              VOL. 4 NO.4
for adopting joint decisions in regard to the affairs of the Coalition Council. The Coalition Council has several sections and those heading the sections are appointed by the leadership council. At present the council has offices in Peshawar, Quetta, Parachinar and Islamabad! The spokesman of the council is rotating for every three months among the four groups and at present the spokesman is from the Joint Front of Afghanistan Islamic Revolution and I am carrying that responsibility.
   Neda-e-Haq
                         JUNE
           27
REPORT: In a function 26 April offering prayers to the soles of those martyred during the recent Gardaiz battle, Rahmatullah Wahedyar, Chief Security and jehad officer of HEIA said, "after the mujaheddin victory in Khosti, the Kabul regime, in a state of confusion, called its troops from the northern and central provinces and sent them to Gardaiz. This force, consisted of 500 tanks and armored cars and 3,000 army personnel carriers and other vehicles. Four senior generals namely Manuki Mangal, Imamuddin, Abdul Rashid Dustum and Miakhail were commanding the force. They assured the Kabul regime that they would foil the mujaheddin operations in the South, the Paktia areas and Ghazni and peace would be restored. Taking advantage of the nocturnal darkness, they attacked three HEIA strongholds. But despite lack of logistics and unpreparedness, the mujaheddin fought bravely and for two days contained the enemy's advance to their bunkers. Since the mujaheddin's ammunition was exhausted they had to occupy the hill tops. Nevertheless the mujaheddin inflicted losses upon the enemy.
destroying many of their tanks and killing four officers and 200 troops. He said, "we are sorry to say that some of the brethren whose battle fronts, were in the vicinity of Gardaiz and possessed heavy and light arms did not render any support to this heroic struggle of the HEIA".
              28
REPORT: Mujaheddin, scholars, jehad
commanders and elders of district Sayyed Karam established the jehad battalion for the realization of the lofty aspirations of Islamic unity and got together under the leadership of the HEIA leader, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor. Ghulam Jailani, a graduate of the College of Letters, the Commander of this battalion, in an interview said, "I have performed duties in various organizations for 12 years,, first with Hekmatyar group and then with Mawlana Haqqani. Now the elders of the tribes and commanders decided that our tribes should not fall out among themselves in the name of this or that organization but must stick together in a single trench so that they are saved from disunity. Therefore, it was decided unanimously and with a single voice that all should get together under the command of Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor.
      AUGUST
              21
REPORT: The sixth month convention of
the HEIA student union was held 1 August in the Noor-ul- wadares Farooqia Congregation Mosque. In ‘ this meeting Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan the deputy leader of HEIA, (Mansoor), said HEIA is a political, spiritual, religious and social organization. At the top of the organization is a group of scholars and at its base are students.
                                                    Rahmatullah Wahedyar in his speech
197
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991    ftlGtlllH lllllllil             VOL.  4 N0.4
 said the HEIA led by tile religious scholars was established during the despotic years of Zaher Shah and Daoud and the Islamic scholars spearheaded the struggle against communism and atheists for the sake of preventing non-lslamic trends and deviation of rulers in the Afghan society. We had been witness to the fact that the Afghan. Islamic scholars had time and again in jails, been threatened in various ways by the government but had not relinquished the trench of their struggle for the right cause.
    Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Amir of HEIA in his speech said,, conciliation with enemy would be tantamount to compromising your own objectives with that of the enemy and when these objectives are compromised it is tantamount to giving 'in to infidelity.
   He said the 13 year old jehad of Afghanistan brought about throughout the world changes which annihilated communism, toppled communism organizations and sytems, To-day, throughout the world . . communists> are being executed, tried and in ^he Soviet Union itself to be a communist is considered a crime. This all is the blessing of your jehad. You have kept alive the jehad spirit in the entire world and our jehad taught to entire Islamic Ummah that the only way for preserving the honor of the nations is to resort to jehad.
 Neda-e- Jundallah
                                 JUNE
               22
 REPORT: A MIDIA correspondent reports .
                                              from Kabul, General Rashid Dustum, a commander of the atheist regime militia forces who had an active role in the
 big offensive against the mujaheddin in the Khwajaghar, Takhar, has embezzled 20 million afghanis which was given to him by the Kabul regime to bribe some mujaheddin commanders.
    The report says, Dustum wanted to pay the money to some mujaheddin commanders through his recruits for regaining the Khawajaghar district. However, he did not succeed and now he has kept the money as "blood money" for those militiamen who were killed during the Khost battle.
    The MIDIA reporter, quoting informed Kabul sources says Rashid Dustum, who had taken other sums of money under different pretexts from the regime, is now unable to refund all the money.
                                   JULY
                                        6
 NEWS ITEMS: The Maidan-Wardak mujaheddin in a defensive operation 26-29 July have killed 100 members of the Kabul regime army.
 • The paghman mujaheddin in an operation 2 July have destroyed three enemy posts, killed five militiamen and injured a number of others.
 * The Herat mujaheddin cleaned up 10 villages in the Pashtun Zarghoon district of that Province 29 June from the filth of communist elements and 70 government' militiamen handed over themselves to the mujaheddin.
                                AUGUST
             23
 REPORT: The All Afghanistan Ulama
 Council in a statement issued 21 August has once again called for unity among the mujaheddin ranks and specially among the jehad leadership and those who are
198
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
in a position of taking decisions both in Shia and Sanni organizations. The statement also urges that for the sake of earning the pleasure of Almighty God, stopping outside interference, the right of self-determination ' of the Afghans by the Afghans themselves, the toppling of the Kabul puppet regime, and finally the complete success of the jehad and establishment of an Islamic government in the country, they should join hands with a heart full of sincerity and create an atmosphere of understanding and assistance. We should form such a committed united leadership which will manifest the true will and aspirations of the mujahed people of Afghanistan and pave the way for realizing our objectives.
   . While mentioning the f'act that the lack of a united leadership has not only paved the way for ouotside interference but it has caused disappointment and despair for the Muslim and mujahed people of Afghanistan, the statement says that the continuation of this unpleasant situation has got into question the success of this great jehad and we call upon all those who are in a position of taking decisions to wisely seek proper and effective means for realizing the final objectives.
                         Neda -e-Kabul AUGUST
               29
EDITORIAL: The Kabul province domman-
ders Jehad Council or the symbol of unity. The editorial speaks about the tradition of Afghans for launching resistance against aggressors and give many example of their unity against the aggressors throughout the history and says taking into view such a tradition, the commanders of Kabul province sat
VOL. 4 no.4
 together and established the jehadic council of the commanders of Kabul province exercizing Islamic tolerance and discarding disunity. All the military, political, cultural and social affairs of the Kabul province are now guided and supervized by this organ and the Council is now working hard with an iron fist for the toppling of the Russian puppet regime and rendering futile the plots hatched by enemies of Islam and our Islamic country and it is hoped that they will be able to establish an Islamic govern-ment in the revolutionary and Islamic Afghanistan. The Jehad Council of the Commanders of Kabul Province has been primarily established for the over-throwing of the Kabul government and establishment of a government of ■ Divine justice in the Islamic country of Afghanistan. However, in addition to the motives for establishing the Council which include creating harmony and unity among jehad forces, coordina-
                    I                    i
 ting social, political and cultural affairs, maintaining law and order in liberated areas, preventing lawlessness and . looting of private property, creating an Islamic atmosphere and preserving national and public honor, the Council has other noble aims as well. They include providing humanitarian assistance to deserving people, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the damaged regions, collecting and neutralizing mines planted by Russian hirelings, establishing schools and madrasas for educating people, providing engineering and agricultural services such as building bridges, mosques, houses and revival of kareses, agricultural land and orchards, adopting a single and united posture against plots hatched by the enemies of Islam and also taking a united political stand at national and .international levels taking into consideration the policies of the jehadic organisations, attending to the affairs of the famili-ies of martyrs and those handicapped in
199
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991    HIlUlHnuUlItU                   VOL. 4 NO.4
the war and Qf the mujaheddin and refugees and popularizing and propagating the noble objectives of Jehad Council of the Commanders . of the Kabul Province.
    The Cultural Department of the Commanders Council of the . Kabul Province has had the honor to publish the first issue of the newspaper of the Council called the Neda-e-Kabul. This newspaper speaks about the high objectives of the Council, aspirations of the martyrs, handicapped, mujaheddin and refugees of Islam. We pray to Almighty God to help us achieve these aims and to offer more and better services worthy to the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
       Talee’a
                                  JULY
              23
EDITORIAL: Talee^a, being a newcomer to the world of jehad press, will, God willing, prove the medium of the mujaheddin and our oppressed nation, and will convey the mujaheddin cause for the path of Allah, in their own words in the light of political and military changes. It will explain the achievements,  difficulties and
sufferings of the heroic mujaheddin. Talee'a will unveil anti-islamic groups aligned to the imperialism and will wage a war against those who bargain against our Muslim and mujahed nation's self-determination. It will help towards the final victory of the valiant mujaheddin* by nourishing the cause of all-out solidarity; and promoting their armed struggle.
    Talee'a will always clarify its position in the face of super powersK and'their henchmen and will publish news
 of the entire world, particularly that of the Islamic world and its movements.
 Payam-e-lslam
                               JULY
             2
 EDITORIAL: "The return of Babrak Karmal and the wait for Zaher Shah": After
 discussing the background of the problem it concludes, "the rumors regarding the return of the ex-King were all the more accentuated by the visit of his representative to Islamabad and his talks with Pakistani officials. Meanwhile, across the Durand line, Babrak Karmal, who had come to Kabul in the company of Russian troops and had also gone accompanied by them, has returned to Kabul. Needless to say that the return of Karmal, the erstwhile friend of ex-King, to Kabul and the visit of thp ex-King's representative i.e. his cousin to Islamabad is a subject which provides good reading. Pragmatically speaking the return of Karmal could serve as a prelude to the return of ex-King and i there are good many common reasons for it. The bearded religions and orthodox known as fundamentalists are hated by both the sides. Democracy, multiparty system, the restoration of democratic rights of the people and Afghan nationalism along with national reconciliation are the, topics of the Kabul rulers and that of the ex-King supporters. The return of Karmal and the knocking of Kabul doors by the ex-King, are all, in a way, being done for peace. But what less attention is being paid to is that without participation and assistance of the entire forces, particularly that of the fundamentalists, along with a frame-work of national policy representing all the people of Afghanistan the restoration of peace
 &i .  -V. ■ '■ »
 P.0. Box 1323, Kabul, Afghanis??.:? Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25886
200
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         fllGIIHNJIHflfl            VOL- 4  NO*4
 seems an impossibility.
                  16
 EDITORIAL: "Diplomatic urgency towards
 the resolution of Afghanistan crisis". The editorial discusses the failure in military solution and the conceit of the Kabul regime, the improvement of Soviet-US relations, recalls the acceptance of a plan in, Cambodia in which 50 percent of Soviet and Vietnamese puppet regime will share the future of Cambodia. Discussing the diplomatic urgency of ^resolving the Afghanistan crisis and achievements of Iran and Pakistan, the editorial concludes, "in case the mujaheddin parties do not. watch their steps with realistically understanding the current sensitive and decisive conditions with due regard to their past history and national responsibility, they will weaken their front and allow the enemy to make the best of the situation in their own interest".
                  31
 EDITORIAL: "Tripartite parleys and the
 solution of Afghanistan crisis":  The
 newspaper -discusses the events which brought the communists in power as well as Soviet interests in Afghanistan and. then dwells on the process of talks and the interests of Pakistan and Iran and says, it is of paramount importance for the jehad groups to make use of the current harmony prevailing between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Pakistan regarding the future of Afghanistan to their full advantage. The internal situation of mujaheddin parties demonstrates that, at this juncture their own initiatives will face difficulties. Had, there been any initiative, it could have surfaced earlier and friends would- have been asked to support. Jehad forces have, lost golden chances which could have been used to topple the regime. In case the    tripartite     parleys prove
 beneficial, either of the solutions-political and military- will bring the jehad forces close to their goal. It is upto jehad forces to take advantage of the opportunity and by using realism and political prudence, do not allow the current pairleys to fail; since its failure and absence of political and military unity among the factions will worsen the situation all the more and shall only benefit the enemy. West and East will, otherwise, identify the mujaheddin as war mongers and our enemy as groups striving for peace and~will impose the regime of their choice on Afghanistan. In that case the fruits of our jehad will have been thrown to the wind and the aliens shall dominate our country.
 EDITORIAL:  "Political changes and the
 responsibilities of 'jehad forces". It has discussed international positions in regard to the Afghanistan issue and at the end writes about the most recent development- the coup in the Soviet Union- ahd writes:
      The military coup in the Soviet Union,which has toppled Gorbachev, and has brought into power hard-line, pro-Stalin and Brezhnev communists will bring about deep-routed changes in the domestic and foreign policies of the Soviet Union specially in regard tp its Afghan policy and there are strong indications to believe that pursuing the Brezhnev line they will once more resort to military measures and this entails an unconditional support of the Kabul regime. The new developments iii the Soviet Union increase and makef-gravSr the responsibilities of the mujaheddin, jehad groups and their supportersi The mujaheddin leaders, who haVe so far not been able to unite for the sake of their religion and the
201
 I
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         MMIJIHIID                  VOL. 4 NO.4'
      interest of their Islamic country, should know from now that with the revival of hard-line communism in the Soviet Union and a resort to old policy in Afghanistan will put on the new -   development at jeopardy, including the
      United Nations plan and the Iranian, Pakistani, and mujaheddin efforts.
*    Taking in view the new change in the
      Soviet Union,, the , religious and historical responsibilities of the jehad forces, leaders and all the Muslim and the mujahed Afghan people (Afghanistan requires unity of views and action in all dimentions so that they may be able to resist against the new Stalinists in the same way they fought the old Stalinists during the occupation. With all, probabilities, efforts for finding a political solution 7 will be weakened ' and the mu jaheddin will have no alternative for regaining their re.al independence of the country other than continuing the jehad and religious and national resistance.
                                                       SEPTEMBER
                                 ; .; -/"It ;
      EDITORIAL: Wishful thinking and realism in politics: The editorial says that
      Soviet policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan has. not changed and it is possible that big changes might occure in the Soviet Union, but they will not alter the Soviet strategy. What is. going to be changed will be the approach and not objective : and long term strategy, of the Soviet Union.
           Also the editorial says that the harmony observed in the positions of Iran and Pakistan in the two conferences of Islamabad and Tehran with the participation of jehad leaders is a welcome phenomenon. The editorial says, if the mujaheddin had created one, v    single political and military body and
      had asked Iran and Pakistan for support, perhaps difficulties existing
for achieving our objectives would have been reduced. Now that Iran and Pakistan have become pioneers for solving the issues, it is imperative upon the leaders and parties to act together with a single and coordinated stand with their benefactors and to confront issues related to the future of the Islamic country of Afghanistan wisely and consistently.
Payam-e-Jehad JULY-AUGUST
REPORT: Kozerev, the leader of Russian delegation on his return from Islamabad to Moscow in a press interview said, we have had direct talks with the mujaheddin leadership in the past as well. Our first meeting was held in 1988 but the mujaheddin themselves suspended those talks. At that time they considered the policy pursued by Moscow in regard to Afghanistan as inflexible and they announced that, they would no longer hold talks with Moscow. From that time until now, the mujaheddin were encountering us with a position of power over politics but in the Islamabad talks they have understood our position and have expressed their desire for further contacts for solving the Afghanistan issue. I have held a one and half hour meeting with the mujaheddin delegation comprized of basic opposition groups of Afghanistan, including the organization headed by Hekmatyar.
   The mujaheddin have been giving various kinds of views about the Soviet Union, some saying it is just and some saying it is unjust. However, our talks were held in friendly language. We were trying that our talks would not assume an inflamated tone and these talks should pave the way for fruitfull negotiations aimed at normalizing the situation in Afghanistan.
202
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         MlillUNJMAO                VOL. 4  NO.4
  Payam-e- Mujahed
 REPORT:  The  daily Pravaa of Moscow
 writes: This is a glaring reality that the leaders of Watan Party have passed the period of mistakes and the current condition of Afghanistan is the result of their blunders.' Although more than ever the party leaders and its various wings are divided among themselves, in case a powerful government gets in saddle for the future, the Watan Party 1 can play a positive role. If Najibullah is unpopular with the people# opposition to Najibullah does not mean opposition , to the party. They may dislodge Najibullah but the role of his party cannot he overlooked.
 EDITORIAL:  "Neutrals in the service of
 the Kabul regime". On the eve of the Soviet defeated army's withdrawal from Afghanistan, one of the deceptive tactics of Najib regime was to camuoflage the dirty face of the criminal band of "PDPA" behind the smoke screen of respect to human rights and the sharing of state power with the neutral elements. Najib wanted to deceitfully convince the people that he is not interested in monopoly and centralisation of power to his own party since the entire Muslim Afghan nation considers the communist party a tool in the hands of Russians with whom they dragged the nation to the brink of destruction. The regime tried, by means of a series of superficial and ostensible changes, according to its own thinking, to wipe out the general impression among the public about its role. As such on the one hand, the
 sold-out party of PDPA,. changed its name to that of "Hezb-e-Watan" and, on the other,, some of the unprincipled elements were brought into the regime fold in the name of neutrals*
     These elements have virtually no say in Najib's organization or decision making power but are simply bound to decrees issued by criminal communist party.
    As far as the issue of participation of non-aligned elements in the PDPA's cabinet is concerned, experiences have shown that this kind of cooperation and compromise, whether spring from ambition or fear, has benefitted the Najib regime. In fact these neutral elements, have served the cause of Najib better and more effectively than the communists related to the PDPA. Therefore, these elements are. as good accomplices in the crime as the communist party members. Those in charge of parties which ostensibly have the right to oppose the regime are in fact tools of the oppressive Kabul regime to show to the world* that the regime is fond of freedom and is patiently bearing the opposition point of view.
      Therefore, both the elements -"neutrals" and "opposition parties'. are carrying out a single duty, i.e. -to draw human features out of a regime which is the proven enemy of humanity. But the days of such deceitful policies are numbered and our people identify .these deceitful tactics very well, in whatever garb they may appear.
                29
 NEWS ITEMS:    According to reports
 received from General Headquarters of Hazrat Omar Farooq Front the mujaheddin captured the post of Qala-e-Mir Hasan Agha 25 July in the Kobki area and seized a quantity of arms and ammunition killing five troops.
203
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         DIGIIANJdlAU               VOL-  4 NO-4
   The mujaheddin of General Headquarter of Hazrat Omar Farooq 1 May captured the Arghandeh Shad Khana post 18 July, captured 4 soldiers and a quantity of equipment and ammunition.
                              AUGUST
                                    19
 EDITORIAL: "The defeat of Kabul regime
 military ventures in the ; past four months". The editorial enumerates the mujaheddin victories in Khost, the defeat of Kabul regime forces in Logar and Zendajan, mujaheddin encounters with the regime troops in Paghman, Maidan and Wardak, the. conquering of Khwajaghar, the sending of government troops to Khanabad, the conquering of Pamir, Zebak, Dasht-e-Qala, Shighnan and Eshkashem districts in the Badakhshan and Takhar provinces and concludes:.
    Now the mujaheddin operations have been intensified throughout Afghanistan, especially around Kabul. The mujaheddin intend to cohtinue this war with great zeal until the fall of the Kabul regime. The fall of the Kabul regime is nearing and it is upto the armed forces of the regime to help in toppling of the Najib regime and join the mujaheddin and thus avoid the destruction of Kabul and bloodshed. It is worth mentioning that the plots hatched by the infidelity and world hegemony headed by the Russians and Americans cannot avoid mujaheddin victory. The plots undertaken by the UN under the direction of America and Russia against our jehad will, God willing, be defeated in the face of th,e will of the mujaheddin of this country. The only way for the establishmment of Islamic government and putting an end to the remnants of infidelity and atheism in Afghanistan is to continue the armed jehad.
   SEPTEMBER
          2
 REPORT: The Tehran tripartite meeting
 has ended.. • , .
      A 20-member delegation, comprising the Peshawar based mujaheddin organi-tions, headed by Sebighatullah Mujaddedi visited Iran last week to participate in a conference for solving issues related to Afghanistan. The conference was attended by. Professor Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, . Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazin1 and -iQazi Mohammad Amin Weqad. The first tripartite conference was held 28 July in Islamabad between Iran, Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin.
      In the Tehran conference Akram Zaki, the Secretary General of the Pakistan Foreign Ministry, headed the Pakistani delegation while Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran headed the Iranian delegation. The Tehran conference decided that a mujaheddin delegation should hold talks with the UN Secretary General on issues related to Afghanistan. It also decided that direct talks should be held with the" Russians in regard to Afghanistan issue and that a next tripartite conference should be held in Islamabad. The Tehran conference also supported the. United Nation’s five-point program for the solution of the Afghanistan issue.
      The HIA (Hekmatyar), IIA and HIA (Khales)boycotted the Tehran meeting.
  Payam-e-Shahada
  JUNE JULY
 REPORT:  In  an  interview with the BBC
 Sayyed Hussain Anwari, Commander rf HIA (Moheseni) forces in Kabul Province
204
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
 and member of the Kabul' Provincial Council, observed, a fierce battle raged 1 June-3 July this year in Maidan province in which 47 enemy tanks, 100 transport vehicles, two jet aircraft, two BM41 along with two batteries were completely destroyed and a total of 800 regime personnel were killed and 450 wounded. He said, HIA (Mohseni), HIA (Hematyar), IIA, JIA and HEIA are participating in this battle. He said at present the mujahddin are in ■ offensive poistion. The regime,forces have lost their offericive power in the face of mujaheddin's resistance and have stopped combat.' He said the mujaheddin have lost 31 with 90 wounded and from the locals totally 150 women, children and old people have been martyred in this battle.
 JULY-AUGUST
 INTERVIEW: Ustad Ahmadi, the Assistant
 Chief of the Provincial Council of Kabul of HIA (Mohseni) in an interview with the correspondent of Payam-e-Shuhada has shed light on the military, political, cultural, educational and health activities of the council.
    In the military dimension both inside the oppressed city of Kabul and in its vicinities- Paghmah, Maidan, Shamali and Southern regions of Logar and Jaji district- the mujaheddin haVe inflicted heavy blows: to the Kabul regime. In Kabul city the regime is Standing on its toes and the mujaheddin are killing Kabul government officials, including Russians, demolishing military areas and blowing out government centers and causing insecurity and fear for the Khalqis and Parchamis. One can give as an example the kidnapping of a Russian advisor, killing of Russian hirelings, the, explosion which took place in cantonment of Qargha, Loya Jirgah, Soviet House of Culture, Soviet Embassy, Tapa-e-Tajbeg and hundreds of other centers of corruption
VOL. 4 NO.4
 and prostitution. Also in the Paghman Maidan and Sanglakh regions the mujaheddin have inflicted heavy blows to Russian hirelings. The 22-day long mujaheddin war in Sanglakh against
 44,000 government troops in July, 1987 could be considered a vivid example of these activities. In the course of these activities 17 Kabul regime planes were downed and in, the northern region of Bagram the mujaheddin launched several rocket raids against the Bagram Airport.
     In the cultural field, books and cassets dealing with religious1 and jehad subjects, have been distributed. We have issued#statements, posters and information guides, to mujaheddin and their supporters inside Kabul city. Ustad Ahmadi has listed in his interview a number of books which his organization has published. He has said, in the field of education the .organization established 84 centers of learning inside the country and in the field of public health he has said several clinics have been,established for the mujaheddin inside Afgani-stan and the mujaheddin supporters have been trained in medical courses.
     For publicizing the cause of jehad the mujaheddin of this organizatiorv have undertaken trips to Iran, Pakistan , and other Asian as well as European, countries and they have arranged many trips for foreign journalists inside \ Afghanistan to acquaint them with the conditions of jehad.
   AUGUST-SEPTEMBER
 REPORT:  A source of the Coalition
 Council says:   Brother Hasan All
 Mohammadi resporisible for the Hezbullah Afghanistan office in Peshawar has joined the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan alongwith a number of prominet members of that group. They have done so after realizing the sensitive conditions of the revolution
205
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991           flfHIWHJ[H/10                VOL. 4  NO.4
and desiring farther harmony among jehad forces.
      According to another report brother All Hasan Mohammadi and his colleagues in a statement issued in Peshawar have said that the reasons for them to join the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan has been certain differences/ of opinion regarding policy matters with the Hezbullah.
      The office of the Coalition Council has welcomed the .move.
 REPORT:   In a speech, prior to
 Eid-ul-Adha prayers in Nusrat Maina Hekmatyar the HIA, leader said, "the Afghan issue cannot be solved in hotels and through foreign intrigues. We shall fight against their plots with all our might even if it is supported by the whole world". He said, "the US and her croonies1 are trying to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, weaken and discredit the jehad forces, decompose our national unity and instigate national leaders and mujaheddin commanders against jehad organizations". He added that the entire jehad forces who were committed to Islam and favored an Islamic government in Afghanistan and were not prepared to get themselves involved in the intrigues, ought to get together for a final and decisive blow. He observed, "in the past the Russians insisted that ,Najib should remain in power but now they do not talk about it any more and are contended only with Najib*s party sharing a coalition, government"..He said, "efforts for the so-called political settlement are aimed solely and wholly at diverting
 the mujaheddin attention from jehad. The basic points of UN plan require that the problem of Afghanistan be resolved through conciliation among the present    Kabul      rulers,    former
 politicians and the mujaheddin. He added,     "nationalists and the
 politicians who have fled to the West prefer loya jirgah to elections because the nation will not stand by them,' end they will support the mujaheddin instead".
                 30
 NEWS ITEMS:   A group of hundreds of
 former inmates who had recently been freed from the Pul-e-Charkhi prison organized a meeting in Hayatabad 27 June. The participants of this
 assembly, belonging to various mujaheddin organizations, condemned negotiations with the Kabul regime or the murderous leaders and supporters of previous dictatorial regimes. During this meeting, they voiced unanimously their sentiments in the following words: "Our  Muslim  and mujahed nation
 would never accept the executioners of yester years, whose hands are still stained with the blood of our martyrs, to be the masters of our nation for a second time.
 - Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales,'leader of HIA, has observed that it is only after the military victory of mujaheddin that peace can be restored in Afghanistan. The peace, as required by the UN in Afghanistan, is not possible until certain conditions are fulfilled. One of these .is the denial of power to Najib. He went on to say that all the treaties signed as of Daoud's period till now ought to be considered unvalid. When all these terms are accepted, the mujaheddin will then be ready to hold talks.
  206
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
mil
         2
 REPORT:    Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, HI A
 leader, attended a banquet 30 June held in his honor by the Islamic -Coalition ' Council of Afghanistan. Speaking on the Occasion he said, "we appreciate the bold i step taken by the Coalition Council regarding the transfer of the Council from Tehran to Peshawar. God willing, we would not spare the Council any kind of our military or/ political cooperation. We are. committed to safeguard our national unity because in future Afghanistan the entire cross-section of our people, whether shia or sunni, must participate in the functional activities. Whosoever exploits up the religious, ethnic arid linguistic emotions is bur enemy. We ■ are grateful to pur neighbouring countries (Pakistan aind Iran) for their cooperation, but would not give them the right . to interfere in inter-jehad affairs. Some friends may favor1 a weaker post-revolution Afghanistan in the future and the number of those circles which sincerely favor the unity and solidarity Of our nation is very small. It is up to us to consider our national unity and the valuable aspirations of the Islamic revolution. There are hands working vigorously to sow the seeds of rift and discord among us. Therefore# it is our responsibility to consider our national unity and the exalted objectives of the Islamic Revolution. Afterwards Hujattul Islam-wal-Muslimeeh Javed, spokesman of the. Coalition Council, expressed his gratitude .in regard, to the HIA cooperation and its mujahed leadership. He insisted upon harmony and solidarity among the. Muslim and committed forces. Ayatullah Taqaddusi* the leader of the guards of Afghanistan Islamic Jehad, and member of the leadership body of Coalition
                                                                                           VOL. 4 no.4
 Council and. Hu.jjatul Islam Jibraeli, member of the leadership body of Islamic United Front, in their statements also expressed their gratitude for. the cooperation and political and military harmony between the two revolutionary foundations.
           : 4 V '■
 REPORT: Referring to the recent remakrs by Wall Khan, Leader of the ANP# Hekmatyar, leader of ’ HIA observed, "Wall Khan's recent "and inopportune remarks stem from his deeprooted animosity and ,hatred towards the mujaheddin and are similar to his previous allegations about the jehad of •Afghanistan. Against a handful of money that he receives from the Kabul regime, he has. started an ignominious’ political business by sending refugees via Delhi to Kabul by counterfeited Pakistani passports. But even in this business he has been misusing the regime funds and. has thus lost 1 the regime's confidence.
      In order to attract the attention of Kabul regime rulers he repeatedly ask,pd to meet me in my residende. Aft,er a friend of Wall Khan told me that this time he had an important message for me# we granted.. him the permission to call on us. During the talks it transpired that the object of his visit was to regain the lost confidence of the Kabul regime. He is trying to reassure the Kabul regime by paving the way for a. meeting between the mujaheddin leaders and Najib. Wali Khan insisted on sending a mujaheddin delegation via Delhi to Kabul but we explained to him that there Was no possibility of any kind of compromise with Najib; Najib should surrender to the mujaheddin unconditionally. At last he gave in to our. reasoning and agreed that our stance regarding the Kabul regime will be conveyed, through a mission, to Najib. Ignoring all these
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        Hlflllllnil
      facts, I am at a loss to understand, how much . does he gain by telling white lies?
t          He terms thes Afghanistan and.
      Kashmir Jehads as agitations and troubles but, according, to him, the cruelty and crimes of the Russian and Indian puppets in Kabul and Srinagar', are justified.
                                                 7
      REPORT: Speaking in Nusrat Maina Mosque prior to Juma prayers 5 July, Engineer Hekmatyar observed: Lasting*' peace in
      Afghanistan can be restored only with the end of foreign installed government. The west wants to impose on the Afghans a.permanent government from outside, in the name of interim government."
          "The basic aim of the latest plan is to start tripartite talk's among mujaheddin, the communist party and the former rulers.' He said those who have held secret talks with Najib and have come to a compromise as well, have sent delegates to Kabul ahd Swiss, dare not admit to the Afghan nation to have had talks with' Najib. No joint government can be constituted with Najib, neither talks can be held with him nor as a party he    can  participate    in  the
      elections. He went on to say, "as a 1  matter of   fact  not only we    but the
      entire Afghan nation and all the mg jaheddin are  opposed to    this  UN
      plan".
      i
           The Afghan nation ought , tp be given the right . to determine their future themselves without any outside pressure or interference.
      * Ismail Siddiqi, Secretary of the 28-member       joint commission of the
      entire jehad organizations, in an interview, explained that at the very outset the commission has endorsed these points:
null                      vol.  4 wo.4
 (i) Najib and his party and followers
 shall not       have  the      right of
 participation in the government neither during. the interim period nor ever after it.
 (ii) The mujaheddin shall not consider Najib . and his followers, who are murderers of the nation, as a party to the case and will not hold any kind of dialogue with them.
1 (iii) As long as Najib and his party remain in power the armed jehad will continue and there is no room for any kind of ceasefire.
    Similarly this commission is comprised of the following teams:      a
 four members team as liaison between jehad leaders, jehad .forces and the commission, - a three member team incharge of publication and distribution of news items and a five member team is busy in drafting the constitutional plan for the interim period and after consideration and discussion will present the plan to the commission.
                   9
 NEWS ITEMS:     The mujaheddin have
 rejected the program of talks with Kabul regime* and members of Watan party. According to reports after the talks of Klaus Jacobi, Swiss Foreign Minister/with mujaheddin leaders it was clarified that talks with Najib and his Watan party have been rejected by the mujaheddin unanimously. Earlier the Swiss F-roeign Minister had welcomed the UN peace plan' and had also expressed his readiness for hosting the future talks.
      General Fazal Haq , member provincial Assembly and former Governor NWFP, has asked the Prime Minister of Pakistan to thoroughly study the latest interview of the ANP leader Khan Abdul Wall Khan. Wall Khan has accused the
208
♦
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 military generals r of  selling the
 Oajri Camp armaments and has accused Pakistan of' meddling    in Kashmir,
 Afghanistan and Indian Punjab. Fazal Haq said that the entire nation should ponder over Wali Khan's interview since he has accused a very important and sensitive national institution. He said that the Afghan nation are determined to achieve the goals of gaining freedom and the establishment of an Islamic government and, God willing, they are to succeed, even though they do not receive any external aid.
                   11
 NEWS ITEMS: At an obituary ceremony of late Barat Mohammad Sauda 4 July, Professor Rabbani said:       "Afghan
 mujaheddin ought to close their ranks for the sake of national solidarity and the realization of jehad aspirations in the present sensitive stage of jehad. Circumstances in Afghanistan have currently reached a sensitive stage and call for vigilance". He added that JIA insisted once more on the solidarity of the entire jehad organizations so that they can be united for the success of Islamic revolution.
    Abdul Rahim Cheenzai, a former loyalist of Zaher Shah and the Chief ( editor of Faryad Journal, was kidnapped by unknown persons. There is news to the effect that Cheenzai had left his house for Thakal Bala. 9 July when some unidentified persons forcibly pushed him inside a Suzuki Car and drove away. His whereabouts is still unknown and nobody has claimed responsibility for his abduction.
                   14
 NEWS ITEMS:The Frontier Post of Peshawar 13 July, . has quoted Hekmatyar, the leader of HIA, as saying that '•'the Arabs must leave Afghanistan". During a news briefing he said:      This is
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 baseless and devoid of any facts. A handful of Arabs are working in Pakistan     and     Afghanistan . on
 humanitarian grounds and are rendering human assistance to the Afghan refugees and the people of liberated areas. We are grateful to them for their assistance and basically the question of their ouster from Afghanistan does not arise".
                                                16
 REPORT: In a conference organized by
 Islamic Cultural Center of Afghanistan 11 July on the latest developments Of the country, Sayyed Nurullah Emad, the Secretary of JIA observed, "the term ‘ •political solution' like other political expressions is a .multisided jargon which could carry various meanings and explanations. But whatever is common to all the expressions is that political solution is the exact opposite of jehad. Particularly if it is planned by enemies of jehad, it means to abandon or denounce the jehad. The Russians have found this, plan perfectly in line with their interests apd intentions and are supporting it heartily. Earlier the stoppage of military aid and cease-fire were insisted upon in the name of national reconciliation     and holding of
 elections.
      Although Pakistan is in favor of mujaheddin's victory, but due to the differences and lack of harmony among the mujaheddin organizations, is also supporting the UN plan.
 ' Iran has accepted this plan unconditionally and has emphasized that the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran stay as one side of the deal and consider-the Najib government as the other side to the conflict.
  "The three organizations namely NLFA, NIFA, HEIA (Mohammad!) have agreed to the UN plan without objection
                                                                                                                            209
; *
or
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                   HlllllHIIllIllHlI                                       VOL.    4  NO.4
 condition.
 . "The Shia HWIA has also ' accepted the plan with some amendments to it.
  "Professor Rabbani has accepted some of its points and rejected others.
  "Professor Sayyaf,- Engineer Hekmatyar and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales have rejected it having no comprehensive plan of their own".
     He pointed out that it was upto our youth to organize rallies and demonstrations (as to the start of this movement) in schools, universities and Camps and express their dissatisfaction of the present; situation and ask the leaders not to lose this opportunity., for God's sake.
                   18
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin pounded the Kabul Airport 7 July with their long-range weapons destroying a 4-engine aircraft and four trucks. The trucks were hit while they were being unloaded of military equipment by militiamen.
 - The Kandahar mujaheddin pounded the airport 9 July destroying a helicopter and killing 10 soldiers. A goods depot was also burnt to ashes.
                   21
 NEWS ITEMS:    A former UN (stet)
 official has said that the possibility of talks regarding the resolution of the Afghanistan problem is very scant. Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan, has stated that none of the mujaheddin leaders are ready to talk to Kabul government. He added that the Afghan issue does not concern only the Kabul, goververnment (But related to Afghans as a whole). When asked whether the issue would be solved with the ouster
 of Najib, he said, that the presence or absence of Najib is none of UN business, adding that the UN Secretary General plan of May has considered the basic elements for the solution of the Afghanistan issue.
 - The Logar mujaheddin in their joint operations in Logar 15 July seized seven enemy tanks.
 - The mujaheddin of Khanabad district shot down a regime jet aircraft in the same district 20 June.
                28
 NEWS ITEMS: The Faryab mujaheddin shot down a helicopter of Kabul regime in Pashtun Kot district 23 July.
 -   The mujaheddin of Charasiyab district near Kabul during operation^ on the security belt 14 July killed 23 militiamen and wounded several others.
    The Kunduz mujaheddin killed 21 Soldiers and militiamen of the regime in Khawaja Ghaltan and Dasht-e-Archi areas 15 July and burnt up three tanks and armored army carriers.
    The Logar mujaheddin killed five henchmen of the regime in Dasht-e-Babus destroying a machine gun. According to another news item the regimet aircraft bombarded a mujaheddin baSe in Dobandi area which resulted in the destruction of mujaheddin's bases. Five mujaheddin were killed and a number wounded. In another operation 15 July, the Gardez mujaheddin shot down a regime jet aircraft while it was bombing their positions.                      ,
 - The mujaheddin of Kandahar province in an attack on the airport destroyed three enemy tanks and captured 10 soldiers. ,
                30
 NEWS ITEMS: Speaking in Nusrat Maina 26
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 July prior to Junta prayers, Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA said, "We shall continue our jehad till the alien installed regime is toppled and is replaced , by a genuine Islamic government established by the mujaheddin.
 -The mujaheddin of Paktia province in their operations 19 July captured three important posts killing 20 communist soldiers. Similarly. in Kotal-e-Tera they killed 16 enemy personnel and inflicted heavy losses to the Kabul regime forces.
    With the capture of. Eshkashem dis^ trict in Badakhshan, 600 men of the atheist regime were captured and. more
than 2, seized.
 700 pieces of weapons
AUGUST
 .■■■■■■ 1
were
 REPORT: Addressing the scholars in the compound of Jehad' University 28 July, Hekmatyar observed:     Now . Moscow is
 willing to let Najib go and replace him with an. interim government. In fact the west has presented the coalition government plan as a privilege to the Soviets. If one wants to establish an Islamic government, this objective cannot be achieved without jehad. I am sure that a joint attack launched by the mujaheddin will topple down the Kabul regime easily and quickly. I swear by Gpd Almighty that. I was certain of the Russian's defeat. This belief had risen from my faith and heart and now again I believe that God Almighty will sterilize and defeat the enemy's conspiracies against jehad. We shall- resist steadfastly all the internal and external intrigues even if we are left alone by the whole world. Geneva agreement was an eyewash and the Russians wanted to camouflage their defeat behind it. He said that the
 names of those scholars who have started this historical and great jehad Will be written in gold letters by the Islamic history. God willing, the mujahed scholars will establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan with their own hands. Presently Kabul regime depends on militia mercenaries. If, for the time being, total unity is not possible, _let us agree on joint operations. I am authorizing you scholars' to go and make other groups agreeable to real unity, we are ready.
    The tripartite historical session 29-3Q July among the Afghan mujaheddin leaders, the Foreign Minister of Iran and the the Secreary General of Pakistan Foreign Ministry at the end of the session issued a joint declaration. Informed sources of HIA have recounted the positive points Of this conference as follow:
 (1)  Pakistan- and Iran based mujaheddin leaders, Pakistan government and the government of Iran are in agreement that Najib is a puppet and is illegally installed' in Afghanistan and he must be replaced with an Islamic and elected government.
 (2)  The three sides have concluded that the UN 5-point plan is not perfect ' anc| only some positive points can be seen in it and they too require further study and consideration.
 - Engineer Guibuddin. Helal, the Chief of HIA Political Department and the representative, of HIA, while rejecting the UN 5-point plan in the tripartite conference, observed that due to the emphasis . of the plan on the inter Afghan dialogue including Najib, the entire plan stand un-etcceptable for us.
                   3    .
 REPORT:  The seventh round of HIA
 elections was inaugurated at a ceremony in Noman Mosque of Nusrat Maina. A
211
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
                                                                                    VOL. 4 NO.4.
large number of party members and activists attended the meeting held for
this purpose.
       Jawad, head of the Department of Party Recruitment of , HIA,speaking about the objectives and ways of holding the elections ‘observed:  Elections are one
of the cardinal principles of HIA which are being held on time, according to the constitution, since the founding of the party. Those eligible to vote and their membership confirmed by the Party Recruitment Department can participate in < the elections. The elections have 1 two stages:    (1)  the
election of the leader a<nd (2) the election of the members of Central Council. In the election of leader, the members and party organs of HIA vote secretly, directly and freely for the candidate of their choice.
     In the party constitution whosoever is endowed and superior in piety, honesty, knowledge and education and political prudence, will be elected as leader and there is no candidacy.
     Members of the Central Council too are introduced by the Department of Party Recruitment from each district and sub-district which constitute an electoral unit. Missions are also sent to carry out the electoral procedure inside Afghanistan.
     To carry out the electoral work in Peshawar, about 31 electoral constituencies are convened so that every one can utilize his right of vote in his nearest electoral constituency; in constituency No. 30 of Nusrat Maina. 3,200 party members and organs have registered their names for participation in the elections.
     Later Hekmatyar in a speech said, '’this is the seventh election of its. kind that has been held since the formation of the party. Elections were held for the fipst time at the
 Mosque of the Poly technical Ins titute in Kabul in 1972 resulting in the creation, of a five member council. "After the death of Professor Abdul Rahim Niazi, 250 people assembled in that mosuque for voting in elections. Martyr Saifuddin Nusratyar and Sayyed Nurullah Emad were nominated as members of the election board and consequently Martyr Engineer Habibur Rahman, Mawlawi Habib-ur-Rahman, Saifuddin Nusratyar, Ghulam Rabbani Ateesh and I were elected for leadership and management of the party.
      "From the very inception of the movement we have held elections continuously, under . war and peace and on time.
      "We believe in elections since it is a cardinal principle of our Islam and social order. We believe that an Amir should be elected by the people for guidance and administration of the nation. The approximate figures issued by Deartment of Party Recruitment point out that this year, most probably, around one million members and organs will participate in the elections. Those with more than 10           years*
 management experience and those with at least six years experience are called organs and members respectively. Hekmatyar added: God willing the future party Council, comprising the district and sub-district representatives as its members, will bring forth a fresh policy and Excutive Council for the party and shall review the party policy line, working procedures, rules and regulations.
      "T propose to my brethren to cast their votes for righteous and sincere persons, elect such persons on whose honesty, sincerity and commitment to Islam and their length of service to £he Movement you may rely."
                                                              He said HIA- is the target of cbnspiracies and considered obastacle
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
wmw
VOL. 4 NO.4
 to enemy objectives. All have conspired to weaken, disrupt and malign the p'arty but we could not care, less for that. In case we are internally organized and the enemy cannot drive a wedge through our ranks and employ feeble minded persons, undoubtedly all of their intrigues will be neutralized;
                    4
 INTERVIEW: Pertaining to the latest
 incidents in Kunar province, Deputy of HIA Military Department and Commander of Kunar, Wahdedullah Sabawoon observed, "the basic factors behind the Kunar incident are . the foreign plots. People with a lust for power are assigned to creat obstacle in jehad operation. The elements leading this agitation, ostensibly putting up a show of learning and religion, are bent upon misleading the people and mujaheddin and pursuing this homicidal and anti-jehad program and they want to ple&se their alien masters". He said in Kunar all the organizations are of the belief that they had been subjected to brutal and inhumane acts by the "Salafis". So far they have all been patient. They have given away their property but spilling the mujaheddin's blood proved to be the last straw for them and now the "clergy man" created such a situation wherein defiance has become obligatory on each and evey one. Now the patience of the entire organizations has reached to the point of saturation and every one is ready for any kind of confrontation. All mujaheddin forces have started systematic and speedy action, for the sake of safeguarding the jehad, maintaining peace and warding off the enemy intrigues. They, will remove all the hurdles in the way of jehad operations, progress and peace. It must be said that in this regard the deteriorating condition of the "mullah" within the country and the fact that behind his religious mask
 the hands of imperialists are observed, have been helpful' to others (to defeat him) .
                   8
 NEWS ITEMS; In a joint operation 27 July, the Logar mujaheddin attacked the regime security posts using heavy arms killing 11 army personnel and injuring five of them seriously. Likewise the mujaheddin captured eight regime military posts in Logar 28 July.
 -  The Faryab mujaheddin attacked the communist centers of Surbazar,, Astana and Bab-e-Leghman west of Shireen Tagab district 1 August killing a member of communists and capturing 3000 of them with their arms.
 -  MIDIA, quoting its correspondent in Kabul, reports that the transportation of SCUD, 'Luna and Oregon missiles along with their launchers from the Soviet Union has been intensified recently. MIDIA1s Kabul correspondent, quoting informed circles, adds that lately the Russians have set up two logistics depots at Hairatan Port and Mazar-e-Sharif, each occupying 50 acres of land.
                  11
 EDITORIAL: "The  world of Islam in the
 mirror of Islamic Conference":    While
 condemning the conference conservative attitude vis-a-vis the Islamic world problems particularly that of Afghanistan issue, the editorial writes:   Regarding Afghanistan that
 which ought to be condemned is that the conference participants, too like the Western imperialism, called for broad based government and thus synchronized their voices with that of the enemies of Islam. We are at a loss to understand as to why Islamic foreign ministers replaced "Islamic government"
213
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 with "broad-based government1' since this is the only desire of our martyrs' lovers nation. Regarding this issue the West may be acting deliberately or it may be based on misunderstanding but the OIC ministers as Muslims are well aware of this great desire that/ God willing, the Afghan Muslim nation by dint of their great sacrifices will perpetuate it till the final stage. We are sympathetically imploring that if the Muslim countries even during their such annual sessions cannot speak out their difficulties seriously, in that case they will be further shorn out of their status and will pave the way for further audacity by the imperialist forces and the responsibility of its. unsavory consequences will again fall squarely on their shoulders.
                  13
 REPORT: A delegation, comprising jehad
 parties, including Mawlawi Mohammed Nabi Mohammadi, leader of HEIA, Ayatullah Mohseni, leader of HEI, Engineer Qutbuddin Helal of HIA (Hekmatyar), Mohammad Ayub of JIA, Rahimullah Mujaddedi of NLFA, Rahim Warddajc of' NIFA and Akhlaqi of HWIA met 12 August with the Russian delegation led by Kozerev, Deputy Foreign Minister and in-charge of the Afghan desk in Russian Foreign Ministry. In his introductory remarks, Mawlawi Mohammadi observed: We are glad to talk to those who happen to be the other side to our case. On the other hand we feel unhappy that relations between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union were marred by Russian invasion of Afghanistan 12 years ago which turned our country into a blood-bath. The USSR was deceived by handful of . people whose influence nationwide is even less than 2%, However, it is gdod that our neighbor, after a few years, realized its mistake and came to know the facts, and has now decided to solve the issue. In fact it was this minority which contributed to the deterioration of Afghan-Russo
 relations. This minority was virtually imposed on our nation and the nation declared (jehad) against them.
      The leader of Russ.ian delegation Kozerev said:   We are thankful to meet
 you, mujaheddin, personally for the first time. I totally agree with you that the USSR and Afghanistan were friendly countries with historical ties between them and whatever happened afterwards in their ^relations was a mistake. It is a reality that we have entered Afghanistan and caused killings and bloodshed. Now we confese these facts and in time realized our mistake and tried to correct our error. Three years ago we ordered our troops out of Afghanistan. However, we do not agree-to’ your claim of imposing the Kabul regime. Kabul regime's shape or complexion is of no importance to us but what is of importance is tl)© existence of the independent Islamic Afghanistan with good relations with us. We regret the perpetuation of criminal acts and lootings. Actually, our assistance to Afghanistan was misused and Gorbachev has also acknowledged this historical blunder.
1     Mawalawi  Mohmmadi responded:   Our
 religion says conciliation is good and if the other side is inclined towards it then you also tilt towards it, and trust in God Almighty. Nevertheless, we are not ready for reconciliation with
•Najib's regime since it is our nation's murderer.
      Eng. Helal observed:    There were
 two basic points to the Afghan jehad (1) The Russian forces' interference in our country and (2) the regime's
' imposition by dint of bayonets on our nation. As such, for the restoration of permanent and just peace in Afghanistan first of all the war symptoms must be removed. From amongst the two basic factors only one factor i.e. the puppet Kabul imposed regime is still in place which ought to be removed. Regarding
214
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991     filfllMN Jf
VOL. 4 NO.4
 the Afghanistan issue, you ought to consult and negotiate with mujaheddin always because; in our opinion# the Kabul regime is not a genuine party to the case. You ought to prove practically your desire for peace in Afghanistan and in the first step towards this direction is withholding of Soviet military and econoftiic assistance to the Kabul regime. You said that Gorbachev has also acknowledged the troops' dispatch to Afghanistan as a blunder. As such we arb at a loss to understand that inspite of acknowledgement of this blunder, you do not stop assisting the regime which is a direct outcome of this aggression.
      Mohseni said:  Notwithstanding our
 fractional differences we are agreed on all the points discussed by the other in this meeting. Difference of color, race, language and religion does not influence our basic objectives. As far as the ouster of Kabul regime and the establishment of an Islamic government are concerned, we all in One voice support that and we cannot deviate from the fundamental objectives of the revolution, the object of enemity between you and us is the Kabul regime. It will be better if you applied presteroika in Russia to Afghanistan as well. We assure you that in future we shall live as two neighbourly nations. We are happy with changes in Russia and this process is of importance in the improvement of our relations, provided you acknowledge the realities..
           i
      Kozerev observed:    Regarding  the
 ouster of Najib regime from the political scene I repeat once again that,from our point of view, holding of free and cjemocratic elections can solve the problem. If we arrange such conditions then we*' can replace the present regime with another one. Under no circumstances the Najib regime shall remain. With pressure tactics we cannot
 dismiss' Najib's regime. We interfered, once in Afghanistan and do not want to repeat it. We are ready to stop aiding the regime provided they are stopped from elsewhere too. Few moments earlier I attended a gathering where one of our soldiers was freed. We are obliged to your friendly gestures and in case all of our prisoners are 'released the Russians will not forget this feeling and this gesture will go a long way towards the resolution of the case. ,
      Engineer Ayub observed:   We too,
 like you, are in favor of elections but with the presence of Kabul regime elections are not possible. The fall of Kabul regime, restoration of peace, rehabilitation of refugees and the establishment of an Islamic interim government are the conditions which pave the way for elections. Regarding the release of POWs, it must be said, that the prisoners' topic is part of. the collective case of Afghanistan. We have taken your prisoners in the battle field but you have rounded our men from their homes and work places and imprisoned them. Even now there are
 12.000  Afghan children in Russian prisons and so far you have not released even one of them.
      Kozerev denied the presence of
 12.000  prisoners in Russia but his interpreter, by . way of contradicting Kozerev, lost -his temper and supported the mujaheddin claim.
                 18
 REPORT:    Engineer Hekmatyar from
 inside the country, has given details of HIA plan for toppling the Kabul regime, and establishment of future Afghan government. The plan says:
 A: Kabul ruling regime must relinquish the power unconditionally.
 B:  On no account there will be any
 215
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
 dialogue with. Najib and his band of killers and traitors regarding the future of Afghanistan.
 C:  The present government should
 vacate its seat in favor of an interim administration.
 D:  The interim government should be
 comprized of persons acceptable to mujaheddin. There would not be any room for Najib, his henchmen or Zaher Shah in the interim government.
 E:  Regarding the organization of the
 interim authority; including its staff, there ought to be understanding and agreement among mujaheddin prior to the fall of the regime.
 F:\During six montns, under the supervision of this interim administration, elections should be held in accordance with Islamic principles and the power transferred to the elected Islamic government. It ought to be declared in clear and un-equivocal terms that foreign related elements, with anti-Islamic beliefs and shameful past and their hands being smeared with the Afghan blood, have cooperated with apostate and corrupt governments and are committed to afiti-Islamic factions, shall neither be acceptable in the interim government nor the post interim government.
      Praise be to God Almighty that HIA has embarked on reaching understanding with other groups and in this connection has invited them towards unity, cooperation and joint operations.
                                               20
 NEWS ITEM:   Captain Amanullah reports
 f?rom Maidan-Wardak Province that the
  v;      .
 entire Muslims of Maidan center are busy fighting the atheist regime forces■ since last two months. During this period, owing to merciless bombardment of the atheist regime, 7,500 families
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 have migrated, their property being looted and homes demolished. The report adds, in the course of these months of severe fighting, 50 mujaheddin were martyred and 40 wounded. In the* same period 2,500 of the enemy *were killed.
                 22
 DECLARATIONS: The declaration of Kunar
 province jehad. Amir: The HlA mujaheddin have recaptured their centers in Kunar and pushed back Jamil-ur-Rahman groups from these areas. Jamil-ur-Rahman turned down the HIA’s reasonable proposals for peace and reconciliation and resorted to fighting. Consequently he met with this fate. Now whatever treatment which is being meted out to Jamil-ur-Rahman group in Kunar is the result of his doing and he will, be responsible for it. Even how we are open to peace and conciliation and hate fighting. We want the establishment of a singular authority, maintenance of peace and the imposition of Shariat in Kunar and wish that such an atmosphere be created. We declare once again that in no corner of Afghanistan the imposition of authority and force shall be tolerated and will continue our jehad till the time every one at any level gets the right to choose the leadership. No one shall be able to impose a government in any area of Afghanistan. We shall always stand-by our oppressed people and face the rulers who glorify themselves and belittle the people.
    Declaration of the Department of Political Affairs pertaining to the tripartite Tehran conference:      HIA
 will participate in Tehran conference provided the following terms are fulfilled:
 1. According to the earlier agreement in Islamabad tripartite conference, in the first place jehad groups must come to an agreement as a single party, .for
216
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         fifCIIWIJIHflU             VOL. 4  N0.4
 resolution of the Afghanistan case and then the tripartite conference be convened.
 2. All effective parties including the Islamic Coalition Council, be invited to the conference,
 3. In regard to the composition of participating members to the conference, effective parties should make a decision.
 4. The leader of Afghan delegation should .be elected after the agreement among effective parties.
 5.   Only the mujaheddin should represent the Afghan nation and decide on a singular stance. Afterwards the friendly neighboring countries will uphold and emphasize their stand.
 6.   Prior to convening of the conference, Iran should reopen the offices of those parties it had closed down and cancel the special limitations and privilages of some of the parties.
                                               25
 REPORT: The following is a roundup of
 the opinion of mujaheddin leaders in relation to the latest developments in Russia:  While expressing his concern
 over the take-over of power , by Communist, hardliners in Russia, the AIG President, Professor Sebghatullah mujaddedi observed;, We hope that the new Soviet leadership will favor the resolution of the Afghanistan problem and the direct talks * initiated'between Russia and mujaheddin will lead to the political solution of the Afghan case. He said that Gorbachev created a republican and democratic spirit in his country and in the mujaheddin-Soviet direct talks adopted a positive policy. He remarked that these changes will not dampen the jehad determination of the .Afghans and tliey will continue their jehad till the . attainment of their
 goal.
 - Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, HIA leader in relation to the recent Russian coup observed' that they contribute to the solidarity among the Afghan mujaheddin all the more. He added that fresh upheaval iris Russia will perpetuate the regime return to communism and strengthen Marxism in Russia. These changes    have   positive
 effects on Afghanistan jehad and mujaheddin will    get,  all the more,
 united against     the  Kabul   regime,
 because" Gorbachev coupled with the US were blocking       the  way      to the
 strengthening of Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    Professor Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister and IIA leader, while welcoming Gorbache's removal and the change in the Russian system observed that Russia and the US both, jointly, stood in the way of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan but now both of these super powers will not be having a joint position in this direction. The communism return to Russia and power reposed in a special wing is not in the interest of Russia. He said after the changes in Russia, the US will reconsider its policy towards Afghanistan since the US had kept its distance from the mujaheddin to apease the Russians.
      Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA, while describing the Gorbachev dismissal as Russia's internal affair said, "We neither uphold nor reject this process". He pointed out to the, new Russian leadership that with putting an end to the puppet regime it should open up fresh chapter between’ Moscow and Kabul.
    Engineer GulbUddin Hekmatyar, HIA leader, said, "the new change in Russia is not an unexpected process. Gorbachev's apologetic spirit contributed to his dismissal. Regarding the
217
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991   flfllllllN J[HMI                 VOL. 4  NO. 4
.............................. hi , niiwwwwui
Afghanistan case, Gorbachev, in complicity with Washington, wanted to adopt a joint position case and Gorbachev's    ignominous     dealings
vis-a-vis the West paved the way to his downfall". Engineer Hekmatyar added, it is better for the new Russian leadership that instead of cooperating with the West, establish its relations with Islamic countries and the Third World on the basis of justice and fair-play .
                  27
REPORT: Two ANA newsment visited Kunar
25 August and called on Kashmir Khan, General commanding officer of the battle with Salafis.        They have
reported as Kashmir Khan was in command of the battlefield therefore he was left with very little time for communicating with commanders and issuing instructions, even our queries used to receive incomplete and broken responses. Once when we asked him for an interview he said:    "It will be
better that God Almighty conferred freedom on1 the entire of Kunar then we shall have long, detailed interview." Regarding the achievements he said, "starting from Kunar there is Dara Noor and Noorgul, there is district Chauki or Sarkani and Narang upto Salarbagh, all the areas have been liberated from the Salafis hegemony. On the other hand HIA mujaheddin have reached from Shigal to Chaghasarai and the plan for operation on Chaghasarai is in the final stage. He . said the main reason for the' defeat of the Salafis was due to its followers who do not profess the Salafi creed but are only mercenaries. It is clear that friendship based on belief and religion differs grossly from that bought by money.
                  29
NEWS ITEMS:   The mujaheddin dispatch
from Kunar province says that after the downfall of the atheist regime, where.
 the petty party of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman had started disarming other organizations, came to an end with the defeat of this very fanatic faction. The HIA mujaheddin punished this fanatic faction for their misdeeds and captured Asadabad, the center of Kunar- province, and seized a sizeable quantity of heavy and light weapons. The Arabs who, unknowingly and without knowledge, had participated in the operations of this fanatic group, were handed over to the Saudi Embassy in Islamabad.
   The atheist Kabul regime released the editor of a magazines after 18 day imprisonment. He was found guilty of publishing parts of Hekmatyars' speech and Was detained. Ghulam Sakhi Ghairat,
,editor-in-chief of Azadi magazine was sentenced to one year imprisonment by a special court but was released on bail. Ghairat had condemned the verdict calling it unjustified. He told Reuter that he was not regretful of what he had done and was against all kinds of limitations against the press freedom. He said now it is upto the Minister of Information- and Culture to decide whether this fortnightly magazine be allowed to appear or not. He said that t he was subjected to solitary confinement with no contact with the outside. After the warning issued by the Chairman of Afghanistan Writers Union to the effect that in case the government did not release him the case would be referred to "International Committee on Human Ri'ghts", it was then that Ghairat was released.
   SEPTEMBER
              1
 MESSAGE: Brother Hekmatyar, the Amir of HIA in a message from the interior of the country., has expressed his deep sorrow over the tragic martyrdom of Mujahed Brpther Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Ra-
 I
218
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 hman..                          '
     /^Engineer Hekmatyar has said that the "un-expected martyrdom of Jamil-ur-Rahman is a plot hatched by the same elements or hands who want to mar the mujaheddin harmony with their satanic aims and, by resorting to such a treacherous plot, accelerate dissention and disunity among mujaheddin ranks. This event has specially taken place at the time when the HI A and the Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman group had decided that in relation to the difficulties in the Kunar province, delegations should go to the interior and solve the dispute; and for achieving this objective a delegation had already been sent to Kunar to implement a peace treaty.
      Brother Hekmatyar at the conclusion of his message has prayed for the soul of Mawlawi Saheb and has asked forgiveness for him and requested his family and friends to forebear this event.
      The Executive Council of the HIA in a message on this occasion has said: We have been informed with the sorrow that Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman, Amir of. Jamaat-e-Daawat-wal-Quran-wal-Sunnat,  :
 was martyred 30 August. The HIA shares this sorrow entirely. Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman was for a long time a member of the Executive Council of the HIA and ushered the jehad against communism in the Kunar province. The HIA considers his martyrdm as a big loss to the Afghanistan jehad. Lately peace had been worked out between the HIA and Mawlawi Saheb by a delegation accepted by both sides. May God grant the mar-* tyred Mawlawi Saheb Paradise and his family patience and forebearance".
                    3
 NEWS ITEM: The Pakistan Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, told newsman at Quetta Airport, in solving the ’Afghanistan
 issue Russian help was needed. We have had contacts with Russian readers and it is hoped that they will help in efforts being exerted for solving this issue.
                10
 REPORT: Mawlawi Abdul Rahim Rahmat,
 Head of the HIA Secretariat, delivered a valuable speech 6 September in the Nasrat Maina Congregation Mosque before the Friday prayers. In regard to a recent article appearing in the Kayhan International of Iran 28 August about the assassination of Brother Hekmatyar, the mujahid Amir of HIA, he said we are urging the government of Iran to provide explanation in this regard through its own media and it. should also regret its action and let others know about it through world media. Mawlawi Rahmat added one who is not eligible from the Shariat point of view for execution and some one resorts to his assassination without any legal grounds, God Almighty has said that the (place of such persons is in the Hell which is a yery bad place. He said those who fail to issue verdict according to what has been revealed by God have been termed by Almighty God as oppressors, evil doers and infidels. The Head of the Secretariat condemned the publishing of such an evil news.
      At the end of his remarks he said the newspaper which has published this news items should be closed down and also, if the government of Iran is not involved in this evil act, it should place on trial those involved in it and let the world know about it through the media.
                12
 REPORT: A free discussion meeting was
 held in the Umma library courtyard 7 September about the evaluation of recent political events.
219
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
      Dr. Abdul Hai spokesman of the JIA told the meeting, for the sake of saving the Islamic revolution from the danger of annihilation, it is better for us to accept a neutral government.
      Mohammad Yasir, the Chairman of the Political Affairs Committee of the IIA, said the news relating to the terror of Brother Hekmatyar published in the Kayhan International daily of Tehran is condemned by us.
      Jibraeli, spokesmen of the Coalition Council, also said in this connection that the abusive article published in Kayhan about Hekmatyar is a condemnable and illogical act from^ our point of view.
      Eng; Qutbuddin Helal, Chairman pf the Political Committee of the HIA (Hekmatyar) said the Hezb has established a joint committee with the' JIA for carrying out military operations.
                   15
 INTERVIEW: Engineer Hekmatyar, leader
 of the HIA, in a radio interview has said it is not possible to either hold talks with Najib, or form with him a coalition government or to reach with him an understanding about the future of Afghanistan. "I am waiting for his toppling in the hands of mujaheddin every moment."
      He said the Hezb alternative is that the Najib regime should be toppled, an interim government substitute him and then, through election, power should be handed to an elected government. Even if the regime is toppled by the HIA, we will announce an interim government. Any collusion against jehad, from any quarter, will be opposed by the Hezb-e-Islami.
      In regard to rumors about the coup in Kabul he said, the Hezb will announce its position in this regard
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 at the time when such coup is staged. The Hezb will declare unequivocally its position in regard to any change» our •position is clear: This regime must be toppled! we want nothing less. Our people should be afforded the opportunity to establish an* Islamic government through elections and to handover power to a person whom we trust. We cannot accept an imposed government by any quarter at any level, whether it is at the village level, at the level of a province or the country as a whole.
     Shahid
                              JULY
             9
 REPORT: During a meeting with tribal
 heads in Jehad University 7 June, Engineer Hekmatyar said, "Islam is our national and tribal. identity and if Islam does not unify us then nothing else can bring us together. The days of the ignominious Najib regime are numbered and, God willing, jehad is on the threshold of its final victory".
 - Engineer Shahadatyar, HIA Commander, told the audience in Yangi Qala after Eidul-Adha prayers that they should try their best to bring about unity and solidarity in the ranks of the mujaheddin throughout their townships, villages and districts.
   After evaluating the military and political situation of 55 days of war resulting in the capture of four districts by the valiant mujaheddin he observed, "the time has come now that everyone of you look after the Security of your villages and district and cooperate in the application of Islamic discipline and order and the maintenance of peace". .
220
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991          MAN JIHflfl               VOL. 4 NO. 4
          AUGUST 6
REPORT:  Engineer  Hekmatyar, leader of,
HIA, received the Swiss Foreign Minister, Klaus Jacobi 4 July and discussed with him the Afghanistan issue. Referring to the meeting in Nusrat Maina 5 July Hekmatyar, said, "I told the Swiss Foreign Minister, that dialogue or formation of coilition with Na jib was impossible. In the presence of Najib there could be no cease-fire. No governments from outside could be imposed on our people, against their will. The Swiss Foreign Minister asked, 'what my reaction would be if Najib were replaced by an interim government? It seems, he said, that a number of persons who have a hand in jehad and also have important role are ready to accept the ex-King as the head of the interim-government', I told him that .1 should be grateful if he would, kindly, name an influential wing with a hand in jehad, popular with the nation and, at the same time, supporters of Zaher Shah. But as far as I know there is no such an influential wing in Afghanistan".
                                               25
NEWS ITEMS:    The Kunduz mujaheddin,
staged an attack, on Aljeen posts . in the center of the province 6 August killing two militiamen and capturing eight. .
-  Due to the severe air bombardment of the enemy 19 August on Badakhshan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces, more than 100 persons were martyred and 300 wounded. The majority of those killed and wounded include defenseless women, children and old folk.
-  On the Sarobi-Jalalabad highway, the mujaheddin, during 9-day operations,
 killed more than 400 military personnel of Kabul regime and wounded about 300 of them.
 - In Herat province, the mujaheddin, during three raids destroyed three enemy tanks.
                                  JUNE—JULY
 EDITORIAL: "Efforts for a political
 solution": Following the UN Secretary
 General's proposal regarding his plan for the political solution of the Afghan problem and the positive response from the neighbouring countries, fresh efforts are being exerted by all parties concerned to find a solution to this problem.
     The’ Islamic Republic of Iran, in the way of amending its external policy, has been advocating, since 18 months, political solution as the possible means to end the situation and to this end has tried to convince the jehad factions in general and some of the Iran based parties in particular, to accept its stand. Although these efforts did bring some changes in the structure of almost the majority of Iran based groups,nevertheless, its desired outcome remained elu-' sive as far as the political aims of Iran was concerned.
     Likewise Pakistan, Afghanistan's another neighbor, which has supported widely the cause of Afghan jehad for regional considerations and external threats,'had received assurance for its own security and had been pressured by foreign countries, specially the US, to exert efforts for a political solution of the Afghan problem. So Pakistan has been accelerating its efforts for political solution of the issue. Pakistan had earlier worked out j.a plan.
221
UULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         MMIJlHAfl                   VOL. 4 NO.4
for the establishment of a 28-member commission. This is a sign of Pakistan's concord with the UN Secretary General's plan. Pakistan is trying to usher mujaheddin agreement to the implementation of this process in line* with its own strategy.
      Since their withdrawal from Afgha-histan, the Russians have been nourishing a thesis of their own aimed at maintaining their interests in Afghanistan taking into .consideration their long-drawn common frontiers with this country. They are of the opinion that their interest in Afghanistan will not be secured unless they are sure about the form of Afghan sovereignty in the future. Presently the US does not consider Russian role as a threat to her regional objectives and by extending such privileges to Moscow,' is promoting her own relations with Russia. On the other hand, the US is trying to contain Islamic advances in . the region and prevent its threat to the process of new polarization in the world. Therefore, the US-Soviet agreement in regard to the Afghanistan issue is genuine and both countries> insist on its implementation in accordance with a set policy and the UN five-point plan is a process which falls in line with this program.
,     Meanwhile,the Kabul puppet regime,
in its effort.s for survival, using the prevalent political circumstances and her past experiences, is once more trying to make the most by establishing her political existence under the name of a "one of the parties to the issue".
      With all said and done, the genuine side remains to hfe the mujaheddin who, indifferent to these circumstances and acting against the current, conditions, are trying to: maintain the. equilibrium in the military sector as well' as the jehad principles.
                                     ZAFAR 7-22 JULY
 EDITORIAL: "Watan Party disunity or
 step-by-step policy". The editorial,1 while recounting the inter communist party differences in Afghanistan, recalls that the concentration of former seasoned members and founders of the party in itself signifies the identity of views and unison among them on the point that the Watan Party must maintain itself under all circumstances. Regarding this, the editorial writes: In spite of external pressures, the step-by-step policy of Watan party has been able, in relation to the role of the party in the political life of the country, to attract some of the internal parties as well. The editorial concludes that political leaders must bear in mind that in the absence of a united leadership and ideological as well as pragmatic unity among them, the political future of the country will remain doubtful. The need of the hour at this perilous stage calls for endurance and political sagacity at the leadership level.
                                    AUGUST
 REPORT: The Hezbullah  jehad forces
 related to Hazrat-e-Mohammad Rasool-ui-Lah base and Martyr Noor Mohammad Gulran Front in an operation entered in the Tor Ghundi area of the Soviet side and theu ambushed enemy positions inside Afghanistan capturing a number of soldiers of the enemy forces as well as arms and ammunition, including 55 klashenkovs, two Greneov machine-guns, two rockets  and two vehicles.  The
 report adds that the mujaheddin safely returned to  their base after their
 successful  operation.  Also   the
 mujaheddin encountered an enemy force 15 August in Babaji west of Herat city injuring 15 enemy personnel.
 * Dr. Ashraf Ghaoi» Professor at John
222
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991  A (till AN JIHAD                   VOL. 4 NO.4
 Hopkins University of the USA# in an interview with the VOA has said, the territorial integrity of Afghanistan is in danger. He has said, the first point is that the Soviet Union as a Super Power and at the same time established on the basis of Marxism, Leninism and proletariat dictatorship, no longer exists     as such. The  second point is
 that today there is no possibility for the siame kind of territorial unity of the Soviet Union   as before.  Today the
 Soviet    Union is no   longer the same
 Soviet   Union and it   is not .a united
 country; rather it is a political mass facing disintegration. He said, in the face of current events in the Soviet Union, it is being concluded that the Islamic identity of Afghanistan iis not dn danger because the center of atheism
 and infidelity in our neighborhood is disintegrating. However, the territorial integrity of Afghanistan is facing acute danger in the face of these changes because in addition to the present neighbors who are having hands over the destipy of our people, new neighbors will emerge which my cause
 new complications. Therefore, it is important for all the Afghans to pay attention to these events and to keep
 Afghanistan intact in its present form
                                                    l
 by exerting intensive efforts for solving the Afghanistan issue through political means. So far the UN Secretary General's proposal in regard to the solution of the Afghanistan problem has been encouraging and we should pay attention to it.
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991 MUUMIIH vol«4 no.4 1 
                                          
  CHRONOLOGY,
AFGHAN EVENTS
JULY-SEPTEMBER 1991
224
 JULV-SmCMUCK. 1991    AlllHANJIHAD             VOL.4 NO.4
         CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
 JULY-SEPTEMBER 1991
« The Chief of JIA. and AIG Reconstruction Minister, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, has said in an interview "we oppose extremist policies and at the same time reject moves that undermine the political image and military strength of the mujaheddin". Referring, to talks between Pakistan and Iran-based Afghans on the political settlement of the Afghan problem he said that Iran-based mujaheddin- were interested in a practical program which was a positive sign and he was hopeful about a compromise between them in the near future. (NT)
- President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan told a six-member delegation of Iran-based HWIA 30 June in Islamabad that it was the responsibility of the mujaheddin leaders to work for an early political solution of the problem to restore the independent and non-aligned character of Afghanistan and bring peace to that country. He hoped that. Afghan mujaheddin ' parties would cooperate with the UN Secretary General's efforts and promote a consensus towards a peaceful settlement of the issue. (PT)
* The Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmat-yar, has said that a Pakistani politi-
 cian who lost the confidence of the Kabul rulers conveyed to him, through a friend, that he carried a message for him. This politician met him at his residence and it transpired that he was trying for a meeting between Afghan mujaheddin's leadership and the Kabul regime president Najibullah so as to restore his lost confidence. "I plainly told him that talks with Najibullah or a coalition with him was out of question and Najibullah will have to relinquish his charge", Hekmatyar said. This politician, he said, agreed that a delegation led by him, will apprise Najibullah. about it* (NWT)
 -  The UN Secretary General's special
 envoy for Afghanistan, Berion. Sevan, briefed the Kabul regime Prime Minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, in Kabul •29 June about the outcome of his recent contacts with the parties involved and response of the regional countries to the five-point UN formula. The Kabul regime Premier     assured    him   full
 cooperation of the regime. Kabul regime Foreign Minister also assured full cooperation to Benon Sevan for his mission. (MLM)
 -  The visiting German Deputy Defense
 Minister, Willy   Wimmer, during    his
 meeting with the Pakistan National Assembly Speaker, Gohar Ayub Khan, at Parliament House   Islamabad  30 June,
 sard that his     country    did   have
 similarity of views with Pakistan on
225
JULY-SEPTEMOER, 1991
 regional issues like Kashmir and Afghanistan, and it would be in the best interest of the people in the region if these issues were solved amicably, (PT)
 " Talking to newsmen in Peshawar 30 June the ANP Chief, Khan Abdul Wall Khan, has suggested early acceptance of UN Secretary General's five-point formula and said that if the formula was not adopted, the UN would press the world to stop assistance to the Afghan refugees as well as the mujaheddin. He said that the Government should get rid of the burden of 3.2 million Afghans and end the i2-year long undeclared war through political means. He said with the support of • the mujaheddin, anti-social elements easily obtained arms which are later on used for killing innocent citizens. He said the Afghan problem gifted the country and its people with modern and sophisticated weapons which improved the standard of crimes in the country.
      Khan Abdul Wali Khan said that apart from two persons all resistance leaders preferred political settlement. He said that he did not see.' peace in Afghanistan after the removal of Najibuilah . If Najib was assured of peace and tranquility in Afghanistan, he would then be ready to quit, he said. (NTN)
 - The Afghan mujaheddin have foiled another attempt by the Kabul regime to carry Soviet supplies to the besieged city ofr Kandahar 22 June. Three tanks and armored vehicles of the Kabul forces were destroyed and 11 troops killed. Two mujaheddin were also killed and six seriously-injured. (PT)
           f
 - The Afghan mujaheddin repulsed an attack 23 June by the Kabul regime forces in Sayed Karam district, Paktia, destroying five tanks and 12 military vehicles, killing those on board.
 VOL. 4 no.4
 Mujaheddin also captured three jeeps and one supply vehicle loaded with foodstuff. No casualty was suffered by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime fired four SCUD missiles over mujaheddin bases in Ismail Khan area of Khost 25 June, killing 13 mujaheddin and injuring nine. Ten local houses were also destroyed. (PT)
 A The Kabul regime forces', guided by Soviet advisors, are engaged in attacks from three sides in Herat in an attempt to restore the communication route blocked by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin destroyed two armored vehicles and three tanks killing, or injuring 27 Kabul regime troops. Three mujaheddin were also killed. Twelve Kabul troops joined the ranks of the mujaheddin. (PT)
 - Ranking UN officials say that poppy plantation in areas .under the mujaheddin control, including Helmand province, is increasing, though it had deminished largely in the latter province last year. (BBCPS)
 " A Swiss delegation led by Klaus Jacobi, the Foreign Minister, has arrived for a three-day visit to Kabul. Their efforts are aimed at finding a solution to the civil war in Afghanistan. Eversince the Soviet invasion of the country it is the first time that a western foreign minister is visiting Afghanistan. The Swiss Foreign Minister is trying to play an effective role in bringing the warring parties around the conference table. (BBCFS)
                  2
   Talks between Tehran and Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders have failed due to their differences over the distribution of seats in the interim government. The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi refused to entertain, the demand for at least five
226
 JULY-SEPTEMBER*. 1991   fllflllllN JMIlfl                 VOL,  4 NO.4
 seats by the Iran-based mujaheddin leaders. They are being offered three seats which their leader Hujjatul Islam Rahmatullah Murtazavi has refused to accept. However,he assured Sebghatullah Mujaddedi that he will further negotiate with them following consultations with the leaders of the eight parties based in Tehran. Meanwhile, Mawlawi Younus Khales was of the opinion that the Iran-based mujaheddin "should not be given any representation in the government". (NTN)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 1 July at the end of his delegation's visit to Pakistan, the Chief of , Iran-based HWIA, Rahmatullah Murtazavi, said we accept in principle the UN formula but we want to add something to this proposal. He said, "we will never sit with Najib as proposed in the UN formula". About the return of Zaher Shah he said there was no place for him in Afghanistan. The only unsettled issue between the Iran and Pakistan-based Afghan mujaheddin parties is the number of seats in the commission of all parties, he said. (MLM)
 *  The AIG has accepted four of the five points announced by the UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue. A MIDIA commentary said in Peshawar 1 July that the special representative of the UN Secretary General, Benon Sevan, was in Peshawar meeting the resistance leaders urging them not to express any opposition to the plan when the Secretary General's announcement was made. (MLM)
 *  Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 1 July the UN Secretary General's special representative for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, said a vast majority of Afghans supported a broad-based government for Afghanistan. He said that developments in Europe and Gulf, natural disasters
 and environmental issues had attracted the donors more than the Afghan problem. He said that the UN was the only organization which had contacts with all the Afghan groups. (NTN)
 * VOA has quoted the US Ambassador to •> the Afghan mujaheddin, Peter Tomsen, as saying that the UN plan for Afghanistan should be seen like Angola operation. There was difference between the issues of Angola and Afghanistan but the UN proposal on Afghanistan carried some points of Angola plan. Peter Tomsen said the mujaheddin generally had reacted cautiously to the UN proposal because they did not fully understand the details. He said he had convinced the Afghans to support the UN proposal and to use it to their best advantage. (PT)
 " The Afghan mujaheddin have repulsed a Kabul regime attack on their positions in Zendajan, Herat, killing 17 militiamen and soldiers and injuring 12. They also destroyed three tanks and two other vehicles. Three mujaheddin were injured in the operations (date not given). In Nangarhar the mujaheddin captured four regime posts and destroyed some others, killing many militiamen and forcing the rest to run away leaving behind a tank. A mujahed was also killed in the fighting (date not given). In retaliation the AAF severely bombed the residential areas in the outskirts of Jalalabad. (PT)
 - Seven regime militiamen were killed and some injured in mujaheddin's attack on Safid Khak, Wardak, 27 June. Two tanks were also set ablaze. In another attack in the same area, 26 June, two tanks were destroyed, by the mujaheddin killing those on board. Heavy losses were also suffered by the regime, two mujaheddin were killed in the operations. (NTN)
 " According to a mujaheddin commander
227
 JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1991 llflllllll JtHAfl                VOL- 4  NO-4
 the mujaheddin attack on Jalalabad- 29 June was foiled by the Kabul regime troops. The mujaheddin wanted to' hit the regime tanks parked on the main Torkham-Jalalabad road near Samarkhel. The Kabul regime tanks hit the mujaheddin’s vehicles in the area .which created problems for them, he said. He said that a number of mujaheddin received injuries as • a result of land mines planted by both the mujaheddin and Najib troops around Samarkhel Garrison. The attack, he said, was initiated under the decision of mujaheddin's joint Council. Meanwhile, Al-Bunyan reported that the mujaheddin destroyed one tank and some armored cars in their attack on security belt of Kabul City by long-range missiles 30 June. Mujaheddin also repulsed a regime attack on Khanabad, Kunduz. (NTN)
 ** The 28-member commission set up for preparing a formula acceptable to both Iran and Pakistan-based Afghan mujaheddin parties for a solution of the Afghanistan problem, has asked all the Afghan mujaheddin parties to send their respective formulas to the commission. A special committee has also been set up to collect the formulas and submit its report on the agreed points within a week. (NWT)
 *    The resistance forces are endeavoring to stop the armed conflicts which have erupted between different mujaheddin groups in Helmand and Kandahar provinces. Fighting broke out between the mujaheddin group of Mula Naqeeb Akhunzadeh (JIA) and that of Commander Asadullah ‘ (HIA-Hekmatyar) 28 June. On the basis of a previous understanding, a strong mujaheddin force, under Commander Mohammad Rasool (HEIA) has arrived in Kandahar in support Of Mula Naqeeb Akhundzadeh. (VOADS)
 *  Prof. Asghar, chief of the National Salvation Front of Afghanistan, has met: with the Swiss Foreign Minister who is currently visiting Kabul. Prof. Asghar
 said later, "whatever proposal the Minister may have, will increase the role of the former King in securing a political solution for the Afghan problem". He added that the NSFA, which includes five former ministers in its membership, believes that Zaher Shah is the only personality who is trusted by the majority of the Afghans. (BBCFS)
 - The Kabul regime has promoted Brigadier Khanzada Katawazi to the General rank. He is the son of Amir Malik. (RA)
                  3
    Dr. Farooq Azam told • a press conference in Peshawar 2 July that he had resigned from both the posts as Education Minister and Assistant Election Commissioner of the AIG over the sudden stoppage of the ongoing election process inside Afghanistan after bilateral understanding between:, AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Chief Of NIFA, Gailani, in clear violation of the AIG mandate. He said the AIG extended its tenure to hold elections but even then it failed to do so. (PT)
 ** During his meeting with Afghan Consul in Peshawar 2 July Salim Akbar Afridi, President of Pak-Afghan Friendship Association, NWFP, reaffirmed his association’s stance that the Afghan problem could be resolved through peaceful and political means and both the Kabul regime and' Pakistani rulers should accelerate efforts for resolving the problem in the light of UN Secretary General's peace plan. He i-nformed the Afghan envoy that his organization fully supported the UN plan. (NTN)      *
 ” After his talks with a visiting high-level Swiss delegation in Kabul the Chief of the Afghan National Salvation Front, Prof., Asghar, has in-
228
JULY-SEPTEMBER . 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 an interview with the BBC said if the Swiss, delegation succeeded in the process of seeking a solution to the Afghan problem it would strengthen the role of former Afghan Monarch Zaher Shah. Meanwhile, the Swiss Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, who leads the delegation, has said every one should give concessions in order to seek a solution to the Afghan issue. He said that Switzerland would try to bring as many Afghans to the negotiating table as possible. (PT)
 .* of the 310 mujaheddin who were sent to the Gulf, 271 returned from Saudi Arabia to Pakistan 2 July. They were warmly received by the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and other key ranking figures of the AIG. The remaining mujaheddin were charged by the Saudi officials for! selling arms and were shifted .to'*Pakistan a month before. (NTN)
  " Pre-empting a Kabul regime attack on the mujaheddin positions at Samar Khail and the adjoining areas in Nangarhar province, the mujaheddin rocked the regime posts with heavy artillery and smashed all the security posts upto the eastern belt of Jalalabad city killing 100 regime personnel,, including high-ranking military officials and destroying three tanks. The operation was supervised by. the Shoora of' , Commanders of all the seven major political parties. The mujaheddin also attacked regime buildings and military installations in Jalalabad city with rockets causing large scale, destruction to the regime forces.. The wife of Nangarhar Governor was .also reportedly injured in the rocket fires. Six mujaheddin were injured in the operations. In retaliation, the Kabul regime warplanes heavily bombed civilian areas right from Gardi Kas to Pul-e-Saracha resulting in large-scale human and material losses to the locals.   (PT)
 - The Afghan mujaheddin have shot down a Kabul regime military helicopter and destroyed two military transport vehicles in Sarjangal area of Herat recently. In retaliation the AAF bombed the area and as a result 14 civilians were injured and a number of houses were destroyed. (MLM),
 *  The President of Afghan Friendship Association has said in a press statement 2 July that it was proved the Afghan problem would be solved through peaceful negotiations and not by means of force, which was also admitted by some resistance leaders. (PT)
 •» The famous Jehadi poet . of Badakhshan,. • Barat Mohammad Sowda, expired in Peshawar 1 July. The deceased earned fame' because of his freedom inspiring poetry published under the title "Nawa-i-Inqilab" (Voice of Revolution). (PT)
 *   Mujaheddin sources report from
 Quetta that the AAF raided Shahjoy district, Zabul, 30 June inflicting serious damage on the town marketplace. There has been no news of any casualties among the mujaheddin. The Kabul regime air force has also straffed the Zendajan district, Herat, in a bid to recapture the Herat-Islaru Qala road. The sources add that Kabul regime has sighed a contract with the Iranian government for the purchase of
 oil.  The Kabul regime intends to transport the oil via this road. It is also for this reason that        it    has
  undertaken to establish a number of military posts along the road. (VOAPS)
  *  Sayyed Sulaiman     Gailani, a NIFA
  Commander, says that the Kabul regime air force raided the Sardeh district, Ghazni, 29 June.      According  to the
  report the mujaheddin supply line crosses this district. (VOAPS)
  *  The Swiss Foreign Minister Klaus
  Jacobi has stated      in Kabul that the
229
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 solution to the Afghan issue was' impossible without Najib, and a
 i                   i
 solution exclusively with him was also impossible. Observers believe his Statement is a clear indication of the mujaheddin insistence on Najib's resignation prior to any peace negotiations on the matter. It is expected the Swiss Foreign Minister will leave for Pakistan to discuss the issue with authorities in Islamabad before proceeding to Peshawar to meet the mujaheddin groups. (VOADS)
 * Dr. Farooq. Azam,tne AIG Minister of Education,blamed Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani during a press conference in Peshawar .for • creating obstacles for . general elections to be held in Afghanistan. He said, "the AIG could not achieve anything at all". He said it was impossible to continue working under the present conditions and charged Gailani, the leader of his party, for his close ties with the Kabul regime. The NIFA authorities say that Farooq Azam has embazzled a substantial amount of money. (BBCFS)
 * Talks between the various mujaheddin groups based in Pakistan and Iran ended without results. Rahmabullah Murtazavi, speaker of the Iran-based Shia mujaheddin alliance stated that they did not reach agreement on the number of seats allocated to the Shia mujaheddin in the mujaheddin commission of representatives. (BBCFS)
 *  Terming the activities of Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan . as "dangerous" ,\ Pzof.Sayyaf^ the AIG Premier,has stated that the UN plan instead of solving the
 •problem would further aggravate it. He said, in its present form the UN formula was against the jehad and Islam and an intervention in the internal affairs of the country. (VOAP.S)
 - Commander Hussain Anwari from HIA
 (Mohseni) rejected the Kabul regime claims of recapturing Maidan area, Wardak Province. He said that the Kabul regime forces had only captured Sar-e-Pul and Durrani areas but fierce fighting was continuing in which the regime lost 300 lives. "The mujaheddin casualties were 50 with another 20 injured" he said. (VOADS)
                  4
 * Switzerland's State Minister for Foreign Affairs, Klaus Jacobi, said in Islamabad 3 July the solution to the • Afghan war. could not completely disregard Kabul regime President Najib-uilah. "If the Afghans are not ready to speak with Najib, we will have someone as go-between from UN, and those who do not want such a meeting should stay out till they like", he said. "We have received petitions from about 700 persons inside Afghanistan demanding a peaceful solution", he said. The Swiss Minister said that in his talks with the Kabul regime President he discussed the possibility of the return of King Zaher Shah. (NTN)
 " In an interview with Prof. A Rasool Amin, Director WUFA in Rome 1 June, the former King Zaher Shah of Afghanistan has said the people in Afghanistan were looking for peace, stability and security in their country and, "I wish to serve my people in the capacity of an elder". His role, he said, would be to bring ceasefire and peace through negotiations and to hold elections through the assistance of UN agencies. He said that the UN was a neutral body whose Secretary General's efforts undoubtedly, would induce and encourage all the parties involved in finding out a genuine and acceptable solution to the crisis. He said, "the Afghans want me to play my role for peace, but. unfortunately I have been facing difficulties from outside. I have never been1
230
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
111
VOL. 4 NO.4
 disheartened in the face of such problems of which some have now been settled and the few remaining ones will be solved soon". About the charges that he did not take any active part in the crisis of Afghanistan, former King Zaher Shah said, "contrary to these rumors I have kept constant contacts with the political authorities of Pakistan, Iran, Arab countries, USA and others since the very beginning". He said some foreign authorities visited him in Rome and some even promised to pave the way for his role on the issue. (NTN)
 * A Philippine Muslim, 26-year old Sufyan, was killed and other three volunteers were wounded in bombing by Kabul regime planes in Nangarhar 1 July, Al-^Bunyan News Service reports. The four Philippine volunteers belonging to an Islamic movement of the Philippines, were part of an Afghan mujaheddin assault unit which had raided a, Kabul regime command post in Rodat district, Nangarhar', 1 July. In Qala-e-Nau,     Badghis, the mujaheddin
 destroyed four tanks and an army vehicle killing all those on board 1 July. Pour mujaheddin were also killed. In the same area 19 militiamen and soldiers were killed and 14 others injured by the mujaheddin 30 June. They destroyed one tank and an army vehicle killing all those on board. Four mujaheddin were injured in these operations. The same day the mujaheddin attacked the regime forces in Mahal Langar of Zendajan district, Herat province,, killing two soldiers and injuring four. (PT)
                     5
    Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the HI A leader, during his meeting with the Swiss Foreign Minister Klaus Jacobi is reported to have categorically rejected sharing power with former King Zaher Shah or Najibullah in any form. About
 the UN proposal Hekmatyar said that it was not workable because the significant item in the whole formula is what they call "Intra-Afghan Dialogue" by which they mean that Mujaheddin, Najib's party and Zaher Shah's supporters should talk to each other and bring about a coalition government. However, he suggested that the solution in Afghanistan could be modelled on the pattern of transfer of power in Bangladesh. Hekmatyar said that those who were advocating constitution of Loya Jirgah were infact afraid of the verdict of their nation because they had no foothold inside the country. He told the Swiss envoy that Loya Jirgah has never been a social 'or political institution in the history of Afghanistan and Loya Jirgahs were convened by the previous despotic regimes in which they assembled their henchmen in order to justify their rule.
      Meanwhile, in his first major contact with the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the Swiss envoy discussed for more than two hours the proposal of holding a meeting of prominent Afghans in a neutral country to deliberate the .possibility of a peaceful ; settlement. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi told the Swiss delegation that he was not averse to the idea provided the session was not attended by Najibullah or any of his nominees.
  (MLM)
  » Three hundred Kabul regime troops were killed in fierce fighting in Maidan province where fighting was still continuing. Fifty Afghan mujaheddin were also killed. (NTN)
  " Eighteen Kabul regime troops were killed and five tanks and 12 military vehicles were destroyed in their encounter with the mujaheddin at Gardaiz front in Paktia 30 June. Three tanks and a truck loaded with SCUD
231
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991          MAN lliHAO                VOL.  4 NO.4
 missile and supplies were captured by the mujaheddin. Five mujahedin were killed in the encounter. Meanwhile, three civilians were killed in SCUD missile attacks in Khost by the regime forces. (NWT)
 « The correspondent of the Frankfurter Rundschau says that he has witnessed the worthlessness of the Afghan currency in Afghanistan where the money is being transferred in bags like packages of food stuff. If anyone would like to count the bank-notes during shopping rounds, he would have to spare quite some time for this purpose. The prices have shot up substantially and there are many families who have not tasted meat for over a year. Another outcome of the present-day life in Afghanistan is corruption in the administration. No civil servant can live on the salary he gets, including a minister,     and    for  this    reason
 corruption is practiced on      a large
 •scale. (VOGDS)
 A Commander Esmail Khan reports from Herat that mujaheddin of his group attacked     Kabul regime positions at
 Pashtoon Zarghoon district 29 June capturing all the security posts in the area and liberating 10 villages. The following day they liberated another three village without any resistance on -the part of the regime forces. Seventy militiamen defected to the mujaheddin together with' arms.
      According to another report the Kabul regime forces again attacked the Zendajan district on the night of 29 June. Seventeen militiamen were killed in this     attack, three tanks  and two
 transport vehicles .were destroyed and three mujaheddin received minor injuries. (VOADS) *
 * In their operation on Gardaiz, Paktia, the mujaheddin killed 18 troops and totally destroyed 12 tanks. Three
 tanks and a truck-loaded with food supplies fell to the mujaheddin. Five mujahed were also martyred. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime has fired more SCUD missiles on four liberated Khost areas killing 20 persons, including children, and destroying 11 residences. (RP)
                  6
 ** Addressing a Juma congregation at Shamshatu, Peshawar 5 July,the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the only aim of the UN Secretary General's proposal was to start an intra-Afghan dialogue between the communists, the mujaheddin and those Afghans who fled to Europe and America. Mujaheddin, he said, are against the formation of a coalition government with communists and will never allow Najib or his supporters to participate in any future setup. He made it clear that any solution of the Afghan problem imposed from outside will be fully resisted and it will never crown with success. He said that the mujaheddin will never bow to any outside pressure, interference or temptation. He demanded the removal of Najib and handing over the reign of power to a transitional government. The transitional entity should hold elections in Afghanistan within a stipulated period and hand over power to an elected Islamic government. (PT)
 * The 28-member Mujaheddin Commission, appointed for evolving a joint consensus on the Afghan problem, has drafted a plan for the formation of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan for the transitional period. The Commission unanimously agreed that (1) Najib. and his party will have no place in the transitional Islamic Government; {2) Mujaheddin will not consider Najib arid Hezb-e-Watan as a party to the conflict as they are the assassins, of the nation. Mujaheddin will not participate in negotiations to which Najib or his
232
JULY-SEPTEM8ER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 party is invited and (3) Mujaheddin*' will not allow any ceasefire as long as Najib ruled in Kabul. Instead they will escalate jehad throughout the country. (MLM)
 - In a meeting at the Parliament House in Islamabad 3 July between Senate Chairman Wasim Sajjad and Swiss Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Klaus Jacobi, they said any proposed solution for the Afghan problem should enjoy mass support of the Afghan people themselves. (MLM)
 * Addressing a gathering of Afghan refugees in Karachi the local representative of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Ali Jan, has said the imperialistic forces, afraid of Islamic renaissance movement, have stepped up their conspiracies against Afghans so that they could replace Najibullah with some other man of their choice and give the impression as if the issue has been solved. He said this conspiracy will never be allowed, to succeed. (PT)
 " Over 50 Afghan civilians were killed in Wardak province while the Swiss Foreign Minister was engaged in meeting with Najib in Afghanistan. (PT)
 •» The Kabul regime war planes severely
                         /
 bombed and destroyed the central mosque, a number of shops and houses in the liberated district of Rodat, Nangarhar, 30 June. Two residents were also killed in the bombing. They also bombed the mujaheddin positions in Ahad Lycee, Amloky and Roghano's villages on the same dat^ killing a child and destroying a number of houses. Three people were killed in the raids and some others injured in Spin Jumat of the district. (PT)
 - The Afghaft mujaheddin destroyed three regime posts in Qala-e-Chenar area in Paghman district, near Kabul, 2 July killing five militiamen and
 injuring several others. They also captured one rocket launcher, four klashenkovs, a machine gun and a quantity of ammunition. In another operation near Maidan Shar, Wardak,30 June, three tanks were destroyed killing those on board. (PT)
 * In an unprecedented bombardment by the Kabul regime in the surrounding areas of Khanabad district, Kunduz, from July 1 to 4, tens of children, women and aged people were killed and a large number of houses destroyed. Hundreds of cattle were also killed and most of the crops were burnt.Meanwhile, two tanks were burnt, eight regime officers and militiamen were killed and four others captured alive by the mujaheddin in their operation ' against security posts in the Kunduz City 30 June.  (PT)
 » Klaus Jacobi, the Swiss Foreign Minister met a number of mujaheddin leaders,    commanders     and Kabul
 University Professors in Peshawar. During the meeting it was made clear by the Afghans that they would never sit with Najib around a conference table. (VOADS)
 A The Foreign Minister of Switzerland, Klaus Jacobi, told reporters in Islamabad that the UN peace plan for Afghanistan would be implemented and those opposing the formula would remain outside. (VOADS)
 -  Mohammad Esmail Siddiqi,Secretary of the mujaheddin's 28-member commission, said the entire mujaheddin community had agreed that during the interim period in Afghanistan, Najib and his party will have no role whatsoever. (VOAPS)
                  7
 -  The CID Police Peshawar foiled an attempt on the life of AIG Prime
233
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, 6 July by the well-trained saboteurs working under the slogan of "Operation Aman",' . Four saboteurs were arrested red handed from a rented house in Toda area in Daudzai when they planted the explosive in two cars and were leaving the house for an act of sabotage. The gang leader, working under the direct command of Directorate No.5 of KHAD and having contacts with RAW, secret agency of Indian police, is still in Afghanistan. The unsuccessful attempt against the Afghan leader was made for an amount of five million rupees. (NTN)
 « Iran-based HWIA spokesman said 5 July that Pakistan will shortly host a four party conference on Afghanistan. The conference will group representatives from Pakistan, Iran, the mujaheddin in Pakistan and those in Iran. (PT)
 " During their talks in Pakistan with the visiting Swiss Foreign Minister, Klaus Jacobi, the Afghan mujaheddin have rejected the proposal of peace talks with Najibullah and his ruling Watan Party, says the BBC. (JG)
 " According to resistance sources Soviet bombers from the Soviet State of Turkmenistan bombed the Badghis province in an attempt to destroy the fortifications of the mujaheddin on the Herat-Qala-e-Nau highway.' At least 30 civilians were killed during the bombing. In the struggle to reopen the highway nine regime troops and three mujaheddin were killed while six regime troops joined the resistance movement. (PT)
 " The Kabul regime has launched a second offensive against mujaheddin forces southwest of the capital two days after the regime claimed that its army had liberated 50 Wardak villages and its center. A Kabul regime spokesman said 6 juiy plans to push the mujaheddin out of north-western parts of the province. (PT)
 " The Kabul regime fired 12 SCUD missiles on border areas of Afghanistan killing 13 persons and injuring dozens of others. The missile attack was made when a big Jirgah of Jaji tribe in Paktia was in progress. (JG)
 *  The daily Pravda comments that leaders of the Watan Party in Afghanistan are in conflict with each other more than ever before, but despite all this, it is hoped that the party will have a share in the future of Afghanistan. The paper writes- that the party had committed some mistakes in the past leading to the present crisis in' the country. It is possible that leaders of the Watan party may remove Najib, but the people of Afghanistan and the world at large cannot completely rule out the role of the party in the future. The paper adds that the return to Kabul of Babrak Karmal and Sultan Ali Keshtmand can be pdrt of this plan. (VOADS)
 *  The Kabul regime forces in their second major assault on mujaheddin positions in the south, west
 and." north of Kabul in an effort to dislodge the mujaheddin from Wardak Province, Commander Anwari explained, fighting raged in the province from 1 June to 3 July in which the Kabul regime forces lost 47 tanks, 10G army personnel .carriers, two jet-fighters and three BM-41. Eight hundred troops and militiamen were killed and 450 injured. Twenty-one mujaheddin were also killed and 90 wounded. One-hundred and fifty civilians, including women and children,- were also killed or injured (BBCFS)
 " It is reported from Paktia Province that at least five persons were killed and another five injured by Kabul regime rocket fire over Jaji and Alikhail areas. (BBCPS)
 *   The Pakistani authorities have arrested one Afghan and three Pakistani
234
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 nationals in connection with the recent’ attempt on the life of the IIA leader, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf. The police disclosed that the four persons used a car in which a 15 KG-bomb with a time device were concealed. (VOADS)
                    8
    The Chief of the mujaheddin's commission, Mohammad Ismail Siddiqi, has in an interview with VOA said that all the 28 members of the Commission agree that neither Najibullah nor his-party will be allowed to play any role during the Afghan transition period, or ever after, under any circumstances. He also said that the mujaheddin were not ready to give representation to Kabul regime in any negotiations. (PT)
    Afghan mujaheddin in Pashtoon Zarghoon district of Ghorian, Herat, are reported to • have buried over 300 bodies of unclaimed militiamen of Kabul regime who were drowned in Hari Rud while trying to escape to safety during heavy fighting with the mujaheddin. (PT)
    Twenty-four militiamen were killed and 15 others injured in mujaheddin's operations against regime forces in the east* and west of Zendajan, Herat, 5 July. Two tanks and four military vehicles were also destroyed. The mujaheddin captured a regime post and killed two communists in Girdab area 29 June. Four regime troops were captured with five klashenkovs and one Grenov machine gun. One mujahed was also killed and two others injured. In the western part of Zendajan, Herat, 29 militiamen were killed and one tank &nd two military trucks ’were burnt. Four mujaheddin were also killed. Five militiamen were killed and a nuftiber gf others injured near Shindand, Farah. Four mujaheddin were also killed and five others injured. (PT)
   Thousands of Afghan teachers of AIG-sponsored schools in the liberated areas have not been paid their salaries for the last two years and children of the mujaheddin and other civilians are also without any books for the last three years, said Sayyed Mohammad Sadeq Hashimi, Chief AIG Khateeb in Paktia province, in a press release 6 July.
 (NTN)
   Thirty-three Kabul regime troops and' officers were killed and the regime forces were repulsed by the Afghan mujaheddin in heavy fighting between them in the surroundings of Gardaiz.
 (NWT)
 » Seven high ranking Kabul regime army officers were killed and several others injured by the Afghan mujaheddin during their attack on Lashkargah, Helmand province. Several regime's strategic targets and two tanks and seven vehicles were also destroyed in the operation. Two vehicles carrying ammunition were captured by the mujaheddin, who suffered no losses in the operation. (JG)
    The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has thanked and appreciated the timely action of the NWFP police for unearthing a gang of saboteurs who wanted to kill him. He said, "our Jehad is being waged for the cause of Islam and such heinous attempts of sabotage will never deter us from our policies and determination" . (PT)
     The AIG President, Sebghatulldh Mujaddedi, met Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, in Islamabad 7 July to discuss the future plan of the Interim Government in the light of UN plan for Afghanistan. According to the sources Akram Zaki told- the AIG President that Pakistan would only accept a solution which will be acceptable to. the Afghan people. (MLM)
235
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
   The Kabul regime Foreign Ministry said the arrival to Kabul of a Swiss government delegation has been put off. The delegation was to conduct renewed' talks for seeking a political settlement of the Afghan issue. No reason was stated for this postponement. But the Kabul regime officials said the delegation was to arrive in Kabul soon.
 (BBCFS)
                     9
 •  Talking to the daily Jang         in
 Peshawar 8 July the Afghan Consul, Abdul Qayyum, urged Pakistan to accept and implement UN plan for the settlement of the Afghanistan problem. He said their peace proposals as yet failed to receive any positive response from Pakistan which signified that it was not interested in them. He said for an improvement in the law and order situation in the country Pakistan should arrange Afghan refugees' repatriation. (JG)
 * Malik Nadir Khan Zakhakhel said in an interview in Peshawar 8 July the Afghans should support the UN peace plan and resolve their disputes through traditional ways with the Najibullah regime. He said the tribesman are not concerned as to who will rule Afghanistan. We want restoration of a peaceful atmosphere in that country, he said. About the return of former King Zaher Shah he said that the Afghan people would soon hear "good news" in this regard. He said the ex-King had no interest to rule Afghanistan but wanted to pull the Afghan people ‘ out of present crisis. (NTN)
    In an interview in Peshawar 9 July the ANP 1 leader, Khan Abdul wall Khan, has said that the Afghan problem should ' positively be solved by political means by the end of this year. He said the Nowshera blast was the outcome of the Afghanistan problem. (NWT)
 ^ The Afghan mujaheddin completely destroyed the Kabul regime political jail in Faizabad, Faryab, freeing all the mujaheddin prisoners who were being constasntly tortured. These freed also include mujaheddin commander, Haji Adam Khan, who was captured last year by the regime militia in Dasht-e-Lila. Seventeen militiamen were killed and some others injured. (NTN)
   Twenty militiamen were killed and 30 injured by the Afghan mujaheddin during their attacks on regime's posts in Tangi Tashqurghan and Aybak city's security posts in Samangan province 2 July. Ten militiamen defected to the mujaheddin. Five regime tanks were also set ablaze. The mujaheddin also captured 20 klashenkovs and other weapons and an army truck loaded with ammunition. In Shireen Tagab and Loqman's area, Faryab, 17 militiamen and soldiers were killed and several others injured 3 July. Five posts were also destroyed. Ninety klashenkovs and two machine guns were seized and th^ee militiamen were captured by the mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin were also killed and seven others injured. (PT)
           , /■
        Ghulam      Rasool      Qalandari,
 representative of Commander M. Amin Wardak, stated that a joint mujaheddin Council of Wardak and Paghman areas has been established in order to coordinate operations against the Kahu-\:     regime
 forces. He said fighting continued in the area and enemy forces have not been able to advance in Wardak 'province. He put Kabul regime losses at 500 with another 700 injured. He said the dead : included 40 communists also.
       Meanwhile, Esmail Khan reports from Herat that fierce fighting continued between the mujaheddin and I^abul regime forces in yarious parts of the province 2-6 July in which 95 troops were killed or wounded and 11 tanks and armored vehicles were
236
 VOL. 4 NO.4
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
 destroyed. The mujaheddin attacked, security posts in Gerdab area, Enjeel district 29 June killing a humber of military personnel,' capturing four others and seizing a quantity of weapons and ammunition. (VOADS)
    Azizullah Afzali, a JIA commander, said that 25    , mujaheddin   would  be
 released by the Kabul regime in exchange for a Russian POW, Qurban Ali who is detained by the mujaheddin. He said that a press conference should be held in the presence of the POW's father for the release of Qurban Ali. He added, proposals to this effect have been submitted to the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad and the International Red Cross but "we have had no response as yet". (VOADS)
    The Kabul regime reports that six rockets hit residential quarters of Kabul 9 July, but no losses were reported. The BBC correspondent reports from Kabul , that some rockets were fired on the Kabul Airport and the surrounding area of the Defense Ministry, (BBCFS)
    The Peshawar and Iran-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders are reported to have overcome their differences over the appointment of seats in the Afghan Shoora by agreeing, in principle, to give the Iran-based alliance five seats. Reliable source in Islamabad, 9 July, were optimistic that Iran's Foreign Minister's visit to Pakistan will pave the way for four partites, conference in Islamabad. (MLM)
    Well informed Afghan resistance and Kabul regime sources say that the Soviet leadership was not happy with the increasing factionalism in the ranks of the ruling Watan party and there are strong indications that the
 former PDPA leader, Babrak Karmal, who suddenly arrived in Kabul after a six-year forced exile in Moscow, might replace Kabul regime ruler, Najibullah.
 (NTN)
    The 28-member Commission                 of the
 Afghan Resistance met again in Peshawar 8 July and discussed a report submitted by one of its committees which was meant to consult different leaders to evolve           a consensus          about- the UN
 formula. The results of the discussion would be announced later. HIA (Khales) did not attend the meeting whereas the Iran-based HWIA for the first time sent its representative,                 Akhlaqi, as  an
 observer. (MLM)
    In          an interview with the French
 daily Le Monde the Afghan Mujaheddin Commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, has said that until Najib and the communist party remain in power the UN efforts are bound to fail. He said downfall of-the Kabul regime was certain and the fall of two or three cities would bring a complete change in the country. (NTN)
    The Afghan mujaheddin fired three rockets on Kabul 8 July. Two rockets disrupted flights at the Kabul International Airport and the third rocket fell elsewhere in the city. (MLM)
    Amnesty International has appealed to the Kabul regime for clemency regarding the death sentence of some prisoners. The organization discloses in its annual report that the Kabul regime tortures and executes hundreds of prisoners each year. (VOADS)
    Mohammad Younus Qanooni, responsible for political affairs of the General Council of Commanders, has said in a press    conference     that               Khanabad
 district, Kunduz/Province has now been under the mujaheddin control. The Kabul regime forces deployed in the Khanabad battle    included     Kayani               militia
237
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
                                                                               VOL. 4 NO.4
MEDIUM!
 Divisions No.23,54 and 80; Rashid" Dustom militia Division No.53; Army Division No.18 from Mazar-e-Sharif; Division No. 6 from Kunduz and Khwajaghair Division No. 55. In their last offensive on Khanabad 5 July 200 soldiers and militiamen were killed, 300 injured and 25 tanks were destroyed. A number of T-62 tanks, six military vehicles, two anti-aircraft guns and 23 machine-guns were Seized by the mujaheddin during the battles. The mujaheddin suffered 30 in dead with 100 injured. Kabul regime retaliatory air bombardment and firing of SCUD rockets later inflicted heavy material loss to the locals. (V0APS)
    Dr. Abdul Rahim, President of the Institute for Social Sciences and Watan Party Central Committee member has died in Kabul recently. (RA)
                   11
    The Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, held closed-door meetings in Peshawar 10 July with AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. Chief of NIFA, Peer Gailani, Amir of JIA, Burhanuddin Rabbani and representatives of the other parties. The Afghan sources said they held wide-ranging talks on' the current situation of the Afghan problem and evaluated the Jehad and political aspects of the problem vis-a-vis the political solution of the conflict. Zaki repor-.tedly suggested that the resistance and the governments of Iran and Pakistan should come out with a plausible proposal for the solution of the Afghan problem. The halting of aid to the refugees by the US and Saudi Arabia in September this year also came under discussion in these talks.; Zaki also reportedly met the 28-member Commission, recently appointed for evolving a joint consensus of the resistance on the Afghan problem and he was told by the Commission that the
 mujaheddin will not agree to any solution in which Najibullah was a party. Meanwhile, Mohammad . Younus Qanooni, head of political affairs of Peshawar-based Commanders' Shoora said in a press conference in Peshawar 10 July that the UN plan for Afghanistan could be considered if Najib and his party were excluded from the intra-Afghan dialogues. (MLM)
     The mujaheddin shot down a helicopter in Mubarak Shah, Badghis, while it was bombing the residential houses. They also ambushed and killed ,a high-ranking communist officer, Ismail, in Jabulsaraj, Parwan, 7 July and captured five regime personnel. (PT)
    The Kabul regime forces have fired 12 ground-to-ground missiles on the refugee camps in Kurram Agency in Pakistan during the last few days killing 30 Afghan refugees. (MLM)
                 12
    Sources in Kabul report that the Kabul regime and the Watan Party have had several secret meetings with Pakistan-based Afghan mu jaheddin in Kabul. The regime Vice President, however, declined to tell as to who were the participants. He said that> there has also been a dialogue with some exiled intellectuals in Kabul. (MLM)
 - In an interview with ANA in Peshawar HI A Chief, MawlaWi Mohammad Younus Khales, has urged the Afghan mujaheddin not to be involved in conspiracy in the guise of peace in Afghanistan. He said, the West intends to use Zahef Shah for its specific interests in Afghanistan and he h<as become a tool in their hands. He said the induction of Zaher Shah in the transitional government will further prolong the war. (NWT)
 * The NWFP CID police has arrested the man behind' the recent conspiracy of an
238
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 attempt on the life of AIG Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf. The man, a KHAD agent, was arrested in Rawalpindi. (NWT)
    At a function arranged in Lahore 11 July the Pakistan Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, said Pakistan had taken a definite decision to work for a political solution of the Kashmir and Afghanistan issues. (PT)
    Kabul Radio has claimed that an ammunition dump, of the mujaheddin caught fire 9 July and missiles from the dum]? were spread over a large area causing heavy casualties in Laghman. BBC says thousands of missiles were destroyed in the explosions. The ammunition dump belonged to HIA (Hekmatyar). (JG)
    The mujaheddin fired six missiles on the Kabul airport 7 July. A Soviet transport plane was sparked by a missile moments after it unloaded military supplies at the airport. The fire spread to the nearby military trucks loaded with ammunition. (MLM) |
     A Kabul regime transport plane carrying arms and foodstuff for its besieged army in Kandahar was shot down by the mujaheddin which fell on the south east of the city killing all its crew 3 July. In a clash in the same city 2 July four regime troops were killed and 10 surrendered to the mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin were also killed . in the     operation.   Several
 positions of the Kabul regime were also destroyed and a number of military vehicles set ablaze 5 July when the mujaheddin attacked a place near the military Headquarter where heavy guns and machine guns were stored in the Qishla-e-Jadeed, Kandahar. (PT)
    Heavy fighting is continuing between the mujaheddin    and the      combined
  military units of Kabul regime around Maidan Shar for the past two weeks. The
 mujaheddin are resisting the massive land and high-altitude air attacks and have so far shot down three jets and killed over, 450 regime militiamen and officers including General Zahir Ahmed" and eight other military commanders. Scores of wounded troops were airlifted to Kabul by the regime army. A large number of mujaheddin and civilians were killed as a result of the indiscriminate bombardment. (PT)
 * Addressing a press conference 'in Peshawar 6 July, head of the political affairs of the Peshawar-based Commanders' Shoora, Mohammad Younus Qanooni, said that in their joint operation the Afghan mujaheddin gave a crushing defeat to the attacking regime forces and fought them back to the Kunduz district. In the battle 100 regime personnel were killed and about 300 injured. In a hot chase mujaheddin also attacked the 80th Division of Kabul army near Kunduz district inflicting heavy losses upon them. Meanwhile, in the outskirts of Zendajan, Herat the mujaheddin killed 25 soldiers and militiamen, wounded some others and destroyed two tanks 6 July. In Khawaja Mahal area of Zendajan the same day the mujaheddin killed three regime soldiers and injured three others. (PT)
 ** Radio Kabul says that a clandestine arms depot near Jalalabad, belonging to the HIA, caught fire and was totally destroyed.
      Unidentified armed bandits in Paktia Province ambushed an ICRC ambulance killing two of its Afghan employees and injuring another two. (VOAPS)
    Engineer Abdul Tawab Asefi, a former Minister of Mines and Industries who had accompanied the UN relief team.to Helmand and Nimroz Provinces, has said that the Kamal Khan Dam Project was in a bad shape and the irrigation canals leading to Char Burjak district were
239
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991       AfGHAN ll[l
VOL. 4 NO.4
 all clodded by flooding in the area. "Immediate action was needed to rehabilitate the irrigational system", he said. He went on to say that the water reservoir for Greshk was in urgent need of repair and if steps were not taken promptly, the inhabitants would soon be forced to migrate to other areas.
 (VOAPS)
 * According to Radio Pakistan, two
 Pakistani brothers, Mohammad Amin and Mohammad    Ghulam, . were trained
 in Jalalabad by KHAD agents and sent secretly to Pakistan for subversive activities in Peshawar and Islamabad. The two brothers were captured with more than 12 kgs of TNT in their possession. They were involved in an explosion in a bus-stop at Char Sedda, 30 June, where one person was killed and seven injured. (VOADS)
 *  Mohsen Rezayi, commander of the Iranian Army of Guards (Sepah-e-Pasdaran) met Prof. Rabbani, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammadi and some other Afghan leaders in Islamabad. Mujaheddin sources report that Rezayi's object for this meeting was solidarity with the Afghan resistance. Rezayi said, an Islamic Block in the region should be established between Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. (BBCPS)
                    13
 " ;The Afghan sources say that some Afghans believe that as long as military hardware continues to flow to the warring groups, the chancels of a peaceful settlemenmt will remain bleak. The sources said that till . 1989 Washington was of the firm view that military victory by the resistance wa3 possible but their view has now been changed. The disunity within the resistance     was    another major
 disappointment and with the AIG not being a functional entity, and detente with Kremlin on other global issues, the war as far as the super powers were
 concerned, was almost over. The Afghans now believed that it is, more or less, to the ‘resistance- to fight it out on their own. As a result of this a consensus favoring a political settlement has emerged and the only hitch was the dispute over the role of Najibullah. (MLM)
y* In an interview with the AP in Kabul the regime ruler Najibullah has rejected any possibility of giving up power and said that the US and Soviets should join forces to settle the conflict in Afghanistan that has raged since 1978. (PT) '
 *  In an interview with South Asian correspondents in the World Network Program the US Ambassador to the UN said they believed that Najibullah had no legitimate and legal standing in Afghanistan and would be defeated in elections. Najibullah, he said, should quit for paving the way for a peaceful solution. He said the arms supply was an impediment in .the settlement and it should be stopped to all sides. Unfortunately the Soviet Union was not willing to stop supply of weapons to Najibullah regime, he said. (NWT)
 « A clandestine arms depot in Laghman is reported to have been hit by a rocket and exploded 9 July. It burned for 24 hours sending rockets and missiles flying into adjoining areas killing and injuring scores of people.
 (NTN)
 *  Two SCUD missiles were fired from Kabul on Khost killing two persons and injuring another. (MLM)
 *  Zia Mujaddedi has reported from Quetta that the IIA mujaheddin under Commander Baz Mohammad looted the office of relief organizations of Shahjoy district, Zabul, 4 July. The organizations 'involved included the Mine clearing and Awareness, WFO ^and Agricultural Development. (VOAPS)
240
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
   In clashes between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces at Zendajan, Herat*, 5-7 July, 40 army personnel were killed, a tank and a militia base were destroyed. Four mujaheddin were wounded. (VOIRA)
                   14
 * Pakistan's Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Shaharyar Khan, has said in an' interview with the DPA that Pakistan rejected Najib and his party because all resistance groups were opposed to him. He said that' the Soviet insistence on a future role for Najibullah remained the basic difference between Islamabad and Moscow. (NTN)
 " A former in-charge of, the CIA, has told the Jang correspondent that on the basis of discussions, two weeks ago, with the high officials of the Soviet Foreign Ministry in Moscow he has assessed that the Soviet authorities were no longer serious about Najibullah. He said the Afghanistan problem has lost its charm for both the US and - the Soviet Union. He said that Pakistan should not expect much from the US and should make efforts for the establishment of a new government in Kabul under the UN formula so * as to' ease pressure on Pakistan's economy. (JG)
 *  President Najibullah of the Kabul regime has called on the US and the Soviet Union to cooperate in setting up a regional conference to discuss Afghanistan. He praised the UN and Switzerland for their efforts to arrange a dialogue between his government and the mujaheddin. He said without his leadership civil war would develope between the many opposing groups even if. the UN supervises elections. (MLM)
  * Three major political parties of the
 Afghan mujaheddin, HIA (Hekmatyar), JIA and IIA have in a joint communique in Peshawar 13 July said that the continuous victories of mujaheddin in the military field had frustrated the enemies of jehad who, by bringing impracticable solutions, want to thwart mujaheddin's military victory. It said that the talks of a political solution were aimed at diverting the mujaheddin attention from Jehad. "The mujaheddin would cross all such barriers and •continue their sacred struggle till achieving their final goal", the communique said. (NTN)
 "*■ The Afghan mujaheddin in their attacks on Kabul regime security posts at southern Salang and Jabul Saraj 10 and 11 July, destroyed 11 tanks, 12 security posts and 22 military trucks loaded with ammunition. They also killed or wounded about 150 regime soldiers. In retaliation the AAF indiscriminately bombed the mujaheddin bases and civilian areas killing scores of civilians including men, women and children. Mujaheddin casualties were, however, not immediately available. Another 224 Kabul troops, including seven senior officers, were killed by the mujaheddin in two major clashes at a place between Greshk and Lashkargah on' Herat-Khndahar highway. In Faryab province the mujaheddin pushed back regime militia in Shabto area of Pashtoonkot district 7 July killing 30 soldiers and militiamen and injuring 21. The mujaheddin also set ablaze two vehicles loaded with ammunition and destroyed several others. Fifteen different weapons and a quantity of ammunition fell to the mujaheddin. Three mujaheddin were killed and six others were injured in the operation. (PT)
 ~ Talking to the Nation in Peshawar 13 July Haji Mohammad Qasim, who led the Afghan mujaheddin groups to Saudi Arabia during the Gulf crisis, said the
241
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991                                fllfillflNJlllAO                                     VOL.   4  NO.4
 Afghan mujaheddin received the highest Saudi army medal for their performance in Saudi Arabia. He said that first they were deployed in Khafji and later moved to Naeeria, some four kilometers away from the Kuwait border. He denied reports that 38 mujaheddin were detained by Saudi Arabia for selling arms to Palestinian freedom fighters in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. "Some mujaheddin were sent “back to Pakistan for their poor health" .he said. (NTN)
                   15
    Speaking at the refugee camp in Sohrab Goth 13 July, Commander Haji Ali Jan said that the latest UN proposals on Afghanistan were a conspiracy against the Afghan Jehad and establishment of an Islamic government there. Masterminded by the US and the Soviet Union,, the proposals were against the entire Muslim world in general and against Afghanistan in particular, he said. The Afghan .jehad, he said, has entered its last crucial stage with the fighting in full swing on all the fronts and mujaheddin scoring inceasing number of successes in their struggle. He said that the Afghan mujaheddin will foil any attempt by the US, UN or the Soviet Union to impose any hand-picked government on Afghanistan. (NTN)
  " Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, has clarified in a statement that "the question of my telling the Arabs to leave Afghanistan does not arise at all and a report in this regard appearing in a section of the press is baseless and unfounded". He said that his party was indebted to the Arab brethren for their assistance which was purely on humanitarian grounds and in accordance with the tenets of Islam (MLM) *
  * The Kabul regime President Najib- '• ullah has welcomed the UN moves in Switzerland to -organize a dialogue between what he called, "his government
 and the rebels". (MLM)
 " In an operation lasting the whole night,the Afghan mujaheddin killed 15 Kabul regime troops 8 July near the Soviet—built Shindand Airport and destroyed two bunkers. (PT)
 » Mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime security posts in Shindand 28 and 29 June capturing two of them and seizing a large quantity of arms. Eight mujaheddin were killed in these operations.
     The HIA mujaheddin put fire to an arms depot in Greshk, Helmand, killing a number of soldiers. They also destroyed an army truck at Lashkargah. (VOAPS)
 * In a mujaheddin operation in the vicinity of Shindand airport, Farah Province, 15 troops were killed and some quantity of arms and ammunition also fell to the mujaheddin. Four mujaheddin were killed and another five wounded in the fight. In Injeel district, Herat, fighting broke out between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces in which four soldiers defected to the mujaheddin while the others fled away. (RP)
                 16
 *• Addressing a gathering in Peshawar 15 July Naib Amir of JIA, Sayyed Noorullah Emad, said that the UN plan for the Afghan issue was a plot against jehad and the Afghan nation at large. The imperialist forces under the banner of the UN, he said, were hatching plots against the Afghan mujaheddin in a bid to prolong Najib's rule. He said that the assasination attempt on the life of an Afghan leader recently, was a part of these conspiracies. About the proposal for an impartial government in Afghanistan, he'
242
JULY-SEPTEMBER». 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 said the impartial elements were the agents of the enemies of Islam who opposed jehad from the very beginning. Such elements# he said, always bargained on national interests and were more loyal to their alien masters. (PT)
 ■* Talking informally to newsmen at a dinner hosted by the President of Pakistan-Afghanistan Friendship Association, Salim Akbar Afridi, in Peshawar the Kabul regime Consul, Abdul Qayyum, has predicted political settlement of the Afghan, war by the end of 1991. He said that the game of guns was useless after the withdrawal of Soviet forces and the mujaheddin will have to talk to Najibullah, as he was head of the Kabul regime. (MLM)
 * A Moscow radio commentator says the* importance of negotiations will become. clear to the Afghan mujaheddin and the forces backing them sooner or later. It will be in the interest of Afghanistan to stop bloodshed as soon as possible. It has been proved that nobody can impose its will on the opposite side. Every group is a reality which could not be ignored. (MLM)
 " Fifty-three regime 'soldiers were killed and 25 injured in mujaheddin's joint attack 14 July on regime posts in Tangi Waghjan, Ali Malang, Porak and Hindo Kariz,Mohammad Agha district oi' Logar province. Huge material losses were also inflicted to the regime forces. Two mujaheddin were killed and 12 others were injured in the operations. In the west, of Barakai Barak district, Logar, 13 July three regime, soldiers were killed and six others injured by the mujaheddin. Thirteen regime soldiers and officers were captured 14 July in Zarghoon Shahr. In their attack on regime posts at Darwaza-e-Herat of Kandahar 12 July, 15 soldiers and militiamen were killed and a number of others were injured by the
 mujaheddin.One soldier surrendered. Three mujaheddin* were killed and another was injured. Thirteen regime posts in Pul-e-Surkh and Kako Khel areas were captured and huge human and material losses were inflicted to the regime forces in the south-west part of Maidan Shar 13 July. Four Gelum Jam militias were also captured alive. Five mujaheddin were killed and seven others were injured. (PT)
 *  Mujaheddin sources say that Dr. Hassan Turabi, leader of the Sudanese. National Islamic Front, met a number of the mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad. Dr. Turabi, who is currently on a visit to Pakistan, is trying to bring about unity between the fundamentalist and moderate. mujaheddin groups and to encourage them to adopt a unified political stance. Turabi believes that disunity among the mujaheddin groups is responsible for the Kabul regime to stay in power. (VOAPS)
 *  In a resolution issued in Peshawar , the AIG has condemned the looting of
 relief supplies by some mujaheddin .groups in Zabul Province., The resolution says that such acts are contrary to jehadic and Islamic principles as well as to international norms, and has urged the mujaheddin to return the supplies to the relief organizations concerned. (VOADS)
 *  Abdul Rahman ,Pazhwak, a former diplomat and Afghan permanent representative to the UN, has said that the UN peace plan for Afghanistan was not practicable. He proposed an international conference, attended, by the five permanent members of the Security Council and the mujaheddin forces both inside and outside Afghanistan. The conference can also be attended by Iran, Pakistan, the OIC and members of the Parcham and Khalq factions (as a party only). (VOAPS)
                   17
 " The ‘sub division Zebak, Badakhshan, was captured 15 July by the Afghan mujaheddin apd . 170 regime troops were arrested, '36 killed and some others including militia commander, Danyar, surrendered to the mujaheddin. Two mujaheddin were also killed and seven injured in the operations. Four mortars, one ZK-1, 200 klashenkovs and
 four rocket launchers • and a large quantity of ammunition also fell to the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin are now heading towards Eshkashem district of Badakhshan to reach their target, Faizabad. Meanwhile, in Zendajan three tanks were destroyed. Retaliating, the Kabul regime troops shelled heavily Koke Baku area causing big losses to the residents. The mujaheddin set on fire a big ammunition depot in Greshk 15 July and killed and injured a number of regime troops. (PT)
 *  Ir\ their joint- operation in Tangi Waghjan. and other areas of Mohammad Agha district, Logar, 14 July six regime posts were captured by the Afghan mujaheddin killing 50 regime soldiers, injuring 25 others and inflicting heavy losses to the regime forces. Two mujaheddin were killed and 12 injured.* (NTN)
 * , In response to a proposal from the Iridian military authorities, the Najibullah regime has offered landing and refuelling rights to Indian military and transport aircraft in the case of a possible military conflict with Pakistan, says ANS quoting, reliable Afghan resistance sources. The Kabul international airport, the Air Force Base of Khawaja Rawash and the Jalalabad ,aitf ield could possibly be used by the Indian air force for this purpose. The proposal is backed by Soviet military advisors and the KGB hardliners. (PT)
 *  Babrak Karmal, the former Kabul regime President, told the Reuter correspondent that he was opposed . to the Russian invasion but could not do anything about it. When asked why did he not submit his resignation under the circumstances, Karmal said that he had done so on many occasions but each time it was turned down by the ruling party. He said he supported the establishment of a. government in Afghanistan based on western democracy. (VOADS)
                                     • • • > • /
 * Mohammad Younus Qanooni and Soofi
 Qurban, representatives of the JIA northern fronts, are reported to have told a press conference in Peshawar that the mujaheddin captured Zebak, Badakhshan P’rovince, 16 July. Thirty-six soldiers were killed in the battles and 170 were captured by the mujaheddin. They added that the militia commander in the area together with 200 weapons of various type defected to the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 *  Quoting the ' Supervisory Council, diplomatic sources in Pakistan said that the mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime divisions No. 24, and 66 in southern Salang 10 July, capturing 12 posts in the area..(VOADS)
                  18
 « The Foreign Minister of Iran, Dr. Ali. Akbar Velayati, arrives in Islamabad 28 July on a two-day visit for talks to ^evolve a common approach to the political settlement in Afghanistan. During his visit a conference will be held at Islamabad £n which Pakistan, Iran and Afghan mujaheddin organizations will participate . (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime jet fighters severely bombed mujaheddin positions in Ahmad Khel Paktia, 14 July killing two mujaheddin, injuring six others and
244
JUIV-SEPTEM8ER. 1991                                  HlUilflll(linHil                                          VOL. 4 NO.4
 destroying two trucks and a pick-up. The mujaheddin captured a post, in Shah Kabul area, Wardak, 13 July and arresbed five armed milibiamen. One militiaman was killed and a number of others injured. Twenty-three militiamen were killed, several others injured and two posts were destroyed 14 July by the mujaheddin when they attacked regime security posts in Char Asyab district in Kabul. Some 20 regime's ■ Kayani militiamen defected to mujaheddin in Kunduz. A militia commander, Habibullah and 20 militiamen joined the mujaheddin in Khanabad district, Kunduz, 14 July. In their offensive over the regime military positions near Zendajan district in Herat 15 July, 10 militiamen were killed and eight others injured and \three tanks and two army vehicles were also destroyed killing those - on board. The same date the mujaheddin destroyed one post in the security belt of Herat city capturing several rifles and a wireless set. Four mujaheddin      were  killed  in     the
 operation I (PT)
 " Forty Kabul regime troops were killed and more than 60 injured when the mujaheddin attacked the regime military targets, near Zurmat, PaktJLa, destroying     three  tanks,  two    big
 military ammunition vehicles and two ambulances. (NWT)
 " Benon Sevan, s UN Secretary General's representative for Afghanistan, told a press conference in Geneva 16 July that none of ‘‘the mu jaheddirjj| leaders is prepared to     talk publicly with   the
 Kabul regime and "until that taboo is removed there cannot be an all-inclusive Afghan dialogue. No one has full control on the various groups, and alliances are made and unmade all the time", he said. Prospects of talks to end fighting in Afghanistan, ; he said, looked remote. (PT)
 * According to ANA the Logar mujaheddin of Mohammad Aga launched operations
 on Zarghoon Shah and Tangi Waghjan military posts 15 July capturing 16 of them. Fifty troops and officers were killed during the operations, 25 injured and another 13 were captured.
                            i        :
 Six tanks were also destroyed and 52 different arms were seized. Six mujaheddin were killed, 23 wounded and another six, including commander Saber, are missing. (VOAPS)
 *  HIA (Mohseni) Commander Jaafari says •war ’ ' has been raging between the
 mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces in Wardak Province for six weeks. The regime forces finally began retreating but after 52 mujaheddin were killed and another 72 injured. MIDIA reports that seven WAD security officials were captured in P.aktia Province when they were just beginning to carry out an act of sabotage. Eleven telecommunication sets, seven pistols, one klashenkov and five million afghanis were also recovered from them. (VOAPS)
  * A French national who was kidnapped by a mujaheddin group in Zabul Province last week has been released recently*
  (BBCPS)
                   19
 " Addressing a meeting of the mujaheddin and refugees in Chamkani 18 July the AIG Minister for Reconstruction, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said there, were a number of good points in UN formula on Afghanistan which were acceptable. Nevertheless, he said, the proposal of /international dialogue on Afghanistan ,was vague and needed further clarification. (NTN)
  ** Heavy fighting erupted between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces around Maidan Shar, the center of-
  Wardak Province. The mujaheddin are
            ' ‘    -1                    '
  using heavy weapons and long range guns to check the advance of regime forces which have, so far, failed to dislodge
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 mujaheddin from the area. Meanwhile, in' Pule-e-Surkh area the mujaheddin destroyed one post killing a number of regime troops 15 July. ,And in a surprise ambush in Gardaiz city, Pakita-, 10 WAD. personnel were arrested and five million afghanis and some arms were recovered from them. In Abchakan area, Logar, a regime jet fighter was shot „down by the mujaheddin., (NTN)
 * AFP, quoting a Pakistani newspaper says two Americans who were working for a British relief organization were taken hostage inside Afghanistan 4 July. The US has forbidden American nationals to enter Afghanistan. The agency adds that the ICRC has stopped its activities in the north and west of Afghanistan for security reasons. (VOADS)
 * NIFA sources report that militia commander Shadikhan defected to the mujaheddin at Qadis, ‘Badghis Province, together with 500 men and 800 pieces of various types of arms.
     According to AFP,’ Farid Mazdak, deputy chief of the ruling Watan party in Kabul, has warned that any party member attempting to establish relations with Babrak Karmal, former Kabul regime President, will be liable to punishment. (VOADS)
                   20
                     I
 » The OIC has invited representatives of both the Najibullah regime and the Peshawar-based AIG to its forthcoming ministerial conference in Turkey. Invitation to both sides was confirmed by the Afghan Consul in Peshawar and the AIG officials. A reliable sourcfe told The Nation that from Najibullah side the OIC would be attended by his Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakeel while the Peshawar-based AIG would be represented by its Reconstruction Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani. It was also learnt that the OIC organizers.
 especially Saudi Arabia, was suggested by the US to invite the Najibullah regime's representative to the OIC. (NTN)
 - Talking to newsmen in Faisalabad, where he had come to visit the parents of Hasan-al-Banna who had embraced martyrdom on Jalalabad front, the Area Commander of the front, Sharafat Khan, disclosed that the Afghan' mujaheddin are poised to launch a major attack o,n Jalalabad in the near future under a changed strategy. For this purpose, he said, the Jalalabad-Kabul road would soon be closed as an initial step. The mujaheddin, he said, are still in a position to carry on their struggle on their own. The area commander bemoaned the Zionists, hegemony on world media for a complete blackout of news about mujaheddin victory. These Zionists, he said, have now been banned from entering mujaheddin areas. He said the Afghan problem would be solved by the Afghans themselves and no outside solution would be acceptable. He also called upon Pakistan Government not to succumb to American pressure for Western solution of the Afghan problem.
 (MLM)           ’    .
 A The US Government has decided not to allow the Americans or Afghan nationals working in US establishments to cross over the border to Afghanistan from Pakistan. (NWT) \
    The Kabul regime troops had to vacate 16 security posts in the south f>f Kabul. The mujaheddin also destroyed two mountainous military positions from where the. Kabul' regime army launched, missiles. In the clashes 18 regime troops were killed and 11 others, including two officers, surrendered. Three regime tanks were damaged and seven mujaheddin were killed in the clashes. (PT)
                                                                  The mujaheddin shot down a Kabul
246
JULY-SEPTEMBERr 1991     fllGIIANJIHAO                  VOL. 4 NO-4
 regime aircraft while it was bombing their positions in Dobandi, Logar, 15 July killing all the crew members. Commander Haji Habib 1 and three mujaheddin were killed and a mujaheddin post was destroyed during the air-raids. In Hesarak area the mujaheddin overran a regime military post and captured six of the militiamen and destroyed a BM-13 launcher; killed 23 regime personnel and* captured three of them in their attack in Char Asyab district 15 July. Four regime security posts were destroyed and 16 militiamen, a wireless set and a huge quantity of ammunition were captured by the Herat mujaheddin (date not given) i, In Greshk district, Helmand, they destroyed three
        I    «
 posts and two tanks with all. those on board and captured 19 different arms. Three mujaheddin were killed and nine others injured in the operation. Four regime posts were destroyed by the mujaheddin in the outskirts of Ghazni city 17 July. In retaliation the regime aircraft severely bombed local areas of Beni Sang, Nohborjak and Qala-e-Lal killing four children and injuring seven others. The mujaheddin captured Tapa-e-Sangi post near Ghazni 15 Jql-y killing two officers and four soldiers. The mujaheddin attacked the regime headquarter along the Arghandeh road in Paghman district, Kabul, 15 July killing two officerS and a number Of soldiers. A vehicle. loaded with ammunition was burnt in the operation. Another vehicle leaded with ammunition was destroyed by a mine killing all those on board. (PT)
 * 'Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the JIA leader"said in Peshawar regarding the UN peace plan for Afghanistan that there were two steps by which to solve the Afghan problem i.e. (1) cutting Soviet supplies to the Kabul regime and (2) Najib's stepping down from power. "We will never sit around the conference table with Najib", he said.., ( VOADS)
                   21
  " Addressing the concluding session of a three-day seminar of Afghan students the HIA leader, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
 . said that any solution of the Afghanistan problem to which mujaheddin will not agree will be -unimplementable. "The hands that are conspiring tc dictate their own solution to the Afghans will be chopped off and the nation will . determine their owr future"> he said. The mujaheddin, he said, will never allow foreign agents to rule the country and continue theii just struggle till the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan.
 ' (FT)
  *  The Commanders' Council reports from Peshawar that in the mujaheddin attack
•, on the highway in southern Salang 17 July, six security posts, two tanks and 23 army vehicles were destroyed. In another mujaheddin attack on army division 64 on the highway one day earlier, 10 officers and troops were killed and six security posts were destroyed. Coinciding with these operations the mujaheddin attacked security posts around Khinjan, northern Salang, destroying two tanks, four cannons and 23 trucks carrying supplies and ammunition to the Kabul regime from the USSR. Nine soldiers and officers were killed and six injured.
       A military helicopter was shot down by the mujaheddin in Pashtun Kot, Faryab, 14 July killing all the 2,0 passengers, (VOAPS)
  *  A 20-member joint commission, 10 each from HIA (Hekmatyar) and JIA, has recently been ' established. ; The commission has been entrusted to propound and examine joint attacks on Kabul. (VOAPS)
       • f ■ '.      ■ . ■              .
  *  Sultan Ali Keshtmand, a former Kabul
247
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 regime Prime Minister, has resigned from the ruling Watan party upon return from the Soviet Union. He gave these reasons for his resignation:    (1) no
 sign in Kabul of the democratic changes that have recently taken place on global level, (2) further ramification of the Watan party has caused its futher weakness, (3) undesirable party attitude towards the ethnic minorities,
 (4)  inefficient method of encounter with the national reconciliation policy. (BBCFS)
                          \ •
 *  The NIFA -office in Tehran, quoting commander Khwaja Zabihullah, reports that fierce fighting continued between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces at Zendajan, Herat 10 and 11 July in which 500 troops were killed. The report adds that three tanks were also destroyed in areas surrounding Zendajan. (V0At>S)
 *  The Kabul regime has appointed General Abdul Bagi S/o Sayyed Maqsood as the chief of security for' tl^e presidential office. (RA)
                   22
 » Addressing a joint press conference in Peshawar 21 July,the military representatives of thie seven major mujaheddin parties said that the world mass media was ignoring mujaheddin’s victories in Afghanistan and was flashing only political aspects of the Jehad. They said that glorious victories of mujaheddin in different' parts of Afghanistan coupled with internal rifts and differences existing in the Najib regime were weakening the Kabul regime. They said that mujaheddin never attached any hope to the political solution and setressed on mediamen that, instead of searching a political resolution of the problem they should highlight the military Victories of the,• mujaheddin. The political solution they said, was the'
 plan of the super powers, who were pursuing their own designs in Afghanistan. The super powers,they said were afraid of the three Muslim countries i.e. Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan and considered the establishment of Islamic governments there as a threat to themselves. The commanders said that the halt in military aid to mujaheddin has not affected their morale. The future operations of the mujaheddin will prove that their military victory was possible as they were now fully united, the commanders said. (MLM)
 "The Afghan mujaheddin foiled a major attempt by the Kabul regime forces to break the siege of the mujaheddin in Baghlan and Kabul troops, fled away leaving behind 12 damaged tanks. At least 30 regime troops were killed or wounded in the operation!. Four mujaheddin were also killed. Two hours later,, the AAF bombed the rural localities of Baghlan where dozens of houses were demolished, orchards were destroyed and cattle' killed. Over 20 Afghan civilians, mostly women and children, are said to.have been killed in the bombing. (PT)
 * Talking to Rawalpindi-Islamabad based newsmen in Peshawar the NWFP Inspector General of Police, Syed Masood Shah, said that the Afghan refugees were not involved in crimes such as robbery and kidnapping and it was part * of a propaganda campaign by anti-social elements to create bitterness between Afghah refugees and the locals. He said the agents of KGB, RAW and WAD were involved in bomb explosions. After getting training in Kabul and. Moscow the saboteurs enter Pakistan     disguised    as Afghan
 refugees to initiate terroristic activities in the country. (NTN)
                 23
 mujaheddin captured Eshkashem in Badakh-
   " The Afghan another district
 248
JUIY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 shan Province 21 July and have obtained control over many important gargesin the surrounding area. With the capture of this district the Kabul regime's trade and communication links with the Russian held Tadjikistan have been cut-off. The mujaheddin have also captured a large number of arms and ammunition from the conquered district. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin launched a surprise attack on military airbase in Dand district of Kandahar 19 July destroying one tank, two military trucks and a cannon. Five regime troops were killed. Five mujaheddin were also killed and two others wounded. A regime major and 20 soldiers were killed when the      mujaheddin     attacked     the
 Qishla-e-Jadeed military center 15 July. Three jeeps and a cannon were destroyed. Two mujaheddin were killed in the operation. Mujaheddin attacked the airport from Arghandab district 14-July destroying two tanks, three military trucks and killing five regime soldiers. In retaliation the regime airforce heavily straffed the area killing two civilians and injuring four others. Qishla-e-Jadeed ' was again attacked with heavy artillery by the mujaheddin 19 July killing a regime military officer and five soldiers and destroying a truck. Two mujaheddin were injured in the operation. In Greshk district,         Heliriand, .the
 mujaheddin destroyed eks; regime military truck and killed three soldiers 20 July. One mujahed was also injured. In Nadi Ali district, Helmand, vhe mujaheddin attacked the Lashkargah military headquarter of the regime destroying three; tanks and killing a regime commander and three. soldier Ji In an attack ^6n regime installations. >i at Greshk 2ligg>f[uly, 15 regime soldiers
 were ‘ captured and six others killed. Three,^ posts were destroyed. Three mujaheddin were also killed and five others injured. (MLM)
 * A powerful explosion oceured in
Kabul 22 July after which Kabul TV stopped its transmission for 90 m'inutes. A regime spokesman said the blast was an aftershock of a medium range surface-to-surface missile fired towards an enemy target. The spokesman, however, could not explain the interruption in TV programs. (PT)
■- The northern provinces of Afghanistan. are reported to have been hit by food shortage of drastic proportions. The worst affected provinces are Badakhshen, Samangan, Jauzjan,     Faryab     and Badghis,
threatening about half million people with famine. A recent survey said the current situation might get worse than the 1971 famine. The price of wheat has risen 'in some areas to twice its normal price. The current food shortage has its roots in the steady degradation of agriculture, over the past few years due to war, political upheaval, wheat seed depreciation, livestock scarcity and poor agricultural practices. A severe outbreak of locust over the last four years, as well as unusually harsh late spring and early fall frosts in 1989 and 1990 have seriously exacerbated the situation. (NTN)‘
* Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, the HIA leader, said in Peshawar regardihg the Islamabad tripartite conference due to open 28 July, "Iran’s words and deeds contradict each other. On the one hand Iran desires /unity among the mujaheddin- groups and on the other it nourishes the Shia mujaheddin groups on its soil. Thi^s will neither help unity among the • mujaheddin por the establishment of a government". He added that in Afghanistan the Russians not. only raged a fierce war but also a cold war by fanning the differences^ between the Shia and Sunni religious sects so that two divide the country by this means. Regarding the tripartite, conference for the political settlement of' the Afghan issue he said, "we were'
249
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 riot consulted on the matter, but we will oppose any decision that may be against the objectives of our jehad". (VOADS)
                 24
 * Upon invitation of the Kabul regime Zaheer Shareqa, the Syrian Deputy President, arrived in Kabul at the head of a senior delegation 24 July. (RA)
                 25
 * The mujaheddin Commander, Ahmed Shah Masood, has said that Faizabad was his next target after the capture of Zebak and Eshkashem in Badakhshan province. Meanwhile, Faizabad's Airport was under attack and the UN evacuation plane could not leave until 22 July. Several UN humanitarian agencies have evacuated their personnel from the province because of heavy fighting in the region, relief workers said 23 July. The sources said 26 surface rockets hit Faizabad. In Wardak six military posts of Kabul regime were captured by the mujaheddin 22 July, reports ANA. In a surprise attack 15 regime soldiers were killed and a number were injured. Five mujaheddin were also injured in the operation. Ten security posts fell to the mujaheddin in Maidan Shar 19 July, and a number of regime soldiers were killed. In Paktia province 30 regime soldiers were killed and a number of security posts destroyed in Zurmat district. In retaliation the Regime jet bombers heavily straffed mujaheddin positions killing four mujaheddin and destroying a number of shops at the Kulalgo Bazar. Sixteen regime soldiers were killed and one military post was captured by the mujaheddin at Tera Kandao, Paktia. Eight soldiers and militiamen defected to the mujaheddin. Mujaheddin ambushed a military caravan at Safaid Khak in Wardak province killing six Gelam Jam militiamen and injuring two others. In Zabul province
  two Gelam Jam militiamen defected to the mujaheddin. (PT)
  - A regime military helicopter carrying 20 girl-dancers and lQ-military officer^-was shot down by the mujaheddin in the liberated area of Pashtoon Kot while it was flying to the center         of    Faryab     after
  entertaining the military officers at Mazar-e-Sharif. All those on board were killed and their bodies and musical instruments were lying scattered in the area. Three other helicopters escorting the team, retaliated injuring a number of the mujaheddin. (NWT)
 . ■* The OIC Assistant Secretary General, Ebrahim Bakr, met the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Peshawar 22 and 23 July, reports ANA. Reliable sources say that he asked the Afghan leaders to present a- joint formula for the political solution of the Afghan issue. All the mujaheddin leaders told him about their joint stand . for the removal of Najibullah and apprised him of the military situation in Afghanistan, the sources said. (PT)
    . .              I                    *
  * Mujaheddin sources report that, in their joint attack on Maidan Shar, Wardak 19 July, the mujaheddin captured nine security posts. In another mujaheddin attack on military posts in the south-west of Maidan Shar the same day, 20 troops and militiamen were killed, 13 injured and another eight captured. Twelve klashenkovs and 70 cases of ammunition also fell in the hands of the mujaheddin. The Jandullah mujaheddin reports from Safaid Khak, Wardak,that 16 militiamen in the area were killed by the mujaheddin. NLFA reports that their mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime security posts near Maidan' Shar killing several army personnel and destroying two armored tanks and two military vehicles. The report adds that eight soldiers defected to the resistance forces, but six mujaheddin were also killed in these attacks.
 250
JULY-SEPTEMBER# 1991       : ftfGlIANJlllAO             VOL- 4  NO.4
     According to another report, in their attack on the southern parts of Maidan Shar 12 July, the mujaheddin killed 15 Kabul • regime personnel and destroyed five ’military trucks. Three mujaheddin were also killed and two injured. (VOAPS)
 * Condemning the recent looting of relief supplies by the mujaheddin of Moallem Baz Mohammad (IIA), the Zabul local commanders' council termed the act as "anti-jehad and anti-Islamic". The raid was earlier condemned by the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. The mujaheddin commanders, including those of . the IIA, took necessary measures in this regard and have so far recovered seven trucks and several mine clearing devices from Moallem Baz Mohammad which will be returned to the relief organizations concerned. (VOAPS)
                  26
 * The AAF heavily bombed the fortifications around Gardaiz, Paktia, 18 July by the mujaheddin who had placed under siege the provincial headquarter. Two mujaheddin were killed and eight others were injured. The bombers fled away as soon as mujaheddiri antiaircraft guns were deployed. (PT)
                  27
 " Reliable sources say that establishment of diplomatic relations with Najibullah regime in Afghanistan is under the consideration of the US Government arid its envoy for Afghan mujaheddin, Peter Tomsen, will visit Peshawar in this connection to initiate the process. Meanwhile, military aid to Afghan mujaheddin is being stopped and various international relief- agencies are also winding up their offices. (NWT) **
 ** Reliable sources told The Nation that internal clashes amongst various
 mujaheddin groups delayed proposed attack on Jalalabad, Nahgarhar. (NTN)
                28
 . ~ In their massive joirit operation in Logar province’ the mujaheddin have recaptured their lost positions at Tangi Waghjan, Niazi and other areas in Logar and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Fierce fighting, supervised by local shooras, was reported from different fronts. (MLM)
 ** Former Kabul regime Prime Minister,
 Sultan Ali Keshtmand, has said he saw no sign of democracy in Afghanistan and internal differences in the ruling Watan Party were increasing, which formed the 'basis for his resignation from the government and the party position recently. According to VOA/he said he was in touch with HWIA in Iran but, commenting on his remar^, HWIA Deputy Chief Hujjatul Islam Akhlaqi, said both Najib and Keshtmand had a common faith and ideology and the latter would find no place in Shia community in Afghanistan. (NTN)
    In response to a query regarding rumors that the Kabul regime was to be invited to the OIC meeting in Istanbul, the OIC representative told the. London-based Islamic Council that OIC had extended invitation only to the AIG.
 ( ntn .
 * A Pakistani officer, Shair Khan, was captured by the Kabul regime in Laghman Province 26 July and was charged with spying and assisting the mujaheddin.
     Resistance sources say that Ghulam Daistgeer Shakaib, a former military officer and his wife, were murdered in their home in Peshawar 27 July by unidentified gunmen. (VOADS)
                29
 *  Tripartite two-day conference on      f
 Afghanistan for arriving at a political  "
251
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
M
VOL. 4 NO.4
 settiemenc or the crisis on the basis of UN Secretary General's proposal begins in Islamabad 29 May. Pakistan officials consulted Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Afghan mujaheddin in this regard . to which all parties have agreed. The Iranian delegation is being led by its Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati and Pakistan delegation by Akram Zaki, Secretary General of the Foreign Ministry. The Afghans will be represented by Pakistan-based Afghan mujaheddin organizations.The six component parties of AIG and HIA (Hekmatyar) are learnt to have agreed upon the formulation of a joint political stance on future overall solution of Afghanistan.
      Meanwhile,      Iranian      Foreign
 Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, arrived in Islamabad 28 July. He told newsmen at the airport that tripartite talks between Iran, Pakistan and Afghan mujaheddin based in .both countries would b^ held in depth. He said his government believed there were some positive points in the UN proposal. Meanwhile, weekly Shahadat, official organ of HIA (Hekmatyar) has termed direct political dealings with certain field commanders by some countries as an interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (PT)
 » Thirty-eight Kabul regime troops were killed and seven others surrendered to the mujaheddin during heavy fighting in the surroundings of Maidan Shar 21 July. The mujaheddin launched their attack from Pul-e-Surkh side. The regime troops resisted with armored units and lost two tanks. The mujaheddin captured strategic positions and the regime troops fled away leaving their dead behind. The mujaheddin also seized various kinds of arms and ammunition, but five mujaheddin were killed in the operations. Meanwhile, a mujaheddin commander, Mawlawi Arsala said in an interview with ANA in Peshawar 28 July that the commanders of
                                                                                                        252
 HIA (Hekmatyar), HIA (Khales) and IIA had given final touches to launch an attack on Gardaiz from the southern and south-western sides. "Regime's besieged troops will not be able to get away as all the routes from Gardaiz were being closed by the mujaheddin. The Gardaiz-Logar main road will also be cut off before launching the attack," he said.Mawlawi"Arsala disclosed that recently the mujaheddin arrested a group of terrorists who indulged in the kidnapping of some foreigners inside the country. He said the terrorists, who were disguised as mujaheddin, were found to be regime agents with fake documents. (PT)
 » The Landai Khyber area on the Tor^-
 kham-Jalalabad highway was reportedly
 attacked with SCUD missiles 27 July
 with regime planes also bombing around
 Jalalabad and their main targets being
 Samarkhel, Surkhdiwal Hisar-e-£?hahi'
 and Batikot Nangarhar. The Kabul regime
 ground forces, backed by tanks and
 artillery, launched a major offensive
 against the resistance mainly between
 Sarobi and Kabul on the main highway
 and fierce fighting is continuing. The
 regime forces also intensified their
 operations in the Malang and Butkhak
 sectors by firing missiles and bombing
                                                                the area heavily but could not dislodge
                                                                the resistance. The mujaheddin captured
                              %
                                                               10 posts , in Wardak and eliminated Kabul's presence in Takhar province.
 (MLM)
 .* Commander Ahmad Shah Masood has stated that after capturing Eshkashem, Zebak in Badakhshan and Khwajaghar in Takhar, his mujaheddin launched their operations on a bridge on the Kokcha River 22 July ‘ capturing it the following day. He said the mujaheddin then continued their advance towards the north capturing Yangi Qala, Rustaq and Dasht-e-Qala districts one after the other. More than 3,000 troops and militiamen      surrendered     to the
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991   flfflllllN Jllllll]
VOL. 4 NO.4
 mujaheddin and a large       supply of
 weapons ■ and ammunition     whs also •
 captured. (VOADS)
                    30
 » The UN peace plan for Afghanistan is reported to have run into difficulties iri the initial stages of the tripartite talks as leaders of various Afghan groups termed it "ambiguous" in the informal consultations with Pa:     tan
 and Iran in Islamabad 29 July. The leaders      who     attended     taase
- consultations included AIG President Sebghatullah Mujeddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, was represented by two of his close aides, while Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of HI A sent Engr. Qutbuddin and Haji Sarfraz and a local representative. Iran-based Afghan leader, Murtazavi, stayed out of these ^'consultations. The Peshawar-based Asef Mohseni refused to attend and sources said that Younus khales of HIA also boycotted the talks. Another source said that Younus Khales, Hekmatyar and Sayyaf vehmently opposed any Najib role in the Afghan tangle, even for transition period. Both Iran and Pakistan have asked the Afghan leaders to prepare their own peace formula if they do not agree on the UN formula. Haji Sarfraz, representative of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said "we will definitely find out another peace formula." ' Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special representative, who flew to Islamabad to have his personal assessment of the tripartite talks, refused      to     comment on the
 consultations. The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, is reported to have accepted four of the five points of the UN plan. He told The Muslim "we should avail the opportunity of turning it into a permanent peace solution. (MLM)
 - Addressing a gathering of Afghan ul-ama in Peshawar 28 July Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, has suggested the’ formation of a Shoora with such members from all the districts and provinces of Afghanistan who took practical part in the Afghan jehad or supported it. About Najib's involvement in the future Afghan government he said Ehat unconditional stepping down of Najib could lead to the formation of an Islamic government and jehad was the only way to get rid.of him. He said the conquests of mujaheddin all over the country had created a crisis for the Kabul regime and the end of Najib was near. Hekmatyar said that America helped mujaheddin only to avenge it's defeat in Vietnam but it had no interest in the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 * .In his separate messages to Soviets President Gorbachev and US President Bush on the eve of their Moscow summit; the Kabul regime President Najibullah has said that like the past the Afghan people have attached high hopes to the outcome of their summit leading to a political settlement Of their country's problem. (MLM)
 ~ Seven Kabul regime security posts and four regime personnel were captured and 15 were killed when the mujaheddin launched renewed attacks in various places of Logar province. They also recovered arms from the captured posts. Two mujaheddin were killed and 13 others injured in the operations. (MLM)
 ' **' Power supply to Kabul collapsed 29 July when the mujaheddin attacked the power station southeast <jf the city. The supply first disrupted 28 July after clashes' resulting in a blackout for more than 24'hours. Confirming this a regime spokesman said the city had only emergency supplies. (PT)        •
  * The Logar commanders' council
253
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 MO.4
reports that during joint mujaheddin* attacks on military posts in various parts of the province eight security posts were captured at the Tangi Waghjan military headquarters. Fifteen troops and militiamen were killed and another four captured. Several others were wounded. Two mujaheddin were also killed and 13 injured. (VOAPS)
*  According to a Radio Kabul broadcast mujaheddin rocket fire bn Kabul has killed four persons. Another rocket attack on Sarobi killed several persons and destroyed two power transmission towers. (VOADS)
                  31
*   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, has said that the Islamabad tripartite conference was the last chance for securing peace in Afghanistan. He urged all mujaheddin leaders to take these talks seriously. Mujaddedi categorically rejected any role of the Kabul regime in the political set up of future Afghanistan. "But we are ready to accept Kabul regime officials provided they are true Muslims," he said. (VOIRA)
" The two-day tripartite conference on Afghanistan ended in Islamabad 30 July with a joint declaration issued from Islamabad and Tehran saying that any solution of the Afghanistan problem should lead to the replacement of the present illegal government in Kabul and the • establishment of an elected government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. The Afghan people, the declaration said, must be . able to choose their own form of government without outside intervention or pressure and conditions should be created for the voluntary return of the Afghan refugees to their homes in safety and honor. Both Pakistan and Iran agxeed to make joint efforts to mobilize international suppbrt for the
 cause of peace and for just solution of the Afghanistan problem. The conference paid glowing tributes* to the valiant Afghan, people for the jehad against foreign occupation, their great sacrifices including more than one and a half million martyrs and the resolute support to the cause of jehad by Islamic nations and the international community. The Afghan mujaheddin parties envisaged future Afghanistan to be Islamic, non-aligned, an abode of peace and an important contribution to tranquility ’ and stability of the region, committed to a policy of mutual friendship and cooperation with its neighbours, the declaration gaid. The leaders of the Afghan mujaheddin parties expressed deep appreciation and gratitude for the support: pf the jehad and for generous hospitality extended to more than five million Afghan refugees by Pakistan and; Iran on their soil, the joint declaration added.(PT)
 V After the t ipartite c- ‘ference the Foreign Minister of Iran,. Ali Akbar Velayati and the Pakistan*s ' Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki addressed a joint press conference at the Foreign office in Islamabad. Akram Zaki said .the meeting provided Pakistan, Iran and Afghan mujaheddin an opportunity to coordinate their efforts for a peaceful settlement. Ali Akbar Velayati said the meeting provided for closer understanding of the Afghan issue and also created an opportunity to both Peshawar and Tehran based mujaheddin organizations to attain close coordination and understanding of their efforts for an early settlement of the Afghanistan problem. He said at the conference it was agreed that Afghan mujaheddin would participate: at the next OIC Foreign Ministers* Conference in Istanbul, non-aligned meeting in Ghana and the General Assembly- session of the UN. (PT)
 A Ac! . ressing a press conference in
254
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991       Will
 Islamabad 30 July the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi welcomed the tripartite conference on Afghanistan and said that mujaheddin leaders had endorsed the joint declaration issued after the conference. He said, "we are trying to evolve a mechanism for the implementation of five point UN peace proposals for which a committee has already started its work". He said we should work out a formula acceptable to all Afghan people which restored the Islamic identity and the independent, sovereign and non-aligned character of Afghanistan. (PT)
 - The three-member delegation of Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf's IIA left the first round of tripartite conference on Afghanistan in protest against it. The Ittehad leaders in a press statement circulated by the ANA in Peshawar 30 July said, "The Iranian side had wished the conference for four-sided compromise i.e. Iran, Pakistan, Iran-based mujaheddin groups and the Afghan mujaheddin based in Pakistan. A direct desire was sensed on Iran's part to break up and divide Afghanistan. Iran's attempts to secure undue share for her supporters in Afghanistan is a naked interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. Iran seems to be bent upon imposing the UN five-point peace plan on the Afghan nation". The statement added, "the Iranians in fact have very little qoncern for the liberation of Afghanistan or for the establishment of an Islamic government there. They are least concerned over the true aims and objectives of the Afghan jehad and they did not come to Islamabad to solve the Afghan issue". (PT)
 “■Before his departure at the end of the     tripartite     conference    on
 Afghanistan, Ali Akbar Velayati, Iranian Foreign Minister, told The Muslim there were some ambiguities in the UN . plan and Iran had sought clarifications from UN Secretary
VOL. 4 NO.4
General, Perez de Cuellar. About Iran's efforts for a consensus among the groups of Afghans engaged in jehad against the Najib regime, Mr. Velayati said categorically. "It is not our task to intervene in' Afghanistan". He stressed for inclusion of all Afghan groups in the formation of the next interim government in Afghanistan. The Iranian Foreign Minister said the Islamabad tripartite talks among Iran, Pakistan and the Afghan leaders of different groups "is a turning point" leading to understanding among them and the "consensus declaration" of 30 July. Iran would hold next round of tripartite talks in Tehran sometime during next month, he said. (MLM)
" The tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Islamabad could not decide about the number of Iran-based Afghan mujaheddin in the mujaheddin's commission during its first session 29 July. Confirming this the Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Velayati, said the issue is still there and it will be settled in the next 45 days in the coming round of tripartite conference.      Meanwhile,       Afghan
mujaheddin representatives told The Jang that Shia Afghan mujaheddin were demanding eight seats in the 28-member mujaheddin's     commission      whereas
Pakistan-based Afghan mujaheddin had agreed to give them five seats. (JG)
" The Operation Salam budget for 1991 has been slashed by 31 million dollars. Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, said that with no immediate end in sight to the conflict in the troubled country and compelling humanitarian needs in other parts of the world, the international community has become immune to the war in Afghanistan and the suffering of the people. (MLM)
* Over 3,000 Kabul regime troops are
255
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HIIiIIHHUlllllU            VOL. 4 NO.
 reported to have surrendered to the mujaheddin in the Takhar province and quoting Afghan commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, VOA reports that the entire Takhar province has fallen to the mujaheddin. Three thousand klashenkovs, 28 tanks and armored .vehicles and some weapons were also seized. in Kabul province also the mujaheddin attacked the regime security posts in Sarobi and Bagrami areas 28 July capturing a number of them. Two tanks were also destroyed. (NTN)
 ■** A commander of the Kabul regime and the Kayani militia battalion deployed around the airbase in Kunduz surrendered to the mujaheddin 27 July. The same day the Qahwa Khana security post . fell to mujaheddin and all the personnel surrendered. The mujaheddin also arrested 10 armed militiamen after capturing a security post in Char Dara the same day and 10 klashenkovs, a machinegun and a rocket launcher fell to the mujaheddin. Mujaheddin killed 15 communists and destroyed two heavy military vehicles in different parts of Zendajan, Herat, 26 July. The same day they arrested two military officers and set ablaze a regime car on the main highway between Herat and Kandahar. Five military cars were set ablaze by them in Greshk district, Helmand, 25 July. Two mujaheddin were also killed and two injured. The mujaheddin set ablaze two tanks, seven ammunition vehicles and two oil tankers in their sudden rocket attack on the regime convoy in Tangi Tashqurghan, Samangan. In Baghlan, two tanks were set ablaze and 11 militiamen were killed on the spot by a mine recently. A military officer and five soldiers defected to the mujaheddin. No loss was suffered by the mujaheddin. In Logar province, 22 militiamen and soldiers and 80 different weapons were captured by the mujaheddin when they launched a joint operation over the security posts in Tangi Waghjan area 24
 July. (PT)
 " The Afghan mujaheddin hav^ captured three security posts on the highway to Kabul and have closed the highway between Jalalabad and Sarobi killing and injuring several Kabul regime troops and disrupting supply of electricity to Jalalabad. (NWT)
                                AUGUST
               1
 " A military arms depot exploded in Kabul and thousands of rockets and missiles including SCUDS fired from the arsenal dropped on the city. Kabgl roads and streets had been littered with corpses, injured persons and missiles fragments. Falling missiles created big cretors on roads. The city was plunged into darkness as a result of columns of black smoke that engulfed the entire city. The citizens thought it was the last day of the world. (NTN)
 * The HIA accepted responsibility of the attack 30 July on ammunition dumps and missile launchers in Kabul city. The special task force of the mujaheddin launched the attack and their rockets and missiles hit th§ regime military installations at Tappa Taj Beg, Darul Atnan and other areas, in the northern suburbs of Kabul. As a result three missile stations for various types of missiles, including SCUDs, a wireless center and a number of tanks were destroyed. A number of ammunition dumps were also destroyed by the mujaheddin time devices. People from other parts of Kabul city watched the colored sky over Darul Aman and its adjoining areas. (PT)
 « A Kabul regime jet fighter was shot down by the Afghan mujaheddin while it was bombing the Wrekhmin Tangi between Sarobi and Jalalabad 31 July.
JULY-SEPTEMBER * 1991
1HNUII0
Meanwhile, the mujaheddin blocked the Kabul-Jalalabad road from Surkhakan up to Sarobir and the regime military installations in Jalalabad were being pounded by them with rockets and heavy artillery. (MLM)
* A UN official welcomed 31 July the approval of the UN plan by the Afghan mujaheddin in the joint declaration issued at the end of the tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Islamabad. The UN official said the support by the signatories to the UN plan could be instrumental in. achieving a settlement of the Afghan conflict. (PT)
» A Pakistan's Foreign Office spokesman told newsmen in Islamabad 31 July that Saudi Arabia had assutred Pakistan of its full support on Afghanistan. This was disclosed at the end of talks between Saudi leaders and the Foreign Secretary, Shaharyar Khan, during his visit to Saudi Arabia, the spokesman said. (PT)
~ In an editorial on tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Islamabad The Pakistan Times says 1 August’:  "Any
solution of the Afghan problem has to lead to the establishment of an elected Islamic government in the country acceptable to the people. The stumbling     block     towards     that
end is the present illegal regime in Kabul*. The conflict in Afghanistan has led to the loss of one and a half'1 million people. In addition more than two million have been disabled and thousands rendered orphans and widows. Besides *‘five million people have been forced to flee their homeland and seek refugee in Pakistan and Iran. To add to their miseries international humanitarian assistance to the refugees is drying up. Seeking a solution to the prevailing crisis, therefore, becomes all the more urgent. The UN has made a move in this direction by presenting a formula but some of its proposals need
 clarification and elaboration. With greater unity being witnessed among the various Afghan groups engaged in the liberation of their country, it is hoped they would come up with concrete proposals to achieve their objective at the next trilateral conference at Tehran. The participation of most of the Afghan factions in the trilateral conference in Islamabad definitely raises hopes for an early solution of the problem". (PT)
 « In its editorial 1 August the daily Jang says it is an undeniable fact that the Afghan resistance was launched because of outside interference in their religious affairs. But after the Soviet withdrawal the US and its allies changed their policies vis-a-vis the Afghan mujaheddin whereas Soviet Union is continuing its support to the Kabul regime unabatedly. After disintegration of communist block and formal relinquishment of communism in the Soviet Union both the US and the Soviet Union have reached a compromise not to allow an Islamic government to be established in Afghanistan. Obviously their approach is contrary to democratic norms to impose a secular government on Afghanistan which is against the aspirations of the people. Instead the super powers should respect the Afghan's aspirations if they are at all interested in peace and stability in the region. (JG)
 * The mujaheddin began their operations on military posts between Darunta and Sarobi, west of Jalalabad and closed the highway to Kabul. Informed sources report that the mujaheddin shot down a jet fighter-bomber on the highway between Kabul and Jalalabad by "stinger" ground-to-air missile 1 August, killing the pilot and all the crew.
      The report adds that Kabul regime long-range artillery fire killed 11 mujaheddin and wounded 17 others.
      Commander Abdul Hag reports that
257
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991      fl(CHANJlHAO                   VOL. 4 NO.4
     the mujaheddin attacked the Mahipar ar.ea 29 July destroying a number of posts and capturing three tanks and five military vehicles. Another report says that the same day the mujaheddin attacked a number of security posts along the Wrekhmin Tangi on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway destroying two arms depots, four tanks and six army vehicles. Two mujaheddin commanders were also killed during * these operations.
          In two separate attacks on the Kabul regime forces at Shakar Dara, near Kabul, the HIA (Hekmatyar) mujaheddin forced two battalions of. militia and frontier units to surrender. Commander Abdul and six other murjaheddin were martyred during these operations.
          Another battalion surrendered when the mujaheddin attacked Deh Sabz and Bagrami districts of Kabul. Seven militiamen were killed and another 21 captured. Two of the mujaheddin were also killed. (VOAPS)
     * According to a • JIA report the mujaheddin of- Shaheed Niazi base and those form Gozarah attacked military posts at Pashtun Zarghoon district, Herat 16 July, killing eight militiamen and capturing 10. An enemy tank was destroyed and 10 pieces of various types of arms were captured. One mujahed was killed and three injured in these operations. In retaliatory measures, the Kabul regime shelled a number of villages in the area killing nine civilians. (VOIRA)
                         2
     » Commenting on the joint declaration of tripartite conference on Afghanistan *    in  Islamabnad  the Chief of the HIA,
     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, "It is good omen that all the parties to the conflict have declared the Najib regime
 as illegal and have demanded his unconditional removal". He said the parties unanimously agreed on the establishment of an elected government in Afghanistan and rejected the proposal for the formation of a coalition government. He said if the mujaheddin reached any conclusion on the UN plan they will send joint delegations to the, Islamic countries, including Iran. (MLM)
 - A five-member AIG delegation arrived
 in Istanbul 1 August to participate in the 20th Islamic Foreign Ministers' Conference 4-8 August at the OIC invitation. Leader of the delegation. Prof. Rabbani said:    "We will present
 our case before the conference and hope the conference will support it fully".
 (MLM)
 **. Quoting Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the HIA leader,the Shahadat says, "The proposal regarding establishment of a coalition government in Afghanistan has been presented as a political concession to the Soviet Union by the US and the West". He said the recent successes of the Afghan mujaheddin have proved that the Kabul regime cannot stand for long and requires only a last blow for which the mujaheddin were preparing. He said the Afghan jehad is nearing final victory and the Kabul regime army is disintegrating. He also said that the Soviet Union has agreed to replace * the present Kabul regime with an interim set up. (NWT)
 - A large quantity of ammunition fell to the mujaheddin and four regime soldiers were captured in joint attack by the mujaheddin over regime's security posts in Shindad 26 July. The mujaheddin also captured two tanks and four military trucks. (PT)
 ■» In a hand-written letter smuggled out of a Soviet prison 15 July a Tadjik Muslim prisoner, Daulatov Elias Abdur
258
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 Rahman, has appealed to the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and HIA Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to secure his release by exchanging him. with some Red Army POWs. He has said he joined the Afghan mujaheddin and fought alongside with them against the Russian occupation army. He says, on his return home through a clandestine route he was arrested by the KGB border guards and was subsequently movedj to the political detention centre in Tadjikistan, (pt)
 * A 5-man Afghan delegation, headed by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the JIA, has left for Turkey to attend the 20th blC ministerial conference. The members of the delegation are Dr. Najibullah Lafrai, Esmail Siddiqi, Siddiq Saljuqi and Hamed Karzai.
 (VOADS)
                    3
 " In their joint attack on regime security posts in Arghandeh area of Paghman district, Kabul 31 July 10 security posts were destroyed and a number of regime soldiers were killed and wounded by the mujaheddin. Six security posts, were also captured by them at Pul-e-Surkh area of Wardak province the same day. Meanwhile, a number of civilians were reported killed or wounded in indiscriminate bombings of the Kabul regime of Paktia province 31 July. This is for the first time during the past 12 years that civilians of the area came under such a heavy air attack. The mujaheddin also besieged Gardaiz and ipflicted heavy human and material losses to the regime forces 31 July. in their heavy artillery attack at Lashkargah, Helmand, 26 July 20 militiamen were killed and five others injured and a building accomodating militiamen was destroyed by the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 * Thirteen military posts, three tanks and two armored cars were captured by
 VOL- 4 NO-4
 the mujaheddin since 1 August in Nangarhar province, reports ANA. (PT)
 •* The Afghan mujaheddin say they have besieged Jalalabad city and shot down a Kabul regime fighter. VOA quoting MIDIA says the mujaheddin have closed the Jalalabad-Kabul highway. Severe clashes are continuing around Jalalabad and the mujaheddin claim to have captured Kherokhail and Surkhakan areas killing 70 regime soldiers. * one hundred and five others defected to the mujaheddin. (NWT)
 " Two bridges in the Wrekhmin Tangi
 were destroyed and three security posts
 were captured by the mujaheddin. Six
 other posts in the Aziz Khan Kas also
 fell to the mujaheddin in their attacks
 on the regime forces 1 August. One tank
 was destroyed and two others and an
 artillery cannon were captured. In
 their operations in other areas along
 the road the same day they seized many
 different types of heavy and light
 weapons and four trucks. A number of
 regime     soldiers     defected     to
 the mujaheddin. Mujaheddin also fired
 missiles over the military positions
 and Jalalabad Airbase. Fifteen Kabul
 regime forces were killed and 10 others
 wounded and two security posts were
 destroyed 27 July in Parwan province
 when the mujaheddin attacked' the regime
 security posts in Bagram Airbase. Three
 regime tanks and three vehicles. were
 also destroyed in the operation. (PT)
                                   >
 " Addressing a gathering of the Afghan refugees at Loralai 2 August the Pakistan Federal Minister, Sardar Yaqub Khan Nasar said that Pakistan would extend its humanitarian assistance to the refugees until the Afghanistan problem is solved. (PT)
 - Akram Zaki, Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Af'fairs,' tfas said in Ankara that the Afghan problem cannot      be       solved      without
259
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
HAN Jll
VOL. 4 NO.4
mujaheddin. The fate of Kabul is co be decided by Afghan leaders and none of them is prepared to talk to Najibullah, he said. Pakistan, he said, has decided to make the joint declaration of the Islamabad tripartite conference on Afghanistan an official document of the. UN General Assembly. (NWT)
*  Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special representative, has said the joint declaration of the( Islamabad tripartite conference on Afghanistan is a positive response to the UN plan for Afghanistan. He said it was the first step in the right direction and a good beginning, but it was by no means a solution to the problem. He said the UN Secretary General, or his representative or any other non-Afghan individual had no authority to remove Najibullah and only the Afghans can decide about it. (NWT)
*  Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy for the mujaheddin, has disclosed that the US and the USSR have been discussing the Afghanistan issue since two years now but without much progress. The two major factors attributing to the lack of progress, he said, were the Soviet disagreement on the cut of arms supplies to the belligerent parties and its insistence on keeping Najib in power, whereas, the US desires his removal. He said that talks between the two sides would continue despite differences in their stands.
 (VOADS)            f
                    4
 * The OIC senior, officials' meeting in Istanbul 3 August unanimously decided to include the Kashmir and Afghanistan issues in the agenda of the 20th OIC Foreign Minister's Conference opening in Istanbul later the same day. (MLM) *
 *  In an open letter to the foreign ministers of OIC in Istanbul the- AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf,
 has called upon them not to support the UN plan for Afghanistan. The letter said that "the plan was a cleverely prepared trap of deceit and treachery". It advised the OIC "not to become a party to the conspiracies which had been hatched for the destruction of the nation's noble objectives. It said "all the Afghan sacrifices were made to set up a true Islamic government in Afghanistan and the decision of the OIC would go down in history". The letter said that the real driving force behind the UN plan was the joint Soviet-American conspiratorial agreement. (NTN) .
 -   Addressing a one-day Seminar arranged by WUFA in Peshawar 3 August, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said that the UN plan had some positive points and could make the job easy for the mujaheddin. He said it was need of the hour that peace ptoposals on the issue should be considered in the interest of the Afghan people. He welcomed the decisions of the Islamic tripartite conference on Afghanistan and said that all the mujaheddin groups had agreed to form a national government. He said he h,ad suggested the conference to call a jirgah of all groups in an impartial country like Switzerland or Australia and constitute a committee for selection of the members of Shoora. Most of the speakers at the seminar rejected the UN proposals saying that accepting the UN plan would be contrary to the objectives of the ^ong Afghan jehad. The first session of the seminar was presided over by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and was also addressed by Abdur Rahman Pazwak, ex-envoy of Afghanistan to the UN. (NTN)
 - Wakhan, a district of Badakhshan province was captured by the Afghan mujaheddin 31 July with all responsible Kabul regime personnel surrendering to the mujaheddin. Meanwhile, 20 armored
260
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 cars and tanks and a number of military posts alongwith 116 soldiers and 26 officers were captured by mujaheddin in different places in the west of Nangarhar province. In Surkhakan and Mashadi Tana 12 armored cars and huge quantities of ammunition were captured. The mujahfeddin also captured the military base of Mula Umer in Sarobi district of Kabul where they captured 14 armored vehicles and military tanks and ammunition. In Darunta west of Jalalabad city mujaheddin detonated an ammunition dump by firing long-range rockets. Fighting has also been continuing between the regime forces and the mujaheddin around defense lines of Herat city for a week in which 21 regime troops were killed and two tanks and an armored vehicle were destroyed in clashes from 26-28 July. An ammunition depot at Zendajan and artillery positions near Qala-e-Nau were also destroyed. (PT)
 *  In their four-day operation 30 July-2 August the Afghan mujaheddin liberated 10 villages of Faryab province where some 3,000 militiamen surrendered to the mujaheddin with a large amount of arms and ammunition. Two regime posts were captured and two ammunition depots set ablaze 2 August in a new attack on Jalalabad. The mujaheddin also *• captured Sheghnan district in Badakhshan 31 July. (MLM) *
 *  Two persons were killed and six others injured seriously when a Kabul regime SCUD missile hit an area near
                                                                                                        A
 Khyber rifles check post at Pakistan-Afghanistan border 3 August. (JG)
 *  The Mujaheddin claim that they have captured Wakhan in Badakhshan Province. The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, is reported to have said, "we have succeeded to capture the Roof of the World" which borders Tadjikistan, China and Pakistan on three sides. The region has been liberated under the command of JIA commander Waseq. (VOAPS)
 * Mujaheddin sources close to. HI A (Khales)         say that .the mujaheddin
 attacked        military bases between
 Surkhakan and Sarobji. 2 August capturing
 12 armored cars, two tanks, one Cannon and two heavy machine guns* They had also captured the military headquarters at Aziz Khan Katz and Kaftarkhana 1 August. Eighty-five military personnel, including 26 officers, were also captured         in these operations. One
 mujahed was killed and 7 injured. The source adds in their attack on military positions in Surkhakan and the center of Laghman 2 August, the mujaheddin captured an important Kabul regime base, several military vehicles and ammunition. (VOAPS)
                   5
 .* Speaking at the inaugural meeting of the 20th 01C Foreign Ministers' Conference in Istanbul 4 August the OIG Secretary General asked the conference to recognize the right of the Afghan people to determine their . own political, economic and social systems without auy^ foreign pressure's. Any solution to the Afghan problem, he said, should include the return of the Afghan refugees from Pakistan arid Iran to their homes with dignity and honor.; (NTN)
 -  A 10-member delegation of the All-Mujaheddin Great Islami Front presented a few proposals to UN envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, 4 August for the early and peaceful settlement of the Afghan problem. The delegation told the UN envoy that the peace-loving Afghans were of the opinion that the UN formula was not only fruitful to them but would also bring an end to bloodshed in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 -  Addressing a press conference in Quetta press club Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI Urged the OIC foreign ministers' conference to find solutions
261
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991       AlGHAUlffll                  VOL. 4  NO.4
 to Afghanistan and Kashmir issues acceptable to the people of Afghanistan and Kashmir. (JG)
 •*' Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Amir of HEIA has rejected any possibility of dialogue or a coalition with the Kabul regime Watan Party and said that only the Afghans have the right to decide their future. (NWT)
 *  In their four-day operation 26-29
 July the Afghan, mujaheddin have liberated    Zebak  in   Badakhshan  and
 Chah-e-Aab and Rostak, Takhar Province where the commanders of the regime forces in the areas surrendered to the mujaheddin. Over 20 regime troops and six mujaheddin    were    killed in  the
 operation.  Arms  and   ammunition were
 also captured by the mujaheddin. The mujaheddin   are reported to have   been
 tightening their siege of Faizabad and Kabul regime is making frantic efforts to protect it. (PT)
 *  Radio Kabul says that at least five persons were killed in rocket attack on Mehtarlam, Laghman. In retaliation the Kabul regime forces shelled mujaheddin positions in which 16 mujaheddin were killed. (VOAPS)
                     6
  * The mujaheddin shot down a regime military helicopter 5 August while it was straffing their positions in Zurmat, Paktia, killing the pilot and all the eight crewmen. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin in a surprise attack captured Mashal post 5 August on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway and repulsed a regime attack in Sarobi areas recently captured by the mujaheddin. Six regime
 \troops were ‘ killed and 13 injured! in the clashes. Mujaheddin also destroyed six security posts of the Kabul regime in ^Laghman 4 August and seized three tanks and considerable quantity of arms and ammunition, (PT)
 « Addressing the 20th OIC Foreign Ministers' Conference in Istanbul 5 August the leader of the Pakistan delegation, Akram Zaki, said the impediments to the formation of a broad-based government in Afghanistan, the brazen denial of the right of self determination to the people of Kashmir, the continued occupation of Arab lands including the holy city of Al-Quds and the continued usurpation of national rights of the Palestinians are problems that continue to beset the Ummah and demand our immediate and concerted attention. (PT)
 “ Following the announcement of general amnesty from the Afghan mujaheddin,1 200 troops of Sayed Kayan Militia joined the mujaheddin in Kunduz city 29 July, reports AAP. The. same day the mujaheddin captured the Qahwa Khana post where 12 troops and their officer surrendered. Earlier 10 regime troops were captured, after brief fighting, by the mujaheddin in the surroundings of Kunduz. (PT)
 7 A large number of women and children demonstrated in the besieged city of Jalalabad 4 August seeking whereabouts of their husbands, brothers and sons. The furious women pelted stones on regime tanks and raised slogans against the Najib regime. (PT)
 * According to reports, HI A (Khales) mujaheddin have captured the Surkhakan bridge and the important Mashaal post on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway. Meanwhile, Kabul regime forces attacked mujaheddin positions at Darunta and Sarobi but were repulsed by the mujaheddin who put up a stiff resistance killing six officers and wounding 13 militiamen.         •
      In Logar Province the mujaheddin shot down a helicopter by a Stinger rocket at Kharwar. Resistance sources report from' Badakhshan the mujaheddin
262
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
                                                                                VOL- 4 NO-4
 occupied the Shighnan district 31 July. According to the report apart from the
 center and the Darwaz district, the whole of Badakhshan has now fallen to the mujaheddin. A report from Herat says that fighting continued between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces. in several villages around Zendajan 2-3 August in which an ammunition dump and one tank were destroyed and 53 military personnel were killed or wounded. (VOAPS)
 * An FAO official and his three Afghan colleagues who were kidnapped by armed bandits near the border area a few days ago were got released by Pakistani para-troopers. (BBCPS)
 * According to a Radio Kabul broadcast five persons were killed and several injured when mujaheddin fired rockets on the city.
                    7
 « The Kabul regime has transported a large number of SCUDs to Jalalabad and an eye witness said he saw 150 SCUDs mounted on mobile launchers pointed toward the mujaheddin-held areas of Nangarhar and some security posts on Pakistan-Afghanistan border. Meanwhile, a number of AAF pilots staged a hunger strike against the failure of Kabul regime to control the precarious situation in Afghanistan. A number of pilots have quit their jobs thinking they were fighting without any purpose or reward. (NTN)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin frustrated a Kabul regime attempt to supply fresh army to a besieged post destroying three tanks and killing 13 soldiers in Tangi area between Kabul and Jalalabad 6 August. (NTN)
 ? The Turkish Prime Minister supported the Pakistan's Afghanistan
 Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, called on him in Istanbul 6 August. (PT)
 ** Indian security forces are searching for Afghan mujaheddin believed to have entered occupied Kashmir to help Muslim freedom fighters there, senior officials said in Srinagar 6 August, However, a spokesman for leading Kashmir liberation groups denied Afghan involvement in liberation struggles, (PT)
 " Soviet officials met in Peshawar with the AIG Acting Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, to seek the release of Soviet POWs. The Soviets were told that the release of Afghan POWs was a pre-condition to this measure, (NWT)
 * The mujaheddin carried out a surprize attack on the security posts around Lashkargah, Helmand, 6 August capturing 17 of them. Two hundred troops and militiamen were killed.and a large quantity of arms were captured and two officers also surrendered to the mujaheddin. Four mujaheddin were also killed and 40 injured. Another two security posts were captured 5 August. (VOADS)
                  8
 ^ In a mujaheddin attack ovei; regime posts in areas near Zendjan district, Herat, 5 August two regime officers were killed and one injured. Thirty-seven soldiers were killed and injured in Qala-e-Malaki area and several vehicles were destroyed 3 August, The mujaheddin killed 17 soldiers and militiamen in other areas of Zendajan 2 August. One mujahed was also injured, A mine explosion in Pul-e-Bazarak area of Zendajan destroyed a Kabul regime tank killing all those oh board. Twenty-five officers and soldiers were killed and several others were injured 1 August in*
                                                                            principled stand . on and Kashmir issues when
                                                                                                    263
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
ItflNJII
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Gereshk district of Helmand province. A regime security post was destroyed and a large number of militiamen and troops were killed and a tank and three military vehicles set on fire when mujaheddin launched their operation in Ghazni 1 August, The commander of the post defected to the mujaheddin, (NTN)
 * Four Arabs were killed when their vehicle hit a landmine in Kunar province, (NTN)
 -  A Soviet delegation arrives in Islamabad 11 August for urgent talks on Afghanistan, said a Foreign office spokesman in Islamabad 7 August. (MLM)
 f sheghnan district, Badakhshan, fell to the mujaheddin and 66 regime militiamen were killed or injured and 300 were captured. Twenty-four cannons of different kinds and 500 klashenkovs were also recovered from militia barracks. Three mujaheddin were killed and eight injured. Six soldiers and militiamen were killed, four injured and three posts were captured by the mujaheddin 5 August in Nahreen district. Two mujaheddin were also killed, (PT)
 ” The Kabul regime has arrested 15 high ranking army and KHAD officials for interrogation to probe the Taj Beg ammunition dump blasts, reports ana. (PT)
 * A Kabul regime land offensive on Farman Khel area was foiled by the mujaheddin 5 August, In retaliation they destroyed three ammunition dumps in Darunta killing 13 soldiers and destroying three tanks, The mujaheddin also raided Mehtarlam pity killing at least nine soldiers and officers. And ip Surkhakan all the regime posts surrendered to the mujaheddin. Two tanksf pne pm-16 and one bm-14 missile launchers were seized intact from the posts, (PT)
 - The mujaheddin attacked the Kandahar
 Airport and badly damaged the runway and the installations 2 August. (NWT)
 *  The second round of tripartite talks on Afghanistan will begin in Tehran 27 August, said a Pakistan Foreign office spokesman in Islamabad.(JG)
 *  An exhibition on Afghan war has opened in Moscow. Most important aspect of the exhibition is that it displays the experiences of those troops who personally took part in the war. (PT)
 *  The     mujaheddin have   foiled  an
 attempt by the Kabul regime troops to open Kabul-Jalabad highway. Three tanks were captured in the operation and eight regime troops surrendered to the mujaheddin. One mujahed was also killed and another injured. (JG)
 *  The' mujaheddin attacked the Shirin Tagab district, Faryab, 30 July liberating another 10 villages. A number of militiamen were also captured and a quantity of arms seized. Two tanks were also captured intact but three mujaheddin were killed and four injured during the operations. Another report says that the mujaheddin carried out an operation on Daulatabad, Faryab,. 29 July in which 60 militiamen were, killed. (VOADS)
 *  MIDIA reports from Kabul that a blast in an arms depot at Tapa-e-Tajbeg, Kabul 31 July killed and injured a large number of officers and troops. The Kabul regime has arrested 15 army personnel in connection with the blast. ANA reports that the Gelam Jam militiamen, the Special Guard and the HIA mujaheddin had a hand in causing the blast in which a large number of missiles, including SCUDst were destroyed. (VOADS)
                   9
 " The five-day OIC Foreign Ministers* Conference in Istanbul has, in a
264
JULY-SEPTCMBER, 1991                                WfCHJIfilltHIlfl                                     VOL.   4  NO.4
 resolution, declared its support for the UN Secretary General in his efforts to promote a political settlement in Afghanistan and requested the OIC Secretary General to cooperate with the yN chief in his endeavors. The .conference called for the formation of a broad-based government in Afghanistan and creation of necessary conditions for the safe and honorable repatriation of refugees. (PT)
 - Benon Sevan, special envoy of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan, told the Kabul regime Prime Minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, at a meeting in Kabul 7 August that the international community supported talks aimed at seeking a political ^solution to the Afghan problem and the return of Afghan refugees to their homes. He appreciated the stand taken by the Kabul regime in this connection. Benon Sevan also apprised the regime Prime Minister about the results of his contacts in seeking a political solution to the Afghan problem. The Kabul regime Prime Minister expressed the regime's readiness for cooperation with the UN plan.
 ;mlm)
     A spokesman of the AIG Prime Minister's Secretariat denied 8 August the Indian allegation that Afghan mujaheddin were /fighting against the Indian forces in occupied Kashmir. The spokesman said the Kashmiri people's struggle was totally indigenous inspired by their popular will to die a death of martyr rather than live under foreign yoke. The spokesman criticised the Indian Government for interfering in the affairs of Afghanistan and described • it as India's hostile attitude towards the Afghan, people. (NTN) *•
 *• A mujaheddin commander, Ziarat Gul, was killed when a regime missile hit him while fighting against the regime forces at Surkhakan on Jalalabad-Kabul
 highway 7 August.        Four        of  his
 mujaheddin were injured. Meanwhile, a regime post was captured in a mujaheddin surprise      attack       at Qara
 Bagh. Twelve regime soldiers, 15 klashenkovs and four ZK-1 were captured in the operation. (PT)
 * The mothers of        missing Russian
 soldiers have asked the Kabul regime to release the mujaheddin POWs so that their sons may be traced easily. The mothers, who have been staying in Kabul for 20 days, accused the regime Deputy Defense Minister, Lt. General Sheikh Mohammad Bower, of telling lie when he said he had done someting in this regard but failed to present evidence. (PT)
 *  Ziarat Gul, an IIA commander, has been killed at Surkhakan, on the Jalalabad - Kabul highway recently.
 (VOAPS)
 *  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the JIA, told reporters upon return from the 20th OIC sessions in Istanbul that the Muslim Umma supported the mujaheddin stand unanimously and promised every cooperation during the reconstruction of Afghanistan. They also urged the international community for cooperation in this respeOt, particularly the Islamic Bank. He said it was also advised that these countries should continue their support to the • Afghan refugees. ' "The declaration at the end of the conference stated that the Islamic nations should continue their assistance until the total liberation of Afghanistan, restoration of its sovereignty and Islamic character void of foreign intervention", he' said. Prof. , Rabbani added that the declaration also envisaged the inclusion of the Afghanistan issue in the forthcoming OIC foreign ministers conference in Senegal. (VOAPS)
265
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991    flffiHJUf JIIII10
                  10
 * Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan, met the Kabul regime President Najibullah in his office in Kabul 8 August and apprised him of the nature of UN efforts for a political settlement of the Afghan problem in the context of the UN plan. The regime President has completely agreed to the UN plan for Afghanistan. (MLM)
 - In a surprise mujaheddin attack on Ghazni 20 regime troop's were killed and a tank, and three armored vehicles were destroyed 3 August.. Thirty regime troops, including two officers, joined the mujaheddin, and they together moved towards the cantonment and inflicted severe losses to the regime forces capturing a huge quantity of ammunition and a machine gun. Threeimujaheddin were also killed in the operation. The next day the AAF bombed the surroundings df Ghazni city destroying several houses, killing six Civilians and injuring 50 others.
      In Logar the mujaheddin captured two security posts in Mohammad Aga district . 9 August, inflicting severe losses on the regime forces and seizing considerable quantity of arms.In Kulan-.gar area two security posts were destroyed and all the regime personnel deployed there were killed by the mujaheddin. (PT)
     The Kabul regime cabinet has dismissed all the bravery titles of those killed in fightings against the mujaheddin. (PT)
 " The Kabul regime is reportedly seeking to stop the war in Herat which is continuing for two months and causing heavy financial and human losses to the regime forces. The regime has accused General - Abdul Rauf for
 VOL. 4 NO.4 mmmmmmmmrnm
 igniting this war in the western zone for which he might be removed or taken for a military trial. (PT)
 *  VO A, quoting mujaheddin sources in Peshawar,1 said the Kabul regime troops have recaptured Sarobi breaking the siege of the highway linking Jalalabad and Kabul. (JG)
 •* Reliable sources say the UNHCR has started diverting the Afghan relief supplies to victims of other countries including Kurd refugees of Iraq. (JG)
 *  According to Bakhtar News Agency in fierce fighting on the Jalalabad-Kabul Highway 65 mujaheddin were killed, several armored cars destroyed and a mujaheddin arms and ammunition depot was seized by the Kabul regime forces.
 (VOAPS)
 *  AAP reports that in a mujaheddin attack on the south-eastern section of Helmand Province 5 August 13' array personnel were killed and several others injured. Another report says that a. helicopter carrying 30 Kabul regime VIPs was shot down in Logar. Meanwhile, a bomb explosion in a refugee bus on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas killed three of the refugee passengers. (VOIRA)
 *  A conference was held for reviewing the UN Secretary-General’s peace plan for Afghanistan in Peshawar 3 August which was attended by mujaheddin and refugee representatives. The morning session of the conference was presided over by the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and the afternoon session by Senator Ghulam Nabi Chaknuri. Those who addressed the conference included Abdur Rahman Pazhwak, Ishaq Gailani, Sayyed Mohammad- Ali Javaid, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, Eng. Abdur Rahim (JIA), Hamed Ibrahimi . (HIA), Mohammad Hakeem Ayoubi, former Afghan Consul General in Karachi, and Commander Abdul Haq. (BBCPS)
266
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991       flfGHflNJH1AB            VOL. 4 NO.4
               li
 " Two hundred regime soldiers, militiamen and officers were killed or wounded in mujaheddin operations 4-9 August in Greshk district, Helmand. Twenty-five mujaheddin were also killed and more than 100 injured in the operations. The Kandahar-Herat highway has been closed and only mujaheddin's vehicles are using it. In Mohammad Aga district eight regime posts were destroyed and three tanks were set ablaze by the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 * Addressing the inaugural session of the newly elected Majlis-e-Shoora of his party in Lahore 10 August Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, said that the Afghanistan jehad has entered its final stages and doors were being opened in Samarkant, Bokhara and Tashkent to welcome the Islamic movement. The success of the Afghan resistance, he said, had given a new ray of hope to the oppressed people of occupied Kashmir and this had also encouraged the Indian Muslims. He said that world community was. afraid of Islamic movements and- were out to unitedly destroy them. (MLM)
 " VOA quoting Benon Sevan, UN special envoy for Afghanistan, has reported progress in efforts for a political solution of the Afghan problem. The UN envoy did not elaborate on his talks with Najibilllah. (NWT)
 + MIDIA reports from Kabul the regime's communist party has lost control over its administration as many new parties have emerged in Khalq and Parcham factions of PDPA. Most of the ranking authorities in the regime ministries are practicing nepotism on a large scale. The incidents of looting and bribery are increasing day by day end different departments of the regime have failed to control the situation in
 Afghanistan, Kabul city is also facing medicine shortage and the hospitals could not provide medical Services* People of Kabul city take only a piece s of bread and tea for their meals with only a few affording sugar with their tea, (PT)
 *  An HIA (Khales) speaker said that during mujaheddin operations on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway 1-9 August 400 officers, troops and militiamen were killed and nearly 200 captured. Sixty army vehicles were destroyed, three T-55 tanks, two BM-41 and four BM-16 were captured* Twenty-one mujaheddin, including three commanders, were killed and another 40 wounded. (VO APS-)
                  12
 *  The visiting Soviet. Ambassador Nikolai Kozeyrev, who called on President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 11 August, agreed with . the President that the resolution of the Afghan issue could give a green signal for the expansion of cooperation in a vast range Of fields. The delegation also requested Pakistan's assistance in securing the release of Soviet POWs and the President assured them of whatever Pakistan was in a position to do. (PT)
 » In formal talks between the Soviet
 t
 delegation led by Ambassador Nikolai Kozeyrev and the Pakistan delegation led by the Foreign Secretary, Shaharyar Khan,both sides discussed the question, of Afghanistan particularly in the context of the recent moves made by Pakistan, the Soviet Union and the UN for a political settlement. Both sides agreed to continue their efforts in this respect. (PT)
 *  Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, told the Soviet delegation in Islamabad 11 August that Pakistan had endorsed the UN Secretary- General's peace plan and
267
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 had taken an initiative for a speedy resolution of the Afghanistan question through consultations with . the USSR, the USA, Saudi Arabia and Iran. (PT)
 * A spokesman of the mujaheddin Military Council in Paktia told AAP that the Afghan mujaheddin recently blasted an • ammunition dump near Gardaiz. They also killed or injured 45 Kabul regime troops in their raid. The. mujaheddin remained unhurt in the operation. (PT)
 - Fifteen Kabul regime troops were killed and 20 others injured and' five military vehicles were destroyed 7 August when mujaheddin* launched their operations on regime security posts in Chardihi district of Kabul. Eight KHAD agents were also killed and five others injured in Bagh-e-Dawoud area.
    In Chaghcharan, Ghor, some posts were destroyed 'and 12 regime militiamen and soldiers were killed and a number of others were injured 8 August. One soldier defected to the mujaheddin.
      In °Kandahar a number of regime posts were destroyed by the mujaheddin at the airport. Two militiamen were killed and five wounded.
      Several regime troops were killed and a post was destroyed in Arghandi, Paghman district near Kabul 8 August.
      Five regime militiamen were killed and six others were captured 7 August in Hazrat-e-Sultan sub district of Samangan.
      In Logar province the centers of the police and KHAD forces and several other regime's strongholds were burnt in Pul-e-Alam 8 August and a number of regime troops were killed or injured and two tanks were destroyed. The mujaheddin also destroyed a regime stronghold at Qala-e-Hajian the same
 date killing 12 officers and soldiers and injuring 15 others. In retaliation the, regime's airforce severely bombarded mujaheddin positions which caused no casualties. (PT).
 *  Addressing a rally of the Afghan
 mujaheddin in Karachi Haji Ali Jan, a mujaheddin representative, said the recent     tripartite  conference     on
 Afghanistan in Islamabad proved the Afghan mujaheddin a*e united for their cause  and are determined to establish a
 truly     Islamic     government     in
 Afghanistan. He said the Islamabad conference should make it clear to the super powers and other enemies of the Afghan cause that their Struggle would continue till the final victory. He said every day brings new victories to the mujaheddin. (NTN)
 *  In  an  interview  in Peshawar Ahmad
 r
 Shah, the IIA deputy leader said "we will boycott all meetings on the Afghan issue which we regard -as a naked interference in our internal affairs and inconsistent with the Islamic objectives of jehad. During the Islamabad talks, the unfriendly, undiplomatic and threatening behavior of Iranian representatives became unbearable and forced us to boycott it". (NTN.)
 *  The Bombay Times, quoting informed sources in Kabul,said the Kabul regime ruler Najibullah undertook a secret visit to Moscow but could not meet"the Soviet President, Gorbachev. The Soviet authorities are understood to have told Najibullah to hand-over power to opposition under a guarantee of his presence in the government. (NWT)
 *  An 80-man mine clearance team related to UN technical advisors (ITC), who have been working in Bamian since last year, reported that they have so far cleared an area of 3,882 sqm. Priority was given to this province on
268
 JULY-SEPTEMBER> 1991        HfEHflHJtllAfl             VOL. 4  NO.4
account of its historical relics - the Budha statues. (VOADS)
                   13
 * In a resolution adopted in a Majlis-e-Shoora at Mansoora, JI said the Soviet Union, the US , and other imperialist forces did not like an Islamic government in Afghanistan and were instead trying to bring in a secular set-up to match their requirements. To achieve this objective, it said, they were trying every method in the garb of peace and political solution. The resolution also appealed to the Muslim Ummah to extend maximum support to Afghan mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *. Talking to newsmen at the handing pver ceremony of a Soviet POW in exchange for 25 mujaheddin in Islamabad 12 ' August, Soviet Ambassador-at-large Kozeyrev said the Afghan mujaheddin and the regime in Kabul were "two realities" and that Afghan conflict would not be resolved unless they talked to each other. He contended that it was for the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime to stop the war in Afghanistan. However, he said, his government was ready to contribute, along with Iran, the US, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan in the UN efforts to that end. (PT)
 " Speaking after two-day consultations with the visiting Soviet Ambassador, Kozeyrev, Pakistan Foreign Secretary, Shaharyar Khan said 12 August that Kabul regime President Najibullah loomed large on the political scene but the Soviet envoy had been told, that the one point on which all the Afghans outside Afghanistan were united was the fact that they all said "no to Najib. He said, even if there is an agreement on an intra^-Afghan dialogue that Najib himself would not be there, a representative of the Kabul regime would be present . Mr. Shaharyar
 said that the Soviets indicated their keenness to continue with fresh rounds in Moscow pending the results of Tehran trilateral meeting.
      The Foreign Secretary admitted that there was no breakthrough in the talkrs in the Foreign office between the Soviet side and the Afghan mujaheddin. The officials of the Foreign Office did not participate in these direct talks.
 (NTN)
 *  Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 12 August Qurban Ali, a Soviet POW, recently released by the Afghan mujaheddin, said he was treated well during his captivity where he spent most of his time in sports and reading. (NWT)
 *  Speaking to Nikolai Kozeyrev, Soviet
 Deputy Foreign Minister currently visiting Pakistan as the head of a Soviet      delegation    to      discuss
 Afghanistan issue, Pakistan Prime Minister, Nawaz Sharif, 12 August urged all the concerned states to coordinate their efforts for resolving the problem honorably and swiftly. (NTN)
  * in their first official contact a
  f
 Soviet delegation * and a mujaheddin delegation met in Eshkashem district, Badakhshan for talks on bilateral border issues. The talks stressed that both sides should not interfere -in the internal affairs of each other. The Soviets demanded that all the Soviet nationals who defected to mujaheddin should be sent back. (NTN)
  *  A high level Pakistani delegation headed by Senate Chairman, Wasim Sajjad, was assured during discussions with the Chinese Foreign Minister of their support for Pakistan's efforts to find a peaceful solution in Kashmir and Afghanistan. (PT)
  ** Speaking at a meeting of the ruling
269
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Watan Party, the Kabul regime President Najibullah, declared support for the UN peace plan saying that a political solution to the Afghan problem was the only alternative to peace. (MLM)
 *  The Soviet delegation led by Nikolai Kozerev suggested if the mujaheddin delegation did not wish to meet the Kabul regime directly they could hold indirect talks. The Soviet delegation admitted that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was a big mistake.
      The delegation expressed their appreciation over the release of the Soviet POWs and urged the release of others. The mujaheddin told the delegation that the Kabul regime held thousands of their POWs in the Pul-e-Charkhi and other prisons in Afghanistan and over 10,000 other prisoners were held in the Soviet Union - who should be properly cared for. The POW question was part of the entire Afghan issue, they said. (VOADS)
 *  The Deputy Chief of the IIA, Eng. Ahmad Shah, accusing Iran of interfering in' the internal affairs of Afghanistan said, "Iran, which calls itself the guardian of Islam and Islamic revolutions, is creating stumbling blocks in the path of our jehad and is meddling in our internal affairs and in protest to all' these ,we have decided not to attend the Tehran tripartite talks". Commenting on the overall situation, Eng. Ahmad Shah said the AIG position was not quite upto standards but it was hoped the Shoora of ahl-e-hal wa aqd would soon adopt necessary decisions in this regard. (VOAPS) .
                                               14
                                                           " The Afghan mujaheddin captured 21 tsecurity posts in Greshk district, Helmand province,9 August, reports ANA. Six regime personnel and arms were also
captured by them and 20 soldiers were killed in the fierce battle.
     In a face-to-face battle in Chagcharan, Ghor province, 12 regime soldiers and four mujaheddin were killed 10 August. Mujaheddin in an ambush at Qishla-e-Jadeed, Kandahar destroyed two military trucks killing two regime soldiers and injuring five.
     Three regime tanks were destroyed inflicting heavy losses on regime forces in different clashes in Herat province.
     The mujaheddin killed six regime soldiers and destroyed one tank at Qala-e-Jamali in Zendajan district. (NTN)
     The Kabul regime has banned the weekly Azadi (Freedom) and arrested its editor Ghulam Sakhi Ghairat. The paper had recently published excerpts from an article on mujaheddin leader Ahmad Shah Masood. (PTj
" The Nation says in its editorial 14 August it is indeed a. welcome development in our region that the bilateral talks between visiting Soviet delegation and Pakistani officials and the Soviet-Afghan mujaheddin, have made some headway. While the Soviets have indicated a keenness to continue with their efforts for a solution in a new round of talks in Moscow, the
Government of Pakistan has for the
        - - • ' - - ------------- »
first time said it will not oppose if Kabul     government      representative
attended an intra-Afghan dialogue. One hopes that the willingness on the part of all the parties concerned to abandon the path of a military solution in favor of a negotiated settlement would soon lead to a workable solution of the problem. (NTN)
* The UNHCR Chief and his deputy have submitted a proposal to Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan asking him to
270
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991                                fllflllllllJ1HA8                                     VOL.   4  Mb.4
 issue Pakistani passports to those Afghan refugees who do not wish to be repatriated to Afghanistan. But' the UNHCR Deputy Chief denied a report to this effect which was published in the Frontier Post recently. (BBCPS)
 *  Mushahed Hussain, a well-known Pakistani journalist, said Pakistan, Iran and the Afghan mujaheddin were all aware that the non-aligned conference in Ghana and. the UN General Assembly sessions will be held in September while the OIC summit will also be held i*«M>Sdnegal later this year. If they did not take the initiative in their hands prior to the start of these activities, perhaps the super powers or the UN would do so and then it would be too late to do anything about it. (VOAPS)
                    15
 *  A political prisoner recently released from the Pul-e-Charkhi prison on exchange basis has said that . his fellow prison-mates included a large number of Khalqis among them Dastgeer Panjsheri, Dr. Saleh Mohammad Zeray and a .number of generals. (VOAPS)
 * A rocket hit a bus in Kabul.^killing 20 persons and injuring 10 .othiers. Another six rockets fired by the mujaheddin fell in the vicinity of the Kabul regime Ministry of Defense and the Soviet Embassy. (BBCFS)
                    16
 A The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Kozyrev, who is on a visit to Pakistan for talks with Pakistani officials and the mujaheddin to seek a political solution to the Afghan crisis, addressed the mujaheddin delegation led by leader of HEIA, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and said "we have committed a mistake in the past by our aggression on Afghanistan. We would not
 commit another mistake of toppling the Kabul regime. That is the job of Afghan people". Addressing the participants Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi said he was happy that the Soviet Union had admitted its mistake and had proposed talks. He said that the Soviet Union can rectify its mistake by giving up its support to Najibullah and stopping all political and military assistance to him. Speaking on the occassion the Chief of Political . Bureau of Hekmatyar's HIA, Qutbuddin Hilal, said, "it is astonishing that on the one hand, Gorbachev has admitted that the Soviet aggression on Afghanistan was a mistake while on the other he provides military and economic assistance to Kabul regime which is the product of this very aggression". He said if the Soviet Union gave up its assistance to Kabul regime it would not remain in power even for a week. He said that the Afghan jehad consisted of two phases. The first phase was kicking out the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the other is toppling Kabul regime imposed oh the Afghan people through the Soviet aggression. The other participants were General Rahim Wardak, Eng. Mohammad Ayub, ' Ayatullah        Mohseni-    and
 •representative of HWIA, Akhiaqi. (MLM)
 *• The Soviet Government and the JIA Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, have reached the first agreement of its kind after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan providing that they will not interfere in each other's areas. The Soviet proposal of telephone contact between the Soviet border force and the mujaheddin was rejected but instead they proposed that if any emergency arose a white flag should be waved and an urgent meeting arranged on the border bridge. (MLM)
 * The Soviet President Gorbachev has in a message reguested the. Iranian President, Hashemi Rafsanjani, to help solve the Afghan conflict, reports Iranian News Agency. (MLM)
271
JULY-SEPTEMBER1991
 " Of the 25 Afghan POWs 11 were airlifted from Kabul to Peshawar for exchange against the Soviet POW Qurban Ali Tashripov. Of the remaining prisoners, six were reported misssing and they will be replaced by fresh list While the rest will be airlifted after 19 August. (MLM)
 * Fourteen Kayani militiamen and seven, from its rival group Rashid Dostom were, killed when they both clashed in.Kunduz 10 August due to their internal differences. Considerable number of militiamen were also injured from both sides. Several tanks were set ablaze and heavy financial losses were inflicted to the rival groups. The Kabul regime was deeply concerned about the conflicts between its two militia groups. (MLM)
vol. 4 no.4
prolonged civil war in Afghanistan and whose hands are stained with the blood of- hundreds of thousands of Afghans.
(JG)
* On the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the BBC Pashtu service a number of Afghan intellectuals were interviewed in connection with the repatriation problems, stability of the political situation, reconstruction and preservation of national traditions etc.
     Mohammad Siddiq Rohi, a resident of Kabul, said that the real factor behind the refugee exodus was the communist coup which forced the inhabitants to leave for fear of torture, oppression, threats and executions.
" Thirty persons were killed and 100 injured when the mujaheddin made a rocket, attack on capital Kabul 13 August. (NWT)
* A spokesman of (flA has termed as baseless an ANA report that Eng. Ahmad Shah, Deputy Chief of IIA had participated in talks with the Russian delegation in Islamabad. The spokesman categorically' stated that JlA was against any talks with the Russians at this stage, reports Al-Bunyan. (PT)
" In its editorial 16 August the daily Jang says it is a heartening development that various organizations of Afghan mujaheddin, Iran and Pakistan, the countries directly involved in the conflict, have in their tripartite talks in Islamabad agreed on a joint stand on Afghanistan. But the question remains that the Soviets want Najibullah to stay in power while the mujaheddin have totally rejected having talks with him. The mujaheddin's stand is based on principles that they cannot face their people after having talks with a person who is responsible for a
      Praishan Khattak, a literary figure in Pashtu, explaining the effects of the Afghan jehad on Pakistan said, "the awakening of brotherly ties and jehadic inspiration, abundance of arms etc. were the result of the Afghan war".
      Zia Mujaddedi, VOA correspondent, said that members of the communist Party were responsible for the massacre, total destruction and the displacement of over 5,000,000 inhabitants of Afghanistan. (BBCPS)
                 17
 “ The Afghan mujaheddin captured in their joint attack 13 August the Shurabak brigade of Kabul regime in the Shirin Tagab district of Faryab province killing 30 ' soldiers and injuring scores of others. They are now advancing to Sharab Beg garrison where fighting iS continuing. In another joint attack on Kandahar 14 August the mujaheddin killed 23 soldiers and destroyed a tank. Two mujaheddin Were also killed and 10 others were injured.
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        INMJtHAO                    VOL. 4 NO.4
 They destroyed the Baba Sahib Kotal post at Sarkatib Front- killing, two regime soldiers and wounding three others. (PT)
 - Saleem Akbar Afridi, President of Pakistan-Afghanistan Friendship Association, has said in Peshawar that continuation of the war in Afghanistan was a danger to the future of Muslims as well as to Pakhtoons. Congratulating Kabul regime President Najibbullah and his colleagues on the eve of Afghanistan's independence day he hoped that they would restore a peaceful atmosphere in war-torn Afghanistan in th£ light of the UN plan. He suggested to all Afghan leaders to accept the UN peace formula. (PT)
 " Addressing the foreign media representatives in Hong Kong,the Pakistan's Senate Chairman, Wasim Sajjad, said that Pakistan wanted such a solution of Afghanistan as was acceptable to the people of that country. (NWT)
 * An. American NGO, the International Policy Institute, held a conference with cooperation of the Kabul regime Embassy in Washington D.C. 16 August. Abdul Ghafoor Joshan, the Kabul regime Charge d' Affairs said in his statement that the Soviet assistance to Kabul must continue because the Soviet Union is well aware that, otherwise, hunger and famine will prevail in the country.
      Dr. Marks Loden, said the Soviet assistance to Afghanistan amounted to US $   400 million per month, 30% of
 which was relatged to Soviet militrary aisstance. He said a main derive for the Soviet assistance was to safeguard Soviet economic interests. (VOAPS)
                    18
 * Joint efforts are underway by the US and members of the UN to end the Afghan war. A project for this purpose has been launched by the Cincinnati
 University in Ohio. The organizer of the project Dr. Matin Royeen said, "Our only aim is to help bring peace to Afghanistan and assist in reconstruction." A world-wide struggle was underway, he said and he should be greatly honored if he could be of any assistance. He said his project had a ,25-year-old-history of affiliation with .'the College of Engineering, Kabul University. (VOAPS)
 * The Kabul regime has claimed that 16 rockets hit Kabul killing one person and wounding a number of others. (BBCFS)
 *   A Kabul regime supply convoy comprising 230 trucks and 20 tanks has left Herat for Kandahar. The caravan is transporting ammunition and a large number of militiamen to Kandahar which were in excess of requirements in Heirat. A JIA report says that a mine blast killed the KHAD director of the Eidgah Gate post in Kandahar alongwith other passengers of the vehicle they were using at the time.
      As a result of mujaheddin attack on security posts in a village in Farah Province, Asadullah, a mujaheddin commander, was killed and one of his men injured. (VOADS)
 * On the occasion of the 72nd anniversary of the Afghan independence Najib-ullah, the Kabul regime leader, in. a decree pardoned the remaining prison terms of a number of sick political prisoners. (RA)
 * A Radio Moscow broadcast said that the 72nd anniversary of Afghanistan's independence was celebrated at a time when the 13-year-long war was still raging. The broadcast added that a million persons were killed or crippled, tens of cities were damaged, hundreds of villages were annihilated and the economy has suffered a major
273
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         .....                VOL. 4 NO.4
wrnrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
 set-back. Over five million inhabitants ' migrated to foreign countries just to save their lives, the radio said. (RM)
 * Six Kabul regime posts were captured and 100 militiamen were killed when the mujaheddin launched operations in Maidan Shar, Wardak. A large -quantity of ammunition and food-stuff also fell to the mujaheddin. In Khurd-Kabul subdistrict 18 security posts were destroyed 17 August. The mujaheddin inflicted heavy financial and human losses to the regime forces when they attacked the Kabul Airbase and some other military basis around Kabul. They captured two officers and injured several others in Shakar Dara district 15 August. A militia post also fell to them. Several officers and 5 soldiers were killed and two tanks and four military vehicles were destroyed in Sarobi district. Two electricity towers were also destroyed in the operations. In an offensive over militia positions in Gulran district, Herat, three militiamen were killed and 13 injured 13 Augusts Two hundred militiamen along with their families, five vehicles, two 75 mm cannons, 8 P.K. machine-guns, 220 klashenkovs, five rocket launchers, a ZU anti-aircraft machine-gun and a huge quantity of weapons, joined the mujaheddin. Eight mujaheddin were also injured. Twenty-one regime troops, including officers, were captured and at least 10 troops, were killed when fighting erupted in Mohammad Aga, Logar Province. Four mujaheddin were also killed. The mujaheddin shot down a regime jet plane while it was .bombing their positions in Jurm district in Badakhshan 15 August and captured the pilot who had parachuted. (PT)
                                                               ' * ' ‘ [ * In a statement in Peshawar 17'
 August, the Afghan mujaheddin. Bar Association rejected the UN formula for Afghanistan saying it was not acceptable in its present form. It said the Najib regime had been included as a lawful party by the UN while in fact it
 was an unlawful remnant of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan and thus it did not carry any legality to take part in the formation of the future political system in Afghanistan. The statement said the UN has called for the restoration Of the Islamic identity and non-aligned status of Afghanistan, whereas, in the presence of the "Afghan Communists" this statement carried no weight. The statement has also taken exception to Iran's attempt to secure undue political rights for a minority religious Sect of .Afghanistan by means of pressure and persuation and described it as "unjustified meddling in the internal affairs of Afghanistan by Iran". It clarified that "there were only two valid -parties to the Afghan conflict namely the Soviets and the Afghan mujaheddin and no third party had any legal right to settle the Afghan issue". (NTN)
                 19
 ' The Kabul regime airforce indiscriminately bombed Badakhshan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces during the past two days killing 100 civilians and injuring about 300, reports ANA. In Faryab the mujaheddin attacked the regime's military centers in Shirin Tagab and inflicted heavy losses on the regime forces and captured a regime commander, Ghulam Ali, at the Juma Bazar. Two howitzer cannons, one PK machine-gun, two military trucks loaded with arms and ammunition and 150 klashenkovs were also captured by the mujaheddin. They killed 75 army soldiers and militiamen in the operations. Two mujaheddin were also killed and 8 others injured. (NTN)
 - A young Swiss Red Cross worker, captured 12 days ago north of Kabul, has been freed by the mujaheddin, a Red Cross spokesman said in Kabul 18 August. (NTN)
 * According to a report from Ahmad
274
01689116
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Shah Masqod, the Kabul regime forces have severely bombed Jurm, Baharak, Rustaq, Zebak, Khwajaghar, Eshkashem, Keshm, Taluqan and parts of Faizabad in Badakhshan and Takhar provinces. The report adds that 100 persons have been killed and some 300 injured. The report adds that these raids were in retaliation of the Kabul regime defeats in ground battles. (BBCFS)
                   20
 * Welcoming the changes in Soviet leadership,; the Chief of HIA Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, has said in an interview that the world would witness a new phase of events fpllowing ouster of Gorbachev from power. He said the Soviet Union and the US had joined hands to create hurdles in the setting-up of an Islamic government in Afghanistan but now both the forces would not be in a position to execute their joint conspiracies against the Afghan mujaheddin. The US,he said, would now revise its* policies towards Afghan resistance whom it had deserted in a bid to please the deposed Soviet leader. (NTN)
 * In an interview with a visiting Pakistani journalist, .Mukhtar Hussain, the Soviet coup leader, Gannady Yana'yev, has condemned Soviet invasion of Afghanistan saying that it was a great mistake and a crime against humanity. He said "we want to see Afghanistan as an independent, non-aligned and sovereign country." (JG)
 * An exhibition of the Afghan war was opened near the Kremlin in Moscow. The 13,833 pictures placed on display in the hall depict scenes of the difficult time the Soviet troops had in Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
 *  An NLFA source, quoting commander Didar, reports that the south-eastern council of Kabul attacked security
  P®sts at Khurd ■ Kabul, Kabul Airport, the No.4 and No. 15 Armored Battalions and occupied a number of posts. (VOAPS)
                  21
  * In his address to political and civilian     personalities,     foreign
  diplomats and journalists in Kabul on the eve of independence day of Afghanistan,! the Kabul regime President Najibullah, proposed that a mediatory team comprising neutral Afghan spiritual     leaders     and      other
  personalities inside and outside the country should be set up to conciliate between the regime and the opponents, BBC correspondent Chris Power- reports from Kabul. He said this team will study the views and opinions of the opponents and would bring about consensus and ''conciliation between them. He added that they would also invite mujaheddin field commanders to take part in the meeting. (NTN)
                 t
   * All the mujaheddin groups who have
   been included in the.          28-member
   commission set up by the AIG have submitted their recommendations to the commission and a 10-member committee has now been constituted to examine the recommendations and prepare a unanimous formula for setting up an interim government in Kabul, says a source
I close to the commission. (NTN)
   * In his reaction to the change of leadership in the Soviet Union,the AIG Minister of Reconstruction, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said the removal of Gorbachev was a Soviet internal problem. However, he appealed to the new leaders not to follow the previous policies and stop interfering in Afghanistan. He said, "we want them to Open a new chapter in the history of relations between the two countries by removing the puppet-regime in Kabul". Giilbuddin Hekmatyar said that Gorbachev pursued, the policy of bowing to the west. He said it would be advisable for Moscow to come closer
275
11,111
VOL. 4 NO.4
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
 to the Third World countries instead, particularly the Muslim states. The AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said the takeover by radical communists in Moscow could create difficulties for the mujaheddin but they were hopeful to achieve their goal. He hoped the recently initiated dialogue between the mujaheddin and the Soviet Union would be continued for seeking a peaceful solution to * the Afghan problem. AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab RasOol Sayyaf welcomed the change but feared that the radical communists would once again push the     Soviet  society       to the
 communist era. Mawlawi Mohammad Yourius Khales, Amir .of HIA, said the ouster of Gorbachev was a good omen as „ conspiracies hatched by Moscow abd Washington against Afghanistan could not be implemented now. (PT)
 * a report says that the mujaheddin
 have occupied about half of Greshk district,   Helmand, and      are rapidly
 advancing   towards the Greshk town'
 itself. In a two-day operation 15-16 August, 15 mujaheddin were killed and 30 injured. In the mujaheddin rocket attack on Lashkargah a helicopter was destroyed. In retalliation the Kabul regime forces bombed the area heavily killing a large number        of  locals.
 Thirty-five militiamen defected to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
 *  A US Congressman has said that Pakistan was bearing the burden of three million Afghan refugees. If the mujaheddin did not succeed in making headway towards finding a peaceful solution to the Afghan crisis, the US Congress would stop the US assistance to the Afghan resistance. (VOADS)
                    22
     HIA (Hekmatyar) has laid down certain conditions for participation in tripartite talks on Afghanistan in Tehran 27 August. The conditions included the jehad organizations should
 discuss the achievements of tripartite talks held in Islamabad recently and reach a unanimous consensus on a plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem before participation. All the effective jehad organizations, induing the Coalition Council,should be* invited to the Tehran conference and the extraordinary privileges being given to some of the parties should be stopped forthwith. The major political organizations should agree upon the delegation participating in the conference and the head of the delegation should be named after mutual understanding of the major mujaheddin parties. It also suggested that the mujaheddin representing the Muslim Afghan nation should adopt a unanimous stand on the problem while the neighbouring and friendly countries should support it for working out a viable political solution of the problem according to the aspirations of the Afghan people. (PT)
 > In a press statement 21 August the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that the change in the Soviet leadership would not change the determination of the mujaheddin to fight for the freedom of their country. He said the mujaheddin would continue to fight the imposed Marxist regime in Kabul no matter who assumed power at Kremlin. He said that the ouster of Gorbachev had again created a rift between the two super powers. Criticizing the US, he said "it supported the mujaheddin in the past only to avenge the defeat it suffered at the hands of communists in Vietnam. (MLM)
  ** In a surprise attack 20 August, the Hezb-e-Islami (Hekmatyar) recaptured its bases in Kunar province after their forcible occupation for four months by the "Salafis" headed by Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rehman. The ANA quoting the HIA said Mawlawi jamil-ur-Rahman had turned down all the offers of a
276
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 negotiated and peaceful resolution of differences that had cropped up due to the Jamaat-ud-Dawah attack and occupation of HIA bases. (MLM)
 " As many as 13 missiles fired by the Afghan mujaheddin rocked the Kabul city 19 August causing destruction and killing two persons. (MLM)
 *  The HWIA reports that the AAF heavily straffed the Ghorband valley 14 August killing or wounding over 20 civilians. The following day they bombed the HWI A base in Doab, Bamian Province in which 12 persons were killed and another 10 injured.
      A report from Herat says that a mine,planted by the mujaheddin, destroyed a Kabul regime army vehicle killing or wounding all its passengers.
 (VOADS)
                   23
 *  As many as 23 persons, three from HIA (Hekmatyar) and the rest from Jamaat-ud-Dawat of Mawlana Jamil-ur-Rahman,were killed and 100 others were wounded in armed clashes that erupted almost a week ago when Go jar tribe, at
 1 the behest of Jamaat-ud-Dawat, sponsored lavishly by the Governments of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, raided Shinwari tribe of Kunar and Shegal, the staunch supporters of HIA (Hekmatyar), in and around Shegal town and other parts of Kunar province. HIA (Hekmatyar) is said to have succeeded in capturing Nawa Pass, Pul-e-Nawabad, Tangu and Sarkano areas of the province. (MLM) *
  * The Coalition Council, the Peshawar-based Shia resistance in Afghanistan which is a combination of four groups, has demanded that invitations should be extended to all the jehad parties including the Council for attending the second round of the tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Tehran 27
 August. It said that a poxitical solution of the problem could be possible only through a joint dialogue representing all the jehad organizations. (MLM)
 - The mujaheddin fired rockets at
 Kabul Airport 22 August and two of the
 rockets fell after passengers on a New
 Delhi-bound flight had boarded their plane. (PT)
 -  The mujaheddin have shot down a regime jet fighter in Sayed Karam district# Paktia. Meanwhile, 200 civilians are reported to have been killed in Kabul regime air raids in Bamian, Badakhshan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces. (MLM)
 ** The Afghan mujaheddin in their attacks 16-18’ August destroyed eight Kabul regime security posts in Ghor province killing .22 regime troops. Four mujaheddin were also killed in the operations.. Meanwhile, five regime troops were killed and ’ six others surrendered when their army camp at Hazrat-e-Sultan was attacked by the mujaheddin 17 August. (NWT)
 *  A former Afghan Vice Presidentj Sultan Ali Keshtmand, in an interview 21 August accused the Kabul regime of launching unjustified bombing raids on peaceful mujaheddin-held areas including a city famous for its ancient Buddhist statues. (NTN)
 *  The former Afghan Monarch has stated that the Soviets witnessed the results of their toils, their determination and respect to the legitimacy of their regime. The government and the people of the Soviet Union should now be in a better position to realize how difficult it must have been for the Afghan people during the last 13 years.
 ' (VOAPSj
                  24
 *   During informal talks with The Nation the Afghan Consul, Abdul Qayuum, has stressed upon all Afghan resistance
277
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 groups to accept coalition and play their due role in efforts aimed at political settlement of the Afghan problem. (NTN)
 * In his greeting message to Moscow 22 April on the safe return to power of President Gorbachev, Kabul regime President Najibullah hoped that the Soviet Union would assist in the political settlement of Afghanistan at the criticial juncture of history.
 (MLM)
 * The Soviet military authorities have come to the conclusion, after 10 years experience in Afghanistan, to bring about vast changes in the Soviet army and set up a small effective, combatant modern army. (VOAPS)
 * Reports from Afghanistan state that fierce fighting between Kabul regime forces and the mujaheddin is continuing in various parts of the country. The mujaheddin have attacked Kabul regime forces in Herat, Kandahar and Jauzjan killing 130 army personnel, capturing 43 troops, 10 army vehicles and large quantities of ammunition. They have also occupied five military strongholds in various parts of the country. (RP)
                   25
 ** The Afghan mujaheddin have so far killed 130 Kabul regime troops in Kandahar and Jauzjan provinces. They also captured five military posts and seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition and ten military vehicles. (NTN)
 - At least 50 troops were killed and injured and six tanks and armored vehicles were destroyed by the mujaheddin in their counter-attack against the Kabul r'egime attempt to re-open the Kabul-Ghazni Highway 1°
 August. Ten mujaheddin were killed in the operation-. The regime planes conducted indiscriminate bombing on the rural localities in Wardak where 80 civilians, including women and children, were killed. (PT)
 * In a direct message to Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation, the Kabul regime President Najibullah has requested him "not to forget personally the Kabul regime". The apologetic message was also broadcast by Kabul Radio 23 August. (NTN)
 " The AIG' Premier, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has called for immediate cessation of hostilities in Kunar valley where the mujaheddin of HIA (Hekmatyar) and regional Ahl-e-Hadith‘ group of' Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman are at war. Prof. Sayyaf has urged both the groups to accept impartial mediation. (NTN)
 " Four militia regiments of Kabul regime surrendered when they were jointly attacked by the mujaheddin in the Shahrud area, Herat 13 August, reports ANA. (PT)
 - Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HIA, has in a statement said that whatever was being done in Afghanistan it was being done by KGB and hardliner communists. "If Gorbachev himself is not ready to form a coalition with the communists of the recent coup, and would certainly take them to the court, how would the Afghan people be ready for coalition government with the communist Najib", he said. (PT)
     An official spokesman of IIA has denied a comment circulated by ANA and published in a section of the press that AIG Prime Minister, Abd R5b Rasool Sayyaf, had welcomed the change in the . Soviet Union.’"The comment is entirely false and unfounded and has no truth whatsoever", the spokesman said. (PT)
278
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, has in a message commended the role of Boris Yaltsin, the President of the Russian Federation, for the restoration of democracy. The message, '
 released for publication says, "please allow me to congratulate you on your bold and daring stand vis-a-vis the Soviet people's rights for democracy and self-determination. We sincerely hope that you Will exert your best efforts for bringing peace to Afghanistan. We also hope that through your efforts the Soviet Union will cease interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan". (VOAPS)
 *  Eleven rockets hit Kabul 25 August. Ten of these fell on agricultural lands and one on residential area injuring one person. (RA)
                   26
 *  Seven rockets fired by the Afghan mujaheddin fell in Kabul city 24 August killing one person and injuring% a number of others. The Kabul regime Central Television Network reported that the rockets caused large scale destruction. (MLM)
 *  The Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has commended the role of the five Afghan students, who did .not bow to American pressure to condemn HIA's policy on the Gulf War just to get their scholarship program okayed in America. In an informal chat with ANA he said that the party would make arrangements for these students to complete their education elsewhere. (PT) **
 ** The second round of the tripartite conference on Afghanistan will be held in Tehran 27-29 August, a Foreign Office spokesman said at a news briefing in Islamabad 25 August. The Pakistan delegation ■ led by Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akrara Zaki,
 will also, for the first time, include^ officials of ISI, the spokesman said. "We will try to carry forward the foundation laid in the first round held in Islamabad and refine and define further the five-point plan", he said. Certain clarifications of the plan had been received in Islamabad concerning the position of the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime, the spokesman said. Thirty representatives of Afghan parties will go to Iran and representatives of the Iran-based HWIA will also attend the talks. (PT)
 *  Farid Mazdak, deputy chief of the Watan party welcomed, the latest changes in Moscow, particularly, Gorbachev's resignation from the Communist Party. He ruled out the possibility of a coup, similar to that staged in Moscow, in Kabul. He said, however, that the communists should resign before a natural political wave forces them to do so. (BBCFS)
 *  Transportation efforts to deliver the 50,000 tons of Indian relief wheat to Kabul are continuing. The wheat has been lying in Indian ports since some time but nobody, knows how to transport them to Kabul. Meanwhile*, the Kabul regime is trying to purchase another 150 thousand tons of wheat in free world markets. (BBCPS)
 *  Dr. Rawan Farhadi, a former Afghan diplomat, has said regarding the effects of the latest political changes in the USSR on Afghanistan, that the Kabul regime can at least step down from power to compensate for the crimes they committed against the Afghan people. Discarding the militia, the police force, the armed forces and the KHAD, dismissing all ranking military officers and civil servants and finally handing over power to an interim government comprising patriotic non-communist personalities, would be the best way to handle the case.
279
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
     If the Kabul communists are willing to excuse themselves of the Saur Co.up responsibility,- they can arrange for a peaceful general elections with the cooperation of a united mujaheddin front.
 *   Dr. Siddiq Noorzoy, Prof. in California's Berkley University, said that the mujaheddin have been provided with a very valuabel opportunity because the Kabul regime has lost its supporters. Boris Yaltsin, who had invited the mujaheddin to Moscow last year for talks regarding the exchange of POWs and for taking the veil off the crimes committed by the Russian troops in Afghanistan, is gaining widespread popularity. The mujaheddin should renew the invitation and hold talks with him. They should establish amicable ties with the Soviet Union not only for the present but also in the future. He added that Yaltsin was capable to meet most of the mujaheddin demands, provided they did not miss the opportunity. (VOADS)
 *   Najibullah, the Kabul regime President, said on the 72nd anniversary of Afghanistan's independence the only probable way to ensure the cessation of hostilities and the provision of peace in the country was by means of a consensus between all Afghan political forces regarding a mechanism for the maintenance of peace through a peaceful’ solution of the Afghan problem. (RA)
                   27
 •* Three’ major political parties of Afghan mujaheddin, HIA (Hekmatyar), IIA (Sayyaf) and HIA (Khales) are boycotting the second round of tripartite talks in Tehran 27 August. ANA, quoting Qutbuddin Hilal, Chairman of the Political Affairs Department of HIA, said that since no response to the party's conditions was received.
 the party opted to boycott the talks.
      The HIA also stressed the mujaheddin should agree on a plan for the political resolution of the Afghan problem which should be endorsed in the tripartite talks by the Governments of Pakistan and Iran whereafter the other friendly countries will be asked to support the same.
      IIA's version is that the Iranians have the     least concern for       the
 liberation  of Afghanistan or       the
 establishment of an Islamic government there and they have a direct desire to break up and divide Afghanistan. HIA (Khales) being pessimistic about it is opposing the talks from the very beginning. (MLM)
 “ Coinciding with the forthcoming tripartite   talks on Afghanistan     in
 Tehran, the  AIG President Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi has received an invitation from the Russian President Boris Yeltsin for talks to bring the Afghan crisis to an honorable and principled end, reliable diplomatic sources said in Islamabad.) They further confirmed^ that Soviet leadership had taken t the irreversible decision to terminate all support to the illegal and unpopular Najibullah regime. (MLM)
 * Reports from Afghanistan say that the Najibullah regime is stricken with panic because of the situation in the Soviet Union. Diplomats and independent observers say the ruling party members were shaken with fear that Yeltsin might withdraw the Soviet support, (MLM)
 - Mohammad Asef Mohseni, leader of HIA, in a letter addressed to Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation,, urged him to prevail on Gorbachev to abandon Soviet support to Najib's regime in Afghanistan so that a solution to the Afghan issue could be
 july-september. 1991 MflN JIHJ18
 found. The time has proved, he said,; that the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan was a blunder, which not only resulted in untold miseries to the Afghans, but also landed Soviet Union ini a difficult situation. The Communist doctrine, he “added, had outlived its utility and the Soviet people should consider to adopt the sacred religion and philosophy of Islam as a guarantor of a better spiritual and material life, here and hereafter. (MLM)
 " Two workers of Islamic Jamiat-e-Talaba, have been, killed while fighting against Kabul regime forces on Jalalabad/ front. The Chiefs of the Rawalpindi and Islamabad branchs of the Jamiat said that sacrifices of those killed in Afghan jehad would not go in vain and the blood of Jamiat workers will also contribute in bringing an Islamic revolution in Afghanistan. (JG)
 " The temporary removal of Gorbachev and the takeover by the hardliners in the Soviet Union was celebrated by the Marxist group of Kabul regime, who were very much embrassed by the re-emergence of Gorbachev as the President and growing popularity of Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian ‘Federation, reliable sources said. (NTN)
     In armed clashes between two mujaheddin groups in Kunar province,hia (Hekmatyar) group has succeeded in controlling the road between Asadabad and Nawa Pass resulting in confinement to the center, of Kunar province of the mujaheddin of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rehman's Jamaat-ul-Dawa, known as Salafis, who are facing shortage of arms and food supplies. Hundreds of mujaheddin affiliated with the Jamaat and enjoying maximum support of the Saudi Crown have also been killed; or captured and their leader is learnt to have escaped to Bajour Agency 26 August. Most of the injured have been admitted to local first aid centers established by
VOL. 4 NO.4
 various Arab organizations in Kunar province. (NTN)
 * Dr. Mohammad Yousuf, a former Afghan Premier, assessing the effects of the latest Soviet changes on Afghanistan said, the defeat of the Red Army and their eventual withdrawal from Afghanistan was in fact the beginning and the end of the Soviet Empire. The Kabul regime, he said, was totally left in isolation and complete moral and material loss. "In my opinion" he said, "a better ., opportunity than this will never come our way which will be so conducive for a peaceful solution of the Afghan issue. We once lost a good opportunity during the historic Geneva accords. The UN Secretary General has submitted a comprehensive plan for a political solution of the Afghan problem which has been * accepted by nearly all the parties concerned. "It is our duty to seek the way to the formation of an interim government. We should not expect that the super powers or the UN take our hand and lead us to a solution. This will never happen". He concluded, "I hope this great chance is not allowed to slip through our fingers due to a lust for power and selfishness". (VOADS)
 * A source in the Supervisory Council of the JIA has said the AAF heavily bombed Taluqan city. Najibullah, the puppet Kabul regime President told the BBC correspondent that it was his objective to destroy ammunition dumps in the nprth belonging to the Supervisory Council. The source added that Taluqan had a flat terrain not suitable for preserving ammunition. The pretext for destroying depots in Taluqan was just an attempt to hide the regime's anti-human nature.
      A source close to Ahmad Shah Masood said that their mujaheddin groups, unlike the Kabul regime, cared for the people to the extent that they
281
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 refrained from performing normal military operations such as the closing of the Salang pass because they knew how badly it would effect the two million people living in Kabul. (VOADS)
                  28
 » Talking 'to newsmen in Islamabad 27 August before leaving for Tehran for the second round of tripartite talks on Afghanistan, Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, said that talks in Tehran would be an.' important headway towards the political settlement of the Afghan problem. He said the recent developments in the Soviet Union were in favor of a political settlement and all the relevant quarters had assured Pakistan of their all out support to achieve the objective. A high level envoy of King Fahd had also met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif 26 August and assured full Support of his government to resolve the Afghan -issue, he said. He added a solid foundation had been laid in the first round of talks, and in the second round practical measures will be taken to arrive at the final agreement. The main concern, he said, would be a government for an interim period in Afghanistan, acceptable to the Afghan mujaheddin. (MLM)
     In the wake of the political upheaval in the Soviet Union the Kabul regime is worried about the expected interruption of food supplies. The regime's party Deputy Chairman, Farid Ahmad Mazdak, said the Kabul regime was anxious chat Soviet supplies/ especially of foodstuff, should continue. (NTN)
    The Kabul regime has deleted the term "revolution" from school and university textbooks in the first major move to free its youth from the; deep-rooted effects of the Soviet'
 occupation. Entire courses in "sociology" adopted after the Soviet invasion in 1979 have been dropped from the syllabi arid new courses.in religion and languages introduced. The Soviet's most prestigious academic center in Kabul, the Institute of Social Sciences, has also been disbanded. (NTN)
 “ At a meeting between Prince Turki Al Faisal and the leaders of. the Afghan jehad, their representatives and the advisory committee in Islamabad, it was said that Saudi Arabia has assured continued support to Afghan mujaheddin and refugees. (NTN)
    Thousands of Afghan mujaheddin, led by Afghan commanders, Haji Malay Khan, Malik Shah Khan, Mawlawi Peer Mohammad Toran and Amanullah Masood, tooik out a procession against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Jalaluddin Haqqani and Commander Malik Shah and demanded their share of booty in victory of Khost. (JG)
 *  AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said in a statement in Peshawar 27 August it was the stiff resistance of the Afghan mujaheddin against the communist forces which resulted in the destruction* of communism first in Afghanistan arid then in the Soviet Union and other parts of the world. He said that honor and dignity of the Muslim world was linked with the Afghan jehad. Therefore, the Muslims should extend their full support to jehad in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin destroyed six strategic posts of the Kabul regime near Maidan Shar, Wardak, 27 August killing a number of regime soldiers and capturing a big quantity of arms and ammunition. Meanwhile, the Kabul airforce continued its indiscriminate bombordment of the civil population in Wrekhmin Tangi area around the Sarobi district of Kabul' causing heavy
282
 casualties and destruction. (NTN)
 ** The Kabul regime has released eight more mujaheddin POWs in swap for a Soviet POW, Qurban Ali, released by mujaheddin earlier this month. This has brought to 19 the total number of mujaheddin POWs released by the Kabbul regime recently. Moscow says a total of 330 Soviet soldiers were listed as missing. (PT)
 " The Nation says in its editorial 28 August that the Kabul regime President Najibullah may not still be as much of a sitting duck for his adversaries as the longtime Communist Party bosses in the Soviet republics have turned out to be. Despite Najibullah's dubious antecedence as a Soviet protege, the choice for the people of Afghanistan bear little resemblance to the current Soviet scenario. While the Kabul regime has already shed its socialist orientation and is prone to sharing power in a broad-based national coalition, the mujaheddin, on the other hand, do not appear to be in a position to. offer a viable alternative. Hopefully, the second round pf trilateral talks would produce more positive results and the Pakistani and Iranian negotiators would prevail upon the mujaheddin to tailor their policies according . to realities. Pakistan,     given     its     peculiar
 geopolitical setting, has to make haste to ensure peace and stability along its western frontier. (NTN) *
 * A 20-man delegation headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, left for Tehran to attend the , tripartite conference on Afghanistan. Seven mujaheddin parties based in Peshawar are represented in the conference by 2-4 delegates. The Pakistan government authorities also accompanied the delegation for the same purpose. The HIA (Hekmatyar), IIA and HIA (Khales) as well as the Islamic
 Coalition Council have boycoted the talks. (VOADS)
 * Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, a former Deputy Premier, said in relation to the Tehran tripartite conference that the conference was against the provisions of UN plan. He said, "similar to ■ the Islamabad conference, it will be completely ineffective". Hamed, said no political party in Afghanistan was lawfully instituted, but their inidivdul lawfulness would depend on how much these parties complied with the aims of the jehad and national aspirations.
     Habibullah Karzai, another former Afghan diplomat said, despite being late, "the UN plan for Afghanistan contains some positive points which can be considered as a basis for the political solution of the Afghanistan problem." ( ViDADS )
                                              29
 * Addressing the inaugural session of the tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Tehran 28 August Akram Zaki,. Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, said that Pakistan's commitment to a political settlement "should n<?t be misunderstood". We believe that a political settlement be such that it is . consistent with objectives of the jehad, for the restoration of Islamic identity and sovereign, independent and non-aligned character of Afghanistan. It should enable the Afghan refugees to return to their homeland in honor and! safety. Peace has not returned to Afghanistan because the regime in Kabul, which is rejected by the Afghan mujaheddin, continues to survive owing to the massive assistance and support from the Soviet Union. The forces responsible for intervention in Afghanistan have suffered and Afghan jehad has a contribution towards this historic achievement. He said
JULY.-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
283
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
accordingly there existed a great opportunity for the Afghan mujaheddin to take advantage of the transformed situation without delay and press for a just and honorable settlement.
      In his inaugural remarks Ali Akbar Velayati, Foreign Minister of Iran said "the total freedom of Afghanistan is in sight". He said, "the Afghan Islamic movement had not only brought pride for the people of Afghanistan in the world community, but also had given rise to certain developments in the region and drastic changes on international and regional levels".-
      The     Pakistan-based      Afghan
mujaheddin were represented in the conference by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Mawlawi M. Nabi Mohammadi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad and others.
   The talks are also being attended by representatives of the Wahdat Party of Iran-based Afghan refugees. (PT)
*  In a telephonic interview with BBC
28    August    Akram   Zaki, Pakistan's
Secretary General Foreign Affairs said that better possibilities of the resolution of the Afghan issjie had emerged after the recent developments in the Soviet Union. He said the hands of     those who support       President
Najibullah have now been weakened. When asked as to how Tehran talks would succeed when three mujaheddin groups
were    not   attending them,   Mr. Zaki
warned that those who did .not work for a resolution would politically become unnecessary. When asked if these groups would get out of the whole process,Mr. Zaki   said   Pakistan  hoped that these
groups would realize that their future was linked with the process of talks. (NTN) *
*  In a telegram,.addressed to Boris
 Yeltsin, President or Russian Federation, the AIG former Education Minister, Dr. Farooq Azam, has urged to stop military aid to Afghanistan and leave the Afghans alone to determine their     future without outside
 interference. He reminded Boris Yeltsin that Afghanistan was still suffering at the hands of those who staged a coup against the will of the Soviets) 19 August in a bid to put the Russian sodiety back on a repressive role. He said, it were these hardliners and their innovator, Leonid Breznev, who sent the Red Army to Afghanistan 13 years ago, killed more than ten percent of the total population, forced one-third to take, refugee in Pakistan and Iran, orphaned 2.5 million kids, left thousands of women widow and 2.8 million people crippled. They changed the friendly Afghanistan to a hostile neighbour, he added. (NTN)
 * Any table talks wherein all the resistance groups are not invited would be a futile attempt, said a statement issued by Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, a four-party alliance of Shia resistance groups previously based in Tehran and recently shifted to Peshawar. . The tripartite talks in Tehran, the. statement said, are an empty show w^hich toill turn out to be irelevant. (MLM)
 * In an interview with the BBC in Kabul, Prof. Asghar, leader of the National Salvation Front of Afghanistan said, "one of the negative effects on Afghanistan of the political upheaval in the Soviet Union is the scarcity of food supplies in Kabul which has become a matter of great concern. The Soviet Union, as the main factor behind the present disaster in Afghanistan, is duty-bound to prevent famine here". He added, the West should also assist the Soviet Union to supply us with food otherwise tens of thousands of the oppressed and suffering Afghans would
284
july-september,1991          HIIiIUIIIdlllllU           vol.  4 no.4
__  . !__1. . _ ' . .     . .     •. . ,_.         . i
be starved or frozen to death during , Afghanistan in Islamabad. (PT) the coming winter. (BBCFS)               I
                                                              * The Afghan National Council in a
 *  With the opening of the tripartite conference in Tehran* the daily Keyhan International published in English in Tehran* in its editorial demanded the assassination of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of ' the HIA. The editorial said his Hezb-e-Islami party had done more damage to the mujaheddin than did the Soviet Union- or the Kabul regime. According to the editorial a valorous Afghan should soon put an end to his life. (BBCFS)
 *  Fresh reports indicate that the Kandahar and Shindand airports have recently been the targets - of the mujaheddin rockets. Four aircraft were burned at Shindand while two ammunition depots were destroyed at the Kandahar Airport because of these attacks. A group of militia surrendered themselves to the mujaheddin at Gulran district, Herat. (VOADS)
                                              30
                     i
 *  Briefing diplomats and mediamen on the outcome of the tripartite conference, on Afghanistan Akram Zaki* Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs* said in Tehran 29 August "We have made a considerable progress". He said tha-t Iran and Pakistan, alongwith Afghan mujaheddin had decided to project this issue internationally* to seek a political-settlement through the UN, the OIC and in cooperation and support of the friendly countries. Dr. All Akbar Vellayati, Iranian Foreign Minister, said in the_ briefing that majority of the participating Afghan mujaheddin considered the Tehran conference to be "an immense success". He said it had been agreed that a committee be set .up to monitor achievements so far. He said that the conference participants had decided to hold the third tripartite conference on
 statement issued by the Al-Bunyan says* "experience has shown that the Afghan issue cannot be resolved through war because both the sides have failed to bring the     other side      under  Its
 domination.  The Kabul      regime  has
 realized this fact and for this purpose it has proposed talks and free and fair elections in the country under the auspices of the UN. The mujaheddin* on the other hand, are optimistic about their victory". (MDM)
 *  Dr. Abdul Hakeem Tabibi, a former Afghan diplomat/ commenting on the effects of the recent abortive Soviet coup on the Afghan problem* said these events were the greatest in the present era. He said, "it is just as well that the coup failed. It was the KGB which was behind all the massacre and tragedies in Afghanistan during the past 13 years. Had the coup succeeded*: the solution of the Afghan issue would have been further delayed". He said
 .that politics was the art of opportunity and for this reason the commanders* the mujaheddin leaders and the intellectuals should all learn from the coup and to review their war tactics. (VOADS)
 *  Ashraf Ghani* a university Professor in the US* said regarding the recent changes in the Soviet Union and their
' impact on Afghanistan that there was no threat to the Islamic character of Afghanistan at this stage because atheism was on the way out from the neighborhood* but what really mattered was the serious threat that posed the territorial integrity of Afghanistan. Apart from the fact that the present neighbours were interfering in our internal affairs* new neighbours will emerge in the region which may further complicate the issue. At: present the UN proposals are promising and they should be heeded. (VOADS)
 * The joint declaration issued 30 August at. the end of the second round of the tripartite conference on Afghanistan^ in Tehran,, has once again emphasized the need for restoration of Islamic identity and the independent, sovereign and non-aligned character of Afghanistan. The meeting reiterated that any solution for the Afghanistan problem should lead to the replacement of the present illegal regime in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic Government, acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. The meeting recommended that a delegation composed of Afghan mujaheddin parties based in Iran and Pakistan meet the UN Secretary General in order to inform him of their views and hold further talks on the UN plan. The meeting also decided to send such a delegation to the forthcoming UN General Assembly session in New York and the OIC submit in Dakar. An Ad Hoc Committee of the second round of the tripartite conference v/as appointed to make all necessary preparations for the third round of the tripartite meeting in Islamabad. The meeting expressed the hope that current developments in the, Soviet Union would contribute to 'the speedy settlement of the Afghan problem. The Afghan mujaheddin parties are ready to initiate a substantive dialogue with Moscow. The meeting condemned the current bombardment by the Kabul regime of residential areas in which innopen^ civilians nre killed. (PT)
 t After       the  seocnd tripartite
 conference    on   Afghanistan which,
 concluded in Tehran 30 August, ' Dr. All Akpar Velayati < Iranian Foreign Minister, said, '’the threads had been picked UR      and  it ~is hoped the
 mujaheddin y/ould forge unity in their ranks and file for attaining positive
 gains"; Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, said the Sincere joint effprts underway presently will definitely Sear fruit soon. He hoped that the Afghan mujaheddin leaders would fully realize their responsibility and take a fuller, advantage of the opportunity "thrown open by the events" taking shape in the Soviet Union. (PT)•
 *  Philipp Labreveux, head of UNHCR office in Quetta, has said that more than 12,000, Afghan refugee families have returned their ration cards to the UNHCR officials since the launching of the UN repatriation program in July
 1990. (PT)
 *  Talking to newsmen in Quetta 29 August^ head of UNHCR sub office, ha,S said that so far 80,000 Afghan refugees have returned to Afghanistan. He also, said that UNHCR would reduce its assistance to refugees in October
 1991. (MLM)
 *  In an article published in the latest issue of The Economist Kabul regime President Najibullah has been compared. with the former Ethopian leader Mengistu Haile Maridum who remained in power for 17 years with the help of 500,000 strong army, but when the decline,came he was ousted in a few months. The article says the Kabul regime is watching the development .in the Soviet Union with grave concern. The Russian President Yeltsin says he does not want to send more grain either to Afghanistan or to Cuba. If grain and fuel are not available it will be hard for the Najibullah regime to survive through the next winter season. (MLM)
 *  Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman, Chief of Jamaat-ud-Dawat, popularly known as "Salafie" was shot dead 29 August by one of his Arab guests, Abdullah Romi of Egypt, at Bajour Agency where he had taken refugee after the fall of. Kunar
286
         JULY - SEPTEMBER •> 1991                                     IlffillllH   JINIIO                                             VOL.    4       N0.4
 proyince to HIA (Hekmatyar) a few days back. His bodyguards opened fire on the assailant and killed him. One of the guards, Abdul Qayyum, also sustained injuries during the shooting. (MLM)
 * Daily 'Jang says in its editorial 31 August that certain forces supporting Afghan mujaheddin in their historic struggle against the Soiviet occupation of their country had the only objective to see the Soviet forces withdraw from Afghanistan but leave the formation of a government to the Afghans themselves. Under the circumstances it is for the Muslim countries to help continue this struggle till the achievement of the real objectives of the Afghan jehad, Saudi Arabia, the editorial says, has already set an example through an assurance by the Crown Prince Turki Al-Faisal that Afghan mujaheddin and refugees will continue to receive their assistance. (JG)
 I              I •
 * Feda Mohammad Khan, leader of the Muslim League in the NWFP and former governor of the province, said regarding the Afghan issue that everyone knew that thousands^ of Afghan refugees in Pakistan possessed arms which were not always used inside Afghanistan but also occasionally in Pakistan. "We respected the Afghan refugees because we had linguistic and religious ties with them. As far as I know US arms supplies have already been cut to them- but the mujaheddin are still continuing their aimed struggle using their reserves of arms supplies". He said the mujaheddin7 committed a big mistake by not conquering Jalalabad./{VOAPS)
     SEPTEMBER
                                    1
 * Speaking to foreign reporters for the f irst time 29 Augustsince last week's coup in the Soviet Union the
Kabul regime president Najibullah said he was confident the Soviet Union would back his government with vital food and weapons supplies despite the purging of his hardline allies in Moscow aft’er the failed coup. Links with Moscow, he said, had survived many upheavals. (PT)
*  An AIG spokesman told AAP that Afghan mujaheddin were insisting for holding direct talks with the Soviet Union and the AIG was fully prepared to arrange and participate in the negotiations. (PT)
*  The body of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rehman, Amir of Jamaat-ud-Dawat Wal Sunnah, who was assassinated 30 August, was laid to rest in Khar, Bajo’ur Agency 31 August, reports ANA. Addressing the mourning process\ the new Amir of ' the party, Mawlawi Samiullah, who was elected in an emergency meeting of Jamaat-ud-Dawat 30 August, vowed to continue the mission of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman. (MLM)
*  Mujaheddin downed two military helicopters of Kabul regime in the east of Ghazni city 28 August, Both the helicopters crashed and the crew were, killed, (MLM)
*  A one-day local seminar on "Current International* Regional and Arab approach to Afghanistan" was held at ) the Rural Academy Peshawar 31 August. Addressing the seminar Rasool Amin, Director of Writers Union of Free Afghanistan WUFA said that the time for expansionism and domination was over and the Afghan people taught a lesson to the invaders of any age. Abdur Rahman Siddiqi, Editor-in-Chief of the Defense Journal Karachi, addressing the seminar said that the Soviet invasion had accelerated self-destructive process and polarization in the Afghan society in addition to stirring up • a nation-wide
287
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HfftHANJIHAD               VOL.  4 NO.4
 resistance. He said as soon as American weapons and money reached Afghanistan the situation was s changed with mujaheddin adopting new tactics of warfare. It turned to a mobile fight rather than a guetilla war.
     Mushahid Hussain, a prominent Pakistani journalist, in his address disclosed that more than 90 percent of the US administration officials favor an urgent stoppage of military support to the Afghan mujaheddin.* He also said that Saudi Arabia was now inclined towards moderate mujaheddin parties, especially the groups of Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Pir . Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, because some other mujaheddin organizations had supported Saddam Hussain in the Gulf War. Former Afghan diplomat, Mohammad Hakim Ayubi in his address said that following the Soviet withdrawal a relative unity in the ranks of the mujaheddin had faded away. He suggested that the Afghan people should be given the right to determine their future through indigenous and traditional Afghan method, devoid of foreign interference. (NTN)
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 31 August on his return from tripartite conference on Afghanistan in Tehran, Pakistan's Foreign Affairs Secretary General, Akram Zaki said, signal has been sent to the Soviet Union through the Tehran Declaration that Afghan leaders were ready for serious dialogue with Soviet leadership to settle the issue. "The recent developments in the Soviet Union have created. an opportunity for peaceful solution of the Afghanistan question", he said. Some Afghan brothers who did not come, would see new opportunities and take a positive approach towards finding a permanent solution of. the Afghanistan issue, Akram Zaki said. Burhanuddin Rabbani, head of JIA, who also attended the conference alongwith 24 other Afghan leaders said the mujaheddin had
 to take political initiatives in the wake of global changes taking place. He further said the Afghan groups have agreed for substantive negotiations with Soviet Union to find a permanent’ solution of the crisis. (PT)
                 /
 * Two HIA (Hekmatyar) representatives,
                      \ > Qari Momen and Mawlawi Buzurg, attended
 the funeral of the late Mawlawi
 Jamil-ur-Rahman. The reconciliation
 commission of the two parties
 comprising Sayyed Noorullah Emad, Ustad
 Ahmadzai, Haji Deen Mohammad, Mohammad
 Yasser and a large number of Pakistani
 political and religious personalities
 had also attended.
      Fazl-ur-Rabbi, a member from Mawlawi  Jamil-ur-Rahman                party, said
 later that a large number of religious figures  from    the various mujaheddin
 organizations and Pakistan delivered speeches on the personality of the late Mawlana «iamil-ur-Rahman.
    , The ANA published Hekmatyar's message  which   was               sent from inside
 Afghanistan. The message expressed sorrow and deep grief over the demise of the late Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman and sympathy with his family for this loss. The message added that his assassination was the result of conspiracies of elements be,nt to create and fan differences and misunderstanding among the mujaheddin.
 (VOAPS)
 *  According to ANA Abdullah Romi, Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman's assassin, was an Egyptian citizen and was employed at the A1 Jehad magazine published by the late Dr. Abdullah Ezzam's office since two years. The NWFP police have arrested four Arab friends of Abdullah Romi in connection with assassination.
 (voaps)                      h : v;;             '
                               ■ • 1            ■*!
 * ■ The HIA mujaheddin have repulsed a fresh Kabul regime force including
288
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         MANJllillll                VOL. 4 NO.4
 tanks and armored vehicles at Shahrak district, Ghor. They have also shot down a -jet-bomber between Shahrak and Toulak districts; (VOAPS)
 * Benazir Bhutto, the former Pakistani Premier, has said that the mujaheddin allies such as Iran & Saudi Arabia have their own interests in Afghanistan and Pakistan cannot possibly keep everyone satisfied. She said the UN enjoyed a better position . for bringing unity
 among the mujaheddin. "Pakistan will have to accept the UN formula which envisaged free and fair elections in the country," she said. Bhutto blamed • the ISI only because it wan-ted military solution to the Afghan issue but have now changed their mind.
 (BBCPS)
                                                  2
 * Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 2 September Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Chief of JIA disclosed that in the tripartite conference in Tehran both Pakistan and Iran took strong exception to the five-point UN formula and rejected any role for Najib and other communists in the future of Afghanistan. He said in the backdrop of Moscow's drama1 and sudden changes in Soviet Union some new points remained under discussion during the meeting. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 2 September the Consul General of Iran has said the only interest of both Pakistan and Iran was to stop the bloodshed of their brethren across the borders at £he earliest through any workable solution. Iran, he said, had never drawn a line between the Shias and Sunnis and it was also not correct that his country was in any way influenced by a particular group of the Afghan Shias based in Iran. He disclosed that HIA Chief, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and his deputies, had been
 invited to Iran and they were likely to visit Tehran in the near future. Similarly, the UN Secretary General, was being invited by the middle of this month so that his meeting with the resistance leaders could be arranged to discuss the five point plan. (MLM)
      l
 *  Soviet food and fuel supplies to Afghanistan appear to have virtually dried up since the political convulsions in the Soviet Union. Petrol and diesel shortages in Kabul are beginning to bite. Black market prices of both have nearly doubled in recent weeks and transport operators say they are cutting services. Five* litres petrol now costs ^bout 3,500 Afghanis. (MLM)
 *  Talking to newsmen in Quetta 1 September the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, said the Soviet, role in the solution of the Afghan issue was inevitable and "we are, therefore, in constant^ contact with them". He said positive progress was made towards the solution of the issue.
 (JG)
 *  An ANA correspondent has disclosed the discovery of the bodies of some 300 persons in three underground bunkers at different places in Kunar Province. Most/of them are believed to be local people and belonging to HIA. One of the bunkers is located near an area recently captured by HIA from Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman group. Some pairts bf the human bodies were also found near Pakistan-Afghanistan border at Torkham.
 (JG)
 *  Informed sources say , that the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, has urged an early political settlement of the Afghan issue in the wake of reqent developments in the Soviet Union, particularly the declaration of independence by some central Asian Republics. (NWT) '
289
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
         3
VOL. 4 NO.4
 *  Mawlawi Samai-ul-Haq, the new leader
 of the Jamaat-ud-Dawat, elected by the Executive Council of the Party, has said tha^: the motive behind the murder of the late Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman has not come out yet but a joint commission has been set up to cooperate with the Pakistani, police in this respect. An Arab source said a joint commission was established under Asama-bin-Belal, a Saudi Arabian odtizen, to solve the dispute between the HIA and the Jamaat-ud-Dawat. Both sides had agreed to respect the decisions of the commission. The agreement was initialled by Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman prior to his assassination. (VOAPS)    ,
 *   Siddiq Afghan, the founder of
 philosophic mathematics held a lecture at the Scientific Council of         the
 Institute for Social Sciences 3 September in which he threw light on his research and inventions in this respect. (RA)
 *  Commander Mawlawi Khuda Dad reports
 ifrom Gulran, Herat, that in        the
 mujaheddin joint attack on communist positions 31 August, the regime tribal battalion under Mula Zareen was captured. Forty-five militiamen,     one
 tank, three trucks and 45 various types of light and heavy weapons were captured by the mujaheddin. The Giilran district has come under the mujaheddin complete siege. (VOADS) ’ ■
                     4
 *    The Americans 0 are reportedly seriously considering giving one final push to the Soviet installed regime in Kabul. The western diplomats believe the Najibullah regime in Kabul1 is ripe for toppling, since it is entirely dependent on grain, guns and petrol
 from the Soviet Union and this lifeline may be cut . in the very near future. Boris Yeltsin has reportedly ordered all Russian arms to stop going to Afghanistan. The US State Department, according to sources, is considering to take advantage of the situation. (MLM)
 *   UN Secretary General's special
 envoy, Benon Sevan, would pay one-day visit to Kabul .      4 September in
 connection with finding a political solution to the Afghan issue, BBC reported. During his visit he is likely to hold talks with Kabul regime president Najibullah, officials of the regime foreign ministry and the Soviet Ambassador in Kabul. (PT)
 *  The Afghan Consul in Peshawar in a press statement 3 September described as totally incorrect a news item published in a section , of the press pertaining to stoppage of wheat from Soviet Union to Afghanistan. Commenting on the press conference of Prof. Rabbani the Afghan Consul said that the resistance leaders needed to hold direct negotiations with the Kabul regime to end the ongoing bloodshed. (NTN)
 *    Heavy fighting between the mujaheddin and Kabul regime forces has been reported from Kandahar where the mujaheddin attacked Kandahar airport. Some installations of the airport were hit and some vehicles destroyed. In another attack on Kandahar the mujaheddin destroyed the regime telecommunication system. (NTN)
 *  Addressing a press9 conference in Peshawar 3 September, the newly elected Amir of Jama®ft-ud-bawat, Mawlawi Samiullah, said $jfre only motive behind the brutal assasination of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman was to create confrontation among different Afghan resistance groups. He Said the murderer was not known to Mawlawi Jamil nor any
290
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
evidence of his connection with Hekmatyar group has been found. (MLM)
 authoritative delegation to Kunar for
*   Tom Gouttierre, Director of Center for Afghanistan Studies at the University of Nebraska in the US, said, "as , the Soviet Empire is breaking up it will be unbelievable to see that the Central Asian republics such as Uzbekistan, Tajikestan and Turkmenistan were Still following the old Soviet policy". He added that the mujaheddin must form a united front for holding talks with the foreign sides of the problem. They should not remain as observers in relation to the solution of their country's problem. He said the world policy would not be the same as in the piast. Everything is being changed and newly developed. "This is a golden chance for the peaceful solution of the Afghan issue which should not be missed," he concluded. (VOADS)
*   Following the recent internal fighting in Kunar and the looting of the ACBAR relief committee, the organization consisting of 58 foreign and Afghan non-government Organizations, has decided to suspend all activities in the province until the situation is normalized. (VOADS)
                    5
*   The visiting US envoy for Afghan mujaheddin, Peter Tomsen, discussed in Islamabad with the Secretary General Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, the early settlement of> Afghanistan issue and reviewed prospects of success especially in the light of the current developments in the Soviet Union. He also assured continued US' humanitarian assistance to alleviate the hardships of the Afghan refugees. (PT) *
 * Joint delegations of HIA (Hekmatyar) and Jamaat-ud-Dawat met in Peshawar 4 September and endorsed the decision of the party chiefs to send an
 resolving all the differences between the two parties, reports ANA (PT)
 *  An earlier official spokesman of
 Hezbullah Afghan, Ali Hassan Mohammadi, has joined the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan after the merger of the Hezbullah in the Council comprising             Harakat-e-Islami,
 Shoora-e-Ittifaq,  Pasdaran-e-Jehad and
 Jabha-e-muttahidda. (MLM)
 *  Kabul regime war planes heavily
 bombed Taluqan,    Takhar 4 September
 killing and injuring a large number of people and causing colossal damage to property. (MLM)
 *  The Kabul regime militiamen and
 police forces      clashed  over    the
 distribution of    /looted  goods   and
 material in which more than 20 militiamen and eight policemen were killed and 12 other militiamen and six policemen were injured 3 September. Another report said that due to general amnesty announced by the mujaheddin commanders 12 militiamen, including their commander Dost Mohammad, defected to the mujaheddin in Jauzjan province.
 (NTN)
 * The Nation writes in its editorial 5 November that behind efforts of seeking a negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, plans are on the anvil to launch another military offensive against the Kabul regime. The US and the Saudis are said to have given a green signal to making a last effort >to topple Najibullah regime. To say the obvious, the mujaheddin, despite their vows to continue the jehad till victory, are by no means geared up to fight a sustained war, and the Kabul regime is not yet in such a disarray to concede a walkover. What really needs to be done is to open a dialogue with Moscow and persuade whoever is currently in-charge of Afghan affairs to dump, the remnants of
291
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
111
 VOL. 4 NO.4
 the old order in Afghanistan and let the Afghan people also freely decide their political destiny. (NTN)
 * Radio Kabul says that in a rocket attack on Kabul three persons were killed and seven injured. According to the radio announcement, four of the rockets hit residential areas. (BBCPS)
 * Sayyed Shamsuddin Majruh, a former Deputy Prime Minister, believes that the value they placed on Afghanistan in the Soviet Union prior to the coup will no longer be the same. The recent Soviet coup does not affect the Kabul regime alone but also the entire world, he said. The Soviets had plenty of interest in the Kabul regime and had termed it a brother party. All this has practically vanished and communism is, in fact, completely dead and the lid of its coffin is firmly nailed.
      Majruh said, "in the event of the Soviet arms cut to the Kabul regime, the latter will face tremendous difficulties. But h^igh-ranking government and party officials will not be affected at all but will rejoice over the problems and sufferings of ordinary public who will eventually be forced to swallow down tree-leaves. (VOAPS)
                     6
 * The Muslim says in its editorial 6 September that it was startling to gather from a report that 1.3 million of the Afghan refugees in Pakistan have qualified for citizenship. Looming on the horizon is the stoppage of all aid for the Afghan refugees which is supposed to take effect by the end of this month. Formerly this country was meeting about half the food requirements for the refugees with the rest coming from other countries. In 1989, the rations for the refugees was drastically reduced and the Pakistan government, already groaning under the
 burden of contributing half of what was given to them, came under severe strain. It has, however, been managing to do its bit since then but the question now is, what does it propose to do after the 30th of September. It should not be at all difficult for anyone to imagine what 1.3 million hungry people, armed to the teeth, are capable of doing when they are denied food. Notwithstanding the tripartite talks held in Tehran recently and those scheduled for the future, the possibility of a peaceful solution to the Afghan problem seems as distant as ever. When it is said that the refugees would not welcome repatriation, it must be remembered that considerable numbers of them are now running very profitable business, particularly in the NWFP. That this has not yet resulted in the eruption of open fracas between the. refugees and the locals is because they have tribal and ethnic links. This could happen at any time in the future, so the sooner the refugees go home, the better. "Hunger is no respecter of traditions" the editorial said. (MLM)
 *  Eye-witnesses returning from Kabul told MIDIA that the transportation system was hard hit due to lack of fuel, and thousands of people covered long distances on foot. The general transport to Logar province was completely stopped due to fuel crisis. (MLM)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin captured 16 military trucks and huge, quantity of. arms and ammunition when they attacked the military centers of regime forces in Gulran district, Herat. 3 September. They also captured a number of military bases and inflicted losses to the regime forces. The mujaheddin also destroyed one tank and two military trucks loaded with weapons on the Kandahar highway 4 September killing 12 militiamen and seriously injuring eight others. Eight militiamen were kiiled
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         BIGHflHJlllAO              VOL. 4 NO.4
 and another one was apprehended when the mujaheddin attacked the security belt of Shindand airbase 3 September. (PT)
 *  Dr. Abdullah Al-Mohsen, Al-Turki, Special envoy of King Fahad of Saudi Arabia, assured full Saudi cooperatipn for promoting a just political settlement of Afghanistan issue when he called on the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif, in Islamabad 5 September., (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 5 September Mohammad Afzal Khan, MNA, has said that Pakistan and Iran have verbally accepted the UN plan for Afghanistan but practically they wanted a military solution of the issue in order to establish a government of their own choice in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, paid a visit to Germany after the Tehran conference where he held an interview with the Deutsche Welle. In answer to a question he said he undertook the; trip in order to visit The Afghans there upon their own request. He said he intended to consult them on matters of interest regarding the Afghan conflict. Mujaddedi added that he had been to and fro between the US and Germany several times for this purpose. Regarding the situation in the Soviet Unin, he said that he had been asked by Boris Yeltsin some 10-12 months ago to visit the USSR for revealing to the Soviet public the crimes committed by the Red Army in Afghanistan. He said the message was delivered to him by a member of the Russian Parliament, which was later followed by a personal telegram from Yeltsin himself in which he had addressed him as "President."
       About the results of the Tehran tripartite      conference     Mujaddedi
 said a message was sent to .Moscow in
which Yeitsin and Gorbachev were urged to cut their supplies to the Kabul regime. He said it was also decided to send delegations both to the UN General Assembly as well as the OIC conference in Dakar.
     Regarding the UN peace plan for Afghanistan he said it was not much of a plan. "We have drafted a plan of our own for the transfer of power. Three mujaheddin organizations have already signed it, and some other major or minor organizations such as those of Mawlawi Mansoor' and Moazin have also agreed to it. It is a very comprehensive plan and, God willing, nobody will reject it," he concluded. (VOGDS)
*   Press reports indicate that the tanks captured by Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War have reached the Karachi Port which will be delivered to the mujaheddin by the ISI afte’r they have gone through some minor repair operations. (VOAPS)
*   The General Council of mujaheddin Commanders and the Shoora of Ulama have recently issued a joint communique urging the resistance forces to take serious measures. The communique states, "the mujaheddin leaders and all those individuals, whether Sunni or
      i
Shia, who have a say in the decisions of the mujaheddin organizations, are respectfully requested to forge unity among them according to the objectives of our jehad and to take urgent steps for establishing an Islamic govenment in Afghanistan". (VOAPS)
                  7
*   Reliable Afghan sources told the , Nawa-e-waqt that a certain number of light arms captured in the Gulf War from Iraq has been supplied directly to the Afghan mujaheddin commanders by the US. (NWT)
293
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991       MMIIIN Jlllllfl
VOL. 4 NO.4
 *  The former Afghan Monarch Mohammad Zaher Shah says that the vast political changes brought about as a result of the success of the Afghan jehad throughout the world in general and in the former Soviet Union in particular can be considered as an unforgettable historic and political event for the region and the world. He added that there was no reason that the people of Afghanistan should not yet reach their basic objectives of their historic jehad.
      Regarding the tripartite Islamabad and Tehran conferences he observed, „ these efforts    have been  initiated in
 support of the UN peace plan for Afghanistan but from the form and content viewpoints, he said, it has become a matter of concern for the people of Afghanistan. The brotherly stances of Iran and Pakistan and their support for the rights of the Afghan people are respected by our people, he said. But, he added, the formation of a tripartite conference with two non-Afghan sides will not only not help solve the issue but will cause misunderstanding and concern in Afghan national circles.
      He said,   if those   concerned in
 jehad affairs and effective Afghan elements do not take urgent measures for adopting an acceptable policy for the just solution of the Afghanistan problem, it is feared that it will add to the miseries of the oppressed people as this will further complicate the problem. (VOADS) *
 *  It is reported   that    hundreds of
 commanders in   the  eastern parts   of
 Afghanistan have gathered in Khost to review their military strategy in the aftermath of the abortive Soviet coup. Some commanders think of renewed operations whereas others believe that a political solution would be a better way to end the conflict. (BBCPS)
 * Dr.Mohammad Amin Farhang, professor of economic at Bochom University in German has said great changes have taken pj_ace in Soviet Union within a notably brief period. A new era of relations between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union is going to begin. At this golden opportunity, which may be very short living, it is upto the mujaheddin elements comprising the commanders, the mujaheddin- leaders, Mohammad Zaher,the ex-Afghan Monarch, well-known figures inside Afghanistan and a large • number of intellectuals to come to an understanding among them and make it known to Kabul regime that it was high time to hand over the power to the true representatives of the nation. In relation to the -Islamabad and Tehran tripartite conference he said that foreign countries had an interest of their own. An inter-Afghan understanding can be brought about by the Afghans themselves. (VOADS)
                  8
         y         I
 * The special envoy of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, Abdullah Al-Mohsen' Al-Turki,. met Afghan leaders including Hekmatyar, Sayyaf,Khales, Samiullah and others, in Peshawar 6 and 7 September and discussed developments in Kunar province of Afghanistan. He also urged for implementing the agreement reached between the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and the Chief of Jamaat-ud-Dawa.t, late Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman.(JG)
 * Ahmad Ali Jabraeli, the current spokesman of the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan, has said in an interview with The Muslim that tripartite talks on Afghanistan could be useful only if it concentrated on the freedom of Afghanistan and success of the Islamic revolution. He said that all groups involved in the Afghan jehad should be represented in the talks. He suggested that in case the tripartite talks failed to find an acceptable
294
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991
nRNM*
VOL. 4 NO.4
solution the resistance groups and the commanders should have a joint meeting and should hold talks with Kremlin. (MLM)                       ‘
*   A UN spokesman, Francois Guiliani, told a tegular news briefing at the UN 6 September that the Secretary General, Perez-de-Cuellar will visit Tehran 9 September to participate in a tripartite meeting with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of . Pakistan and President. Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran. UN officials said that the top-level meeting will review the progress on the UN'plan in the light of the discussions the Secretary General's personal envoy, Benon Sevan, held with the parties to the Afghan Conflict-, including the mujaheddin groups in Pakistan and Iran. (MLM)
*   The AIG president, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has in an interview with Radio Deutche Welle, said that the AIG will hold direct talks with the Soviet Union for halting Soviet assistance to Kabul regime. He said during Tehran talks it was decided to support the UN plan without holding talks with the Kabul regime. (MLM)
*   Tehran Radio has said there are endeavors to forge unity among the mujaheddin with the intention to overthrow the Kabul regime during the coming winter season and a number of mujaheddin commanders agreed on this. (PT) *
 *  The .Afghan mujaheddin * carried a missile attack on the Ghazni airfield 6 September destroying ■, -(a regime helicopter and causing sevete damage to the runway. A number of regime soldiers were killed and injured in the attack. The mujaheddin also repulsed a regime militia offensive on their positions in Kandahar. In Zabul two regime soldiers surrendered to the mujaheddin 6 September. (PT)
 ■SHI ,
 *   Zabet Omar, representative of Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, regarding a meeting in Khost said, "a joint shoora of the Paktia and Paktika provinces was formed in Khost 6 September to take necessary measures for an organized combat program. The decisions will not be for Gardaiz only. All the commanders from Paktia, Paktika and the surroundings of Ghazni had attended the meeting. A declaration was issued urging decisive operations on all targets. These targets are all predetermind and include Ghazni, Gardaiz, Logar, Maidan and the surroundings of Kabul (VOAPS)
 *   Shoora-e-Wahdat-e-Islami (Islamic Alliance Council) is the only Sunni organization stationed in Iran. Hafizullah Seerat Taluqani, leader of the organization said regarding the Tehran tripartite conference that every subject was debated in a free and democratic atmosphere, and the right to self-determination of the Afghans was confirmed. He said, all tribal and ethnic groups of Afghanistan were represented in the conference. (VOADS)
                   9
                    i
 *   In an informal chat with the journalists in • Peshawar 8 September William Lander King, Information Attache of the US embassy in Islamabad, said an agreement between USA and USSR about the Afghan question is under consideration. He said that the •scheduled visit of US Secretary of State, James Baker, to. Russia, is expected to help in finding out a peaceful solution of the Afghan issue.- Americans, he said, had nothing to do with the civil war going on inside Afghanistan. (MLM)
 * In an interview with a group of Arab journalists inside Afghanistan 6 September Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, said that time will reveal the
295
                                                                     JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1991 mmmKmmmmimmmmmmm
 true facts and designs behind the ' assassination threat to his life by an Iranian official daily* He said the death decree against his person is not the result of personal grudge against him or anything unexpected and surprising. When HIA did not attend the tripartite Tehran conference, he said, the task flopped and it infuriated Iran. He said that a handful of sectarian elements in Iran are opposing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. They are scared of the strength and discipline of HIA which is determined to establish a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. Regarding the assassination of Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman, he said had his killer not been killed, the real plot behind his martyrdom would have been unearthed. He questioned as to why the killer was killed after being caught alive? (mlm)
 *  The three-day meeting of the
 mujaheddin commanders from the seven major political organizations for devising plans for launching attack on Gardaiz garrison and resolving the petty     differences,   unanimously
 appointed two commanders' Shooras each comprising seven commanders from all the seven major political parties of mujaheddin. One Shoora is assigned the task of devising a plan for attack on Gardaiz which besides approving the plan will also supervise the mujaheddin operations. The second Shoora will take over the administration of Khost. (PT)
 * The mu-jaheddin are preparing for a major operation against the regime in Kabul, Radio Moscow said adding that the developments in the Soviet Union have led Kabul regime to an uncertain position. (JG)
 * In an armed clash between Khalq and Parcham factions in Jauzjan province 50 persons were killed and 70 others were injured. Meanwhile, one Afghan mujahed
 VOL. 4 no.4
 was killed and 11 others were seriously injured when Kabul regime warplanes severely bombed the mujaheddin targets in Samangan province. In Shakardara near Kabul four militiamen were killed and 10 captured. A large number of arms were also captured by the mujaheddin. (JG)
 * A reliable source told The Nation in Peshawar 8 September that following changes in the Soviet Union the supporters of the mujaheddin are persuading them to launch an attack on Afghanistan in order to replace the Kabul regime "by one of their selectee". The source said that Afghan mujaheddin for following the Saudi-US plan had received sophisticated arms. (NTN)
 * The daily Frankfurter Rundschau of Germany writes that the Soviet militants did not rule out the possibility of another intervention in Afghanistan only. a few weeks ago, whereas, Boris Yeltsin was demanding the ban on Soviet assistance to Afghanistan. The paper says that over DM 100 million worth of weapons, food supplies and spare-parts are sent to Kabul each month. We can hardly believe that this trend will continue for ever.
      The. paper adds that. Afghanistan has been divided into three parts. The cities and their surrounding areas are controlled by Najib who has managed to buy the loyalty of some commanders by Russian money. One-third of the country is under the direct control of independent mujaheddin commanders. The remaining part is under the influence of the seven members mujaheddin alliance based in Peshawar.
      The country's political figures in exile are carrying on their work independently from the internal commanders. "Any temptation to bring all these groups together will not work as they are all well armed," the paper concluded. (VOGDS)
296
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        HfGllflNJdlflil            VOL.  4 NO.4
*    Commander Mohammad Anwar of Jegdalek, assessed the effects of the Russian arms ban on the Kabul regime as follows:
     By loosing supporters such as the former Soviet Defense Minister and the KGB Chief and with the communist regime in the Soviet Union being completely shattered, the Kabul regime has been stricken with panic. It has built up human shields for itself both against the mujaheddin rockets and the economic problems.
     With the fall of communism in Russia it is expected that the Kabul regime will also face a downfall. The mujaheddin have worked out a plan to avoid a vacuum and maintain order for elections. We suggest that all the groups take part in a broad-based government. We believe that those who have migrated to Europe and America are enemies of communism and support the Afghan jehad. (VOADS)
                   10
*  In an interview broadcast by VOA,
Akram Zaki, Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, said that in recent talks in Tehran on Afghanistan a considerable headway had been made. Steps were also taken for unity among different organizations of Afghan mujaheddin and they had accepted that efforts ■should be made for a political solution to the problem, because of the international      atmosphere     being
conducive. They have decided that a delegation would be sent to New York to meet 'the UN Secretary General. They have also expressed desire for direct talks with *the Soviet Union and to project their standpoint in Islamic countries as well. (PT)
 *  A handout released by APP 9 September has described as tendentious
 and baseless speculative reports published recently by domestic and international media about impending mujaheddin offensive with the backing of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the US. It said such rumors are being spread at a time when,, as a result of the historic changes in the Soviet Union, prospects of a political settlement have brightened and the mujaheddin are looking forward to a substantive dialogue with the Soviets to achieve an early settlement. (PT)
 * Speakers at a meeting organized by
 Ziaul Haq International Foundation in New York 8 September said that General Zia was the hero of Afghan jehad, his courage in the face,of the crisis was remarkable     and      his     planning
 forward-looking. They said the humiliation suffered by more than
 125,000 Soviet troops in Afghanistan at the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin was the main cause of the collapse of the Soviet Union. (PT)
 *  Addressing students and teachers of the Dawat and Jehad University at Pabbi 9 September the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that many regimes and governments have joined hands to prevent the realisation of the goals of our great struggle and we are surrounded by waves of dangerous conspiracies and threats. He called upon the Afghan students to forget their regional, ethnic and party differences and devote themselves for the betterment of the lot of Muslims
^and their salvation. (NTN)
 *  Reliable sources in Islamabad say that efforts initiated by the special envoy of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, for reconciliation between various Afghan mujaheddin groups, have yielded results. The Afghan mujaheddin, the sources say, have decided to leave aside their differences and concentrate on their objective of establishing an
297
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HlGIIIlNJ1HI10             VOL. 4 NO.4
 Islamic government in Afghanistan. (JG)'
 *  BBC quoting Kabul radio has said that a visiting delegation of Soviet parliamentarians in Kabul has assured the. regime defense minister of continued Soviet assistance.(JG)
 * Taj Mohammad, a local secretary of the Afghan Mellat (Social Democrats), has been assassinated in Kohat by unknown persons. The Afghan Mellat party in a resolution has urged the Pakistan government and the UNHCR to protect the lives of their party members. (VOADS) ,
 * Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi, the AIG Minister of Public Health, had visited Geneva at the head of a delegation 15 August. The WHO has agreed to the 5-year plan submitted by the AIG Public Health Ministry to be implemented from the beginning of the next year (1992). (VOAPS)
                                                11
 * Fatehul Mulk Nang Yousufzai, an exparliamentarian of Afghanistan, in a press release issued in Peshawar 10 September, has said that various elements were hatching conspiracies against Afghanistan and the Iranian government was leading them. He said that Iranian leaders affiliated with a radical group of Muslims believing in Iranian nationalism, were attempting to divide Afghanistan by spending billions of rupees. About UN plan for Afghanistan, he said that the plan and the national reconciliation policy of Kabul regime president Najibullah were two projects of the same nature. (NTN)
 * MIDIA, quoting the Commanders Council, has said eight KHAD officers were killed when Afghan mujaheddin attacked their provincial headquarter in Logar province. Eighteen rifles were also captured by the mujaheddin. Meanwhile,
 the mujaheddin in their attack on Kandahar Airport killed and wounded several persons and blasted a big ammunition depot. They also killed 23 communists and injured 21 others in an operation in Paghman province. And in Ghazni province 27 communists, including army officers, .‘were killed and an ammunition dump and five tanks were destroyed by the mujaheddin. (JG)
 * The UN Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar. has reached Tehran for further efforts in connection with his plan for Afghanistan. (JG)
 * Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, at a student gathering on the occasion of the new academic year expressed concern over the financial crisis of the AIG. He said that states, governments, missions etc. were creating hurdles for the realization of jehad aims and for the Muslim Afghan nation to fulfill its religious obligations and historical mission. "Our enemies", he said, "wish to exploit the Afghan people under economic pressures against our jehad and the mujaheddin leaders." (BBCFS)
 * Amanullah Mansoori, Interior Minister prior to the communist coup in Afghanistan, said regarding the effects on Afghanistan of the latest abortive coup in the Soviet Union that the Kabul regime communist pillars have been shattered right at their base. The Soviet Union is facing tremendous political, economic and social problems which will no longer permit it to interfere elsewhere. The tripartite conferences in Islamabad and Tehran which were managed by non-Afghan authorities will not solve the Afghan problem. For the salvation of the country it is necessary that all patriotic ' elements contact each other as soon as possible and take practical measure      within     the     framework
 of a definite conception. Neither the
298
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 communist Kabul regime nor the AIG in Pakistan were able to obtain the consent of the Afghan nation. We must, therefore, look for fresh solutions.
 (VOADS)
                   12
 *  The Afghan commanders, Ustad Farid, Khalid Farooqi, Engineer Faiz Mohammad, Hazrat Mohammad, Abdul Baqi, Nasir and Mamoor Ghayyur have expressed deep sense of shock and anger over the threat thrown at Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, by Keyhan International, an official daily of Iran, in its issue 28 August. They •said that the Iranians were out to damage HIA and its leadership because they do not succumb to the interference of any alien country in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. Iran, they said, has come out in the political arena against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. The commanders said that this is not the first time Iran has held out threat to Muslim leaders but it is the first time it has issued a death decree against 'another Muslim. The commanders warned that such threats will not bow mujaheddin down to interference in their internal affairs. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime pilots and the' ground personnel of the Kabul Airport observed a one day strike 9 September to express their deep concern about the loose security of the pilots and to ask for an additional money .alongside the salary to face the high prices of consumer goods. They also called on the regime to conclude life insurance policies for the pilots. (PT) *
 *  Talking to newsmen in Peshawar 11 September, the Afghan Consul, Abdul Qayoom, said that all groups should accept the realities and arrange intra-Afghan dialogue according to the UN plan. He said the Kabul regime led by
 Najibullah was a party to the Afghan issue. (NTN)
 *  Political differences between Kabul regime President Najibullah and the former regime ruler Babrak Karmal are reported to have intensified after hectic efforts by the latter for the leadership of Watan Party. Anticipating another coup against him Najibullah has called on his four leading Generals for consultations. (JG)
 *  Radio Kabul reported that 12 rockets shook Kabul city in the early hours of 11 September killing four persons and wounding 33. (VOADS)
 *  Efforts in connection with peace in Afghanistan have apparently accelerated. The UN Secretary-General expressed concern that if an early political solution is not sought for the Afghanistan problem bloodshed in the country would continue. (BBCFS)
                  13
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin fired 11 rockets on Kabul 12 September killing four people and injuring 23. The rockets appeared to have landed in the vicinity of the city's airport. (PT)
 *  Two Afghan mujaheddin leaders, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Pir Ahmad Gailani, arrived in Tehran 11 September for talks with Iranian leaders and UN Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar, who is already there in an effort to end the Afghan war. (PT)
 *  Kabul Radio has reported that members of the visiting Supreme Soviet delegation have assured to continue Soviet assistance to Afghanistan. Western diplomats say it could not be known as to whose representatives are in the Soviet delegation visiting Kabul. Meanwhile, an informed Western diplomat has' described the prevailing
299
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
HI
VOL- 4 NO.4
 situation in Kabul as disappointing. The diplomat said that the petrol reserves in the capital could hardly meet requirements of only a few days. He added that use of vehicles has been banned except for most urgent works. He said, the Kabul regime, besides malting a request to the UN, has also asked the traders in Kabul to explore alternative ways for acquiring wheat. (MLM)
 *  Talking to Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Tehran, the UN Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar, has asked all the Afghan groups to stop their military operations in Afghanistan?, reports BBC. Later, talking to newsmen, he said there are apprehensions of a civil war . in Afghanistan. The visiting Afghan leaders, including Sebghatullah Mujad-dedi, supported the UN plan and desired that arms supplies to the concerned parties should be stopped. He said he had ordered his mujaheddin groups to halt their attacks on Kabul. He said that an interim body should be set up for running the affairs till the holding of elections in the country. (JG)
 *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said in an interview that a military coup against Najibullah would only- amount replacing one puppet regime with another and this would not enable us to achieve our objectives.
 (NWT)
 *  Twenty-nine persons are reported to have been killed so far in clashes between the Mangal and Chamkani tribes in Paktia province of Afghanistan due to the dispute over the ownership of property. More than 50 persons were also injured. (MLM) *
 * A meeting in support of former King Zaher Shah was held in Quetta. It was organized by Azizullah Wasefi, an ex-Minister of Agriculture. Commanders, tribal chieftains, ulama, intellectuals
 and religious figures attended the meeting. A resolution was passed in the meeting which says:
      Iran and Pakistan must refrain from interfering in Afghanistan's affairs and the UN should go ahead with its plan without foreign intervention. Since Mohammed Zaher Shah is supported by the majority of the nation, he should be invited to attend whenever there is a meeting about Afghanistan anywhere in the world. (VOAPDS)
 *  Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, told, the BBC in Tehran he had received news from Peshawar that a number of Pakistanis wanted to provide the necessary means for Hekmatyar and Tani to launch an attack on Kabul. "Even Najib has been contacted on this matter," he said.
 (BBCPS)
 *  Dr. Najib Yousufi, Chief of Personnel in the Department of National Reconstruction in Germany has told the VOA that the department was engaged in training in industry, agriculture, technology and the mass media. He said out of the 27,000 Afghans living in Germany 200 were medical doctors. Two hundred and fifteen persons were trained so far by the department and there were 2,300 applicants by Afghans residing in Germany for, enrolment in the courses run by the Department .of Reconstruction. "Austria and Switzerland are also interested to launch similar projects for Afghans residing in their respective countries" he said. (V0ADS)
                 14
 *  In a joint press conference of Foreign Ministers of the US and the Soviet Union in Moscow 13 September both the countries have announced to stop arming their allies in the Afghan
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
    conflict by the end of the year. They said they had reached an agreement aimed at ending what they called "nearly 12-year old Afghan civil war". They further agreed that neither the USSR nor the US will intjpvsif y arms supplies to any Afghan side in the interim period and called on other countries to do likewise. Meanwhile,
* Pakistan received a message from the US government that America and Soviet Union have decided to stop supply of . weapons to all parties to the conflict in Afghanistan. In the message the US Secretary of State, James Baker,, has said he hoped that an end to supply of weapons by Washington and Moscow to both the sides in the war will help in bringing , about a peaceful political . settlement of the Afghan problem in the near future. (PT)
    *  In    a statement issued at       UN
    headquarters 13 September the Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar, has welcomed the US-Soviet agreement to halt supplies to both sides in the Afghan conflict. He said the decision "represents a major contribution towards implementing one of the key provisions of 1 my, plan of May 21." He urged all others concerned to "take urgently . similar decisions in this direction." (PT) *
    *   President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan and the UN Secretary' General, Perez de Cuellar, during their hour long meeting in Tehran 12 September, agreed that the process of finding a political solution to the Afghan crisis is to be accelerated as further delay in securing a solution would be fatal. They agreed that there should be intra-Afghan dialogue and expressed satisfaction over the last two rounds of tripartite talks. The Secretary General was of the view that all ■parties should accelerate their efforts for an agreed solution. He also said that UN presence would be necessary for
 general elections to ensure their impartiality. (MLM)
 *  In an interview with the ANA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, has said that some Western powers and the discredited Afghan elements were conspiring to prevent the fall to the mujaheddin of the Najib regime. He said the mujaheddin would not tolerate an imposed regime from any side, and would resist such a government as they resisted the Soviet-Najib forces. He said there was no question of talking to Najib about the future of Afghanistan nor was there any chance of forming a coalition government with him. . Hekmatygr said that the Kabul regime was in a state of absolute distress and its days were numbered and nobody can guarantee its survival. (PT)
 *■ The Afghan mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime helicopter near Ghazni. The pilot and the three crew members' were killed ;on the spot. Three regime troops were also killed and one tank destroyed in the operation. They set ablaze an ammunition depot with the blasts continuing for several hours. The Kabul regime air force severely bombed the surrounding areas of Ghazni killing two mujaheddin and three children. (PT)
 *  Briefing newsmen after talks in Tehran between President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan and President Akbar Hashemi Rafsangani of Iran, the Pakistan Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan said that the President of Pakistan emphasized the need for the replacement of the regime in Afghanistan by a representative government of Afghan people. The Iranian President emphasized that it was an opportune time to find a positive solution of the Afghan problem by " political means. (MLM)
 * In his welcome address at a banquet
301
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
in honor of President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan in Tehran 12 September, President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran underlined the territorial integrity of Afghanistan and the right of Afghan people to self-determination. He said in our neighbourhood, we should like to see an independent, non-aligned and Islamic Afghanistan, having friendly relations with its neighbours. (NTN)
* • The          Kabul regime  President
Najibullah has welcomed the decision by the Soviet Union and the US to cut off arms supplies to the parties they have been supporting in the Afghan conflict, reports BBC. The regime's Presidential spokesman in Kabul called on the mujaheddin leaders riot to squander the opportunity for peace by engaging in action which would lead to bloodshed. Meanwhile, Radio Kabul in its Pushtu bulletin said Najibullah termed the agreement between the Soviet Union and the US as a positive step towards the early political settlement of the problem. A spokesman in Kabul said the main question now was to Work out the details of an intra-Afghan dialogue. (NTN)
*  The VOA interviewed a number of personalities regarding the US-Soviet accord on the ban of arms to the warring parties in the Afghan conflict a brief account of which appears below:.
     Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said, the Afghan mujaheddin particularly those termed as "moderates" will be affected more than any other group.
     Ayatullah Mohseni said, "as human beings arid Muslims we are naturally in favor of peace but not at the price of our objectves. It does not make any difference for us. We have not been receiving any arms for a long time now any way"•
      Sayyed Mohammad Gailani, son of Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gaillani, leader of NIFA, said that his organization had not received any arms for some 18 months. "The weapons have been supplied to organizations such as Hekmatyar's. it will in no way affect us", he concluded.
      Engineer Qutbuddin Helal, *Chief of HIA Political Affairs Department, said that Hekmatyar had already submitted a proposal to the effect. "We welcome the move", he said,
  » .
      Heshmatullah Muj.addedi, brother to the AIG President, said, "they should not have stopped the arms supply to us, because our jehad is legitimate and the mujaheddin have not yet reached their goals".
      Ishaq Gailani,a pro-Zaher Shah intellectual, said that we should be happy about it because the arms cut would induce them to turn their attentions to a political solution.
      Sabahuddin Kushkaki, a political figure and an outstanding Afghan journalist and a former Minister of Information and Culture, said the ban would affect the Kabul regime more than it would the mujaheddin. He said, "the mujaheddin started the jehad with only out of date weapons and even when their jehad had reached its peak, they were not receiving much of an arms. But they had the support of their arms. The Kabul regime, however, did not suffer from a lack of arms but from a lack of faith. He added, the ban could serve as a motive for a nego-ciated solution of the conflict. But if it was aimed at forcing the mujaheddin to consider negotiations with Najib, they would never agree to it and would rather continue their fight. (VOADS)
 * Mohammad Zaher, the former Afghan
 302
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Monarch i considered the arms ban as a positive step towards the realization of peace and the maintenance of security, in Afghanistan. He said that the measure would promote efforts for a peaceful solution of the problem but could not be the main factor for securing peace. (VOADS)
 * Prof.Mohammad Asghar, President of the National Salvation Society#
 said# "we welcome the agreement as an important step but it will not be enough because both sides have a pile-up of arms already". (VOADS)
                                              15
 * In an interview with BBC regarding US-Soviet ageement on Afghanistan# Pakistan's Foreign Secretary,Shaharyar Khan# has said if a negotiated package was worked out in the next two or three months# there were bright chances for the settlement of the Afghan issue. We have said all along that a ceasefire should be based on the negotiated package and the fact that it had emerged without a package that is somewhat a bit difficult.Shaharyar khan said it would have been better if this would have been done under a package which might include all problems like when an interim government could be formed and what would be its shape; when ceasefire would take place and what would be arrangements for the return of the Afghan refugees.. But, he added# the announcement was made without a package. However# he maintained that jany announcement which leads to political settlement or supports it# was appropriate. As regards the induction of Najibullah in an interim arrangement# the Foreign Secretary said, that Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin have rfiade it clear time and again that there, was no place for him in any interim regime. (PT)
*  Addressing a news conference in Moscow 14 September, the Soviet Foreign Minister# Boris Pankin, spoke of the need to review relations with Afghanistan. He said that the Afghan issue should be viewed in a similar way to the dispute with the US over Cuba. He also spoke of the need to remove any ideological elements from relations with Kabul. (MLM)
*  In an interview with BBC 14 September the Kabul regime President, Najibullah, said that fighting would continue in coming months despite the US-Soviet agreement •on discontinuing arms supplies to Afghan parties involved in the conflict. H6 said the main ally of the Afghan mujaheddin# Pakistan should not be isolated in the agreement otherwise it will continue supporting the resistance against the Kabul regime. Meanwhile# the Kabul regime President Najibullah summoned an emergency meeting . of his cabinet to assess the pros and cons of the US-Soviet agreement. No details were# however# made public. (MLM)
*  In his' reaction to the US-Soviet agreement to cut off arms supplies to Afghanistan# the AIG Foreign Minister# Burhanuddin Rabbani has said that the agreement will not affect * the mu jaheddin , because the arms supply to them had already been cut off. Regarding its becoming effective from January 1# 1991 the Amir of HIA Mawlawi Younus Khales said it meant that Kabul regime will continue receiving arms supplies during the interim period.
(JG)
*  In an interview with AAF# spokesmen
of HIA has said that Afghan jehad was launched without anybody's consent and would be carried to its logical culmination* The. UN Secretary General# he said# should not transgress his limits in this regard and should keep the importance of his status in mind. (NWT)                 -  •
303
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         fl[llHANJtHAO            “ VOL. 4  NO.4
 *  Talking in the Jang Forum in Lahore the renowned Indian journalist and intellectual, Bhabani Sein Gupta, has said the current US-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan would further complicate the things there. The situation at the moment is that three of the seven Afghan mujaheddin 'parties are willing to establish their government under the UN auspices while the remaining four parties are opposed to it, he said.
 (JG)
 *  Pakistan's former Foreign Minister, Agha Shahi, in an interview with the BBC from Geneva has said the situation in consequence of developments in the Soviet Union appear to be tilting in favor of the Afghan mujaheddin providing a natural opportunity for a political solution to the benefit of all the parties. He said the Kabul regime had started realizing that it was tpo weak to match the mujaheddin on the battle field. (JG)
 *   In an interview with ANA 14 September from inside Afghanistan, the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said Moscow's agreement bn negative symmetry speaks the truth that Soviets were ready to put an immediate end to the military supplies to Kabul but the Americans seemed unwilling just because they had no alternative for Najib. Had the supplies stopped to the regime it might have resulted in its removal and the establishment of ‘the mujaheddin government in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  Addressing a press conference at
 Press Club in Peshawar 14 September the Provincial     President      of     the
 Pukhtoonkhwa Melli Awami Party(PMAP) Mukhtiar Khan Yousafzai, welcomed the US-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan but said that before cutting arms supply to Afghanistan assurance should be sought from Pakistani officials for not supplying sophisticated arms to the mujaheddin forces. (NTN)
                                                                                                    304
 * Commenting on US-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan, The Nation says in its editorial 15 September that unless a modus-operandi for an interim administration is agreed upon by all the parties concerned there could be little hope of a real break-through in ending the civil war in Afghanistan. The mujaheddin have, hitherto, been insisting on Najibullah's removal from power' as a pre-requisite for the creation of a broad-based interim arrangement.. So long as the Soviets had a stake in Afghanistan and they were party to the conflict, they could have perhaps been persuaded to dump Najibullah in order to buy peace along their Central Asian frontier. Now they have decided to extricate themselves from Afghanistan and neither have' the capability nor the willingness to dictate terms to their former surrogates,       Najibullah,     unleBs
 abandoned by his own men, is not likely to be under pressure to abdicate. The super powers, the editorial says, have presented an Afghan solution more or lass as a faith-accompli. The U^-Soviet acc^fd on Afghanistan is symptomatic of the global mood and a veritable signal of things to come. It is time for all the parties concerned in the Afghan conflict, the mujaheddin in particular, to redesign their policies in accordance with the spirit of the times. An internationally supervised free and fair elections, by enabling the Afghan people to have a government of their own choice, is perhaps the best hope. (NTN)
 '* The daily Jang says in its editorial 15 September that the US-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan - has led the Afghan issue to a decisive stage. Whatever the solution, it must have the overwhelming support of the Afghan people. (JG)
 * The daily Nawa-i-f9aqt says in its editorial 15 September that the US-’
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Soviet agreement is an exercise in haste as the parties involved were neither consulted nor taken into confidence in its accomplishment. What an irony that when Eastern Europe has become independent and even the Soviet Baltic States have achieved complete sovereignty, Afghanistan is still groaning in the shackles of a Soviet puppet regime in Kabul. It is time, the' editorial says, that the Afghan problem was settled once and for all on the principle of "Afghanistan for the Afghans" and a representative democratic Islamic government set up in Afghanistan in the interest of South Asia.
 (NWT)
 *. Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of        the HIA
 told the ANA in connection with the I arms cut, "we had recommended long ago’ the US should stop its intervention. It; is obvious from the Soviet agreement1 that they are prepared to stop supply- ’ ing arms to the Kabul regime, but the US was not, because it did not have an alternative to Najib".
      Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales said in an interview to the VOA that the Soviet Union had constantly attempted     to acquire international
 recognition for the Kabul regime. The Soviets had supplied the regime with adequate     arms        fcnd would  further
 strengthen   it        during the remaining
 three months. He said, "we neither work, for the US nor agree with it. For us! the arms cut had already begun".
      Prof. Burhanuddin, leader of JIA, told Arabian correspondents that the agreement could be considered a positive step for the warring parties provided the Soviet Union adhered to it.
      Dr. Shahrukh Geran, the NILF commander for Kabul area, said, "the agreement is not fair^ The Kabul regime has technical superiority over the mujaheddin by possessing an air force and a. large arms arsenal". (VOAPS)
                  16
 * The NYT said 14 September that
 af^er the stoppage of weapons supply in consequence of US-Soviet agreement, Kabul regime President, Najibullah, may now appeal to other friendly nations like India and North Korea for new assistance. India is    Najibullah ,-sl
 best hope, the paper quoted Congressman Charles Wilson, as saying. In a despatch from Washington the NYT said that the end of Soviet-American support tp the two sides could "hasten the fall of the nation's Soviet-backed regime, but is unlikely to end the war itself"• (PT)
 *  In his reaction to the US-Soviet agreement the former Afghan Monarch, Zaher Shah, said on VOA that the negative symmetry was a positive step for restoring peace and security in Afghanistan. The stoppage of arms supplies to both the warring sides, he said, would be a factor in the success of political settlement to the Afghan conflict. The Afghans are not war mongers, rather war has been imposed on them, Zaher Shah concluded. (PT)
 *  The US-Soviet accord on Afghanistan has created panic among the Kabul
 •regime high officials who are now planning to flee the country, reports MIDIA quoting reliable sources. The regime prime Minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, facing no-confidence from the puppet Parliament, intends to leave for Moscow with his colleagues also seeking assylum in Europe. Afghan circles say that efforts are also under way to contact the former Monarch Zaher Shah and the US has undertaken diplomatic efforts to secure for him the support of Pakistan and Iran. (NWT)
 *  The Wasington Post says in its editorial that the Soviet aggression has put the Afghan society on the verge of a catastrophe. The paper says that
JULV-SEPTEMBER. 1991      flfflNJIHIIO                   VOL. 4 NO.4
 Soviet     aggression     has    turned
 Afghanistan into a graveyard. (JG)
 *  Reacting to US-Soviet accord on Afghanistan the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said the Afghan mujaheddin are not bound by the "unjust, self-motivated and one sided" accord reached between the Soviet Union and the US in respect to the resolution of Afghan dispute. He said "we are only bound by the interests of our nation and the fundamental aims of our jehad" and no compromise at the regional or international level can weaken our iron will. He said that the UN chief should study all the practical facts before attempting to win undue credit on the Afghan issue. (PT)
 *  Speaking on television 15 September the Kabul regime President Najibullah has offered a unilateral ceasefire in the wake of the US-Soviet accord saying "it would not mean surrender". He also warned that if military pressure by the mujaheddin resistance attempting to overthrow him continued the responsibility for the results would rest with the mujaheddin. (MLM)
 *  During the mujaheddin attack on Sar-e-Pul, Jauzjan, 12 September six Kabul regime posts were captured, 70 militiamen injured and another 15 killed. A considerable quantity of arms and ammunition also fell to the mujaheddin. The regime airforce retaliated with heavy bombing injuring eight mujaheddin. Three security posts also fell to the mujaheddin in the Khenjan district of Baghlan province 6 September. Eight Kayani militiamen were also captured. (PT) *
 * In a communique issued at the end of a four-day state visit to Iran 15 September by the President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan, both the countries have called for redoubling endeavours for an early political settlement in
 Afghanistan in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan people. (MLM)
 *  A large number of the mujaheddin leaders have expressed doubts over the negative symmetry between the two super powers and have considered it a plot to deceive mujaheddin and to further isolate them internationally, reports ANA. They feared massive arms induction to Kabul till January next. These leaders also include Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Dr. Farooq Azam, an AIG former Education Minister, and Prof. Rabbani. (NTN)
 *  Pakistan has cautiously lauded the agreement on negative symmetry 15 September with the hope that "the interim period would not be used to strengthen the illegal Najib regime" which had been rejected by the overwhelming majority of Afghans. The Nation understands from credible sources that Pakistan reaction was articulated in the light of discussions at a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister in Islamabad. (NTN)
 *  A spokesman of the Pakistan Foreign Office has expressed the hope that the US-Soviet agreement on Afghanistan would be faithfully implemented by both sides and the interim period would not be used to support and strengthen the illegal Najibullah regime, which has been rejected by an overwhelming majority of the Afghans, says a press release. (NTN)1
 *    Maj. Usman Ziarmal, General Secretary of the Afghan Social Democratic Party (ASDP), welcoming the US-Soviet accord on Afghanistan, has said that it jvere not only America and the Soviet Union which supplied arms to the Afghan rival groups, but most of the Afghans were getting sophisticated arms from other sources. So it was the need of the hour that such sources also accepted the accord and stopped arms'
306
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 supply to the Afghans. (NTN)
 * The Pakistan Times says in its editorial 16 September that with the latest US-Soviet accord on halting arms supplies to either side engaged in the conflict in Afghanistan,      there are
 hopeful signs that the issue will be resolved  in the near         future. A
 political process towards that end has already been initiated by Pakistan and Iran through the tripartite talks. Pakistan has made it very clear that it would not impose any settlement but leave it to the Afghan mujaheddin to decide about it among themselves. Pakistan has also made it known that it is against any military solution in Afghanistan. It is time that those of the mujaheddin who advocate such a solution show J^lexiblity by realizing that their rigid stance could jeopordize the prospects of peace in their country. They must redesign their policy in accordance with the spirit and needs of the time. With the hardliners out of favor in the USSR, now is an opportune moment to move towards a political settlement of the Afghan issue. (PT)
 *  Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Minister of Justice, regarding the arms ban on the warring parties in the Afghanistan conflict, observed that it had not come unexpectedly but "it is a positive move and a step forward towards the political solution of the Afghan problem, which will not be the only factor for peace in Afghanistan". (VOADS)
                    17
 *  The Azad Kashmir Prime Minister, Sardar Mohammad Abdul Qayyum Khan, said in Islamabad 16 September that India has planned to supply Kabul regime the Soviet arms and ammunition which it has discarded. He called upon the Islamic countries to evolve a common strategy against India if it cooperated with
usurpers to deprive the Afghan people of their basic human rights. (PT)
*  The daily Jang 4n its editorial 17 September advised the Afghan mujaheddin to close their ranks to lead the Afghan jehad to its logical culmination. The editorial says that the US has already started its massive financial assistance to Najibullah regime in Afghanistan and the US, the Soviet Union and India can also covertly supply weapons to Kabul regime to prevent the establishment of the government of the mujaheddin. (JG)
*    The Kabul regime President Najibullah has asked all the political forces of the country to abandon their obstinacy under which they negated any role to him and his party in any further set up. He appealed to them to take practical steps towards political settlement of the Afghan conflict and said the atmosphere was now condusive for the restoration of peace. (MLM)
*  The Kabul regime President Najibullah has asked the army to work out ceasefire agreement with • local resistance leaders and said all sides interested in peace settlement should sit down for extensive talks. Radio Kabul said 16 September. (NTN)
*  HI A (Hekmat-yar) has outrightly rejected the ceasefire annouriced by Kabul. A spokesman of the Party said in Peshawar 16 September the resistance will only agree to a ceasefire after a credible interim government, acceptable to all its forces, took over in Kabul. In response to a question that Najib had shown his readiness to introduce a very low-level delegation to the intra-Afghan dialogue, the spokesman said that it would never accept any Watan Party man at any level in the talks. (MLM)
*  Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 16 September, Pakistan Foreign Secretary,
307
JULY-SERTEMBER. 1991
 Shaharyar Khan# said the Kabul regime has indicated its willingness to participate in the intra-Afghan dialogue without Najibullah as suggested by the UN Secretary General. He said that Pakistan was keen that some of the points in the UN plan are clearly defined. About the US-Soviet accord on negative symmetry Shaharyar Khan said the symmetry should have been a part of the package embracing all the other four points suggested by the UN Secretary General for a political settlement of the issue. What was now important, for us, Shaharyar Khan said# was the faithful implementation of the negative     symmetry.     An     Indian
 correspondent asked him if Kabul regime starts buying arms from India how will it affect the situation? He said "it will be unfortunate"# if India does so. (MLM)
VOL. 4 NO.4
 Afghan sides# "it is a welco’me news but why wait until 1 January. The arms embargo could have beeh enforced in the month of September". He added that the Soviets have been known for defying international treaties in the past. "To withdraw main weapons from the battle field is also a desirable plan#" he said"# but it is important to specify these weapons. If it includes the SCUD missiles# then in my opinion war-planes, tanks and heavy artillery must also be included#, he said. (VOADS) Mohammad Younus Qanooni, chief of the Political Office of the General Commanders Council, considered the move futile and useless and that it wouid only benefit the fading puppet Kabul regime and would increase bloodshed in the country. Regarding general elections he said that except members of the Kabul regime ruling party others could freely participate. (BBCPS)
 * Eleven Kabul regime troops were killed and a number of others injured when the mujaheddin attacked the regime security posts near Kabul, reports Radio Pakistan. The mujaheddin have also taken over the control of Kabul-Jalal-abad Highway. (JG)
 *  The mujaheddin have captured a center of Kabul regime troops in Khord Kabul area of the Kabul Province. In retaliation the regime airforce severely bombed the area. There are also reports of clashes in Baghlan, Samangan and Takhar provinces. (JG)
 * In an interview Malik Nader Khan, a leader of Tribal Peace Mission# told The Nation that the Soviet-US negative symmetry accord was a post suitable formula for the settlement of Afghan crisis and was a positive step in this direction. (NTN) *
 *  Anthony Arnold, a specialist on Afghanistan and writer of the book bn the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, said in connection with the US-Soviet accord on the ban of arms supply to the
                 18
 *  The Kabul regime Ambassador to
 India, Ahmad Sarwar# at a press a conference in New Delhi 17 September, has welcomed the US-Soviet accord on ending arms supplies to warring factions in Afghanistan and said that unless Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran did the same, there could be no permanent peace in Afghanistan. In case these countries continue   to provide arms    to the
 resistance groups the Kabul regime would be forced to procure arms from outside, he said. The envoy warned that if there was no political will to implement the US-Soviet decision, it would meet the same fate as that of the Geneva Accords of 1988. (MLM)
                                   {
 * Addressing a gathering at Shamshatu. refugee camp in Peshawar 17 September, the Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, Hekmatyar, said the mujaheddin will not accept any system or government in which a single communist was included
308
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
            ■MR
VOL. 4 NO.4
and those insi-sting on intra-Afghan dialogue in fact wanted? to give an edge to Kabul. fle said that desperate attempts were being made by Washington to make sure that Kabul regime did not collapse at the hands of the mujaheddin. (MLM)
*  Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chief of JIA and the AIG acting Foreign Minister has said that the Kabul regime was lacking authority and command and Najib's recent so-called ceasefire offer was only a hoax to raise the morale of his defeated troops. (MLM)
*  The AIG Minister for Information, Najibullah Lafrai, has said the kind of ceasefire announced by Kabul regime President Najibullah did not do good in the past and will not deliver any good in future too. In the past he called for ceasefire and at the same time intensified bombardment. This time he also called for ceasefire but at the same time he threatened the mujaheddin against continuation of war. (PT)
*  Price hike in Kabul has compelled the residents to leave the city. They are putting their household appliances on sale in order to get at least the necessary funds to reach safer areas under the mujaheddin control. Some of the locals having sufficient money are leaving for neighbouring Iran and Pakistan or other foreign countries. As the communist regime seemed not be able to provide fuel and other basic commodities for locals, they also seem to take no notice of their exodus. (PT) *
 * The Nation says in its editorial 18 September that the Kabul regime's offer to participate in any future intra-Afghan dialogue without President Najibullah indicates a greater than ever urge for a compromise. And it is perhaps for the first time since the hostilities began that there exists a real opportunity for all Afghan
factions to sit together and explore the possibilities of a grand Afghan national reconciliation. The choice between war and peace has to be made now and Islamabad must take the lead to pave the way for the beginning of direct talks between the parties directly involved in the conflict. To make virtue out of necessity the negative symmetry accord should be accepted in goo’d grace as a dictate of history and efforts be made to extend its scope to all other external benefactors of one or the other Afghan factions. Let the Afghan conflict be entirely internalized, before other foreign powers, such as India, are tempted to fill in the vacuum created by disengagement of super powers. Foreign intervention, the editorial says, was the root-cause of Afghan conflict and if an opportunity has arisen that the Afghan people could be left alone without any distant god-fathers it should be wholeheartedly welcomed. (NTN)
*    Anwari, President of Kabul Provincial Council of HIA (Mohseni) has said the Soviet abortive coup has greatly affected the political, military and economic situation of the Kabul regime. He said that even high-ranking authorities were talking of the downfall of the communist regime, and by using the opportunity the mujaheddin leaders should work out a joint political and military strategy. (VOADS)
*   A new political movement under the name of 'Unity, Freedom and Democracy* has recently been launched in Kabul. The movement has issued a list containing 19 articles in which the communists have been blamed for the war in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
                 19
*   The Kabul regime announced 18 September the restoration of the
309
VOL. 4 NO.4
JbLY-SEPTEMBER. 1991       R1GIIAN J[HA0
 citizenship of former King Zaher Shah. " It also applies to all members of the King's family. The foreign missions have been instructed to issue them with passports. (PT)
 * The Iranian Foreign Minister, Ali Akbar Vallayati, in a meeting in Tehran with the visiting Soviet envoy, Primakov, 17 September welcomed the Soviet decision to cut arms supply to Afghanistan and praised the role played by Gorbachev for Soviet-Iran cordial relations. He said the continued positive efforts for the solution of the Afghan problem would ultimately isolate all those who oppose the plan. (JG)
 * Addressing a gathering of the Afghan refugees at a village near Katcha Ghari in the outskirts of Peshawar 18 September, the Deputy High Commissioner of UNHCR, Douglas Stafford, said the US-Soviet accord on negative symmetry' would pave the way for the establishment of a government in Afghanistan in line with the wishes of the Afghan people. About refugee problems he said the refugees' needs have increased throughout the world after the Gulf war which.has also affected the allocation of aid for Afghan refugees. (MLM)
 * The Kabul regime has -ordered its officials to loot local farmers' wheat harvests around the Kabul city at night time due to shortage of foodstuff, says a MIDIA report. In an interview with MIDIA some owners of harvest and farmers said, they complained several times to the responsible authorities but nobody listened to them. (PT) *
 *  A Kabul regime jet-fighter was shot down by the Afghan mujaheddin while it was bombarding their positions in Pagh-man, Kabul, 18 September and its pilot was also killed while trying to parachute. In clashes in Kandahar and
 other parts of the country 14-i6
 September, the mujaheddin destroyed two tanks and inflicted heavy human and material losses on the regime forces. In Helmand Province the mujaheddin destroyed one tank and killed five militiamen 15 September. They also killed 10 regime personnel and injured a number of others in Gohar province the same day. (PT) •
 * The Pakistan Times has in its
 editorial 19 September expressed the hope that the US and USSR will faithfully implement their accord on negative symmetry and desist from accelerating the supply of arms to allow either side to pile them up. However, it would have been 'more helpful if such an accord had taken into consideration all other relevant issues such as the transitional mechanism, the date of ceasefire and the return of the refugees. The mechanism of an intra-Afghan dialogue, the editorial says, should now be worked out and set in motion. Now that a clear indication has come that Najib has decided to stay out of such talks, the initiation of such talks has become all the more easier. The negative symmetry announced by the super powers has given an impetus to the process of a political settlement of the Afghan issue. With foreign intervention in their affairs coming to a total halt, the people of Afghanistan can decide their future by themselves. All that "outsiders" can do is to help the intra-Afghan talks get underway. There is no reason why they should not move towards national reconciliation and bring durable peace to their country,. (PT)
 * In its comments on US-Soviet accord on Afghanistan the daily Jang says in its editorial 19 September that the accord will only further the US-Soviet cohspir^cy of not allowing the Afghans to form a government of their . own choice in their country and the accord
310
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
is not going to be helpful in the solution of the Afghan problem. Under the US-Soviet accord the supply of arms by the super powers to their respective Afghan sides will come to an end by the end of the year. But according to informed sources, they intend to strengthen the Najibullah regime by supplying it with all the sophisticated weapons, otherwise, they could have stopped the arms supply simultaneously with the signing of the accord. It is a settled fact, the editorial says, that both the super powers are opposed to the establishment of a mujaheddin government in Afghanistan. Both of them are trying to induct Zaher Shah or impose some secular government on the Afghans. The US has already undertaken to provide under the name of reconstruction to Najibullah an aid package amounting to three billion dollars.
(JG)
*  The new movement entitled 'Unity Freedom and Democracy' has announced in Kabul that it will endeavor to force Najib to resign. Mujaheddin sourcs in Peshawar say that the founders of the new movement had been actively engaged in the communist government in Kabul for the last 13 years and for this reason could not be acceptable to the mujaheddin. Mohammad Younus Qanooni,. responsible for political affairs of the Commanders' Council, termed the establishment of the new movement as a conspiracy adding "it is yet another Kabul regime attempt for its survival." (BBCFS)
                  20
*  The Kabul regime President Najibullah has issued a decree enabling former King Zaher Shah to return to Afghanistan and take part in its political and economic affairs. He ordered his Foreign Ministry to issue passports to *Zaher Shah and his family members. This step, the decree said,
 was' necessary for the restoration of peace and tranquillity in the country. A Kabul regime spokesman said, with the issuance of the decree, one more obstacle in the solution of the Afghan conflict has been removed. (MLM)
 * A Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman said in Moscow 19 September that the Soviet Union has invited leaders of the Afghan resistance to Moscow for talks concerning Soviet POWs and the general Afghan situation. Meanwhile, a Soviet Embassy spokesman in Islamabad, Vladimir Ivanov, said the Soviet Union had extended an invitation to AIG President, Sebghatullah • Mujaddedi, which has been accepted by the latter. (PT)
 * Akram Zaki, Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, has said in an interview with BBC that the mujaheddin are trying to form a delegation which will proceed to Moscow during the next few weeks at the invitation of the Soviet government to take advantage of the prevailing realities emerging after the recent changes in the Soviet Union. He said Pakistan desires that both the US and the Soviet Union sincerely implement their decision to halt arms supplies to the warring sides in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, according to VOA, the Kabul regime President Najibullah, has refuted that he has agreed to keep himself aside from any talks for the solution of the Afghan problem. The Kabul regime has, however, welcomed reports that Afghan mujaheddin are attempting to assemble a delegation to go to Moscow to discuss a possible solution. (PT)
 * The Afghan opposition has refused to conduct talks on the future of the country with any representative of the Kabul authority. According to Reuter leader of the Islamic Party of Afghanistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said near Peshawar that the Kabul authority
311
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
mim
 in Afghanistan was        made  up   of
 communists responsible for the loss of over     a million    people in   the
 13-year-old war. (MLM)
 * The Kabul regime Foreign Minister,
 Abdul Wakil, has said that an effective mechanism   should be   chalked out   to
 supervise  the implementation  of   the
 US-Soviet accord to stop arms supplies to warring parties in Afghanistan. He expressed concern that Pakistan and Saudi Arabia have still not joined the agreement. He also said that the Kabul regime would not try to seek arms from other sources because it has already large piles of arms. (MLM)
 * In an interview with BBC the AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has urged senior Pakistani officials to stop the activities of the Afghan mujaheddin who have launched an attack on another important Afghan city of Gardaiz. He said some hidden hands are tempting mujaheddin groups towards a military solution. The BBC said that the mujaheddin are shelling Gardaiz with long range artillery. The mujaheddin, it said, are planning for a four-dimensional military movement before the winter approaches. (NTN)
 * Addressing the Afghan refugee elders at Hawai refugee tentage village in the outskirts of Akora Khattak 19 September Douglas Stafford, the UN Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees, said that UNHCR will continue to help the Afghan refuges till the present situation was over in Afghanistan. (PT) *
 * In an exclusive interview with ANA in Peshawar 19 September concerning the Soviet offer for talks on Afghanistan, the chief of HIA, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, said that the talks between the two parties of the Afghan problem i.e. the mujaheddin and the Russians should be held between
 authoritative delegations of the two sides in a third country and the agenda of the talks should be specific. He said it is against Afghan traditions and the jehad struggle of Afghans to accept the invitation of the enemy on its own soil. The mujaheddin, he said, should demand of the Russians to declare as null and void all the pacts concluded between the Soviet Union and the puppet regime during the past 13 years and pay war reparations for being the aggressor. He also urged the jehad leadership not to give any opportunity to those who’ wanted to bargain on the Afghan jehad. He said the true mujaheddin are those who have not been influenced by Iran or Washington. He said that the Iranian regime through its interference created divisions in the ranks of the mujaheddin. (PT)
 *  The Commanders'Council reports from Jauzjan that the mujaheddin attacked the Sar-e-Pul security posts under the command of Akhtar Mohammad 15 September as a result of which the commander of the militia force and 10 of his men surrendered to the mujaheddin. They also injured 15 militiamen, destroyed two tanks and captured one post. (VOAPS)
 *  According to UN estimates only
 100,000. Afghan refugees out of a total over one million (stet) have returned home from Pakistan eversince 1989. The refugees are now under greater pressure as the supply of relief wheat for the current year has been reduced by 25% and for many countries the Afghan refugees have fallen into oblivion. (BBCFS)
 * Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
 HIA, says that Najib has been imposed
 upon our nation by the Russian tanks,
                      # # « has murdered 1.5 million Afghans and
 has ruined the country. He can, by no
      O
 means, be regarded as a party to the
312
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
Afghan conflict. He can only play one role- th^t of handing-over the power to the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
                  21
*  The Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Islamabad has described, 20 September as regrettable, devoid of truth and contrary to realities the statement of Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami, published in the daily Frontier Post 13 September saying that Saudi Arabia is supporting the Najibullah regime in Kabul. Such a statement, coming from a known personality, is not in the interest of Afghanistan. Rather it causes a sharp division and' split in the ranks of the Muslims at a time when the Afghan jehad is passing through a critical stage, the Embassy said. (PT)
*  The Kabul regime Generals and other military officers, having lost their morale against the mujaheddin, are trying to quit their jobs on plea of sickness and other causes, reports MIDIA. (PT)
*  Talking to MIDIA correspondent on telephone Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HIA, has opposed the sending of an Afghan mujaheddin delegation to USSR for discussion on Afghanistan saying that it would mean acceptance of all the accords numbering more than 409 signed between Russia and its stooges in Kabul in the past based on military, political, culture and social assignments. He further said if the Russians wanted to talk with the mujaheddin to solve the Afghan issue, the best way was to choose a third country for discussions. Commander Mawlaivi Jalaluddin Haqqani has also rejected mujaheddin's visit to Russia.. (PT) *
 * Two officers and three militiamen
 were killed and several others injured when the mujaheddin launched offensives over the Kabul regime's posts in Khwaja Sahib area, Laghman, 16 September. The mujaheddin also set ablaze two tanks and three jeeps during the operation killing another four soldiers and militiamen. (PT)
 * The daily Jang in its editorial 21 September advised the Afghan mujaheddin not to reject the Soviet offer for an. Afghan solution through a dialogue. All the Afghan groups, the editorial says, should participate in the dialogue. Heavy responsibility devolves on the mujaheddin groups with regard to the Soviet offer because their success in a peaceful solution Of the problem will also be a major victory for them after having already compelled the Soviet troops to withdraw from Afghanistan. (JG)
 '    spokesman of the former Afghan
 King Zaher Shah said in Rome 20 September that the former King was ready to serve his homeland. (NTN)
 * Thirteen regime personnel, including some officers, were killed and a number of them were injured when the muja-aheddin opened heavy artillery fire on the besieged Gardaiz garrison, Paktia, 19 September. Four regime military trucks and a BM-Rocket installation were also destroyed. Simultaneous mujaheddin operations were launched on Kabul-Gardaiz Highway from Tera KandauF to Gardaiz city 18 September killing 15 regime personnel and injuring some others. (NTN)
 * Najibullah, the Kabul regime leader, has said the US and its allies are no longer confronting communism and 3 they are now checking the spread of Islamic fundamentalism. An Islamic alliance of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan would be a danger not only to the US but also to Israel, China, Turkey and the Soviet Union. (VOAPS)
313
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
 * General Rahmatullah Safi,upon return from Gardaiz, said if the operation on Gardaiz is implemented as planned, there was no reason it should not fall to the mujaheddin. He said that situation was in the mujaheddin favor and announcements were made asking the civilians and the Najib troops to join the mujaheddin ranks prior to the attack. (BBCPS)
                  22
 * In an interview with veteran journalists, the Kabul regime President Na-jibullah has said that the negative symmetry between the US and the Soviet Union was a beginning of peace process and the mujaheddin factions refusing to join the process would see they have lagged behind and isolated from the rest of the nation. Asked whether he will be ready to resign in the interest of peace process, he said it would not be fair in view of the fast wave of democracy the world over that any individual is kewpt away from the election process. Najibullah said there is no more threat to the US and its allies from communism but now they will have to worry about the spreading of Islamic fundamentalism. He further said if the Soviet Union invites the mujaheddin leaders to visit Moscow then the US should also invite Kabul regime officials to visit Washington. (MLM)
 * As a result of follow-up of US-Soviet accord on Afghanistan, a 4-member Afghan mujaheddin delegation comprising Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and a deputy of Burhanuddin Rabbani, is preparing to leave for Washington. The Peshawar-based Afghan sources said that the visit despite all the backing by the two super powers may not yield the desired result because of
 1
 the categorical "no" to the efforts by the other three powerful groups.
 Meanwhile, Prof. Rabbani has said that the presence of all representatives of jehad parties was necessary to take part in such negotiations. (MLM)
 *     In an exclusive interview to Pakistan TV in Tehran recently and released in Islamabad 21 September” the President of Iran, Hashemi Rafsanjani, has said that the Afghanistan issue should be solved "once for all", to enable the Afghan refugees to return to their homeland with honor and dignity. He said the recent tripartite talks and agreements between Pakistan, Iran and Afghan mujaheddin would certainly help achieve the formation of a legitimate government in Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *   Presiding over a reception on the occasion of the National Day of Saudi Arabia in Islamabad 21 September the Federal Minister, Ejazul Haq, said that outstanding issues like Afghanistan, Kashmir and Palestine could only be solved if the Muslims of the world took a united stand on these issues. Saudi Arabia, he said, can play a vital role in an early solution of the Afghanistan problem. (MLM)
 *   In an interview to The Nation in Peshawar 21 September Sayyed Ishaq Gailani, Chief of the Afghan Relief Foundation, said that Soviet invitation to the mujaheddin leaders was a positive step towards early settlement of the Afghan problem. He proposed formatio of a transitional government, in Afghanistan before holding general polls there. Such a government, he said, would comprise eminent Afghan commanders, tribal chieftains, ulama, intellectuals and Europe-based Afghan bureaucrats which would rule the country for a fixed period. He welcomed Najibullah's decision of restoring citizenship to ex-King Zaher Shah and his relatives and said that through this step he had recognizedithe role of
314
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
mmm
 the aged King. (NTNO
 *  In an interview broadcast by the BBC the AIG leader Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said the mujaheddin are considering the. composition of their delegation to visit Moscow at the Soviet invitation. Five or six mujaheddin parties including Iran-based HWIA are expected to form the delegation. Another Afghan leader Younus Khales expressed concern that as a result of such talks, resolutions agreed between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan will become legal. Leader of mujaheddin commanders' Shoorar Jalaluddin Haqqani, said that the Afghans should not go to Moscow as the Soviet Union was responsible for all the miseries of the Afghans. (NTN)'
 *  The Nation says in its editorial 22 September Moscow’s final disengagement from the Afghan tangle has not turned out to be as much of a retreat as the dramatic developments in the Soviet Union had suggested. The Soviets have taken care that they do not leave their former protege in Kabul high and dry and the arms supply cut off accord will become operative from January next, giving the Kabul regime more than four months to set its house in order. Meanwhile, they have also renewed their diplomatic efforts -}for a raproachment between the warring Afghan parties bringing home the message that they would like to broker a peace deal before they quitted. Invitation to mujaheddin leader^ to visit Moscow is a clear indication that the Soviet Union has the credentials to act as an effective mediator. (NTNO
 *   The Kabul regime airforce has bombarded the mujaheddin positions around Gardaiz, Paktia, during the last few days. The mujaheddin also have shot down two bomber planes and captured their pilots. (BBCDS)
 * Mohammad Zaher, the former Afghan King, has rejected Najibullah's offer to return to Kabul for taking part in the solution of the Afghan problem. The King's speaker said, that Najib or his other Russian puppet predecessors have not been recognized as legal rulers of Afghanistan. (BBCFS).'
               23
 * While efforts are being exerted for finding a solution the Afghanistan problem, tension is being observed within the Watan Party. The party in addition to having two wings of Parcham and Khalq, is said to have split into several other factions. One group is reported to be comprised of military officers who are advocating hard line. The other faction is supporters of Najib and the third group is the social democrats who are seeking a new ideology and have relinquished their believe in communism or Soviet way of life. (BBPS)
 ~ Mohammad Nasir, a staff member of Danish organization "DACCAR" says the organization will continue its work for reconstruction and rehabilitation tasks in Afghanistan and right now in the Ku-nar province, in addition to installing water-pumps, DACCAR has embarked on road construction, water supply and agricultural projects. (BBPS)
               24
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have destroyed 14 Kabul regime posts killing 90 soldiers and officers and capturing heavy and light weapons in two different offensives in Paghman district of Kabul 12 and 17 September. Four mujaheddin were also killed artd * six others injured in the operations. The mujaheddin also inflicted heavy
315
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991        HlflUflHtltHflO             VOL. 4 NO.4
losses ' to the Kabul regime in their attacks on security post in Zabul 18» September. And in an ambush in the Bala Blouk district, Farah, they captured eight regime personnel alongwith their weapons. (Date not given ) (PT)
*  The Deputy Chief HEIA (Mansoor), Mawlawi Mohammad Amin Ferotan and his body-guardj were injured in Peshawar 22 September when an unknown person opened fife on them. They were both immediately rushed to the hospital and are stated to be out of danger. (MLM)
*  A message received in Islamabad says that Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki and Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia, Prince Saud-al-Faisal, during their consultations in Jeddaji 23 September* reviewed- the recent development in Afghanistan particularly the negative symmetry announced by the US and the Soviet Union. (PT)
" The Commanders Council in Quetta has expressed anxiety about the ban of arm to the Afghan ijiujaheddin. However, commanders who are not members of the Council have expressed their pleasure over the ban. The refugees too have expressed content about the ban but have complained that for the last three months their food rations have been cut and pathetic conditions prevailed in their camps. (VOADS)
" Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, has left for New York to participate in. the 46th general session of the United Nations General Assembly. (RA)
- Dr. Robenstein the author of a book on "Soviet policy towards Iran, Turkey and Afghanistan" has described the relations of the Soviet republics of Central jysia with Afghanistan in these terms:   These republics will remain
major buyers of the Afghan natural gas
 and Afghanistan will benefit from having an open border with these republics. (VOADS)
                 25
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin in their meeting (place not given) 24 September have again announced general amnesty for the Kabul regime military, police, militia forces and other officebearers of different organizations and persons concerned and asked them to surrender to the nearest headquarters of the mujaheddin immediately, reports MIDIA. The mujaheddin are also learnt to have been instructed to protect the life, property and the, families of those defecting to them. (NTN)
 *  In their offensive against the Kabul regime posts of Faizabad, Joazjan, 19 September, several soldiers and militiamen were killed and 18 officers and 200 soldiers and militiamen as well as several posts including a military unit were captured by, the mujaheddin. Six hundred different types of heavy and light weapons^ two ammunition depots and logistic materials were, also captured by them. Also during their operations 19-20 September, several regime officers, soldiers and militiamen were killed and several others injured' and 11 posts and several vehicles were destroyed and a large;-quantity of weapons and ammunition were gaptured in various parts of Paghman, Kabul. (NTN)
 *  In an interview with VOA the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has said that a delegation representing all the mujaheddin groups will reach New York this week to lobby foi the Afghan cause where Afghan issue would pome up for debate in the current session 'Of the UN General Assembly. Tbg; delegation, he said, would meet wbrl^d leaders in the UN headquarters "and try to seek their support. He said he would also meet ;^the UN
316
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991         HfiMNJHlAfl                VOL. 4 NO.4
  Secretary. General, Perez de Cuellar, and exchange views with him on his five-point peace formula for Afghanistan.; After the New York visit, Sebghat-’ ullah Mujaddedi said, a high level delegation of mujaheddin will visit Moscow. (PT)
  * The Kabhl regime military commanders at Gardaiz Front have offered ceasefire whereas the mujaheddin have asked the regime troops to surrender and offered them general amnesty. (PT)
  * About 2,000 Afghan students staged a demonstration in front of the Iranian Consulate in Peshawar 24 September to express their concern over the attitude of the Iranian authorities and the threat to *fche Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, (Sulbuddin Hekmatyar. (PT)
  * Talking to journalists at Foreign Office in, Islamabad 24 September the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddique Khan Kanju, said that Pakistan is making relentless efforts' to secure a concensus resolution to the settlement Of Afghanistan problem which should ensure the establishment of an elected government in Kabul. He said Pakistan wanted implementation of peace!^package in toto and desired there was no discrimination on the ban of arms supply to the concerned parties. (PT) . **
  ** Rahmatullah Murtazavi, spokesmen of • HWIA, has^ said in a meeting with him, / the Soviet Ambassador in Tehran, condemned the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan paying only a. small group of hated popple made, this decision. • Murtazavi said he told the ambassador ;
               ent Kabul regime too was a /hated, puppet and aggressive regime X^hieh dqee. not deserve support. The ; Ambassador has promised Murtazavi that | Moscow wi&l gradually refrain from all | kinds of Support for the Kabul regime, f (VOADS)
 * A number of students .and teachers supporting Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, in a demonstration in Peshawar demanded the trial of those who run the Iranian newspaper Kayhan International which has called Hekmatyar more dangerous than the Kabul regime urging his assassination. (VOADS)
                 26
 * Speaking to members of Parliament and diplomats in Kabul 25 September the regime President Najibullah proposed a transitional government of national unity, based on his present coalition regime, representatives of mujaheddin based in Pakistan, and Iran, internal mujaheddin commanders, exiles living abroad and associates of the former King Zaher Shah, to rewrite the constitution and devise new electoral laws. He said the recent US-Soviet agreement had given a new impetus to efforts for a political solution and had created a "more favorable climate for intra-Afghan dialogue than ever before". (PT)
 * Thirteen Kabul regime militiameh and soldiers were killed and several others injured and one tank set on fire when the mujaheddin launched an operation over the regime forces in Dasht-e-Pacha Khali, Laghman,19 September. A militia commander and 15 militiamen joined the mujaheddin. (PT)
 *   A mujaheddin commander, Mawlawi Shaftis-ur-Rahman, addressing a press conference in the offices of Commanders' Shoora,has said (date and place not given) that both Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan (Hekmatyar) and JIA have resolved to settle their disputes in 13 provinces of Afghanistan and joined hands against the puppet regime of Kabul. He said the Supervisory Council in the north would be a part of the future Islamic government in Afghanistan. -(PT)
317
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
111
VOL- 4 NO.4
 '* A spokesman of JIA said in Islamabad 25 September that the Chief of the Jamiatf Burhanuddin Rabbani, is not going to the US or the Soviet Union as reported by a section of the press. The spokesman said that without the participation of HIA (Hekmatyar) HIA (Khales), JIA and IIA the dialogue would be meaningless, (pt)
                     #
 *  At a meeting of the leadership and representatives of all the seven major political parties in Islamabad 24 September, the mujaheddin's three major parties, HIA (Hekmatyar), HIA (Khales)/ and IIA (Sayyaf) opposed the sending of mujaheddin delegation to New York for attending the UN General Assembly session, reports ANA. The parties took strong exception to UN Secretary
 General Perez de Cuellar's decision for
                                       \ '
 allocating the Afghanistan seat to the Kabul regime delegates. The organizations at the meeting demanded that the regime delegate should be ousted from the UN session and the Afghanistan seat should be allocated to the mujaheddin and a joint agenda should be approved prior to the sending of mujaheddin delegation to the UN General Assembly. (MLM)
 *  The ANP NWFP Minister, Bashir Ahmed Bilour, -said in an interview in Peshawar 25 September that the US-Soviet accord on the Afghan issue and the consequent ban of arms supplies to the warring factions was a step in the right direction and will help solve the dispute. (MLM)
 - The AIG press office in a statement has urged Saudi Arabia to participate in the future talks now being held between the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran on finding a solution to the' Afghanistan problem. The statesmen add Saudi Arabia has defended the Afghan •mujaheddin and refugees through-o.ut the jehad and has offered substantial help ■to the Afghan jehad and therefore it ,
 is being asked to take part in the negotiations. (VOAPS)
 * Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, has told newsmen in New York the former King of Afghanistan has been asked several times to participate in the process of restoring peace in Afghanistan. He added, for efhding the war, talks should be held on all subjects, including the resignation of Najibullah. (BBCPS)
                 27
 * Addressing a press conference at UN headquarters 25 September, the Kabul regime Prime Minister, Fazl-ul-Haq Khaliqyar, said that the regime President Najibullah was ready to talk about his leaving the office to facilitate a settlement of the Afghanistan issue. (PT)
 * The leader of the visiting French delegation, Jacques. Habert, on the occasion of his Visit to Na'ser Bagh Afghan refugee camp near Peshawar 26 September, called upon the world donor agencies to continue their assistance to the Afghan refugees on humanitarian grounds till their return ^ to their homeland with honor and dignity. He said that h^ would recommend to his government to continue all possible assistance to Afghan refugees till their return to Afghanistan. (PT)
 * The Kabul regime President Najibullah has told The Independent that bringing back the former King Zaher
.Shah did not mean a restoration of the Afghan monarchy, but he would rathet act as a figurehead to guide the country through a ceasefire, followed by a transition period leading to UN-sponsored elections. (NWT)
 * Criticising the recent speech in Parliament by the Kabul regime President Najibullah, the AIG President
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
VOL. 4 NO.4
Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,has said he did not agree with .the contention of Najibullah that there were two factions among the mujaheddin and that one was moderate and the other was fundamentalist. He described the speech as yet another attempt to create differences among the mujaheddin. (NTN)
*  In an exclusive interview to PPA in New York, the Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs, • Akram Zaki, has said the momentum of developments in Afghanistan was growing and a political settlement did not seem to be far now. He said there were clear signs that Najibullah regime was On its way out and the transition mechanism was leading to the process of consultation with the Afghan people, (NTN)
*  India has agreed to send 1,500 tons of tea to the Kazakistan republic of the Soviet Union and Kazakistan will in return supply 50,000 tons of wheat to the Kabul regime. (RA)
*  The following is the reaction of a number of mujaheddin leaders vis a vis a statesment of the President of Kabul regime in regards to the formation of a government of National unity:
     Sebghatullah Mujaddedi:  Najib has
time an again said that he was ready to handover power to the mujaheddin but he has failed to honor his promise.
     Mohammad Younus Khales:      Najib
will relinquish power in two ways: Under the direction of the Russians and through the force of gun.
     Mohammad Younus Qanooni (representative of the Supervisory Council and official of the Commander Council): as long .as .regime is illegal, its proposals too will remain illegal.
(VOADS)
                   28
 * An Afghan mujaheddin delegation led by the leader of NIFA, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, is leaving Islamabad for New
 York 29 September to participate in the UN General Assembly session and discuss Afghan problem and latest development in the country with world leaders. The delegation comprises Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi,(HEIA), Wakil Shahbaz, Engineer Abdur Rahim and Engineer Ishan Jan (JIA). Siddiq . Saljoqi (NIFA), Karzai (NLFA), Balaghi HWIA, Javid HIA (Mohseni) and Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad. (PT)
 * General Aslam Beg, the former Chief of Staff of the Pakistan armed forces, in an interview with the BBC has said Pakistan does not have sufficient military resources to help the Afghans and Pakistan does not contemplate a military solution for the Afghan issue and we have told the Afghan mujaheddin leaders to seek a political solution.
 (BBCFS)         *»
                 29
 « Talking to newsmen in Peshawar the Afghan Consu*l, Abdul Qayoom, has suggested to the mujaheddin leaders to hold direct talks with Kabul regime President Najibullah to ensure an early settlement of the Afghan problem and also to help in the formation of a national transitional government for holding general elections in Afghanistan. He said if Sebghatullah' Mujaddedi wanted to become President of Afghanistan, he ought to accept the proposal and contest general polls. He said the mujaheddin leaders' talks with Najibullah could bring positive results instead of their talks with US and Soviet leaders. He accused Pakistan of supplying sophisticated weapons to Afghan resistance groups. (NTN)
    In an interview with the press the Provincial Minister, Bashir Ahmed Bilour said in Peshawar that it was Pakistan earnest desire that the Afghan, issue should be settled honorably so, that the refugees could return to their
319
VOL. 4 NO.4
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1991
country. He said that his party wanted that the amount being spent on arms and ammunitions should be spent on the well being of the poors. (NTN)
*  Briefing newsmen after the meeting of the Afghan mujaheddin leaders with the Prime Minister of Pakistan in Lahore 28 September, Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan,said it was agreed that a delegation representing mujaheddin and led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi will be in New York 29 September in connection with UN General Assembly session and meet the Foreign Ministers gathered there and in particular the Soviet Foreign Minister. It was also agreed, he said, that another delegation would proceed to Moscow at a date to be fixed later. (PTj
*  In their meeting at the UN, Iranian Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati and Pakistan's Minister of State for iForeign Affairs, Mohammad Siddique Kanju, noted that no representative segment of the Afghan population was prepared to accept Najibullah at the negotiating table and agreed that no further progress was possible while he stayed in office. (PT) *
 *  The Chief of Afghanistan Central Bank says that separate contracts have been reached with European countries and Central Asian Republics to cope with the situation arising from reduction in food and fuel supplies to Kabul by the Soviet Union after the abortive coup. Under an agreement oil has already been transported to the Afghan border. (MLM)
 * A number of Arab help organizations in Peshawar say that the government of Pakistan had instructed them in a let-
 ter six weeks ago that foreign workers were not allowed to go to mujaheddin controlled areas in Afghanistan from Pakistan. The letter, however, did not mention organizations working under the United Nations. (VOAPS)
 * According to radio Kabul the Kabul city was hit by six rockets killing three persons and injuring two. (VOADS)
 - Nawaz Sharif,the Prime Minister of Pakistan, in a meeting with mujaheddin leaders has said, if the mujaheddin left aside their pity differences, peace will be restored in Afghanistan. He said the government of Pakistan supports the United Nations peace plan. The plan calls for inter-Afghan talks for the formation of an interim government and holding of elections. (VOADS)
                 30
            ,1
    Observers reports from Kabul that the return of former Afghan Monarch Zahir Shah seemed eminent. Although he has not rendered significant service in the past, now his influence is on the increase. Najib has told the Kabul Parliament that he would look upon Zahir Shah as a father and will hold council with him as a son. (BBCPS)
      Commander Shah Wali, in charge of government security posts in Qargha near Kabul, says his job was to preserve the Kabul "seuirty belt"- 63 kilometers long and 20 meters wide- and raids on mujaheddin convoys. He said after, the signing of the arms ban accord between the U.S. and USSR, 150 rockets have been fired on Kabul city. (VOAPS)