JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
two military trucks were demolished. .In another battle in Katawaz,Paktika province, a tank of the Soviet forces was blasted and its three crewmen killed. An enemy supply vehicle also fell to the mujaheddin (RADIO PAKISTAN KARACHI).
 50. The report, prepared by the UN Special Rapporteur, Professor Ermacora about the human rights violations in Afghanistan for submission to the UN, has accused the Kabul regime directly and the Soviet Union indirectly of significant and continued violations of human rights. The report cites specific evidences that show the use of poisonous gas, holding hostages, revengeful activities without proportion, use of booby trap bombs and ruthless treatment to prisoners have occurred. The report further stated that every hour lost in finding a political solution in the Afghanistan issue is harmful to the people of that country .... The representative of the Kabul government accused Prof. Ermacora of harbouring political interests against Afghanistan. ... It.is not the first time that the United Nations General Assembly is bringing under study the human rights violations in Afghanistan since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan (TOADS).
 51. In an attack ?5 November on a Soviet fuel convoy on Salang Highway, 16 fuel tankers were demolished by the mujaheddin and 15 passengers of a bus were killed when it fell victim to the firing between the mujaheddin and the Soviet-Kabul troops. The mujaheddin also attacked a supply convoy on Salang Highway eliminating 20 trucks. In another report it has been said that two Kabul regime military helicopters were 3hot down 24 November by the mujaheddin near Khost which is under the control of the Kabul regime. As a result six crewmen were killed. Kandahar city is the scene of fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and the Soviet-Kabul troops and the mujaheddin now control some parts of the city.
 521^  Eabrak Karmal attended the session'of the Politburo of the Central Commit-
 tee of the PDPA and emphasized an improvement in the standard of supplies and the boosting of military capabilities of the Kabul regime armed forces (RA).
 53. In his fresh report submitted to the UN Human Rights Comnission, the UN Special Rapporteur, Felix Ermacora has said it is a dispute which has so far caused about one million casualties to the Afghans and attacks have also caused aftershocks to survivors. About four million Afghans have migrated to the other side of the border from their own places. Such an embarrasing state of affairs
4
5
(VOADS). .
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
 has engulfed one third of the whole population of the country. Another 1.5 million to two million Afghans whose farms and villages have beer, eliminated have now engulfed the cities. One third of such people comprise wcnen and children.
 From six thousand to eight thousand Afghans migrate from their country every month. To disturb and cause serious upset to the way of life of the Afghan people is the strategy of the Soviet Union. At' times when the Soviets are not in a position to attack the Afghanistan resistance forces, they ruthlessly resort to attacking the civil population in the rural areas. During cne week of March the aggressors killed about 1,000 civilians in about 12 vicinities of Laghman province. During the six-year war, the Soviets destroyed peace and security of the people of Afghanistan but they could not annihilate the resistance. With the characteristic of tolerating great hardships, the people of Afghanistan proved themselves the diehard defendants of their vital right ------ the right of free-
 dom and self-determination without the intervention of any other country.(VOADS).
 54.    In an attack on the Soviet-Kabul troops east of Faryab Province near Soviet borders, the Afghan mujaheddin killed 11 Soviet - Kabul troops and captured 34 others. It has been reported that seven Soviet-Kabul troops alongwith a Soviet adviser were killed 12 November by the mujaheddin in Rustak, Takhar province
                                                              (7SMERAN RADIO).
                                                                  7
 55.    The IN General Assembly Committee on Violations of Hunar. Rights in Afghanistan has issued a strongly worded resolution supported by the majority of members. In the resolution the Kabul regime officials have been accused of perpetrating atrocities with alien support against its opponents and of non-adherence to their human rights duties.(rECi*':;;.
                                                                    11
 56.    Addressing an association of research scholars and intellectuals, the adviser to the US President on National Security Affairs said throughout the US-Soviet summit conference in Geneva, Mikhail Gorbachev's tone remained selective and appeared to be logical and appropriate. But on 27 November he repeated Moscow's usual stand,that the reason for the continued Soviet presence in Afghanistan was the continued US support to the Afghanistan resistance. Gorbachev's behaviour with the US officials in Geneva gave an impression that solution of the Afghanistan dispute through talks Wa3 passible but his statements after the Geneva sunmxt conference were not encouraging (VOADS).
13
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985.
JEHAD AfifflmL
                                                                                                                 12
  5?. In the magazine, US News and World Report, Nicolas Danilov writes "after the passage of six years since the Kremlins of' :■ *4 its troops for invasion of Afghanistan, now the effects of this most costly war have shocked that country. The situation of this dispute has so far net been made public for the Soviet people... But propaganda campaign has begun at a time when there appear indications that the Soviet people have become tired of the casualties ensuing from the continued war. Some people estimate the Soviet casualties as 10,000 and the nun-ber of injured persons as 20,C00 ... Despite Soviet military force superiority against the mujaheddin who are not well equipped, the Soviet troops have been faced to deadlock ... According to the Soviet judicial officials, the Soviet troops engaged in war in Afghanistan are resorting to criminal activities like the use of narcotics ... Out of two million Soviet troops about four hundred thousand of them have been sent to Afghanistan in different turns. Despite the chances of promotion, the conscripted persons hesitate in going to Afghanistan.
  Put under the new rules, the Soviet officials initiate judicial trial of the persons who leave the military service ... Control over Kabul government is established and advisers are appointed in the Ministries and ever, then more than 1C,000 Afghans have been admitted in the Soviet Universities so as to make use of them in the process of Russianizing Afghanistan ... International pressure might prevent the Soviet Union from swallowing Afghanistan ... But the scope of propaganda war inside Russia indicates that Moscow does not intend to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. Rather it wants to convert Afghanistan into its subservient state which will comply with every directive from the Kremlin
                                                                   (VOAES).
  58.   The Afghanistan resistance sources said in their attack 2 December, the Afghan mujaheddin killed more than 200 Soviet troops in Panjsher (RADIO RIYAffl).
                                                           13
  59.   With the arrival of Soviet troops in Bamian area 11 November, the presence of Soviet troops was felt in Hazarajat ... The Soviet troops searched four villages for the recovery of arms. But when they found no sign of the presence of arms and ammunition in the region, they distributed sugar, tea and shoes among
  the people ... An eyewitness said the Afghan mujaheddin expressed reaction to the Soviet activities by launching a series of attacks which continued constantly for seven days. In their operations, the Afghan mujaheddin demolished six tanks and a helicopter gunship of the communist forces. According to one of the Afghan sol-
                                           14
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
    diers who has joined the mujaheddin, in the mujaheddin operation at least 25 Soviet-Kabul troops were killed. Inter reports ssy the Soviet-Kabul trcops left the region 27 November (EECFS).
    60.    A protocol on cooperation between the Kabul regime Supreme Council and the Soviet Supreme Court was signed in Kabul under which relations between the courts of Kabul regime and the Soviet Union in the field of judicial activities will be further promoted (RA).
                                                          15
    61.    On the US-Soviet summit Perez De Cuellar commented: "The Afghan dispute came under discussion at the summit ... I am not sure as to how their talks can have a bearing on the C-eneva talks. Presently we are bound tc wait for the next week, to see whether or not the Foreign Ministers of Pakistan and Afghanistan in their meeting with my envoy, put forward fresh proposals. In reply to a a.ues-tion on a report that the US has announced its readiness to guarantee the independence of Afghanistan provided thd Soviet Union withdraws its troops from that country, Cuellar said the report is correct: "In my view, it is a significant step.by the United States but the solution, of the Afghanistan problem yet needs more guarantees, not only the US guarantee." (EBCFS).
    62.  ' The US willingness to give a written commitment to finding a peaceful solution to the Afghanistan issue is a step designed to assess the balance of Soviet flexibility observed during the summit between the two superpowers. In this connection Whitehead said the Soviet leader has for the first time hinted that there is a possibility of a change in the Soviet traditional stand ... Some circles consider the US step as a bid to know the real objectives of the Soviet Union ... The advantage of this written commitment for the Soviet Union is that the United States as guarantor tc an overall compromise cannot continue its support to the mujaheddin to whom it has provided 290 million dollars this year. This large amount of US financial support has been a matter of concern to the Soviet Union and for this very reason the United States has agreed to give the written commitment to the Soviet Union. Whitehead said the Soviet Union should pay reparation for the casualties and the devastations that occur daily.(BBCFS).
                                                             17
   63.   Members of the Politburo of the PDPA attended the 13th plernin of the Democratic Youth Organisation. It was resolved that no sacrifice will be spared in the implementation of the decisions made by the 17th plenum of the central committee (RA).
                                            15
JEHAD ANNUAL
                                                    RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1965
      64.    In one of ita biggest claims during the' six-year war in Afghanistan, Radio Kabul has reported that more than 1,000 anti-government guerillas have been killed and a large number of others have been injured or arrested in recent operations in Kandahar and Helmand province,in the south of the country.The report has been refuted by Afghan Islamic publications. The BBC commentator says that making announcements about victories against the mujaheddin is one of the daily routine hobbies of Radio Kabul which is directly controlled by the government. The factual position is that fighting in Afghanistan continues in the unapproachable mountainous areas and that confirmation of the reports is extraordinarily difficult. Helmand province has been the scene of an extraordinary battle between a
                       f V.
      Soviet military unit and the mujaheddin which lasted for three weeks (BECFS).
      65.    Indirect talks on the Afghanistan issue continue in Geneva. The UN Secretary General's envoy, Diego Cordovez, is acting as mediator. Details will not
      be made public before the conclusion of talks (BBCFS).
      66.    Western diplomats in Pakistan say 65 Kabul regime troops were killed in a car bomb explosion at the airport. The jeep in which the bomb was placed exploded on 6 December at a time when the Kabul regime military units were waiting to be airlifted for fighting against the mujaheddin (TOADS).
                                          19
      67.    Geneva talks have been going on for the last three days but are being kept secret. Some observers, including a former Indian Ambassador in Washington, described the present silence prevailing on the talks as a positive indication and say that the willingness of the United States in giving a sufficient commitment for the solution of the Afghanistan issue shows headway towards a solution
      of the difficulties. Anyhow the main problem at the Geneva talks -- fixation
      of a definite date for the Soviet troops withdrawal from Afghanistan-yet remains with full intensity, Washington considers the current Geneva talks as a test of the Soviet sincerity. The fresh developments in the solution of the Afghanistan issue show that whatever the outcome of the indirect talks may be, the real key to the solution of the Afghanistan issue remains with the two superpowers
                                                                      (BBCFS).
                                         20
     68.     Foreign Minister Sahebzada Yaqub Khan has said that although much headway has not been made at the sixth round of proximity talks between Pakistan and Afghanistan, progress has been made in the overall political solution of the Afghanistan issue.
                                                16
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
     69.   The Canadian Foreign Minister visited the Afghan refugee camp in Nasir Bagh, Peshawar, and reaffirmed Ms Count) •> ,s assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin in their struggle.
     70.   The FRC Foreign Minister, Mr. Genscher, assured every kind of his country'3 assistance to the Afghan refugees (RPDS-KARACHI).
                                        21
     71.   Cordovez stated that because of a "difficult situation" between the delegations of Pakistan and Afghanistan, the proximity talks on Afghanistan issue !hac? been deferred (... The Afghanistan stand is that Pakistan should agree on direct talks with Afghanistan but Pakistan says that it would be ready for direct talks with Afghanistan when an agreement is reached on the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan ...) Most people think that Cordovez is in favour of direct talks and he is endeavouring to apprise Pakistan of its political value ... At the same time, opponents in the Pakistan National Assembly as well as outside it are raising voice in favour of direct talks with Afghanistan, Despite opposition that grows daily, the Pakistan government, in accordance with its policy of supporting the refugees has no other alternative than to stick to its stand;
     otherwise it will annoy its close friends - the OIC, US and China. But this
     stand brings close the peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem.
     72,    Eighty two Afghan mujaheddin were killed in three separate ambushes last month. The ambushes took place on 9, 10 and 11 December in three different places on a 60-km long road to the Pakistan border. In the first ambush 49 were martyred; in the second ambush 12 were martyred; while in the thifd ambush 21 persons were martyred. Commander Amin Wardak 3ays this road begins in Ghazni, the place of a concentration of mujaheddin forces, and leads to the southern parts of Afghanistan and the mountainous terrain ending at the Pakistan border.
     I
    It is the only road which links the northern and eastern provinces of Afghanistan with one another and leads upto the Pakistan border. (BBCFS).
                                      22
    73.    .The mujaheddin of Hezb-e-Islami (Khales) attacked the Kandahar airport on 7 December and 15 Russian pilots and two Kabul regime military officers were killed when the mujaheddin rockets hit the residential quarters of the pilots and the terminal. In the attack, a residential quarter of the pilots was totally dashed to ground while a helicopter and a MIG aircraft were also set on fire. Similarly the Soviet troops came near the mountainous bases of the mujaheddin on 16 December and were spontaneously subjected to rocket attacks by the mujaheddin. As a result.
                                             17
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
                                         NOVEMbER- DECEMBER 1985
  14 personnel with their vehicles were burnt and the mujaheddin suffered no losses. In another attack on 7 December by the Baluch front mujaheddin on Bund-e-Kamal Khan project, Nimroz, a number of Soviet-Kabul troops were killed while four mujaheddin were injured. Meanwhile, the office of Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami in Quetta says its mujaheddin attacked a post in Ma'aroof sub division, Kandahar on 6 December. As a result the militiamen of that post were forced to flee after suffering heavy casualties. In the battle, the mujaheddin seized two heavy arms but two mujaheddin were martyred and four others injured (TOADS).
  74.     In a recent article. The Pravda. writes that the Soviet-backed government in Kabul is still faced to extensive opposition... It also writes that the people of Afghanistan are not supporting the Saur revolution. And worse, the revolution does not even enjoy the support of the working class in that country ... But under the present circunstances this is not astonishing. If we recall the Afghan society is a semifeudal society having national and religious traditions...
  In this state of affairs, the Kabul regime needs to compromise ... The Kabul government should, at the earliest possible time, promote its political base among the masses in Afghanistan ... The BBC commentator concludes that presently the foremost objective of the Soviet Union is that a powerful government should be installed in Kabul so that ultimately the Soviet Union will be able to pullout its troops with confidence from Afghanistan (BBCFS).
                                  24
 75.    The Times (London), writes; In The Pravda. Soviet desire has bean expressed that positive talks should be held between the Kabul government and its opponents. The correspondent of The Times in Moscow writes it is the first time that the Soviet press has admitted that most of the Afghans are opposed to the communist occupation of their country ... The Soviet Union is now planning to accomplish political compromise in Afghanistan ... Meanwhile, a correspondent of The rinardion says Western analysts are of the view that the Soviet Union will withdraw its troops from Afghanistan only when it is sure that a durable and friendly government is established in Afghanistan (BBCFS).
                                  25
 76.    The Soviet-Kabul troops have tightaied security measures in Kabul city in order to counter mujaheddin attacks on the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and are searching the houses of residents of Shahr-e-Nau, Kabul. According to diplomatic reports, a number of explosions took place near the airport forcing government officials to close the airport road last week.
                                       18
JEHAD ANNUAL
 RADIOS NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 19g$.
 77. In a communique on the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistani the European Economic Community condemned the continued. Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, Twelve member countries of the community say continued human rights violations by the Soviet Union have made the miseries of the Afghan people unbearable.
 78* Diplomats say the Kabul government has enrolled more teachers in the military service. The Kabul regime forces besieged the city schools on 16 December and inducted the teachers into military service at bayonet point (VQADS).
 79* Hujjatul Islam Ghulam Hussain Arefi representative of Nasr organization! said in Teheran that 90$ of territory in Afghanistan was under mujaheddin control. Het alongwith 16V religious scholars of Afghanistan, has returned to Teheran after a seven month visit inside Afghanistan. He said his visit inside Afghanistan was aimed at further consolidation of unity among the mujaheddin ranks. Similarly, at a press conference in Teheran, Hujjatul Islam Hussaini said more than one million Afghan civilians have so far been martyred since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and six million others have been rendered refugees.
                                                         (TEHERAN RADIO).
                                                            26
 9Q. On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry said that in order to strengthen their occupation of Afghanistan, the Soviet troops continued to ruthlessly suppress the national resistance movement of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union should take effective measures for the earliest withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan
                                                                (BBCFS).
 91.    Hie leader of the Kabul regime, Babrak Karmal, received an Indian parliamentary delegation in Kabul. In the meeting, discussions were held on expansion of relations between the two countries (RA).
 92.    A source from the Afghan mujaheddin alliance described the resistance of the aggrieved people of Afghanistan against the Soviet aggressive forces as a spiritual trlunph and said that ever since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has been facing political defeats at the international arena.
 ,                                                         (TEHERAN RADIO).
 !
  93.    Hie United Islamic Revolutionary Front of Afghanistan announced the nomination of Ayatullah Muntazirl as the future leader of the Islamic revolution. It is considered as an Appropriate step to carry forward Islamic revolution •, in the world.
  8A. Tha Afghan mujaheddin, carried out severe attacks"al the centers of ccmmu-
                                             19
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
NOVEMBER - DECEMBER 1985
      niat troops In various places in the country on the eve of the anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, inflicting heavy losses in men and material on the communist forces* (TEHERAN RADIO). •
      85* On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the British Foreign Minister, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said 'Said fixation of a time- . table for the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan is the only key to ending the war in Afghanistan* (RADIO PARIS, FRANCE).
                                        27
      86.   Countries of the free world condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan oil its sixth anniversary. Britain says so long as the Soviet troops remain in Afghanistan, the miseries of the people of that country will continue. The Federal Republic of Germany has asked Kremlin to search out a political solution. China has said the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has brought about an unprecedented catastrophe to the people . of Afghanistan. 1
      87.   A mujaheddin doctor say3 the Afghan mujaheddin have eliminated a number of Soviet military positions in Herat city. The mujaheddin attacked the newly-built military cantonement in Herat province killing 60 SoViet-Kabul troops.
      88.   The Peopled Daily writes the Soviet Union has so far suffered 20,000 casualties since the occupation of Afghanistan. Quoting a spokesman for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, The Washington Times writes the Soviet aggression of.
      1979 has not only caused severe disasters for the people of Afghanistan, but has also caused a serious setback to peace and stability in the region and has posed a serious threat to China ... The said Daily writes that China has donated goods worth one hundred thousand dollars as aid to the Afghan refugees in Pakistan during the last year (VQADS).
      89.   A Radio Moscow commentator1 has claimed that a forged film about Afghanistan has been prepared in London aimed at twisting the situation in Afghanistan to malign the Soviet policy of helping Afghanistan. (HMDS).
                                        28
      90.    The freedom loving people of Afghanistan staged demonstrations today in India, Pakistan and Iran as token of protest on the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of. Afghanistan. Five thousand people gathered in the streets of New Delhi chanting anti-Soviet slogans, but the police checked their progress -before reaching the Soviet Bnbassy. Police dispersed antlr-Soviet demonstrations in Islamabad and a mmber of demonstrators were arrested. Thousands of people staged demonstrations in Teheran against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
                                                                  SO
JEHAD ANNUAL
RADIOS
                                             NOVEMBER- DECEMBER 1985
        91.   In hia statement on the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, President Reagan said the United States stands by the people of Afghanistan ... The Soviet Union has not been able to gain mss support or enjoy international popularity for the invasion. (TOADS).
      92.     The Afghanistan government has announced the change of a number of government officials. The new faces are not PDPA members. From the view point of the BBC commentator, the appointment of these persons is not considered as a significant change in the government. The most important change made in the government cadres is the appointment of Sayyed Amanuddin Amin as Deputy Prime Minister. The
        Mier new faces are mostly state advisers and do not enjoy executive powers •
                                                                     (BBCFS).
      93.     Or. the peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue, a conmentator of The Wall Street Journal writes that articles published in the publications of Soviet intellectuals indicate that while Moscow considers itself interested in a long term struggle, the troops are discharging their internationalistic duties with weak morale because soldiers are paid less under -the shadow of party discipline and the artificial bureaucratic system. It is the United States which is availing itself of the opportunity of exploiting the situation for its interests and with ill intentions. The commentator of another Soviet daily is of the view that the Afghanistan war has provided an opportunity to experiment with the working capabilities of the military and to carry out necessary improvements. Regarding human rights, The Washington Post writes that the term "violations of hi man rights" which is probably used for the Soviet Union, has become a routine idiom. The Soviet measures in Afghanistan have uprooted half of the Afghanistan population.
      One third of the people have been subjected to' discrimination. Death is swallowing the children like plague and five hundred thousand civilians have died due to unhygenic food. What the UN describes as "violations of human rights" has exceeded all limits and it has reached the stage of a massacre of the people in Afghanistan (TOADS).
                                         29
     94.    A large nunber of British newspapers have written coranents on the sixth anniversary of the Soviet military Invasion of Afghanistan. The Herald writes that by occupying the cities and rural areas of Afghanistan Russia has installed a wall betweoi the Soviet Muslims and the Iranian Islamic revolution ... The Soviet Union can suffer more casualties than the western, countries because the Soviet leaders are not concerned over public opinion and public worry on the increased casualties. The Daily Telegraph, writes that four million Afghans have left their hearth and abode and have migrated to Pakistan and Iran tdiile more
                                                                 21
  JEHAD ANNUAL                      RADIOS NOVEMBER— DECEMBER 198$.
  than two million people might have been rendered homeless inside Afghanistan too. The Soviet behaviour in Afghanistan is more than the violation of Inman rights and has converted into genocide ... Quoting The Pravda. The daily GnaT-Hian writes that the people have been ruthlessly massacred ... Continuation of war in Afghanistan is yet a part of the Soviet policy in Asia. The Guardi an reports that in an interview, Prime Minister Margret Thatcher has said she is of the view that the recent Reagan-Gorbachev sunmit can to seme extent, help in ending war in Afghanistan and the Soviet troops withdrawal from that country (BBCFS).
  95.  Mrs. Margret Thatcher has expressed the hope that a way would be sorted out to enable Afghanistan regain its independence. In a statement, the Britis Deputy Foreign Minister said first precondition for a neutral and non-alignbu Afghanistan is the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan (TOADS).
  95. Radio Moscow Commentator has condemned the US and Pakistan for intervent: 1
  in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. He was comrenting on statement of Rea holding Soviet Union responsible for tension in Afghanistan (RMD3).
                                                         30
 97.  On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, President Reagan in his address over radio praised the people of Afghanistan for their struggle against Soviet aggression. He said for the hunan freedom, we cannot and we should not allow suppression of Afghan nation. Reagan said, in his talks with Gorbachev he had made it clear that the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan is a cause of hindrance in the promotion of US-Soviet relations. He said in fact support to the Afghans is essential moral responsibility of the entire world. Of course, the struggle of the people of Afghanistan carries immense military end strategic importance. Therefore when we support the people of Afghanistan we become a partisan in their struggle for freedom (VOAD3).
 98.  In a commentary, James Patawe who has visited Afghanistan several times, writes that he fully understands that US and Soviet Union will not be able to impose their consensus about the settlement of Afghanistan issue. He says muja-heddins victory means the total and immediate withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and end of Karmal regime. The steps so far taken did not include any such Soviet decision. He writes by seeing mountainous bases and dimps and godowns of stuff which cannot be eliminated or captured, I can say that the mujaheddin can go on fitting so long as they want ... The main issue in this connection is the availability of funds for the purchase of arms and aonunition. Being Muslim elements, they can get funds from Muslim world. In this way war can be continued indefinitely with an acceptable balance of casualties from the two aides and Soviet Union cannot afford that while the mujaheddin do not want to compromise with the super powers. (70AD3).
                                    22