                                                                                                                         : , ■ v
                                                                                                                   y >/
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHAN JEHAD                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
, TO SOLVE AFGHAN ISSUE
         Activities for finding a political solution to the Afghanistan issue reached an unprecedented level in the past three months. So have during this period hopes for breaking the ice for establishment'of an acceptable government in Kabul reached unprecedented level,
         While the mujaheddin, finally signed an agreement- though •v appparent ly under, Pakistani pressure- for the skeleton of an
    interim government to replace the Kabul regime after its downfall and they were busy working out the details of their agreement# at an international level# mujaheddin-Russiart formal meetings in New York# Moscow and Islamabad made many points clear as far the Russian position vis-a-vis the Afghan issue is concerned.
         Look ing in retrospect to what has happened during the past busy three months, one may draw the following conclusions in regard to where we stand now in our efforts towards a solution of the issue:
                                                                                         the
                                                                                 solution of
 Najib regime the issue#
is the main hurdle for
political
             with the exception of the leaders of two organizations, other muajheddin leaders have agreed upon the general structure of an interim government comprised of a Leadership Council; a Shoora-hal     wa aqd (Council of      men of wisdom) and    Interim
     Admin i stration without 1eaders of mujaheddin organizations,
          -although there is an overall consensus that Najib should step down, there are differences on how he ought to be unseated#
          -with    the exception of two   parties# there is an    overall
     willingness to1 hold talks with the Russians to use their leverage in inducing Najib to step down,
          -although there is an overall— consensus among the Afghans for bringing both political and military pressure to topple the
jig
 PRICE: SERIAL. NO:
                                                                                                                                                        SHAH M BOOK CO
                                                                                                                                                        TOtnERSPUBLBHERS, DISTRIBUTORS S BOOKSELLERS
                                                                                                                                                        r shahm.bookco@usa.net shahmbookco@onebox.com
                                                                                                                                                        PO BOX: 1328, KABUL, AFGHANISTAN
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
   Najib  regime, the mujaheddin       have failed to undertake a
   coordinated and comprehesiv.e campaign in this regard.
        Not only the Afghans insist .that before restoring peace -‘in the country Najib and his top aides should step down but there is also a general willingness on the part of the majority of non-Afghan parties to see Najib and his aides go away. The outgoing Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, in an "observation" to his annual report to the General Assembly on Afghanis tan even indicated that "he has been given assurances. that some of the controversial personalities concerned would not insist on their participation, either in the intra-Afghan dialogue or in the transitional mechanism. They would be willing to relinquish their posts, should certain questions pertaining to participation in the intra-Afghan dialogue and the transit ion mechanism be solved."                     -
        The obvious interpretation of this sta»teij\ent is of' course that Najib and his likes would step down, if opponents of the regime agree upon the participation of the so-called Watjan Party in the future political activities of the country. But this would obviously be unacceptable, to the majority of the Afghans because to them the Wa tan Party (the former PD PA) is the equivell ant of say the German fascist party of Nazi of the World War II, whose members are still being haunted and prosecuted. This very party-the former PDP A- to us is the symbol of treason . and • immeasurable destruction of our country.
  '      '                      ' ^    .     ■ ’ ..      . -     ' i •
        In other words, in the light of what the UN Secretary General has said, Najib will not step down unconditionally. He wants the so called Wa tan P ar t y to have a share in the future politics Of Afghanistan. From what the Russians have told the mujaheddin in the three rounds' of talks held between the two sides' in New York, Moscow and Islamabad, Moscow, at least publicly, . is playing a. deceitful game. They say it is up to the* Afghans themselves to unseat Najib, while we all know that the Najib regime is a remnant of Russian aggression of Afghanistan and Moscow has. a moral and indeed legal responsibility in removing it through whatever leverage it has at its disposal, even taking in view the current dismantling of the very Soviet State. This is very important for' the new Russian leader.ship if they want to prove that they abhore the Soviet aggression and atrocities in Afghanistan, and. want to have amicable ties *with us in the future.
        However, despite such       conditions, there is a general
   consensus throughout the circles concerned with the Afghan issue that in order to restore peace in Afghanistan, Najib ought to step down .
            * • • • • " * '
        But what if the outsiders, including the Russians, do not cooperate with the Afghans in the overthrow of Najib through
                                      4 ■    '   '

 |
 ii
 1
 j;
 |
 jl
 j'i
 ii
J ■ 1
 i
  j
 )
 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ♦ i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                             . ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     J !
J
 if''
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 fllllllAfl(IIHHII                VOL. 5 NO. 1
     peaceful means? Or what if the rest of the wolrd, including \ the Russians, have no longer the leverage and inf ltience over the Najib regime for inducing it to , step down?
          We have consistently held that once the Afghans- other than the members of the so-called Watan Party- agree on a joint pi a t form, the Najib clique will melt- away like a chunck of ice ' under the rays of a bright sun shine. But in order to be oh the safe side, and to heed the concern of those who are of the opinion that Najib could not be toppled through diplomatic means, we also stress the importance of ‘military jehad along with political efforts. But our leaders have failed to coordinate their military activities for toppling the Kabul regime just as they have failed to coordinate their political postures.
     '                                                   ' , i
          While there is no doubt in our minds that Najib and his Party should have no role in the future of Afghanistan, we have failed to mobilize; our military and political resources for toppling him.
      To only ask others to help topple him is hot sufficient.
          Let us for a moment, think about the worst scenario: . What if, despite stoppage of outside help, Najib could not be toppled? At one juncture, before the Soviet troops withdrawal, practically all our leaders were predicting the downfall of the Kabul regime once the withdrawal was completed. Almost three years h,ave' passed since that time.
          Now too, let us prepare ourselves about dealing with the worst scenario. In order to deal with this kind of scenario, we have to mobilize all our diplomatic and military efforts.
          Thus, in the light of what we just observed, we disagree with the part of a mujaheddin recent accord on the formation of An interim' government which says their proposed administration should start functioning after the. downfall of the Najib regime presumably in Kabul, While we .reject and vehemently oppose the setting up of another AIG over the ashes of ’ the present one which is. in fact non-operative, there has to be some joint mechenisn for .mobilizing the political and military resources of the mujaheddin for replacing the Kabul regime. Now that, many of the mujaheddin leaders are apparenly in concord abo>ut the formation of another interim government, it is. essential that they should reach another >. agreement for mobilizing, and coordinating their military and diplomatic,efforts for toppling the hated regime of Wajib.
          But, taking into view the dismal mpj aheddin leaders' record in organizing such joint political and military ventures, it will indeed be unrealistic for us -.to now sound optimistic and hope- they will mobilize their political and military resources for achieving the basic objective of our jehad, the toppling of an 'atheist | regime and replacing it with an Islamic one.
                                ,       5   •  ''        •
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       flfCllflNJlllflll        VOL.  5 NO. 1
         Taking into consideration the realities., we do not pretend that we have an answer for this very vital problem, other than to hope that the present formula worked out by them will work. Other alternatives, such as calling another consultative big shoora like the one convened in 1988 in Rawalpindi*- selective or elective- or convening a loya jirgah or calling on somebody from outside to head the interim administration will, just not be possible, taking in view.the past experiences and the present opposition expressed to such measures by the majority of mujaheddin leaders. Let us not concentrate on controversial issues for solution.
         Let us hope that all the three components of the new prpposed set-up will function properly. Let us hope, the Shoora-e-hal wa aqd is really . such a shoora, the body of good prudent Muslims, comprising all Muslim segments of our nation. Let us hope the interim government or the executive i;s really comprized of competent Afghans not subservient to political interest of this or that party and capable    to carry  its limited
   mandates.
         Let us hope our foreign supporters-specia11y Pakistan and Iran-will sincerely help our leaders, to come out successfully of their present quagmire,         and although it will be   naive and
   unrealistic to, ask them to think only of the Afghan interest in helping our divided leaders, at least they realize that their own security and that of the entire region will very much depend on a true and sovereign Afghanistan and not an Afghanistan whose future leaders may be a stooge of this or that power. According to press reports-, Mr. Akram Zaki,    the Secretary General   of the Foreign
   Ministry of Pakistan, when asked about coordination of Pakistani inter-governmental policies said, the time has come when all (Pakistani) government agencies should become subservient to the dictate of the government    and      stop running their own policy. He
   went on to bay what Pakistan required today, was an immediate solution of the Afghan problem which, he reiterated was essential to enable Pakistan to avail the opportunities thrown in its way on account of the development in the Soviet Union.
         Pakistan has always stood on our side for the elimination of the present Kabul regime and. therq should also be no reason to fear that Islamabad may succumb to a deal which might bring into power in Afghanistan forces opposed by a broad spectrum of our mujaheddin. Also we share Mr. Zaki's concern in regrad to the divisions in Pakistani administration vis-a-vis the solution of the Afghan issue and regard this division an .important factor in Pakistani efforts, to assist our leaders adopt a common stand.
         Those who have signed the new mu j aheddin . agreement on an interim government should see that once more this agreement is not thrown into the trash. Because it has been reportedly alleged by some of them that the "agreement has been signed under outside
                                                            6
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991       AIM JIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
   pressure. We should hope that these leaders have not signed the new agreement under some kind of duress,
        Constituting a broadbased shoor a-e-hal va aqd of the Muslims of Afghanistan and forming a government in which Leaders of mujaheddin organizations are not included could be the best way out of present stalemate. We have to have a government at the transitional period with specific mandate and as soon as conditions are conducive, we should resort to public opinion for establishing a permament administration.
        11 i s high time that the mujaheddin leaders whose deeds and behavior in the past have been a main stumbling block for s speedy end to the miseries of our people ought to see that the proposed shoora of men of wisdom as well as the government are staffed with competent, devoted and vigilent people and. for ;once in their lives as "leaders" of jehad exhibit political prudence and sympathy for their people at this sensitive juncture.
        We Afghans once and for all must not try to make scapegoats for our own problem. it is,true that our enemies, whoever they ^may be, will try to undo the gains of our jehad (and that is one ought, to expect of an enemy). But what have we done to clean up our house to unseat the Kabul regime and establish an Islamic government? It is e a sy to talk t h an to act and that is what is wrong with our leaders. Whatever any of them thinks is sound and Islamic, should be detailed in a program, and then he should launch an all-out crusade for implementing it.
   THE FALL OF THE SOVIET UNION
       The eclipse of the Soviet Union should have a moral for- the entire world and should also bring our own leaders into their senses to’ seek a speedy end to the Afghan"cdnflict in the context of our jehad objectives.                                 ,
        As far as its moral to the world as a whole is concerned when the outgoing Soviet leader Gorbachev was awarded the Nobel-Peace Prize, among other things, this magazine while pointing to the inevitable disintegration of the       Soviet * Union,had
   observed: "Has not misery and curse befallen upon Russia, prototype of a modern Godless State which brought untold miseries to the world? Curse is a terrible state, opposite to the Sstate of Grace. Can man Curse? Not in the same context in which we speak of the Curse of God. A mere verbal curse is of no effect... But if men are oppressed or unjustly treated, their cries can ascend to God in prayer and then it becomes God's Wrath or Curse- the deprivation of God's Grace as regards the wrong doers". And we ; would like to remind our readers that it was exactly Christmas Eve of 1979 when the Soviet Union invaded the defenseless neighbouring
7
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 fllGIIANJ[|IAU                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
  Afghanistan and now 11 years on the Christmas Eve its formal eclipse is proclaimed, Some may consider it a coincidence but those who believe in the      Will of  God s ay nothing tak e s place
  without His Will and leave. The Holy Quran says: "No misfortune can happen on earth or in your souls but it is recorded in a decree before we bring it into existence (Surah Al-Hadid: Verse 22) The, Soviet Uriiop was built on injustice and oppression.
       One may sit and laugh    gleefully to what has happened to the
  Soviet Union. But at the samje time    one may  also be   taken aback
  with awe and pray to AliAighty God not to allow what has happened to the Soviet Union to happen to his people and nation. For there a,re- many other kinds of cruelties, atrocities, oppression and deviations from the path of Justice and Truth which ought to be the cause of alarm and        concern  and which God      Almighty is
  punishing them in his own ways right now but we fail to realize. Or He may punish them in more' aweful way than the punishment inflicting the Soviet Union.
       We Afghans * who have been credited with bringing about the start of the crumbling of the ' Soviet; Union, too. Should study carefully   what has . happened north of us. For,    as a   result of
  Soviet dissolution, many new dangers are threatening us and many new opportunities are at our doorstep,
       There are two immediate and specific dangers facing us as a result of these developments:   (1) if  we remain weak  and war-torn
  as we are now,, and fail to organize an .acceptable and strong administration in Kabul, there, might be many ominous fallouts f rom the north .'of border which might threaten our existence and geographical entity,. (2) Our eastern and western neighbours may not want     and may not have the    patience to    loose    the many
  opportunities thrown on their way as a result of Soviet developments just because we are incapable of solving our issues. And therefore they might go along with a scenario for ,the solution of the Afghan issue which may basically be detrimental to the interest of our mujaheddin forces.
. .         i . •  ,                              > - ;
       As for the opportunities, think of the new Islamic and fraternal   ties and many economic   relationships   with   the newly
  independent .Islamic states north    of Amu. once we have our own
  strong government.
       History, will record our prudence or' lack of it. So it i a imperative for our leaders to realize these sensitive issues and above all learn the lesson that, God may not forgive us for our failures to end the miseries of our people because of our departure from His way which calls upon us to hold fast in unity and do not become divided amongst ourselves.
                                          0 &
           /                      * W  w
           ' ;                      b
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991  flltillAjl             VOL. 5 NO. I
                 HIGH RESPONSIBILITIES OF OUR ULAMA
     The holy religion of Islam has given high) priority to education, teaching and scholarship. There are frequent verses in the Holy Quran concerning the virtues of knowledge and true scholar. Even during the time of war when a general mobilization is urged, a group of Muslims are allowed to continue the task of education and pursuance of knowledge and imparting it to other members of the society when conditions are fit.
     The Islamic Shariat for instance says that the angels protect true scholars under their wings and those in the heavens ask forgiveness and blessing for scholars and the s>u pe r i or i t y of a scholar over a vhermit or ascetic has been, described as the superiority of a full moon over other stars. In the' Holy Quran more than 10 times, scholarship and scholars, have been praised of which we offer three:
 ( 1 ) Say : "Are those equal, those who know and those who do not
     know? It is those who are endowed with understanding that receive admiration (Surah Zumar: Verse 9).
 (2) Those1 truely fear God, among his servants, who have knowledge" (Surah Fater:  Verse 28)
 ( 3 ) God will r a ise up, to (suitable) ra n k s (and degrees), those of you who believe and whom have been given knowledge. (S u r ah Mujadela:   Verse 11).
     The Holy Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him,has offered many remarks for the sanctity of knovledge and scholars. These remarks are so many that in the books dealing with the Holy Prophet ’ s remarks an entire chapter or section has been devoted to them. In one Hadis (the saying of the Holy Prophet) he has described "welfare" and "superiority" as the qualifications of scholars: "To
 whom God has willed welfare. He makes him a Scholar of religion." (Quoted in Saheeh Bukhari and Saheeh Muslim.
     The Prophet, peace be upon him, has considered himself from the rank s of scholars and says:
     "I have been raised upas a scholar (Sunan-e-Darami).
     It is on this basis that scholars and particularly our Islamic scholars should grasp their value and importance! utilize their education and knowledge for rightful purposes and act
                                                9
 OCTOBER “DECEMBER v 1991 AfGliAN J[HA0                  VOL. 5 NO- 1
 accordingly; teach others; find out facts and issue verdicts accordingly when called upon them. They should make sure that their \ knowledge serves as a source of goodness and reconciliation and felicitation and stability and unity in the7 community. In case of a dispute theyj must refer to the Holy Quran and the Hadis, For the Quran says: "O believers, obey God and obey the Apostle and those charged with authority among you. If you differ in anything among yourselves, refer it to God and his Apostle, if you believe in God and the Last Day:     That  is best and
 best for final determination." (Surah Nesa:   Verse  59).
      Mujahed, may God Bless him, commenting on this verse says: Whenever there is a dispute among Muslims on principles or details of religion they should refer it to the Quran or Hadis and, solve their disputes accordingly." (Ibn-e-Kaseer Vol.'l pp.408).
      The Quran has warned Muslims not to allow divisions in their ranks and should not follow the foot steps of previous nations such as the Jews and Christians (e.g. see Surah Duran:      Verse 105;
 Sura Ana'am:.-Verse 15-9; Surah Rome: Verse 31-32) .
      The Holy religion of Islam    has explained to its  followers all
 the  principles and details and    has not left things   ambiguous  or
 vague. Furthermore its position is based on reason and common sense. The Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, says;
      "By the Allah, I have set you forth on an obvious and shining religion, the night and day of which (in their amount of light) are equal."
      We are expounding the issue at , a time when our Muslim community is in\dire need of unity     and solidarity and enemies    of
 Islam are intriguing to create divisions in our communities under the   covers of different masks.     It is the duty of    the ulama  to
 enter tihe arena at such times and discharge their real and religious duties.
      Today, thank God, our ulama enjoy an unprecedented limit of freedom and conditions are fit for them to express their view without fear of coercion in accordance with Islamic injunctions and commands and guide the community.                 /
      However, unfortunately, it is being observed that there are divisions in the ranks of scholars themselves. They have been issuing contradictory verdicts and succumbing to various kinds of pe rsuasions and allow others to use and exploit them for their own selfish aims. For instance, , recently one group of our ulama supported and held Islamic the- visit of a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow for hblding talks with the Russians, while another group of them considered it ''un-Islamic • Islam simply does not allow such con tr ad i c tor y verdicts and statements.
      We do not want to support or oppose ahy of the views expressed by these two groups of ulama; what, hwoever, we want to stress is the divisions existing among our very ulama on this and in some other vi t a1 i s s ues now and in the past. Islam simply has not allowed them to do so and we call upon them not act in this; manner.
                                                      ■ \ • ;
                                   10  -■ .'l<' ■
 october-decemberV 1991 flfGHflNJtHAfl     vol. 5 no. 1
Political Dimension
  Mujaheddin Leaders Under Strong Pressure
Afghany International Patience Reach Final Limit
    Developments in regard to finding a solution to the Afghanistan problem all showed that the world was poised to finding a way out of the crisis. Foreign powers and international organizations were exerting pressure on the Afghans to come up with a viable, plan for ending the conflict,, as urgency for solving the problem became further acute when the Soviet Union crumbled by the year end. While unprecedented decrease was reported from battlefield inside the country, the mujaheddin .reaction to the outise pressures was mostly defensive.
                          THE PAKISTANI PRESSURE
    More then any party involved in the Afghan conflict- perhaps even more than the Afghans- Islamabad made frantic efforts to usher some kind of mujaheddin concord on a joint plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem. The Pakistan Prime Minister Muhmmmad Nawaz Sharif met three times during a short span of time with the mujaheddin leaders to stress upon them to agree on a plan.
 Pakistan President Ghulam Ishaq Khan also met the mujaheddin leaders to use his leverage in inducing them to unite behind a workable plan.
    Although Pakistan has since the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan in February, 1988, ^eeri trying to find a peaceful scenario to the Afghanistan issue, it has been alleged, there has not been a coordination of policy among Pakistani institutions in regard to the establishment of a government in Kabul to replace that of Najib. Even it has been alleged that the hardliners in Pakistani high circles are not in favor of a political solution
and they are advocating the downfall of the Kabul regime^ by force.
' • • . *_/ '     ’ • • , # ■ . ‘ • - ' •
    But 'the downfall of the Soviet State and emergence of new independent republics north of Afghanistan have brought home to the Pakistani leadership the urgency to seek a speedy solution of the Afghan problem, althouogh, in reality Islambad had committed itself, to such a policy when the UN Secretary General presented a 5-point plan for the peaceful solution of the problem and Pakistan officially backed that plan earlier this year. '
    ,In addition to being publicly committed to the UN scenario for solving the
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991        flfGUAHJtHllfl                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Afghan issue, Pakistan now finds the issue of solving the problem urgently lest it may loose the many opportunities thrown on its way as result of developments in the former Soviet Union. The Pakistanis already despatched a high level delegation to newly independent Islamic republics of old Soviet Union. It finds now the Afghan issue as the main stubmling block for establishing and expanding ties with these republics.
      The government of Pakistan, as the strongest friend of Afghan mujaheddin, also found it urgently necessary to induce the mujaheddin to come up with a plan lest ofher forces, not quite sympathetic to an Islamic government (which is expected to hold close ties with Pakistan) might come afore and replace the Najib government. .
      But despite such stand, by the end of the year it seemed that Islamabad too was running out of patience with the mujaheddin leaders. One Pakistani newspaper, quoted "a cabient source" as saying the government has already conveyed  a clear signal to those. Afghan leaders who are creating hurdlfes in the
 solution  of the problem to mend their ways and cooperate in the   solution of the
 Afghan problem. If they failed to respond to Pakistan's gesture, the government would not hesitate from proceeding or bypassing them.
                                       THE IRANIAN POSITION
      Although, earlier this year, Iran seemed to have become unusually active in trying to find a solution to the Afghanistan issue, during the past three months it seemed to go along mostly with Pakistani ventures on this issue. Indeed the decision of the Irani based Hezb-e-Wahdat Islami-e-Mujaheddin-e-Afghanistan to (1) appiont  a high ranking  member of the party in its Peshawar   office, (2) the
 despatch  of a high powered team, of the Party to Moscow to hold   talks with' the
 Russians jointly with the Peshawar based mujaheddin delegation under the leadership of Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, (3) to hold a highly cordial meeting of the two high ranking members of the party with Eng. Hekmatyar, whom once the Iranian official newspaper- The Kayhan International- severely criticized, (4) to apparently consent to go along with the agreement reached among the majority of Peshawar based parties in December on a new interim government despite the fact that its representative was not present during the signing of the agreement in Islamabadal, they all showed that Iran was no longer interested in using the Wahdat Party as its strong card in the Afghan game. And the Wahdat Party too publldly spoke on the importance of freedom of parties from outside pressure.
      Although the Iranian action to air drop food supplies to the mostly Shaia Hazara dominated central parts of. Afghanistan was protested by some mujaheddin parties- notably the Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar and the Ittehad-e-Islami of Sayyaf- as a blatant violation of. Afghan sovereignty with Russian and Kabul regime collusion, the Iranians were quick to say that it was done on the basis of mujaheddin request. Prof. Rabbani also defended the Iranian action and considered it as part of Iranian plan to help the people of an area already tinder the mujaheddin control and faced with starvation.           ..
      In other words it is safe to say that Iran during the past three months seemed to be going along with the kind of settlement advocated by the majority
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 HlllllHHJtHlllj                       VOL.  5   NO.
 of the mujaheddin organizatgions and refrained from advocating,policy of its own by exploiting whatver leverage it has in this regard.- But it, too, was clearly harmonizing its pressure with that of Pakistan on the mujaheddin.
                                           SAUDI ARABIA
     The Saudis have been an enthusiastic and consistent supporter of Afghan mujaheddin, However it, too, has become impatient and frustrated with the mujaheddin bickerings and sluggishness to come up with a united plan and reap the benefit of their sacrifices before it is too late. With dramatic and unforseeable changes in international arena, the Saudis have for sometime tried to forge relations with Russia which once was bitterly opposed by Riyad mainly because of its policies in Afghanistan. Qazi Hussian Ahmed, the Amir of Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan, in a speech alleged that the Saudis were aiding the Kabul regime. This brought strong and quick denial by the Saudi Embassy in Islamabad and the Saudi stand was supported in a statement issued by the office of of the AIG President.
     The Saudis furthermore despatched Prince Turky Al-Faisal to hold talks with the mujaheddin about the urgency of evolving a United plan for solving the Afghanistan issue. He met the mujaheddin- leaders in Islamabad together with the Prime Minister of Pakistan.
            -            .     7-    ■      '   • > ’ ■ ,       ,       , • .■ .
     The Saudis furthermore announced the setting up of $ a 40 million fund for the reconstruction of Afghanistan and gave a check of Rs, 180 million to the AIG President to aviod the closure of schools for the Afghan refugees. Because, neither the AIG nor the mujaheddiii organizations is able anymore to finance the Afghan refugee educational programs or any other welfare programs for that matter. It also announced a grant of about $ 2.2 million for the refugees in general.    :       , '
     Furthermore there'are move3 on the part of some Afghan organizations to include Saudi Arabia in the talks being held on the Afghan issue among the mujaheddin, Pakistan and Iran and to make the "triangle" talks into "quardangle" parleys. 1
                            USA ACCUSED F0RESAK1NG THE MUJAHEDDIN
 - Another ,big player in the Afghan issues has been the United States but for some time now several mujaheddin organizations have been accusing the United States of actually supporting the establishment of a non-mujaheddin government in Kabul. During the past three months, very little public activities could be observed by Washington in attempts to find a solution for the Afghanistan issue.
 ^ Only from time to time its special envoy to the Afghan mujaheddin would remark that the U.S wanted the issue to be solved on the basis of an.Afghan consent and the U.S and indeed all the western countries were now supporting the UN 5-point plan on Afghanistan.
     But, while according to an agreement signed between Washington and Moscow earlier this year on a so-called negative symmetry on shipment of arms to the Afghan hostile parties, the United States wj.ll officially stop providing afms to
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfGHJINJfHAfl                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
 the mujaheddin from 1 January, 1992 (the mujaheddin allege that the cut-off of U.S arms to them has actually been in effect for a long time), the U.Sf is still providing funds for humanitarian programs for Afghanistan. The U.S humanitarian help to the Afghans has been so far exclusively channelled through the mujaheddin.
      There were indications during the past three months that the U.S was no longer willing to continue its humanitarian help to the Afghans in proxy. Two Americans were kidnapped inside Afghanistan and this caused a suspension of most American "trans-border" humanitarian operations. There were talks, that the U.S is going to wait until March or April in 1992 and even if a new government is not formed in Kabul- it will move the bulk of its operation to Kabul and will only keep some presence of these offices in Pakistan.
      The Islamic parties of the mujaheddin which strongly lobby for the establishment of the mujaheddin interim government in Kabul have all accused the U.S to have colluded with the Russians and other anti-Islamic forces to prevent the establishement of a mujaheddin government which will purely be Islamic. But one thing was ceretain: the U.S no longer is putting pressure on the mujaheddin to come up with a viable plan for replacing the Kabul regime.
                                  THE AFGHANS: ON THE DEFENSIVE
      Activities undertaken by the Afghan mujaheddin in regard to the solution of the Afghan issue during the past three months were mostly in response to the pressure brought upon them mostly by their friends to present a viable plan for ' ending the Afghan conflict. The Pakistanis, were in the forefront of this pressure although for being so, the leader of Ittaha-e-IslaftiiAfghanistan warned "the mujaheddin friends" not to stand on.the front line with the forces which are intent to bar a mujaheddin interim government.
      Until now, there were no official moves to show Pakistan was foresaking the mujaheddin and siding' with forces advocating mixed government with Najib of a socalled neutral government. On the contrary, Pakistan was trying to convince the mujaheddin to come up with a viable broadbased plan, to counter attempts aimed at brining other forces not on good terms with the mujaheddin into the picture. Pakistah is still trying to help the establishment of a government in Kabul which will be committed to close and amicable ties with it and still it thinks that such a government should be formed from the ranks of the mujaheddin or least through them.
      The mujaheddin seemed to be busy both on home and international fronts to respond to outside pressure for coming up with a viable plan:    (1) on the home
 front leaders of nine mujaheddin organizations signed an agreement setting forth the main features of another interim government and (2) at international front they held three rounds of talks with Russians for solving the Afghan issue.
                                            ON HOME FRONT
      Pakistan made no secret 'of the fact that it was pressuring the mujaheddin'
             '                          14
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991   h[(||IANJtHAO                  VOL, 5 NO. 1
 to come up with a plan for an interim government together with its mechanism. The net result of these contacts was the signing of a new agreement by Prof; Wujaddedi, Eng. Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Mohammadi, Pir Gailani, Prof. Rabbani, Ayatullah Mohseni» Mawlawi Mansoor, Judge Weqad and Mawlawi Sameullah on another government, the thrid one since 1987. Although leader of the Irarnian based Wahdat Party was not present to sign the accord, indications were that they will go along with it.                              ,
      But both Pro. Say^af and Mawlawi Khales publiqly refrained from signing £he agreement.                                                                 ,
      The new agreement envisaged the creation of three bodies for an interim period:  (1) a Leadership Counci, (2) a Council of Hal-wa-Aqd , (Council 'Of Wise
 Men) and (3) a Government dr Executive (see section on documents).
      The Leadership Council will consist of the leaders of mujaheddin organizations, who will in turn elect a President from among themselves to presumably serve as the President of the interim period as well. The Council of Hal-wa-Aqd is to consist of 100 persons appointed by the leaders from their own organizations and other segments of the Afghan society to make a broadbased body. In the government, leaders of the parties will not be included. This government is to serve only for one year and among its tasks will be to hold elections for a new government.
      The organizations which halve signed the accord were said to be busy working on its details.                                                ..
      As soon as the agreement was signed, two of the signatories- Mujaddedi and Gaillani- publicly expressed reservation about it. Mujaddedi said, he did not think the arrangement was workable and he urged the convenig of a loya jirgah. He said, he had to sign the new accord lest he might be accused of personal ambitions to continue his own Presidency.
      Gaillani- through his organization- the NIFA- Said that the envisaged Leadership Council should not be exclusive to leaders of present mujaheddin, organizations; that new members to this body should be included on the majoirty vote of the council and that the President or Prime Minister of the interim government should not be necessarily from leaders of mujaheddin organizations': ahy "Afghan Muslim" should be entitled to assume these two posts. This new stand was interpreted by poliotical observers as a clear attempt by Gailani to make room for Zaher Shah or pro-Zaher elements, a move obviously opposed by the Islamist or fundamentalist parties.         ‘                   ‘
                       (■ ' ' . ' . .• • * ' ' •
      Sayyaf, while refraining from signing the new accord, in an interview was quoted to have said that the agreement was contradictory, ambiguous, objectionable and controversial. He has said, "the confidence of- the nation will only be restored when we trust each other and agree on a leader from among ourselves for an interim period." However, he has said, we cart find a way out in the third article of the agreement (dealing with- the Council of Hal-wa-Aqd), i.e., since the agreement has already been reached on 100-member Council, two more people who meet all the requirements of this,Islamic Council could be added
                                 ...       15
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       AFGIiANJiMO               VOL. 5 NO. 1
 on the basis of a fixed proportion; this Council shall decide on (other issues of the interim period)."
      From what he has said one can very will derive that he might be willing to join the accord after all.
      But Prof. Sayyaf, in a pamphlet printed in 30,000 copies in his own name, had earlier argued against all the alternatives so far presented for solving the Afghanistan issue. These altenatives are all listed in Sayyaf's peacefully argumentative presentation. While claiming that the real objective of the world community insisting nowadays for a so-called broadbased government was to actually bring non-Muslims or Muslims with diluted belief in Islam into the fold of a government in Afghanistan, he has said the government in which he still serves as the Prime Minister was (Sufficiently broadbased, yet others refused to recopgnize it.
      Prof. Sayyaf has been pointing to the government which: was established by the Consultative Council of Rawalpindi in 1988. That government, which still exists but only in name, was formed in a peculiar manner. Members of the government were not selected by the Prime Minister or the President. Instead, leaders of each seven Peshawar based mujaheddin organizations were asked to appoint three ministers of their own choice for the various portfolios of^the cabinet. That government was dutybound to move its headquarters into the. interior of Afghanistan within one month of its formation and hold elections in six months. Furthermore, that government was in no way broadbased and consisted only of the members of the seven Peshawat based parties. It was paralyzed from .very start with disputes and boycotted by some of' its own members. It was a government with many of its ministries redundent and not needed in exile, etc.
        /      ' 1  '  .   , ' * '.‘-.I        k      -               -      ... ■
                                       ON INTERNATIONAL FRONT
      The mujaheddin leaders, were not only, pressured to work out a viable alternative for an interim government but they were also persuaded to go to- the UN to hold talks with the UN Official, the Russian diplomats and other world leaders on Afghanistan; a mujaheddin delegation also went to Moscow and then they held talks in Pakistan with a Russian delegation headed by the Vice President of the Russian Federation Alexander Rotskoy.
      In New York, the Afghan mujaheddin delegation was headed by Prof. Mujaddedi. He held talks -with the Foreign Minister of then Soviet Union Boris Pankin and, while Mujaddedi was still in New York, it was reported that the Russians had proposed the setting up of a government in, Kabul headed by a mujaheddin leader but the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime F.azlulhaq Khaliqyar should retain his post. The media speculated that the Russians actually meant Mujaddedi to be the head of the state. Mujaddedi, commenting on the proposal, said, as far as he was aware, Khaliqyar was not a> member of the communist party and he was also a good Muslim. This statement by Mujaddedi caused a, barrage of criticism by many mujaheddin leaders and Mujaddedi later tactfully retracted what he had said. (Mujaddedi also held a hot potato in his hand when he criticized Pakistan for its interference in the Afghan internal affairs)
                                        16 ,
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 lUN JIHIIII                               VOL.  5 NO. 1
  Several mujaheddin leaders harshly criticized Mujaddedi for his statement saying that Pakistan had not interfered in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and was the arch supporter of the Afghan mujaheddin since the beginning of jehad* However, Mujaddedi, while, clarifying his statement, that he did not mean interference by the Pakistani leadership in the Afghan affairs, said what he meant was that some Pakistani military officers were interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan).
       It was mujaheddin visit to Moscow which caused intense controversy. Some mujaheddin leaders, notably Mawlawi Khales and Prof. Sayyaf, publicly denounced the visit and called it a well-off of the Afghan jehad and honor. They- and others opposing the visit- said, to go to the home of an enemy L whose paws and teeth were.still smeared with the Afghan blood, was not right; it was imperative for the Russians to nullify all the agreements which they had signed with the Kabul regime since 1978; it was imperative for the Russians to pay war reparations; it was incumbant on the Russians to dismiss the Kabul regime which was of their making and hand over the power to the mujaheddin; it was necessary for the mujaheddin delegation to have a fix agenda agreed upon before hand.,           "                     -
   1 • •                       ■ ■ _ 1 ■ • • • . . ' • .
       These were the main points of the criticism which opponents of the Moscow visit levelled. The Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar also refrained from sending a representative in the Afghan delegation and shared some of- the criticism just mentioned but, it said, it would wait for the outcome. ,of the talks between the mujahedcuin delegation and the Russians to see whether the Russians were sincere in reaching a settlement on Afghanistan.
       Contrary to what is now being believed, the Afghan delegation's visit to Moscow to meet the Russians was not the first encounter between the two sides. Indeed the mujaheddin and Russians had at least two major rounds of negotiations in 1989 in Islamabad and Saudi Arabia. The Russian delegation in those talks were headed by high' ranking Soviet diplomat Yuli Vorontsov Who is now serving as the Russian chief delegate to the United Nations. And.just before the Moscow visit, other mujaheddin leaders had met the Russians officially in New York at the UN.
       The Russians agreed as a result of Moscow talks on the formation of an "Islamic interim government" in Afghanistan and said it was upto this government to decide on the fate of the agreements reached since 1978 between the Kabul regime and Moscow. The "joint declaration" of mujaheddin and Russians did not mention the issue of war reparation but said the Russians would take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. It also called for the release of.POWs. The joint declaration said, a mujaheddin-Russian commission Will be established to implement the Moscow Accord.
       Later the Hezb-e-Islami of Hekmatyar agreed to join the next round of Russian-mujaheddin talks which Were held- late in December ini Islamabad.
  '            \ 1 ‘  •                 .3.   , . . s . ' ■ " "  -    • •
       While the Moscow parleys were believed to be more dramatic and clearcut, nothing tangible was achieved from the second round of talks held in Islamabad* The Russians seemed to mainly interested to see their POWs released while the
                                                      17
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991             IMHlH          :           VOL.  5 NO.  1
 mujaheddin, specially Hekmatyar, insisted that the issue of POWs should be only one of the items of the agenda and the mujaheddin have 40,000 prisoners with enemy. The mujaheddin had agreed to release the first group, of Russian POWs before the end of 1991. One of them was handed over to Rotskoy in Islamabad and three of them were handed to the Russian Embassy in Islamabad later.
     While the mujaheddin said they have fulfilled their pledges, the Russians were still sending arms to the Kabul regime which was a violation of their agreement with the mujaheddin in Moscow.
     With the falling apart of the Soviet Uhiom and the emergence of new states and lack of a central authority to' deal with questions such as that of Afghanistan, the very usefulness of contacts with the Russians was in jeopardy. The newly , independent Islamic republics of former Soviet Union have all agreed to join what is now called The Commonwealth of Independent Nations, despite the resurgence of Islamic movements in these republics and one has to see to what extent they are going to support the mujaheddin cause in stopping thier relations with the Kabul regime.                                            1
                                          THE OIC SUMMIT
     Another mujaheddin encounter at international level was at Dakar, Senegal, where earlier in December the heads of state or government of Organization of Islamic Countries met. The Afghanistan seat in the OIC has been already given to mujaheddin since 1988 and not only Mujaddedi, the President of AIG, attended the Dakar summit but several other leaders of mujaheddin organizations also accompanied him. They all went with Prime Minister Nawaz Sahrif in his plane.
     The Dakar' summit expressed concern at what it called "new obstacles" created , for the Afghans towards the realization of their right to self“ determination. The OIC expressed support for the mujaheddin in their efforts to form a broadband government in Kabul. This part of the\ OIC summit is significant because in the past the Organization did not mention mujaheddin in this connection. It also called for the political solution of the Afghan problem in which the political, independent, sovereign, non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan are restored.
       OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991   AfGKAKJ[KflO         VOL. 5 NO. 1
                               MAJOR DOCUMENTS
    £ MUJAHEDDIN LEADERS AGREE ON ANOTHER INTERIM GOVERNMENT   21
    9 JOINT MUJAHEDDIN-SOVIET DECLARATION        ~             22
    9 AFGHAN JEHADIC ORGANIZATIONS AND MOSCOW DECLARATION      23
         1.  PESHAWAR GATHERING SUPPORTS MOSCOW ACCORD
         2.  ULAMA SUPPORTING THE ACCORD
         3.  ULAMA OPPOSING THE ACCORD             ,
         4.  AFGHAN ISLAMIC MOVEMENT AND MOSCOW DECLARATION
         5.  HEZB-E-ISLAMl'S CONDITIONAL SUPPORT
    9 JEHAD IC ORGANIZATIONS REFLECT ON AFGHAN ISSUE           32
         1.  ALL COMMANDERS' COUNCIL
         2.  IIA MILITARY OFFICERS
         3.  ULAMA, COMMANDERS OF SOUTHWEST
         4.  SAYYAF ISSUES PAPER ON BEHALF OF IIA
         5.  COMMANDERS' HIGH COUNCIL
         6.  PAKTIA, PAKTIKA MILITARY COUNCIL
     9    HEIA ULAMA CONDEMN ATTACK ON EDITOR FEROTAN '               49
     9    UN RESOLUTION ON AFGHANISTAN                                50
  ■ 9     UN SECRETARY GENERAL’S REPORT ON AFGHANISTAN                53
     9    UN HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION ISSUES REPORT ON                 65
          AFGHANISTAN
     9    AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL ISSUES REPORT ON AFGHANISTAN          69
     9    SHOORA-E-ITELAF REJECTS COALITION WITH NAJIB REGIME         76
 f  9     SHOORA-E-ITELAF AND TRIPARTITE ISLAMABAD, TEHRAN            77
          PARLEYS
                              /          2 U
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
CREDITOR'S NOTE: The. leaders of mujaheddin organizations held a G CJ meeting 3 December for establishing a ’Leadership Council’ and an jE( a Islamic interim government. They initialled the agreement in the Q a meeting. The following is text of' their agreement published 8 a Decemberin Shahadat newspaper.                                         Q
           In a meeting in Islamabad 12-9-1370    (3-12-1991)  attended  by Sebghatullah
                            Mujaddedi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nab i Mohammadi, Burhanuddin nRabbani, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekraatyar, Ayatullah (Mohammad Asef) Mohseni, Engineer
            Ahmad Shah, Judge Mohammad Amin Weqad, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and Mawlawi
      Samiullah, the following measures were agreed upon:
      1.   Establishment     of a Leadership Council comprised .of the      leaders of
           (mujaheddin) organizations. The Council will, elect one person from among themselves as President.
      2.   Establishment    of an interim     Islamic government which will  not include
           mujaheddin leaders.
      3.   Expansion of the present (stet) 41-member commission to 60-100 members.
      4.   The interim government will hand over power to an elected government within 12 months.
      5V. Election will be held within this period (one year).
      6.   After the establishment of        elected council ((Parliament),  the present
           Leadership* Council will be dissolved.
      7.   The mujaheddin interim Islamic government will resume work after the fall
           of the Kabul    regime and the      transfer of all authority to  the interim
           government. SIGNED BY:   Prof.  Mujaddedi,  Mawlwi Nasrullah Mansoor, Prof.
           Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohmmadi, Eng. Hekmatyar, Ayatullah Mohseni, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Judge Weqad, Mawlawi Samiullah.
                                                         21
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991, MMIJIHAD                      VOL.  5 NO. 1
               EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of the joint Afghan mujaheddin-Soviet declaration at the conclusion of mujaheddin delegation visit to Moscow. The text is from the original English copy released by the Permanent Mission of the Soviet Uniqn at the UNf November 19» 1991.
            A Pakistan-based mujaheddin delegation headed by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani and an Iran-based mujaheddin delegation headed by S.R. Moratzad (Mortazavi).were in Moscow November 11-15 1991 at the invitation of the government of the Soviet Union and the Russian Federation. It was the first time a delegation of ,the Afghan mujaheddin paid an official visit to the Soviet Onion.                i
             Russian Republic Vice-President. Alexander Rutskoy and Burhanuddin Rabbani met for what were fruitful talks focusing on the Afghan political settlement and the problem of Soviet POWs and the mujaheddins being held prisoner by the Kabul regime.   ; ,
            Prof. Rabbani and the mujaheddin delegation met Eduard Shevardnadze, member of the Political Consultative Council and former Soviet Foreign Minister.
            The mujaheddin delegation held official negotiations with( Soviet Foreign Minister Boris D. Pankin, Russian Republic Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev', Tajik Foreign Minister L. Kayumov, Deputy Foreign Ministers of the USSR and the RSFSR and. representatives from other republics.
            The delegation had a lengthy, and productive meeting with the families of prisoners of war;
            During the meetings and negotiations, which were frank and useful the sides set forth their respective positions.                                           ,
       1.   They reaffirmed theis denunciation of the unconstitutional decision to send N Soviet troops to Afghanistan as well as the Soviet participation in a war
            which has brought and continues to bring untold suffering to the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
       2.   The sides reiterated the need to transfer all power in Afghanistan to an Islamic transitional government.
       3.   The mujaheddin delegation pledged that a genera! election would be held in Afghanistan with the assistance of the Organization, of the Islamic Conference and the United Nations within two years' time upon the transfer of power from the Kabul regime to an interim government.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ... 22
 /
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 4.
 5.
 6 •
 7.
The validity of the treaties signed by the Soviet Uhion and the Soviet-backed governments between 1978 and the time of transfer bf power will be decided by the interim government.
The sides agreed tp do their utmost to secure the release of the POWs. As part of the peace process the mu^jaheddins will take action to have the first group of Soviet POWs released before January 1, 1992. The necessary practical arrangements for the release will be carried out by a joint commission. '
The Soviet side agrees to stop supplying arms, combat equipment and fuel for combat vehicles to the Kabul regime before January 1992 and to, move toward drastic cuts followed by a complete withdrawal of Soviet ; military personnel from Afghanistan.
 The Soviet Union pledges reconstruction efforts.
 to participate in the joint post-war
   8. A joint body is to be established within a month to provide for . the implementation of these provisions and to pursue the negotiations.
   JEHADIC ORGANIZATIONS’REACTION ON MUJAHEDDIN-RUSSIAN TALKS
               EDITOR'S NOTE:   Following is the joint mujaheddin declaration
               supporting the recent mujaheddin delegation to the Moscow talks issued at the AIG Presidential Officet 28 November f 1991v at the conclusion of a meeting held in this regard. The meeting was attended by Prof. Rabbatni» leader of JIA, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mphammadi» leader of HEIAf Ayatullah Mohsenii leader of HI A, Judge Mohammad Amin Weqadt leader of Da1 eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islamif representatives of the NLFA and NIFA and members of the delegation which had visited Moscow. The meeting was attended by some 500 persons representing more than 50 members from each of these organization•
            It was 12 years ago when the Red Army invaded Afghanistan against all international laws, norm? and all humanitarian rights and good neighburly relations. During many years, the occupation forces trampled the most elementary M human rights and murder# looting and devastation took a toll of the people.         ^
 23
J
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANlltHflli                VOL.  5 NO. 1
              The martyrdom of hundreds of thousands of the people, the destruction of the majority of the what was built in our beloved Afghanistan have been the net-results of this shameless aggression which have subjected the Muslim Afghan nation to innumerable problems.
              Finally, the Red Army, in encountering the Muslim Afghan pation in a battle unproportional as regards military and logistic facilities, was defeated and had to take the news of  its shameful defeat to Moscow with down-cast eyes.
              Two years and   nine months after the withdrawal                of  the Soviet troops from
         Afghanistan, their illegal and puppet regime, which is the result of this aggression, is still breathing with the unlimited military and political support of the Soviet Union.                                • -
              While the mujaheddin are busy fighting the enemy ahd are the victors of the battlefield, the Kabul regime made all-out frantic efforts to maintain the political front and  to secure its shameless existence               by this means.
              During the 13   years of war, imposed upon them                 by  the Soviet Union, the
         mujaheddin had always considered the Russians as the principle side to the war and had insisted that there were only two sides to this war- the mujaheddin and the Russians. The mujaheddin had always regarded the regimes in Kabul as heirs of aggression. They have not acceded any legal status to this regime, and are determined to cpntinue their sacred jehad until the overthrow of their last ventages without, sparing any effort.
              For this reason, after repeated requests by the Soviet government, the mujaheddin considered the Soviet request for talks on the solution of the Afghan problem and the majority of the organizations decided to sehd a high-ranking delegation to Moscow.
              With due regard to the interests of the Muslim and mujahed Afghan nation, a mujaheddin delegation, led by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA, with leaders and representatives of other organizations of HEIA, NLFA, NIFA, Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami, HIA (Mohseni) and HWIA attending as members, left for Moscow 10 November. The mujaheddin delegation left victoriously at a time when, as a result of their jehad and their singular sacrifices, the Soviet Union and the region have been confronted with changes and developments.
              The mujaheddin want the end of war and bloodshed in the country more than any party to the conflict. For this reason they will accept any effort that will restore peace to Afghanistan and realize the mujaheddin aspirations, ensure our Islamic and national identity and territorial integrety* The Moscow proposal was considered in this context so as to test their sincerity in regard to peace.
              The mujaheddin stand in the Moscow talks was clearly stated and the joint declaration is a clear indication of the result of these talks. Hence we, the mujaheddin of Afghanistan, while expressing our support of the Moscow negotiations confirm the following:                         *                   i '
         1.   We consider the joint resolution as a positive steps towards the solution of the Afghan issue and regard it as official confession to the legality of our stand and confirmation of our. jehad-.
         2.   While we do not refrain in our efforts , to seek a solution tb the Afghan problem in the interest of the mujaheddin,,we will continue our jehad until final victory.
                                                     24
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
    3.   The Kabul regime -and its supporters will not be given the right to take part in the interim government, elections or negotiations and we reject formation of a coalition government with the communists.
    4.   Direct, face-to-face and clear-cut talks shall continue until the terms in the joint declaration are implemented and power and authority are restored to the interim Islamic government.
    5.   Now that the Soviet Russia has officially and clearly condemned their aggression in Afghanistan, the Islamic nations, inteirhational organs and councils should severe their political relations with the Najib eregime and recognize the interim Islamic government.
    6.   Now that the Russians officially admit that their invasion of Afghanistan was a mistake and that the mujaheddin are the true representatives of the Afghan nation, they are legally dutybound to compensate the damage done to Afghanistan through their aggression.
    7.   We urge all mujaheddin leadership and the Muslim people of Afghanistan to form an alliance at this sensitive stage with realizing their Islamic obligations for achieving the jehad objectives.
□
D
8
D
a
o
o
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are the highlights of the text of a verdict of 45 well known Afghan religious scholars supporting the visit of an Afghan mujaheddin delegation to Moscow to hold talks with the Russians• The text of the verdict has been translated from the November-December 1991 issue of the Jabha-e- Jehad newspapeer.
U
    QUESTION: What is the opinion of our Islamic scholars in regard to repeated invitations issued by the Russian government to a delegation of jehad leaders and scholarly members of mujaheddin organizations to visit Moscow and hold talks for bringing to an end the bloodshed in Afghanistan and creating calm atmosphere there for the return of several million refugees to their homeland and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan? Is such a visit permissible in accordance to Islamic Shariat?
    VERDICT: On the basis of repeated requests by the Soviet government to a delegation of Afghan mujaheddin organizations for solving the Afghanistan issue, and stopping of Russian intervention as well as the Replacement of the Kabul regime with an Islamic government, there is no objection for a visit of mujaheddin delegation to the Soviet Union. Rather such a visit will solve many of the difficulties now facing the Afghan Muslim nation.
         For the sake of eliminating a number of misconceptions, we offer the fol-
                                -      I      1 .  .    .     '
25
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
       lowing quotations from authoratative Islamic sources of the Hanafi school of religion:                 • .
       - The Holy Quran says:     "If the enemy inclines towards peace, do you (also)
       incline towards peace# and trust in God: for He is One that hears and knows (all things. Surah Anfal: Verse 61).
            On the basis of this verse of the Holy Quran and the Tradition of the. Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, the Islamic jurisprudents have concentrated on three words: peace# welfare and property. If peace is going to be safeguarded and human lives are saved., public welfare restored and property not destroyed, it ought to be accepted. For such an honorable peace in fact is in the interest of jehad. Otherwise it should be rejected. In’ case of an imminent enemy victory, paying reparation is also essential in order to safeguard the honCr, chastity, lives of the people and children of Muslims. For this well in fact be tantamount to preparation for the future jehad and, at the same time prevent the unwarranted killing of the Muslims.                          ,
            In regard to peace with the nemey the Islamic scholars have the following points into consideration: (1) an obvious need to peace by Muslims, (2) permission of the head of state (Imam) for declaring peace, (3) for the sake of the welfare of the Islamic community, (4) the right of Muslims to implement provision of the peace.                                .
            When there is a paramount need for peace, Muslims are allowed to resort to it even if the head of the state refuses to declare peace. Even if the Muslims are in full strength but they are in need of arms and food supplies, etc., resorting to peace is permissible for them. The author of Qudoori has said that peace, ifv in the interestof Muslims, can be made with the entire enemy or a section of it. The author of Kanz-ul-Daqayeq has described peace as permssible and the author of Bahr-ul-Rayeq as incumbent in case the Muslims are weak. In the book of Masboot-e- Sarkhasi it is mentioned:
            If the nemy wants property for resorting to peace, the head of the state of Muslims should think about it and if it is in the interest of the Muslims^ he should accept it.
            But in volume 10 of the book of Mabssod it has been mentioned, if the enemy besieges the Muslim army and demands compensation each yeaf, the head of the Muslim state should , not accept this demand as it v/ould be tentamOunt to humiliation. But even under such circumstances, if the head of the Muslim states fears weekness, fear and despair among the Islamic army, he can agree to enemy demand and pay certain amount of reparations annually. For instance during the Khandaq Jehad at the time of the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, when large number of enemy troops had besieged the dich which was dug by the Muslims around the city of Madina, and the Muslims were in a state of fear and despair, Prophdt Muhammad, ( peace be upon him, haid agreed to pay to Obaida ben-e-Husn one third of the annual harvest of dates of Madina so that his tribe and followers would stop assisting the rest of, the enemy. However, Sa'ad ben-e-Ma'az and Sa'd ben-e-Ebada, two Companions of the Holy Prophet, ’ in a petitition to Prdphet Muhammad, peace be upon him, said if his stand was based on a-decree of Almighty
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfflllflN JIHIlil
VOL. 5 NO. 1
   God, he ought execute it, otherwise they said they were not ready to give even one date to Obaida and his followers. "We will face them with our sword and spears, they said. And on this account, the Prophet, peace be upon him, refrained from paying and property to the enemy.  -
      At this sensitive juncture, when large numbers of people are killed daily by the enemy, houses, gardens and agriculture are being destroyed, the people inside the country are having a hazardous and dangerous life and our refugees too outside the country are facing many difficulties, if a delegation is going to the Soviet Union with sincerity in accordance with the command of Almighty God and instructions of the Prophet, peace be upon him, for ending this chaotic state and difficulties and secure the rights of the people of Afghanistan and peace and tranquility, there is no objection to such a visit from the Shariat point of view.                                 r
      Therefore, we request* all the jehad leaders, ulama, commanders and the refugees to join hands- as they did in the beginning of jehad for the sake of the pleasure of God Almighty and his Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and for the survival of the Holy religion of Islam and protection of the honor of our beloved country by sacrificing theirselves, children and property, and drove out the enemy with humiliation from their beloved country- now too they should join hands, refrain from divisions and only for the sake of pleasure of God refrain* from bldodshed and rid the destituted people of Afghanistan from different kinds of difficulties and miseries.
   3. Ulama Opposing Talks

NOTEi The following is the text of a verdict by 105 which the visit of an Afghan delegation to Moscow for the future of Afghanistan has been declared unlawful
 EDITOR'S ulama in talks on from Islamic point of view.
• •
V,
V.
•.*,
V.
V.
V.
*'• • • • ♦ • • I • «•••• • * •
•.•••• • • •••••••••••I
                                                                                                      • •• • » •»»v
► • « • • *1
► ♦ • • • • 4 • » • • * «
                                                                                                              • • » # « « # ♦ • •
                                                                                                              • •• 0 0 • • • • * ♦ » • ♦ « • • •.•••.•-•••.•••A*.*.***.* *

         The Afghan jehad was launched in the name of Almighty God, the establishment of an Islamic government and preservation of the honor and dignity of the Afghan Muslim and mujahed nation. We will never be satisfied with an unisla-raic coalition or neutral government and whatever system established with the Russian or US consent can never be regarded as an Islamic government and, while Russian assistance to the Kabul atheist regime still continues and the enemy has already killed 1,6.00,000 of our innocent Muslim people, and brought destruction to our country and trampled on the things held sacred to the people of' Afghanistan, we consider it disrespect to visit the home of the Russians; particularly to negotiate the future of Afghanistan with the Soviets at this stage is unlawful from religious point of view.
                   ,                         27
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfllHANJ[HAfl                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
   4. Kabul Province
              EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of the resolution of the mujaheddin and commanders of Kabul province who have made their position clear regarding the latest developments on the Afghan scene• The resolution condemns the recent visit to Moscow of the mujaheddin delegation and rejects the establishment of a coalition government. The resolution was first published in the 4 November issue of Ittehad-e-Islami journal:
            After the advent of Islam^ the great battles that have taken place between the Muslims and’ the infidels are those in the Afghan jehad which have been blessed and, with unseen support of Almighty God and strong will of the mujaheddin of, this land -forced in contemporary history the greatest atheist and Satanic power, in the world to kneel before the mujaheddin.
            Our Muslim nation began defending the jehad aspirations with offering their lives and whatever they held dear and in their possession and towards this end, 1.5 million of our people were martyred, five million were forced to leave their homes and Afghanistan was transformed into a heap of rubbles.                  .
            Yes, our Muslim nation during their 14 years of jehad, finally managed to force the enemy to a( shameful defeat. Our justified and legifimat jehad brought about rapid changes in communist organizations and in their international center- the Soviet Union. The great Russian empire began to fall apart, its communist party Was dissolved, the most dangerous murder institution- the KGB-was eliminated, the subdued republics proclaimed their independence from Russia, the statues of Lenin and their other .leaders were toppled by those people who were kept in captivity for over 70 years. Their infamous leaders admitted that the occupation of Afghanistan was a blunder.
            If a definite strategy were evolved and a sincere unity established among the mujaheddin forces, it would have been impossible for the puppet Najib regime to continue its shameful existence so far.
            The Russians, with collaboration of the US, which hates Islam, are trying to achieve under various pretexts what they failed tp do in the battle-field..
            The 5-point UN plan, the tripartite Islamabad and Tehran conferences, inviting mujaheddin to the United Nations, the submissionof two proposals by the Soviet Foreign Minister to the mujaheddin delegation and finally the visit of the mujaheddin delegation to Moscow under the present conditions are all plots by the world arrogance, led by the US and the Soviet Union, to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
            The mujaheddin visit to Moscow at a time, while the enemy is defeated and exhausted, is a degradation of the mujaheddin and a historical disgrace. The
                                                       28
OCTOBER-DECEMBER» 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
      delegation had no valid and authentic documents from a legal source representing the will of the people of Afghanistan. We, therefore, declare our stand regarding the recent developments as follows:         ,
      ,1.  While our                                 mujaheddin are going through the last stages-    of their
           victory, we (consider the delegation's visit to Moscow as disrespect and insult to the jehad. Since the delegation cannot represent the mujaheddin we, therefore, strongly condemn and reject it.
      2.   We condemn and reject the US and Soviet proposals regarding decision taking
           in future government of Afghanistan, because an infidel, has no right to take part in the destiny of an Islamic country.      ■
      3.   Coalition                                and neutral governments shared by non-Muslim or suspicious
           elements are illegal according to Islamic teachings and are, 'therefore, condemned and rejected.
      4.   Those elements who regard our just and legat jehad against the nests of infidels and atheists as a mere bloodshed, are doing the greatest insult to our jehad trenches and we reject them outrightly.
      5.   Only the mujaheddin have  the right to determine the fate of                         the country.
      6.   Our jehad will continue until the total annihilation                                  of traces of
           infidelity and establishment of an Islamic government.
           We pray to Almighty God to protect our jehad from the evils of enemies of Islam and to establish an Islamic order in Afghanistan.
             EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of the Islamic Movement's third resolution and its stand On recent developments of the Afghanistan issue. The text has bean adopted from 28 October issue of the ”Ittehad-e-lslami" newspaper.
 The res
___istance put hp by the Afghan Muslim and mujahed nation against the
    Russian installed regime.s and against the Russian merciless army during the past 13 years, has had few examples in history.
          We are proud that with, the help of Almighty God and the unparallaled ■resistance of this jehad, the Red Army was defeated1 and withdrew from Afghanistan shamefully and disgracefully.
the
The puppet■regime is still ruling even three years after the withdrawal of Soviets. But their stay in power is not the result of the support of the
                                               29
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
    nation. It is because of the lack of a unified mujaheddin strategy on the one hand, and persistant intervention of foreign colonial powers in our internal affairs on the 6ther. Now that the Russian Empire is facing serious problems, on the one hand, liberation movements have reached their climax inside the Soviet Union and states under Soviet subjugation are attaining independence one after the other and the day is not far off when this empire, built on aggression and atrocity, will be disintegrated. On the other hand, as the result of the unnatural communist system, the desperate economic order (of the Soviet Union) too will break up the empire an,d it will not be possible for them to continue their support of the Kabul regime because it is undoubtedly a great burden on their shoulders. It is also quite clear that without the Russian support the Kabul puppet regime will not be abl.e to exist even one day. Therefore, the Russians had to find a saving face both for themselves and for the puppet regime in Kabul. For this reason the Russians proposed to the mujaheddin delegation at the United Nations in New York that, they were prepared to quit their support of the Kabul regime provided the present Prime Minister who, in their opinion is not affiliated with, the Watap party, remains in his post, or the former monarch; Zaher Shah, takes over as the head of state.
         On the other hand the US wants•to prevent a mujaheddin government, both for the present and the future, by bringing its own form of government under , the disguise of the UN plan.
         The truth is that the want of a unified program among the mujaheddin organizations has provided the US with the opportunity to dare carryout its evil plans with utmost confidence and to impose with tricks and/ hypocritical tactics, a government on our Muslim and mujahed nation which will, on the one hand, safeguard its interests in Afghanistan and on the other, act as a stumbling block against every Islamic movement in the country.
         What is more astonishing is that; in order to give such a. government a legal shape, it also intends to obtain the consent of, a large number of the mujaheddin organizations, so that to tie their hands in their backs in the future and to suffocate voices in favor of an Islamic movement in the future and to turn them over, with hands and feat tied, to such rulers who would always take their orders from Washington and to sacrifice all our national anld religious prides to please the US.
         Under these circumstances the mujaheddin leaders have to avoid any kind compromise with the defeated enemy and to keep the banner of this still jeh&d higher and not permit the US and the Soviet Union to determine our leadership. Otherwise it would be tantamount to the replacement of one puppet re<£&jMH with another again with the consent of the US and Russia. *'■.
         For this reason we members of the Islamic Movement strongly urge the mujaheddin leaders not to subject our . nation with despair oLo*to bury the mujaheddin aspirations or to force the mujahed nation to a civil war in order to attain and uphold their honor, an honor which has no other subsjfttut^e. There is no doubt that the present position of the Russian government and the pathetic condition of the KaWl regime also bear witness to the fact that the mujaheddin can attain their long-cherished desire of establishing an Islamic government.
30
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 fifflllllll JIHAU                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
    but the only obstacle to this end is the lack of unity and a unified strategy among them.
         We, the.refore, draw the attention of the mujaheddin organizations to the sacrifices offered ty the mujahed nation for the cause of the establishment of an   Islamic government. Members of this movement have been      working with the
    organization* under the pledge that by their efforts for the realization of these goals, they will fulfill their aspirations for establishing, an Islamic government and, thus, will start living as a proud nation in' this world. Since in   these 13 years of   jehad, the mujahed people have not      succumbed to any
    intrigue or collusion, we strongly request the mujaheddin leaders to leave their differences aside and forget their individual and organizational interests arid establish a strong and united front and to regard jehad and national interests over and above anything else.
         So even if after    now, the mujaheddin leaders do not      try to alter the
    present condition and, at this Sensitive and critical moment upon which hinges the life and death of our mujahed and Muslim nation, they remain indifferent and decide to hand over, the destiny of the mujahed, nation to a neutral or coalition government, it will not only be treason to the mujahed nation but it will also be a waste of the 13 year gains of jehad. The hopes of our Islamic nation which has been striving for the results of this jehad, will be dashed completely.
         We declare the fbllowing to our own people and to the world that:
               , *
    1.   We consider the visit to Moscow of the mujaheddin delegation as a severe damage to the dignity of the mujaheddin, because as our jehad stands on the threshold of complete victory, it is not necessary to offer apology at the door-step of the enemy for the solution of our problem.
    2.   The government and the leadership for Afghanistan will be determined by the Afghans themselves. Nq one has the right to decide this with the Soviet Union or any other country.
    3.   A neutral coalition government will not be acceptable to the Afghan Muslim , and mujahed nation both from the religious and political points of view. We, therefore resolutely reject it and we will deal with it the same way as we did with the communist regimes in the past.
    4.   Only a handful of people should not decide the future government of Afghanistan. A large Islamic Council representing the entire nation should decide this issue.,
! ■.
                                                                          31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             r
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
6. Executive
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a statement by the Executive Council of HIA (Hekmatyar) in regard to the mujaheddin talks in Moscow. The text has been translated from the 16 October, 1991, of the Shahadat newspaper.
      In principle we are in agreement with holding talks with Moscow as a party which, due to its military aggression, the present Afghan events have come about and still supports its imposed regime. Mu jaheddin-Russian talks have take;v, place in the past at different stages', venues and levels. Now too such talks are possible and we consider it as a necessity. However, op the basis of certain specific considerations emanating from Russian behaviour, we refrain from participation in the forthcoming talks to be held in Moscow.
  If Moscow wants to hold serious and sincere talks for just and real solution of the Afghanistan issue with the Afghan nation and if it is ready to compensate for the bitter past experiences, and if it respects the . national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and refrains from interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and also does not consent with interference by others and if together with the US and others it does not attempt to establish another imposed government and if the, selected (Afghan’ mujaheddin) delegation represents the mujaheddin and their stand in the framework of an established agenda, we are in agreement with holding' talks and ready to commit ourselves to implementing the agreements reached (in such talks). If we become assured that Moscow is showing sincere interest to such talks, we will not refrain from*participating in later phases of such talks.
   JEHADIC ORGANIZATIONS AND THE AFGHAN ISSUE
  1 . All             Commander s Co
P
Q
B-
P a o
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The General Council of Mujaheddin Commanders in a meeting 14 September, 1991, rejected in a resolution, the formation of a coalition government and what it calls the collusion ot one of the mujaheddin organizations to this end. The text of the resolution was published in the 24 September issue of ■ "Afghanistan the Heart of Asia" newspaper.
a
a
a
i
a
8
                        Under the present conditions when, with the Grace of God Almighty, the jehad of the Muslim Afghan nation is nearing final victory and the Kabul
 32
OCfOBER-DECEMBERr 1991 AlfiliANJ[HA0                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
 communist regime, by loosing national credit and international prestige, is on the verge of a downfall and fresh hopes for the complete liberty of the oppressed nation and the establishment of a government of justice are high, there is talk of yet another intrigue to rob the mujaheddin of their sure victory and prevent the downfall of the Kabul regime and guarantee a share for the atheist Khalq and Parcham factions in the future political and social life of the country.                                                                •'
      This shameless plot is the conspiracy between a so-called "mujaheddin organization" and the Parcham and Khalq atheist factions led by Najib and Shahnawaz Tani for the establishment of a coalition government with them.
      The leaders of the Kabul regime had proposed the sharing qf power and a coalition government with the mujaheddin on several occasions in the past which were1 fortunately and categorically rejected by the mujaheddin leaders and commanders. The General Council of Mujaheddin Commanders, who are sure of the final mujaheddin victory and the complete defeat of the communists in Afghanistan, declare that:
 1.   Every conspiracy, coup or coalition with the communists are! contrary to the principles of. sacred religion Of Islam and treason to the aspirations of the martyrs and in our opinion totally rejected and condemned.
 2.   Any effort that may lead to the participation of the communists in the future of the country will not be supported by us and we reject it.
 3.   Any government not complying with Islamic principles and the will of the majority of the Afghan Muslim nation will not be acceptable to the Afghan
     ■ nation.-                          _
 4. . We will continue our jehad until the total downfall of the Kabul communist
      regime and the establishment of a true Islamic government in our country, Afghanistan, and will never permit that the fate of the.12-year armed jehad of our Muslim nation go in vain.
 5.   The General Council of mujaheddin commanders urges all mujaheddin organizations, ulama, jehadic battle fronts, the entire. Muslim ummah and the international friends of the Afghan jehad to prevent such unpleasant events and non-Islamic collusions and to allow, that the means of the Kabul regime downfall through jehad efforts until complete victory of the
    •> mujaheddin are prepared and implemented more thian ever.
OCTOBER-OECEMBERr 1991
IIANJfl
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 2. Officers of Ittehad-e-lslami
‘an
      Marx and' his followers, in order to lead the humanity to corruption, chose the path of one of his Satanic disciples, Lenin, who subjugated many oppressed nations,then under the Tzarist Russian empire by the usS of force and trampled their .moral and material assets under his communist ideology. He later devised his world devouring "Internationalism" plan, with the aim to bring under his colonial rule the entire humanity and usurp their rights, independence and human dignity and, by this means) swallowed other independent nations into communist imperialism, examples of which are still fresh in our memory. :
      As a first-step towards the realization of their world^devouring plan for reaching the warm waters and the rich resources at the Gulf, the communists recognized and. -selected elements of weak faith in the Afghan Muslim community and injected in them their ideology of atheism and infidelity. They were later coordinated as pioneers of the hellish K.G.B. Organization and nourished under the names of Khalq and Parcham.
      When their plan for occupying Afghanistan through diplomacy and communist coups failed ,and Kremlin planners admitted their diplomatic failure, they resorted to military aggression and wanted to realize their atheist and infidel aspirations by means of force and the use of most modern and sophisticated weaponryh During many long' years, they did not refrain from using force, intrigues, crimes, cruelties and atrocities against the defenseless but valorous Muslim Afghan nation. Similar to their prideful jehadic history which forced the British to kneel, this time again with limited force and arms which by no means matched the Russians, the Afghans launched their sacred jehad depending only on their: faith and the help of God. Almighty.and finally gave an irreparable blow to a military power in the course of the 13 years of jehad. The Afghans defeated a military power which was feared by great powers who were even ready to face it with nuclear technology. As a .res.ult of the heroic jehad of the Afghan mujaheddin, not only the communist super power was proved invincible but communist fortresses inside the Soviet Union and throughout its empire were shattered^to fragments.
              The Afghan jehad in its reality has been*void of extremism and the world is
  \.
 \,
 a witness to this fact.
      We, the mujaheddin officers, who have continued our jehadic obligations.
                                                         34
OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANJtHflO                             VOL.  5 NO. 1
not only regard ourselves in the ranks of our other mujahed brothers in              '
Afghanistan, but consider their jehad honors as our own and part and parcel of their efforts for the realization of the aspirations of our martyrs, widows, orphans and the aims of our prideful jehad efforts.
        .          ...                ;     .     .     -      ;    •  i       ;
     We want to draw world attention and those of the onlookers to the fact that it will not be possible for the mujaheddin not to have a say in their own destiny after 13 years of active jehad for establishing an Islamic government in the country which has cost it two millions of martyrs and handicaps.
     As the 5-point UN plan was debated in our meeting, it was apparent from the phrases used in.the text that even those involved in murders, crimes, atheists, the remnants of Brezhnev and the hellish K.G.B. i.ethe communists in Kabul as well as the onlookers of the 13 years of bloodshed and devastation have been entitled to take part in the future government of Afghanistan.                     ,
     We, therefore, decide as follows:.                     ■
1.   The UN 5-point plan does not correspond to the aspirations of the Afghan
     mujaheddin and is, therefore, rejected.                   /
2.   Whatever government formed without the consent and decision of.the mujahed-
     din will not be accepted by them. Taking orders from such a government would be tantamount to undoing the aspirations 6f the 13-year war and the blood of our martyrs.                                                ,
3.   The Afghan mujaheddin must urgently decide on the fate of the oppressed nation without any foreign influence.
4.   For this purpose with due regard to the gravity and emergency conditions as a result of the crumbling of the communist edifice and recent decisive mujaheddin blows throughout the country to the defeating enemy, urgent measures should be taken, through an emergency Shoora of the ahl-e-halwa aqd (men of wisdom) comprising mujaheddin, ulama and other parties concerned, for establishing an Islamic order and government.in Afghanistan,
5.   We support the political and jehadi.c stand of the IIA leadership in regard to the solution of the Afghan issue for the attainment of justice and the pleasure of Almighty God without any personal or organizational aim.
*
35
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGIIANVOL. 5 NO. 1
 3. Ulama, Commanders of Southwest

 EDITOR'S NOTE: Following. is the text of the joint declaration by, ulama and mujaheddin commanders of the south western region of Afghanistan adopted in *a meeting for studying the current situation in the country. The declaration was published in 4 November issue of Ittehad-e-Islami newspaper.
                    IN THE NAME OF ALLAH. HOST GRACIOUS. MOST MERCIFUL
       When the .atheist regime came into being. by the infidel Khalq and Parcha.m factions as a result of the tragic communist coup in April, 19>78, the religious community in Afghanistan in a verdict urged! the nation to resort to armed jehad against the puppet communist regime. They declared armed jehad against this regime as a religious obligation of. every one of the people of, Afghanistan and the ulama of the entire community of Islam in the wo^ld considered this verdict in conformity with prevailing condition and declared their solemen and whole hearted support for this verdict. Thus the scared jehad was launched in the Miiqlim, freedom loving, hepric and mujahed nation of Afghanistan with the arm to attaining the consent of Almighty God, the Islamic liberation of Afghanistan,.in accordance with Islamic demands and Islamic principles of sacred jehad for the establishment of . an Islamic leadership and genuine and- pure’ Islamic order-in the country.       '
       The first stages of the sacred jehad were hardly fully underway, when the murderers, i.e. the Kremlin leaders, got a shiver and panic and, without reviewing, the ■history of the mujahed heroic and martyrdom-loving Afghan nation for rendering sacrifices; deployed the blood-thirsty Red Army for the occupation of Afghanistan and put into power their lackeys- the Khalqis and the Parchamis- one after the other.. As a result, the peaceful Afghanistan was changed to ruins, over 1.5 million Afghans were martyred, over five million Afghans were, forced^ to migrate to Pakistan and Iran. Hundreds of thousands were disabled, a similar number were orphaned and widowed. Even today the bloodshed continues in the land’ of the oppressed people of Afghanistan 1 as the result of direct Russian intervention.
       But, due to God's help and support, the sacred jehad in Islamic Afghanistan reached such dimensions that not only did it. cause the tbtal defeat of the balatant and shameful Soviet aggression, but also buried atheism, communism and their barbaric atrocities for ever and throughout the entire world. Now that the mujahed and heoric people of Afghanistan, by shedding the blood of more than one million of their people, and crippling of hundreds, of thousands of their community,and by turning to orphans, and widows another hundreds Of thousands of their
  people defeated with the help of God this world devouring dragon and deceitful enemy, this very enemy is trying to bring into power its puppets through a joint or Coalition government. The only aim of frantic and shameful! aim of the
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AFGHANJFHAIl                              VOL. 5  NO. 1
  Russian and other forces of infidelity is to prevent the establishment of a mujaheddin government which is demanded by the mujaheddin and their Islamic leadership. Whereas the mujahed and heoric nation paid all the cost in order to •liberate the beloved and Islamic Afghanistan and, with the help of God Almighty, establish such a mujaheddin prevalent leadership which will be endowed with honesty, competence and political know-how and the aspirations of the martyrs of this Islamic nation are realized, for this reason we, the ulama and commanders of the .^south western region, with due regard to the present political situation, declare our firm stand as follows:1
  .1. 'We still consider the puppet Najib, his Watan Party and members of his regime as apostates and still consider as a religious obligation our jehad against them.                v   i
We consider the atheist Najib, his Watan Party and members of his atheist regime similar to other unislamic political parties and completely reject the establishment of a coalition government with them by the mujaheddin and we will continue our       jehad       against such a government until  the
establishment of an Islamic government, God willing.
We reject the 5-point UN Secretary General plan for the political solution of Afghanistan problem and consider it a major means for bloodshed in Afghanistan.                                          ,
We strongly reject any administration or government which may be imposed by foreigners against the sacred religion of Islam for preventing the realization of the sacred jehad objectives.
  5.   A delegation in the name of mujaheddin had gone to the UN sometime ago, to meet and consult the Russian Foreign Minister and other infidel powers for
      , the political solution of the Afghan issue. We regard this visit as a non-Islamic decision by aliens in regard to the political solution of the Afghan issue and for determining the future leadership and destiny (-of , Afghanistan) and, therefore, reject it.
  6.   Right now a delegation in the name of the mujaheddin is leaving for Moscow in order to discuss with the Russians and consult them about the solution of the Afghan issue and the destiny and future gf Afghan .leadership. We categorically reject their visit. Whatever decision they may take there Which may be against Islamic principles will be strongly rejected and considered inapplicable.
  7.   We strongly urge all mujaheddin organizations to create a firm unity among themselves. The ulama commanders and pious leaders of Afghanistan should
    , urgently form an Islamic hal-wa-Aqd (men of wisdom) council in accordance with the Islamic qualification so that it may determine the future leader-' ship for the Afghan nation based on Islamic principles.
37
OCTOBER-DECEMBER# 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
-e-


on

  EDITOR'S NOl'E: The following is the text of a pamphlet issued by the leader of IIAf Professor Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf under the title of "proposals put forward; by the world community in regard tor the solution of the Afghanistan issue and our stand," The pamphlet has been distributed by the Albunyan News Agency.
  • •
 '.V
 • • i
 :*
 • • • • «
 • • • • •
 .V
  f •
 i #

                     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST MERCIFUL, MOST GRACIOUS
      The objective of the jehad, which has been going on in the Afghanistan for the past 13-years, has been the establishment of a pure Islamic order and of course no Muslim in any corner of the world will dispute us on this.
      Specially those who have before this military jehad had resorted to Islamic activities for the establishment of an Islamic society and order, they had been considering this jehad as a great objective and still continue to do so.
      A\ person who resorts to Islamic activism for establishment of an Islamic order and society, or undertakes jehad, finds it compulsory to follow the principles and rules of jehad and refrains from deviating from the path of Islam in this regard.                                    ' .
     Therefore, any work done by us for executing the jehad or for solving the issue, we shohld heed Islamic principles, commands and discipline and even under the name of political expediency, we should always follow Islamic guidance and should not violate Islamic principles because there is no other interest or expediency other than Islam.
      On the basis of these remarks, the positions adopted by us until now, and the stands which we have taken towards the various proposals, have all, been in accordance to Islamic obligations and principles. Whatever Islam has allowed we have welcomed it and whatever Islam has not allowed we have said "no" to. it and have taken a position against it. On this basis, we Can say in short that in regard to the solution of Afghanistan issue and also in other issues, we have spoken with logic on the basis of our Islamic obligations arid responsibilities and to pray Almighty God to give us the success to do so in the future as well.
      Now we are presenting to the readers the various plans and proposals put forward by the world in regard to the solution of the Afghanistan issue and we are going to give them the right to judge to advise us whether to say "yes" br
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991            HfClllllflllWIII              VOL. 5 NO. 1
 "no to these proposals taking in view that we are Muslims.
 1.   SOLVING THE ISSUE THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS WITH COMMUNISTS OR INTRA-DIALOGUE,
 2.   ESTABLISHMENT OF A JOINT OR COLLECTIVE GOVERNMENT,
 3.   ESTABLISHMENT OF NEUTRAL GOVERNMENT, ' '
 4.   ESTABLISHMENT OF A BROADBASED GOVERNMENT
     '    . . ; ' ■ ■ ••    '; I.'   ’        I                1
 5.   HOLDING TALKS WITH RUSSIANS ABOUT THE FUTURE OF AFGHANISTAN.
      We have said "no" to all these proposals and now We are going to judge each one of them in accordance with Islamic principle in order to see whether it is possible to say "yes" to them in the light of Islamic rules and commands.
         1. SOLVING THE AFGHANISTAN ISSUE THROUGH NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE COMMUNISTS AND INTRA-DIALOGUES.
 . . >v                                           ' ■ •      .
      Many people have said in the past and they say now that Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, has sat with the pagans and infidels and have held talks with them and he has signed with them agreements and peace accords and,/ for instance, has reached, with the pagans the Hudaibiya Peace Accord and has signed agreement with the Ejarii Nazeer and Bani Quraiza of the Jewish community. Why then the IIA and Sayyaf say that they are not willing to sit down and hold talks with the communist? Do they refrain for what actually the Prophet, peace be upon him, and his Companions had already done?
      However, we have to regretfully hay those who argue in this manner, either their grasp of Shariat is very weak or they have not really understood the Afghanistan situation or that of the enemy during the '13-years of jehad and therefore they resort to unfounded conjectures. Neither can they make a parallel between the Islamic commands and the events which have taken place.
      Religious or the Shariat details in this connection are that infidels and pagans come under one category and apostates and atheist come under a different rule. Holding talks, reaching agreements, conducting business and establishing social relations with pagans and infidels is permissible. However, holding talks and reaching an understanding with them in regard to internal and domestic affairs of the Muslims and jehad is completely prohibited.
      But sitting, holding talks, and other relations with atheist and apostates are completely prohibited and banned in Islam. It is not permissible to accept repentance from an apostate and he is to be ^executed readily. However, an athiest could be urged to repent in three days and if he fails do* so, he too, will be executed and his wife will be separated from him and the two have no right to’live together.
      Therefore, those who are not allowed according to Islam to live and even if they are allowed to live, it is incumbant on the Islamic community to severe relations with them and has not allowed normal relationship with them, then on which basis we should give them the right to set with us and holdi talks about
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991  AI HllflNJIHAD                 ‘ VOL. 5 NO. 1
» the destiny of the country? If anyone can show us permission in this regard in (Aiy book or Islamic religious denominations- he should show it to gs.
                                 TWO KINDS OF COMMUNISTS
     (a)  Those ^who are actually infidels. With them holding talks and concluding agreements in ordinary matters and issues not related to internal and individual relationship of Muslim community is permissible.
        '•   • ••       '   • •   ' '   _ I " . ■ - - ;                      : ’; • • • ’
     (b)  Those communists who had been Muslims in the beginning but later have become infidels, they are either apostates or atheist and the Klialq, Parcham, Shola-e-Javid and other un-Islamic parties are all apostates or atheists, not only ordinary apostates and atheist, but by not considering it sufficient to turn back from Islam, they have also resorted to the propagation of atheism and infidelity among the people and have launched struggle against Islam and have martyred hundreds of thousands of Muslims just because they have been followers of Islam.
          We have said "no" in regard to sitting down and holding intra-Afghan dialogue with them. Now in the framework of Islam you should tell us whether we had the right to say "yes" or say "no" and whether this was permissible or non-permissible and those who tell us to solve this problem by holding talks%with the enemies, not only want to deviate us from Islamic path, but they also want to make us responsible for the massacre of thousands of people as a result of the intervention of the Red Army and violation of the honors of these people. Because, tomorrow the people will say if it was permissible to solve the issUe through negotiations, why talks were not proposed also during the rule of' Taraki, Amin and Babrak and why the issue was not solved through talks at that time and the country was destroyed and why the matter was put off for 13-years? And if this was not permissible at that .time, why.it is permissible now? Do you have the right to make impermissible permissible? What will be the answer.
                                 2. JOINT GOVERNMENT
          Some quarters have proposed to us the establishment of a joint government. We have said "no" to this also because, due to the reasons, we just mentioned, sitting together with the communist is not permissible and, thus, on*: which grounds are we allowed to let them participate with us in decision making bodies _ and in the government.
          Not only the communist, atheist and apostates, but ordinary infidels do not
     have the right to be enrolled in government posts and decision making bodies
** in an Islamic country and at the head of departments and Ministries under whom
     Muslims may work.. If somebody says that this is permissible, on the basis of.
     which book or authority or                         on the basis of  which  mujtahed (a person who is
     allowed to make new rules on the basis of old rules) is he talking with us. -We ■ . / are ready for debate.
          Some say right now let                         us take two or  three  of them and later we will
$ dismiss them. We say who has                         allowed us to do so and whether this is allowed and
     permissible? When enrolling of atheist, apostate and infidel is    not allowed in
40
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991            HIIiIuINlUttlU)                VOL.  5 NO. 1
         ■ , ' _ •'___ ;■ . ■ ________V      ■ ■
    an Islamic government, then neither one nor two or more of them can be enrolled. The Holy Quran says, "and never will God grant to the unbelievers a way over the believ'ers." (Sutas Nesa: Verse 141). It must, be remembered that thousands of drops of pure water in a pot can be diluted and i^ade dirty with two drops of dirty liquid and cannot be used either for drinking or for ablution.
         The establishment of ,an Islamic government is an Islamic obligation arjd it is not some special worldy affair. We have specific, instructions in this reqard. In the ranks of those who offer prayers- of millions of them-^ we cannot allowr ,a Sikh or Hindu to stand with us together. In this same manner we cannot allow the infidels to participate in the execution of the responsibilities of an Islamic government in the rank of those incharge. And if they are being employed somewhere it is only in some technical,and accounting matters as contractors but not as the head of offices.
                                3.  NEUTRAL GOVERNMENT
         We have rejected neutural government and we have done so due to several reasons and dimensions:  '
    (1) In neutfal government agreement pf the mujaheddin and their oponents, and making the establishment of a' government in an Islamic country contingent upon the consent of infidels are not permissible; specially those who legally have no right to live, how could they be given right to make their consent contingent for the establishment of the government in the country.
    (2) In a neutral government, reaching understanding and compromise and holding,
    indirect talks with the communist must take place. While in Islam not only this is not permissible, but time and again through, the mujaheddin organizations we have opposed this With consensus.                                         , -
    (3) Elements of the neutral government are known individuals and in the list
    prepared of these names, those who are wfell-known to us are included: most of them are people who are the cause of the destruction of the country and they have been the ones who have put an end to religion and present communist leaders were nourished in their laps and the majority of them are under the influence of, western culture  and ideas and do not consider Islam  proper  as a complete order
    for meeting the   needs of today's life and even the   majority of  them say that
    Islam has no relationship with economics. We are refraining from mentioning their other deviations because of our respect to their art of writing.
    (4) They have    declared, themselves neutral in the war     between Islam    and
    infidelity and whoever considers himself neutral in the war between Islam and infidelity, he. himself is a witness, for his infidelity. In such wars, men are grouped into two categories:
         The Holy Quran says:   "Believers fight for Allah and non-believers fight
         for the Satan" (Surah Neas: Verse 76).
    (5) In relation to the     , freedom of the country they     have   not felt  any
    responsibility and now they claim rights at a time when things have become
             " >                           41
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 fllulllINJiHAll                VOL.  5 NO. 1
    ready. They are the ones who have foresaken their jehadic obligations and have run away from the battle-field and are not' qualified, for the leadership of Muslims from the Shariat point of view.
    (6)  The destiny of the country should be determined by those and those are to be put in charge of the affairs' bf, the country who have fought and lalboured for its freedom and have shed their blood. "One who < has toiled, ought to reap the harvest". '
    (7)  A neutral government will not be able to hold power over two armed forces
    (the mujaheddin and communists) and it will be unable to restore security and stability.                                         . •                         \
    (8)  Neutral, government will be slave and puppet, of these satanic powers which have paved the way' for their establishment and right now too their efforts are continuing.
         We have started this jehad for the establishment of an Islamic order and' those people who have become known as neutrals have neither a proper understanding of Islam nor they can bring about Islam. Arid the one. who has not implemented Islam in his own personal life and environment, how can he implement Islam in the country,?             y
                              (4)   BROADBASED GOVERNMENT
         The broadbased   government which   the entire world insists upon us '     to
    establish it, tpo has been rejected by us and we have said "no" to it, because the purposes of the world community from a broadbased government, is a government in which all Muslim groups of Afghanistan participate. If we were to establish such a government, instead of 20> we might include 40 or 60 ministers in it. v'             '                            ,    ’
         Even if such an interim government were to be established it would have represented such a majority that no government in the world would, have represented this kind of majority. I, told the world to -recognize our government, they told us that our government was not broad-based. If we just refer to only .recent, history, w.e  will see nobody    a.sked Taraki. to       make , his government
    broadbased so they may recognize it, while Taraki was representing only five thousand Khalqis from the 18 million people of Afghanistan and this is something that the Khalqis themselves have admitted.
         Although everybody knew that Taraki and his government did not represent the people of Afghanistan ahd \all members of government were really members of the     Khalq band and enemies of the    religion and honour of the    people   of
    Afghanistan, and while his government came into power as a result of a bloody coup and its member were isolated and rejected individuals, all recognized that government readily. We, who have rendered 1.5 martyrs, five million refugees and 95% .    of the people support us and    fight against a     government which   is
    established under the protection of alien tanks, are told, that our government is not broadbased so we cannot recognize it.                                '
         It is thus quite clear £hat by a broadbased government they mean an
       ■ ;■ ■                              42
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 R[i)HJ)NJIHAfl                             VOL. 5  NQ. 1
      i __ _j   ; ; __ - . j . • . .       1      . •. , •                 - • ~ v •_ .
    infidel government. In other words, until we take the infidels with us, nobody, will recognize us. If we could say "yes" from the Shariat point of view to such a broadbased government they should show to me the Islamic authority supporting their views.                                      -            ’
                         (5)  GOING OF DELEGATION TO RUSSIA
                   . ' . ; ■; ’ . •
         We have also Rejected the departure of a delegation to Moscow and have not
    participated in it and if somebody tells us that sitting down with the Russians
    is not impermissible and why have we not agreed with it, we say that we have
    never said that talking with the Russians is not permited. However, we have
    rejected these talks due to the following considerations:
                       ' • \ '
    A. Those who sit with 'somebody else for reaching an understanding should
         first among themselves reach an understanding and agree on a joint agenda and accept a single solution,leaders and non-leaders should be'known and they should have a specific plan, while this has not been done in this case.•                           •                  - -
    b. This has been done under the American pressure, because the US is afraid if the Kabul government falls in mujaheddin hands, an Islamic government will be established there and the United States cannot tolerate the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the obvious reason for which is that, despite the fact that United, States announced its support of our jehad in the first years and apparently supported the jehad, but when the Russians were defeated and forced to retreat and the mujaheddin government was formed, the American not only not admitted existence           this  government but prevented others also to do so. Ju£t
         because a mujaheddin government maiy not be formed in Kabul in a natural manners and when the Russian no longer could supply the Najib regime, the United States undertook the task of supply and supporting that regime. Because, otherwise the Muslims would have come into power and the mujaheddin would haVe assumed the government. Therefore, the US put pressure on holding talks with the Russians because they know as a result of talks and 'understanding the mujaheddin and communists will not accept each other and agreement will be reached in a natural way "on a third party and that third party will be comprised of people who have been trained in the laps Of the US and Europe with Western mentality.
              Therefore,, as a result of an agreement, the Russian puppet government will step ,down but an Islamic government is prevented to assume power. But an American type government will be established and now in reality .1 it seems that the two sides have agreed on the establishment of a neutral government and elements of this government will be appointed on the basis of the agreement of the two sides and we have already presented our reasons for rejecting it.
                           C. We refused to go to Russia because even if it is true that reaching an understanding with the Russians is not impermissible,-' but, if -the ' ' determination of the destiny of the future ; of Muslims and the future government is made contigent upon their agreement and consultation, this is
                                                         43
OCTOflER-DECEMBER, 1991 AffilUlffJ(KA0                           VOL.  5 NO. 1
          completely impermissible, and if some one claims this to. be permissible he should bring his reasons even if they are. based on indirect quotations. If we have to reach now an understanding about the destiny of our country with the Russians, what is to become of our freedom? What will happen to our sacrifices? Where will be our honour and our line of Shariat?       7
              Muslims might have sit down in the course of history with the infidel' and* might have signed agreements with them but nobody can say that the Muslims discussed with the infidels the internal issues of their country and gave the right of vote and opinion to the infidels about determining the destiny of their country.
                            D. If the agreement of Russians and Americans or some other infidel country ' is to be a condition for the establishment of a government of our choice for solving our issue, and if we are, seek their consent, surely we would ' loose the pleasure and consent of God and trample religious principles and
        ■ obviously we cannot hold fast to Islam.
              "The Holy Quran says:   "You will hot be able to earn the pleasure of
        /the Jews and the Cristians until you follow their religion".(Surah Baqara: Verse 120)                                                              ^
              God forbid, instead of establishing Islam, We will fall in the trap of another nation and as ijt could be seen. that in Moscow, as a result of an understanding with the Russians, some dangerous agreements■ have been signed:                                        .     ,
        . 1) The agreements reached between the Russians and communist governments had sold Afghanistan completely and the right to abrogate or reaffirm these agreements have neither been given to the mujaheddin nor to the government which according to them is to be formed as a result of elections. But this right has been given to the interim government and the interim government is a neutral government staffed with the Russian and American slaves and this government can reaffirm these agreements and legalize them.
          2)   It was decided to hold general elections in which Muslims and infidels
              will have right for equal participation so that the political and legal prestige of the communists may be restored.                . ■
          3)   The elections will be held under the supervision of the UN and it is to be said with regret that perhaps this agreement has been signed on
             . behalf of the mujaheddin and this in itself is a big guarantee for the' success of non-Islamic elements•           *
        ■ 4) In Afghanistan elections will not be held.among political parties, but
              they will be held between political armies and for supervising these elections too armed forces would be needed. Holding of elections, under the UN supervision at the same time would mean that, under the pretext of security, international forces will come to Afghanistan and this time they will officially turn Afghanistan into^a colony.  ^
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 fllGIIAKJ[HA0                            VOL. 5 NO. 1
        5)   We consider contrary to Islam and contrary to our Afghan traditions going to the home of enemy, the defeated enemy who is the enemy of our religion and honor and still its paws and teath are sirieard with the blood Of our martyrs.
        6)   Another big objective of the US is to show that the Afghanistan issue could not be solved through jehad but through the American and the UN efforts and to tell the people that, despite the eXistance of present forces, the success of a jehadic movement is impossible.
        So you may notice yOurself and make Islamic judgement as to which one of these proposals and plans, we could have said "yes"?
   ’     The efforts now undertaken by the UN under US leadership and they have put
   the friendly countries of this jehad on the front line, is aimed at changing the friendship which has emerged among these nations to enemity and to prevent the unity and brotherhood of Islamic ummah and the refugees would not return to their country happy and tomorrow, when their jehad and sacrifices are wasted, they would blame their friends for this.
                                      OUR PLAN AND PROPOSALS
        But if someone asks us what is our solution and plan? We say that our plan is clear and is in accordance with the Shariat, common sense and political realities. Our plans says that jehad is aimed at upholding the Word of God and the Word of God can be upheld when a pure and complete Islamic government is established by the Muslims. If non-Muslim elements are involved in the formation of this order or if non-Muslim elements are members of this order, we cannot say this to be an Islamic government and in it the Word of God cannot be upheld. Common sense, logic, justice and fairness also say whoever has rendered the.sacrifice, is entitled to benefit form its result. The righ of adminisration of this country is of those who have shed their blood and sweat. There are people who,as a result of coup overnight, rule their nations for many years. However, for the mujaheddin, after their jehad of 13-years in their own country, there is no opportunity to hold the reign of a two year interim government.
        Political realism also demands that the mujaheddin should rule during the interim period because the main responsibility of, the interim government is restoration of , peace and stability. A week and neutral government will not be able to administer such an armed and battle-trained nation and until a pure arjd powerful government     of mujaheddin is  established, the possibility of securing .
   peace and stability   will not exist and if both groups of enemy are made partners
   in power Or they remain -armed under      Other powers, in that   case a samll in-
   cident will be sufficient to annihilate the remaining of the people. Now mines, secutity belts and other defense measures are preventing this, but at that time such measures too will not exist. Thus, taking into consideration the truth and political realities, the proper way to solve* the Afghanistan issue would be that the communist should lay down their arms, surrender to the mujaheddin, repent       from their past    deeds and then they   should apologize
   in accordance with the Islamic principles and Afghan traditions and the interim government should be handed over to the mujaheddin so that they may bring peace
                                                        45
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
   and stability in the country and through a powerful Islamic council pave the way for the establishment of a stable Islamic government through elections.
       , If some one asks how such a united' mujaheddin government could' be es.tab' lished, our plan is:
         Either the (1987) Consultative Councul should be recalled and members of that Council are already known# or a Shoora of hal wa aqd of ulama, members of jehad organization and mujaheddin leaders should be convened on the basis of qualifications so that.this shoora may form the interim government and continue until the formation of the new shoora..
         Our friends should know that the government of mujaheddin is for their good -and the good of the Afghans and the entire Islamic ummah both in this world and in the Hereafter and governments other than the mujaheddin government will be the puppet government of the Russians and Americans and they will rule under., the shadow 6f their blessings arid these governments will be , a headache for our neighbours and the entire ummah and this battle-trained nation will be wrongly used against our neighbours and Islam.
         If there is too much pressure on our friends and they cannot stand next to us, at least they should not hold the front line of the efforts undertaken for nullifying our jehad and sacrifice.
         Our path is clear. We urge the formation of an Islamic government by the mujaheddin. If God has willed for us, this.will be a matter of our• happiness both in this world and Hereafter and if we fail, then at least until we are brought up to the presence of Almighty God, we will remain firm on our course*

            EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of a joint commnique issued 14 October by the four mujaheddin organizations: HI A (Hekmatyar). HIA (Khales)» JIA and IIA. The text has appeared in the 8 October issue of the Shahadat newspaper.
         Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani leader of the JiA, Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales leader of HIA (Khales), Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf the IIA leader and Eng. Qutbuddin Helal Chairman of the Political . Committee of HIA ( Hekmatyar ) held1 several meetings to assess the latest sitautiort in regard to the Afghanistan issue, evolving further solidarity and alliance among the' mujaheddin leaders and foiling international collusion and intrigues. They agreed that the realization pf . the lofty jehad, ideals and rendering ineffective imposition of alien decisions necessitated mobilization, of jehad, forces and their sincere cooperation. It was in view of this requirement that extensive contacts and
            \ ■ • ’ .. -
                                                                             ' ' 46
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 VOL, 5 NO. 1
meetings were held with the commanders, the mujaheddin and the refugees both inside and outside the country.
      It was also decided that other resistance forces, which sympathise with the objectives of our sacred jehad, should also be contacted.
      We hope that the aspirations of our oppressed nation will be realized by armed jehad in the shortest possible time through the whole-hearted and sincere efforts of the mujaheddin.
 .V
 • •
 • • •
 • t
  • •
 I
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is the text of a resolution by the High Commission of the General Council of Mujaheddin Commanders adopted at the conclusion of a 3-day meeting for preventing divisions among the mujaheddin9 future plans' for, armed and security forces and joint efforts, The text was published in the 27 November issue of the De'Jehad Hindara newspaper.

      As the Afghan heroic and Muslim nation caused the*,defeat and withdrawal of the Russian occupation forces and the downfall of the Russian empire at the cost of their blood, now due to recent political changes at regional and the international levels and their impact on the Afghan issue, it is the need of the hour that our nation maintain its unity and stability and follow the situation with foresightedness and with a view to fullfilling the aspirations of the majority of the oppressed nation.
      The approval or disapproval by individual mujaheddin commanders of the sjplit created among the present political leadership regarding the Afghan problem will lead to dangerous consequences.. To prevent such a trend, it is necessary to devise a logical and unified policy for the future which may prove beneficial for the people of Afghanistan.
      It is also necessary, right from now# to evolve a joint political strategy for the transfer of power from the Kabul atheist regime, the establishment of an Islamic order and maintenance of peace and security in the country in order to avoid split and differences among the commanders who are the real forces fbr implementing any poligy. Otherwise the country might be led to civil war.. Necessary plans must Also be drawn for the armed and security forces in future Afghanistan. .  '        '                   :         ■
      For attracting and encouraging foreign assistance for the,reconstruction of Afghanistan it is imperative that mujaheddin commanders should provide plans and
                                        ' 47 ; '                                  ~
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991         HUNJHJMI                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
 exert joint efforts. The establishment of a representative council consisting of elected commanders, ulama, tribal chiefs and pious Intellectuals also requires serious efforts. Therefore, the meeting agreied on the following:
 1.  The third meeting of the General Commanders' Council, to be attended by important commanders from all over Afghanistan, be convened within the next few week's.;        :
 2.   10"-point agenda was prepared for the proposed all Commanders’ meeting with due regard, to present conditions and future plans.
 3.   Delegations were formed for taking the agenda* with them to different parts of the country for consultation with the commanders concerned and their participation in the proposed third meeting.
 Paktia,         Paktika Military Council
a
 EDITOR1 S NOTE: Following is  the declaration of the  Paktia and
 Paktika mujaheddin Council regarding amnesty to the residents of Gardaiz in case of their surrender • It has been adopted from September-October, 1991 issue of the Manba-ul-Jehadjournal• ,
d
o
                        IN THE NAME OF ALLAH. MOST MERCIFUL, MOST GRACIOUS
      To the military officers residing in Gardaiz, civil officials and the besieged and enslaved residents of the city:
      We, the guardians of Islam should like to communicate our views to you regarding the following points:
      Make use of the mujaheddin general amnesty offer announced earlier. Whoever, you are: soldier, officer,' civil official or a permanent resident seek the mujaheddin refuge, your life and property will be safe. Whoever surrenders to the mujaheddin prior to resorting to fight will be granted amnesty. But those who take to fighting in their futilei attempt to harm the
                      1* .              t
 mujaheddin or continue to shed blood will eventually feel sorry and regretful* Those who are unaware should take the defeat in Khost as a warning. Those who have not used the mujaheddin general amnesty in the past had done so only to regret it later. We therefore insist that you should use this golden opportunity to your own advantage. Now that the Russians in Moscow are condemning the deeds of Lenin, it would be really a great pity that you should still succum to the atrocities of the atheist and puppet „Najib and subject your Children and wives to pains and sufferings. Do you still wish Najib, the Russian puppet and a slave of Lenin, to succeed?
      At the end we like to repeat:      Have  mercy upon  your  children and  the
                                                           48
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       (UNJlHflfl               VOL. 5 NO. 1
   women-folk; do not betray the Afghan nation any longer; decide for a comfortable living right now.
 HEIA         (Mansoor) Ulama Condmn
IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, MOST GRACIOUS, MOST MERCIFUL.
        Since the murder of a Muslim by another is unlawful in Islam, and, since murderer has been promised the agonies of the Hell, therefore Muslims believing in Dooms Day arid the promise of the hell, wiil never resort.to such a crime.. The Quran says:  "If a man kills intentionally, his recompense is hell, to abide
   there for ever." (Surah Nesa: Verse 93) Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, has said "it is easier for God Almighty to annihilate the world than to kill a Muslim". It is obvious from these quotations that those who murder a Muslim are the ones who do not believe in resurrection and are followers of the Satan (Evil). If the enemies of Islam wish to change the course of our jehad by resorting to   murder innocent Muslims, they must bear in mind        that  God is
   watching them  and       shall never forgive them and shall punish them when the day
   Comes. God has addressed the tyrants arid cruel in these words: "Think not that God does not   heed    the deeds of those who do wrong. He but gives  them respite
   against a Day  when the eyes will fixedly stare in horror, they running      forward
   with necks out stretched, their hands uplifted, their gaze returning not towards them, and their hearts a (gasping) void". (Surah Ibrahim: Verse 42-43)
        Thus the oppressors will eventually be punished no matter how long it. may take. It is for this reason that God does not love the tyrants and shall punish them accordingly.
        On the contrary, God is on the side of the oppressed, Mohammad Amin Ferotan, the Deputy Chief of HEIA (Mansoor),. has been a great mujahed and the attempt on his life has been Carried out by tyrants and enemies of Islam. Therefore, we, the ulama of,the Harakat-e-Enqilab-e-Islami Afghanistan, consider the defense of the oppressed our religious obligation and demand that those involved in the act be punished in. accordance with the dictates of Islam and the oppressed be protected by all possible means.
        Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, has said: VGod will curse that who sees cruelty being committed but does not help the oppressed". According to the
                                                         49
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991  HffillllN Jlllllll            VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Hadith, it is the obligation to every Muslim to defend the oppressed and to foil all intrigues planned by KHAD and KGB agents.
 X
 • c
 X
 • '
 *■ •
on Argnamstan issue
EDITOR'S NOTEi The following is the text of a resolution on "the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security" adopted by the UN General Assembly 5 Decern-ber, 1991•

 THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
 HAVING CONSIDERED the item entitled "The situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security”..
 RECALLING its resolutions 43/20 of 3 November 1988, 44/15 of 1 November 1989 and 45/12 of 7 November 1990.
 REAFFIRMING the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the obligation of all States to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of any State.
 REAFFIRMING ALSO the inalienable right of all peoples to determine their own . form of government and to choose.their own economic, political and, social system free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.                                                        '
 GRAVELY CONCERNED at the situation in Afghanistan, which resulted from the ,violation of principles of, the Charter of the United Nations and of the recognized norms of inter-State conduct. \
 NOTING the conclusion at Geneva, on 14 April 1988, of the Agreements on the Settlement of the Situation Relating to Afghanistan, and the completion of the withdrawal of foreign troops in accordance with those Agreements,
 AWARE of the continuing concern of the international community at the sufferings of the Afghan people a'nd the magnitude of the social and economic, problems posed to Pakistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran by the presence on their soil of millions of Afghan refugees.
 DEEPLY CONSCIOUS of the urgent need for a comprehensive political solution of the situation in respect of Afghanistan.
                                         50                    ,
 OCTOBER-DECEMBERf 1991 fi[Il!IANJtHAO                            VOL.  5 NO- I
 CONSCIOUS that a successful final political settlement of the Afghanistan problem would have a favbrable impact on the international situation and provide an impetus for the resolution of other acute regional conflicts?
 EXPRESSING ITS"APPRECIATION to the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative for their efforts to bring about peace and security.
 SUPPORTING .the statement of the Secretary-General on Afghanistan of 21 May 1991.
 TAKING NOTE of the report of the Secretary-General and the status of the process of political settlement. .
 1.  EMPHASIZES the /importance of, the Agreements on the Settlement of the Situation Relating to Afghanistan, hereinafter referred to as the "Geneva Agreements", concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988,under United Nations auspices, which constitute an important step towards a comprehensive political solution of the Afghanistan problem.
 2. EXPRESSES ITS DEEP APPRECIATION to the Secretary-General and his Personal
 Representative for their constant efforts to achieve a political solution of the Afghanistan problem.                                                   \
 3. CALLS FOR the scrupulous respect for and faithful 'implementation of the
 Geneva 'Agreements by all parties concerned who should fully abide by their letter and spirit.              \
 4. CALLS UPON all parties concerned to promote actively search for ways.towards
 a political solution, acceptable to the Afghan people, on the basis of. principles contained in the statement of the Secretary-General on Afghanistan of 21 May 1991?                  '                 .
 5.  REITERATES that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence arid non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan. is; essential for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem.
 6. REAFFIRMS the right Of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and t° choose their economic, political and social system free from outside intervention/ subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever;
 7.  CALLS UPON all parties concerned to work urgently for the achievement of a comprehensive political solution, the cessation of hostilities and the creation of the necessary conditions of peace and normalcy that would enable the Afghan refugees to return voluntarily to their homeland in safety and honor.
 8.  EMPHASIZES the need for ah early start of the intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment, through democratic procedures acceptable, to the Afghan people, including free and fair elections, of a brOad-based government to ensure the broadest support and immediate participation of all segments of the Afghan people.
 9. CALLS UPON all parties concerned to exert every effort to promote* a
 51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flIGIIflMJIHIlfl                         VOL. 5  NO. 1
 political settlement acceptable to the Afghan people in order to bring to an end the protracted conflict that has prevailed in Afghanistan for the past several years.
 10. REQUESTS the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative to continue to encourage and facilitate the early realization of a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva Agreements and of the present resolution.
 11. EXPRESSES ITS APPRECIATION for the efforts of the pnited Nations High Commissioner for Refugees aimed at providing humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and facilitating their Voluntary return, and appeals to the parties concerned to take all necessary measures to ease their lot.
 12. RENEWS ITS APPEAL to all States and national and international organizations to continue to extend humanitarian relief assistance with a view to alleviating the hardship of the Afghan refugees, in coordination with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 13. EXPRESSES ITS APPRECIATION for the efforts of the Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan and calls upon' all States to provide to the Coordinator adequate financial and material resources for the purposes of achieving the speedy repatriation and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees, as well as for the economic and social reconstruction of the country.
 14. REQUESTS the Secretary-General to keep Member States and the Security Council informed of progress towards the implementation of the present resolution and to submit to the General Assembly•at its forty-seventh session a report on the situation in Afghanistan and on progress achieved in the implementation of the Geneva Agreements and the political settlement relating to Afghanistan.
 15. DECIDES to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-seventh session’ the item entitled "The situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security".
                                             52
OCTOBER - DECEMBER f 1991 flfClMH JtHllll VOL. 5 NO. 1
Text of UN Secretary General Report on A fghanistan
 45/12, which was adopted without a vote on 7 November 1990. In that resolution,        jj
 the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to keep, Member States and         • |
 the Security Council informed to progress towards the implementation of the resolution and to submit to the Assembly at its forty-sixth session a report on the situation in Afghanistan and on progress achieved in the implementation of the Agreements on the Settlement of the Situation Relating to Afghanistan,
 1/ concluded at Geneva on 14 April 1988 (hereafter referred to as the Geneva, Accords), and the political settlement relating'to Afghanistan.
 2. I have reported regularly to the General Assembly and the Security Council
 on the progress in the implementation of the Geneva Accords and the political settlement relating to Afghanistan (A/43/720-S/20230, A/44/661-S/20911, S/2-0465  ,
 and A/45/635-S/21879).
                , ' ■ ■ ( - . .
 3. In paragraph 9 of its resolution 45/12, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General and his Personal Representative to continue to encourage and facilitate the early realization of a comprehensive settlement in Afghanistan in accordance with the provisions of the Geneva Accords’ and of the resolution.
 A.   THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL IN AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN
 4. ^The Office of the Secretary-General' in Afghanistan and Pakistan (OSGAP),
 which I established on 15 March 1990, assists me in my efforts towards a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan. It is headed by my Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Benon Sevan. It is organized into two small headquarters units:      one in Islamabad, with a suboffice in
 Peshawar, and one in Kabul.                                   '              „
 5. The Military Advisory Unit of OSGAP, comprised of 10 military advisers, one each from Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Fiji, Ghana, Ireland, Nepal., Poland and Sweden, provides the Personal Representative of the Secretary-General with the military advice required to assist him in the implementation of the responsibilities entrusted to the Secretary-General. The military officers serving as military advisers are detached temporarily, with the concurrence of
                                         53
    OCTOBER-PECEMBER, 1991            MfillllHJIM                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
    their respective Governments, from existing United Nations operations, namely, the. United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). The Military Advisory Unit is responsible for providing military expertise, as required; maintaining a continued assessment of the security situation in Afghanistan; and elaborating and updating plans for military support to a possible increased future United Nations involvement in Afghanistan. The military advisers are organized into two small units in Islamabad and Kabul, with some of them rotating between Islamabad and Peshawar. The organizational arrangements for OSGAP are essential for remaining in constant touch with all segments of the Afghan society and being kept informed of the complex political and military reality if my mandate is to be carried out.
    6. I would like to express my appreciation to the two host Governments, namely, the Republic of Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, for their support and cooperation as well as for providing the necessary assistance in ensuring the security and safety of OSGAP and other United Nations personnel. I also wish to express my appreciation to the two Guarantor Governments, namely the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the United States of America, as well as all other Governments - for their continued support and cooperation. In addition „I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere appreciation to the .Governments that have been providing military advisers to OSGAP. I also thank the civilian staff and military advisers of OSGAP for their outstanding performance under very difficult conditions.
                     B.   VOLUNTARY RETURN OF THE REFUGEES
    7. With regard to the implementation of the third instrument of the Geneva
    Accords, namely, the Bilateral Agreement between the Republic of Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the Voluntary Return of Refugees, OSGAP cooperated closely with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner f,or Refugees (UNHCR)i The differences between the two parties to the Accords regarding the interpretation of article IV of the third instrument have continued to prevent the establishment of the mixed commissions envisaged therein.                                           '
    8. Although it has not yet been possible to establish the formal mechanism envisaged in the Geneva Accords, UNHCR, in close cooperation with the World Food Program (WFP) and the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan (UNOCA) has continued to support the voluntary return of refugees who continue to repatriate despite the unsettled conditions in their country. The voluntary repatriation project, which commenced in July 1990 on an experimental basis, has been continued and, expanded duiing 1991. By the end of September 1991, some 34,000 families, representing about 170,000 individuals, had exchanged their ration books for cash and wheat given to subsidize their return to Afghanistan.
    9. Increased monitoring in the refugee camps., at the borders, and to the extent possible, inside Afghanistan confirms that a substantial number of' the
                                                54
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfflllfllf JiHIlll               VOL. 5 NO. 1
    refugees receiving repatriation grants are indeed returning permanently to Afghanistan. Depending on the availability of funds, UNHCR plans to continue the project through 1992. Throughout 1991 UNHCR, in cooperation with WRP, has also provided foo<3 and transportation to an estimated 30,000 of the 62,000 Afghans who chose to return through transit hostels located in Herat, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kabul and Jalalabad. Although most returness are expected to continue to make their own transportation arrangements, experience has shown the usefulness of these hostels and subsidized commercial transport for families travelling long distances through unfamiliar and often dangerous regions. UNHCR plans to extend assistance to another six to eight hostels located on major transportation routes in anticipation of increased numbers of returnees during 1992.
    10.  The voluntary and safe return of the refugees is of critical importance in
    the context of a peaceful solution to the Afghanistan problem. However, until conditions allow them to repatriate in safety Or until the circumstances that led them to become refugees cease to exist,. UNHCR considers that those who elect not to repatriate must continue to receive international protection and assistance in accordance wi^h their needs. The nature and level of this assistance is planed so as to ensure that refugees are neither dissuaded from repatriating for purely economic considerations nor forced by such considerations to return to areas where they fear for their safety. UNHCR will continue to reinforce its efforts to. assist those who wj.sh to repatriate even in the prevailing security situation, and to prepare for large-scale return once developments in Afghanistan allow all refugees the possibility to.repatriate in safety.                                                               '
    11.  Central to United Nations efforts to encourage the voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees is the creation of conditions inside Afghanistan that would allow returnees to quickly start a new life in a country that has seen the destruction of almost every basic service and amenity.
                C.  HUMANITARIAN AND ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS RELATING TO AFGHANISTAN
    12.  In paragraph 12 of its resolution 45/12, the General Assembly called upon all States to provide to the Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs Relating to Afghanistan adequate financial , and material resources for the purposes of achieving ths speedy repatriation and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees, as well as for the economic and social resonctruction of the country.
    13.  In December 1990, I reluctantly agreed to the request of Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan to be relieved of his responsibilities as the Coordinator of Humanitarian and Economic Assistance programs Relating to Afghanistan, a post which he served with distinction since his appointment in May 1988. I would like to put on record my sincere appreciation for his tireless efforts in coordinating the emergency relief and rehabilitation program Of. the United Nations system in Afghanistan, known as Operation SALAAM.
            ' 7 , ' .... ' , ‘ t 1 . : 1
    14.  From 1 January 1991, in addition to his functions as my Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Benon Sevan assumed the responsibilities for the overall direction and administration of Operation SALAM.
          '                                  55                       '
       OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 j|[G||jlNJMAfl                                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
       15. With no immediate end in sight to the conflict in Afghanistan# as well as
       with developments and compelling humanitarian needs in other parts of the world, there are signs that the international community ha!s become increasingly immune to the war in Afghanistan and the suffering of the Afghan people who desperately need international assistance, now more than ever. Increasingly abandoned and forgotten and threatened by further reductions in humanitarian assistance, the average Afghan has understandably reached the point of despair.       ■ < '
       16. This trend is reflected in the reduction of funding for Operation SALAM, which led my Personal Representative, in June 1991, to cancel, abandon or scale down 57 projects with a total cash value of $US 31 million, in such essential fields , as rehabilitation of agriculture, immunization of children, education, nutrition, the disabled and mine clearance. Even after these cuts from the original cash requirement of $US 136 million for 1991, an additional $US 26 million in cash was still required^ along with substantial in-kind contributions, including 15,000 metric tons of wheat and other urgently needed food items. A substantial portion of the pledges made to Operation SALAM was in the form of in-kind contributions. Regrettably, the deliveries of such pledges have lately become sporadic at best.
       17. Despite the severe budgetary constraints faced by the United Nations system in Afghanistan, work by the various agencies and programs has continued. The World Food Programme (WFP) has distributed over 60,000 MT. of food commodities. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), has provided 6,800 MT of seeds and fertilizer as well as over half a, million fruit and poplar saplings. In my report to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session (A/45/635-S/21879, para.14) I said that the serious problem of locust and sun pest, causing massive losses to farmers in the northern provinces, was being addressed and that this year it was expected that large quantities of grain could be rescued. I am pleased to be able to report that, as a result, of the crop-protection measures taken, there have been significant improvements over last year's harvest. In addition, over 1 million livestock have been vaccinated during the current year, while 2,750 kilometers Of irrigation Channels have been rehabilitated.
       18. One of the largest activiti.es of Operation SALAM concerns mine-clearance and related activities, which is administered directly by UNOCA, a special task not within the mandate of any particular? United Nations agency or t program. During the first half of the current year, a further quarter of a million Afghan men, women and children received basic mine awareness training, bringing the total to over lialf a million since the inception of the program. At the same time, 1,200 Afghans are employed in the United Nations-funded mine clearance program, which concentrates on clearing mines and other unexploded ordnance from key access roads, villages, irrigation channels and agricultural land.
       19. Considering the, vast  number of                mines in Afghanistan, and the relatively
       limited resources available; the United Nations involvement in mine clearance is modest at best. Once peace is brought                        about, it is my  hope that the
       international community will fully support the mine clearance program for Afghanistan. Until then,   however,                 it is  essential that the current United
       Nations program in mine    clearance continues to receive                 the same level of
                                                  56
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 MGIIANiHIKIU                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
     funding:  $US 18 million.                                 ’
     20. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) continues to play a major role in many aspects of rehabilitation work. Commendable efforts are also being made by other specialized agencies and programs of the United Nations system: the International Labor Organization (ILO), the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), UNDP Office for Project Services (UNDP/OPS), the United Nations International Drug Control Program (UNIDCP), the United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS), the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM), and the United Nations Volunteers Program (UNV), which is involved with most of the agencies and programs concerned.
     21.  Operational constraints continue to be experienced due to political uncertainties arid the precarious security situation. It has often been difficult for United Nations personnel to have free access to areas to which assistance was to be provided, since they frequently need to cross zones under the control i of different authorities, where aid commodities or vehicles haye been hijacked," and they themselves are liable to be kidnapped. In this regard, I would like to pay a special tribute to the brave and dedicated efforts of all United Nations personnel, as well as those of the non-governmental organizations with which the United Nations has been working v'ery closely- in bringing United Nations humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people, often at great risk to their personal safety.
     22.  During the current year, inter-agency cooperation has improved and there is a greater direct involvement by the agency personnel. Inter-agency cooperation was also well reflected in the response to the severe earthquake and floods which struck Afghanistan in February 1991. All agency and program personnel participating in Operation SALAM worked closely with the Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Coordinator (DNDRO).
     23.  Further, during the current year, UNOCA has divested itself of all
     operational responsibilities which fall within- the.mandate of other Agencies or programs, concentrating instead on co-ordinating the activities undertaken within the United Nations system on behalf of the Secretary-General, with the exception Of administering the mine-clearance program for reasons .given in           *
     paragraph 20 above. UNOCA has also streamlined its staff and has shifted, its emphasis to the field. A further adjustment of staff is in progress.
                                                                                  . . . <*
     24.  As encouraging signs emerge on the political front, it is more essential
     than ever that the international community continue to sustain its efforts on the humanitarian side. Well-designed rehabilitation projects provide the Afghan people with an economically viable alternative to war, and will provide an additional impetus to the ongoing peace process. I therefore appeal to all States to commit new resources to assist the Afghan people in their hour of desperate need.                                  ^                                    ^
     25.  I welcome the fact that in their joint statement issued in Moscow, oh 13
                                                    57
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991     MflMNJIHAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
      September 1991, announcirig their agreement to cut off arms supplies to all Afghan sides, the Governments of the United States and the USSR have also reiterated their commitment to support an international humanitarian assistance effort to promote the prompt repatriation of refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan.
            D.   REPORTS TOWARDS THE REALIZATION OF A COMPREHENSIVE
                                    POLITICAL SETTLEMENT
      26. In my report to the General Assembly at its forty-fifth session
      (A/45/635-S/21879, paras. 24-36), I provided an account of my efforts towards the realization of | a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan, pursuant to my mandate under,General Assembly resolution 44/15 of 1 November 1990.    '
      27.  Pursuant to paragraph 9 of General Assembly reoslution 45/12, I further intensified my efforts to encourage all segments of the Afghan people, the two parties, the two guarantors of the Geneva Accords as well as the Governments of the neighbouring and other countries to Work towards a comprehensive political settlement in Afghanistan. I have also initiated a series of intensified consultations through my Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Berion Sevan, who has travelled extensively during the period Under review, shuttling between the capitals concerned.
      28. Since the adoption of                                   the General Assembly resolution 45/12, I have had
      several discussions with the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Afghanistan, Mr, Abdul Wakil,. and as recently as September 1991, with Prime                                      Minister
      Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, in New York. Mr. Sevan has maintained regular contact with the authorities in Kabul. He has continued almost on a monithly basis to hold lengthy and substantive discussions with President Najibullah, Prime Minister Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil and other senior officials of the Government. He has also                                     maintained regular contacts with leaders of
      opposition groups and others inside Afghanistan, including Prof. Mohammad Asghar of the National Salvation Society *
      29. In September, I had                                     the opportunity to meet in Tehran with    a joint
      delegation of three opposition groups, led by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of, the Afghan National Liberation Front (Jebha-e-Nejat-?e-Melli Afghanis-tan, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (Mahaz-e-Melli-Islami Afghanistan), both based in Peshawar, and Hajato-Islam Rehmatullah Murtazavi, leader of the Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan (Hezb-e-Wahdat Islami Afghanistan), based in Tehran.
      30. In early October, I also had a meeting in New York, with a joint delegation
      of opposition groups based in Peshawar and Tehran, led by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front (Jabha-e-Najat-e-Melli Afghanistan). In addition to Prof. Mujaddedi, the joint delegation included Pir, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the.leader of the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (Mahaz-Melli-Islami Afghanistan), "Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Movement of Afghanistan (Harakat-e-Enqelab-e-Islami Afghanistan), representatives from . the Islamic League of Afghanistan (Jami'at-Islami Afghanistan),                                   the Islamic Movement           Of Afghanistan
      (Harakat-e-Islami Afghanistan), the Islamic Alliance of Afghan mujaheddin (Ittehad-e-Islami-Mujaheddin Afghanistan)- all based in Peshawar, Pakistan- as
58
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHAN JIHAD                              VOL. 5 NO. 1
    well as from the Islamic Unity Party of Afghanistan (Hezb-e-Wahdat Islami Afghanistan), based in Tehran.
    31. In addition to the above-mentioned opposition leaders, Mr. Sevan has continued his close contacts and regular consultations with other opposition leaders and groups based in Peshawar, including Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the Islamic League of Afghanistan (Jami'at-e-Islami Afghanistan), Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the Islamic Pa^ty of Afghanistan (Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan), MawlaWi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of the Islamic Party of Afghanistan (Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan), Prof. Abdur (sic) Rab Rasool Sayyaf of the Islamic Union for the .Liberation (sic) of Afghanistan (Ittehad-e-Islami Baraye Azadi (sic) Afghanistan), and Qazi Amin Weqad, leader of the Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujaheddin (Ittehad-e-Islami Mujaheddin Afghanistan), as well! as with leading commanders of the resistance, the Nationwide Council of Mujaheddin Commanders, tribal and religious leaders (Ulema), as well as others.
    32. Mr. Sevan has also maintained contact and Consulted regularly with the former King Mohammad Zahir Shah who currently resides in Rome, as well as with a
/ multitude of eminent Afghan personalities currently residing inside Afghanistan, in the region as well as- outside the region.
    33. I had the opportunity to consult in Tehran last September with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan. Earlier in June, I met with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Akram Zaki, and Chairman of the Senate, Mr. Wasim Sajat. In early October, I also had the opportunity to meet in New York with the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Muhammad Siddique Khan . Kanju. Mr. Sevan has heid discussions with the President, the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Secretary and other senior Government officials of Pakistan on a regular basis.
    34. Since the adoption of General Assembly resolution, 45/12, I have also carried out intensive      consultations with  the two guarantors of  the  Geneva
    Accords. In June 1991, I had a thorough discussion on the Afghan question with the then Foreign Minister of the USSR, Mr. Aleksandr Bessmerthnyk. In September, I also disciissed the situation in Afghanistan with the current Foreign Minister ui the USSR, Mr. Boris B. Pankin.
    35. I also held discussions on this question with the President of the United States of America, Mr. George Bush, in May and September 1991, as well as with Secretary of State, Mr. James A. Baker III, in June and in September 1991.
    36. In addition to my contacts with the two guarantors and those of Mr. Sevan with the Ambassadors of the two guarantors in the region, a series of expert-level meetings  have been held between    my representatives   and  United
    States officials, in New York, and in Washington, D.C., on a regular basis since last November. Similar     meetings have also been held on a regular  basis with
    representatives of the USSR in Moscow, New York and Geneva.
    37. In September, I       had the opportunity   to discuss in Tehran  the' Afghan
    question with President Hashemi Rafsanjani of the islami Republic of Iran, and Dr. Ali Akbiar Velayati, the Foreign Minister. I also had several opportunities
59
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991            iNfllMNJ1WIII                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
  *. during the period under review to discuss this question with the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The Foreign Minister had previously received my Personal Representative in Tehran, in April, and in Islamabad, in June.
    38.  In September, I had the opportunity to discuss the Afghan question with His
    Majesty King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, in Jeddah. I also held consultations with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Prince Saud El-Faisal. My Personal. Representative, remained in close contact with other senior officials of the Government, both in Jeddah and Islamabad.                                         *
    39.  In September in Jeddah, I also held discussions on the Afghan question with the Secretary-General of the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC), Dr. Hamid Algabid. My Personal Representative has been in close contact with the
  , secretariat of the OIC and has held discussions with Mr. Ibrahim S. Bakr, the Assistant Secretary-General for Political, Le^al and Minorities Affairs, both in Jeddah and in Islamabad.                                   ,
    40.  The above account represents only-' partially the intensive discussions that I and my Personal Representative have been conducting with all parties concerned during the last 12 months. '
    41. In May 1991, I concluded an intensive round of consultations through my Persnal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan. All segments of the Afghan people, including political leaders of opposition groups and resistance commanders, based in Peshawar, Tehran and inside Afghanistan, as well asx prominent Afghans currently residing outside the regioh were consulted. The Governments concerned were also consulted.
    42. After the conclusion of the above-mentioned consultations, in a statement issued on 21 May, the text of which is reproduced in annex I of the present report (Afghan Jehad , April-June, 1991), I provided the following five elements which would serve as a good basis for . a political settlement in Afghanistan, acceptable to the vast majority of the Afghan people:
       (a) The necessity of preserving the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political idependence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan.
    ,         ....          i
   A                 '■ # •                            #                   , '■ ■ '•
       (b) The recognition of the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system, free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or
  #       constraint of  any kind whatsoever.
       (c) The need for a transition period, details of which have to be worked out and agreed upon through an intra-Afghan dialogue, leading to the establishment of a broad-based Government.
           (1)  The need, during that period, for transitional arrangements acceptable to the vast * ma jority of the Afghan people,; including the establishment of; a credible and impartial transition mechanism with
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991           MANJf Hflfl      ,              VOL. 5 NO. 1
        appropriate powers and authority (yet to be specified) that would enjoy the confidence of the Afghan people and provide them with the necessary assurances to participate in frCe and fair elections, taking into account Afghan traditions, for the establishment of a broad-based Government.
        (2)  The need for cessation of hostilities during the transition period.
        (3)  The advisability of assistance, as appropriate, of the United Nations and of any other international organization during the transition period and in the’electoral process.
    (d) The necessity of an agreement- to be implemented together .with all-agreed transitional arrangements- to end arms supplies to all Afghan sides, by all.
    (e) The recognition of the need for adequate financial and material resources to alleviate the hardship of the Afghan refugees and the creation of the necessary conditions for their voluntary repatriation, as well as for the economic and social reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 43.  In' June 1991, I held in New york a series of bilateral meetings with the representatives of the Governments of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the United States >tof America and the USSR.
 All the Governments concerned expressed their support for my efforts, welcomed the statement made on .21 May, and reiterated their commitment to a political settlement of the Afghan question. I have continued my, contacts with all the         i
 Governments concerned; both personally and through my Personal Representative, .
 44.  The Government of the Republic of Afghanistan as well as other Governments concerned have also supported my statement of 21 May 1991.
 45. In a statement issued on 11 June 1991, /the European Community and its 12
 Member States have welcomed and expressed their support for my sustained efforts to achieve an overall political settlement (A/4.6/258).                 \
 46.  I am satisfied that the vast majority of the Afghan opposition leaders, groups and eminent Afghan personalities as well as others have stated their support for my. efforts and in particular for my statement of 21 May 1991, They have accepted that the five elements contained in my statement would serve as a , good basis for a political settlement in Afghanistan, acceptable to the vast majority of the Afghan people.
 47.  I have impressed on all my interlocutors that whatever the process to . attain a settlement, it should.be a strictly Afghan process, free from foreign interference.
 48. From 28 to 30 July and from 28 to 29 August 1991, In Islamabad and Tehran,       [
 respectively, the Foreign Minister of the' Islamic Republic of Iran, Dr. All         [
 Akbar Velayati, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the      f
 Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Mr. Akram Zaki, and leaders of Afghan resistance #*v parties based in Peshawar and Tehran held,tripartite talks on Afghanistan. In
        .   :         i ’        '■                           i         ■
                                        61                                            I
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER» 1991 AFGHAN J[HA0                             VQL.  5 NO. 1
 the joint Declaration issued on 30 July at the end of the first round of the tripartite meetings, the participants "recognized the positive elements in the five-point statement by the United Nations Secretary-General. The statement could serve as a possible basis for a settlement for the Afghanistan problem. Therefore, the statement could be further studied and, after necessary clarifications, could be considered for a comprehensive solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan".
 49.  In its resolution on Afghanistan, the Twentieth Islamic Conference, of Foreign Ministers, held in Istanbul from 4 to 8 August 1991, noted "with appreciation the efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General, including his latest initiative of 21 May 1991, to promote a comprehensive political settlement, which also envisages a role for other international organizations including the OIC". Further, it requested the QIC Secretary-General to coordinate his efforts with the United Nations Secretary-General for promoting a political settlement in Afghanistan and recommended that the OIC have an active role in the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
 50.  The Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in Accra, from 2 to 7 September 1991, . welcomed the efforts of the parties concerned aimed at a peaceful solution of the Afghan question and, called for a comprehensive political settlement in accordance with General Assembly resolution 45/12. Further, the Non-Aligned Movement expressed "support .< for' United Nations Secretary-General *s proposals contained in his statement of 21 May 1991 for a political solution in Afghanistan".
                                         ,    f
                               E.   OBSERVATIONS
 51. I have repeatedly stated that' there is no alternative to a political solution. Durable peace in Afghanistan can be achieved only through a political settlement. All concerned parties need to exercise restraint and avoid further escalation of the fighting at this crucial time in order not to undermine the political process.
 52. Immediately after the joint statement made in Moscow on 13 September 1991,
 I welcomed the agreement reached between the Governments of the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to discontinue their weapons deliveries to all Afghan sides, effective 1 January 1991. The two Governments, agreed that a cessation of hostilities was essential for the peaceful conduct of elections during the transition period and for a lasting political settlement. To facilitate this cessation, they agreed to discontinue their weapons deliveries to all Afghan sides. They also agreed that a cease-fire and cut-off of weapons deliveries from all other sources should follow this step. They agreed further    to work towards   withdrawal of major   weapons  systems from
 Afghanistan.
 53. The decision taken by the two Governments will give impetus to the current
 efforts aimed    at achieving a    political solution.   I also   welcome , the
 reaffirmation by the two Governments of their willingness to promote in every way possible the efforts of the Secretary-General to contribute in practical ways to the early settlement of this conflict.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AffiHAIUM                      VOL. 5 NO. 1
   54.  The above decision represents a major contribution towards implementing one of' the key provisions of my statement of 21 May. I urge all other Governments concerned to take urgently similar decisions and halt not only the supply of arms, but also stop financing the purchase of arms.
   55.  I appeal to all Governments concerned to promote the unity of the Afghan people, and encourage them to demonstrate the necessary flexibility essential for a political settlement. I regret to note that interference in the internal affairs of the Afghan people continues to be exerted by some elements who still pursue a military option, despite the support given by the. governments concerned fpr my 21 May, statement. The pursuit of the military option will only bring.-increased suffering and will have serious consequences, not only for the Afghan people, but for the neighbouring countries as well. All the Governments concerned have therefore a major responsibility to prevent the active pursuit of such goals•
   56.  I believe that the credible and impartial transition mechanism referred to in my statement of 21 May should have the appropriate powers and authority to guarantee the unity, safety and security of the Afghan people, the territorial1 integrity of Afghanistan, and should be able to organize and conduct free and fair, elections. Appropriate international'guarantees should be provided in order to enable the transition mechanism to carry out: its tasks.
   57.  I further believe that all powers and all executive Authority should be transferred to the transition mechanism as of the first day of the transition period. What is essential is to ensure an orderly transfer of power.
   58.  In order . to bring (about a political. settlement, it is necessary that all ,segments of the Afghan people feel that their concerns are addressed, i fully appreciate the fact that after 13 years of a very bitter war, not a single Afghan family remains untouched by that tragedy. As a result there are strong feelings against the participation, of certain personalities and groups in an intra-Afghan dialogue., or during the transition period and its mechanism. I remain confident, however, that ways and means can be found of satisfying all concerned. A dialogue can be organized in various manners, direct or indirect,
  < with the participation of Afghans who would be acceptable to all sides. Nevertheless, if a political settlement is to be brought about, there is no alternative to such a dialogue.                                                        "
  >s59. I have been given assurances that some of the controversial personalities concerned would' not insist on their personal participation, either in the
  . intra-Afghan dialogue or in the transition mechanism. They would be willing to % relinquish their posts, should certain questions pertaining to participation in the intra-Afghan.dialogue and the transition mechanism be resolved,
   60.  I believe that at this stage, as difficult as it may be, we should set aside the question of personalities or their participation, and resolve first the difficulties involved in organizing an Afghan gathering with a wider participation, as well as define the structure and powers of the transition mechanism. I believe that all other questions can be resolved in that context, given the assurances I have received recently.
                                                        63
      october-december, 1991 AfGIIAlIJillAfl                vol. 5 no. 1
       61. What is essential now in Afghanistan is not only to refrain from escalating the fighting, but also to find ways of bringing about a pause in the fighting in order to help accelerate the peace process. It is also essential that all aspects of the Afghan question are. addressed and that concrete confidence building steps are taken by all sides.
       62.  There are many' Afghan political prisoners as well as prisoners of war. There is also a number of other prisoners of war-Soviet citizens and otjiers-still in captivity. This issue must be addressed urgently# particularly for humanitarian reasons. I appeal to all those holding prisoners to provide information theredn either to the International Committee of the Red Cross or to the United Nations. My appeal goes to the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan, to the leaders of the resistance and all others concerned, so that the families of the prisoners may be informed. The prisoners should be given the choice of staying where they are, to return to their homes or go t,o a third country; No prisoner of war should be used as a pawn for bargaining) they should be treated humanely in accordance with international law .governing the" treatment of prisoners of war. I would also like to appeal to all Governments to use whatever influence they may have with the parties concerned and' encourage them in this direction. I therefore appeal for the release of all political prisoners as well as all prisoners of war on humanitarian grounds. Such a step is essential for the achievement of a comprehensive political settlement.
       63.  The question of Afghanistan has reached a critical stage. We now have, however, a unique opportunity to/resolve the Afghan question. It is incumbent on all the Governments concerned to ensure that further bloodshed be avoided by all means. All Afghans must be persuaded to refrain from an escalation of the military conflict and to avoid a power vacuum in Afghanistan. What is essential is to form a transition mechanism to which all powers and all executive authority could.be transferred in an orderly manner. I therefore appeal to all Afghan leaders to place the interests of the Afghan people above all other interests and, if need be, to be ready to make the ultimate personal sacrifice and not become an obstacle to the achievement of a durable political settlement. I also appeal to all Governments concerned to support the political process and respect the right of the Afghan people to decide their own future.
                                             : NOTES ;
       1/ See7 Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-third Year,. Supplement, for April, May and June 1988, document S/19835, annex!.
                                                     64
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
    UN Human Rights Commission
                 on

 EDITOR'S NOTEi The following is the text of "Conclusions and Recommendations" of Felix Ermacora, Special Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights9 on "Situation of human rights in Afghanistan" released by the UN General Assembly 5 Novemberf 1991. Paragraph numberings are those of the report itself.
1
                                           A. CONCLUSION
 84.  The pdlAtical situation with regard to Afghanistan has evolved. The aforesaid five-point peace plan of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the, Declarations of Islamabad and Tehran, the joint statement made by the United States of America and the Soviet union concerning "negative symmetry", all show growing concern for a political solution to the Afghan conflict.
 85. However, the conflict is still going on and it has an adverse effect on the human rights situation in the region, • and in particular in Afghanistan. The human rights situation continues to have an international dimension, 'which warrants the continuing attention of the world community.
 ,86. The refugee situation has not changed significantly. There are still over 6 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan, the Islamic Republic of Iran and other countries. The refugee situation constitutes a complex of human rights and humanitarian law problems. Very few refugees are prepared to go back. The reason why the refugee population remains stable is their assessment of the human rights situation inside Afghanistan from a political, economic and military perspective. Considerable parts of the country are still destroyed, there is no sound administrative infrastructure and law and order are not wiflely guaranteed.
 87. The enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights of refugees is not guaranteed. Due to the decrease of international assistance,, and despite the humanitarian efforts of the host countries, in particular Pakistan, the extent to which refugees can enjoy economic, social and cultural rights is diminishing.
 88. The armed conflict between the Afghan Government and the armed opposition forces is characterized by attacks launched from both sides and by indiscriminate actions of’retaliation. This still results in heavy casualties and material losses among the civilian"population. Rockets and long-range artillery are still used. All war material is of foreign manufacture. v
                            Acts of terrorism within the meaning of the First Additional Protocol to
 65
89.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       HlllllllRJllllHl         VOL. 5 NO. 1 .
 the Geneva Conventions have continued. They, too, result in a heavy loss of life among the civilian population.
                                                      •      r
 90.  The numerous prisoners taken during the battle of Khost have generally been treated in conformity with humanitarian law, both by the Government and by the opposition forces. ICRC was initially allowed to visit the majority of the prisoners. However, they were subsequently denied access to most of them for follow-up visits. The Special Rapporteur was also offered to visit .prisoners taken by opposition forces in a prison camp under their authority, but was unable to do so for logistical reasons.
 91.  The fate of other prisoners in the hands of the opposition forces is
 unknown to the Special Rapporteur.                                  ,
 92.  The human rights situation in government-controlled areas is satisfactory in general, but actual enjoyment of all rights largely depends on the principal structures of the Government which are not subject to sufficient control through a system of checks and balances. Only a freely elected government based on party pluralism would be able to guarantee fully all the freedoms enshrined in the Afghan Constitution. Reference should be maide to the unconditional restitution by decree of the citizenship of the former King and members of his family;
 93. The fate of political prisoners who are under interrogation, awaiting trial
 or sentencing, remains alarming. Allegations of ill-treatment and even of torture have recently been brought up. This information cannot be entirely discarded as ill-founded. At least, confinement in complete isolation for a long period of time may be considered an established fact. THe arbitrariness of detention on remand could not be controlled, at least as long as the special courts of national security were in existence. However, in order to check the veracity of all torture allegations, in particular during lengthy police custody, a case-by-case cross-examination, which the Special Rapporteur was not' able to carry out at present, would have been necessary. A certain number/ of witnesses whom the Special Rapporteur interviewed showed visible, prima facie, signs of torture, the origins of which the Special Rapporteur could not determine without doubt and which would require very careful case-by-ca6e examination.                             ; .   (
 94. The Afghan Government has dissolved the special courts of national security and has established a new, unified judiciary and attorney system, which is to be welcomed. Pending procedures will be completed under the new judicial system. It is hoped that by not having politically affiliated judges, better control may be exercised over the interrogation period. However, specialized chambers dealing with matters concerning the internal and external security of the country continue to exist.
 95.  ICRC has so far not received permission to visit prisoners under interrogation, awaiting trial or awaiting sentencing held by the Ministry of State Security. It would appear that these prisoners also do not have access to defence attorneys. However, the Government has recently established an institution which will offer legal defence assistance.
 96.  The Special Rapporteur is of the opinibn that the number of inmates in
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AflillANJiHAil                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Pul-e-Charkhi Central Prison is 2,680, of whom 1,888 are political prisoners, which corresponds to , the figures provided, by the Government. There has been little variation in the number of political prisoners over the past several years owing probably to amnesty decrees. However, the fate of foreign prisoners is still a matter of concern.
 97. At the moment of writing this report, there were about 97 political, prisoners who had been accused of participating in the coup d'etat attempt of March 1990. They have been sentenced to death and have appealed to.the President for commutation of their sentences. The Special Rapporteur has received indications from members of the Government that these sentences may not be carried out, and that the President may consent to their commutation. Further consideration is "being given to altering the system of capital punishment in favor of the right to life.
                  .             •       .      '         .     '     l       ■
 98. Allegations continue to be made that prisoners held by the Opposition forces are not treated in accordance with humanitarian law. The Special Rapporteur was unable to investigate these allegations so far for logistical reasons. Owing to the absence of law and order in certain areas, a number of United Nations agencies and ICRC have temporarily halted their activities in some areas not under government control.
 99.  Allegations also continue to be made concerning the fate of Afghan children who are being educated in the Soviet Union. The Government of the Soviet Union has provided the Special Rapporteur with detailed explanations on this matter which appear to clarify the situation.
                                   i ,     ,                             ’        •
 100. The enjoyment of economic and social rights differs from region to region and by category of the population. In government-controlled areas, the enjoyment Of these rights is more effective and better organized than in the rest of the country as well as with regard to refugees.
 101. Due to the conflict, the Afghan society is fragmented. Therefore, the right to self-determination is only partially implemented. It is certainly not guaranted to the refugees. One of the fundamental expressions of self-determination is universal, equal, free, direct elections by secret ballot, which cannot be held in their traditional form under the present circumstances. Opinions differ on how to arrive at a common agreement concerning exercise of the right to self-determination.
                                          B. RECOMMENDATIONS
 102. The peace process snould not overlook the human rights issues in the given situation. Human rights should, be an element of the peace process and a political solution should be firmly placed within the framework of respect.for human rights. The United Nations peace plan should be the basis of all other commitments implemented through Afghan efforts. Universal and general elections in Afghanistan with the participation of all Afghans could lay foundations for a new human rights order.
 103. A cease-fire and de-mining are preconditions for the return of refugees in
67
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991          AlflilAKJIHAD                    VOL. 5 NO. 1
 honor. The international community should be prepared, together with the Governments! concerned, for a massive return of refugees and should assist these Governments in the elaboration and implementation of return plans.
 104. All political prisoners on both sides Should be released through amnesties, individual pardons or exchanges of prisoners.
 105.  After the introduction of the new judicial system in Afghanistan, political prisoners who were previously sentenced by special courts should have a right to retrial.
 106.  The Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners should be strictly adhered to, in particular with regard to prisoners in detention on remand;
 107. Prisoners considered as combatants .should be treated in accordance with
 humanitarian law.      x
 108. The death sentences pronounced against persons who are alleged to have
 participated in the attempted coup d'etat should not be carried put. 'the. policy of applying capital punishment should be reconsidered in accordance with. the Second Optional Protocol to the international Covenant on Civil and Political Rights aiming at the abolition of the death penalty (General Assembly resolution 44/128).                      /
 109.  Persons under interrogation should not be kept in isolation. They should havp access to legal remedies during the period of. police .custody. Their treatment should be regularly controlled by independent judges. Torture practices should be .stopped. If any are discovered, appeal should immediately be made to the High Court of Appeal. Prisonerscomplaints should be taken into account by the competent department of the Attorney-General's office;
 HQ. ICRC should be allowed regularly and unconditionally to visit prisoners OnA remand, awaiting trial or awaiting sentencing held by the Ministry of State . Security.
 111.  The Government of Afghanistan should be invited to accede without any reservation to the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The Special Rapporteur is of the opinion that opposition forces should be equally bound by international human rights instruments.
 112.  Genuinely free and universal elections should be prepared under the auspices of the United Nations.
 113.  The Special Rapporteur is of the opinion that the vigilance of the United Nations concerning the situation of human rights in Afghanistan.should come to an end only when it is satisfied that free elections leading to the massive return of refugees and to the monitoring of human rights through an independent Afghan legal system have been achieved. The concern of the United Nations with regard to human rights in Afghanistan could then be replaced by a system of advisory services.
                                                       68
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
I
 EDITOR'S NOTE,: The following is the text of the annual report of London based *Amnesty International" on human rights situation in areas under control of the Kabul regime.
      Reports of prolonged incommunicado detention of political prisoners in interrogation centres and prison blocks operated by the Ministry 'of State Security in Afghanistan are of serious concern to Amnesty Iritenrational. Hundreds of prisoners have reportedly been held without charge or trial for up to nine years in the centres, including the segregated Blocks 1 and 2 of Pul-e-Charkhi Prison near Kabul, and are denied access tor legal counsel and family' visits. Amnesty International has received reports that political ipriSoners in these centers are subject to systematic torture and ill-treatment, and that they are held under conditions that fail to meet the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners.
 1. BACKGROUND
♦Soviet troops completed their withdrawal from Afghanistan 15 February, 1989, as was required by the Geneva agreement of 14 April 1988 signed by Afghanistanj the USSR, Pakistan and the USA. The internal armed conflict, however, has continued. The government, headed by President Najibullah and supported, by the USSR, has maintained effective control over the capital, Kabul, and other major cities while the armed opposition groups- the Mujaheddin- supported by the USA and Pakistan, effectively control one provinbial•capital and many rural areas.
      On 6 March, 1990, the government of President Najibullah survived ' an attempted coup led by the then Defense Minister, Shahnawaz Tanai, who subsequently fled to Pakistan and formed an alliance with a mujaheddin group, the Hezb-e-Islami led by Gulbijddin Hekmatyar. Dozens of people are reported to have been extrhjudicially executed following the coup attempt, and hundreds ^ arrested.                                                                    . .
      The restrictions imposed by the Afghan government on outside communication with detainees and the continued war in Afghanistan h,ave made the collection and verification of information relating to Amnesty International's concerns difficult. Amnesty International has, however, received reports frdm former political detainees living -as refugees in Pakistan, and-has interviewed former political prisoners in their countries of asylum in Europe. Independent accounts,, including information provided by former government officials, has also been used to verify technical details.
69
/
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AffillAfl lltHflfl             VOL. 5 NO. 1
     'According to the information Amnesty International has received, individ-duals, suspected of involvement in armed opposition or non-violent anti-government activity are held in isolation cells during an initial period of interrogation which may last several months. Detainees are reportedly subjected to routine torture during this period. After the interrogation period, prisoners are transferred to detention centers run by the Ministry of Stabe Security, where they may be kept indefinitely without charge or trial, denied family visits and outside correspondence. Some political prisoners h<ave already been held under such conditions for several years, and Amnesty International believes that the interrogation and detention procedures of the Ministry of State Security constitutes, in effect, an independent system of official punishment that does not ’ regularly or inevitably lead to trial or detention within the normal judicial system.•
     This document deals with reports of. prolonged detention, without charge or trial, of political prisoners, including possible prisoners of conscience, in interrogation centres and other places of detention controlled by the Ministry of State Security.
                  2.   THE RIASAT INTERROGATION CENTRES
     The ,KHAD (Khedamat-e-Etela'ate Dawlati) or the State Information Service was established in 1980 under the direction of Dr. 1Najibullah, now- president. Interrogation centres were set up throughout the country known as ,KHAD centres. Since 1986 when the KHAD was upgraded, becoming the Ministry of State Security, these centers have been officially palled Riasats (Directorates). The public, however, still commonly ref.ers to them as KHAD centers.
     There are currently over a dozen Riasat interrogation centers in Kabul, with an unknown number in provincial cities. Torture, reportedly takes place in all of these centers, but information received by Aynnesty International suggests that five interrogation centers have been particularly responsible for the systematic use of torture in recent years:
     Riasat-e-Panj, Directorate No.5, located near Darul-Aman Palace in Kabul, comprises two departments, one responsible for the elimination of 'anti-government groups inside Afghanistan, the other carrying out the same function outside the country.
     Riasat-e-Panj is reported to have been particularly involved in the arrest , and torture of people suspected of involvement in coup attempts. The personnel of Riasat-e-Panj is reportedly responsible for dozens of extrajudicial executions following the coup attempt on 6 March. 1990. Among those executed were four generals- Asif Shour, Kabir Kawyani (Karwany), Japar (Jafar) Sar Tir and Mohammad Pirooz?- who were reportedly arrested on the day of the coup at the Rishkhor army base in Kabul, allegedly on the direct order of the head of Riasat-e-Panj; Witnesses report that the four generals were dragged to a room by the personnel of Riasat-e-Panj, "Shots were fired and the generals were killed in that room".
     Riasat-e-Haft, Directorate No.7, located in the Shashdarak area north of
                                          70
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 RfGllflN JiHflO
                                                                                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
     Kabul (northen Kabul), carries out responsibilities similar to. that of Riasat-e-Panj .
     Prisoners are initially taken to isolation cells which they may share with one or two other detainees.    Once the     interrogation is over, they are
     reportedly transferred to an underground area in the sarnie building where they may be kept for several months before they are transferred to Pul-e-Charkhi Prison.
     A former examining magistrate/ who was authorized to visit the Riasat-e-Haft interrogation center between 1982 and 1990, told Amnesty International that he had witnessed many instances of torture during his visists. He stated that prisoners had been, subjected to extended periods      of sleep
     deprivation, had received electric shocks, with a telephone apparatus and had been badly beaten. "I witnessed evidence of torture on the prisoner’s bodies last year and even this year (1990)".
     Another witness, a former security officer, told Amnesty International that torture is routinely and systematically practiced in Riasat-e-Haft.
          "The most notorious of all interrogation centres is Riasat-e-Haft in Shashdaraki Anyone taken  there has      to confess. The KHAD personnel
          pride and. boast in having uncovered  many plots..against the State, so
          they have an open hand in using torture. This will include electric shocks, beating, forcing the prisoner to sit down and stand up . continuously for hours/ lying the prisoner on the bed with a KHAD agent walking up and down his stomach to force him to talk, preventing the prisoner from going to sleep, keeping the prisoner standing for long hours in the extremes of either cold or hot weather, pulling out the prisoner’s hair or beard or moustache..."
     This witness also described an incident in 1989 in which a prisoner's -children were reportedly fetched andjtortured in front of him in order to extract his "confession" to alleged anti-state activity. Testimonies received by Amnesty International from former prisoners of conscience confirm the use of this practice in earlier years.
     Riasat-e-Char, Directorate No.4, reportedly specialises in uncovering anti-state activity within educational institutions. This Riasat is reportedly responsible for the arrsst and imprisonment of school teachersuniversity lecturers* students or other persons working in an educational institution.
     Riasat-e-Awal, Directorate No.1, Comprises two branches, in Bibi Mahroo, in the northeast quarter of Kabul,, and in Wazir Akbar Khan, near the city ' center. This Riasat is reportedly responsible for the surveillance, arrest and imprisonment of ordinary citizens of Kabul suspected of anti-government activity. Its responsibilities, therefore, overlap with those of the other ... Riasats.                         ,
                                 Riasat-e-Umoomi, the General Directorate, is based in a large building complex in central Kabul known as Sedarat, which also houses the
                                       71   . .
 OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1991 AfliUJINJOiAO                           VOL. 5 NO. 1
      headquarters of the Ministry of State Security and the Special Court of National Security. It reportedly is responsible for the .interrogation of high ranking government officials and other prominent persons suspected of anti-government activity. Former government officials allegedly involved in the coup attenkpt of 6 March 1990 were reportedly taken to Riasat-e-Umoomi during the first two days after the attempted coup. Among these were Ghulam Dastgir Panjsheri and Saleh Mohammad Zeray, who are believed to have transferred, with others, to Block 1 of Pul-e-Charkhi prison after their initial period of interrogation in Riasat-e-Umoomi.
      The personnel of these five Riasats are reported to bypass even the limited safeguards on detention and interrogation contained in Afghanistan law.
      Afghan law apparently places detention and interrogation under the supervision of an examining magistrate and requires that political arrests by security personnel should take place in. the presence of representatives of the army and police. According to a former examining magistrate, these regulations are routinely ignored by the security personnel of the Riasats. "Rather than informing the army and the:police about an intended arrest, they simply sign for these two organs themselves".
      The law further stipulates a 72-hour limit to an initial period of detention, after which the detainee is required to be seen by an examining magistrate, either for a decision on.'the case or an extension of the detention period, which cannot exceed one month. Reports indicate that this law is also routinely ignored in practice.
      Detention conditions in the interrogation centers are reportedly to be well below the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment, of Prisoners. Detainees are kept under interrogation for several months. Separation of detainees from others co-accused is strictly enforced. Cells are reportedly never cleaned, there is poor ventilation, and prisoners suffer infection from skin disoases due to lack of proper sanitation. Access to toilets is limited to two or three visits a day, with these reportedly limited to three minutes.
      As. family visits are not allowed, it can be several weeks before a family can establish the whereabouts of a. prisoner. One means of discovering if a missing person is in detention is to bring money and clothes to security personnel for the prisoner. These are accepted, with a receipt signed- by the prisoner, unless the prisoner has been or is soon to be executed.
                    3.   BLOCKS 1 AND 2 OF PUL-E-CHARKHI
      After their initial period of interrogation in the( Riasats, some /political prisoners are sent for trial by the Special Court of National Security. Defendants in these trials, have no right to defense counsel or to adequate judicial redress. Other political prisoners are sent, without any form of legal trial, to permanent detention facilities independently operated by the Ministry of State Security within - regular prison institutions.
        ’                _         ‘          -   I        .     *    .      . ■ -
      In Kabul such unsentenced prisoners are sent to Blocks 1 and 2 of pul-e-
                                       72
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991         . AfGilANJlHJlfi                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
  Charkhi Prison, Detainees in these two blocks are kept in complete isolation from the outside world and from other prison blocks for an indefinite period which may last several years. A former prisoner of conscience, released in 1987 after five years' detention in Blocks i and 2, knew of dozens of prisoners kept there without charge or( trial for as long as nine years,       ‘
       An Afghan politician who was arrested immediately after the military coup of 27 December 1979 spent about eight years in Blocks 1 and 2 of, Pul-e-Charkhi. until his release in 1988. For the first five years he was held without charge or trial and had no family visits. In 1985 he was taken before a special revolutionary court (renamed in 1988 as the Special Court of,National Security) and was sentenced to 16 years' imprisonment on charges of anti-state activity. Three years later he was released as a result of a general amnesty for political prisoners. In his country of asylum he gave Amnesty International the following account of medical facilities in Blocks 1 and 2 of Pul-e-Charkhi:
       "Medical care was practically non-existent in Blocks 1 and 2. There was a prison hospital but patients would not be taken there, unless they'were seriously ill. The KHAD official would use a prisoner's illness as a means of punishment. Sometimes the patient would get to the hospital too late. A friend of mine who had a minor heart condition died soon .after he was taken to the hospital".
       Block 1 is understood to have three floors, each holding 160 prisoners in 4-person cells, The whole block can therefore hold 480 prisoners..It is said to be reserved for former cabinet ministers from previous governments and other prominent political detainess. Foreign prisoners and prisoners' sentenced to death ar^ also reportedly held in Block 1* It is reported that prisoners have ;some, limited, access to fresh air, but no family visits or ■ outside correspondence. Books, radio sets, newspapers and stationery are not permitted. Prisoners in Block 1 are,, permitted to receive small amounts of money or clothing from their families once every twp weeks.
       Block 2 is also said to have three floors, each of these with 4-person and 40-p irson cells to hold a total of 288 prisoners. The whole block therefore has a capacity for 864 prisoners. Reportedly, Block 2 is allocated solely to untried political prisoners, or those awaiting trial.,Prisoners in Block 2 are believed to remain under interrogation even after several months in the Riasats. The \ authorities therefore prevent any communication between them and other prisonsrs. Consequently, prisoners in Block 2 are reportedly denied any access to fresh air. Like Block 1 prisoners, ■- they are not permitted family visits although they may receive money and clean clothes from their families.
       According to official sources, the total number of persons held for interrogation by the Ministry of State Security as of mid-1990 was 1,247, including 726 held in detention centers in Kabul. Official sources also indicate that an additional 574 prisoners were held .in Blocks 1 and 2 of Pul-e-Charkhi. These included 26 prisoners under interrogation, 319 awaiting trial or sentencing, and 229 persons described as convicted prisoners held for an "administrative period".
       Amnesty International does not have a precise estimate of the total number
                                                  .73'
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991                 MANJH                     VOL. 5 NO. 1
 of political detainees held..-without charge or tr;ial in interrogation and detention centers run by the Ministry of State Security. Accounts given to Amnesty International by former inmates and officials, however, suggest that the actual number of political prisoners held in Blocks 1 and 2 alone may exceed loop. '■, .  '                        ;
                        4.   INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS
      Tqrture and ill-treatment of prisoners are prohibited by international human rights standards. Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), to which Afghanistan acceded in 1983 states that "No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". No derogation, from this article may be made under any circum-stances.                      -                     >
  .  '           , ;         ;   .  1 . ...    \             . .: ■- V •
    j Article 2.1 of the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, which was ratified by Afghanistan on 1 April, 1987, requires each State Party to "take effective legislative, administrative, judicial orxother measures to prevent acts of torture in any territory under its jurisdiction". It also provides that "no exceptional circumstances whatsoever, whether a state of war or a threat of war, internal political instability or any other public emrgency, may be invoked as a justification of ,torture".
      In Amnesty International's experience torture or other ill-treatment is most likely to occur during the first hours or days of detention. It is therefore vital that there be prompt and regular access after arrest by a medical officer, by the detainees'family and by a lawyer.
      Article 1 of the Basic Principle on the Role of Lawyers (BPRL), adopted by consensus on 7 September 1990 by the UN Congress cn the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, states that "All persons are entitled to call upon the assistance of a lawyer of their choice to protect and establish their rights and to defend them in all stages of criminal proceedings". Article 7 of the BPRL states that "Governments shall further ensure that all persons arrested or detained, with or without criminal charge, shall have prompt access to a lawyer, ajid in any case not later than forty-eight hours from the time of arrest, or detention".                                          \                ;
      The UN ^Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners provide inter alia that accommodation for prisoners should meet all requirements of health, -that sanitary installations should be adequate, and that prisoners should be able to inform their family immediately of their imprisonment or transfer to another institution and to receive regular family visits. Amnesty International believes that these and other requirements of the Standard Minimum Rules have not been fully applied to conditions of detention in the interrogation and detention centres under the responsibility of the Ministry of State Security.
      The Afghan government has reportedly kept prisoners in these detention centers in complete isolation from the outside world, allowing no independent inspection of the centers by recognized international humanitarian
                                                         74
 OCTOBER -DECEMBER, 1991         AKillflN J[HA0                  VOL. 5 NO- 1
 organizations. Although the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) received an agreement in principle, in December, 1987, from the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Interipr, and, State Security authorizing ICRC visits to people detained in Afghan prisons, this permission did not extend to prisoners held without sentence or those detained in interrogation centres.
      The first ICRC visit took place in Marcl) 1988 in Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul, to sentenced detainees under fit jurisdiction of both the Ministry of the Interior (Blocks 3 and 4), and the Ministry of State Security (Blocks 1 and 2). Despite repeated requests, however, ICRC delegates have not been permitted to visit detainees held in interrogation centres such as Riasat-e-Umoomi and Riasat-e-Haft, or unsentenced prisoners held in detention centres such as Blocks 1 and 2 of Pul-e-Charkhi. According to the ICRC's published documents, "... their plight is of particular concern".
      Amnesty International is concerned that the interrogation and long-term detention facilities operated by the Ministry of State Security constitutes an independent system of official punishment that functions outside the judicial protections apparently provided by Afghan law and the requirements of international l^w. Persons detained within this system are reportedly subject to the systematic vise of torture. These political prisoners may be held indefinitely without charge or trial, and may have no prospect of ever having access to normal judicial prbceedings. They are held under conditions that fail to meet a wide range of basic interntional standards.
                5.  AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL RECOMMENDATIONS
      Amnesty International calls upon the Afghan Government:
 1.   To ensure that no-orie is held in secret or unacknowledged detention, and
      that all detainees are brought before a judicial authority promptly after being taken into custody.
 2.   To ensure that all detainees have prompt and regular access to relatives, lawyers and doctors.
 3.   To authorize full and      regular inspection of  all places of detention,
      including Riasats and Blocks 1 and 2 of Pul-e-Charkhi, by independent international humanitarian organizations.
 4.   To inform cleanly and     publicly all officials  involved in the custody,
      interrogation and treatment of prisoners that torture, which is a criminal act, will not be tolerated*
 5.   To bring  all prisoners    awaiting trial before  a court that conforms to
      minimum international standards for a fair trial.
 OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANJIHAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
            Shoora-e-Itelaf Rejects Talks with Communists
      "The Islamic revolution of Afghanistan is on the threshold of victory as a result of the sacrifice's given by the heroic Afghan nation and the blood of our beloved martyrs. Through the sacrifices by the people and the .valorous mujaheddin as well the perception of our political leaders, we have so far been able to frustrate all intrigues and our jehad has witnessed many victories despite pressures by leaders of infidelity and supporters of tyranny and crime.
      The latest among the Satanic conspiracies of the world arrogance, led by the Soviet Union and the US, is the proposal for the establishment of an interim transitional government with the participation of FazalUlhaq Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime and, perhaps, other pro-Russian elements. The mujaheddin leaders should also be extremely careful not to damage the high prestige of our jehad and revolution by cooperating and coming to an understanding with the so-called non-communists who are in fact worse than the communists.
      We are sure that proposing Khaliqyar Or other less known communists or So called "Muslims" in the Russian service, or for taking part in an interim government is a manifestation of recent tragic political changes that have been denied and rejected by the mujaheddin organizations. This last arrow, GOd willing, will also go astray and the defeated enemies of Islam and1 Afghanistan will again be forced to yield to the aspirations of the Afghan Muslim nation and will leave the destiny of Afghanistan to its true and legitimate heirs.
      The ICCA, reiterating its original stand, declares that the participation of Khaliqyar, and other pro-Russian elements will have no place either in the interim or permanent future governments of Afghanistan and shall never, be accepted by .us. T,o succumb to such a humiliation, in fact, will be a political Suicide. Their presence in the future interim government will rob the government of its legitimacy and legality.
      Similarly, in the talks proposed by the UN Secretary General, also the 'puppet governmentRussian agents and the Watan party cannotf be included. .We, therefore, as part of our Islamic obligation, request all the mujaheddin leaders to prevent the realization of this and other similar intrigues in view of the importance of present political situation and rest assured that God will protect and defend the Muslims and final victory is not far off.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
 • • • • •

v. » •
•x • •
¥:
I
• *
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The following are texts of two statements of the Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistant reflecting its views in the tri-partite conferences held between the mujaheddin» Pakistan and Iran in Islamabad and Tehran. The text has been translated from the August-September issue of Neda-e-Adalat,
 FIRST DECLARATION
      The Afghan Muslim nation,, after confronting the greatest political and military power of the East for 13 years, inflicting a shameful defeat on the Red Army arid foiling ever-increasing plots of the enemies of Islam is, by the grace of God, at the threshold of final victory, Leaders of the East and the West haVe joined hands to lead our jehad astray and to prevent it from bearing fruit for the realization of their new world order.
      Under such circumstances the unity of thought and cooperation among all the mujaheddin organizations devoid of all silly fanaticism and ethnical or group selfishness is a necessity. The cooperation of the Islamic countries with the Afghan mujaheddin to attain the lofty ideals and .aspirations of the Muslim Afghan nation is of vital importance.
      The Islamabad tripartite conference, despite its weaker points and shortcomings, was a positive and effective step in this direction and a preamble for all out efforts towards attainment of the legitimate right of the Muslim Afghan nation.   \
      The ICGA which, as a result of in*»,attention and unkindness on the part of the neighboring countries and the Islamic organizations, did not participate in the Islamabad conference, is duty-bound to remind all participating parties in the forthcoming Tehran tripartite conference, particularly responsible authorities in the Foreign Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran to consider the following points:
  1. Commonsense, Islamic Code andL traditions make it imperative that, in order to achieve positive results, it is necessary that all Islamic organizations should . take part in such conferences. Our* own experience in the political changes which have occured during this war has proved•that we must adhere to such principle. Otherwise, the conference will not yield positive
       results.'
                                                                                                                         )■ • .: -(
■V
                                                         77
OCTOBER-DECEMBER*
VOL. 5 NO. 1
  2. We expect from the Islamic Republic of Iran to respect the Afghan Islamic movements in a manner competent to the prestige of Iran and in conformity, with the great Islamic revolution which was Successfully completed under
      the leadership of Hazrat-e^Imam. Khumeni and. to treat all Islamic groups equally. We wish that the approach of our Iranian friends towards the Afghan Islamic movements is based on Islamic brotherhood and void of every unfounded extremism.
  3. The Iranian authorities at various levels have repeatedly declared that they have no intention of meddling in the internal affairs of Afghanistan but are trying, as part of their Islamic obligation, to assist their Afghan brethren. While expressing our profound appreciation for their sincere efforts towards this end, we do not wish that they would resort to favoritism regarding the participation of various mujaheddin groups in the conference, on which the destiny of the nation hangs. Otherwise it may indicate an unjustified and inadmissable intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. It should be rioted that participation in such conferences is the legitimate right of every Islamic group that enjoys a \ significant, influence and Jpower inside the country. The ICCA, as an active and influencial political and military Organization in Afghanistan, comprizing four groups, is a credible party and ignoring it would only damage the prestige and effectiveness of such conference and no body can negate the power of this council*
      We hope that the Foreign Ministry authorities of the Islamic Republic Of Iran end those in charge of the Afghanistan affairs in Iran will pay serious attention to their work regarding the Afghan problem, and bear in mind the damage that the probable non-participation, of any of these Islamic movements may possibly cause.
      At present the most serious enemies of the Muslim Afghan nation do not ,ignore any of the credible Afghan mujaheddin organizations, including the ICCA, and in fact they cannot do so. Why should then our friends and supporters, of our Islamic revolution, whom we expect to assist us, should act in a manner so as to place, not only us but the enemies of- our nation and revolution, in doubt regarding their realism arid accuracy of political comprehension.
       We should like to repeat that non-participation of ICCA representatives in these conferences will not deminish the role of - this Council in matters related to Afghanistan. On the (Contrary it will have a negative effect on the sessions of the conference and will render it ineffective.
       It will not be out of place to mention that Iran and Pakistan will not always be host to such conferences and the Council will not always fall prey to disfavor under various pretexts.
       The true heirs of the Islamic revolution in Afghanistan are; the entire oppressed people of this country and to carry out the Divine mission to its final victory is also the duty of, the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. We cannot and will hot be influenced by others to discharge this religious responsibility or wait for their Confirmation or rejection of our Council.
                                         Islamic Coalition Council of Afghanistan 1                                              Peshawar, 19 August, 1991
78
  ' /
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AIGIIANJIHAII                  VOL. 5 NO.  1
  SECOND DECLARATION
      Under the present sensitive conditions relative to our very destiny, when the Afghan Islamic jehad is on the threshold of victory and the world at large is undergoing deep political changes, seeking a just political solution of the Afghanistan problem is of vital importance. The probability of the success of political efforts, along with interisification of military operations, particularly in the wake of the political upheaval and sovereignty of supporters of democracy in the Soviet Union, is a matter worth considering.
      The Islamabad tripartite conference 28 July could have been an effective move in this direction, but lack of participation by the entire resistance forces, particularly- the ICCA- an organization comprising four independent Islamic groups- and some other shortcomings greatly decresed chances of success of this gathering and brought its prestige into question.
      We expected the Tehran conference to be more successful in its efforts for seeking a,just solution for the Afghan problem. In a resolution 19 August we had pin-pointed the weaker points and shortcomings prevailing in the Islamabad conference and had mentioned some points to the governments of Pakistan and Iran, particularly the Foreign Ministry authorities of the Islamic Republic of Iran and warned them to be cautious of their undue intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and matters     related to the  destiny of this Islamic
 nation. .      ,
                                  ■ - . . ' ' • - \ . . \ • « 4 ' •- ‘ ' .
      Unfortunately, not only the shortcomings were not removed prior to the
 Tehran conference but in fact some others were added to theim. And for reasons not known# holding of defective meetings for publicity purposes was preferred than thorough and constructive ones    and   once again the ICCA was subjected to
 lack of attention and kindness and it  was not invited to the Tehran meeting.
      Stressing on the points mentioned in our previousi declaration we should like to add that the . session, due :to non-representation of all credible mujaheddin organizations, including    the   ICCA, will not achieve   the desired
 result, but will only serve as a means of propaganda and publicity gimmick £timed at pursuing known objective to underestimating the role of some powerful Islamic organizations currently active in jehad affairs. We also declare that whatever discussions or negotiations taking place in the absence of ICCA will be rejected as unacceptable .            ' <               -
                                                       70
   OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
     AFGHAN RECONSTRUCTION
80
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   flfCHflNJIHOO                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
  AFGHAN MINERALS
  which are precisely located, described and classified in three categories:    (1)
  deposits, (2) occurrences, and (3) showings. In addition, 306 broadly defined areas are identified in which mechanical mineralogical haloes occur, suggesting potential occurrences of specific minerals. This exhaustive catalog of mineral locations occupies 70 percent of the report.
       It also defines the different ground-water aquifers in the country strati-graphically and describes 198 specific water localities, including 112 mineralized waters and 86 fresh-water wells and.springs in desert regions.
       The maps of the report, prepared according to international standards, contain a wealth of information in visual form.
       The article by Asefi and Shroder then gives the following information about Afghan minerals:
                                              NATURAL GAS
       Russian liydrocarbon exploration at first focused primarily on natural gas. The Soviets promptly set about directing these finds to their own use, and denying them to the Afghans.                                            ’ , ■
       A sixty-mile-long pipeline carrying large volumes of Afghan natural gas into Soviet Central Asia was completed in 1967 and opened in.1968. Afghanistan's use of its first developed resource was limited to what could be obtained from a subsidiary pipeline feeding gas to a 36,000 kw thermal power plant in Mazar-e-Sharif and a 1U0,000-ton-per-year fertilizer plant.         »
       In May 1979, a new group of 200 Soviet geologists arrived in northern Afghanistan to look for gas. A short time later they announced the discovery of ahother ^as-bearing zone capable of producing one quarter million cubic meters per day. In early 1980, more Russian experts appeared in Afghanistan to increase
                                                     81
report, published in 1977, mentions 1,432 specific mineral resources
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGIIANJfHAfl                           VOL.  5  NO.  1
  gas production by 65 percent. Afghan-Soviet agreements called for the average annual export of 2.5 billion cubic meters of gas to the USSR up ^to the, year 1985, with any reduction of deliveries from Khwaja Gugirak to be made up by adding in desulfurized gas from Jarquduq. The revenues from the sale of gas were not, however, to be returned to the Afghan government; they were to be applied as repayment for Soviet loans and the interest on those loans.
                    '               ' OIL
       Afghanistan continues.to be totally dependent on foreign supplies of oil-mostly gasoline, diesel, and kerosene- coming from Iran and the Soviet Union. This dependence on foreign supplies has always cost the country much of its actual and potential foreign currency resources. Once again# Soviet manipulation ; contributed to this problem.                                         .
       Afghanistan initiated oil exploration as early as 1925, and in 1937 granted an American consortium (Texaco and Seabord) an exclusive 25-year concession, but this was. abruptly terminated at the onset of World War II. After the War , the Swedes found oil in the Angot hills of Sar-e-Pul; but then the Soviets stepped in with their massive credits, took over hydrocarbon exploration and divertied attention from oil to natural gas. They managed to persuade the government officials that gas exports were the most profitable and they argued that in any case Afghanistan was not endowed with major oil reserves. They repeatedly 1 emphasized that the exploitable reserves at Apgot (2 million tons) did not justify the construction of a refinery, and they did not look elsewhere at that t ime.
       When Daoud came to power for the second time in 1973, he renewed efforts to find oil. Since the Russians showed little interest, Afghan engineers,
  geologists, and' technical personnel undertook the assignment. Their exploration soon met with one success after another. In 1975 reserves equal to those of Angot were discovered at Aq-Darya. A year later, better quality oil was found, in three layers at Qashqari, with reserves estimated at 12 million tons. Soon additional strikes were made at Bazar Kami, and Biland Ghor; like the others, these were ali in the Sar-e-Pul and Shibarghan area. While drilling for natural gas, a larger oil strike was made at Ali, GUI, approximately 200 kilometers west of Sar-e-Pul, opening the possibility of other and1 possible larger strikes that i might be made in the intervening territory.
       The geological history of the region leaves open the possibility of major-reserves in Afghanistan. We now know, for example, that five major sedimentary basins with hydrocarbon-exploratipn interest occur in Afghanistan at the southeast end of the* main Kopet Dagh basin. The Karakum Basin in the northwest contains present production, but the Afghan-Tadjik basin to the northeast is also petroliferous and has several undrilled salt domes in likely areas. Both basins have over 30 large anticlines and .other geological structures of considerable interest.
       Meanwhile, oil exploration was going on in other parts of the country in the 1970s and there, at last, non-Soviet companies were doing the work. The Kundar-Urgun basin in the Katawalz area in the southeast was judged by German
                                                         82
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 DfGIIANJIHAO                              VOL. 5 NO. 1
 geologists to be a likely hydrocarbon zone, and around 1974-^75 the French company Total contracted to dp hydrocarbon explorations there. Total did not complete its contract obligations, forfeiting its contract rights prematurely and giving as its reasons geological formations that presumably made a significant strike unlikely. Afghan specialists found these explanations unconvincing, and two separate reports from high-level Afghan administrators indicated that a combination of Soviet machinations and bureaucratic corruption was responsible.
      Afghanistan was interested not only in major strikes for export purposes but in developing supplies' to meet domestic needs, a purpose that could be served by smaller Strikes. The Afghans' themselves continued the work in Katawaz. The Helmand Basin in the southwest is virtually unexplored because of the thick cover of non-petroliferous young sediments, but in 1976 British Tri-Central contracted for exploration in the adjoining western province of Farah. Next, the American Cities Service showed interest in explorations in the Dasht-e-Margo and Registan   areas of the southwest;! negotiations had reached  the contract stage
 when the  1978 coup occurred, putting an end to    these efforts. Since   1978,
 additional oil has been found in the Tirpul basin to the west of Herat, although the basin is small.
      Oil  production of a few thousand tons per     year in  the north, in the
 existing  fields alone, rose slowly but steadily   by about  20 percent a  year
 throughout the 1970s. In 1977 proven oil reserves were reported to be only about 10-15 million tons- an insignificant 5 percent of, say, those of Brunei or Dubai, and a mere thousandth of Kuwait's* but at least enough for domestic needs.
                                                 COAL
      Coal deposits in Afghanistan are vast and have barely begun to be exploited. There are about 100 million tons in high-grade proven reserves, with another 400 million tons in the ''probable" category. Coal occurs across northern Afghanistan from Herat to Badakshan in nine major deposits plus 36 coal occurrences. Except for the millenia of extensive wood-cutting (which deforested the country), coal mining is the oldest established modern fuel industry in Afghanistan, begun some 60 years ago. In 1954, about 17,000 tons of coal were produced; in 1965, about 80,000 tons. From 1965 to the present, production has fluctuated erratically because of management problems, a desperate manpower situation caused by abysmally low pay scales for arduous and unpleasant work and, since 1979, war. The coal is used iri decent plants, textile mills, a cotton mill, a sugar refinery, the government bakery in Kabul, and in briquettes of compressed fragments for domestic use,
                                                COPPER
      There is evidence 'that the copper deposits at ,Ainak in eastern Logar province, south of Kabul, were mined as Idng as 4,000 years ago. The use of copper in Afghanistan goes back to the Bronze age, and indeed some scholars have speculated that bronze may have been invented t,here. Copper was usecLfor coins, spears, cooking utensils, and other objects, and Ainak's copper is mentioned in a Chinese manuscript of the third or fourth century A.D.
                          ■ ' . '    , -                 , t ,
         ' ' . ' ’                      83              .. .
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AFGHANJtKflfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
      In the 1970s, as plans developed for an industrial infrastructure . in Afghanistan, planning also began for the ^ exploitation of Ainak copper. Once again, the Soviets willingly provided financing for geological surveys to determine the extent of t;he reserves. The original estimates indicated that the Ainak reserves total more than six million tons of copper metal in comparatively high-grade 0.7 percent to 1.2 percent grade ore. Afghan planning proceeded for the development of the mines and the creation of a smelting and refinery complex to produce copper for export as well as domestic use, using power generated by the American-built Kajaki hydroelectric project in the Helmand Valley, the thermal power plant at Mazar-e-Sharif, and other generating stations around Kabul. Only the mining of the ore and its concentration were to be done in Afghanistan. The concentrate would then be shipped into the Soviet Union, where it would be smelted and refined.
      In an interesting recent development, Soviet documents captured by the Afghan Resistance show the importance attached to these deposits. One such document (translated from the Russian) reads as follows:
      To Comrade Mirsahib Karval from 19.07.81 in charge of the Central Zone of the city of Kabul and Kabul Province. Copy to Major General Comrade Boyarov IM.
      Workers, State employees and techno-engineering workers of the Ainak Group, comprising about 400 persons in all, inspired by the decision of the PDPA (People's Democratic Party of 'Afghanistan), have, during the course of the years following the April Revolution, in spite of the complicated situation in the Province, been prospecting for copper ore in the Ainak despots. Thanks to the selfless work carried out by the collective, as directed by the Group, deposits of some 11.5 million tons of copper metal have been discovered as part of the mineral wealth of Ainak. In size, richness and copper content the deposits appear to be the largest in the world. (Emphasis added by authors) Prospecting for the deposit continues. At present work round the clock with boring installation has permitted bore holes up to 1,000 meters to be drilled. With the aim of keeping the drilling installations working non-stop, it is essential twice a month to introduce hot lubrication materials (ICM) into the drilling pipes, provide spare parts and provisions, and at the same time send drilling brigades away for a rest and at the appropriate time arrange for their relief. The Department of Geological Prospecting at the Ministry of Mines and Industry is preparing to deliver to Ainak essential materials and move drilling brigades there. A column of eight motor vehicles will be ready to leave Kabul for Ainak on Monday, 20 July, at 9*00 am. The Ministry requests you to provide the necessary protection for the column en route to Ainak and facilitate the unloading of the materials brought there and transfer of the ICM to the containers which the Group possesses. It is necessary to allow some two to two-and-a-half hours to perform this operation and escort the column returning to Kabul with the relieved drilling brigade.
      With respect. Ministry of Mines and Industry, 18 July, 1981.
                                                   ■ ■ \ ... > ■■
                                                          M.E. Danesh.
      Ainak appears capable of producing 11.5 million tons of copper. This should
84
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 IMGIIjlllJtHAQ                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
 be compared with the world's largest open pit mine, the Bingham Canyon Pit in Utah. The Soviets have expended considerable effort to bring the mine onstream; as recently as July 1986 they proposed to bring power transmission lines from the Soviet border "to benefit Ainak".
      The Afghan freedom fighters are well aware of the significance of Ainak, hoyever, and have brought considerable force against it. (In May 1986, for example, they brought down a helicopter gunship protecting a convoy there, killed five Soviet engineers and captured one).
                                                  IRON
      Geologic reports show five deposits, 52 occurrences, and 12 showings of iron in Afghanistan. By far the most prominent is the Hajigak iron ore reserve in the central massif * (This rich deposit was first discovered more .than 150 years ago but its inaccessible location high in the eastern end of the Koh-i-Baba range discouraged interest until ita rediscovery in the early 1960s.) Preliminary surveys- carried out by the Soviets, as usual- quickly determined the size and purity of the deposits; the ore is largely high-grade, directly shippable pyrite-magnetite with an unusually high grade of 67% iron. Measured reserves are about 111 million tons and speculative reserves (based on reasonable geologic inference) are more than two billion tons. As a comparison, the total production of ore from Minnesota's Mesabi Range- the foundation of the American steel industry- during the 73 years from its, development till the mid-1960s amounted to 2.4 billion tons. Thus, in reserves, Hajigak' may represent the third-largest known iron ore deposit in the world; meanwhile, both U.S. and European sources are in decline. Dolomitic limestone, required in the preparation for industrial iron, is available nearby# and £oth coking coal and natural gas for coking are potentially available.
              '                 •         .              .            •    I
      Until the Communist takeover, international markets showed considerable interest in the development of Hajigak, particularly if better roads, a railway, or a slurry pipeline could be constructed to solve the problem of access. With a steel mill under construction in Karachi, its regional economic significance was further increased. A France-German company prepared development and exploitation studies for Hajigak, recommending that after a concentration process# the ore should be transported to Doab, less than 31 miles (50 km) to the north, whete the blast furnace complex would be located; the necessary coking coal would, come from Shah Bashek and Dara-e-Suf, northwest of Doab.
      The development of Hajigak became a major component of Daoud's Seven-Year Plan. An infrastructure of roads, railroads, and bther transport facilities for mining# processing# and marketing would have to be created, along with the manufacturing plants, housing and storage. To be economically feasible# the blast furnace would have to have a capacity of one million tons per year. Electric power and energy sources such as coke, coal and gas would have to be developed as well. Financing would be necessary to make it all possible.
      By 1975-76, Daoud and others in the Afghan government had at last decided to reduce, not increase, Afghan economic dependency on the Soviet Union. They therefore looked elsewhere for help with Hajigak, Iran agreed to provide credit
                                                   ‘ 85
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANVOL. 5 NO. 1
 for railroad construction, a project that would cost nearly a billion dollars* The French company SOFRERAIL did the surveys and designs for an integrated rail network that was to extend eventually from Herat to Kandahar and Kabul (near the routes of the present roads), with a spur to Hajigak and connecting links to the Iranian, Soviet and Pakistani borders. In 1976-77, Afghan departments began work on roads. It was hoped that eventually the remaining funding would come through a consortium of French, German, American, and Japanese companies, and that iron ■billets would be exported to Iran, Pakistan (where the Soviets were building the Karachi steel mill, since completed), the USSR, and other possible world markets•
      It was an enormous project, initially putting a heavy burden on national resources but with great potential benefits. The project was therefore planned to develop along with the development of the infrastructure and (energy resources, gradually increasing production capacity according to the availability of export markets. Newer and more advanced reaction techniques were to be used for the production of sponge iron, utilizing Afghan natural gas instead of coke in order to make initial smaller-scale sponge iron production-as little as 200,000 tons per,year or less- economically feasible.
                                               CEMENT
      Afghanistan has huge supplies of limestone and coal With which to produce plentiful cement. The demands of modern development led to the first Afghan cement production in 1958. By 1966, production had risen to 158,000 tons per year, fey 1977, eight quarries and two plants were in operation, at Pul-e-Khumri and near Jabul Saraj and the Pul-i-Khumri plant was being enlarged by a Czech group. Two other  major plants were planned to come on stream in the 1980s: one
 in Herat with a  210,000 ton capacity and a second  Kandahar .plant of 840,000
 tons. These plants were expected to provide a sizeable export surplus after domestic demands were met.
      In 1981, a  most peculiar trade  protocol for  cement was signed between
 Afghanistan and the Soviet Union: an  agreement to exchange each Other's cement
 production. This odd arrangement can  be understood  when it  is realized that
 Soviet cement is of inferior quality and cannot be sold on world markets, whereas Afghan cement is manufactured according to international standards and can be sold on world markets to the hard currency benefits of the Soviets.
                                              CHROMIUM
      The Logar deposit near Kabul is not large, only about 180,000 tons of 42 percent ore (although unpublished work by German geologists indicated tonnages two and one-half times, greater than this), but its presence has been- of interest to many for Some time, primarily because it is a strategic mineral, essential
 to high-grade steely manufacture including all military steel. The United States and the West are without significant supplies of chromium and are dependent on those of southern Africa, which is an unstable region.
86
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
                                          PRECIOUS STONES
     Gem-quality emerald, ruby, lapis lazuli, kunzite, tourmaline, aquamarine, serpentine, and garnet are known, and some deposits are of considerable significance. Large numbers of these stones, which had been put on display in Kabul by the Tarski regime and had an estimated value of $60 million, were seized by the Soviets shortly after their invasion. At present, as a result of the war, most of the precious stone deposits are under Resistance control and off-limits to the regime in Kabul. The extreme portability and salability of the gems is. helping the war efforts of the Afghan freedom fighters. But in the event of a Soviet victory, the high quality and rarity of many of the stones (especially lapis lazuli and emerald) represent a future hard-currency revenue source for Moscow if mined carefully and marketed properly. They similarly represent a potentially significant economic resource for a free Afghanistan.
                                    OTHER STRATEGIC MINERALS
     Numerous other important mineral deposits occur in Afghanistan, some of which are strategic, others merely useful for Afghan development or for balance of payments. The deposits of leSd, zinc, molybdenum, tin, beryllium, desium, rubidium, lithium^ tantalum, barite, celestite, asbestos, magnesite, muscovite, and gold all look potentially attractive. Both gold and silver were mined in ancient times.
     Among the .most, strategic resources, and therefore* among those most difficult to assess from afar, are the reported uranium' deposits• The Khanneshin volcanic complex on the lower Helmand has been reported to be rich in uranium and other rare earths, but quantities are unknown and, until recently, reports and maps of the deposits were unavailable. Other uraniumrrich deposits have reportedly been looted by the Soviets from time to time since the invasion, but little in the way of unclassified data is available.
                                            HYDRO-POWER
     Three main drainage basins originate in Afghanistan:
 * the Turkestan drainages of the Amu Darya (Oxus River) and other ;small peripheral drainages, all of which flow northward toward or into the USSR:
 * south and eastward~flowing Indus River drainages of the Kabul, Kurram and Gumal Rivers*
             '                              *                .   . ,  I
 * the westward Afghan-Iranian Plateau drainages of the Helmand and other small systems that flow into the Seistan depression. It is significant that of these three, all significant to Afghanistan and its neighbor^, only the Turkestan basin of the Oxus seems to be receiving much development attention at present from the Soviets in Afghanistan* projects there will affect both northern Afghanistan and Soviet Turkestan.*
     The nineteenth century choice of a major river, the Amu Darya, as the boundary between the Russian empire and Afghanistan caused many development
                                            87
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 fifGIIJIffJ1HAII               VOL. 5 NO. 1
problems later for both countries; at one rime the border had to be renegotiated because of river channel changes. The Afghans were never allowed, to use much of the river water:   both  Tsarist  and Soviet  regimes; wanted  as much of it as
possible downstream and had problems because they did not control the headwaters, which are in Afghanistan.
     Along its course, the Amu Darya is fed by a variety of rivers from both the USSR and Afghanistan. Approximately 25-30% of the total runoff is contributed by the Afghan part of the basin.
     Afghanistan's estimated total hydroelectric potential is 2,500 Mw, not including the massive canyons of Badakhshan through which the Amu Darya flows and which greatly increases the hydroelectric potential of the region. As of 1975, only about 9%of that potential- 240 Mw- had been developed. Ten hydroelectric plants had been built, more than half of them on the Kabul River system (which contains 30% of the total potential excluding the Amu). Two more were on the Helmand (28% of the potential) and two in the north (38 percent of the potential). The problem, as always, was financing.
                                           88
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
LATEST FACTS, FIGURES ON SAMANGAN PROVINCE
         EDITOR*S NOTE: The following is a summary of a book published by the SALAM of the United Nations on the present socio-economic situation of the Samangan province. This is a lengthier account of Afghan provinces than the ones presented earlier in the Afghan Jehad• The survey is based on studies in villages of Dara-e-Souff Hazrat-e-Sul tan» Khulm» Roye Doab and Samangan areas:
 « t
                                    A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
     Samangan province is located in the north of the country bordering the Soviet Union. The province is part of the agro-ecological region of the north. Its total area is 15,465 square Kilometers with a density of 17.6 per square kilometer. Administrating the province is divided into four woloswalis (districts) and two alaqadaris (sub-districts). Aibak is the 'center, of Samangan province. The altitude of the province ranges between 305 and 2230 meters.
                                   SMALL SCALE RURAL INDUSTRY
     Modern carpets, g^lims and Karakul skins are produced in almost all the districts while leather and leather products, handloom cloth, silk and vegetable oil are produced . in some districts. Besides being engaged in agriculture, the people also breed sheep, goats, horses, donkeys and cattle. Wool is exported to Kabul and other provinces. There is also a large coal mine. Its extraction has stopped after 1979.
     The main exports are wool, carpets, glims, pistachios, almonds, dry apricots, apriccts and pomegranates.
     A total of 19,556 persons from the province' becaine refugees, 93 per■cent of whom are based in Pakistan and the rest have gone to Iran.
                                  EFFECTS OF WAR ON POPULATION
     Those who were killed in the war form sl/ percentage of total population
                                           89
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AiGtIANJtHAD                             VOL. 5 NO. 1
 ranging from 1.6 to  6.7.   In all 4,820 persons were killed                 and 1,808 were
 disabled. Some areas in Samangan district around the main highway leading to the Soviet border are also mined.
                                             FOOD SUPPLY
      According to a survey  conducted in 1990, an average farmer in Samangan
 province purchases about one quarter of his family's wheat supplies from the market. In 1990 94% of the farmers in the province declared that they were living below subsistence level while 2% considered themselves to be above that level. This may partly be linked to the locust attack on rainfed wheat.
      In some parts of the province people sell sheep and goats in the market to purchase food. In these areas the situation regarding food supply has been so fragile that while there were no significant population' movements in the district due to the war, some families have migrated to other areas inside the country due to food shortage.
      Some other areas  of the province are better                  placed in terms of fruit
 production and high quality fruit grown there is being exported to Kabul, India and Pakistan.
      Samangan is the  only food exporting district                and wheat, mung beans and
 melons a^e exported from there to other areas in Afghanistan. The district also exports fruit to domestic and foreign markets.
      The food items reported to be in short supply include wheat, beans, dry milk, lentils, mutton, beaf and spinach.
      There is a great deal of variation in the prices of various food items in different districts .( The price range is determined by the security conditions in the area. The extensive damage to the infra-structure and transportation system due to the war also obstructs smooth supply of the goods.
      Goats, sheep and cows are also an important source of food in the province. The animals are used for direct consumption as well as means of, exchange to purchase wheat and cereals. Cows, goats and sheep are available in all the districts without a significant difference in the prices of these animals.
                                AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
               . • ' . ■ 1; / ,
      Land in Samangan province consists of mountains, valleys, pastures and flat
 areas. Two small rivers with meagre supply of water pass through the province which during the summers become almost dry. Inspite of apparent differences in the physical characteristics of various districts there are no significant corresponding . variations in the productivity of agriculture. Most of the cultivable land in the province is, non irrigated with desert like climate. Most of the districts are deficient in food.
      Sixty-^six per cent of the cultivable land is used for seasonal crops. Another 32% of land is kept as fallow and the remaining two percent is used for orchards.
                                        90
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfGHflNtKHflfl                        VOL. 5 NO. 1
      The irrigation system in Samangan province consists of two small rivers, karezes, canals, juis, springs, water reservoirs and pools. The rivers have very limited supply of water. Water reservoirs and pools are used to store rain water and melted snows and Karezes are,used as channels for the stored water. There is scarcity of water for irrigation.
      Wheat, rice, potato and alfalfa are among the most important seasonal crops. Ninety-three per cent of cultivable land is used for wheat cultivation.
      Major constraints in agriculture in Samangan province are scarcity of water for irrigation, destruction of the irrigation system caused by the war, lack of extension services for providing prptection against crop and animal diseases and locust attacks, lack of improved seeds and fertilizer and absence of a developed water management system.                      1
      Samangan province is situated at Afghanistan's most important trade route with the Soviet Union. Fruit, animal products and handicrafts are exported from Samangan to other areas of Afghanistan and foreign markets.    <
                                ROAD TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATION
      Buses, trucks, jeeps horses and donkeys are used for transportation purposes in the province. Transport system is important not only for trade, marketing and travelling but for the very survival of people in Samangan because most of the districts are food deficient and most of the wheat is purchased by the villagers from traders outside the village. A dependable transport system is also needed for trade with the Soviet Union.   .
      Most of the roads passing through various districts of the province are dirt roads which are not maintained by any agency and many bridges and culverts have been broken along the route. The major paved road is the highway coming from Kabul and going to Faryab via Mazar-e-Sharif.
      Communication system for civilians is almost non-existent in the province. Whatever basic communication facilities existed in any part of the province have been damaged due to the war, Now some communication facilities are being used by mujaheddin and the government. The only means of communication by the government and the mujaheddin is’ the wireless system.
                                     ENERGY AND POWER SUPPLY
      Khulm is the only district provided with electricity. Usual energy sources in use in households are kerosene, firewood, coal and animal dung*
      Water from wells is commonly obtained in the province. Small streams are available as water source in some districts, people also obtain water from springs and melted snow almost throughout the province. Hauz (water pond) as a source of water supply is also used in some areas.         x
                           DAMAGE TO SHaTERS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS
      Substantial damage has been done to shelters and other buildings due to the
                          . • \ '' ' ’ ■ ■ ‘
                                                 ■91
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHANJtHAfl                          VOL. 5 NO. 1
 war. In 1990  30% shelters had sutYered heavy or light damages. Twenty inree
 per cent of the shops were completely destroyed while another 20% had suffered partial damage. Almost all the schools and office buildings had been destroyed. Of the restaurant, 47% had been destroyed. The mosques suffered the least damage. '
                                HEALTH FACILITIES AND SERVICES
      There are very few health facilities in the province and the existing ones are generally very poorly equipped in terms of qulified staff and equipment. There has been a significantly large number of casualties due to the war. The population has suffered a great deal in the absence or inadequacy of health facilities.
      There are in all eight clinics in the province of which five are in Samangan district alone. Two districts do not have any clinic. Only Samangan district could boast of offering medical services with a relatively wider scope. The hospitals there offer surgery, tuberculosis treatment and dental treatment besides outdoor treatment. Mobile first aid facility is also available in the district. Only outdoor treatment is available in two districts.
      Respiratory problems and persistent headaches are common ailments. Malnutrition in children and anemia are also frequently reported. Measles and tuberculosis are common in some districts.
      The prices and availability of medicines varies from one district to the other.
                                     EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES
      The three types of educational institutions in Samangan province include the mosques, the macirasas and primary schools. Mainly religious instruction is given to children in the mosque schools whereas in madrasas young males are given religious instruction and are also taught some other subjects. There are in all 62 primary level schools. The number of teachers ranges between two and .four in various schools. The enrolment per school ' is 126 for. the whole of the province. There are no schools for females in three districts. There are five male students to every female student (enrolled. Of the total eligible males only 29% were attending schools while the proportion of eligible females in schools was only 6%.                  •
                        RESETTLEMENT NEEDS AND PLANNING IMPLICATIONS
      Samangan province has generally escaped attention of most international agencies involved in resettlement and construction planning in Afghanistan. Therefore very little information is available on conditions inside the province.    -               -  /
      Samangan is divided in terms of administrative control between mujaheddin and the Kabul qovernment. The latter controls manv key areas. However the people have carried on with many social and economic transactions across this division. Many of the small industry products and fruit grown in the province are
                                                         92
 pCTOBER-DEOEMBER. 1991 AfGHANJtHflO '                          VOL. 5 NO. 1
 regularly exported to the areas under Kabul government control and across the border to the markets in the neighbouring Soviet Union. The trade, however, has suffered considerably due to the war. The main highway linking the, province to the Soviet Union was scene of many battles leading to its destruction at many places. The war also displaced many craf*tsmen.
      Sufficient water* has never been available in the' province for irrigation. The situation has worsened as water channels have been destroyed or seriously damaged in the war. There is acute shortage of manpower in agricultural sector.
        .. . ' ' . . • ' / . . • •     . -                      ' • * * ■
      There is ^shortage of food especially of wheat in most of the districts.
      The condition of health facilities is very poor especially in areas under control of mujaheddin. In many areas there is no health facility. No special arrangements for treatment of women exist. There are no immunization facilities for children either. Most-essential medicines are scarce and those available are rather costly.            ’ .  ■ ' *
      Trained teachers-and educational material are in short supply and buildings are in a state of decay.
                          sectoral Meeds and rehabilitation program
      Food and Agricultural Organization has implemented a project aimed at controlling locust and pests attacks in the province. But the donor assistance is not matched by the resettlement requirements. The next important area of UN intervention in the agricultural sector is the supply of irrigation water, which is scarce in most districts. Primitive methods of,water storage can be replaced with modern practices.                                  1
      Importance of road infrastructure in Samangan is rather high as,people of the province depend heavily on trade with other provinces and the Soviet Union.
      Provision of essential health Services is another crucial area for UN intervention< In education, repair of school buildings, training of teachers and provision of educational material are the activities requiring attention. ,
       OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGHANJEHAD                             VOL.  5  NO. 1
.Tl) 'l • '              ‘
  PRICE SURVEY OF FOOD PRODUCTS IN AFGHANISTAN
              EDITOR'S NOTE:    Following   is a commodity price teport in
              Afghanistan for the last quarter of 1990 prepared by Tom Harringon for Development Alternatives9 Inc. (DAI) and the Office of AID Representative for Afghanistan.
g
g
a
                                           INTRODUCTION
           This report shows basic trends ahd patterns in the prices of agricultural, commodities in Afghanistan, by province. Informal surveys with Afghan traders, mujaheddin, farmers,- and other source^ coming from Afghanistan.provide monthly price and exchange rate data. However, data collected under existing unstable conditions should be .used with discrimination.
                                       QUARTERLY HIGHLIGHTS
              . ■ .               . . '' • •      •       .             .   •     r
      *    The December 1990 afghani tp Pakistan rupee average monthly exchange, rate
           was two and one-half times greater than in January 1989.
      *    The afghani Vo rupee trend of.devaluation in 1990 parallelled that of 1989.
       *   The afghani dropped 20% between October and December, compared       with the
            previous quarter's 8% decline.
       *   This quarter, the average monthly wheat price rose 14%. Mutton increased 8% and beef / 10$.
       *   Reduced availability and demand for fertilizer during the quarter resulted in lower prices. Phosphate decreased 11% and urea, 26%•
       *   December 1990 average prices for commodities topped December   1989 levels by
            a wide margin.; Fertilizer prices were 80 to 200% higher^.and wheat and meat
            prices were 45 'to 55% higher than a year ago.
                                  FOURTH QUARTER EXCHANGE RATES
$          The -afghani dropped 20% against the rupee between October     and  December,
       up-dating la^t quarter's prediction that devaluation had slowed;. By December's end, the exchange rate reached 30 afghanis to one rupee. Monthly exchange rates
*r ' ' • "
                                                      94
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AIGIIANJtHAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
    averaged 26.0 Afs/rupee in October, 27.4 in November, and 26.6 in December.
         Overall, the Afs/rupee 1990 exchange rates paralleled the devaluation trend in. 1989. /                                           ‘ '          . -
         During the quarter, the afghani to US dollar exchange rate, calculated by multiplying the Afs/rupee rate and the rupee/dollar rate, moved from 582 to 711 Afs/dollar- a 22% decline in the value of the afghani. Higher afghani to dollar rates reported in Afghanistan reflect the problems of transportation, communications, and security, which increase the risks and cost of exchanging foreign currencies.
                         FOURTH-QUARTER AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PRICES
    WHEAT: Wheat remains Afghanistan's most dominant crop. In the past, it occupied up to 60% of the country's total crop area. More recent surveys reveal that 70 to 95% of farmers grow wheat, which makes the wheat price an important indicator for agricultural and living conditions.
         As expected, wheat prices increased in each province in the fourth quarter, a normal pattern of price increases following seasonal low prices during the harvest season in the preceding months. This increase, ranging from zero% in Balkh, Kapisa and Wardak to 53% in Nangarhar, averaged 14% overall.
         High prices in Faryab, Jauzjsn and Samangan provinces reflect the impact of infestation and drought. In other provinces, regional outbreaks of fighting.have driven prices higher. Toward December, prices increased in eastern provinces near Kabul where < emerging conflict ensued. Fighting in Kandahar has driven up wheat prices in this province relative to its neighbors, Helmand, Uruzgan and Zabul. To the far west, areas without infestation or fighting, prices remained below the national average..
         The wide range in prices observed is an indicator of the regional nature of wheat markets in Afghanistan. For example, the highest reported price ,for September was Afs. 1,400 per seer in Jauzjan and Samangan, two times, larger than the lowest wheat price of Afs. 700 per seer in Kunar. In part this regionalism has been reinforced by the isolating effects of war- the general destruction of roads, communications, and increased costs and risks of transporting goods-which exacerbates the potential impact of regional wheat production shortfalls.
                                             MUTTON AND BEEF
         Mutton and beef prices tend to move at the sajne rate, though mutton remains about one and one,-quarter times higher than beef. In general, fourth-quarter prices of' both commodities continued to increase reaching their highest levels of the year. The, eastern provinces, Kabul, Laghman, Logar, Nangarhar, Paktia, and Paktika, had the highest.prices.
    MUTTON: The, national average mutton price in the fourth quarter reached Afs.977 per kilogram, an increase of 11% over the preceding quarter. "Overall, fourth-quarter mutton prices increased an average 8%, with Farah rising 25% and
                     ■                     95
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGlIAN                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
      Laghman, 20%.
           In December, Kabul, Paktia and Paktika reported the highest mutton prices-Afs. 1,300, more than one and one-half times Uruzgan's lowest price. December's national average price per kilogram of mutton increased 55 percent .from a year ago. ' '              1                                                    4
      BEEF: The national average beef price in the fourth quarter reached'afs.778 per kilogram, an increase of . 9.4% percent over the preceding quarter. Overall, fourth quarter beef prices increased an average 10%, with a 33 percent, rise in Nangarhar and 22% in Paktika.
           in December, Nangarhar reported the highest beef price at Afs 1,200. Paktia and Paktika followed with Afs. 1,100 per kildgram each. December's national, average price per kilogram of beef increased 47% f^om a year ago.
                           FOURTH-QUARTER AGRICULTURAL INPUT PRICES
      OXEN: The national average price for oxen in the fourth quarter was Afs. 160,000 per head. Monthly average prices increased only 3% over the .quarter.
           December's highest price per head climbed to Afs. 185,000 in-Kabul and Afs. 180/000 in Nangarhar^ 1.2 times higher than the prices in Jauzjan and Ghazni. In 1990, oxen prices showed little volatility, in general. However, at the end of. the year, the national average price of oxen per head had increased 34% from a year ago.'                                                ..  .
           Despite widespread loss of farm animals' after a decade of war, oxen prices still increase more slowly than other agricultural inputs. One possibility is that farmers have replaced'oxen power with tractor power, either as owners of tractors or on a custom hire basis.
      UREA: The fourth quarter national average price for urea stood at approximately Afs. 3,500 per 50 kilogram bag. Monthly prices" dropped 26% on .average during the quarter. This quarter's price decrease, equaling last quarter's increase, reflects the fluctuating -seasonal demand for fertilizer. De'mand ceases soon after autumn planting and generally, farmers do not make advance purchases during the winter months.         j                             1
            In December 1990, the national average urea price stood 82% higher than the year before. The highest reported price for December was Afs. 4,500 in Helmand, three times higher than the lowest price in Balkh..
            Because of the dominance of the sole urea factory In. Mazar-e-Sharif, the wide range of urea prices follow a marked geographic pattern. Prices near the Mazar-e-Sharif urea factory in Balkh remain low, and rise gradually along the main transportation routes from Balkh to Kabul and Kandahar.. Because the Kabul government is unable to control fertilizer distribution effectively, imported urea and Afghan produced Urea sold in' the black marker contribute; to higher prices in areas distant from Mazar^e-Sharif.
  . *
            It is interesting ' to compare Afghanistan urea prices with market-based
96
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 AFGHANJfHAfl                  ■<      VOL.  5 NO. 1
     Pakistan urea prices. Using the December average exchange rate of 28.6 Af s./Rs., Afghan urea cost Rs. 106 per 50 kilogram bag on average for December compared with approximately Rs. 160 in Pakistan. At the low end of the range in Balkh and neighboring provinces, urea prices were on the order of Rs. 52 to Rs. 91. In some of the eastern border provinces, urea prices ranged higher, from Rs. 122 to Rs. 167. It is only in these areas close to the Pakistan border that prices approach Pakistan levels.
     PHOSPHATE FERTILIZERS: The national average phosphate fertilizer price for the . fourth quarter was approximately Afs. 7,260 per 50 kilogram bag. Monthly average prices decreased in November and December after reaching their highest levels for the year in,September-October. Price decreases averaged 11, with anl up to 30% drop in some provinces.
         Limited availability of phosphate . fertilizer in* market place and. hence price data for the quarter combined with the decrease in the observed price point to diminished trade. The sporadic data coverage and lack of . off-season demand make any link between geographic pattern and price difficult to discern during the fourth quarter.
                                       1990 PRICE LEVEL
         Afghanistan has^experienced a steady and high rate of inflation since the late 1970s. The average annual rate of inflation for 1978-79 through 1986-87 was 14%. Prices increased 27% in 1984-85. Not surprisingly, high price hikes between, 1989 and 1990 for the commodities covered in this price report- wheat, mutton, beef, oxen, utea and phosphatic ferbilizers-indiCate that high levels of * inflation remain a problem for consumers and' producers.
         An informal "price index" covering these commodities shows a 78% price increase between December 1989 and December 1990. Consumer items- wheat, mutton, beef- went up 49% in this one-year period. Production inputs^- oxen* urea and phosphatic fertilizers- climbed 106%, driven by large increases in phosphate fertilizer prices.
                                       1990 WHEAT PRICES
         Northern provinces-   Badghis, Faryab,        Jauzjan and Samangan- affected by
    infestation and drought,   had the 'highest        average wheat prices   in 1990. High
    prices in Narigarhar and Kabul reflect,the military situation, particularly the difficulty of transporting goods. Central provinces and Badakshan, not major wheat producers, likely relied on imports of wheat to meet demand and therefore experienced higher prices  during the year,       Baghlan, Balkh, Takhar and Kunduz had
    lower 'than average wheat  prices,  as well as far western Farah,        Helmand, Herat
    and Nimroz indicating adequate production.
         During 1988 through 1990, Afghanistan1s wheat price inflated steadily in terms of rupees per kilogram of wheat. At current Afs/rupee exchange rates, the price is approaching a level that is double Pakistan's government-fixed price of approximately, three rupees per kilogram. Despite inflation, the seasonal price cycles are still evident in lower than average prices during the May through August harvest period, followed by higher than average prices in the fall and
 OCTOBER DECEMBER» 1991 AtCllflNJIHAO                                              VOL.   5  NO.  1
        winter months.
                                  1990 FERTILIZER PRICES
             A combination of increased demand and reduced supplies are driving fertilizer prices higher., Crop area expansion- a result of land and irrigation rehabilitation, increased seasonal migration for farming, and repatriation-leads to greater demand. The encouragement of farmers by development agencies to us<3 more fertilizers per unit of land in combination with imprpved seed, contributes as well.
             On the supply side for urea, Afghanistan’s production is limited to one fertilizer factory in Mazar-e-Sharif, which produces between 100,000-120,000 metric tons per annum. Although it was rumored in 1990. that 10,000 metric tons were to be exchanged or sold to Korea, only 2,000 metric tons were reported to have been supplied. Because current urea production supplies are less than .agricultural need, these kinds, of arrangements have the potential to drive urea prices much higher than current levels and to encourage urea imports.
             Reduced supplies of phosphatic fertilizers result from the behavior of other countries. Afghanistan imports phosphatic fertilizers through Iran, the Soviet Union, and Pakistan. The several varieties of phosphatic fertilizer available differ only in amounts of nitrogen, and phosphate, and generally, one type can be substituted for another,
             Afghanistan has relied on the Soviet Union to supply much of its phosphate fertilizers during the war. Rumors Of lower supplies for the 1990 planting season offer one explanation for rapid price increases observed in Afghanistan between September and October, especially in provinces north of the Hindu Kush.
             Looking ahead, continued crop land and irrigation rehabilitation will signal increasing demand for fertilizers and other agricultural inputs. Increases in Pakistan's phosphate fertilizer prices expected inOctober-November of 1991, the volume of fertilizer shipments through aid agencies, the terms Of Soviet phosphate fertilizer exports to Afghanistan, and fertilizer procurement policies pursued by the Kahiul government, will affect supplies and prices during
       ' 1991.                  '        ' - ' .
                   , . - 1 ■ ... . • • • . \ ■
             However, limited urea production, ladk of foreign exchange, bureaucratic■' controls, end potential deals with other countries, indicate that fertilizer price increases faster than the rate of inflation'-will , likely continue through the next planting season and beyond.

                                                    98
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL* 5 NO. 1
 INSTITUTIONS WORKING
   FOR AFGHANISTAN!
  NAF JAMS MSH MDM SERVE SNI
EDITOR1S NOTE: Hundreds of Institutions are busy in Peshawar in various kinds of help to Afghans. The ARIC in a publication has produced the profiles of many of these institutions• The following are the Fifth instalment profiles of these institutions.
                           HAF
         HELP THE AFGHANS FOUNDATION (HAF) was founded in 1984 as a relief agency for the victims of war in Afghanistan, especially women and children. HAF does not implement projects itself but funds relief organizations which are predominantly working in health care.
         In 1986, HAF began supporting the Children's Clinic of the Afghan Health 4 .d Social Assistance Organization in Peshawar. (Since mid-1987, the Clinic has had the co-sponsorship of HELP of West Germany on a 50/50 basis.) In 1988, HAF be An to fund two Basic Health Units, along with a milk distribution project in Aza Khel, through AHSAO. These BHU's supply basic preventive and curative health care to Afghan refugees through an active vaccination program, malaria control, health education, and an MCH project.
         The maternal and child health project (MCH.) involves antenatal care,1 assistance in deliveries, an "under-two" clinic and a training program for traditional birth attendants - TBA's - co-sponsored by SCA and UNICEF) . The under-two clinic has an active case detection, and treatment program for malnourished children, which includes frequent home visits and the supervised preparation of meals with the mothers.                     ■
         Besides these on-going projects, HAF sponsors agencies on a- more incidental basis, e.g.,; the construction of a primary school in Munda camp and food distribution in Afghanistan.
                                     •  i                    ■        ...
    Funding: Dutch Government, Stichting Vluchteling, Liliane Fund.
       OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991     , AFGHANll[M10                     VOL. 5 NO. 1
                                          JAMS
       JAPAN - AFGHAN MEDICAL SERVICE (JAMS) was founded in October 1986 as Afghan Leprosy Service. In the beginning, it, operated as an extension program for leprosy control in NWFP. The service was in response to the: influx of Afghan refugees and increase, of registered leprosy patients.
           Initially, the activity in the camps was primarily the treatment of akin deseases and leprosy. However, since it was difficult to look after only leprosy patients, leaving aside other infectious diseases, JAMS expanded its activity to include other common diseased, minor and reconstructive surgery, and, at this point, the name of the organization was changed.
           The Japan-Afghan Medical Service operates a 20-bed hospital, a daily outpatient department and executes a ipedical survey program in the camps as a . regular outreach program. JAMS has supplied its hospital/clinic with a well-functioning laboratory with modern diagnostic equipment. Expatriate doctors have joined the team and1 provide education and 'information to* enhance the knowledge and capabilities of doctors and medical assistants.
           A medical training course began in January 1989. Eighteen students have since graduated; a number are still under training. In a" training program which began in September 1989, medical workers are being trained to work in the rgral areas of Afghanistan in the future.        '
           A nutritional survey of mothers and children is the present focus. It is designed to obtain basic information that will make the planning of future health programs more effective.
           ■ ' ■ ’ * . . .* ; . ; .                                       * - . ' ;
       Funding: solely aS a response of the Japanese people, through private donations.
       MANAGEMENT SCIENCES FOR HEALTH (MSH) established in 1971 as a non-profit institution with the broad goal of supporting public health management innovations, (MSH) currently has nearly 100 professionals employed at its headquarters in Boston * and 17 field offices world-wide. During the 1970's MSH worked in Afghanistan helping to strengthen a national program of basic health care through improvements in training, management systems and essential drug supply. One enduring legacy of the project was the training of dais (indigenous midwives) to provide preventive health services to women and children-health workers who have continued work despite the total disruption of the Afghan health infrastructure over the last decade.
            Through a co-operative agreement with USAID, MSH is entrusted to provide technical and financial humanitarian assistance to expand and strengthen primary health services inside Afghanistan as rapidly as possible and to strengthen, the capability of Afghan organizations to plan, operate, and monitor these expanded services. To achieve the objectives of the Health Sector Support Project, tfSH designed and is implementing, Basic Health Worker training centers, Basic Health Posts, clinics and hospitals; immunization and preventive medicine campaigns.
 100
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 HlulllllVJtllAU                        VOL. 5   NO. 1
     arid mother and child health, programs. Afghan institution building is fin integral part of the project.
         Since the inception of the program in October 1986, over 1400 Basic Health Workers have successfully, completed the three-month course and were deployed . * • inside Afghanistan to set up health posts in each of the twenty-nine provinces.
     To train BHW's, two Pakistan-based arid two Afghanistan-based training centers : have been, established. Two additional centers for Afghanistan are planned. '' Nearly 30,000 mujaheddin were given training' in basic first aid treatment, and .
     10 immunization teams have been sent inside to inoculate women and children. The Project is also supporting a large provincial hospital, three rural hospitals with up to 20 beds and 108.clinics established in twenty-seven of Afghanistan's twenty-^ine provinces. More than 475 metric tons of medical supplies have been repackaged into standard and special kits and shipped by caravan to Afghanistari.
         Ah extensive system is. in place to* monitor MSH-supported facilities and personnel. A base for developing programs for women and children is being established through training of female BHW's, training of dais and the introduction of health services for females and children in MSH-supported clinics and hospitals. An pn-going sustainability study will continue to focus on development of health services that are both technically and economically feasible with foreseeable Afghan resources, supplemented by transitional donor inputs.           •                                                   ■■■_
     Funding: USAID, UNICEF and "some NGOs".
                                               MDM
     MEDECINS DU MONDE (MDM) is a French-based organization, providing general humanitarian aid, but specializing in medical assistance. MDM was founded in the. seventies by Dr. Bernard Kouchner. The organization implements projects in-several continents.
         Since the inception of its Afghan involvement in 1980, MDM has implemented medical projects only within Afghanistan. The initial project was in Wardak ' Province, where Medecins du Monde operated an emergency medical program until 1985. Since this date, MDM has put in place a central hospital with surgical facilities, x-ray equipment and an immunization and T.B. program.
         To extend its services to cover a larger area of the province, MDM has built three dispensaries. These dispensaries are supervised by Afghan nurses, * trained in the MDM hospital and in Pakistan.
         For the last several years, a regional health center has been operating through the combined efforts of a paramedic team of 25 Afghans and French expatriates.                                                  • .
         MDM States that its work in Afghanistan has been possible through the relationship it has with Commander Amin Wardak and. his mujaheddin, and that since it began its work in Afghanistan, Medecins du Monde has been able to work ■with all ethnic and political groups.                              ;  •          V
     Funding: European Community, UN-agencies, and non-governmental funding bodies.
       , 101
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
                SERVE
            SERVING EMERGENCY RELIEF AND VOCATIONAL ENTERPRISES (SERVE) started operations in 1980 with two projects relief aid to newly-arriving refugees and public health. Carpet weaving training started in 1981. During the past nine years SERVE has expanded its work to include the production and distribution of solar ovens, a reafforestation program, an eye hospital and orientation and mobility training for blind Afghan.refugees.
            SERVE has' three major goals-: to continue providing emergency relief help as long as Afghans are arriving in Pakistan in need of Immediate assistance; to meet the on-going needs bf the ipajority of refugees who are . dependent on NGO assistance; and to provide vocational, income-generating Skills.
       1.   Emergency relief; help. The Relief    Project is currently providing     the
            monthly rations to 1,550 newly-arrived families in Shin Dhand Camp as well as dealing with specific needs of smaller groups that are brought to the. attention of SERVE by individual Afghans, CAR and other NGOs•
       2.   On-going needs6 The Afghart Eye Hospital (AEH) sees      an average of 1,850
       t    patients and performs an average of    100 operations   monthly. In 1988 AEH
       v    started, an artificial eye workshop,  the only one in   NWFP. Since 1980 the
            Public Health Project has produced a set of 16 health and hygiene charts in Pashtu and Dari, 13 health and hygiene books in Pashtu and is currently producing these in Dari. The books are used in Afghan schools, and Specific health teaching is cjiven to teachers, students and women in camps in the NWFP, as well as utilized by NGO* s in Pakistan and Afghanistan. A vaccination program for women and children in Kheshki Camp started in September 1989. The Solar Oven Project is currently developing a lightweight, "flute board" oven Suitable for carrying back to Afghanistan. Sheetmetal ovens are manufactured by Afghans in the Solar Oven Workshop.
       3.   Income generating skills to the AfghansThe Carpet Weaving Center has trained 133 Afghan boys in carpet weaving. No longer giving training, the Center provides a marketing service for these boys and other Afghan carpet weavers. The Forestry Project has helped Afghan nurserymen establish 141 fast-growing tree nurseries in the NWFP and. seven, in Afghanistan. The nurserymen sell their tree seedlings to their neighbors. As of September 1989, The Orientation and Mobility program had provided freedom of movement to 89 blind persons. Twenty per cent of these trainees are now earning an income through their own businesses. Where feasible, cross-border work has been established.
       Fundingi             TEAR Fund and Christoffel Blinden Mission, UNHCR and private
                  donations.
SNI
SHELTER Now INTERNATIONAL (SNI) was established in 1979, as an international volunteer relief organization, the aim of which was to provide shelter and other forms of humanitarian aid to those in need. SNI is registered in Australia and the US as a non-profit charitable organization..
                                                     102
      OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991, AfGIIAN lllHAI)                        VOL.  5 NO. 1
           since 1982 SNI has been involved in providing assistance to the Afghan Refugees in Pakistan. Projects include establishing’ of a pre-cadt concrete factory run by Afghans, a housing project for widow, orphan, and disabled refugees, income-?generahion through various construction projects, a large milk distribution program, a basic health and literacy program, a counseling service .. for widows, and a poultry, project.
           In 1989 SNI began implementing -projects inside Afghanistan, Current projects include construction and up-grading of 40 km of road in Kandahar ' province - a joint project .with Mercy Corp internaclonal, repair of 22. kne. of road in Kunar Province, Construction of a pre-cast , concrete roofing factory in the Shinwar district of Nangarhar Province. SNI is also undertaking a .vaccination program in collaboration with. COMDEV International for karakul sheep in Balkh. Additionally, SNI manages construction projects for ,o.ther NGOs both in Pakistan and Afghanistan who are in. need of engineering services but lack' technical expertise* For example, SNI is presently constructing five clinics and two hospitals iii Afghanistan for International Medical Corp.
           As an example of .an' SNI Project is the pre-cast Concrete Factory which whs established in 1983 at Nasir Bagh and began producing modular geodesic domes, to be used in the camps as administration buildings, storage facilities and clinics* This innovative dome is a low-cost, multi-purpose structure that is, now being widely used ih many refugee camps throughout NWFP and other parts of Pakistan. In addition, to the domes, many, other pre-cast items are now produced byi the factory including cbncrete beams and roof slabs, toilet slabs,- well'” rings for sanitation projects, steel framed doors and windows. The factory is managed by our Afghan staff and approximately 200 refugees have regular employment there.                                 ;
      Funding:• private donations, ChristoffelV Bdinden Mission, World Vision.
                       • International, UNHCR, UNDP, WFP and the/ European Community.
           SOLIDARITY AFGHANISTAN/GUIlDE DO RAID (SA/GR) is a humanitarian Association, governed under "a charter dating to 1901. From 1980 to 1987, it acted under the auspices of the Guilds Europeenne du Raid. The mandate of the organization provides for emergency relief to countries where populations are dispossessed due to War or natural disasters. Solidarites-Afghanistan Also collects, and disseminates information about the populations, it otherwise serves. Emergency aid is given in the form of food, along with more long-range development programs in education and agriculture. Emphasis too is given to the re-establishment of physical and social infrastructures.
         . ■      '       ■           1                __                 _ ft     r '
           Humanitarian assistance in Afghanistan is offered in the following sectors:
      1.   Agriculture:   technical  support in irrigation projects. Such projects
           constituted 75% of the total budget in 1988. During 1989, 24 karezes and eight canals were constructed.
           Other agricultural projects:       supply of implements, e.g., tractors,
           harvesters* distribution of seed and fertilizer,t cereals bank, and
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHANJtHAO                    VOL.  5 NO. 1
             management and administration of such support!
        2.   Education: building or otherwise providing educational facilities for between 300 and 1000 pupils according to province, provision of scholarship
            ; materials and salaries for teachers;
        3.   Emergency help: distribution of survival commodities in more than 1000 villages;
        4.   Infrastructures: assistance in rebuilding of physical (roads# bridges) and
             social infrastructures (communications systems).                   >
             Work is done in cooperation with the local commanders# through shooraS and the political parties. Aid is always accomplished through on-site representation of the organization and under the local authority of the population representatives# through the local structures.          ^
        Funding:  private donors, French and o,ther European and American associations,
                  the French Government, the European Community and UN agencies.
                                       SOS/MTA
             SOLIDARITE AFGHANISTAN BELGIUN/MEDICAL TRAINING FOR AFGHANS (SOS/MTA) is a
        Belgian non-governmental organization working in close collaboration with SOS/PG Belgium, another Belgian NGO and with Aide Medicals Internationale (AMI)# a French NGO. (For projects done cooperatively with SOS/PG Belgium, see’ "SOS/PG Belgium-Solidarite Afghanistan in this directory.) Solidarite Afghanis-, tan Belgium, in collaboration with AMI, implements a medical training program for "assistant doctors," titled Medical Training for Afghans. (MTA)
             Participants in the MTA program are recruited inside Afghanistan through the assistance of political parties and/or commanders. The 16-month training course consists of both "theoreticalvcourses" and actual medical experience with patients, provided through a "school-hospital" of 25 beds at Hayatabad. All patient care is medical and pedagogic at the same, time: 1 every ,medical examination# procedure or treatment is made with a teacher-doctor# a translator and one or several students. An out-patient department attends patients both at the hospital and in camps. Students# upon graduation, are sent back into Afghanistan. There, the Assistant Doctors are able to run their own small clinics in their home villages. However, although trained to work alone in remote areas of Afghanistan, they also have the knowledge to run larger hospital, and are thus able to meet various needs of the health structure to be ■established in Afghanistan.                                               >
             Four classes of graduates are already working inside Afghanistan.a total of Materials or supplies and salaries of Assistant Doctors are paid for by the Swedish Committee and/or MSH. Monitoring "inside", is .also provided by the' Swedish Committee and MSH, along with CMC missions, and by Aide Medicale Internationale.
        Funding:  Belgian and French Governments, the European Community# IRC and
                  private Belgian donors.
                                                   104
  i
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 MGIWNJIHAfl                        VOL. 5 NO. 1
                                     SWABAC
    SOUTHERN AND WESTERN AFGHANISTAN AND BALUCHISTAN ASSOCIATION FOR COORDINATION (SWABAC) was formed in Quetta in August, 1988 by 12 non-governmental organizations. About the same time 42 other organizations working for Afghans created a similar body in Peshawar, ACBAR - Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief.                        V ■ -
         SWABAC is a forum for member organizations to discuss their concerns-' including policy, resource management and operational issues >with the ultimate purpose of improving coordination in repatriation and resettlement of Afghan refugees as well,as in refugee matters in Baluchistan.
         Additionally SWABAC is a vehicle for representing NGO's and for expressing their concerns with the various multilateral and bilateral donors and the Government of Pakistan.        :. '
         In cooperation with SWABAC, ACBAR, has create! a database of projects run by its membership both in Afghanistan and in the refugee camps in Pakistan. This database serves as a reference to cross-border humanitarian assistance.
         SWABAC holds a general meeting of all its members once a month. Part of the general meeting is an observers section^ where representatives of UN-agencies, other donors and the Government of Pakistan are invited to make announcements and discuss issues.
         The various Subcommittees-     Medical,   Agricultural, Educational,
    Construction- meet every month to address specific issues. ■
    Funding: UNOCA, ACBAR and membership dues.
                                            SCA
         The SWEDISH COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN (SCA) was founded in 1980 shortly after the soviet invasion, "to contribute to; the re-establishment of the national independence of Afghanis tan ," through information to the Swedish people about conditions in Afghanistan and through humanitarian aid in the liberated ; areas of Afghanistan.
         The SCA Peshawar office was established in the autumn of 1982,- Work started in the health sector. Afghan medical personnel, were supported with medical equipment, medicines, transport costs and salaries. Medicines are delivered to /health .workers in all the 29 provinces, including 85 health centers, while efforts are made to up-grade the quality of the health work and to encourage the development of larger, better-managed health systems, organized more towarda preventive care.                             . ■
         Emergency relief was started on a small scale in 1984. A cash-for-food program was developed but funds have, over the last two years, been transferred to an agricultural • p^ogam. Training courses for ‘ plant protectionists, horticulturists and para-veterinarians are conducted. An emergency program still
                                              105
        OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 WMJIHIltl_____________________________ VOL.  5 NO.  1
        exists but with a slightly changed direction.
             The Agricultural survey of Afghanistan is a sub-branch of SCA. started in fall 1986, its purpose was to conduct a nation-wide survey of the agricultural conditions in Afghanistan. The first report was distributed in may 1988. ASA also undertook a survey of suspected insect infestation in northern Afghanistan during the summer of 1989.
             Work in the education sector started in 1984, when the sub-branch, Afghanistan Education Committee, was established. A primary school curriculum was produced and support to schools in Afghanistan extended. A teacher training program is’ being carried out, and a pilot program, is aimed at employing education coordinators for certain larger projects.
      ' Funding Swedish Government, UN agencies (mainly UNDP, UNHCR* and UNICEF contribute about 20%), British and Canadian Governments*
      ■ i
 1 i'*
 w
106
OCTOBER-DECEMBER » 1991
VOL. 5 NO
ZD
P
P
P
m
a
a
a
ts
a
a
a
a
p
EDITOR'S NOTE: The following article has been written by Sameen Khan and distributed in a pamphlet by Tahreek Nazriyat Pakistan. (Pakistan Movement Ideology). It has been written in 1988 and later published as a Pamphlet • It was then commended by General Asiam Beg; former Chief of Army Stafff Brig• Riaz Yunus» PSO to Chairman JCSC9 Air Commodore A. Rahmant Admiral Yastur H. Malik9 Dr. A.Q. Khan; Lt. Gen. Imran Ullah Khant Lt. Gen. Alam Jan Mahsudt Lt. General Asif Nawazt Lt. Gen. Syed Zakir Ali Zaidit Lt. Gen. R.D. Bhatti; Lt. Gen. Abdul Waheed9 Maj. Gen. Ghulam Mohammad Malik? Air Vice Marshal Bahar-ul-Haque9 Brig. Syed Mohammad Amjadt Maj. Gen. AKM Khalil -ur~-Rehmanf Maj. Gen. Ayaz Ahmadt Maj. Geh. Jamshed Malik and General (Retd) Mohammad Musa.
      Sameen Khan» a lawyer9 has served as adviser to the government of Pakistan at various stages.
           A STRATEGIC DOCTRINE FOR PAKISTAN AND A CASE STUDY OF THE AFGHAN JEHAD
           The writer says he has received a large number of comments on his article on "A Strategic Doctrine for Pakistan" from eminent persons in the Armed Forces of Pakistan. The writer is also surprised at the great public response to his article-.although the subject is of a specialized type. He has written this second part in the light of the comments and his experiences of Zarb-e-Momin, the biggest exercise of the Pakistan Armed Forces and even in the Muslim World. He has also made an analysis of the long period of the Muslim Rule of India and a case study of the Afghan Jehad. Names of eminent persons of the Pakistan Armed forces who commended the article have appeared at the end of this article,
                                                                                                Clausewitz,
defined...
the great German expert on warfare, strategy and tactics- has
            Strategy is the theory of the use of combats for the object of the war.
            And again he elaborates.
            "Strategy is the employment of the battle to gain the end of the war; it
                                                                                                                                                   r
                                                 107
          OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGIIAN JIHAfl                            VOL. 5 NO. 1
         ; _: _______;__________. J 
         must therefore give an aim to the whole military action, which must be in accordance with the plan of the war;, in other words, strategy forms the plan of the war, and to this end it links together the series of acts which are to lead to the final decisions; that is to say, it makes the plans for the separate campaigns and regulates the combats to be fought in each."
              But) the strategic doctrine that I have enunciated in the first pai^t of my article is much wider than the doctrihes of Clausewitz and Liddlehart. So when I write about strategy I really mean Grand Strategy.
                                                                 >
              During the last 200 years, the Muslims have not- except for Kemal Ata Turk's campaign against the Greeks in Anatolia- won a great battle. There have been consistent debacles of the Muslim armies so much so that prior to the creation of Pakistan, except for Turkey, the entire Muslim World was under defacto foreign domination.
              Now I am concerned with enunciating an entirely new strategic doctrine with a view to re-shape the entire concept of warfare, strategy and tactics and^ even . broadening the horizons and the.aims and objectives, the vision and the spectrum of the Muslims of the World.                                            ,
              It is really a monumental task to lay down a coherent cone,ept of strategy, nay Grand Strategy* which shall in name be for Pakistan but shall actually be for the entire Muslim World. The task is more difficult in the present situation and conditions of the Muslim World which has an unenviable legacy of decadence and foreign domination during the, last two hundred years. It; has not won any wars but lost all its battles. Its culture is not what it was prior to its decadence but has the distinct imprint of its foreign masters. Its,history,has been written by those who till now ruled them. Its religious leaders, though
         they played a role in preserving Islam in adverse circumstances, cannot think'
                     \ ' ' • ' ‘ -and act as leaders of a revived and revolutionary religion and have now
         developed vested, interests which places this religious hierarchy as veritably
         opposed to the interests of the common people whose interests Islam projects and
         protects. Its political leaders- the worst products of bourgois democracy- are
         mediocrities who suffer from a deep inferiority complex from the West about its
         political institutions, its civilization and culture.
          >• So in such a situation it is difficult if not impossible to conceive of enunciating a doctrine of Grand Strategy based upon the moral and intellectual superiority of Islam or to visualize the renaissance of Islam or the political ascendancy of the Muslims or the military super/iority of a Muslim Army imbued with the spirit of Jehad.
              So with such a legacy of the moral decadence of the Muslims, of a chain of military defeats, of the oblivion of its political institutions, the absence of vision of its power elite- the only means and vehicle for the moral and political ascendancy of the Muslims and Islam can be a doctrine of Grand Strategy based upon Islam as an ideology and jehad as the means for the implementation of that ideology.
              An ideology, a doctrine and a revolution has to be and remain constantly on
                                              • 108
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANJ[HAfl                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
     the offensive both in the ideological and the geographical sense. The moment it is enunciated, it has to assume the offensive, for it. is only on being on the offensive that it can destroy the existing systems of the state and finally assume the role, of a conquering ideology with no geographical limits and constraints. Once it has subverted the state machinery it is necessary that.the ideology pursues the offensive and subdues ideologically and geographically the neighbouring states.                    • Y
          So once Islam completely isubdued ideologically and geographically Arabia Felix- it assumed the offensive and conquered Egypt, ' Iran, Palestine, Syria, Iraq and soon leached the Atlantic and even Samarkand, Bukhara and Sind. So Islam never looked, back- never confined itself to Arabia Felix but went on and on till ultimately the ideological decline led to the' political decline.\
          So bur objective now should be an Islamic Revolution and an Islamic Revolution can only be ushered in through the adoption, of jehad as .its primary instrument.
                                                \       I
          Now at this momentous cornerstone of our history, the Afghans through the successful application of the Islamic doctrine of. jehad have because of the defeat of a super power- the USSR- shown the beacon light to the entire Muslim World and aYe the veritable torch bearers and trail-blazers for the revival of jehad not merely as a static doctrine to be . di,scussed by, the ulama and the intellectuals but .as a practical phenomenon which can be the sum-total of Our coricept of Grand Stragety for the Muslims of the world.
          It is therefore necessary and imperative for us to make a case study of ,this, great phenomenon because, by the following of that great example, the Muslims of the world may alter the entire future course of the onward march of Islam and; the Muslims of the World. ( EDITOR'S NOTE: A portipn of the article then deals1 with what the writer calls the Zarb-e-Momin, a term used for Pakistani Army military excercizes and then studies the case of Afghan jehad).
                         THE ISLAMIC REVOLUTION AND JEHAD IN AFGHANISTAN
          The history of the Afghans and Afghanistan is part of the glorious history and glory of Islam. The history of the great Afghan people of the last 1,000 years is' replete with glorious conquests and momentous victories in the " battlefield. It is a history of the conquest and rule of India by various Afghan dynasties- the Lodies and Suris- which is a period of glory both for Islam and the Afghans. It is a history of the conquest and the creation of princely istates in India- Bhopal, Rampur, Sherpur, Tonk and Junagarh and their/benign rule ,of their people.
          It is a history of the victories in the battlefield-glorious deeds of personal and collective valour of the Afghans which culminated in the Third Battle of Panipat in 1761.
          Afghanistan itself bas a unique history as it is the only country in the
     world which has never been conquered by an invader as throughout its history the invader has always been vanquished by the Afghans.
        OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfflllflHJIHAD                          VOL. 5 NO. 1
                                      CRISIS OF LEADERSHIP
             "Due to large scale immigration from Afghanistan and the Frontier Province to the tn'd'o-Pakistan sub-continent of families of those Afghans who created empires, princely states and gave political leaders to the Pakistan Movement- these areas have been denuded of families who could give leadership and due to this vacuum the leadership in Afghanistan went to Zaher Shah's family and in the Frontier Province to Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan. This new leadership shortened theV'horizons' of the Afghans from Delhi to the Attock Bridge".
             But the greatest recent landmark of Afghanistan's history is the successful jehad which the Afghans have carried on far the last 10 years and which has resulted in the defeat and exit of a super power- the USSR. They have buried once and for all the myth that the USSR does not withdraw from a country which it has conquered. For future generations in Afghanistan and for the down-trodden people throughout the world they have laid down in golden letters the message that if a people are united and if they are motivated by the precepts of jehad, they can vanquish a super power.
             However, the super powers collectively hatched a conspiracy against the Afghan mujaheddin which began with the assassination of President Zia ul Haq Shaheed (martyr). The objective of this conspiracy was not-merely to remove the prime mover .of the Afghan jehad in Pakistan but to change the entire'political leadership and structure of Pakistan.
             Unfortunately the results of the elections in Pakistan on the 16th of November (1989) meant that the international' conspiracy has succeeded in Pakistan. And so inspite of the assurances given by the new leadership of Pakistan to the Establishment it was futile to expect that the Afghan policy of the new Government of Pakistan shall be the same as that of President. Zia ul Haq. Moreover, no person in Pakistan could fill the vacuum then created by the demise of President Zia ul Haq. No other person could pursue the Afghan jehad with such dexterity. No other person in the present administration has the intellectual acumen, the political foresight and international stature \ that President Zia ul Haq had.
             Perhaps we are now in the same situation as the Muslims were at the time of the death of Salahuddin Ayubi but with the great difference that he had achieved his objective of defeating the Crusaders and had captured Jerusalem.
             But a conspiracy and specially an international conspiracy is not a static phenomenon but a continual process.
             So the conspiracy in its continual process is now 1 in its final stage of strangling the Afghan jehad.
                                       '
             The first phase of the conspiracy was to remove President Zia ul Haq and place in his place a secular orientated political leadership with no interest in pursuing the Afghan policy of President Zia ul Haq. This new (PPP) leadership is conforming to the Geneva Accords literally viz-a-viz Afghanistan and the Simla-
                                               110
     OCTOBER-DECFMBER. 1991             fllullJmJtH/IO                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
     Agreement vis-a-viz India. This new political leadership although it has given assurance to the Establishment for the continuation of the Afghan policy of President Zia yet, after consolidating its position, it is gradually reneging from its commitments with regard to Afghanistan. This new political leadership is achieving this objective primarily through simulating a vast international publicity campaign in the media and secondarily through its contacts with world statesmen, through bilateral negotiations and in international forums.
           The projection that it is getting in the international media has made it possible for the new leadership to check-mate the military hierarchy of Pakistan and weaning them away from following the Afghan policy Cf President Zia. So this was the first phase of this international conspiracy.
           The second phase shall be to isolate the Afghan mujaheddin from their international friends and then to dictate terms to them suitable to both the super powers- which means briefly that the so called 'fundamentalists* do not come in power in Afghanistan and the Islamic Revolution is not ushered in Afghanistan.
           So the Afghan mujaheddin are faced with this international conspiracy against their jehad and the Islamic Revolution and they have to face this situation without the active support and guidance of President Zia ul Haq. The task for them is difficult and stupendous but not impossible for the Afghan
     mujaheddin- who have vanquished a super power.
                                        / '' ■ ■" ' - ■
           But if the Afghans have to succeed in their jehad and in ushering in an Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan they Should first analyse their own weaknesses and then plan everything in detail as they now have to rely on their own resources:                                                ,
           However, the mujaheddin have four weaknesses:
           1.   They do not have a single charismatic leader;
           2.   They are not united to the extent they should be in such a struggle and they do not have a unified military command;
           3.   They do not have a Grand Strategic Plan to drive out and defeat the
                Communists;                                ,
           4.   They do not have weapons for an offensive that is artillery, tanks and air support.
           So the Afghan leaders and the mujaheddin should be completely united either under one leader or under a presidium. The present Afghan interim government, though it has tried to fill the vacuum, it has to include all the Afghan mujaheddin in it and it should establish itself inside Afghanistan.
           A unified military command should be constituted which should;
           a. . Plan a Grand Strategic Plan for the complete liberation of
                Afghanistan;
           b.   Plan all tactics in detail about the War;
           c.   Start the formation of a "standing army" which can hold the land
                                             111
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 Affill/INJfHAfl                VOL. 5 NO. 1
                 liberated- guerrilla warfare is not enough- as guerillas do not hold the land- for'that a standing army is absolutely necessary?
            d.   The basic arms for a final assault that is heavy artillery, tanks and air power and missiles should be first acquired before any final attack.
            So basically it is necessary for the mujaheddin to concentrate on the following points;
       UNITY: Throughout the history of the Afghans-. disunity has been the great bane of the Afghans. So unity is the sheet-anchor for the Afghan mujaheddin. It is a fact of history that whenever the Afghans have been united they have invariably reached Delhi and conquered India. Even now it is because of their unity that they have been able to vanquish a super power- the USSR. So the need of the hour is the absolute unity of the Afghans4, their Seven Party Alliance and their Interim Government and also of the Commanders in the battle-field.
            If they succeed in preserving their unity they shall definitely succeed in their political and religious objective of creating an Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan.
       JEHAD; It is absolutely certain that they have succeeded in vanquishing a super power- the USSR- because they waged a jehad in afccordance with the principles of Islam as laid down and practised by the Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, and the Orthodox Caliphs.
            Muslims throughout the world have now .realized the dynamism of the teachings of Islam and its primary instrument- jehad, it is therefore necessary for them to use all their means to propagate the institution of jehad throughout the wbrld- so that other Muslims can also utilize it in their struggle and also help them.
            This can be done by two methods. Firstly they should invite many non-Afghan Muslims to come and take ’ part in the jehad in Afghanistan. Participation in the jehad in Afghanistan shall give them training for warfare, inculcate the spirit of jehad and imbibe the Islamic spirit of equality and fraternity.
            Secondly, they should propagate through modern means the theory and practice of jehad.
            The canvas of their publicity should be the entire Muslim world but their main thrust should be Pakistan and its people who are their closest allies. To them they are like the Ansars of Medina who have till now played a great arid similar role- but who under the new political leadership in Pakistan may be persuaded not to continue'to play that role.
                      FOREIGN POLICY - EXPANSION OF THEIR HORIZONS
            Till the 17th of August, 1988, the ioreign policy of the Afghan mujaheddin' was not merely formulated but also executed and implemented by the late President Zia ul Haq.                                                       J
                                                  112
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AIGIIANJfHAfl                            VOL. 5 NO. 1
          Now both the formulation and execution of their foreign policy shall have to be done by the Afghan mujaheddin themselves.
          In formulating their foreign policy, they shall have to bear in mind the martyrdom of President Zia and the ushering of the new government which means that the new government is not so close or friendly to the cause of Afghan jehad.
          So it will be necessary for them to widrin their horizons, search for new pastures and look for new friends.
          They should make an immediate and determined effort to make friends with all the Muslim countries without any distinction as they shall be needing them and all their other friends on their side.
          Secondly, they should make an effort under a plan to make friends with all those countries who offer them their hand of friendship whether they are in Europe, Asia, Africa or the Americas. For them Sri Lanka and Costa Rica are equally important- as they shall be needing their support in the UN and other international forums. '
          Thirdly, they should make a planned effort to cultivate all the developed countries whether in Europe, Americas and Asia. They shal-1 be needing their economic assistance both during their struggle and after the struggle for their economic development and reconstruction.
          To achieve this objective of widening their horizons it will be necessary for them:
          1.   To hold arid attend international conferences, meetings and seminars whether official or un-official to project their point of view;
          2.   To send delegations arid "ambassadors" to various countries in accordance with a plan to project and present their point of view;
          3.   To present and project their point of view through the international media- specially through the modern electronic media.
                                       SOUND MILITARY PLANNING
     STRATEGY AND TACTIC: The strategy and tactics of. a movement- not merely a liberation movement but also the movement for an Islamic Revolution- are necessarily different from that of an ordinary military war. Moreover the Afghan mujaheddin during the last 10 years have evolved their own strategy and' tactics-and those cannot be ignored at all.
     STRATEGY: Without going into the details and the nuances of their strategy* the sum-total of their strategy should be the ^defeat of the Kabul Regime and the taking of Kabul in the shortest possible time. *
          With the death of President Zia ul Haq and the certainty of an understanding between the USSR and the USA on global issues- including nuclear and conventional disarmament and Afghanistan- time is running out against the Afghan
            • ' • ■ \ . \ '
                                            113 '
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGWINlU                       VOL. 5 NO. 1
      mujaheddin. Since whoever rules Kabul- rules Afghanistan, their strategy should be , to avoid the other towns and capture Kabul as soon as possible. A similar strategy was adopted by Indira Gandhi by capturing Dacca in East Pakistan- and leaving aside and side-tracking other towns. It was also the strategy adopted by the British in the second Afghan War in 1878-80 and by Nadir Shah in 1930 (1929) . ''           J . '< ■
           This should be also their strategy now.                -       1  v
      TACTICS: Mobility has been the basic characteristic of guerrilla warfare in
      Afghanistan. It is also a "national characteristics" of the Afghans- ’jehad in early Islam- specially the speed with which Hazrat Khalid bin WaLid captured Damascus. Napoleon, that great general, achieved all his superiority, in mobility both.of his infantry and artillery. Napoleon to have this superiority ' in mobility over the infantry of his opponents changed the style of his infantry's march and increased the steps and paces in a minute from sixty to one hundred and twenty...         (
           They have to plan the entire strategy of their warfare on "mobility" which is the basic characteristic of the Afghan people in their guerrilla warfare...
      SURPRIZE: Surprize is one of the most important elements of war, but the element of surprize should be strategic and not merely tactical- which is an essential characteristic of Napoleanic warfare. Hitler in his ’"Blitzkrieg" although he combined both the strategic and the , tactical in his invasions of Poland and France yet in his invasion of Russia- Operation Barbarrosa- the surprize was only tactical and not strategic.
      STANDING ARMY:    Guerrilla warfare  can  not  be  a substitute for conventional
      warfare- as a guerrilla by his very training cannot be a substitute for a soldier , trained for conventional , warfare. A guerrilla army is not expected to hold the land it conquers. This can be done only by a conventional army which can launch an attack on a fortified toWn- like Kabul, it is only a conventional army which with the help of artillery and tanks and the support of air power can destroy the fortifications of a town and capture it.
                             > 1 ••
           It is thus now necessary, f or, the Afghan' mujaheddin to have a drained
      conventional army to launch a final attack on the towps now occupied by the enemy. This conventional army can also be used for the maintenance of law and ordef in the areas that are captured by the mujaheddin. The creation of such an army shall also be a unifying factor of all the mujaheddin and muhajerin.
      MILITARY INTELLIGENCE: Intelligence about the relative strength of the enemy1 is a sine qua non of success in any war. It is therefore absolutely necessary for the Afghan mujaheddin to organize a "Department of Military Intelligence"- which can collect and analyse all possible information about the capabilities of the enemy before a final attack is undertaken.
 •         Our Holy Prophet, peace be upon him/ had known the imp&Jftance of military
      intelligence, so before the Battle of Badr, he obtained military intelligence from water-carriers and even sent'his own men to obtain intelligence about, the
                                                      ' 114
      OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991           AfGHANJIHAfl                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
      movement, the number of army personnel, the number of camels slaughtered by them daily and the names of the commanders of Qureish Army.
      COMMANDOS: In a war and battle it is. some time necessary to perform a Spectacular and unexpected act. Such an act can be performed only by a highly trained and a highly motivated group of persons- now commonly called commandos.
           Since in the last stages of a war, and specially in the taking of Kabul, they may be faced with some unforeseen circumstances or situations, they shall be needing the services of highly trained commandos who are also highly motivated.. .
           Finally as regards strategy and tactics to quote Napoleon, "Make war offensively, he said 'like Alexander, Hannibal, Caesar, Gustavus Adolphus, Turene, Eugene and Frederick- model yourself on them, it is the sole means to become a great captain and fathom the secrets of the art'".                      '
                                           FINAL ANALYSIS
            i               -            .....  ■                          .1
           In September 1987 when I had met the late President Zia ul Haq after my first visit inside, Afghanistan, I had presented a brief about the expected results of the success Of the Afghan jehad which were:
           "The second alternative is to help the Afghan mujaheddin whole-heartedly by giving them "offensive weapons" sp that the Islamic Revolution succeeds in Afghanistan. This will have the following effects:
           a.   It will mean the first defeat for the USSR and communism which will be of historic significance both in an ideological sense and in accordance with global politics;
           b.   It will mean- from Pakistan's point of view- that the USSR's frontier is shifted back to the Amu Darya from the Durand Line;
           c.   It may result in the resurgence of Islam in the Soviet Muslim Republics- and the beginning of a long struggle within these republics for independence;
        . d. . It will mean the break-up of the Soviet Empire- this will mean the eclipse and demise of the USSR as a super-power and of communism".
                     .       .        .      '                                I *
           Now strangely enough much more has come true than 1 expected. So I would like to re-state my point of view in greater detail viz-a-viz the results of the success of the Afghan jehad:                    1
      1. The first result of the Afghan jehad has been the exit of the USSR from 4 Afghanistan. This is unexpected for those who held the theory that Russia has never withdrawn from an area which it has conquered. The Afghan mujaheddin have proved their history right that of Russia 1 wrong.
      2. The second result of the victory of the Afghans and the exi-t of the Russians from Afghanistan has been the spectacular collapse of communism both as an ideology and as a .system of government in East Europe- which commenced from > Poland only after the exit- of the Russian troops from Afghanistan. It may be noted and emphasized that nothing happened in. East Europe prior to the^ exit of
                                                      115
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfTlIIANJIHAO                           VOL. 5 NO. 1
     the Russian troops.from Afghanistan;
     3. The third result of the victory of the Afghans is the commotion and movement against communism inside Soviet Union itself. This movement has started in -the Baltic States which were annexed by the USSR in 1939 and violently in Azerbaijan- half of which is in Iran. But it is also very strong in Georgia, Armenia and Moldavia and also gradually growing in the Ukraine which is the USSR's biggest state in terms of population after Russia proper ahcf is a member of the UN and' in Kazakhistan, the largest republic of the USSR after Russia itself in area and the first Muslim state annexed by the Czars of Russia several centuries ago.
     4. There is now a greater certainty that.as a result of the Afghan jehad and now of the jehad in.Azerbaijan a full-fledged'movement for the liberation of the Muslim union republics of Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tadjikistan, Kirgizia, Kazakhistan and the autonomous Muslim republics of Tatar Bashkir, Chechen-Ingush, Kabardin-Balkar, Dagestan and autonomous oblast of Karachay- Cherkess shall soon commence. This is a historical necessity and the Muslim countries of the OIC should make the necessary efforts that the transition to a liberated Muslim state should be with a minimum of bloodshed and should preferably be peaceful.
     5. If the Muslim Republics of the USSR are liberated from the USSR then they shall act as a buffer between Russia and the northern tier states of Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan and Turkey. Then Pakistan's frontier problem shall be solved for a long time to come. It may be mentioned that it was after the destruction and annexation of Samarkand and Bokhara by the Mongols in the Middle Ages and again by the Czars in the nineteenth century that the frontier problem arose for . us in the Indo-Pakistan sub-continent and also a problem of proximity to an antagonistic poWer arose for Turkey, Iran and Afghanistan.
          The independence of the Muslim Republics shall reduce the USSR to a manageable size and it will no longer be a threat to the Muslim states of Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan and Turkey.
     6. In the Indo-Pakistan sub-continent the first important effect of the Afghan jehad has been the renaissance of the jehad movement in Indian occupied Kashmir, It will also result in the resurgence of Islam in India and in Bangladesh.
     7. The success of the Afghan jehad and the ushering of an Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan shall change the balance of power in the Indo-Pakistan sub-continent in favor of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Now to the 500,000 member Pakistan Army, which is highly trained, shall be added the 500,000 battle-trained Afghan mujaheddin. Together the million member Afghan-Pakistan Army shall be equal in size of the army of India. The balance of power shall be the same as it was in January 1761 on the eve of Third Battle of Panipat.
          And together with Pakistan's nuclear option it will be a formidable force to reckon with both by India and even the erstwhile super power- the USSR;
     8. From a strategic point of view, it will give Pakistan "strategic depth" in case of a war with India and "strategic depth" to Afghanistan in case of a‘ war
                                            116
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DfGIIIIIIJ[HAfl                VOL. 5 NO. 1
   with the -USSR (as it actually did give "strategic depth" to the Afghan mujaheddin during the present conflict with the USSR).
         Moreover, it will mean that it will be possible for Pakistan to remove its entire alrmy from the Western frontier to the Eastern Frontier bordering India;
   9.  Finally the USSR- if it survives as USSR- shall not think of attacking Afghanistan and Pakistan for the next fifty years.
                              INTERIM ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN
         Finally a word of advice to the interim Islamic Government of Afghanistan from some one who has taken part in the Afghan jehad, who is deeply committed to it, who has close , personal relations with most, of the leaders and commanders of the Afghan mujaheddin and who has helped them in their hour of peed*
         The Afghan Interim Governments both the first one formed unanimously by the Seven Party Alliance in early 1988 with the likable Engineer Ahmed Shah as its Head and the present one elected by a Shoora in early 1989... have not been able to achieve both inside Afghanistan or on the international front which they were expected to achieve. The AIG has been a non-starter. It has failed to take off. My own analysis for this is as follows:
   1.  The Afghan mujaheddin leaders, though decide everything on their own, they had become so dependent on the guidance of,, President Zia ul Haq and the advice of the ISI that now that President Zia is dead there is no one to guide them and the new ISI is nbt trusted by them as it has been unable to establish an equation with the Afghans. The Afghans are a very proud people- they do not like any advice to be thrust on them- yet they can take and accept advice from persons whom they can trust implicitly. Such persons whom they could trust were Generals Zia and Akhtar Abdur Rahman and are General Hamid Gul.
         After the death of President Zia the Head of the AIG Engineer Ahmed Shah had requested the present writer to advise him and the AIG and the present writer tried his level best to advise them and act as a bridge between them and the Pakistan Government till the 2nd of December 1988. However, the present, writer was not President Zia. He had no official position in Pakistan and in. Pakistan official position and not knowledge and ability is the criterion.
         So with the establishment of the new AIG, the exit of Engineer Ahmed Shah and General Hamid Gul the situation changed completely.
   2.  The AIG has failed to make a mark as it has not moved inside Afghanistan which it should have done long ago. Obviously they shall have to live a Spartan life but then their writ shall run inside Afghanistan. A government in exile has no significance for both the international community and for the Afghans and specially the Commanders and mujaheddin inside Afghanistan.
   3.  They have failed to organise the Ministry Of Defense and the General Headquarters of the mujaheddin and their Army. They should establish their GHQ inside Afghanistan which is not really so difficult to establish if a good
                                             117
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 hIGIIAMJiHAO                           VOL.  5 NO. 1
    comraunnication system can be established. Moreover, the liberation war can only be guided and actually fought by a single unified command with a common strategy^ and agreed tactics.
                                              CONCLUSION
         The untimely death of President Zia ul Haque has deprived the Afghan jehad of its prime mover and the Afghan mujaheddin of a sincere guide. The Afghans who have produced great leaders and conquerors like Sher Shah Suri and Ahmed Shah Abdali are fully capable of leading themselves towards their cherished destiny of an Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan.
         There is a silver lining which I want to emphasize at the end- the Afghan mujaheddin and their leaders and commanders have implicit faith and trust in' the Pakistan Army and a profound respect for its Chief of Staff- General Mirza Aslam Beg so if the entire direction and guidance of the Afghan jehad ^.s taken over by the Pakistan Army and General Mirza Aslam Beg decides to play the same role as that played by the late General Zia- then the success of the Afghan jehad and the Islamic Revolution in Afghanistan shall insha Allah be certain.
         I am certain that if we arid the Afghans go through the crucible of fire destiny shall beckon us towards our own goal and that of the Muslim World- the great Islamic Revolution.
\
/
      OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AffiHJINJEHAD                VOL.  5 NO. 1
   CHANGES IN AFGHAN SOCIETY DUE TO WAR
               EDITOR*S NOTE: The following article was written by Sabahuddin Kushkaki, to a seminar of the Institute of Strategic Studies of Pakistan• It has been printed in a book published by the Institute.
            The foremost thing to bear in mind about the Afghan refugees, both in Pakistan and Iran, is that they have not merely sought asylum for economic reasons, but are primarily motivated to migrate for deep religious and political beliefs. These beliefs dictate that should they find themselves under oppression, they must bring themselves out of that situation by assuming a new status, including a resort to migration,, so that they could perform their, religious duties in accordance with Islamic principles.
            That is why the Afghans did not respond massively to a United Nations call for a return to the so-called "zones of tranquillity". For they were convinced that cpnditions were not suitable for them to return to Afghanistan, despite the economic rewards promised to them by the world body. For them, an atheist government is still in power in Kabul and to return to their homes under the same conditions which had forced them to leave was not right. l"he Afghans refuse to return despite the very difficult conditions under which they are living in .Pakistan and Iran and despite the many promises which the Kabul regime- and. indeed the United Nations- is extending to them, including a promise to respect their religious beliefs; because they consider such promises as fake and strategically motivated.
            The Afghan refugees will also flatly refuse to return, even if the Najib government is replaced by another one which does not more or less come up to their expectations.
            It is quite true that, due to the inability of the Afghan mujaheddin leadership, there is no V hope in the context of worldly realities for the emergence of a government which will conform to their minimum expectations, but + that . does not induce them to compromise on certain issues for which, they have fought, Foremost among these issues, of course, is their flat refusal to deal with a government which, in one way or another         includes communist or other -f,
                                                119
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHANJlllflll                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
       atheist elements.
            The Afghan refugees- who, as already, mentioned, are not simply refugees but people with a great deal of political ambitions and consciousness- consider the elimination of communist and other atheist elements from the government ranks- as the foremost condition for a new government conforming to their definition. However, the years of jehad and changes that have occurred in social, economic and political life of the country, call for other conditions* which one must bear in mind in framing new structures for the institutions of Afghanistan. I will now spell out *the most important of the elements:
                                  1.   A NEW LEADERSHIP:
             The mujaheddin and most of their leaders who have fought the war belong neither to the old bureaucracy nor to the traditional aristocracy of Afghanistan. Both of these have been either eliminated or failed to play vital and effective role in the Afghan resistance. The people who have led the war are either the religious leaders of the country or belong to a completely new group, who did not enjoy any social, political or economic status in the past. In the past, the community of Afghan religious -leaders did not play any role in the political life of Afghanistan. In fact, Afghan history records no occasion when a religious leader had assumed a position of leadership in the country. But, as this community took up the main responsibility for defending1 the country in the • Afghan-Soviet war and against the Communist regime, it is now the vanguard of politics on the Afghan scene. A significant number of them have become prominent commanders as well, inside the country.
             The other vanguard elements in the arena of Afghan politics*- the commanders are either members of Islamic movements or without such affiliations. This group, too, is now enjoying a great deal of social and political influence. "After 10 years of war, it is not rare to see mujaheddin field commanders, mainly the petty ones, behaving like former notables and using the political fragmentation in order to express and enhance the traditional qawm (tribe)
        segmentation. They tend to play new political game along the old rules", says French expert on Afghanistan Olivier Roy.
             It seems as though that, despite the significant role played by the Islamic reformists or members' of the Ikhwan-ul-Muslimin in the Afghan jehad, the role of the traditional community of religious leaders in the war and, indeed, their impact on the future Afghan institutions will be much greater than those of the progressive Islamic elements.
             The Afghan religious leaders, in addition to being strict in their approach towards modern institutions and certain social, economic and political practices already accepted by progressive Islamic, movements (e.g. elections, womens? education, sophisticated mass media), still cling to traditions and are essentially bound to follow the rules of a tribal and ethnical society which Afghanistan has. still remained, despite the upheaval the war has brought about. In the early years of war, the progressive Islamic parties were rather shy and reluctant to accept these traditional religious leaders into their fold, and the latter, too, did not approve of the "modernistic'! attitude of what is called the
                                                 f          '
                                                120
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHAN JIHAD
VOL. 5 NO. 1
                   1 . maktabis. But, for the time being, an uneasy coalition prevails between the two.
      The extent of the impact that the progressive Islamic parties will have on the future society of Afghanistan will depend very much on who will assume the leadership after the expected downfall of the present Communist regime. But one thing is certain: the active cooperation and the approval of the. traditional community of religious leaders will be an essential pass word for the success of any future leadership.
                      2.  RELIGION AND AFGHAN SOCIETY:
      The Afghan society has become more religious minded in a special sense.
       The Afghans have waged their war against the establishment of a Communist regime in Kabul and invasion of their country by the Soviet Union mainly on the basis of faith in Islam. It was so during this war and it was sg during the other wars which the Afghans fought against the British in the 19th and 20th centuries. It was so even during the Afghan invasions of the Indian sub-continent by Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi, by many emperors of the Ghori family and during the eighteenth century by Ahmad Shah Abdali. The religious consciousness had always motivated the Afghans to defend themselves against foreign aggression, to resort to conquering other lands or even to stage an .uprising against indigenous Afghan governments which, to'the mind of our people* had transgressed from Islamic standards.
      What is now expected from a government of the future in Afghanistan is that it should clearly define its position on a host of issues, which have been taken for granted by other societies, including Islamic governments in other parts of the world. These include issues that are basically the consequences of modern technological advancement or issues on which the Islamic community have disagreed, such as the role of women in nation-building efforts. What has been done in these fields, even before the communists came to power in 1978, such as co-education in institutions of higher education and women and men working in same institutions and offices, will be unacceptable to the newly emerged Afghan society. Any role for the Afghan female has to be dealt within the context of a sexually segregated society.
                          3.   FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY:
      The future Afghan society will be more regional, with each ethnic group demanding a due share in power as well as social and economic rights.
      In a sense,- our jehad has been a unifying force and hence, a blessing in disguise for us as the Afghan nation has been jointly fighting a common enemy. Because ,of this and also due to a further fermentation of Islamic ideals, the various nationalities consider themselves as part of one Afghan nation. Before the war, for example, the Uzbeks or the Hazaras would not say that they are /'Afghans" .
      However, on the other hand, the very togetherness and sense of unity among the various Afghan tribes and nationalities has brought about an urge for equal
                                        121
*
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, T991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
       treatment and rights for all. Although a number of the "elite" of some of these nationalities would accuse the former governments of Afghanistan of outright discrimination towards the dominance of Pashtun tribe over the other communities# the fact remains that .just before the Communist take-over of 1978# a very subtle change had occurred in the country in broadening the ranks Of the leadership. This was reflected in the traditional leadership's , readiness to embrace the elite of various nationalities of Afghanistan in the leadership ranks. Their membership in two freely elected parliaments in 1965 and 1969#. their membership in high governmental posts# their opportunities to acquire higher education and widespread economic investments predominantly in non^Pashtun areas# were changes that reflected the beginning of the end of the power monopoly of a particular ethnic group (although it would be correct to say the power monopoly^of a particular family in that ethnic group, for, in reality, many other clans in that very ethnic group were also deprived of many privileges).          ,
            But, the communist takeover and the subsequent Russian invasion of Afghanistan brought this sqbtle change- a change not really grasped and reported by many anthropologists- to an abrupt halt.
            The communist treatment of and approach towards the issue of Afghan ethnic groups and nationalities was typical of the one already undertaken by the Soviet state towards its own nationalities- a policy, the flaws and malicious intents of which were obvious to many even during the heyday of communism, but more so how in the aftermath of giasnost and perestroika. So one does not have to discuss the mischievous aims and disastrous consequences of that very policy adopted by the Soviet occupiers and their puppets.
            Thus# in dealing with the question of Afghan ethnic groups# we have to start firom. the scratch. All the ethnic groups want a share in the cake and there will be very little resistance to prevent this. However# it will be indeed senseless and futile if we succumb to this temptation. For, rebuilding of Afghanistan would only be possible in the framework of Islamic fraternity and equality.
            Unfortunately, a genesis of the membership of almost all mujaheddin organizations re.veals a bitter reality reminiscent of the past: despite their clamour about the past injustices towards many ethnic groups by the ruling power# these very groups themselves have failed to deal with the issue fairly. If this trend continues, it will have dire consequences for Afghanistan.
            Any effort for bringing about a new political condition# therefore, would have to be made by a coalition of the credible elements of the Afghan society. And if these coalition leaders# who represent a. cross-section of our people# address these issues on the basis of a common denominator# then there is no reason why these problems would not be solved. Central to the common denominator would be the sense of belongingness to one Afghanistan and shared devotion to the ideals of Islamic fraternity and equality. TO this could be linked the historical reality that the common man of any ethnic group in Afghanistan has been able to live with his fellow countryman in peace and harmony# despite discriminatory policies pursued by the .leadership and the elite of the various
                                               122
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
   groups.
                               4.   RECONSTRUCTION:
                                                                             \   i
        The future Afghan society will be highly cooperative towards, the reconstruction of the country.
        Despite what has been said about a relapse towards regionalism in Afghanistan during the years of war, if a proper policy of distribution of power is worked out, the enormous and gigantic tasks of reconstruction and rehabilitation facing ^Afghanistan would be conducted with ease and smoothness and this will surprise many. It is true that# at present, the emergence of local commanders and, in many cases the establishment of direct relationship between them and the donors, have fragmented Afghanistan. However, as soon as a central government supported by all the credible elements of the Afghans is established, the Afghans will mobilize their will and energy to rebuild the country. The'long
   i                                  •
   years of suffering in refugee camps, with meagre sources for survival and the need for food and Shelter, will bring about an enthusiastic response to calls for mass participation in reconstruction efforts. In essence, there are "pull" and "push" factors at present influencing such decisions in each case. Among the "pull" factors- those factors that will attract the refugees to return- one could include the consideration that since the refugees left their homes involuntarily, their yearning to go back is clearly important. The vast majority of the refugees have paid close attention to the development inside Afghanistan
   and have contributed to the war effort directly or indirectly. They clearly feel a commitment and pride to return under conditions when war has been won by the Afghan people and an honorable peace settlement has been made. The commitment to Islamic values and attachment to the homeland will play important roles in
   the decisions <?f the majority of the refugees to return. Clearly employment opportunities under reconstruction and incentive payment, as well as refugee compensation payment, are also important considerations for the refugees.
        Of course the majority of the refugees who have assumed permanent residence ,'a Pakistan and Iran and especially in the western countries, may decide not to return for a number of reasons.
                                  5.   LITERACY:
        The future Afghan society will be highly illiterate.                  ,
        Before the war, about 35% of school-age children in Afghanistan  were being    ?
   enrolled in schools. This figure is estimated to have dwindled in the refugee camps in Pakistan and liberated areas to a combined total of 7-8%. The child who was born when the war began in 1978 is now 12 years old. A vast majority of such children have not been able to go to school, either in refugee camps or inside Afghanistan, and the scenario is repeated with regard to children of older ages who had no education or so little of it that for all practical purposes they could be called illiterate. Indeed, Afghans         have  raised a    v
   generation of illiterate population which is going to have a severe negative
   impact on all aspects of our society in the future.
                                             123
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 HANJfHflll                           VOL.  5 NO.  1
                               6.   THE HANDICAPPED
        Hundreds of thousands of war handicapped.
        The scene of maimed adults and children will be another product of the war which has to be addressed by initiating wide-ranging effective programs. My aim here is not only to point out the Afghan perspective vis-a-vis refugee repatriation. But to also know about the Afghan view of how to cope with this problem and that of illiteracy.
                                  7.  ELECTIONS
        The Afghans will insist on an elected regime.
        The people of Afghanistan differ on holding elections under difficult war conditions, to choose a leadership. The majority of them prefer an interim arrangement before conditions become suitable for ^elections.* After years of debate on whether general and universal elections were Islamic, the majority of Afghan organizations and elite favor elections. A great deal of literature has been produced ,by the Afghans legitimizing elections from an' Islamic ’ point---of view.
        This, coupled with the fact that elections present the Only practical solution 1 for having a proportional representation of Afghan,ethnic groups, both on central and provincial levels, will.make elections essential and desirable means in the future Afghan society.
                               8.   LAND OWNERSHIP
        Another issue to be watched in the post-war Afghanistan after the return of refugees will be the question of land ownership. As we know, many of the land owners have either been eliminated or have deserted their properties and have, sought refuge in the neighbouring countries. The1 mujaheddin and especially their Commanders have moved in and have cultivated some major portions of these lands. Once the refugees start to return, given the weak status of the governmental apparatus, the country will face a two-fold problem in this respect: (1) How
    will the survivors or inheritors of the land owners, already eliminated, assume land ownership; and (2) How much the mujaheddin, who have become the de facto owners of the land, will be convinced to give up the acquired .property?
                                             124
    OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991    AfGHANJ[HftD                VOL. 5 NO. 1
        NEW BOOKS
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The Afghan Jehad is giving specifics of each book as theyhave been given in the book itself• Data not mentioned have not been given in the book.
     (1)   ISLAMIC JEHAD IN MODERN TIME, VOL. 1. (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Mohammad Asef Mohseni, Publishers HIA (Mohseni), 240 pages.
     CONTENTS: Islamic jehad; legislation  of  jehad; objective of jehad; virtues of
     jehad; motives for foresaking jehad; Quranic verses on jehed; legality of launching struggle against states and its reasons, jehad against the followers of the Book (Jews and Christians) and a discussion of poll-tax paid in lieu of conversion to Islam (tribute); conditions for paying tribute by non-Muslims in an Islamic society; je^ad with rebels; dimensions of' jehad; the jehads undertaken by the Prophet. Mohammad, pence be upon him.
     (2)   JEHAD IN MODERN TIME. VOL. 2 (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Mohammad Asef Mohseni; publisher: HIA (Mohseni); 216 pages.
     CONTENTS: The author ; has quoted .the verses of the Holy Quran concerning jehad, and written commentaries on them.
     (3)   RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF WOMEN IN ISLAM (DARI)
     AUTHORS: Prominent  Islami  scholars  of  Harakat (Mohammadi); publisher:   the
     Jamiat-ul-Ulama-e-Mohammadi, 240 pages.
     CONTENTS: The philosophy and virtues of hejab (veil), injunctions in regard to assuming public posts by women; the condition of women before Islam; the position of woman in Islam; present status of women, the injunction of equality between man and woman; proof of the superiority of man- over woman; injunctions regarding the issue of women serving as head of the state (imam); women and: judiciary; primiership; ministry; governorship; women’s and their right to teach; prohibited fields of knowledge for women; Islam does not consider women as a "property"; women and the . right to vote; woman has absolute fight to voting;. injunctions concerning Women's vote for the selection of Imam (Head of State); natural differences between man and woman.
                                              125
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AIGIIANJIHAO                   VOL.  5 NO. 1
      (4)   THE FUTURE OF ISLAMl AFGHANISTAN FOURTH SEMINAR (DARI)
          Collection of Articles and discussion by Afghan scholars; publisher: CCAR; 387 pages.
     CONTENTS: The articles and discussion presented to CCftR seminar field in November 1990 in Islamabad on the future of Afghan economy.
      (5)   THE FOUR KHALIF: SUCCESSOR OF PROPHET MOHAMMAD (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR:  Prof. Burha’nuddin Rabbani; translated in Pashtu by Shamshuddin Shams;
     publisher: JIA; 61 pages.
     CONTENTS:, Studies on the activities of the Khalifs of Islam:  Abu Bakr Seddiq,
     Omer-e-Frpuq, Hazrat-e-Usman and Hazrat-e-Ali.      '» •
      (6)   ISLAMIC INJUNCTION AND MUJAHEDDIN (DARI)
     AUTHOR:  Mawlana Jalilullah; publisher: The  Al-Bunyan Islami Press  Center; 232
     pages.
     CONTENTS? It is a guide to mujaheddin about penances or punishments prescribed by Islam in regard to: Those who curse others; indulge'in drinking alchoholic beverages; commiting audutary; discussion of accusing some one with the crime of adultdry; a discussion of light punishments; discussion of theft; discussion of -highway robbery; injunction concerning Qesas (retaliation of killing for killing).
    (7)   ISLAMIC MOVEMENTS OF AFGHANISTAN (DARI)
AUTHOR:   Sayyed  Hadi
International Studies 229 pages.
Khesraw iShahi; publisher:’ Institute of Political and of the Foreign Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
     CONTENTS: Details about seven officially established Peshawai: and eight officially established Irani based Afghan parties. Contains appendixes on Afghan tribes and religious denominations and details on Shia-Sunni relations in Afghanistan .
     (8)    ISLAMIC ETHICAL VALUES (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Mawlawi Mahmood Darswal; publisher: CCAR, 579 pages.
     CONTENTS: It is a guide of Islamic ethical values and regulation concerning the details of a Muslim in his daily life substantiated by verses from the Holy Quran, the Hadis and other acceptable Islamic authorities.    V;
     (9) "STANDARDS* IN SHARIAT (DARI)
          Prepared and published by: The Committee of Mujaheddin Ulama; 60 pages.
     OCTOBER-DECEMBERf 1991 flfllllAN J[HA0                       VOL.  5 NO. 1
     CONTENTS: The amount of Zakat (obligatory aims, the amount of which is prescribed by Islam); sadaqa-e-fetr (a Isms to be given away on specific occassions or conditions); payment of loans under ^ circumstances of. changing rates or inflationary conditions; the metric system compared to Islamic scales and standards.
     (10)   IMPERSSIBLE RELIGIOUS REVISIONS AND INNOVATIONS AND CUSTOMS (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: M. Zahedi Ahmadzai; publisher: TheEkhlas newspaper; 289 pages.
     CONTENTS: Differences between customs and innovations; kinds of revisionism;
     revisionism in prayer; revisionism or innovations in burial and condolence services, political revisionism, other kinds of revisionism; suggestion for eradication of revisionism^                                             •
     (11)   ISLAMIC KNOWLEDGE (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: Dr. Ali Sheriati; translator and dommentator: . Ajruddin; publisher:
     "Qiamat" publications; 129 pages.
     CONTENTS*: Islamic "open mindedhess" and tolerance; anthropology; the philosophy of history; ideology^ continuation of historical phases; better ways of argumentation; bases of' belief; sociological research from he view point of Islamic school of belief; the "war" between Abel and Cain, methods of sociological studies.
     (12)   ISLAMIC INJUNCTIONS AND ETHICAL VALUES (PASHTU)
     AUTHOR: M. Zahedi Ahmazai, publisher: The Ekhlas1newspaper; 78 pages.
     CONTENTS: It describes the Islamic injunction in regard to a selective topics of social relations.
     (13)   WARNING OR LESSON (DARI)
     AUTHOR: Sayyed Husain Anwar1; publisher; HIA (Mohseni); 53 pages...
     CONTENTS: Analysis of current situation under headings of defeat and decline;
     the rble of leadership; Eastern and Western imperialism; both sides of the same kind; dangers of reliance oh others.
     (14)   0. MUSLIMBROTHER (DARI)
          Translation of articles written by Prof. Sayyaf. by. Abdul Haq At,eed; publisher IIA; 141 pages.
     CONTENTS: Collection of 24 articles by IIA, Leader Sayyaf in regard to current events published at different times in the Al-Bunyan-ul-Marsoos magazine in Arabic:                    •-v '   '                          i
     (15)   THE HARAKAT-E-ENQELAB-E-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN (HEIA) (PASHTU)
     PUBLISHER: HEIA (Mansoor); 187 pages.
                                                       127
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DIRIIAN JIHAU                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
       CONTENTS': Collection fof speeches by the leader of HEIA Nasrullah Mansoor on
       different issues at different times.
       (16)    KEY TO THE SUCCESS OF JEHAD (PASHTU)
            Speech by HIA leader Hekmatyar; publisher: HIA (Hekmatyar); 48 pages.
              . ■ . ’ ^ . . • ' ' . •
       CONTENTS: Text of speech by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar delivered 9 April, 1991 at Jehad University on the Afghan problem.
       (17)    THE AFGHAN JEHAD: THE REAL HOPE OF ISLAMIC UMMAH (PASHTU)
          ' • • . ■
            Speech by Qazi HuSsein Ahmed? publisher: HIA (Hekmatyar)
       CONTENTS:  Speech delivered by the JI leader of, Pakistan on the1 occassion of the
       liberation of Khost by the mujaheddin in 1990.
       (18)    THE AFGHANISTAN ISSUE (DARI)
       AUTHOR:  Afghanzoy (refugee in U.S., psuedo-name); published by Sayyed Mohammad
       Maiwand, Delhi? 19 pages.
                       ■                                        . i                    '
       CONTENTS:  The domestic and international dimensions of the Afghanistan issue;
       the USSR and Afghanistan? Pakistan and Afghanistan; negative impact of Pakistani approach? Afghan instigations against its neighbours? leftist fundamen-. talism in change? characteristics of Islami fundamentalism; Islamic parties and women's movement? terrorizing the Afghans, Afghanistanists? liberals and democrats.
       (19)    END OF MARXISM (PASHTU)
       AUTHOR:  Nasser Makarem Shairazi; translator:    Ajruddin? publisher:   JIA;  120
       pages.                                 .
       CONTENTS:  The past and future of Marxism; knowledge vS. Marxism; "philosophical
       suicide"? the "open mindedness" of Marxism? the crumbling of Marxism? basis doctorine of socialism and communism.
       (20)    JIRGAH OR HISTORICAL LOYA JIRGAH (DARI)
       AUTHOR: "N.A.M.H."? 64 pages.          \
       i'    # .           i ,            .                            .
       CONTENTS:  Famous jirgahs of 17th century by Meer Wais Hotaki aihd others; the
       Loya Jirg.ah of Ahmad Shah Baba and others in 18th century; jirgahs of 20th century; representative Loya Jirgah of the refugees? the results and fruits of the Rawalpindi Consultative Council. ,,
       (21)    ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH (PASHTU)
            Prepared by doctors team; published by the AIC3 Ministry of Public Health; 31 pages.                          ,
                                              128
  OCTOBER -DECEMBER, 1991    AfGHMI JIHAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 1
   CONTENTS:  Pictorial pamphelet on ways to keep the environment ,clean .and
   hygienic.                                                               - ' .
   (22)    THE UNFORGETTABLE FACE OF JEHAD (PASHTU)
   AUTHOR:  Shohrat Nangyal; publisher: Cultural Department  Of Jalaluddin Haqqani
   Fronts; 91 pages.                                                  •
   CONTENTS:  Biographical data and achievements of three Afghan jehad martyrs:
   Mawlawi Fatehullah Haqqani* Mawlaw,i Ahmad Gul and Mohammad Ismaeel.
   (23)    WHAT IS HAPPENING TO ISLAM (DARI)
   AUTHOR: Ali Ahmad Baxir; translator: Abdul Haq Atteed; 314 pages*
   CONTENTS: Story of a prince from Khwarazm dynasty who was sold as a slave and later who repels the devastating Tatarand Genghis invasions and transforms the Islamic history.
   (24)    HOW DID THE ’RED STAR’ FALL? (PASHTO)
   AUTHOR: Hayatullah Wahdat; publisher: "Radio Voice of Afghanistan"; 343 pages.
   CONTENTS: Statements by 55 Soviet POWs. The writer .says': I have done my best to report each word and sentence of POWs correctly. The book appendixed pictures 'and documents.
   (25)    ’JAWAR" IN THE DAWN OF HISTORY (PASHTU)
   AUTHOR:  Shohrat Nangyal; publisher: Cultural Department  of Jalaluddin Haqqani
   Fronts; 118 pages.
   CONTENTS: Describes  the mujaheddin achievements  in a main  -jtehad battle front
   i,n Paktia- the "Jawara" front.
   (26)    THE KEY TO KNOWLEDGE (DARI)
   AUTHOR: Mohammad Abdul Hameed Aseer (Qandi Agha); 253 pages.
   CONTENTS:  An attempt to. explain the difficult poems of famous Persian poet.
   Baidel (Born 1675 ).  ' 1
   (27)    THE WANDERING SHAHID (PASHTU)
   AUTHOR: Habibullah Raffie; publisher: Aman Book Publishing, Institute; 96 pages.
   CONTENTS: New study on the life and family ties of the 18th century Pashtu Poet Razeem Shaida. The author has presented document to show he was grandson of famous Poet lauret Khoshal Khan.
   (28)    ORAL LITERATURE OF NOORIStAN (DARI)
   AUTHOR: Samiullah Taza; publisher: WUFA; 338 pages.
                                        • 129
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 Afflllllli(fOiAfl              VOL-  5 NO. 1
    CONTENTS: A glance at oral literature of Nooristan; hymns; religious hymns; epic poems, musical songs; proverbs; puzzles, fables,and stOries.
    (29)   THE MOURNING OF FLOWERS (DARI)
    POET: Sayyed Mohammad All Javid; publisher: HIA (Mohseni);.188 pages.
    CONTENTS: Jehadic, patrotic, social and love poems.
    (30)   TENTS AND SOBBING (PASHTU)
    POET: Dur Mohammad Afghanyar; 254 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of his jehadic, nationalist; satirical and love poems*
    (31)   FROM AGGRESSION TO RUNNING AWAY (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Faryadgar; publisher: WUFA'f 28 pages.
    CONTENTS: Peotical presentation in the form of couplets of the Russian invasion and defeat in Afghanistan.
    (32)   SWORD AND PEN (PASHTU)
    POET: Saeed Rahbar; publisher: Jehad Culture; 154 pages*       >
    CONTENTS: Collection of poems by the Pakistani poets describing the Afghan tragedy and mujaheddin heroism. The author has also included his own poeftis•
    (33)   TRAGIC MEMORIES (DARI)
    AUTHOR: Al-Haj Ghulam Muhayuddin Amin Nawaee; publisher: NIFA; 154 pages*
    CONTENTS: Stories, memories and sentiments of the jehad and revolution period in couplet, elegy, composite-tie(poems of several stanza of equal length) and teturri-tic (strophe-poem)*                              *
    (34)   THE MIST OF HEART (PASHTU)                                          -
    POET: Sultan Mohammad Saber# publisher: The Heywad newspaper, 72 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of. love and social poems *containing material on the Afghan-British war as well.
    (35)   IN THE DEPTH OF DARKNESS (PASHTU)
    AUTHOR: Zubair Shafiq; 124 pages. .
    CONTENTS: a short story reflecting jehadic and social themes.
    (36)   WAILINGS IN MELODIES (PASHTU)
    POET: Esmat Qaney; publisher.; JIA; 93 pages.
    CONTENTS: Collection of jehadic poets and hymns under the title of "Helmahd'1 written in elegant literary language.
130
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
             J.  * • • • -—
THE MUJAHEDDIN

 Gailani said, the US Secretary of State and Soviet Foreign Minister in their meeting not only discussed arms
  Afghanistan Qalb-e-Asia
                                                        SEPTEMBER
               24
 NEWS ITEMS: Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan, Deputy of HEIA (Mansoor) and in-charge of weekly Kuasar was shot by unknown persons 22 September in Bagh-e-Naran area of Hayatabad, Peshawar, wounding him seriously. His condition is said to be critical. The assailants, however, escaped and no group has claimed the responsibility for the shooting.
   Regarding the stoppage of arms to the Afghans the . President of AIG said: The stoppage of arms is more detrimental to the mujaheddin, since . Najib has stockpiled the 'weaponry, it is furthermore more harmful to the parties of mujaheddin who are called the moderates. They are after a
 political solution, , they want a reasonable way and seek peace and security in Afghanistan.
 - In regard to the stoppage of arms, Ayatullah Mohseni, leader of HIA, has said, as Muslims and peace lovers, we seek peace and on the other hand we Swill not at any cost dispense with our objectives and, as long as the
 communists are in power, we shall continue our jehad* When we started our v jehad, we did not expect the - US and Saudi Arabia to send us weapons arid now1 that the supply has stopped long ago it will make no difference either, r Pertaining to the arms cut agreement, between US and Russia, Sa'yyed Mohammad’ Gailani, son of Pir Sayyed Ahmad
                                                                           132
 cut-off but the UN peace plan has also been supported. We are satisfied with this and shall support any step taken towards the political solution oft Afghanistan issue. In regard to arms cut-off, we must say that arms supply to our organization was stopped 18 months ago and the entire weaponry was received by organizations like HIA (Hekmatyar); as such arms cut-off does not affect us so much.
 - Heshmatullah Mujaddedi, brother of. Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, AIG President said, assistance to us should not have been stopped because our jehad is justified and we have not yet reached our goal.
                               OCTOBER
                                     14
 NEWS ITEMS; The AIG President, . Sebghatullah' Mujaddedi said'"' around 150 Afghans will get together in Geneva to discuss the Afghan problem, the political solution of the Afghanistan. problem and the establishment of a future government. On his return from New York, he rejected Boris Pankin' s*. proposal regarding the inclusion of Ex-King Zaher Shah and Khaliqyar, the 'Prime Minister of Kabul regime, in the future government of Afghanistan arid, added tha£ this proposal was from Kabul and not from the Soviets, made through the Soviet Foreign minister to mujaheddin. Mujaddedi added, however, in case Ex-King Zaher Shah is acceptable to the majority of Afghans he would not oppose it.
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 v AMMANJW/lfl                    VOL. 5 NO. 1
 -Mohammad Younus Qanooni, Political Chief of the Commanders' Council, has said in an interview: In case the Kabul regime transfers the power to the Afghan nation then there will not be any need for continuity of war. '
                                                              NOVEMBER
                9
 REPORT: Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,
 President of AIG, recently in an interview with the Associated Press said that he has become tired of continuous Pakistan interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan; These remarks by Mr. Mujaddedi, aimed at defending the Islamic and national interest , of the muslim nation of Afghanistan, was - intentionally misinterpreted by Pakistani newspapers and the Pakistani Newspaper The Frontier Post and the Muslim Newspaper ' in articles criticising Mr. Mujaddedi tried to say that the! Criticism by Mujaddedi of Pakistani authority were actually aimed ait opposing the brotherly and Muslim people of: Pakistan.
     Following this a statement was released by the Press office of the AIG Presidency which says that Mr. Mujaddedi during the past 40 years has always supported and defended his 'Pakistani brethren and our complaint was only about the intervention of a number of Pakistani military officer in our internal affairs and was not a denial of the assistance and cooperation of the government and people of Pakistan of our 3 million, refugee and the jehad of Afghanistan,
     Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales one, of the jehad leaders, while rejecting Mujaddedi's remarks in Muslim newspaper interview, said our enemy want *s to create mis-understanding between the Pakistani government and leaders of the resistance and the only -objective behind such, plots was to sow the seeds of hostility . and pessimism between
 Pakistan and the future government of Afghanistan and Mujaddedi should have realized the sensitivity of the situation.
       Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HI A; in a message which according to' the Shahadat newspaper; was sent from the interior of the country, has’ not mentioned Mujaddedi by name but in a note published by the Shahadat newspaper, as introduction to Hekmatyar's message, has said that Brother Hekmatyar in a message from the interior of the country in regard to the baseless propaganda of a So-called
 leader against the Muslim nation of Pakistan has said, "those who launch propaganda against Pakistan, do not represent the Afghan nation and mujaheddin. Pakistan has never interfered in'our internal affairs."
       I'    .                    ■ ,
       Following the remarks by Mawlawi, Khales and Mr. Hekmatyar and their opposition to Mr. Mujaddedi, the AIG leader in a speech once again emphasized the interference of Pakistani military in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and revealed that Pakistani military officers last year tried to destroy the Kajaki Dam in the Helmand province and right now plans are being hatched to destroy the Naghloo and Daroonta dams. He added, without the knowledge of AIG* fighting was started in Gardez and Jalalabad and this clearly showed Pakistani military intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. He said that his purpose > was to defend the national and Islamic interests of the Afghan nation. He.said his political opponents wanted. to show him as an anti-Pakistani figure and exploit the situation.
       While Mr. Mujaddedi, because of* his remarks about Pakistani intervention in the -internal affairs of the Afghanistan, was strongly pressured and the Pakistani press also tried to ^rand him as an anti-Pakistani figure and his political opponents, by opposing his‘
   •             '   • •                ‘ ' t
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
   remarks, tried to express their gratitude and friendship to Pakistan, Mr. Mujaddedi told emphatically a large, gathering of Afghan, Pakistani and foreign reporters: some Pakistani military officers are encouraging the Afghan mujaheddin to blow up dams in Afghanistan, however the mujaheddin are refraining to do so.
      He said we have very good relations' with Pakistan but we cannot ignore our national interests.
      Mujaddedi during the past 12 years has been the only leader who had ■ continuously criticised the Pakistani authorities and has with clear terms and without any fear preferred the Islamic and national interest of the Muslim and free nation of Afghanistan . over beseeching for no reasons the aliens and those who favor the aliens and with a clear and loud voice has defended the independence and national interests of Afghanistan. His latest remarks have further made him popular among the mujaheddin and all groups of the Muslim Afghan nation.
   A rman-e-Mujahcd
                               OCTOBER
                21
   INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Rafiullah Moazzen,
   leader of HEIA (Moazzen), in an interview with the Arman-e-Mujahed reporter,
 * observed: God willing, the sun of
   freedom will soon rise up in Afghanis^ tan and the bipod of 1.5 million martyrs, shed in the way of Allah and justice, will contribute to the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan; however, the primary (♦» condition being that of sincerity and unity among the mujaheddin. To a
 question regarding the non-participation of some organizations in the current talks pertaining to the political solution, he replied: This is an issue of the entire Afghan riation, and without the majority support, neither peace will prevail in Afghanistan nor the Afghan issue will be solved. He said, the mujaheddin will keep their trenches active till the communist regime of Kabul is toppled.
                              NOVEMBER
              21
 NEWS ITEMS: The mujaheddin in Herat
 have liberated two villages and one military post . from the enemy.
 * They have killed eight enemy personnel in Bagram Airport.
 * A delegation headed by Dr. Abdullah Mohsen Turki has come to Peshawar. Members of * the delegation are Dr. Saleh, Sheikh Abdullah, and Dr. I jlal'. The delegation held a meeting with Eng. Hekmatyar aimed at bringing about conciliation. The delegation told news-men that the Kunar disputes and tention will be solved through negotiations.
              OCTOBER
      23
 * "Problems of the Azadi newspaper still exist". "The paper, which was published as a daily, and stopped publication some months ago, says it has brought out this edition so that it may not be forgotten.
 REPORT; During an obituary ceremony for Engineer Zabihullah, in a speech on
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfflllJIIIJlllllfl                                                                            VOL.   5     NO.    1
 curret issues, Engineer Hekmatyar 3 October  observed:  The   Kabul regime is
 so much perturbed presently as it was never before. The entire members and
 government personnel have lost their hope and confidence and are looking for
 loopholes to get out of the regime circle. He added, high level and senior
 officials are contacting mujaheddin with a   view tp join     them. If I name
 those senior off icers arid personnel who want to join the mujaheddin, you will
 be taken aback and would not believe it but, God willing, you will x witness
      '    '     , '        ’   . . ' • ' I
 their leaving the1 enemy ranks and joining the mu jaheddin • in a few days time.
      The HI A leader said, our policy towards  those leaving the regime     and
 repenting their past behaviour is one of receiving them with open arms and we assure   them that we     will honor  our
 commitment . We are following the foot steps of our Holy Prophet, peace be upon him, in doing so. Otherwise we are
 more than the rest averse to these murderers • of the nation. We are subservient and obedient to Islam and.
 whatever the Prophet of Islam, peace be upon him, has done and Islam has ordained, we shall carry it out and
 would not care whether others blame us or not.
   . Concluding, the HIA leader said, we are expecting an important development any moment. I briefly say that the regime's days are numbered, all the conspiracies against jehad are being frustrated by God Almighty and consequently, God willing, the mujaheddin -will be able to establish a powerful Islamic government in Afghanistan. We are looking forward to those auspicious and blessed days.
 Basheer-ul-Momenat
   SEPTEMBER
          23
 EDITORIAL: "Guardians of Values". Dis-
 cussing the woman's stance in Afghanistan yester society, it writes, war against veil and the popularity of nudity, in the name of civilization and women's liberty, drove the society towards annihilation while they all acted as sympathizers of the downtrodden and oppressed community and their motto was to say that women have been oppressed over the centuries under the veil arid were deprived of their rights., They also claimed that women' have been kept aloof- from the Caravan of knowledge and culture and virtually prisoners and slaves to the family arid their spouses. Thus they had snatched away the greatest blessing i.e. the liberty from them. Therefore to compensate them for all this deprivation, short skirts and glamorous showing off were declared free for all. The, sacred religion of Islam, faithful to its values, and their guardian have never been against learning end the attainment of education and knowledge by women nor against liberty. While keeping hSr veil intact, woman' can still claim the restoration of her rights. The prestige and status Of woman is never defined in her nudity and passiveness. Keeping her veil intact and her charms covered, woman , does pot lose anything but, on the contrary» is gainful to herself, her family members and the society at large. In case a woman treads on the path of submissiveness, the entire code of ethics, morality and noble values will go to the dogs thereby destabilizing the whole family structure and dragging the society into the marshland of corruption. In case she faithfully holds on to her veil, then she can
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DfCIIAIIJiHilU                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
 become the guardian of family integrity and contribute to the stability of society as well.
    Islam offers Cover to woman, honors, and respects her and elevates her to the noble status of motherhood and gpouse without depriving her of her privileges. Those women who think that by undraping themselves they acquire knowledge, art, science and capability, must know that they have struck the hardest blow to , the warm , family structure and hc.ve deprived themselves of respect and glory and have turned themselves into tools ana toys in the hands of play-boys. From Islamic point of view the woman is a human being and equal to man, as' such, is entitled to
 all her rights and privileges.
     v ■'        ' '
     Now it is up to the guardians of Islamic values to promote and develop these lofty Islamic ideals and it is the duty of Muslim sisters to enlighten the enemies of Islam on the fact that through upkeep of veil and bashfulness they have attained perfection. Besides, the revival of these lofty values and their protection, with heart and soul, is also their obligation.
                                   OCTOBER
                21
 ARTICLE: "The refugee environment and the . problem of women's veil": In
 refugee environment, our sisters ought to protect their Islamic modesty all the more. They should not show off as "beauty pin-ups" and should not turn themselves into symbols of loose and corrupt women because this will not only hit their honor to rock-bottom but will also remain as a shameful blot for us. Where the bodies of our parents and brothers remain riddled with enemy ,bullets, where our sisters and children hopelessly die and where our youth are shielding their faith, honor and
 hqmeland againsjt the enemies of Islam with life   and  soul and   sacrifice
 themselves in the way of righteousness, how, far cruel arid inhuman it will be if here we, while leading a peaceful and comfortable life, cannot •protect our
 Islam and Afghan way of life.
                                  NOVEMBER
                24
 EDITORIAL: "It has been proved with’
 experience," says the editorial "that a woman void  of   veil has    a sexual
 attraction as long as she is young. But
 as soon as she looses her attraction
 she will become repentant.’
     "Women- should see that their real value and talent a^'e not overshadowed by their physical attractions and
 should not allow only these attractions constitute the real value of their personality. It is such an approach which has constituted the greatest blow
 to the true women personality inhuman society. The greatest cruelty the women have suffered in the modern world is that attention has been paid only to 'their appearance instead of their real and moral values.         *   \
     "The highest prestige of a woman lies in attaining the high standards of a spouse and mother. Her failure in this respect will deprive her of the high code of humanity and as a means for her downfall. The abundance of public nurseries and children's homes in Western countries* the high rate of divorce, the low standards of behavior in high schools and universities all point to the degradation of the woman. The only way out of all this is the veil. By this means the sanctity of families is preserved;
136
   SEPTEMBER - OCTOBER
 EDITORIAL: It is oyer 12 years now that the Supreme Jehad Council of HIA (Mohseni) has created history and epics
 in the blood stained homeland bunkers and the oppressed Kabul city, against the atheistic Russian adversary, and
 has been in the forefront giving direction, and unity to those fighting in the trenches. The Council, being
 pre-occupied with persistant , military obligations and/ administrative and security duties inside Afghanistan, was
 not engaged in cultural activities. However, now our noble jehad has been transferred to the negotiating tables.
 Multifarious efforts,, coupled with plots and intrigues are underway so that the fruits of our martyrs' blood
 be bargained to the advantage and benefits of some other country. Likewise misleading views in the name of Islam are expressed and needlesome policies and tricks are pursued by some of our friends. All this obliged us to
 start publishing the Burhan of Afghanistan. The Burhan will spell out the pains, . miseries toils and
 tribulations and deprivations of our oppressed nation and demonstrate the' rightful positions. It will analyze the political and jehad problems on the basis of realities. We request our respected, readers to assist us in realization of Burhan's Islamic revolution objectives; we hope that this newspaper will remain true to its meaning and ’ speak With sound argument and reason.
  NOVEMBER
                21
 INTERVIEW: Ahmad Shah Masood, Chairman
 of the Supervisory Council of the JIA, has told the BBC in ah interview, the communist regime in Kabul has continued its shameless and illegitimate rule in Afghanistan because    of            the unlimited
 political ;and military support. He said, he did not believe the war had reached a    deadlock. On            the contrary,
 the capture of Khost and Khwajaghar, south and     north of the country, this
 year, has shifted the situation in favor of the mujaheddin and, with every day passing. Our position improves. Regarding the establishment of a transitional government he said, according to his previous stand a neutral    third party                  comprising
 dignitaries, refugee representatives and those living in the country should form such a government provided they are not members of the Watan Party or involved in the massacre of the people.
  NOVEMBER
      16
 EDITORIAL:  "The  Commonwealth sessioi
 discusses the Afghan is^ue". The latest Commonwealth sessions were held in Harare, Zimbabwe, 16-22 October last. Among the items on the agenda was also that of the Afghanistan problem on which discussion took place. Though Afghanistan is neither a member of the Commonwealth nor had it participated as observer, the issue was taken up as is. the characteristic of colonial powers
137
 to own- aliens also. In these sessions the Afghan problem was discussed in the manner most suitable to their satanic and infidel tastes, "it supported the five-point UN plan announced through the UN Security Council."
   In qelab-e-ls larn i
     Afghanistan
                                                      NOVEMBER
             28
 -EXPLANATION : The enemies of Islam and
 the Islamic revolution, following the outstanding victories achieved by the mujaheddin in political and military fields, have again resorted to their rotton and .old intrigues of creating rift among the mujaheddin ranks by releasing a declaration under the, name of the Cultural Committee of the JIA
          'v  ' '                 .. •
 central office in Tehran against the HIA. . \
                                                The JIA Cultural Committee in
        1 '   y        . ■   . . . „
 Tehran, while denouncing the declara; tion, would like to inform the Afghan nation that, on the basis of its Islamic . and revolutionary principles and policies,it is proud to state that during the 13 years of active jehad and resistance it has never carried out the slightest propaganda against any of the mujaheddin groups and has constantly worked for their unity and alliance.
    SEPTEMBER
           24
NEWS ITEMS: Facing trying conditions
and fighting its last ditched battle with life, the Kabul regime is
 struggling hard to avail itself of the last opportunity for survival. One of these fruitless efforts is the creation of an organization by the name of "Movement, for freedom, democracy and freedom." This will be participated by so called independent writers and intellectuals, who are already supporting the national conciliation plan. It is to be mentioned that the appearance qf this new body based on non-Islamic "ideology and- inspired by the Kabul government, is similar to other movements inspired by Najib’s democratic imaginations akin to the. National Salvation Society. This entire display is no more than sheer exhibitionism and' so called peace-seeking gestures of the ruling Kabul regime aimed at prolonging their reign and by no means can have the same value as participation in determining the fate of the nation.
 * Teacher Amanullah, a jehad commanders of, "Abraham, The Idol Breaker”,who recently visited Peshawar, has said, confirmed reports speak of ethnic discord among various communist wings in most of state organs and even in the regime leadership circles which has caused political instability and tension to the leaders. During this sensitive turn of events, if jehad process is continued harmoniously and segaciously, the banner of victory will not be far to flutter on lofty hill-tops of freedom.
                                                             OCTOBER ’
                                         23
 EDITORIAL: While discussing what the
 paper calls imperialist position vis-a-vis the Afghan issue, concludes: "...
 as long as there is no reasonable, comprehensive and Islamic way to the solution of Afghanistan problem found out/ to be hopeful towards the settlement of the country's case,’ through political compromise will
 138
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 be absurd,- The basic# comprehensive and satisfactory way to the solution of Afghanistan crisis is that 'primarily all the so-called foreign sides stop meddling, openly or secretly, in our country's affairs and leave our people alone to their fate so that they may create a.cherished and chosen political system of their own and, secondly, the solution to the Afghanistan problem neither lies in the so called big get-togqtherings of Geneva nor in , the, presumptuous Soyiet-US agreements. As a matter of fact, the solution to the Afghanistan problem depends on the theoratical and practical solidarity of the entire jehad forces and Islamic Afghan procedures. We should adopt a joint strategy and stop the prevailing disarray and this will be the only way that will lead to solving the problem.
                                                                NOVEMBER
                20
 EDITORIAL: "Political .initiatives and
 armed struggles". The editorial while considering political efforts and armed struggle as related to each other, writes, "it is on the basis of thin fact that negotiations will not result
 In a miracle without the logic of armed struggle. On the contrary, it will be similar when war is not supported with the submission to a logical political
 reasoning. However, bloody struggle and strong logic, each used at the appropriate time, will lead the society on the right path.
     It is hoped that the delegation to Moscow, which will be responsible for the initialling Of the first agreement
 with the Soviets, will remember the mujaheddin aspirations and not influenced by the liberal diplomacy of the Soviets."
 Will            VOL. 5 NO. 1
       Ferogh
                                 OCTOBER
        ■     7
 EDITORIAL: "On the jehad leaders' visit to Moscow". Discussing a number of problems, the editorial concludes: Henceforth, the Russians cannot tolerate, maintain and support the Kabul regime. Therefore, they want to relieve themselves honorably ftom this dilemma and they also know very well that the mujaheddin were after toppling the Kabul regime- a remnant of their invasion.
                                               Therefore, acquainted fully with mujaheddin•stance and desire, they have
 offered this invitation and, surely, during these and future ! talks, they will demonstrate more flexibility, although it is premature to express an opinion or jump at the conclusion and
 more time is required. However, the conditions are such that it is possible that the mujaheddin will be in a favorable y position. However, under prevalent sensitive circumstances, one should stress the main and basic obligation of political and jehad leadership* In case there is unity among them, good intentions prevail, selfishness and ambitions are put aside and with a harmonious and joint purpose remnants of aggression and establishment of an Islamic government are , sought, the mujaheddin will undoubtedly succeed; otherwise not only their cause will be lost, but others will seize the initiative. Our people are hopefully looking forward to the successful journey of their leaders and wish them god speed.
OCTOBER‘DECEMBER > 1991 AffUfAlf JIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 1'
                           NOVEMBER
              6
 EDITORIAL: "The uncertain future". The
 editorial says: World arrogance which
 had invested in our country for years in order to establish governments which will take their orders from them and deprive our people of the blessings of literacy and knowledge and by this means have managed to prevent the country from forging ahead to prosperity, are well neigh sure that, by creating rifts among the mujaheddin, they will be able to check the advance of the revolution and impose a' government upon us to secure their interests as in the past. Though our people are now aware of such alien intrigues, if the present situation continues, there is no guarantee to prevent them from causing further differences among us. We can only succeed wh^n we begin immediately towards unity, avoid extremism and selfishness and work only for the restoration of Allah's Rule and the establishment of an Islamic rule in the country.
 SEPTEMBER
          21
 EDITORIAL: "Where there are differences' there is no victory". Discussing the ominous outcome of differences in the light of history and Islam it concludes: In the light of this preface when we look at our present condition, it becomes clear that clashes, terrorisms; murders, differences, rifts, hypocricies, conspiracies with .infidels, demolitions and devastations, diseases* wanderings and miseries that we and our homeland have gone through all, are warnings that we come to our
 senses and abstain from tt\ese sins because sins are like wounds which eat into the vitals of the body. Sins wipe out the blessings and glory of life and food, knowledge and practice, prayers, position and status, leadership, ruling and reign.
     We must admit that our disobedience of God's orders made us subservient to those who do hot believe in God and even now if, we are incapable of rooting out- dissensions, differences, rifts, spite and ill-will, fratricide and destructions from amongst ourselves, we would not only be able to establiosh an Islamic government in Afghanistan but it is feared that another people may dominate us who will be non-believers in God. As such we should not be callous in neglecting God's punishment because God tortures those who are disobedient.
                                    OCTOBER
                7
 EDITORIAL: "Islamic movement, what dCes it mean?": Islamic movement is  an
 understandable acknowledged process launched by a group of people in service to Islam. It is necessary that the movement should be initiated by a group of people not through government official procedures because official move, even though it may be rendering Islami services, is considered'Separate from Islamic movement; as such duties performed by the Ministry of Islamic Endowment and . ■ Islamic Affairs or the Department of Public Enlightenment, etc, for 'Islam cannot be ' termed .as Islamic movement".
     An Islamic movement will comprise the following:  (1) It should be
 initiated by the people in the service, for Islam; (2) It should be launched through a coordinated system and (3) its particular object will be that of the aipplication of Islam and the
140
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DiGllilNJEHAt)                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
renewal of Muslim mode of practice. On the other hand-, an Islamic movement is based on the following three, principles:  (1) planning, (2) inviting
people to join the movement, (3)
      • I              1 '  -
educating them in Islamic movement and philosophy.
      It may be said that each one of the prevalent Islamic organizations is a Center for Islamic movement. However, I may clarify that Islamic movement should not confine its activities to a particular. organizational objective, sacrifice its original target, at the altar of politics and place itself at the mercy of a special stand. If we could have been able to protect the genuine features of Islamic movement, we could have saved ourselves the scourge of differences from the very outset. I repeat once more, the respected Islamic movement members are dutybound ■ to try for unity of leadership, re-organization of Islamic movement and the creation of a singular leadership. Otherwise we shall have neglected our genuine obligation and shall not be able, in this marshland of differences, to serve our cause.
                   22
   / . . . 1 " N; . . • ' REPORT:  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani,
General Commander of Paktia, told MIDIA representative in Gardaiz: The formation of coalition government in the name of mujaheddin with Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of Kabul puppet regimeis a stupidity .A; He rejected rumors' .that Khaliqyar is a’ non-communist and said that Khaliqyar is a known member of Communist Party and, like NSjib, is the butcher of the '••Afghans especially the people of Herat and,on his orders, thousands of , Muslims and . -"innocent people have been martyred. No real Muslim, mujahed Afghan will participate with Khaliqyar at the instigation of Russians and Americans,
      To a question pertaining to
 Khaliqyar, Haqqani answered that the so-called non-partisanship of Khaliqyar is a joint Najib-Russian conspiracy so that in the future interim govenment, Russian inroads may continue.
      Haqqani warned, the participant mujaheddin in Khaliqyar government shall be the targets of our bullets. He described jehad as the honorable way to the solution of the Afghanistan problem.
      Haqqani proposed that, under the prevalent condition, a national council of great commanders, prominent scholars, leaders of the organizations and jehad supporting intellectuals be called and from amongst them members of a Revolutionary Council or Executive Council should be chosen.. The remaining members of the national council should .constitute an interim legal Islamic government and members of revolutionary council or executive, who will be deciding main issues, will be supporting the interim government and supervising the general affairs.
                 28
 EDITORIAL: "What will the Moscow bound
 delegation carry and what will it bring?". There is no doubt left that the justified Afghan jehad is on the threshold ... of victory but this should also be noted that those encouraging political solution to the problem have nothing in common with mujaheddin as far as their belief and ideology are corieerried .. This is also known that no respectable and Muslim mujahed is satisfied with this kind of political solution, i However, regardless the stances of mujahed leaders, where they may differ in details, generally it will be' known to the pro-negotiation' side that they are .pressurized from Outside the Afghanistan borders. There are even now some paities which are sensitive to the political and imposed
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991       {HflllflNJ[illl(l        VOL.  5 NO. 1
f        f     ' > ,
     solution but nevertheless readily
     attend the closed-door sessions taking
    ■ / 1 ’ ; sides for fear of aid cut-off and also
     to implement their plans for the time
     being.
         From legal point of view as also for 'a mujahed nation a neutral government is a shameful suggestion.'
     How can the delegation and leaders who have remained in Peshawar, enter Kabul in an atmosphere of tranquility, under the umbrella of a neutral government consisting of communists and still ■». fulfill, the aspiration of 1.5 million
     martyrs and of hundreds of thousand communists (stet).
         As such it behoves the Moscow bound delegation and the leaders who remain in Peshawar to leave the compromise issue with such a government to the genuine representatives of the nation. Only .15 persons cannot repre- , sent a nation of 15 millions and that also in such a sensitive and important stage and with such a comical plan.
       Haqiqa t-ul-Islam
                                                               SEPTEMBER
                    19
     REPORT: Mawlawi Amanu.ddin, President of Students Movement, speaking in a student rally in Swabi 1 August observed,
     I dare say that the Afghan jehad is not only meant to defend Afghanistan but the defense of the entire Muslim world *. lies in this justified \ jehad. The Russians knew that Afghanistan, a poor and economically weak country in the; heart of Asia, can be used as a spring board to reach the Persian Gulf on the - one hand and the Indian Ocean on the other. In that case the domination of the entire world, particularly the Muslim world, would have been an easy job for the Russians. But grace be to
 God Almighty, the brave and Muslim nation of Afghanistan stood as a solid and unshakable rock in the way'of their forward march. The Afghans sacrificed two millions of their kith and,kin and defeated the Russians so much so that not only their dream of world hegemony was shattered but Russia itself started to disintegrate.
 - The UN Secretary General, during a meeting in Tehran with the Presidents of Iran and Pakistan Republics and some of mujaheddin leaders, said that he hoped the Afghanistan problem would be solved during his tenure of office. Replying Ghulam Ishaq Khan told him, if you continue your efforts with this speed, you will definitely reach your gOal.                 '
                                  OCTOBER
               7       :
 EDITORIAL: It throws light on the
 historical valour and struggles of the Afghans and recalls the positive policy pursued vis-a-vis the Afghan issue by the west during the presence of Russian forces in Afghanistan but condemns Western attitude after the Soviet withdrawal saying that, similar to Russians, the West is also against the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The editorial, while deploring the disunity among the mujaheddin leaders, writes, Afghanistan is a small country, every country needs a leader and, if we roll up our sleeves against the leaders of this small country, would this helpless country remain in one piece, and would it not disintegrate?
     Big and small, men and women, refugees and mujaheddin of Afghanistan earnestly request the respected mujaheddin leaders that, for the sake of God, Almighty and the peace of' the oppressed Afghan nation, forget their petty factional differences and, .for
                                                142
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGUAN JiUAI)                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 the sake of a bright dawn, get together like real brothers and choose one from among themselves as the leader, so that our hope for the establishment of a genuine Islamic .order is fulfilled, but if even now we do not ponder seriously and start day dreaming, while wide awake, about attainment of power, then God knows what would be the fate of this hopeless nation.-
     Time waits for no one. We have still time, in case our leaders forego their selfishness and choose one for political leadership, God willing we, shall be the winners in a few days time and Islamic order will, prevail in Afghanistan.
                                        21
 REPORT: A few days ago the.NO. 22 (S-l) plane of the atheist regime which has been newly produced in Russia, while bombing the Jurm division in Badakhshan was shot down by the mujaheddin. Colonel Abdul Mateen# the pilot of the plane was captured alive by the mujaheddin and he is now in Peshawar. The pilot in an interview with the MIDIA has said that his plane was the latest model made by Russia capable of carrying big cluster bombs.
     The 29 year old Abdul Mateen, who has graduated from a Soviet University,, said that the atheist regime has • 32 planes in Baghram Airport. In regard to other airports, he said, when the regime planes leave for bombing, mission, maps of the target area are given to the pilots: the pilots then 'have to bomb that area. He also added that the atheist regime planes usually bombed villages and civilian targets.
      NOVEMBER
 ARTICLES: In this article a religious
 student under the name of Haider has
 reflected on an article by Fatima Yaser published in the Afghan Jehad magazine oh ’Womens* right. The writer has jculed that educating women under present condition .is contrary to Islamid laws.. He has said women have no right to become President or Ministers.
 He says, Yasser for substantiating her points, has from time to time quoted verses of the Holy Quran and has referred to the Hadis. But it is not known whether she has seen in the Quran the verse which says that men are superior over women, or may be she has ignored that verse. He writes, Islamic jurisprudence say teaching the art of writing to women is not permissible because women, being defective in wisdom, cannot weigh the result of an issue, and therefore they might establish love affairs with men if they learn the art of writing. The Hadis (remarks of1 the Holy. Prophet, peace be upon him) quoted by Fatima Yasser about Hafas#, the Wife of Prophet Mohammad,.
 • peace be upon him, is applicable under specific conditions and its rule is.not general. It is tru^, that Ayesha another, wife of Prophet Mohainmad,- peace be upon him, was herself a teacher. But she taught only the Quran and the Hadis.
 She was not a teacher of science, mathematics, geography, etc. These subjects are delated to the affairs of the government, industry or agriculture and activities concerning these are undertaken outside the home and women are not allowed to work outside the home. It is the duty of men to do the outside work. We also say that acquiring of knowledge is incumbent on both men and women; for instance women * ought to learn about, the basic
 principles of Islam, matters related td their monthly period, eithical values, etc. but they are to learn these from such people who are allowed to see 'their faces such as their mothers, fathers, brothers sisters and husbands.
 They are not allowed to go outside the home and learn these from teachers who      m-
                         / 1 ,       ■    > :w
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
  are alien to them.
     Fatima Yasser says that seperate schools should be established for the women. Answer: It is not possible to
  have schools where no men will enter. Because, guards, drivers, and other manual workers of such institutions will be men and even if they are women they will surely meet men; at one or other point and if they are men, again there will be a mixing ,of two sexes. Af any rate, building such schools is not permissible.
     He writes during the time of,Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, women were taking part in jehad at a time when Quranic verses about the question of veil or hejaf> was not yet revealed. After verses concerning the issue was revealed women were not going outside their houses without specific needs and not allowed in the Shariat.
     Concerning another issue discussed by Fatima Yasser, he. says, for the women even if seperate hospitals are built' still it will not be possible to avoid their mixing with man. Surely services of men will be needed. At any rate, women in Islam are allowed to go to male doctors for treatment and even, if needed, the doctor is allowed to
       *                     —• _v, .' ■
  touch any special part of women in order to treat her.
     Prophet Mohammad* peace be upon ■him, had specified women’s duties and have delegated to them home affairs for the sake of preserving their honor and chastity.
  Inqeiab-e-Islami
     Afghanistan
                             OCTOBER
               12
  REPORT: ’’The Afghanistan jehad and its effect on the Soviet upheavals’!: This
  was the title of the seminar which was
 convened in JIA central office in Tehran 11 September. In this one day seminar  Afghan     scholars  and
 intellectuals delivered speeches and their resolution reads:
 - The struggle of the Afghan Muslim nation has played, an important role in recent Soviet changes and the Islamic jehad of our Muslim people has been instrumental in the disintegration of communism.
 • \ . . ■}
     If Soviet leaders are really interested to bring positive changes (stet) in the Soviet union they must stop meddling in the affairs of Afghanistan.
 - The Islamib countries, particularly the' Afghan jehad leaders, must extend all out support to the.Muslim republics' calling for freedom and liberation from the Russian Imperial rule.
 - The aggressive Red Army officers and men with their return from Afghanistan to the Soviet Union carried "freedom" as a gift with them and they were the Same officers and men who supported Yeitsim in defeating the communist coup and thus the presence of these officers and men contributed to the defeat of the recent Soviet communist coup.
 - In' order to make the most out of the current conditions, the jehad leaders must make their hold all the more tight on to the steady Islamic rope and close their ranks.
 Ittehacl-elslam i SEPTEMBER
               23
 MEWS ITEM: Mawlawi Mohammad Younus
 Khales,leader of HIA, in an interview with MIDIA 19 September said the visit
144
 0C1OBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 of the Afghan mujaheddin delegation to Moscow and their talks with the Russians will be tantamount to officially accepting the 409 agreements signed by the Russians with the Kabul regime, while these agreements are not recognized by us. He said, at this juncture, holding talks with an enemy who has looted all our wealth will riot' be acceptable and if the Russians are honestly trying to hold talks with the ■ Afghan mujaheddin and are seeking a just solution of the Afghanistan issue, it would be better to hold these talks in a third country.
 * The mujaheddin in, operations 19 September on Teera and Bland Kamar posts in' ’ Logar province, after conquering two posts, captured 23 Kabul regime militias including the commander of the 77th Brigade of Division 53. Also the mujaheddin captured four trucks loaded with arms supplies, 35 pieces of heavy and light weapon and some explosive and logistic material.
                                               30
 EDITORIAL:  "A look at latest Najib
 comments". It writes, while Najib regards the mujaheddin rocket attacks
 on enemy positions merciless and cruel, he .himself had been conducting air raids and attacks on a Muslim natibn with long-range missiles of mass
 destruction for the past 13 .years, and, yet, he has failed to refer to it as an act of crime. Why does he not repent
 his own crimes? Our mujahed nation should know that Najib's efforts of disinformation is aimed at finding a foothold for his phaky rule and causing
 rifts and differences among the mujaheddin organizations in order to prolong his shameful rule and Cover his crimes. God willing, the downfall of the regime in the hands of the faithful mujaheddin, is not far off.
VOL. 5 NO. 1
                  OCTOBER
 REPORT:  In  reply to the remarks of
 Russian Foreign Minister that one of jehad leaders assume the status of the Afghan Presidency and Khaliqyar, the (Kabul regime Premier retain his seat, Professor Sayyaf said, we do not give anyope the chance to impose on us any kind of regime. We shall fight any non-Islamic government not installed by mujaheddin. He said, those who .are calling the genuine mujaheddin as fundamentalists and are warning the public against the establishment of their government, are talking in the interest of imperialism. Because only a! genuine Islamic order can create a stumbling block for the imperialist powers.                              |
 * Professor Sayyaf sent a condolence
 message in connection with the martyrdom of General Fazal Haq to his family which was published by Al-Bunyan news agency. It states:    the  martyred
 General was a peerless soldier, a great military officer and a sympathetic close friend of the Afghan jehad. With his martyrdom we are deprived of a sincere friend. Haq was a . former Governor of NWFP,
 *  In reply to the question of MIDIA correspondent in regard to the rble of Zaher Shah and Khaliqyar in the future of Afghanistan, Professor Rabbani said 2 October, the Kabul regime is the remnant of Soviet Communist military invasion and the establishment of a coalition government with such a regime stands rejected. The imposition of ex-King or someone else through foreign powers is not acceptable to the Afghan mujahed nation. He said, the solution to the Afghanistan problem lies in non-interference by fpreign
.powers, the ouster of Kabul regime and the establishment of an Islamic government based on the free will of
145
october-december, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 the Afghan nation. He added that during the transitional period the establishment of a Government will depend on the initiative of jehad organizations.
 * The proposal of Khaliqyar as prime minister was described by Mawlawi Khales ^ as poisonous. He said, the current Afghan war is not for the sake of power or persons but aimed at the establishment of an Islamic government by resolute and responsible, quarters.
                     14

 REPORT:  Professor  Sayyaf,  leader  of
 IIA, in a press statement rejected UN Secretary General's invitation to discuss with communists the establishment of an Afghan transitory government in Geneva. He opined that the meeting was aimed at restoration of a status to those who wanted their crimes ignored. He said those far away from home, who were leading luxurious lives, had saved themselves and. their children and today claim that they have also the right of making decisions regarding the country's future. When they owed their motherland her right, then why were they silent and were not claiming to participate in battles. He added that it would.have been appropriate for the Afghans, away, from bunkers, that instead of clamouring for rights, they had supported the mujaheddin stance and views because, it is they who have given sacrifices for safeguarding their faith, homeland and honor. *
 * The mujaheddin leaders have vehemently rejected a statement of Khaliqyar, the Kabul regime Premier, that in the coming one month talks %ill be held in Geneva among Kabul government, mujaheddin and ex-King .Zaher Shah's representatives on the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan.
      Professor Sayyaf said,'mujaheddin will never participate in' such talks, on the contrary, they consider it against the principles, objectives and
 fundamentals of jehad. Those who sit with them in the name of mujaheddin are not mujaheddin nor they represent the mujaheddin. In this connection. Mawlawi Khales told the MIDIA correspondent, Najib and Khaliqyar have no status of President and Prime Minister to mujaheddin but are considered as mercenaries imposed on the Afghan people and, day in .and day out, they trouble and annoy them. Therefore, any kind of sitting or contact with them is inappropriate and impracticable. But: ip case a dialogue with the Russians is being aimed at, the same.can be carried out between the two sides in a third country. Professor Rabbani said, as far as we are collectively concerned, the mujaheddin 28-member commission, has already rejected such a meeting. There is no question of inter-Afghan dialogue with the present regime. To us, Najib and his lackeys like Khaliqyar and others are birds of the same feather, and this is upto mujaheddin to decide on the future policy.
      The spokesman of All Commanders Council said:   We oppose any kind of t
 sitting or discussion in a meeting with the Kabul regime representative attending it.
      Likewise Gabraeli, spokesman of ICCA, said, we reject any kind of discussion with Kabul regime, with or without Najib.
                         21
 EDITORIAL:   "Would  sitting  with the
 Russians' be a plus for mujaheddin?": The decision of mujaheddin-Russian talks in Moscow, while the Kabul puppet regime remain, in power in Afghanistan, is totally condemned and by no means is in the interest Of mujaheddin,nor does it lead to the toppling of Kabul regime.
      Therefore, true mujaheddin reject holding talks with the Russians until
146
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIJIIIJIHJIO                VOL.  5 NO. 1
 the Kabul regime*’ is in power. It , considers Russian-mujaheddin talks another trap to jehad objectives and whosoever, knowingly or un-knowingly nod his head in agreement to such a proposal, is actually committing a great wron'g, to the jehad cause and has gone astray from its objectives.
      It says, we hopei that leaders of jehad organizations, valiant commanders and heroic people will, with their prudence and foresightedness understand the dangers accruing from such untimely meetings and continously abstain from attending them so that their popularity and the jehad righteousness remain unscathed and are not smeared by their unclean objectives.
                                                28
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Sayyaf,leader of IIA, has warned Indian leaders to learn a lesson from the history of Afghanistan and refrain .from interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and' stop assisting the Kabul hireling regime. Commenting on the reports that, aftery the suspension of Russian assistance to the Kabul regime, the Indians would continue their assistance to Kabul regime, he said India should not interfere in the internal, affairs of the Muslim Afghanistan nation and respect the aspirations of this freedom loving people. If the Indian government hinders the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the Afghan mujaheddin alone are powerful'enough to frustrate the malicious designs of any country just as it frustrated the Russians.
 * The Al-Bunyan news agency, quoting informed sources 27 October, said that the IIA delegation will not go to Moscow with an Afghan -delegation for talks with Russian leaders ofi political future and formation of a mixed government in Afghanistan. Also the leader of IIA has said that no talks
 could be held with the Russians until they stopped their assistance to the Kabul regime and recognized the mujaheddin as the’ true representatives of the Afghan nation.
                              NOVEMBER
              4
 REPORT: Kabul provincg ulama, command-
 ers, mujaheddin and refugees and those of the south-western region related to IIA in separate meetings have condemned the UN 5-point plan, the mujaheddin delegation's vist to Moscow, the Islamabad and Tehran tripartite conferences and the mujaheddin delegation's visit to the UN. They have considered these as plots by world arrogance, led by the US and the Soviet Union, to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     A large number of commanders, mujaheddin and refugees had gathered at Shaheed Ghulam Mohmmad Niazi Auditorium 2 November where some ulama and Commanders delivered speeches and urged the continuation of jehad until the establishment of an Islamic government in the country.
                                       11
     Professor- Sayyaf, leader of IIA and Premier of the AIG, in ' a inessage from the interior of the country in regard to , the visit of a number of mujaheddin leaders to Moscow has said: "Today when a delegation is going to Moscow claiming to be representing the mujaheddin is actually going to the house of enemies of the Islamic nation of Afghanistan and humanity. - This is a dark page in the history of honor and grandeur of jehad. God knows well that we did our utmost to convince our brethren to refrain from going, however they did not listen to us and insisted upon their position; these brethren of ours are following the wrong path and
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 MANJM                           VOL. 5 NO. 1
       we pray Almighty,God to guide them.
             "We have undertaken this jehad because of our Islamic sentiments and for the sake of establishment of an Islamic order, and the Islamic order, is not going to be found in Moscow and it
       cannot be obtained•from Moscow because
                                                                                      * * ■ t
       Moscow is the center of atheism and 'infidelity over the earth. Talking with the people of Moscow about the future of our country is tantamount to putting a dark mark over the face of the free and Muslim nation of Afghanistan. Islam never permits ns to discuss the destiny of our future order and life with our enemies or to secure their agreement and consent in this respect
             "Our other word is to the friends and neighbours of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan: NO^matter what the rest of the world may think about our nation,; but you should be careful to know that these mujaheddin of^ Afghanistan who have suffered many difficulties and tribulations during the past 13 years, should not go away from you unhappy because all the enemies are.trying that the mujaheddin should go away.from you unhappy arid God knows that we do not wish strained relation between the mujaheddin and their Muslim frierids., At the conclusion I assure all the sincere Muslims that in Afghanistan there is no rgom for the possibility of establishing another system other than a government set Up by the mujaheddin".
                          18
       REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf leader of IIA and Prime Minister of the. AIG, expressing opinion, in regard to.the joint-Afghan Russian declaration has said:        The
       Russians have .no right from the Shariat point of view and nor on the basis ©f common .sense or political realities to participate in the process of self-determination. He has said that the interim government would hold
 *
 elections after two years and it is obvious that in these elections the infidels and Muslims both will .take part and this in itself is contrary to' Islamic commands and principles.
      He said, the mujaheddin know that the word "Islamic" has been added next to the interim' government in order to make it possible for the Russians and Americans to include psuedo3^ Muslims in: the government.              ,
      He has said, the mu jahed Afghan nation is awake. It will respond to this new plot as it responded to the British and Russian armies and in this country nO body else will be able to form a government     Other than the
 mujaheddin    and;  the   people     of
 Afghanistan will accept only a govern^* ment which, with’ the help of Almighty God, will be formed by the mujaheddin.
                  25
 NEWS ITEMS:   On  the occasion of IIA
 membership cards distribution officials of the IIA held a grand: meeting at Mianwali Camp 21 November. The meeting was arranged  by the  it A Committee Qf
 Organization arid. Training.
     ‘ /                              •
 * Khalil Ahmad Masood, IIA commander
 in Paktia, addressing his division
 said, after recent US-Soviet agreement,
                                                                it is quite clear that they are riot in favor of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. Giving hands to each other ; they are trying to impose a secular and illegitimate government on the Afghans.
 He said, "but our mujahed leader. Prof. Sayyaf, is fully aware of all their intrigues. We shall never accept Moscow's decisions regarding the future of Afghanistan and will continue our jehad until the establishment of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan."
148
/
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
                           DECEMBER
                               / 2;:: :
 REPORT: Prof. Sayyaf, leader of the
 IIA, told the Al-Bunyan, "our friends must know that the mujaheddin government will benefit them, as well as the Afghan nation and the Islamic world. Any other ,government will be a Russian or US puppet> Visiting the enemy's home is against Islamic .principles and Afghan traditions. They are the enemies of our faith and historical heritage and the blood, of our martyrs still drips through their teeth.
                        Jabha-e- Jehad
                             OCTOBER
                                   23
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Mujaddedi, President Of the AIG, returned to Islamabad after participating in the United Nations General Assembly sessions in New York. He told a press conference "there is no place for the Watan Party in the future of Afghanistan. The United Nations Seertary General's . 5-point plan was approved by the UN-General Assembly but any role for Najib and his Watan Party was rejected:'. He said, he was in favor of bringing military pressure on the Kabul regime; however, he was against .attacks on non-military targets.
 *  Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi,
 President of the AIG, m^t with Mrs. Teresita Schaffer, the Assistant Secretary for the Near East and' South Asian Affairs in the US Department of State,along with the: US Consul in
 Peshawar, , 20 October in his office. Issues related . to the political solution of the Afghanistan .problem were discussed.
 * Early snowfall in Nouristan- which
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
    ' . ,1
 began 20 September has destroyed 50% of cattle and crops in the area. Je]>ad organizations and international humani-tarian institutions have been asked for help; otherwise, the people of the area will be forged to seek refugee in Pakistan.               '
 Jehad Hindara
                             SEPTEMBER
             25
 EDITORIAL: "Fresh moves and excitment
 in the military jehad trenches? the beginning of all-out and joint operations":  As   a result of the
 initiatives and efforts of a number of valiant and prominent jehad commanders, as a result of the formation of .All Commanders Council on a national level and, as a result of . the continuous implementation of the Council *,s commitments and decisions, the stalemate, due to various : factors,’ in the military jehad field has been broken; the jehad ranks closed and got orderly and a. fresh excitement and vitality pervaded the mujaheddin and the output was so positive and prominent that no one could ignore it.
     In the beginning of the current year, the glorious Khost victory followed by successful and eye-catching conquests of mujaheddin in the northern, eastern, western and central parts of the country are the outcome of resolutions by the Commanders* Council.
                                                                              !
     As became apparent,, the operational plan for Gardaiz too, like ’the successful attack on Khost, wars prepared under the control of the Council, the various tasks of these new operations have been delegated to mujaheddin arid each sector shdll be carried out .under the supervision of regional councils and its general administration will be controlled by
149
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIAN J[HAi)
 the grand council Comprising the representatives of the entire jehad forces. Similarly/ in the remaining regions of the country like Nangarhar, Ghazni, Kandahar, etc. operational and assault arrangements, on regime military centers, are completed, preliminary tasks have been carried out and the mujaheddin are ready for all out operations and assault.
     These all out operations coincide with the joint Soviet-US agreement on their military aid-cut-off to both the combatant parties of Afghanistan war.
     Nevertheless, the mujaheddin, confident of God Almighty's support, empty handed but armed with the weaponry of Islamic faith, shall continue their jehad against the Russians and their puppets for glorification of the Word of God and elimination of atheism, infidelity, mal-admihistration, corruption and the establishment of an Islamic government in .Afghanistan. Through these solemn, allout and joint operations, the mujaheddin will prove to the world that aid or no aid is immaterial for them and not in the least dampens their determination. ,
                                    OCTOBER
                  2
 INTERVIEW* In regard to the start of Gardaiz operations, Mawlawi Haqqani observed in an interview: Prelimanary
 operations in the city of Gardaiz started 18 September and all the mujaheddin of Paktia and Paktika provinces are participating in the operation. Through the news media, ; radio and other means the mujaheddin have   distributed  posters       and
 declarations among civilian and non-military population of Gardaiz city telling them to seek shelter with mujaheddin so that their life, children and property be secured. He said; there
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 are more than 15,000 families living in Gardaiz i>ut: the number of Kabul regime troops is not constant, it increases and decreases. In war- time they add up to the number- of troops by bringing troops and militia reinforcement from elsewhere and at othere times, they decrease their number.
      In regard to Mujaddedi's claim that mujaheddin have not started operations on Gardaiz and Kabul regime is carrying bombardment which has adversely affected the peace process, he said, after the Khost victory, mujaheddin, in preparation for Gardaiz invasion, were busy in roads building, logistics and bunker building and have presently started the operations. Eiut Mujaddedi' s claim that Kabul regime bombardment had taken place earlier and that we have asked Pakistan to stop the battle, is not right, because we have started our assault oh Gardaiz and Kabul forces have no Chance other than to surrender.       ■'
                                                  9
 INTERVIEW:  In an exclusive interview
 with Jehad Hindarah regarding the visit Of mujaheddin delegation to New York and Moscow, Mawlawi Khales has observed, we have not agreed, to . this visit. According to the Holy Quran,, a Muslim should not flatter and be squeamish. He has said, "we believe that our mujaheddin will not do such a thing. Likewise it is in vogue in Afghanistan that the aggressor visits the aggressed and when the oppressed visits the house of the oppressor- a move, contradicting our Pashtun tradition of "Nenawat" (imploring and earnestly requesting)- I opine that our organizational leaders will consider the situation and will not stoop so low; but in case they do such a thing, we shall nOt agree with them."
      He explained his peace plan for Afghanistan in this way:      "Our war
150
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flflllMIN J[H/10
 started with the Russians and continues till today; this i,s not acceptable that we are at war with Kabul regime; this stance would have been acceptable only had the Kabuli puppet regime been installed by the Afghan nation or that they could have served any purpose without Russian .orders. This is a fact'that if they are told today by the Russians to stop fighting they will stop; if they are told to come to Russia, they shall go; if told to commit suicide they shall do it. Thus, they are considered Russian mil.iatias; and the genuine ' sides to the war are the mujahed nation and the Russians. I opine that the Russian^ and mujaheddin representatives discuss these problems in a neutral country. How can bloodshed be stopped? Ip the presence of a supreme or international mediator, acceptable to both sides, it may be discussed that what kind of sufferings we have endured and what is the extent of devastations in Afghanistan. In case the Russians do want to live with us as neighbours and accept that Afghanistan be liberated, then they should demonstrate their readiness to compensate the losses. We have suffered and all the treaties signed with their puppets must be abrogated. If they are really interested in stopping the bloodshed and if - the UN also' wishes the bloodshed come to an end, in that case real peace can- prevail and a free and indc ident Afghanistan could be establisl ' ."
                  13
 REPORT: Mawlawi Khales, leader of HIA, in answer to a question by the BBC as to why he has refrained, from sending his representative with the Afghan delegation to' Moscow has said:   The
 present Afghan war is not ah inter-Afghan fighting but is. a war between the oppressed nation of Afghanistan and Russia. This war still continues, our country is still the target of Russian cannons and bombs,the
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Russians right now are actively engaged in destroying our country. Under these circumstances and conditions talking about their POWs and other issues is an assailable act, especially if these talks are held.inside the Russian home. In no way we can agree with such talks.
      In regard to the outcome of talks to be held in Moscow by the Afghan delegation, he said:   I  think that the
 Russians will exploit two issues: First, increase the rnp among the mujaheddin and, second, ■_ these people who. are going to Moscow once again sold Afghanistan to the Russians and played •with jehad interests and agreed upon the formation of, a government serving Russian interests, a government which would confirm the agreements signed between the Russians and the Kabul puppet regime sipce 1978, the Russians will again achieve their objectives. My view is that this visit• will in no way serve the interests of the mujaheddin,"
I . .                -            V
 EDITORIAL:   "The basic way to the
 solution of the Afghanistan problem is to continue the, armed jehad": Throwing light on the Afghan sacrifices and world. conspiracies, the editorial writes, lately, the atheistic powers have activated their machinery of intrigues and political manoeuvres against ’ the Afghan mujahed nation immensely. On the pretence of political solution of the Afghan prpblem, they offer multifarious proposals, at times they talk of coalition government with the puppet regime and the Russians, and on other occasion surrender the interim period to the King. Therefore, the valiant mujaheddin, responding to the contradictory atheistic proposals, negating jehad aspirations, have launched their comprehensive operations south of Gardaiz and east of Jalalabad, and .have rejected these proposals by
 151
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANJ[H/lfl - '              VOL. 5 NO. 1
 , * their very action. Our mujahed nation has clarified from the very outset that the Muslim Afghan jehad is not a political problem or national war but a war of belief, a war ' between right; and wrong. Therefore, .as long as wrong does notsurrender to right, this war- shall continue. This very jehad will determine the, fate of the Muslim Afghans and their case shall be won in • bunkers.
                         23
 k     EDITORIAL:  "The mujaheddin delegation
       visit to Russia: injustice to jehad and Islamic revolution". After discussing a number of issues, the editorial concludes:  As far holding talks with
       the Russians are concerned, our mujahed nation is not averse to talking with the Russians but’ these talks have certain conditions. As long as these conditions are not fulfilled,, talks will be considered a negation' of the aspirations of the great objectives of jehad and Islamic revolution and by no means the nation will be ready for it.
            In the first place, as long as the Russians do not stop siding with the Kabul regime completely, the question of talking with them does not arise. Secondly, the talks should be held in a third country not Russia itself.' Because meeting the enemy in his home is not befitting, of the mujaheddin legally and traditionally. Similarly, prior to every thing else, the Russians must recognize the mujaheddin as the real representatives of the Afghan *      mujahed nation and stop their meddling
       in Afghanistan completely.            ;
            But so far ho condition has been fulfilled; neither support to Soviet puppet regime is stopped nor interference has ended. Then how is it ,jy-   possible that mujaheddin sit together
       with them around, the negotiating table and that also, in their own country?
      We are, sure of our final victory through armed jehad. We reject compromise with the enemies of our religion and homeland and consider it a great injustice to our invaluable Islamic revolution aspirations.
                                                     30
 EDITpRIAL:  "Offices vs.   trenches in
 regard to the mujaheddin delegation's trip to Russia". The editorial discusses the issue of holding talks between the mujaheddin and Russians and refers to the differenced among the mujaheddin in regard to this issue. It says, "some jehad organizations, have committed themselves now to going to Russia and have taken this position due to several reasons. One has to see whether they are going to fulfill their commitments or whether they will be able to work out in a joint agenda for these talks?
 It has also to be seen whether the mujaheddinvwill agree to the leader of one mujaheddin organization to lead the delegation and what are to be the level of other members of -the delegation? What will the Russians demand from the mujaheddin and what will the mujaheddin demand from the Russians. These are all - questions which could be answered in due course of time .        •
      "At present, in regard fo talks with the Russians, we attach greater value to the decisions of those who are holding the trenches than the decision / of those who are working only in the mujaheddin offices and until the Russians stop their support of their atheist puppets and consider the
 F  t'   # •• -     *           /  , .  ' •
 mujaheddin as the true representatives of the nation, we consider as untimely talks being held on behalf of the mujaheddin in regard to the Afghanistan issue and condemn   such•talks and
 consider if contrary to the spirit of our Islamic revolution."
 ■% _
                                                                                    152
                                                  'i
         ‘ ' / • ,

OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991- AIGUAN AHAII
                                                             NOVEMBER
                6
 REPORT: The newspaper, quoting Mawlawi
 Jalal^uddin Haqqani about the present fighting in Gardaiz, has said none of the mujaheddin fronts and commanders who have encircled Gardaiz, confront enemy sincerely and seriously and, except the Sato Kandau front, where the mujaheddin have advanced considerably, in other fronts, no important advances have been made. Ih the beginning of the present fighting the Abu Jandal and Jehadwal fronts made advances towards Leos; however they had to evacuate the area again and since then no true and sincere operations have been launched by the mujaheddin. Furthermore, around, the Gardaiz area, including Teera, the commanders have not carried out true and necessary operations and : have failed to break enemy defense lines. In the Srori front the Hazrat-e-Farooq Brigade and some other fronts carried some rounds of operations. However, the mujaheddin have advanced considerably towards Sato. Kandau and have been able
 to break the enemy defense line.
     He says although the mujaheddin organizations and their Commanders' obtained assistance and military supplies for conducting the Gardaiz operations and during the initial stages they were exerting good efforts and despite the ;fact that we were urging them to cooperate in these operations, they rushed into the battle without real planning and because of this, no serious and coordinated attacks .were launched and also the mujaheddin spent major part of their supplies for operation of enemy military posts instead of launching attacks on Gardaiz
     Mawlawi Haqqani said, as you can see for yourself , pur operations are. continuing successfully despite such,
VOL- 5 NO. 1
 difficulties. The enemy is bringing fresh units and forces from Kabul and the Rashid Dostum arid Glam Jam mail tias have been shamefully defeated. They had taken the responsibility of blocking the Teera route so the mujaheddin may not advance. However, they were unable to do so and we are^ sure of our success. We have complete' artillery on all sides of Gardaiz? we have aiso tanks and at present are undertaking organized military activities. Gardaiz will be conquered, only the war will become a little longer.
                20
 INTERVIEW: The famous commander Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, in regard to the need for a unified leadership has said to the correspondent , of De’Jehad Hindara bringing about - a unified ' leadership among these leaders is impossible, because they have devided the political power among themselves and then each one of them tries to bring his own men into the picture and make them leaders. This whole trend is contradictory. Some want war and some want negotiation. They should select-6nly One. way. If they want' to choose the alternative of war, they should have said that we will fight until we assume power and if they choose the .negotiations alternative, they should have joined the others and shared with them the power and should have been satisfied with whatever/power given to them. , But they want to individually assume power through negotiations and on snch basis it will not be possible to evolve a united leadership.
      He said it would be better for the Commanders’ Council to meet once more and create a representative council, in which Muslim people from all elements of the Afghan society should be included, people who have not acted against the jehad but have more or less cooperated with it. This representative
153
 <
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
*« council should reach a decision in regard to a singular leadership and the Commanders' Council should watch the activities of the reprsentative council .
                 27
  INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Nizamuddin ■' Haqqani
  in an interview with the radio "Voice of Mujahed" has said the Russians and Americans want a government in Afghanistan which should deal with the infi-idels as an infidels' government and with Muslims as a Muslim government.
      He has said, in a Muslim country where the Muslim live in accordance with Islamic principles, there will be no problems. The religious scholars will sit together and delegate the. power , to the single person in. acordance with Islamic traditions. He said the jehad commanders should sit together after the fall of the Najib government and form a government and this government should; have a revolutionary council to take care of issue’s of law and security. After , that, it should convene the religious scholars who should in turn elect the leader of the government. If the jehad commanders do not take care of law and security, no government will be able to ,maintain it.
                                                              DECEMBER
                  4
  !INTERVIEW:Sayyed Anwar Agh.a, 'Director General of the radio "Mujahed Voice" in * an interview with the correspondent of the De'Jehad Hindara has said, the Voice of Mujahed, radio has had an effective role in operations launched for the liberation of Khost and it is also now playing an important role in • the successful operation launched for {£) liberating Gardaiz.
      He said the radio*. programs start
 with the recitation of the Holy Quran, and reading of Quranic commentaries. The radio broadcast^ religious articles, news in, Pashtu and Dari, political commentaries, talks about the behaviour of the enemy, answer to letters, "open , talk by our friends", Quranic verses and saying of' Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, short stories, poetry and jehadic chorus, exerpts from the media about the Afghan jehad, news and reports and a review of weiekly events.
      He said, the radio starts broadcasting from 6:30    a:.m.   until ,8:30
 a.m. and then from 6:15 p.m..until 8:15 p. m.                              .
                                                      11
 INTERVIEW:  Mawlawi  Jalaluddin  Haqqani
 in an interview 5 December with the radio Voice of Mujahed was reminded of a statement by the UN’Secretary General's envoy Benon Sevan that if in Afghanistan a mujaheddin government came to power and stood against the UN 5-point plan, that government will hav.a no legality. Haqqani said, we considered such a statement by Sevan completely baseless. Because a legal government is one which is formed in accordance with the .principles set forth by God and the Prophet. '! If a government is formed within this -framework, it is going to be a legal government. However, whatever is termed as illegal by the United / Nations will not be necessarily the same , to us. We have* launched our jehad for the Sake of Almighty God and have never conducted it on the basis' of the legality of the UN mission ...They should not dream that in Afghanistan elections will take place under , the UN supervision. We say we did not accept the . intervention of Soviet empire and, God willing, the UN soldiers also will not enter Afghanistan and if it did so, they will follow the Gorbachev's exmaple. We will consider this a military intervention and not a humanitarian gesture.                 ; -
                                 4 .'   i •
154                              “
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
   Kausar-I
                                           SEPTEMBER
           21
NEWS ITEMS: In regard to a decree is-,
sued by Najib. President of the Kabul puppet regime, re-granting citizenship rights to ex-king Zaher Shah of ‘Afghanistan and other 10 members of his family , Sardar Wall, Son-in-law ahd ’ representative of the ex-King, in an interview to BBC said, from the very outset of April coup, we have not recognized any of the illegal governments which have been formed in Afgha-r nistan nor, for that matter, their rules , and regulations had any credibility for us. We have always been Afghan nationals and shall remain so in future too. .
* In his efforts to attract Western support, Majib,the Kabul puppet regime President, in art interview with The Washington' Post, has observed, the US should contain Muslim fundamentalism decisively from seizing power because if Islamic fundamentalists', particularly Hekmatyar, seize power, the plan based on solidarity of Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan will materialize, which may prdve disastrous t6 US. and Israel in the region . In case the plan of Muslim fundamentalists is materialized, Pakistan nuclear energies, will, undoubtedly, be placed at the disposal of Afghanistan and Iran as well. Presently, with changes in the Soviet Union, there is no communism and the US and the Soviet Union are no more rivals; \ so they must jointly try to exterminate the roots of Islamic fundamentalism. He has asked the US to invite ex-King Zaher Shah, who, according to Najib, is of a mpderate temperament, to help solve the Afghanistan problem. The paper writes, that Najib believes that Muslim
                                                                                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
 fundamentalists will be isolated.
 *    Douglas Stafford,, the Deputy UN High Commissioner for refugees, in a statement in a refugee* camp near Akora' Khattak observed, the UN High Commission for refugees will continue
■ its assitance to the,Afghans as long as the present situation in Afghanistan prevails..
 *   A communique issued from Saudi.
1 Arabian Embassy in Islamabad has
 criticized p.azi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI of Pakistan, for his statement .implying that Saudi Arabia, instead of assisting the mujaheddin, is actually helping the Kabul regime.-The communique says that Saudi Arabia does not support the Najib regime, nob only that,but from the very outlet of jehad,
 has been helping the mujaheddin and shall continue helping them till their victory.
                  22
 NEWS ITEMS:    pegarding the meeting
 between Akram Zaki, the Secretary General of Pakistan Foreign- Ministry,, and Douglas Hurd, British Foreign. Secretary, Iftikhar Ahmed Chaudary, a Pakistani correspondent, has said, "Zaki told Hurd that Pakistan wants to solve the Afghanistan problem through help and cooperation of. Saudi Arabia taking into consideration the UN 5-point plan".
 *   Mohammed Amin Ferotan* Editor of Kausar:and HEIA (Mansoor) Deputy Chief, while on his way to home 22 September was attacked brutally by barbarians and sold out vto .terrorists about 3: 30 p..m. He was attacked after he had participated in a meeting of the 28-member commission set up by the mujaheddin to work, out a solution formula for the Afghan issue. As a result of this dastardly attack, Ferotan and his guard were seriously injured but, by the
                                                            OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 HllillAN
 * Grace of God. Almighty, the nefarious designs of the enemy could not succeed and by now, he is well on the road to recovery and, God willing will, once more, serve the cause of Afghan mujaheddin with his Writings,
     * All jehad organizations of Peshawar declared in a meeting that all the employees, soldiers, police and militia of the Kabul regime will be pardoned on the Condition that they refrain from cooperation with the puppet regime and report to the nearest mujaheddin , centers. In the context of this declaration, the entire mujaheddin commanders inside Afghanistan are ordered to protect the. life and property of Kabul regime personnel and their family members assuring them of peace and security, in case they contact the mujaheddin .•
                      28
     NEWS ITEMS:  From the interviews and
     statements of the puppet regime leaders it is gathered that they are devoid of truth completely because, on the one hand, Najib, the chief of puppet regime says that in the process of resolving the Afghan issue, he is not willing to leave his post. For the interest of peace, however, On the other hand, Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, the puppet regime Prime Minister, says that Najib * s dissociation from the. isSue can be discussed. The leader of the puppet regime has observed: Let us leave aside the issues of legitimacy, no. one should be exempted. We Afghans demonstrated that we are good warriors and now we *. should demonstrate th^t we ard good negotiators, as well. ,
                                                       Ex-King Zaher Shah in response to a proposal . by „ Najib that he should participate in the formation of a government of national unity, has said, jp at no stage, distribution of power is to be discussed. What is needed at this stage is to find a political
 [KAO .              VOL.  5 NO.  1
 solution and restore peace based on the creation of a government elected by the people, respect of the right of self-determination and democratic norms where people can, through mutual understanding and beneficial counsels free from outside meddling or pressure, endowed with freedom, independence Islamic identity, sovereignty and territorial integrity, strengthen the future edifice of the country.
                                    OCTOBER
                                            2
 NEWS ITEMS: Siddique Kanju, Minister of State in the Pakistan Foreign Office, has said in the UN General Assembly, recent regional developments have paved the way for the solution of the Afghan problem. He added, "Pakistan has always advocated . an honorable political solution to the Afghanistan problem".
 * In a press Conference, Najib has said the mujaheddin and other opposition forces to his regime will be, allowed to , carry electoral activities in the regime controlled areas provided the opposition acts likewise.
 * The former King, of Afghani Sikh:, Zaher Shah, has told the BBC, under*‘the current Critical and sensitive situation# every Afghan, particularly our mujahed brethren are dutybouttd to
 * sink their differences for the sake of realization of peach and tranquility in Afghanistan.
 * Prof. Sebghatullah Mujadded!, leader of Afghan delegation, met with Soviet Foreign Minister in New York, TASS • reported. The. talks focused on the release of Soviet war prisoners held by the mujaheddin , and the Soviet request for a complete list of soviet prisoners...
 * Six weeks ago, the government / of Pakistan told the workers of all
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
111
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 foreign humanitarian institutions not to 'go inside Afghanistan.
        ■ ■■■■'5;
 NEWS ITEMS:. Mujaheddin, sources* quoting Reuter news agency, say the Soviet side has declared that itr" will no longer. supportNajib. The dec 1 aration was made by Soviet Foreign/kinister Boris Pankin during his talks With Sebghatuliah Mujaddedi, the President of AIG.
 * Commenting on Bris Pankin, Soviet Foreign Minister’s proposals to the. mujaheddin delegation in New York, Professor Sayyaf has observed, Pankin has made tw6 proposals, the first being that an interim government headed by Ex-King Zaher Shah be established in
 •Kabul and, secondly, an interim coalition government, headed by one of seven party leaders and with Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, the present Kabul puppet regime Premier, as prime minister be formed. He said, no political privilege whatsoever will ( be conferred on the Russians and their comrades.
 * * Professor Asghar, the Head of
 Afghan National Salvation Society, in an interview with the "Weekly News" in Kabul, has said, the impact of recent changes (stet) is very great. First of all, it is a great lgsson for those Afghan Communists who had ‘ not learnt from more than 13 years jehad of the Afghan nation with communism. It must have certainly dawned- upon them that when blood thirsty -with horror USSR dictatorship of 74 years could not hold the communists in powef, there will absolutely be no room for Communism in the Muslim mujahed country of Afghanistan . '         '    ,•
                  9       .
             •    ft
 NEWS ITEMS: HEIA beaded by MawlaWi
 Nasrullah Mansoor has declared th&Jt he is not. . prepared to form a coalition government with the puppet regime.
     Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, the puppet Kabul regime Premier has said, representative's of both combatant* sides in the Afghan war and the King Zaher Shah will soon attend a UN supervised meeting, adding that most probably the talks' will prove a major1 step in promoting efforts towards ending the 13 year old war in Afghanistan.
      He said, Perez de Cuellar, the UN Secretary General:, may preside over the talks.
 - > .   v     ~      ■
 *  To a question regarding the nature Of mujaheddin’s talks, in Moscow and the composition of the delegation, Zabiul-lah Mujaddedi,, in a radio interview, said, the agenda for Moscow talks will be When the Afghan delegation return from New York to Peshawar and the delegation to Moscow ‘will be . led by Sebghatuliah Mujaddedi.
 *  Perez . de Cuellar, the UN Secretary General has reiterated his proposal to convene a meeting of all the hostile parties in the Afghanistan war. ’In a statement, he said, the Afghanistan problem should eventually be solved , by the Afghans themselves. He said, in case: the Afghans accept it, he will be ready to host the meeting.
 .NEWS ITEMS:  The Independent (Britain)
 daily has written: Notwithstanding the US and Soviet decision in regard to the weaponry cut-off to the combatants in the Afghanistan., war, the situation inside the' country remains undefined       *
 And it is not known which of the political wings will win.
                                    Similarly The New York Times,
 quoting, an Afghan student, wrote: Elements responsible for continuity of
                       are the USA and.      ^
                      hopeful that peace next spring but no
   war in Afghanistan USSR. Now they are will be restored by
.157 ■        .  '.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991     A1GIIAN J(UA11                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
one knows, for sure, whether it will intensified her , assistance to the materialize or not?                  puppet regime.
     * Reports received'; from Gardaiz '    indicate that, due to severe . bombard-
   . ment by the puppet regime forces,- a large number of people in Gardaiz area have been wounded. According to; eyewitnesses accounts, the puppet reigime airforce have used napalm bombs against mujaheddin in Gardaiz and have been firing Russian made SCUD missiles on mujaheddin bases. In order to forestall the mujaheddin assaults on Gardaiz and defend themselves against their attack, the Kabul puppet regime is resorting to these attacks. Informed sources have indicated that around 65 bodies of mujaheddin have been found 8 October in Ghilji, ,south of Gardaiz.
                        16
     NfiWS ITEMS: In an exclusive interview,
 , to AP news agency, AIG President Sebghatullah .Mujaddedi observed, "I am fed up with Pakistan interference, in mujaheddin affairs and would soon leave for Afghanistan". . He added, that Pakistanis interference was vary insulting to him. He did not elaborate. The Agency quoting him says that his efforts towards discussing a peaceful solution were marred by the Pakistan military intelligence. But Pakistan quarters have made no Comments so far on the subject.
     * In the aftermath of the abortive coup and the recent changes in the Soviet Union, Soviet warning of aid-cut.
 * off, obliged the Kabul regime to tap . other evenues for aid to the country. In this connection, India and Turkey may be mentiond. Following the Soviet Union, India , is t:he second country which has over the years been not only providing the Kabul puppet regime with economic and military, aid, and at the ' international level • supported her stances and positions, but lately has
 /*" -
 *  The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, who •
 after consultations with his country's administration, has returned to Kabul, in a press conference, urged immediate talks between the. mujaheddin and Kabul puppet regime to solve the Afghan problem.                        ,
                  19
 *  Dr. Anwarul Haq Ahadi in an article published in Christian Science Monitor (USA) has insisted on a transitory period of government in Afghanistan and writes, from my point of view, it is ' important that a quick decision be-taken in regard to the nature of
•transitional changes and efforts towards a perfect compromize ushering { peace. The removal of obstacles^ undoubtedly, will help, in the realization of optimists' hopes; otherwise confusion will prevail and the promotion of rivalry on account of Afghanistan (at the cost of Afghanistan) will materialize the.worst kind of scenario.
 *  Professor Sayyaf, the 'Prime Minister of AIG and leader of IIA, while rejecting a dialogue with the Russians observed, "in case the Russians.want to talk to mujaheddin then, instead of the Kabul puppet regime, they should recognize the AIG and afterwards we shall be ready to discuss bilateral issues and war reparations with them." ",
 *  Professor Ghausi, a former senior
 professor of. Kabul University, in, an interview, observed:     A Government
 capable of promoting v national assignments . ought to be endowed with the qualities of sacrificing personal interest for national interests, solidarity with religions^ and ethnic groups and compromise and understanding with parties and minorities; etc.
158
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
 VOL., 5 NO. 1
     He said, it is likely US-Pakistan relationship may further' weaken as a result of which Pakistan may play a more active role in the affairs of Afghanistan. This might in a way, prove detrimental to the creation of a united powerful government in Afghanistan.
                  23
 NEWS ITEMS: Perez de Cuellar, the UN Secretary General, in a report to the General Assembly, observed: He has been assured that in case of the Settlement of some. important issues of the Afghanistan problem# some controversial figures will not press for. their involvement in the inter-Afghan parleys or in the interim government. He also called for a break in fighting and in, order to create confidence, the Afghans must take steps aimed at speeding up the peace process,
 * Nadia Yunus, spokeswoman of UN Secretary General# reported that the draft resolution of the next session of 166 UN members regarding the political solution to the Afghanistan problem is prepared by Pakistan in consultation with the Soviet Onion which will be approved by the assembly. The draft resolution supports the Secretary General's 5-point plan for. Afghanistan.
 * The Washington Post of the us
 writes; the super powers ought to leave the Afghans alone and they will soon attain their objectives and wishes,
 * Afsal Khan# leader of HAP1 (Hezb-e-
 Awami ^Pashtunkhwa) has said: Pakistan
 intends to perpetuate her hegemony on Afghanistan through the ISI but the consequences will be unpleasent because it would . not serve the cause of Pakistan either.
 NEWS ITEMS:   A  German   newspaper  in
 Frankfurt has recently written: It
 appears that Moscow is ready to drop down Najib, if the mujaheddin refrain from instigating unrest among the people of Soviet Islamic republics. Boris Yeltsin, the President of Russian Federation, has assumed an important role by telling Boris pankin,the Soviet Foreign ^Minister, to make a deal with some moderate political figures of the mujaheddin. The deal proposed by the Soviet Foreign Minister could pave the way for the convening of a peace conference under the chairmanship of UN Secretary General which might be held in Geneva or some other place.
 * The Pakistan Prime Minister, Muhammad Nawaz Sharif, in a meeting 24 October with mujaheddin leaders said the international situation for lasting peace and security in Afghanistan is extremely, favorable. In the talks it was decided that an authoritative mujaheddin delegation should go to Moscow in the beginning of November for talks with Soviet authorities.
 ♦Prince Tarkey, special envoy of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia to Pakistan, has hoped that the Afghan problem will be solved in the near future.
                               NOVEMBER
                                      2 1
 NEWS ITEMS: Saudi ,Arabia has declared
 it Will offer new assistance, for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Knowledgeable sources report that King Fahd of Saudi Arabia has promised a project for the reconstruction of Afghanistan which will be named after him. He has pledged $ 40 million for the prelimina-ary stage of the project. In addition to that, the Saudi ambassador presented a cheque of $ 6 million to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG. President, ushering a new phase in relations between Saudi Arabia and mujaheddin.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 * Professor A^ghar, leader of a JRMA in an interview with western media observed:  We consider the UN proposal
 useful and constructive -, but regarding the inter-Afghan dialogue for the time being, there are bottlenecks and difficulties. The biggest problem is that not only the mujaheddin but the people of Afghanistan as a whole, consider the Khalq party, presently called the Watan Party, the basic element to the tragedy of Afghanistan. Therefore, to talk with such a party is impossible and is not. acceptable to mujaheddin and the majority of the Afghan people.
                      6
m
 NEWS ITEMS:   Mawlawi Mohammad Younus
 Khales, the leader of HIAi while talking to the correspondent of VOA, criticized a Pakistani official for saying the Afghan mujaheddin parties opposed to the political solution of the Afghanistan problem may be ignored in a broad-based government. A press statement of Pakistan Foreign Office indicates that all sides involved in the Afghan case support the UN Secretary General peace plan and the US, Soviet, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan too support it.
 * A political organization.* called the Movement of Unity, Democracy and Freedom of. Afghanistan patronized by the puppet regime comprizing mostly the poets and writers of the regime's Union of Writers was hurriedly announced in a press session in Hotel-e-Sitara of Kabul 29 August. This organization is a funny hotch-potph and comprised of Khalqi, Parchami, Shulaee, nationalists and a number Of disgruntled communists headed by Mohammed Azam Rahnaward Zaryab, a hard liner opponent’ of Pashtuns and the President of Writers' Union. The organization started its political assignment with a declaration signed by 14 founding members. Recent reports indicate that the, organization after a Shortwhile and less than one
month, split and its five founding members in a press statement, published in Kabul dailies, announced 7 October their separation from the movement.
* Ahmad Shah Masood, the President of Supervisory Council of JIA, while talking with Reuter correspondent observed that he was ready to continue the talks with a view to find a peaceful solution for ending the war in Afghanistan but they will not be held under Pakistan or UN conditions. Masood reiterated that there is no room for the communists and they cannot remain in government ranks.
                      9
NEWS ITEMS:      Professor Burhenuddin
Rabbani, the leader of Moscow going mujaheddin delegation, in an exclusive interview with the Kausar, observed: The mujaheddin accepted the Russian invitation after a ■ series . of preparations so the composition of the delegation may be approved by the majority of mujaheddin. Our discussions will be focused on a number of issues with priority to ending the policy of terrorism, suppression and oppression of the communist; regime whose remnants can be seen even today in the features of the puppet regime, which helped the invasion of Afghanistan with Russian tanks, SCUD missiles and other sophisticated Soviet weaponry. We demand that, with the ouster of the puppet regime from Afghanistan, the last vista of Soviet aggression in Afghanistan come to an end. I opine that there are no differences among mujaheddin in regard to discussions with Russians as far as basics and principles are concerned.
* A German newspaper regarding the Soviet policy on the Afghanistan issue writes, a . Soviet Foreign Office Director, opines that forcing Najib out of poWer will be deceptive because, according to him, even with this, peace
 160
■\ j
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   fllllllllN
 will not be maintained in Afghanistan and confrontation among mujaheddin to gain power in Kabul may continue.
 NEWS ITEMS:   A US aircraft, carrying
 humanitarian assistance to the refugees in Pakistan landed in ’Islamabad. This is the 100th flight bringing Such assistance. Congressman Bill MocCollum, member of the US House of Representatives from the State of Florida, who has planned this program is hopeful the program will continue in future also.
 *  Ahmad Shah Masood, the President of JIA Supervisory .Council, in an interview with the BBC has said, as long as basic problems remain unsolved, sheer weaponry cut-off cannot stop fighting in Afghanistan. Although mujaheddin have accepted a third party to acquire power but there are no encouraging signs from Russians and Kabul regime for the solution of the Afghan problem.
 *  In the joint declaration of the Mujaheddin delegation and Soviet officials, the sending of troops to Afghanistan was condemned. Both sides agreed on the necessity of power transfer to an Islamic transitory government , in Afghanistan. Mujaheddin vowed that after the years of power transfer to an interim government, elections will be held. The fate of agreements signed between the puppet regime and the Soviet since 1978 will be decided by the interim government. Soviet prisoners of war will, be released and Russia will participate in reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 *  In an interview with the Western media, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani observed, the regime that has been imposed on our nation through Soviet tanks must be wound up by the Soviets themselves-. The establishment of the
- *+
 tllliu                  VOL.   5 NO.  1
 future government in Afghanistan, elections, the system and conditions to be adopted for future leadership, all, will be up to the people of Afghanistan to decide.
 *  AFP reports that a demonstration of pro-Zaher Shah elements was held in Kabul against the Kabul puppet Regime 13 November; however, slogan-raising puppet regime supporters chanting against , Zaher Shah encircled the'
 .demonstrators and forced them to flee along with' their posters and banners.
                  13
 NEWS ITEMS:   Ex-King Zaher Shah, after
 treatment of stab injuries, left the hospital. The Ex-Kj.ng of Afghanistan was attacked joy an assailant identifying himself as a correspondent. Zaher Shah said that now he was all the more determined to return to his homeland to serve the people.
 *  Representatives of several jehad organizations are in Moscow for talks to end the 13-year oldkwar in Afghanistan. They called on the fVice-President of Russia, Alexander Rutskoy, who is a former Russian soldier and was arrested by the mujaheddin in the Afghan war but later, managed to escape. Rutskoy welcomed the mujaheddin desire to solve the Afghanistan conflict.
 *  Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris
 Pankin, rejected mujaheddin's demand urging Moscow to pressure Najib to step down. The Soviet Foreign Minister said that the Soviet Union interfered in the Afghan affairs once and "we burnt our fingers', so we do not want to interfere again".               .  ’
                  20
 NEWS tTEMS:   In an interview with a
 British correspondent, Najib has said: As far as the leadership issue in Afghanistan is concerned, it is
161
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 IfflllffN JfHAU                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 entirely up to the Afghans to decide since they are legally entitled to do so. When the people, of Afghanistan, in general elections, cast their votes, we Ure bound to obey the results 6f such polls, and the same ought to be acceptable to the other sides. He said, in case the people of Afghanistan ask for; his ouster, he will quit.
 .* Hujjat-ul-Islam Rehmatullah .Murta-’ zavi, HWIA spokesman, in a press interview said, the visit of mujaheddin delegation to Moscow was positive and successful. He said; we had discussions with the representativces of most of the republics in Moscow, e.g. Tadjikistan, Uzbekistan and some other republics including the Russian Federation regarding the issue. We asked them for coordination among themselves in regard to the Afghanistan problem and they informed' the mujaheddin . about their collective views; and this joint declaration, is the outcome of -their solidarity and harmony over the issue.
 * Akram Zaki,. Secretary General of
 Pakistan Foreign i Office, said:   The
 Kabul regime days are numbered, now. In his opinion the mujaheddin delegation visit to Moscpw waS effective and ushers a favorable view to the advancement of the Afghanistan problem in the coming days.
 * Sebghatullah Mujaddedi pertaining to the talks between the mujaheddin and the Soviet administration sgid: Relatively speaking, it was a positive step towards solving the Afghanistan problem. In other words, the Russians have changed, to certain extent, their diplomacy and I, am hopeful that the talks will result in the complete freedom of Afghanistan; so that a government of the Muslim Afghans’ choice is established , in Afghanistan.
                                                 23
 NEWS ITEMS: Soviet officials say that
                                                                                                   . 162
their government is speeding the process of pulling out their military experts from the iwar-battered country of Afghanistan. They told AFP in Kabul that recalling of 300 military experts is being ‘ implemented. These experts included those in charge of SCUD rockets operations and the training of puppet regime personnel in firing of these rockets.
*   A report issued 29 May, 19.91 by the UN working system and accounts departments about Afghanistan indicates that millions of dollars were misplaced, due to the defective management,, connivance over the informations of decisions and unnecessary expenses. According to the news reports, the report, kept secret for six months, indicates $ two million worth of French aid is missing from the ac-counts and besides purchased commodities worth over $ two million are not entered too and around $. two million from the UN food program are missing.
*   Daily Die Zeit of Germany writes: Afghanistan is the largest mine-planted land in the world and no one knows the number of mines planted in the ground. They may number five millions or 50 or 20 millions. No farmer can be sure that there is no mine in his field *
*   Aircraft. of Islamic Republic of Iran Air force have started airlifting relief goods to thousands of Afghans faced with famine and ’-drought conditions in the central areas of. Afghanistan. UN officials say thait Kabul .regime has authorized Iran to. airlift,in a number of sorties, wheat, flour and clothes to Afghanistan e).hd drop them from the air to the people of Afghanistan., Since several months, Iran was interested in flights to the , central areas but the puppet regime had insisted that the assistance should be made through Kabul.
                                                                                       SHAH. UL BOOK CT\
                 P.O. Box 1328, Kabul,Afghanis if: l Chahrahi Saddarat Tel. 25880
 OCTOBER^DECEMBER# 1991
                                                27
 NEWS ITEMS:    Dr. Ravan  Farhadi,   a
 former Afghan diplomat, in an interview with VOA has said:  The^ visit of Afghan
 mujaheddin delegation to Moscow is a significant development and in the jehad history of Afghanistan it is a prominent event as a result of which the mujaheddin and free Afghanistan, in comparison with previous years, are well placed.             , W.
          ' • ' ' \ . ■ .
 * There has been an upsurge in diplomatic activities in regard to the solution of the Afghan problem’ in Peshawar. •
 *  Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special envoy, along with Soviet Ambassador arrived in Peshawar 26 November and had talks with Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Rabbani.
 *  Akram Zaki, Secretary. General Pakistan Foreign Office, said in Peshawar: The government of Pakistan is trying to woo the entire mujaheddin organizations in order to accept the political solution to the Afghanistan problem in the light of the joint mujaheddin-Russian declaration.
 *  Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the leader of HI A, talking in Jehad University said> as long as the Afghan problem is not solved totaly, not a single Soviet war prisoner should be released. He said, the Afghan problem can be solved when the Najib puppet regime is toppled unconditionally and is transferred to an interim government in which the ex-King Zaher Shah and Najib'S supporters are not included and. after the transfer of power to the interim government, cease-fire is implemented.
                                                30
 NEWS ITEMS:  Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani,
 in an interview with western media#
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 observed that he had told the Soviet Ambassador parleys between the Afghans and Soviet were a good thing and as far as the joint statement implies, useful and positive steps have been taken and I am hopeful that these talks will continue in future also and the pledges made will be implemented and we establish an Islamic government acceptable to the majority of the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
 *  Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary
 General special envoy, has said, political solution is the only way for ending the    Afghan   problem. He said
 the UN responsibility and role in regard to the Afghanistan issue is confined only to paving the way for meetings and , parleys among all the combatent     sides.    Regarding    the
 Afghanistan problem, the ; greatest responsibility of all is to end and eliminate mujaheddin differences.     As
 long as these differences persist, the solution to the problem will remain impossible.     He     added, war     in
 Afghanistan is fought for restoration of peace; this war is not meant for the parties and different groups to get rid of their grievances. In case the organizations'' differences do not come to an end, it will be impossible to keep Afghanistan all in one piece.
 * Reuter reported that the Akhbarre-Hafta was published by Abdullah Bashir Shore and apparently was an independent publication but in fact it was financed by the Kabul regime and enjoyed special security arrangements. The Akhbar-e-Hafta started, in 1988 ,and represented the views of the puppet Watan Party democratic wing 1 and discussed the problems with a critical analysis and published later items of ihujaheddin organizations and commanders. Western Kabul-based diplomats have described the suspension of the Weekly a success for the.Watan Party extremists.
 *  Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, a former
 Moscow was unnecessary, adding tljat as far as the text of Moscow joint communique, as issued in Pakistan, indicates, it is not serving any useful and new purpose for Afghanistan.
 * Abdul Sattar Seerat, an Afghan former diplomat , (ste.t) has said: In
 the forthcoming talks with the Russians the subject of' war reparations ought to be clarified and implemented.
                                                       DECEMBER
 NEWS ITEMS:   A Moscow news agency says
 that the Soviet Onion is cutting down the number of her diplomats in Kabul. Similarly the Soviets have recalled a good number of their military advisers who helped the Kabul regime.
 *  Zeitung daily of Swiss writes:    The
 mujaheddin commanders are npt ready tp release, their war prisoners easily.
 *   Mujaheddin leaders met President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Premier Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan and had discussions with them. The President of Pakistan palled the joint! communique between the mujaheddin delegation and the Soviet administration a positive, step towards the political solution of the Afghan problem. While recalling regional and international changes* he impressed on the mujaheddin'to avail of the . opportunity for the political settlement of the Afghan ! issue. Mujahteddin leaders assured him of accellerating their efforts* with UN and 01C cooperation, for the just political solution of the Afghanistan problem. In this connection, the; mujaheddin leaders have agreed to create a "Leadership Council"! comprizing leader? of the entire jehad organizations based in Peshawar and
 Tehran; At a later stage one person from the Leadership Council will be selected as the President. The Council will supervise directly the entire process of state and government affairs during the interime period. Ah interim government', under the supervision, ofc the "Leadership Council" of jehad organizations      will     also     be
..established. The jehad leaders will not hold governmental posts. This will be a temporary period.after which, according to the UN plan and the joint mujaheddin~Soviet declaration, power should be transferred to an elected government. The' maximum tenure of the interim government'will be one year and will pave the way for elections during this period.
      Richard ^Wilson, an American correspondent says: Pakistan wants that the Pashtunistan issue may npt be raised again and the future government in Afghanistan ought to assure Pakistan in this regard, since even now Pakistan is concerned about parochial and ethnic movements • in the country and •Pakistanis, by no means, want that another anxiety is created for them.
 NEWS ITEMS: Sebghatuilah Mujaddedi, the AIG President,      has   said ; in   an
 interview, "according to my experience, the Leadership Council is not going to work out properly and will create' some problems". When asked why did the leaders agree to the Council when he was not optimistic about it, he Said, "my posit ion required of me not to disagree, otherwise they would have thought I was fearing to loose my position as President of the AIG".
 .* The AFP reports that the Soviet Union has decided to decrease its diplomats and officials in Afghanistan. A senior Soviet diplomat told the AFP. this should not be considered to mean that the Soviet Union Was trying to
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991
IliJll
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 deputy, Premier has said in! an interview the visit of mujaheddin delegation to
 l64
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 IlfflHIlHJlHIlll r              VOL. 5 NO. 1
  fbrsake its friends. He added* . the Soviet presence in Afghanistan < will decrease notably after 1 January, 1992.
  *  The UN General Assembly in its (resolution) on Afghanistan has urged 1 the convening of an international conference on Afghanistan . as soon as possible. The resolution notes that the
 . Afghan issue should be solved according to the will of its people. It also urges creation of conditions to enable ; the five million refugees 'in' Iran and Pakistan to return to their homes in safety.
  •' • v . ■              . .         '
  * A seminar on Afghanistan was opened by the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee in Islamabad 5 December. A Norwegian Embassy official, while pointing to the present situation in Afghanistan, in an opening speech said, though the 12-year war was nearing its end, tens of millions of mines were still hidden in the earth, 40% of the agriculture and 2,000 schools .were destroyed. He said, everyone was hoping £>eace would soon be established in Afghanistan and enable the refugees to return home, but prior to that we must all join hands and rebuild the devastated country, he said.
                                                   It
  NEWS ITEMS: Akram Zaki, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of .Pakistan* has . said a process of negotiation has started and it is hoped that all mujaheddin organizations will participate in it. He said, he has not succeeded to obtain agreement from Prof. 1 Sayyaf (11A) and Mawlawi KhaleS (HtA) for attending the, talks on the political settlement of the . Afghan problem but he hoped that Gulbuddin fiekmatyar, leader of the HIA, would Change his position in this regard.
 - HWIA authorities stated in a press conference, any country or private organization's action to wishing to
extend relief aids to the oppressed and hungry in Afghanistan will not be regarded intervention in the affairs of the country. The statement was made in answer to a question that some mujaheddin organizations had objected to the relief supplies dropped by Iranian planes in the central regions of Afghanistan.
■ ; ■ ■: ’ ' ’■ , . - ■ ■ <'J
  One of the outcomes of the three-day seminar held in a Islamabad by the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan is that no reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan would be possible until peace and security returned to the country. The participants also agreed that the Afghans must, obtain information about the objectives Of international donors for the reconstructions of Afghanistan to prevent possible foreigners intervention or influence.
*, Apart from leaders ' of IIA, HIA (Khales) , and HWIA, other leaders of mujaheddin organizations decided in Islamabad , on the formation of a
Leadership Council last week.
                                                • 1 . ’ * . •
* The Afghan employees of Saudi Arabia Red Crescent clinics have gone 'on strike. Dr. Abdul Qudus, a senior employee, said that the Saudi Arabian officials were assisting groups of their own choice and not those who really deserved the job. He said they’ would continue the strike until their demands were met.
Kausar-Il
                                                    SEPTEMBER
                                   21
NEWS ITEMS:   According to news reports,
a delegation of Kabul puppet regime headed by Abdul Wakil, Foreign Minister of the regime, has left for New York to
165
 \
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 participate in the annual UN General Assembly sesssions. Commentators, while discussing the Kabul regime delegate’s visit to UN this year, have remarked that Kabul regime has many expectations regarding the political settlement from this session which is based on the UN and some other countries, efforts directed towards finding a political solution to the Afghanistan problem. That is why the Kabul regime Foreign Minister, during discussions, observed that he has been given to understand that the US Quarters may contact him in regard to the Afghanistan issue. In case such a meeting does materialize, it will be the first official meeting of US quarters with Kabul puppet regime delegate since 1978 coup and the Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
 *  Mawlawi Khales, the leader of HI A (Khales), in an interview regarding a Russian invitation for the mujaheddin to . visit the Soviet Union, while rejecting the invitation outright, observed that in case of such a visit to Moscow by1 the mujaheddin, it may be possible that treaties between the Kabul regime and Russia would be recognized. Mawlawi Khales is among those jehad leaders whose decisions, on many occasions, particularly and mostly differ-with the rest of jehad leaders.
 * Following a Russian invitation to
 jehad leaders to visit Moscow to discuss the Afghanistan issue including the issue of exchange of POWs, four mujaheddin groups have welcomed it and Sebghatullah Mujaheddi said in an interview that the delegation will be led by Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and the members will belong to the lower ranks of jehad forces. He, however, added that so far. the mujaheddin have not worked out     the ; program and the
 details are yet to be decided. However, political observers opine that, , owing to party differences and absence of a joint plan, the visit will be fruitless and may harm the jehad cause.
 * The Pakistani newspaper, The Frottr tier Post, has called the US cut-off of armaments to mujaheddin ineffective on the following grounds: During 12 years, mujaheddin were able to set armaments factories inside the liberated areas and thus became self-sufficient (stet). So far only HIA has been able to set up two factories in the liberated area's, the HIA Deader Hekmatyar has said that HIA decided six years ago to produce its own arms. The source added, Hekmatyar believes that as long as arms self-sufficiency is not attained, no victory can be made against the pressure of external powers. Believing this, he decided to start the arms production, taking advantage of American sources. Later on, some Western countries helped him in this respect. Some personnel from Adah Khel tribal area have also contributed to the establishement of factories. It is reported that Hekmatyar himself has designed a kind of missile by the name of BM-1 and has started developing it in a big way. For its production, however, the design has been sent to the Far East countries since indiginous raw material is not available. The source added, during 12 years, the mujaheddin have stock-piled a large quantity of BM-12, too, which could add up to their self-sufficiency.
                                  OCTOBER
               5
 EDITORIAL: It , considers, (1) the
 abortive Soviet coup as instrumental in fresh changes in the Afghanistan problem, (2) the US-Soviet decision regarding the weaponry cut-off, (3) Soviet Foreign Minister's talks with the mujaheddin about the leadership of one of mujaheddin leaders in Kabul,, and then writes: Political changes in
                                                    Kabul, Moscow and New York indicate that political circumstances pertaining.;. ?to the Afghanistan problem are develo-* ping separately and differently It jM
166
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER; 1991 AlflllflN lllHAI]              VOL.  5 NO. 1
 gathered that separate resolutions regarding stay or ouster of Najib are being ^hatched in those places. However, it is significant that pertaining to the ouster of Najib, differences have sprung up between Kabul and Moscow. This is evident from Moscow's fresh resolution about the ouster of Najib. The Moscow intention is clear from Najib's recent statement and- his indirect reaction to a part of Boris Pankin's remarks. Contrary to Moscow's resolution regarding his ouster, Najib insists on retention of his power. However, the important; point for mujaheddin is that how far they can utilize these differences between Kabul and Moscow to their political advantage. Although long term mujaheddin party differences and political rift's, instead of creating confidence, have widened the credibility gap, wisdom : and common sense can always guide us on the right path, prove a beacon of light and kindle the flame of hope in the minds of our people. The jehad leaders, too, should try to disentangle themselves from groupings and j expansive designs based on broad-based governments and, for the sake of legitimate aspirations of mujaheddin, decide, on common ground in order to prove heart warming/ for the people.
 REPORT:  The Society of Muslim Afghan
 Journalists, while expressing their outrage against the Russian and their puppets' barbaric crimes in the war-torn Afghanistan, demand decisively from the international community and the Afghan mujahed leaders that the following items should be given top priority in their deliberations and meetings with Russian authorities: 1
 1.  The payment of war reparations which the Russians want to cover tip with ambiguous and deceitful terms. The world community, is siding with the
 Afghan people that the Russians are responsible for the massacre of the
 oppressed nation of Afghanistan,• Those
^who have set fire to Afghanistan are responsible for compensation of their crimes and the destruction they have caused. The Russian occupants must once for all stop their support of this communist puppet regime and leave the martyrs-loving people Of Afghanistan to determine their own future.
 2. More than 12,000 pious and God-loving Muslim. Afghans, who have been chained by the Russian occupants and thrown into the communist torture drugeons are iftissing uptill now. There
. is’ evidence that a number of them are leading a.miserable life in the Russian jails and labor camps. These prisoners must be set free forthwith.
 3.   The freedom loving people of Afghanistan can never forget the criminal occupation of Panjdeh, across the Amu river, by the Russian tresspassers. Panjdeh is an organ of the Afghanistan bpdy and, shall remain so. The deceitful promises o’f Lenin to late King* Amanullah saying that if Russian Boldshevik regime, of that period, is recognized, Panjdeh will be restored to Afghanistan, was part , of treacherous intrigues and false promises of the Russian leaders which unfortunately has not materialized so far,. The Society of Muslim Journalists of Afghanistan refers the issue of restoration of Panjdeh to Afghanistan with serious determination to international forums and until the fulfillment of this genuine deisire asks for ail out cooperation from jehad leaders.
      The Society of Muslim Journalists , of Afghanistan, which has been created recently through the active cooperation of seasoned journalists of jehad community, with a view to realization of the sacred jehad objective, will try to carry the rich and effective voice
 OCTOBER-OECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIANJ[UA0                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
meeting of Afghan mujaheddin and
      of the Afghan people and the just call of the valiant arid righteous mujaheddin, from the active trenches of jehad, to the world community arid thus shall be erecting a forceful barrier against the. hollow enemy propaganda, in jehad media.               ; :
                                                 19
      NEWS ITEMS:     HIA leader, Gulbuddin
      Hekmatyar,. in a - statement, while , boycotting the forthcoming talks with the Russians, alleged that jehad organizations lacked a joint plan , to meet the Russian side, therefore> participation in such parleys will not benefit the mujaheddin. The statement adds that besides the problems created' as a result of mujaheddin differences for holding such talks, the latest Moscow, overtures with Kabul regime are also to be noted. He referred to the Russian Ambassador's declaration in Kabul in which the mujaheddin are asked to begin talks with Kabul-: regime, the sooner the better. ’ However the. statement says that in case, the mujaheddin consider a joint plan tor the , talks, participation in them will not be rejected.
      * The Soviet envoy to Kabul emphasized, in a press conference, that the Russians want to bring to an , end the 13-year old war in Afghanistan, adding that this problem should be taken up in a six-partite session comprising Russia, US, Saudi .Arabia, Pakistan and Iran (and the Afghans). The envoy, , who recently Came from Russia:  to Kabul, said that the
 * (proposed) assembly (of six) has been empowered with- greater authority and after their session the Kabul regime must prepare itself for power transfer. He said the participants of 1 the conference - should offer certain guarantees (for the future of Afghanis-' ($ tan).. •     ■  ;
                                                                     He added, in > the near future a
representatives of ex-King Zaher Shah will be convened. This meeting will be patronized by the UN Secretary General himself. He also intimated that prior to" the arrival of spring, an interim government should be formed in Afghanistan. He emphasized the necessity of ending the war prior to' the creation-of the interim government. Regarding * Najib, he said that a decision has been taken about him by the Soviets but he did not .elaborate further. It is worthwhile mentioning that the influential jehad organizations have not so far clarified their position in ' regard to the Geneva proposed parleys.
* Last week the mujaheddin leaders met with Mohammed Nawaz Sharif, Prime Minister of Pakistan. The entire mujaheddin leaders participated in the talks. During the talks, issues related to the departure of a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow-was discussed. The delegation is expected to find a basic solution to the^Afghan problem based on the interest of jehad forces. Some of jehad     leaders,   including     HIA
(Hekmatyar) emphasized, in the meeting, that through a joint decision of jehad forces the Moscow-going mujaheddin, delegation be led by Professor. Rabbani but Mujaheddi insisted that, being the President of AIG, he is entitled to lead the delegation.
                26
REPORT: Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, close allies of Mr. Mujaddedi, refrained to participate in a meeting arranged by Mr. Mujaddedi due to differences which have emerged between them in regard to the formation of the- future interim government . of Afghanistan. Mr. Mujaddedi, aifter his return to Pakistan from > his trip to New York, wanted to report to his allies aout his activities' in New ‘York. However, as Mr. Mujaddedi had vehemently opposed the
168
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   OTGIMHJ[H/1U
  inclusion of Zaher Shah in the future interim government and had accepted Khaliqyar as a neutral and non-communist figure, the two others refused to attend the meeting arranged by Mr. Mujaddedi.'
 -     Mawlawi Mohammadi, the leader of
  the HEIA, and Pir Gailani, leader of NIFA, had formed an alliance with Mr. Mujaddedi for the political solution of Afghanistan and are now engaged in finding ways for the implementation of the 5-point plan proposed by the UN Secretary Genera?..                .
  * The latest plan offered by Najib is that he was ready to step down from his office if the mujaheddin agree to include1 Khaliqyar with Zaher Shah in the future interim government of Afghanistan. Mr. Mujaddedi has accepted Khaliqyar as a neutral person but has rejected any role for; Zaher Shah. This has caused dispute among the three parties.
      : '  • ’ ‘    x   . -          1 _ v-
  * In its editorial, the newspaper has complained about what it calls the
  diffused and disorganized way the mujaheddin have been conducting their
  political activities. It says such "uncoordinated moves will not only
  further cotaplicate the future of our nation and will further pave the way for outside interference in the internal affairs of oUr country, but will have unforeseeable and unwarranted consequences as well".
                                                  28
 NEWS ITEMS:   A conference is to be
 convened in the near future in which representatives of Pakistan, Iran and
 Russian governments along with mujahed-
   -
 din delegates will discuss the political solution of the Afghan problem. The conference is being held in connection
                                                                            you. 5 no. 1
 with UN Secretary General's efforts to discuss the ( UN five point peace, plan. Earlier Saudi Arabia's participation in the conference was not considered but the AIG, after taking a decision, declared that in view of ^audi generous assistance with mujaheddin over the jehad years,, Saudi Arabia must be represented rin the conference. Saudi quarters had also asked, earlier, for their participation in the Conference.
 - Khaliqyar, the Prime Minister of Kabul regime, who had arrived in New Yofk to participate in UN General Assembly, in a press conference intimated the removal of Najib in case of a dialogue.
 - Najib, the chief of Kabul regime, in a '2-hour radio speech, proposed the creation of National unity government.
             '            I,-
 - JIA and HIA are contemplating since long to end their differences and with, that end, they have set teams to work out agreements on all the issues and under present conditions, wheh conspiracies against our nation are at their peak and loyal forces to the Islamic revolution are considering stepping up harmonious operations and military action .against the regime as the only deterrant to the enemy intrigues, they are trying to mobilize their entire resources towards harmony between HIA . and JIA. In order to attain this objective# delegates of both parties recently announced they have ended all their inter-differences and their demands in 12 provinces have been fulfilled.
                                 NOVEMBER
                                       2 /
 NEWS ITEM: Saudi Arabia has announced
 that it has; offered a grant of $ 40 million for reconstruction of Afghan-' istan and $ six million for the salary
 169
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 of teachers working in schools run for the Afghan refugees. The news was released by the Saudi Arabian Ambassador in Islamabad, in a function in which Gh.ulam Ishaq khan President of Pakistan,      Professor     Burhanuddin
 Rabbani, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi were also present. The Ambassador added that the money has been promised by the Saudi Arabian Monarch King Fahd and at the end 'of the functions he gave a check of six million dollars to Mujaddedi.
 * Eng.; Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, answering a journalist hds said that the HIA basically does not oppose holding of talks with the Russians because during the past 13 years the real side, fighting thie mujaheddin were the Russians and no one else. However, the conditions that the Russians have put forward for talks with the mujaheddin, will never be accepted by the HIA.
      The conditions which the HIA put forward for the talks are:
 - Before such talks are to be held with the Russians, the' mujaheddin ought to reach an understanding among themselves and should face the Russians with a solid and joint position.
 -The question; of PGWs should be among the secondary issues of the talk and not the main issue of Af ghan-Russian agenda.
     The venue of talks should be ,determined on the basis of mujaheddin agreement because the Russians until now have not stopped their direct Support of the Kabul communist regime and/ the Russians are the real side fighting us.
    The mujaheddin should become sure that the Russians really want to end the Afghan crisis through holding negotiations with the Muslim Afghan
                                                                                                       170
 nation represented by the .mujaheddin and not by the Americans and other parties who are against the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan.          ■■ <
                                                  9
 NEWS ITEMS:Gulbuddin Hfekmatyar, leader of HIA, in a meeting with a Russian delegation inside Afghanistan has said, the Russians should prove their sincerity that they are truly desirous of solving * the Afghanistan problem through holding talks with the mujaheddin and not Washington.
      The HIA, which has put conditions for its participation in talks with the Russians, has induced the Russians to send a delegation from Russia to further explain the issue and ,urge special negotiations with HIA. v
      Eng. Hekmatyar in answer to a question by a Russian reporter who was part of the Russian delegation, said that in the Afghanistan issue, the two real sides were the Russians and the mujaheddin and it was essential that these two sides should reach. an understanding for solving the problem. He said, the HIA wants direct talks between the Russians and the mujaheddin and in no way wants that talks should be held between the Russians and Americans in regard to the Afghanistan issue.
      He said, "the HIA will never take part in superficial and exhibitionist talks which the Russian want to hold with the mujaheddin. As we are of the opinion that Moscow is still not sincere in holding talks with the mujaheddin, until now the HIA does not have any true expectations from the talks which are scheduled to be held between the mujaheddin delegation and the Russians in Moscow, otherwise the HIA would have sent its delegation. The ftussian leaders want to show to their people through peace talks that
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 they are exerting .efforts for . the release of POWs. But the issue of POWs is a secondary and small matter.
      According to MIDIA, a mujaheddin delegation, led by Prof. Rabbani, left for Mosbow, The delegation, after a short visit in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, arrived in Moscow to hold talks with officials of Soviet Foreign Ministry in regard to Afghanistan. It is being said that the Afghan . delegation might meet Soviet leader Gorbachev and Russian leader Yeltsin.
      Prof. Rabbani, before departure said in an interview, that he will urge the Russians to bring basic change in regard to their policy towards the puppet Kabul regime and stop supporting it. Representatives of HIA (Hekmatyar), IIA and HIA (Khal.es) are not included in the Afghan delegation to Moscow.
                                              16
 NEWS ITEMS:   During  the time   the
 mujaheddin delegation was in Moscow a Russian representative had interviewed Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, inside Afghanistan the contents of which were published by an independent newspaper in. the Soviet Union1. The paper, quoting Hekmatyar, writes that the Soviets are following the footsteps of the US and favored the establishment of a coalition government in Afghanistan and thus they were supporting the US plan. The paper, quoting Hekmatyar, adds that the coalition government has been opposed as an item of the agenda for talks.
                                              23
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 the JIA, told,, a press conference 20 November that the mujaheddin would not be ready to lay down their arms as long as- the Kabul atheist regime was in power. He said, the Russians hadi at first, taken a tough stand against the mujaheddin but had later softened and
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 had offered to the mujaheddin realistic demands.     '         *
 *  Shaharyar Khan, a senior Pakistan Foreign Ministry official, has urged those mujaheddin leaders who did not take part in the Moscow talks to attend the next found of negotiations.
                                                 30
 NEWS ITEMS: Peshawar was the scene of
 fresh political activities regarding the peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue last week. Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, said the Russian POWs would not be released until peace was restored in Afghanistan.
      Prof. Rabbapi, leader of JIA, said the mujaheddin and the world at large are expecting Moscow to take practical steps with sincerity for bringing peace and security in' Afghanistan.
 *  In a press conference at the Jehad University 27 November , Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, stated the Afghan issue could not be solved by a coalition government rn Afghanistan. He added, "according to. information received, a larger part of the present Soviet assistance to the Kabul regime is supplied by the US.
 *  Akram Zaki, Secretary General Foreign Affairs, has expressed optimism that Engineer Hekmatyar would take part in the next round of talks envisaged in. the Moscow agreement.
 *  Benon Sevan, personal representative of the UN Secretary General, urged world nations for sending urgent relief supplies to Afghanistan
             I       ‘  '■ -■ '  • •’
 *  The UNHCR office has been opened in Meshed, Iran near the Afghan border. The measure has been taken at a time when an acute famine threatens central Afghanistan, forcing most of the people to seek refuge in Iran and Pakistan.
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
■>* Regarding the recent Iranian relief supplies to the central parts of Afghanistan, Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, said, "we will appreciate the effort when it is void of religious [ prejudices, but if the move aims at strengthening a particular, group,; . we will regard it against our Islamic arid historical interests."
                                              Khurshed-e- Jehad
                                                   NOVEMBER
             21
 WENS ITEMS: The Commanders' Council in Nangarhar in a Statement has said they have captured 10 KHAD agents disguised as mujaheddin in Shinwar district. Sixteen time—bombs were also recovered from their residents. It is said these were meant for destroying the mujaheddin commanders.
 NEWS ITEMS:     The News (of Pakistan)
 writes:     An     Afghan     mujaheddin
 delegation, led by Professor Rabbani, left (stetj for Moscow. The source added Hekmatyar will also be part of the delegation. This was - decided in a meeting in Islamabad attended by seven mujaheddin leaders. Two leaders/ Mawlawi Khales and Sayyaf abstained. from joining the delegations for New York and the Soviet Union.
      The delegation will utge Moscow to include the following three items in the agenda: (1) The delegation will not discuss the Russian prisoners in custody of mujaheddin hut the main center of focus will be the issue of Afghanistan, (2) During the stay of mujaheddin in the Soviet Union* no official delegation from Kabul will be invited to Moscow, and (3) The
VOL. 5 NO. 1
delegation's talks with the Russians should be held in Tadjikistan or Uzbekistan instead of Moscow.
  The News writes:     The Soviet Union
and the US are agreed on the future of Afghanistan. US Special envoy for mujaheddin, Peter Tomsen,'has said the next step, towards the resolution of Afghanistan problem will > be to dislodge the present Kabul regime. He said, the Soviet Union and the US have signed the agreement of military aid cut-off for ending the war in Afghanistan and, following this agreement, the next step Will be to establish an interim government in Kabul. The interim government will pave the way for free elections in Afghanistan. He added that at lOng best, an acceptable government to all the Afghans will be established in Kabul. Tomsen said that the time of war and confrontation iis over and now is the time for peace*
     Mahaz
                          SEPTEMBER
                                 23
ARTICLES: "Unity our only hope to
Salvation” (Gharwal): From the day, in
our Islamic country of Afghanistan, the communist Khalq and Parcham activists usurped the political power, not only the peaceful life of our compatriots has been taken away but the peace, security and stability of the region and the world at large have been adversely affected and endangered. With faith in the victory of Islam and the defeat of atheism, we are sure that the ruling days of communist activists are numbered and their reign will soon be replaced by an Islamic order, in accordance with the aspirations of our valiant Muslim and mujahed Afghan nation. Bloodshed will cortie to an end,
   . i             ,    1 ■ • ■   , I
                          SEPTEMBER
                 30
 172
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 the rubbles will again turn to constructions and the wounds of our compatriots will heal up provided our resistance forces 'are united, self-seeking ailment disappears and, solely and wholly in the way of Allah, brotherly bonds are strengthened and with a single command and one voice we charge on the enemy bunkers bringing to an end the 13 years calamity.
                             OCTOBER
             17
 NEWS ITEMS: The Gardaiz mujaheddin in
 their armed attacks near the Gardaiz Airport have conquered 13 enemy posts. They have also captured one tank, one truck, two shelka, five medium range rockets, 50 klashenkovs arid eight grinovs; 30 Glim Jam militia have been captured alive. In these fightings, five mujaheddin have been killed and 15 injured.
 * Reports from Jalalabad say that the NIFA mujaheddin shot down 15 October an enemy plane which crashed inside the Jalalabad city.
                                                       NOVEMBER
                                    9
 REPORT: Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani,leader of NIFA, in an interview has strongly condemned the attack on former King of Afghanistan and Said, "unfortunately this has been an act of the extremist and narrow-minded people because they found out that things were recently moving towards moderation and a moderate and Islamic regime would replace the present Kabul regime in Afghanistan and, for. this aim, Zaher Shah was an appropriate individual who might play a significant role during the transitional period. They were afraid of him. This is not a jehadic act but is an act of cowardice and despair and the extremists are trying
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 to find a place for themselves by committing such acts.
      In regard to the reaction of the people, he said, every Afghan who observes such an act against Zaher. Shah cannot tolerate it and condemns it. He said the Afghan nation will not succumb to hegemonism; for years they fought communism and rendered many sacrifices. However, unfortunately there are those who qannot tolerate people who are instrumental in brining about peace in Afghanistan. But they should know that by killing a few people they cannot destroy Afghanistan. Our country and people will remain alive for ever plot and eventually find their way.
             SEPTEMBER
                 29
 INTERVIEW: The Muslim daily1 has carried interview with the retired officers, Mohammad Yusuf, writer of the book "jtfhe Silent Mujahed" in regard to the Afghanistan jehad and Mesbah has published its Dari translation:
     In reply to the question of the military cut-off, treaty between Soviets and the US, to the warring parties of Afghanistan, he said:    This was long
 expected. Although after the withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan the aid was not cut off, the Americans had virtually cut it down. Presently the arms cut-off to Afghan mujaheddin is aimed at restraining the military victory of fundamentalists in Kabul. The US and the Soviets both are against an Islamic government       Afghanistan.
 Since one year the two super powers are trying to get the Afghan nation entangled in bloodshed to such an extent that a government of their choice.could
173
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 be easily imposed on them.
      In reply to the question that why you take away the credit of Soviet
               OCTOBER
                  15
 defeat in Afghanistan from General Ziaul Haq and give it to General Akhtar Abdur Rehman he said:         The
 Pakistan government itself or under US
 pressure has committed many mistakes which were more damaging than .the Soviet invasion. As an example the Pakistan government, during General. Ziaul Haq regime, purchased Blow Pipe rockets whereas those rockets were rejected by ISI, earliei, as useless.
     i                    ■
 The same were accepted by General Ziaul Haq and thousands of them were transferred to Pakistan. These rockets could not be used against the Russian or Kabul aircraft , and. Pakistan's dollars in millions went down the drain. General Abdul Rahman brought
 about solidarity among the mujaheddin seven-party alliance but General Ziaul Haq under US pressure initiated Zaher Shah in to the Afghanistan political scenario which was, ^obviously, meant for containment of the fundamentalists' power. The Afghan leaders and ISI were, not prepared to grant more than 2-3 months time limit to the Russian troops' withdrawal from Afghanistan but General Ziaul Haq granted them 10 months time which proved to be a tragedy for the Afghan mujaheddin.
      He was asked to comment as to why he has mentioned in his . ,book that Hekmatyar's relations with General Ziaul Haq were not cordial whereas Hekmatyar himself has never spoken of having strained relations with General Ziaul Haq. He said: Thosie who knew General Ziiaul Haq will support me that he never expressed, his annoyance openly and never unfolded his mind even to his most intimate friends. Perhaps Hekmatyar was unaware that General Zia.ul Haq was annoyed with him due to his refusal to meet the US President.
 REPORT: Jabraeli, the spokesman of ICCA in a statement, rejected any coalition with the Kabul puppet regime. In a declaration, 10 October, distributed by the ANA, the ICCA also condemned the conspiracies of super powers and urged the jehad forces to unite to nullify these intrigues.
      According to another report, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of HEIA     (Mansqor) too,   in a     press
 conference,      rejected- coalition
 government with Kabul puppet regime and emphasized the need for armed jehad.
      Likewise, earlier* four prominent
 jehad organizations, the JTA, HIA
 (Hekmatyar), IIA and HIA ( Khales), in
 a joint declaration, rejected coalition
                              *
 with the Kabul puppet regime and condemned the imperialistic latest efforts to induce the mujaheddin to join Najib.
      Ahmed Shah Masood, the chief of JIA Supervisory Council, too rejected coalition with the Kabul puppet regime and the communist Party and emphasized' that armed jehad should be continued. >
 * The AIG l.eader, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, in a press conference 13 October in Islamabad, observed that for the political solution of the Afghanistan problem it is not necessary to have full, agreement of the representatives of all idealogies because the majority of mujaheddin parties, foreign-based Afghans and prominent intellectuals favor political solution arid those opposing it are committing a mistake. He said, the. Afghan nation has suffered great losses, a large number of people have been sacrificed, women have turned Widows -and children have lost their parents and the Afghan nation is bored
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHAN JIHAII
 to death with 13 years .of war; they want to live in peace and it is the responsibility of their leaders to create peaceful conditions*
    He said, if the opponents of political settlement do not join the majority, they will be left alone. To a question whether he would accept a conference comprising 200 Afghans and headed by ex-King Zaher Shah, Mujaddedi said,. this issue will be considered arid to another question regarding the duration of interim government# he said, the transitory period will take 1-2 years. To a question whether he favors a military solution of the Afghan problem, Mujaddedi said, presently jehad will continue with political parleys and, besides, the mujaheddin have tested their mettle in the battle field and shall, at the negotiating table, too,come out with flying colors. Mujaheddin's operations should, form a means of pressure on Kabul regime and they (mujaheddin) should not hit the cities and the commanders have been asked to keep the cities besieged only. He said, the majority of the Afghans want political settlement and pieace since the mujaheddin were unable to maintain peace and security in their controlled areas. He implied that three or four persons cannot be a hindrance to peace.
                                                          NOVEMBER
                   Av
 NEWS ITEMS: According- to a reliable
 jehad source, during a congress of HWIA, recently held in Bamian, new party members of the leadership were elected and Mr. Fayyaz, formerly member of HIA (Mohs.eni) was chosen as the new spokesman replacing Murtazavi. Other elected to new posts are:- Mazari, Secretary General, Sadiq, incharge of judicial affairs, Murtazavi, liaison officer, Khalili, incharge of political affairs of Peshawar sector arid Hakimi,
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 supervisory chief.
      It was decided in the meeting that the resolutions passed by HWIA inside the country should be carried by the members outside the country. So far the HWIA sources have not, expressed
 their opinion on the subject.
                     ■ ‘ - : \
 - HIA (Mohseni) has put forward the following conditions regarding talks with the Russians:   (1) The mujaheddin
 ought to adopt a cammon stance, (it) The venue of talks should be chosen by the mujaheddin and (iii) The mujaheddin must be reassured in advance of the sincerity of Russians entering the talks. While briefing on the subject, the source (Observed that the Venue of talks may be a- third country or one of Central Asian Republics (in the Spviet Uhion) ..
                                                  16
 NEWS ITEMS:  At the end of their five-
 day discussion, the mujaheddin delegation concluded Certain agreements with the Soviet authorities, the complete account of which has not been made public. According to reports, they have agreed on the following points;
 1.  The release of 50 Russian POWs against immediate suspension of Russian supplies to the Kabul regime.
 2.  The establishment of an interim government that will hold general elections, within two years' ahd under international supervision.
 * Prof. Rabbani, who led the mujaheddin delegation to the talks, expressed dissatisfaction at the result of the talks. In an interview in Moscow 14 November, he said, negotiations with the Russian authorities which started 11 November had no positive results. He added’, ''talks with the Soviet authorities should continue irrespective of present negotiations."
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AffillflN
 * Some of the Soviet POWs in detention
            i -   ’ ■      1 ••• •
 with the mujaheddin and who have adopted Islam are not returning to the Soviet Union. One of them- an Uzbek- who accompanied the mujaheddin delegation to Jedda; for - being handed over to his family as a goodwill gesture, applied for asylum in Saudi Arabia,
                                                  30
 ■NEWS ITEMS:   Akram Zaki, Pakistani
 Secretary General Foreign Affairs, told a news conference in Islamabad 28 November,     Pakistan     has     some
 reservations regarding the arms ban on the Afghans effective 1 January, 1992. He said, the Pakistan government will not recognize Na jib1s role , in future Afghanistan,
 * Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, told reporters at the Jehad University 26 November, the Russian stand on the Afghan prisoners and the entire Afghan nation has 'always been mixed with a scorn. "While they insist upon the release of their own POWs, our demands for the release of our prisoners are always'unheeded, The Russian POWs will be released after the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan:"
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 with the latest conquests of the mujaheddin Supervisory Council, these latest conquests were carried out according to . the strategy of All Commanders'! Council, planned last Fall, aimed at uprooting the military base and toppling of Kabul regime. To a question that what was the plan of Kabul regime militarily vis-a-vis mujaheddin operations, he said, the Kabul regime strategy consists of defense of cities and expansion of its influence, step by step in the sensitive areas.
    , To a question that, there are people who believe that presently the fighting is continuing as a tug of war between HIA and Supervisory Council of JIA and that is what is keeping the Kabul regime alive/ he replied that needless to say that we do have some problems with HIA like other Islamic parties have, but the survival , of regime does not ‘depend on differences between the Supervisory Council of JIA and HIA.
     QUESTION:- According to published reports you had relations with the leaders of "SAZA" and "SAFZA" in the past. What did you gain' from your contacts, whereas we witnessed some severe clashes between the supervisory Council and "SAZA" forces recently?
     ANSWER: After the withdrawal of
 Russian troops and general amnesty declared by mujaheddin organizations, we asked the SAZA and SAFZA to refrain from enmity with Islam and the people and. join ..the ranks of mujaheddin but unfortunately they did not accept it and we had to carry out our mopping operations to clear the areas from their presence.             •'
                                   OCTOBER
     . , "7
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Rabbani, leader
 of JIA, saw the road construction
 * Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA, said he is prepared to receive a Russian representative in Peshawar, but he should not follow the* foot-steps, of Peter Tomsen, the US envoy for the mujaheddin, by creating rifts among the Afghans.
             SEPTEMBER
                 28
 INTERVIEW:  In  an interview with two
 members of the Writers Association of JIA in Keshm, Badakhshan, Commander Ah-i mad Shah Masood observed in connection
176
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 progress "of northern Chitral of Afghanistan" last week and also visited a mine sweeping project, (which is in progress since two months on* the historical Topkharta runway. The construction work of Topkhana Road, which started from Garm Cheshma region two years ago, has by now, advanced to Dozzakh Darah area, 30 kms^ inside the Afghanistan territory. From the very outset of, jehad until now, the mujaheddin have been crossing the snow bound inaccessible hills ' of this area, suffering hundreds of casualties in horses, mules and donkeys, for logistic needs - of the fronts. With the construction of this road, the vehicles can use it, at least 4-5 months in a year, to fulfill the needs of the people.
      While visiting the progress of these two projects. Professor Rabbani observed:  In the year that we started
 our jehad from the foothills of. these high mountains to wipe out atheism and infidelity, preparations for our jehad for construction too has started from these very fopthills and is advancing successfully. <
 *  In an  interview   with the  MIDIA,
 Professor Rabbani said,, the imposition of the former King with a different complexion by outside powers is not acceptable to the Afghan people. He said the Kabul regime is a remnant of Russian aggression and the creation of a joint and coalition government with this regime stands rejected as far as we are concerned.              ;
 *  In an  interview   with the  MIDIA,
 Professor Rabbani said, members of the mujaheddin delegation to Moscow are yet to be decided and the date of their departure too must be fixed.
 ;REPORT:  Dr. Sebghatullah, responsible
 for running JIA Health Center in southeast and northeast provinces.
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 is now visiting Peshawar for transportation of medicines and medical . facilities. In an interview, he said, during the first half of the current year more than 30,000 patients have been treated in the Health, Center. He added, the Health Center has 10 beds. It primarily ;cateis to the medical requirements .of    patients     in the
 districts of Baharak, Jurm, Reran Menjan and some central areas of Badakhshan province.
      He said, beside this center, there was also a maternity clinic run by trained nurses. There are 70 trained nurses, serving the mujaheddin and the people, in the health center and its central and mobile clinics.
                                                    21
 REPORT:  "Norcotics and its negative
 affects on human Society" This was the title of a conference held 6 October within the compound of the Mujahed High School,of the JIA.
      The meeting was attended by some members of the JIA Executive Council, mujaheddin? refugees, teacher^ and students of the mujaheddin high school.
  ' The, meeting was opened with the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran and later Dr. Abdul- Hai, President of Educational Committee of JIA, in a speech Said that campaign against the use of notcotics was a religious obligation of all Muslims and. explained its negative effects oh human beings. He said, millions of people throughout the world are addicted to narcotics and they have all become burden on others and in this way a major portion of humanity has been paralyzed.
      In this grand meeting Ustad Fazalyar in a short speech pointed out the dangers of narcotics and dwelt on Islamic views. Other brethren also-
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 A [fill ANUlllflO                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 spoke on the subject.
      In the program was also included a chorus and a short act on the stage by the students of the high school. This was the most attractive part of the program. The conference was ended after conferring prizes . to students who participated in the chorus and acting on the stage and read articles.
                                                 13
 REPORT: A meeting was held 28 October
 in Chamkani near Peshawar to discuss the present position of the members of Islamic Movement. Those Who attended the meeting included the mujaheddin, the refugees, Pakistanis and some of the members of the Islamic Movements whether they worked with the mujaheddin organizations or have resigned from their posts.
      Those who were sitting on the stage to answer questions were mainly party dissidents. The meeting was held at a time when a mujaheddin delegation Was about to leave for Moscow for talks with the Russians on the basis of a Soviet invitation.
      Those who spoke were Eng. Ahmad Shah* Eng. Obaidullah Seerat, Mawlawi Sakhidad Fayez, Mohammad Zatnan Mozam-mel, Ustad Abu Abdul Rahman Ahmadzai and Qazi Mohammad Hakeem. While expressing their views on the political situation of the jehad, they opposed the mujaheddin' delegation's visit to the Soviet Union and said that going to Russia at a juncture when the jehad was on the threshold of victory was not in the interest of the nation. They said they were not against the principle of talks with the Russians but these talks fehould be held> in another place. Although invitation cards !were sent to many people, only 250-300 attended the gathering. At least one of the speakers complained about the lack of attendance and said those who did not attend the
 meeting will regret it soon. During the meeting tens of questions were sent to the organizer by the audience. But most of them were not answered and also it was repeatedly demanded from the sponsors to allow a number of people to speak on behalf of the audience. However# under the pre-text of the shortage of time, nobody was allowed to speak.
     A summary of the questions issued were read by Mohammad Zaman Mozammel which included: where were you until
 now? Who has given you the authority to organize a conference on the issue of jehad? Each one of you has a salary Of 10,000 and riding luxury car. How can you then serve the mujaheddin? You are the people who havie been dismissed by your organizations and lost your power and authority and are now trying to organize a new party under the name of Islamic Movement.
     Answers to these and ,other questions were postponed for another meeting and the session was ended with prayers.
                                NOVEMBER
                                           11
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, prior to
 departure for Moscow, told a gathering of party members at Chamkani#. "no negotiations will be able to change our military' postures. We shall face the Russians with a valorous jehadic feeling and put them at test. Political settlement of the Afghan problem will take place when Najib packs up and leaves. We cannot say that the Russians are sincere on this matter: until thd result of their intervention in Afghanistan, i.e. the Kabul regime, ceases to exist."
     Prof. Rabbani stated, "in my opinion, under present conditions, international intrigue might impose upon us
178
   '
  either a neutral or coalition government. Our neglect in informing the public has created a state that whoever succeeds in sabotaging the mujaheddin and their organizations, will be branded as a best revolutionary figure.
  We must set aside our indifference and apathy. We must not leave the trenches non-attended and^ we must make every possible move towards reaching our goals. And. this is our individual obligation. As long as conditions in Afghanistan have not changed in favor , of the mujaheddin, neither Pakistan nor any other nation can help us."
                                                                  DECEMBER
    ; v. 7                    \
  NEWS ITEMS: Congratulating the JIA
  leader on the phone, Ahmad Shah Masood said, after the return of the delegation from Moscow contacts between senior Kabul regime officials have increased and the residents of Kabul are eagerly awaiting the downfall of th e last pillars of the puppet regime and its lackeys.
  *  Over 10 congratulatory messages by jehad commanders to the JIA leader on the success of the , Moscow negotiations have been published in this issue of the Mujahed journal.
  * -The Afghanistan Islamic Bank became operative for the first time, in Taluqan by the JIA Supervisory Council. Its branch office was recently opened in Peshawar. The bank, which operates on non-interest basis, handles and transfers private funds against a meagre fee. Though the bank is administered by the JIA Supervisory Council, members of Islamic organizations and good Muslim can also use the bank.
      Khair Mohammad Khan, an old colleague of Ahmad Shah Masood, is th.es. manager of the Peshawar branch of the
                                                                                     179
 bank. He is reported to have said, under present conditions, when the value of the afghani has drastically fallen, its transfer in large sums would cause the bearers tremendous problems. As the first step the bank would provide facilities from Peshawar to Afghanistan and vice-versa for the transfer of funds. '
    Khair Mohammad added, "the Islamic Bank also plans to facilitate arrangements for free trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan."    *
          Mujahed-e- Far da SPECIAL FOR CHILDREN
                          SEPTEMBER
                                  27
 ARTICLES: "Migration": Migration (in
 Islam) is to do away from one's hearth
and home  in   the way of Allah   and 
according to   His will. Infidels of  
Makkah prior   to  the migration  of  
Muslims,  were  creating hurdles  in  
 propagation of Islam and preventing the Muslims to carry out God's Orders and Will freely. They even tried several times to assassinate the Holy Prophet of Islam Mohammad, peace be upon him.
     ’.            y
      The Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, along with his- Companions sought refhge in Yasreb, afterwards known as Madina-e-MunaWwarah. The people of Madina received the Holy Prophet and his companions with open ‘ arms and eyen offered to share their * property with them. The people of Madina, in groups and individually, came to the Holy Prophet and joined the fold of Islam. As the number of Muslims in Madina multiplied^ day in day out, the people of Makkah started worrying and thought of hatching plots but f finally in the 9th year of Hijra Makkah was entirely conquered by the Muslims. Since we are our Prophet Mohammad's
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL- 5 NO. 1
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
  people and his followers, therefore we ameliorate his example to follow him and take after him in our daily life* When the Russians and their henchmen invaded our country and let loose a reign of terror in our sacred land, ’we too, in accordance with the tenets of Islam, followed our Prophet, peace be upon him, sought refuge and turned into refugees. As such, while in refuge and as a refugee, we ought to first and foremost, heed to the injunctions of Allah, do his bidding and abstain from the forbidden and, as perfect Muslims, be prepared for jehad.
                                   OCTOBER
                                          12
                 V
  EDITORIAL: Have you noticed if the
  foundation of a wall is crooked it will eventually give^ in and collapse? But if the foundation is solid and straight, no matter how high it is built, it will remain stable and steady. The education issue is identical; in case \ the subjects are studied, in the
  beginning of the academic year, and the student is attentive to the teachers inside the classroom and do his homework carefully, he will be sure of success.
L             - '  . , , '   •
             ’ . \ 1 Some of our youth are used to
  leave today's work for tomorrow, saying there is plenty pf time left to the examination Whereas this may lead to failure. One of the factors is the condition and atmosphere prevalent inside the classroom which creates a hurdle in the way of learning and concentrating properly. In other words there are some students inside the classroom whio neither pay attention to the' teachers themselves not they would allow others to concentrate, it is to be mentioned that here in an environment of refuge, the pupils ; endowed with Islamic ideals and morality and committed to their
 VOL- 5 NO. 1
 religion, people and jehad, invariably respect their teachers and care for their classmates and" try to maintain a peaceful and conducive environment inside the classroom so that their diligence and hardwork is not wasted and excel others.
 EDITORIAL:  "...  Every youth wants to
 have a friend whom he can trust ... However, if friendship is for material wordly aims, it should be ignored because it may have grave and dangerous consequences. For instance, friendship among communists which has ended with the killing of teacher by his student and killing of comrade by comrade. So you as mujahed and revolutionary youth of Afghanistan are dutybound to ask yourself before choosing^ a friend whether your friend)) is a Muslim? How. old is he? Is he your age? Has he the same level of education? And with whom he was a friend before becoming your friend?". .
 OCTOBER— NOVEMBER
 REPORT: Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan described the communist coup in Russia of greatN importance. He said, the people of the soviet Union, during the past few days-, observed closely a condition of despair; and agony and also the success of. the will of the majority of people and respect for the legality of their political system. The people and government of the Soviet Union are to realize further that the people of Afghanistan, during their 13 years of jehad/ have gone through different stages of agony and despair and a destituted life. But they have faced all this with bravery and rendering of sacrifice. However, unfortunately until now the, will of the majority of the Afghan people has not been achieved and
OCTOBER-DECEMBERr 1991 AfGIIIIIIJ[|IAU                 VOL- 5 NO. 1
 realized. I and my countrymen while welcoming the restoration of stability of the political order in the Soviet Union in accordance with the will of the majority of the people of the Soviet Union* hope the Soviet Union too will play its role in the just solution of the Afgfhanistan problem and restoration of stability in the country by heeding the free will of the people of Afghanistan.".
      Also, the former King in regard to tri-partite conference of Iran, Pakistan and mujaheddin, said, in another statement:   "the creation of a
 triangle for seeking a political solution , to the Afghanistan issue and adoption of certain decisions, as reflected in the statement of the second round of such a meeting, by a body in which its two parties are not Afghans, will not only not hold the solution of the problem, but will create misunderstanding and concern, at the national level in Afghanistan.
      "We hope that the brotherly role played by the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan will be in the framework of offering of advice and unconditional cooperation, void of any manifestation of interference and the Afghans are given, the opportunity to solve the issue of their country through brotherly Afghan understanding within the wide framework of the will of the entire nation."
      In regard to the Moscow joirtt declaration between the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union and the American Secretary of States on suspension of arms shipment by the two sides to Afghanistan, the former King has said:   "the people of Afghanistan
 are actually not in favor of war but war has been imposed upon them. The banning of arms for both sides of the conflict will help towards the political solution of the Afghan issue. "
                                                                                                       181
 * Wolusmal, the editor of the newspaper has put forward the following questions:   (1) The second round of
 tri-partite talks between Iran, Pakistan and the Afghan mujaheddin which ended 29 August in Tehran shows the role undertaken by Pakistan, in regard to the issue of Afghanistan, due to certain Considerations is being undertaken by Iran. The language of the statement issued at the end of this conference shows that the Afghan participants were only observors because they have not been able to offer this statement at least in the Dari language which is one of the two official languages of the people of Afghanistart. Also the joint statement has said, "the meeting decided to send; a. delegation to the UN General Assembly Session and the session of QIC in Dakar." While in that conference the Afghan side was in miniority, how could it make a decision. It is therefore, apparent that this decision was not an Afghan decision but that pf aliens. In this regard as an Afghan intellectual what is your opinion?
 (2)   What dp you think about the latest changes in the Soviet Union which resulted in the elimination of the communist party and KGB and what would their result be on * the Afghanistan issue and the Kabul regime?
 (3) It is being speculated that Dr. Shams, in pursuance to his earlier activities, which has been reflected in his written proposal,' has been travelling between Kabul, Rome and some Afghans living in Europe and United States as well as Prof* Mujaddedi are trying to find a solution to the Afghanistan problem. If the news about efforts undertaken by Dr. Shams is correct, to what extent will, these be in the interest of the people of Afghanistan?
    •„ •     I   ‘           *  -
 (4)  It; is apparent from, th& latest
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 MlillllNJIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
 changes in the Soviet Union that the Kabul communist regime will not' last for long; right now it is being said that Najib will vacate his seat to Khaliqyar and at a last resort they will call upon the former King tc? come and fill the gap. Before the Kabul present regime falls down and fighting breaks up between the resistance forcps for assuming the Kabul government and, God forbid, there is a new round of bloodshed at this very sensitive moment, what is your proposal for solving the Afghanistan issue?
     The Mujahed Ulus has put forward these question^ to the Former Prime Minister of Afghanistan Dr. Mohammad Yousuf. However; after a lapse of 11-days, he has said that he was too busy , 'and could not answer the questions. Wolusmal has commented, may be he is busy in the kind of activities which are undertaken now-a-days in Europe and the Mujahed Ulus referred to these activities in its- question No. 3 , ■       1  ;
     Dr. Tabibi has answered these questions and has described the meetings held between the leaders and Pakistan at this critical and historical stage with the mujaheddin^ and resistance leaders as a sound move and, has explained that obviously the real party to the Afghan issue Were the Afghans themselves and the two neighboring brotherly countries of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran, were only at the Side line.
      Mohammad Aziz Naeem (member of the former Afghan royal family) in answer to these question has said: interference by our ’’friends* has been going on in one or another way ahd the continuation of such a situation will not only face our people with various kinds of unpleasent events, but will endanger our' territorial integrity and national identity.
                    Naveed-e- Pairozee OCTOBER 2
 EDITORIAL: Although there does not seem td be any eye-catching vacuum in the jehadic press scenario so that this publication can take upon itself the duty of making up for lapses, since the development of cultural ideas oh sound footing calls for meeting of ideas and unison in thinking, may be that the publication of Naveed-e-Pairuzee can prove effective and productive in its own way. Besides, ICCA, which is presently patronizing four genuine jehad groups, so far has been contended with only a single monthly magazine but; since the Council is endowed with rich cultural capabilities and the. current sensitive conditions and incessant political changes make the' presence of another publication indispensable, so that it can speedily transmit ' the developments and reflect the stance and views of the ICCA, therefore it was decided to publish this paper as a news medium and henceforth our kind readers will be able to peruse a fresh issue of this paper once every 10days.
 Neda-e-Adalat
 AUGUST- SEPTEMBER
 REPORT: Iri. a press conference in Pe-
 shawar on a tripartite conference held In Islamabad, Huj jat-ul-Islam Gebraeli, spokesman of the ICCA, said, the presence of the ICCA in talks on Afghan problem will not be detrimental to the Islamic Republic of ifan. We declare equivocally that a conference without the presence of the ICCA will be devoid of official : status and implementation of its decisions will also be difficult. .
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 AFGHANill II Ml                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 He said, we; appreciate the efforts of neighbouring Islamic countries and they ought to pay glowing tributes, too, vehemently to the Muslim and mujahed Afghan nation because they created such epics which may not have parallel in the history of the Muslim countries. But friendly cooperation of neighbouring and Islamic countries ought to be for the sake of a cooperation only and not for the impositioii of their opinion. Interference in national self-determination will, however, be taken as unkindliness and shall, ,be considered as insult . to the Muslim Afghan nation's prestige.
                * /        . I
      Our muslim and neighbouring countries have no right to point out the destination of the, Muslim Afghan nation but are only entitled to cooperate in the fruition of our revolution.
 * In regard to the Islamabad tripartite conference, he said, what, is to be mentioned is that while we appreciate (the efforts) of our fraternal neighbouring country bgt at the same time we have severe grievances against the Pakistani brethren and the participant parties for not inviting the Coalition Council to this conference.
                                  SEPTEMBER OCTOBER
 EDITORIAL: "Principled Positions". An
 important recent political development has been holding of talks between the mujaheddin leaders and Soviet officials. According to observers, talks with the Russians are not denied by anyone and basically they are inevitable. Even k if, by the grace of God* we reach our goals through military means, we will still have to negotiate with the . Russians regarding POWs and other subjects. There are many who Support talks and there are others Vho,, oppose -it on the ground that it will be tantamount to paying ransom to the Russians. It looks as though
 rejecting talks may not be in the interest of the nation or the revolution. Therefore, negotiations are desirable but there are some principles to be adhered to: (1) The venue for
 talks should be other than the Soviet Union, (2) the mujaheddin leaders must agree on a single strategy prior to the talks, (3) there should be no retreat from the principled positions of the revolution during the talks and (4) political solution should not be viewed as the only option to the Afghan conflict.    )
    The mujaheddin should not .be alarmed if the talks with Russians failed. The Russians themselves are terribly despaired and weakened than ever in the past. Now political changes have created conditions to make them disinterested in supporting Najib any further. Their only concern is that, after the ouster pf Najib, Afghanistan does not become a security problem for them and the Central Asian Islamic nations. If they are assured of peaceful coexistence, they will probably give up their support of the Najib regime.'
  Neda-e-Haq
                         NOVEMBER
           10
 MESSAGE: Mawlawi Mansoor, the leader of HEIA (Mansoor), in a message from ,the . jehad trench has said: "We are not
 against holding talks with the Russians".. However, since even now our /Muslim nation is beihg killed with the Russian arms, advice and by the Russian puppet regime and our country is being still destroyed, we are again sending a delegation under the name of the mujaheddin to Moscow and consider this as contempt of the objectives of jehad and contrary to national interest. The
                                                      183
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGllflNJIHilfl                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 ,, delegation which is about to depart
     for Moscow under mujaheddin name, can-
     not represent the mujaheddin and such visit is an injustice to the jehad and will bring nothing but disgrace. ARTICLES: "On the occasion of the 25th
     anniversary of the foundation of the Khuddam-ul-Furqan (the servants of Quran)" ... Hazrat-e-Ismail Mujaddedi in 1966 founded the Khuddam-ul-Furqan Institution within the framework of Noor-ul Madares of the province of Ghazni. The present jehad leaders such / as Mawlawi Mansoor, Mawlawi Abdul Sattar Siddiqi and Mawlawi Rahimullah were also present when the institution ,  was opened at that time. This insti-
     tuion believed in Parliamentary activities and was of the opinion that under the conditions prevailing at that time, parliament was the only institution which could bring about changes in the established order. Thus, during the last elections held Under the Monarchy, member of the Kuddam-ul-Furqan Institution were instructed to involve themselves in, electing good people to the parliament ...
         "The Khuddam-ul-Furqan institution had a weekly journal for propogating its ideas. It was called the Heda-e-Haq and published in Kabul. The newspaper was established in 1971 and was published until the 17 July, 1973 coup lead by Daoud. The Khuddam-ul-Furqan is a scholarly and religious organization, the majority of its members being religious scholars and other elements of the society were al$o its members. Now the HEIA (Mansoor) is representing r the Khuddam-ul-Furqan and for the realization of its objectives the HEIA is busy in struggle and the publicatxon of a magazine entitled Khuddam-ul-Furqan and of a journal under the name of Neda-e-Haq is a witness to this act.
                                                               SEPTEMBER
                    25
     REPORT: Regarding the life attempt on
 Mohammad Amin Ferotan, deputy of HEIA, Security and Jehad Chief of , HEIA, Rahmatullah Wahedyar, has said that the terroristic attack is a conspiracy of the world imperialists. Our leader Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan has* done *a lot for the solidarity of jehad rank and file and God willing he will continue to serve the cause of jehad. That is why they did not want his plans to be. implemented and started Sabotaging in order to annihilate such well wishers from the jehad scene. He said, we consider this an /inhuman and outrageous act and declare openly that no intrigues, threats or terrorism, can divert us from our path and their efforts are bound to fail.
                                  OCTOBER
               19
 REPORT: Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor,
 leader of HEIA, in a function 3 October held due to the injuries received by Mohammad Amin Ferotan,the deputy leader of the HEIA after an unsuccessful attempt on his life, said "Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan, the Cultural and Polotical deputy leader of HEIA has spent his life in the service of Islamib revolution and a sincere and untiring struggle. Due to such activities and his solid stand he was envied
      • I
 by the enemies of Islam who, upon the instructions of their masters, set a plot to kill him 22 August. However, with the help of Almighty God, this treacherous plot was frustrated and Haji Ferotan's life was saved".
     He said, "these very enemies of Islam, as part of their terrorist challenges against Haji Ferotan agdi his party, also spread lies that Ferotan was a Shia and ... and HEIA was helping the Irani Shia's. Or that Ferotan was 'terrorized by the mujaheddin because of his anti-mujaheddin writings. However, we want to say that the HEIA had started Islamic struggle 25 years ago
184
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 k((!HANUlRAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 It is an independent, free and Islamic organization which considers any kind of collusion with others as a treason although it keeps its Islamic brotherly relations with all the Muslims, inclu-the Iranians. Also this is a political organization which had the honor of following Imam-e-Azam, may God bestow His grace upon him, and is of the opinion that the Shias and Sunnis are both Muslims and borthers to each other. The crime of attempt on the life of Ferotan was not carried because he was a puppet or slave to others or he had a negative stand against the mujaheddin; it was carried out by those puppets who constantly change their position and tactics for the sake of financial and material gains and assume different stands and positions... Our organization has begunits struggle for the preservation of, the independence tl Islamic sovereignty of Afghanistan and has proved in action that it cannot accept the rule of any foreign power and Considers subservience to alien rule tantamount to a big treason to Islam and to a free Afghanistan,
                                                    Neda-e- Jundullah
                              OCTOBER
              7
 REPORT: The mujaheddin of Jundullah
 division of Kabul province started their operations 17 September with heavy weapons of BM-12, BM-41 and 82 MM. mortar guns in Balamala, Kooti-e-Setara and Dara-e-Pashai posts and in Bagh-e-Daud and Qargha 8th Division as a result of which Balamala post was conquered. Eight klashenkovs and two grihovs were seized by mujahedctin and a Set of BMl3 was destroyed. . '
    Mujaheddin of Jundullah division of Kabul province fired 21 Sakar missiles 17 September on Division 18, two missiles of which hit the safe
 guard of the Division and the rest landed in the barracks of Brigade 12 and completely demolished one block; 121 men were killed and 13 wounded.
     The mujaheddin of Jundullah Division had planted two" anti-tank mines in Baigtoot, Paghman, 18 September resulting in arson in two military vehicles, full of equipment, and killing all their occupants. The mujaheddin of Jundullah fired 26 missiles on Bagh-e-Daud and Division 8, 18 September, two of Which hit the vanguard of Division 8, destroying a military vehicle and 121 men and demolishing the Division building. Twenty eight soldiers and five officers were killed in Bagh-e-Daud and one j,eep was destroyed.
       ■         -'   .'  i
     On the same date, mujaheddin destroyed completely the posts of Kadnusen, Sangshah and Arosi and different kind of equipment and weapons were seized by them. Twenty three soldiers and two officers .were killed 18 September in the post of Qala-e-Nau Pashai and Khana-e-Yakub and a pitched battle is raging.
     The mujaheddin of Jundullah Division operated in' the posts of Twelve Tmam, Qala-e-Nau, Qala-e-Haji Yakub, Kooti-e-Sitara and Balamala 29 September resulting in the capture of four posts of Twelve Imam and seizure of. weapons.           \
    Neda^e-Sangur
                                OCTOBER
              8
 MESSAGE: .Captain Mohammad Ismail,
 General Commander of South' West Region, in a message has said: "Dear Brethren,
 as you all know, it is now more than 30 days that the Kabul puppet regime, under the cover of its innocent slogans
185
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991      flHlHANJtliflO            VOL. 5 NO- 1
 of 'national conciliation' and peace, has been attacking brutally from land and air our jehad bunkers in Western Herat particularly Zendajan district resulting in martyrdom of a large number of defenseless people of the area including Muslim women and children, demolition of residential quarters     and      devastation     of
 agricultural products of the region along with vast financial losses. Furthermore, tens of thousands of our
 defenseless Muslims were forcibly
      # ■
 turned into refugees and, during the immigration, they lost their children and babies. But confronting them valiantly, the heroes of trenches; steadfastly stuck to their positions and fought the enemy bravely and with the grace of God Almighty killed them in thousands. If during this unequal battle our people Suffered losses to the tune of billions of afghanis and so far 300 , of our mujaheddin have been severely wounded but, on the other hand, the enemy's casualties have also been 3,000 dead and wounded, 120 tank and armored carriers burnt, two passenger aircraft, two jet war-planes along with ,one helicopter eliminated in Zendajan of Herat. Ten enemy warplanes were destroyed in Sheen Dand Airport of Herat, and now during the past 80 days of battle, all groups of mujaheddin organizations     have collectively,
 without discrimination, fought the atheist enemy valiantly in this holy war” .
      The message adds, "The mujaheddin have put up bravely against the enemy and, irrespective bf the odds against them, including fresh reinforcement to the enemy troops, the mujSheddin are holding on to the same positions of 80 days before and there has been no change' in their positions.
      "Nevertheless, considering. the sensitive prevalent condition, the South West General Command of JIA, has
 urged all Afghan Islamic organizations and refugees outside the country, to reinforce their’ mujahed bunkers brethren and condemn the ignonimous crimes and shameful activities of the Kabul atheist regime".
                             NOVEMBER
                                     21
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbahi, leader of the
 JIA, stated in Peshawar 3 November, "you are fully aware that your past history is full cif, Islamic culture and values, in your contemporary history you have been sincere and powerful pioneers and during the 13 years of war you have earned great honors for the Islamic jehad and your nation and the Islamic community at large.
    "I am sure you are all conscious of these values and of the price you have paid with the blood of hundreds of thousands of the martyrs and sufferings of the entire nation and your own discomfort. We must, therefore work towards reaching our Islamic goals conscientiously and our efforts must be directed for the establishment of an Islafnic order in our country without
 AUGUST —SEPTEMBER
 ARTICLES: "The Political rights of
 woman". Abdul Hafeez Hamed Azizi, the writer of the article, refers to the opinion expressed by Islamic scholars for and against the right of woman to vote and conclude: (1) Women have the
 right to be elected in the Islamic Shoora and have the right ' to vote, because woman has the right to serve as an attorney and as a witness. She can also serve on her own behalf or appoint another person to act on her behalf.(2) The Islamic State is dutybound to
186
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
organize eletoral districts and' consultative bodies on the basis of Shariat and women and men are not mixed. And, of course, due, to
technological progress this is completely , passible. (3) Woman, although she has the right to .participate in election. process and become a member of Islamic parliament, does not have the right to declare herself a candidate for the head of the State because this right has. been abrogated from her on the basis of Shariat texts and consensus among all jurisprudents.
(4) Although the word ‘'allegiance" and the word "elections" have two different connotations, one can derive the meaning of election from the word alle-Igiance because allegiance at the time of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, also had a political connotation. It is worth mentioning that the. third Khalif of Islam (Hazr.at-e-Usman) was elected on the basis/ of general elections and Abdul Rahman Bin Aof was. incharge of tabulating the votes.
 Payam-e-Islam
                          OCTOBER
 EDITORIAL:  The Russians, after, their
 military defeat, started a diplomatic game, the environment of Refugees' pregnant with party politics overriding the national policy and lofty religious and Muslim homeland interests, paved the Iway for Soviet success, the puppet regime remained in saddle and the mujaheddin were identified as killers and saboteurs to the world. The editorial discusses the aforementioned topics and then concludes:   .
      The continuity of a few partite Kabul regime and a feeble diplomacy pursued by jehad parties, the US
 withdrawal from the area, world community inclination towards peaceful solution of problems and regional wars and the UN plan for the settlement of the Afghanistan crisis have contributed to unprecedented accelerationn of the
 process of political solution and Kabul regime# while considering daily changes in world and regional politics, has harmonized its policies; whereas jehad fotces could not decide, clearly, on either of the options i.e. political or
 military - solutions, thereoy proving their differences. After the agreement of    super  powers      to cut arms  to
 Afghanistan and not pursue the war alternative, the Kabul regime has demonstrated more flexibility asking respectfully the ex-King to step into
 the scene cooperating in restoration of peace, and there are supporters of this topic in Peshawar too. Under the prevalent conditions,- jehad forces are at a cross-road to either sustain their war efforts, isolating themselves from the regional and world politics,-. and
 with their weak diplomacy strengthen the hands of the, enemy or else, in order to keep pace with the caravan arid promote the process of political solution and national conciliation, press the enemy hand across the negotiating table.
      Considering the prevalent conditions and sensitive circumstances, if jehad forces do not pull themselves' out of this deadlock shrewdly, further
 break up may occur and the Kabul regime will file up the ex-King and some of jehad groups in a single line and the parties branded as fundamentalists will proceed on the war path. But if internal and external conditions are jiot conducive! for them, it will be up to Pakistan to isolate itself alongwith the fundamentalists or, for the sake of her national interests, leave them aside.
187
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991     NlUli
                                                 23
 EDITORIAL:  Discussing "the American
 intrigues" against Afghanistan and Palestine and the Soviet supporting them, the editorial concludes:      The
 entire Afghan nation generally and the fundamentalists particularly ougfht to accept this principle that the Soviet strategy vis-a-vis Afghanistan has not changed arid probably it never will change arid if Russia has been weakened it is neither due to world eventsled by the US, nor that of the Islamic world or Afghanistan, What is important to notice is that the Soviet economic and political crises have not so far affected the continuity of Russian Cooperation with Kabul regime.
      Events show    that the Russians*
 despite their problems, are continuing their cooperation with the Kabul regime and claims that it will stop, is. a mere fraud, although      American    aid to
 mujaheddin has already stopped or has neared the zero point. They are propagating the     political  solution
 not really to solve the crisis but to prepare     the; minds   for the
 implementation qf their anti-Islanvic strategy and its effects were amply demonstrated during the visit to the UN of mujaheddin delegation, the response to the Soviet invitation of mujaheddin leaders' visit to Moscow, Russian plan to keep Khaligyar and the omission of Najib. The mujaheddin leaders have been showing their differences and partisanship more than ever before. A number of leaders have ignited the battle fire in Gardaiz and Jalalabad in order to continue their pressure on the Kabul regime and Russians and another group have called the spread of war, a hurdle in the way of political solution to the Afghanistan problem.
      Right now ambiguity is' reigning in political and military policies of the mujaheddin. In case the * leaders ignore
(Mill             VOL.  5 no. 1
 the sensitivity of conditions and circumstance and continue their; rifts and differences in political and military fields, they will miss the last opportunity for the solution of the problem and lose ground. It ought to be borne in mind that without unity of thought and action of the entire jehad forces, neither political nor military solution is possible.
                               NOVEMBER
               6
 EIDITORIAL: "Political disarray of the
 Russians and divisions among jehad forces":
     The editorial thinks the Russian invitation of the mujaheddin to Moscow is not sincere and advises the mujaheddin to adopt a united stance, in case they are prepared for the visit, and should bear in mind that the Soviet Ambassador had said in London that the HIA and JIA both ought to be present in the talks. The leaders of both the parties feel that the Russians are favoring the strength of these two parties in the battle-field whereas the Russians are not thinking in these lines and they have nothing to do with the strength or weakness of this party or that party. They only want to create a wrong impression of self-reliance among some parties so that they, consider themselves as big ones and ignore the other parties and more differences among mujaheddin ranks surface and, in the current sensitive conditions, new political problems crop up. In case some of the parties commit such a mistake, it causes further misunderstanding among the jehad forces and, the Kabul regime political front will be strengthened. As such the continuity of war will in the near future make the Kabul regime, with minor change, acceptable to ex-King and a number of Afghans who are at odd with the fundamentalists. At a later stage.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991  AfflllllN JIHflli              VOL. 5 NO. 1
 the communist pawns will be left out of power and a sick democratic order comprised of several parties, ostensibly religious, will emerge which according to Moscow, will be nothing more than a sterile system between the East and West.                 ,
 EDITORIAL: "Great changes and similar,
 responsibilities"Discussing Russian, Kabul regime and mujaheddin difficulties and concludes, "If unity is not forged and the much desired ceasefire by the Russians and the Kabul regime is held, it. will be extremely difficult to bring the divided forces back under a single command. It will make impossible victory in the elections two years later for the supporters of the Islamization of our society. The present situation, which has caused a multitude of problems, places greater responsibility upon mujaheddin groups, particularly their leaders, to mobilize their resources. At such stage, when political strategy, long-run diplomacy,, economic plan and securing resources, for the reconstruction of the war-torn country are badly needed, unity and understanding among the mujaheddin groups form a religious and historic obligation."
       DECEMBER 11
 EDITORIAL: " Political rtnili tar y alliance and settlement of the Afghan issue". The editorial says, "the changes indicate that present political trends are in the direction of peace and stability. Mujaheddin leaders have sensed the speedy changes taking place in Afghanistan arid have also accepted the confused and chaotic political atmosphere and, in order to step out of the situation, they have taken steps which gradually will move them towards the formation of a common political strategy* The Leadership Council and
                                                                           189
that of hal-wa-aqd (men of wisdom) Council are firm steps taken towards the formation of an interim government but the differences are not yet totally resolved. The grand national Shoorai (Loya Jirgah), the council of leaders and harmony for the military option, are plans that are favored and talkgd about. If the leaders do not agree with any of these options, of which the latter is the least favored, and do not place'the interest of the homeland and religion above individual or group interests, the present political trend will* forge ahead in any case and will weaken the position of the mujaheddin groups still further and will set them aside benefitting only Najib and supporters of the secular regime and pro-western elements."    / •
  Payam-e-Ittefaq
AUGUST - SEPTEMBER
INTERVIEW: In an interview regarding
the recent developments in Russia, Professor Mehdavi, head of the I CCA, observed, had harliners succeeded and got the upper hand, some difficulties could have cropped up for mujaheddin.At the most the jehad would have prolonged and Najib's resistance intensified, though the regime is losing ground with no hope of its survival. Now with the reversal in coup, the case is exactly the opposite. There are people in Russia who do not support the Kabul puppet regime. God willing, the mujaheddin shall be victorious.
    Aboutthe_ Tehran tripartite conference, he said, in my opinion the conference is defective. These affairs would not be effective the reason being that, in , conferences Convened in connection with political problems, all the concerned and interested parties should participate. While in this conference the most influential jehad grpups, whether Sunni or Shi a, were not
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIAN lilWIO                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
 present. Obviously a defective meetihg of few groups will, have , no. effect on the Afghanistan problem.
 REPORT: Speaking pn the occasion of the death anniversary of Prophet Mohammad, peace be upon him, and the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hasan, may God. be happy with him, Ayatullah Mohseni, leader of HIA observed., meetings held in Islam-mabad and Tehran are no cure to our ailments. We never want a patron and for that matter do not accept the patronage of any country. He said, .possibly the Kabul   regime . will
 collapse, but if we do not do anything what difference would it make. When Babrak and his predecessors passed away it did not shake us in the least. If we have no programs and no plans and do not compromise among ourselves then it will be all the same.
                                                       Payam-e-Jehad
                            SEPTEMBER OCTOBER
 COMMENTARY: In 'late September a
 tripartite conference, comprising several Afghan jehad groups and governments of Pakistan and Iran was convened in Tehran fpr two days. The HIA, headed by Hekmatyar and the HIA Headed by Khales along with the ICCA did not attend tfye conference. Thus the value of the conference was depreciated even than the tripartite Islamabad conference a month ago. There was no word for the Afghanistan jehad in the conference but had a propoganda aspect for the host country. The = conference satisfied itself only with repetitions saying that the mujaheddin should meet with the Russians and go to the UN. The Iranian Foreign Ministry authorities due to the pressure of neighbouring country (Pakistan) was forced to invite the HIA. (Mohseni) representative but they misbehaved with him in Tehran. Oh the first day, he was debarred from attending the conference and in fact
 one can say that he was' kidnapped. On the second day, owing to the pressure of the Afghan participating groups, the Iranians agreed to admit him in the conference provided he would not talk in the session.
      Some ask as to why the HIA attended the conference since it does not believe in such conferences and even question their credibility and calling them interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. They say, the HIA should nob have attended the conference and should have saved itself from humiliation. Our response is that we merely attended - on the ground to repudiate the Iranian Radio and Television announcement regarding the dissolution of HIA and its merger with Wahdat Party.' That is why we accepted the Iranian invitation and HIA representative personally attended the Tehran conference to reject their claim and, thus, our object was achieved. Obviusly this prompted the Iranian authorities to misbehave with the HIA delegate.
                                   OCTOBER NOVEMBER
 COMMENT: Although the government of
 Iran is collecting 1,500 tomans monthly from Afghan refugee shopkeepers despite, their poor economic condition, at the same time Radio Kabul has reported that Mr. Taheriari, official of the Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran, has met Etemadi, the Minister of Labor and Social Affairs of the Kabul regime,and donated 4.5 million afghanis for the Women Society and Watan Kindergarten.
      The Afghan Muslim nation know that the Women Society is a part of the Kabul atheist regime in which infamous , women are trained for spying for the KHAD and the Watan Kindergarten also raises orphan, children whose fathers have been killed defending the infidel Kabul regime and the regime intends to raise these children as communists so that they may later serve the corrupt
190
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 ftlllilflllJlKAU               VOL. 5 NO. 1
 communist regime.
      Grabbing money from the Afghan Muslim refugees in Iran and then granting it to the Kabul regime could be considered an' attractive initiative of the Islamic, Republic of Iran but it needs to be explained to us,
                                                                NOVEMBER* DECEMBER
 REPORT: Ayatullah Mohseni, leader of
 HIA( in an exclusive interview regarding the Moscow talks said, the Russians have agreed in the joint Afghan-. Soviet resolution, that an Islamic interim government be established in Afghanistan. He said, "the word 'Islamic'/ in the phrase is all that the mujaheddin were after. The Russians were contented that the future interim government in Afghanistan must be Islamic; this rules out previous claims for communist participation. Being Islamic automatically rejects all non-Islamaic elements".
     He said, as a first step, the Mos.cow negotiations have been useful, but it will be impossible to think that the 13-year-old problem be resolved; overnight. Regarding the Soviet economic situation, he said, ■, poverty prevailed in Russia and their people were hard hit. Mohseni said; "they were preparing food for the delegation, which according to Islamic principles, were unlawful to eat, I only took dry bread but I was also supplied with a samovar (a Russian large Hettle) which I used for preparing tea for myself. Once I asked them to get me some fruit at least, but I was told fruit was not available throughout Russia. I then asked for some onions but my demand was not met on the ^xcuse that Moscow was also short of onions. I told them, "why were they supplying the Kabql regime with arms when they were so pressed not to have onions for eating". Our stay in Moscow resembled those who are fasting. One day they managed to get me some tomatoes which I ate with some bread.
 But pur' other brothers did not mind; they continued having their meals regularly",
                           Payam-e-Mujahed
                                OCTOBER
              14
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Sayyaf, the
 leader of IIA, rejected the UN Secretary General's, invitation of mujaheddin leaders to discuss the formation of transitional government with the communists in Geneva.       \
 * Hekmatyar, the leader of HI A, in a press interview, observed, those who have joined' Najib, Khaliqyar and the present regime and want to create a coalition government with them, are doomed to end like Najib and his followers. He said, perhaps weak persons may be willing for such a work but they, like Najib, will be isolated from the nation.
 * Professor Rubbani, leader of JIA, in an interview with MIDI A observed, enemies of the Afghan jehad want to drive a wedge in mujaheddin ranks by coining the names of "fundamentalists" and "moderates".
              28
 REPORT: Professor Sayyaf, the leader of IIA, while attending the burial
 ceremony, of eight martyrs of district Paghma-n in the cemetery of Hejrat Kalai, near Peshawar, in a speech observed: The Russians martyred 1.5
 millions of our Muslim people and the Americans are also currently supporting the atheist Najib's regime. Russia and the US both are the enemies of Islam and jehad. Presently, efforts are underway from every, nook and corner of the world to carry our case to these enemies of jehad for solution and meetings are held nowadays to solve our
 191
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 MANiHHfll)                      VOL. 5 NO. 1
 problem. It is scheduled that a delegation of mujaheddin go to Moscow, and the IIA stance not to discuss the P Afghan issue with the Russians and Americans is reasonable and fundamental. Because, firstly, the Russians apd Americans want to decide on our future order and we have rejected the same ' proposal since it is not permissible for an infidel to determine the Muslim nation self-determination.
     Secondly, the cruel and criminal Russians have.massacred millions' of our people, demolished, ruined and destroyed our country and, furthermore, have been defeated also. It behove the cruel to compensate for his wrongs and visit the oppressed asking forgiveness, particularly the defeated oppressor. This is beyond a respectable Afghan nation which has . been wronged and oppressed to ask forgiveness from a cruel, tresspasser and non-believer.
     Thirdly, talking with Russians should be conditional, i.e. they ought to acknowledge the mujaheddin government . and should recognize Afghanistan as the mujaheddin's homeland and remove their puppets and then talks may be held on war reparation with them, ' not regarding who should rule in the future.
                                                         Payame-Sehat
                             SERTElYllUvR-OCfOBER
 NEWS ITEMS: The second annual seminar
 of the Health Committees of Mujaheddin from the interior of the country was convened in Peshawar, Pakistan. This seminar was held in the month of Asad (July-August) through the cooperation of health committees of Paktika, Paktia, central parts of Afghanistan, Supervisory Council and South Western region of Afghanistan. In the seminar the health problems of respective areas vf l n discussed. The participants also ^poke about their activities <?f the
 past year. It analysed the work-plan for the coming year and the strategy of health' services in case assistance from friendly foreign organizations are suspended. The seminar was wound up by a reception hosted by health committees and participated by the .Chief of WHO and Peshawar based members of their organization, chief of heads of Union Aid and clelegate of Saudi Arabia Health Committee.
   Payam-e-Shuhada
  SEPTEMBER—OCTOBER
 EDITORIAL: "Political solution or im-
 posed peace?" By looking realistically at the political problems of the world, we shall come to the conclusion that the only hurdle, under the prevalent conditions, in the way of super powers gaining profits and imposition of, their hegemony and global arrogance towards thie oppressed nations is Islam which throughout the world nourishes the enslaved nations, enriches their moral standards and provides them with political awareness and awakening. Nowadays the hegemonic powers, which once feared communism, find, themselve
                      j? -
 safe and secure from this fatal threat due to the valour and bravery of the Muslim mujahed Afghan nation. However they, instead, consider Islam as the basic obstacle in the way of their colonial interests. Hence they are hectically trying to weaken the Islamic development and growth and endeavour to stop the Afghanistan Islamic revolution, from gaining momentum. If presently the two super powers get together and unitedly try to suppress the voice of Islamic revolution in Afghanistan, it is due to their realization of the fact that, with the establishment of an Islamic powerful government in Afghanistan, Islamic movements and upheavals will expand and finally will imperil their global interests shattering their Hopes of hegemony over the fate of the nations. But, as far as
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 HITlIMN
 our oppressed nation and people are concerned no plans or programs, other than their justified wishes, shall be, implemented and threats or pressures of super powers to impose peace and a government of their own choice on our nation will not deviate them from their basic path of Islamic revolution, provided they are united and sink their differences in -the face of ever increasing designs pf the imperialists and their activists to’ Sow the seeds of rifts in their ranks.
                                                              OCTOBER - NOVEMBER
 EDITORIAL: "The Moscow negotiations."
 Reviewing the procedures at the Moscow talks, the editorial says: Though the
 Moscow agreement indicates that a solution to. the Afghan problem~may be sought but this should not be viewed optimistically because the Soviets have assured the Kabul regime rule by supplying them whith arms and ammunitions. It is now time' that by using the opportunity, the mujaheddin leaders get together, forget their controversial problems, 1 reach agreements on matters that are not , yet solved and, by using the opportunity, formulate a unified and cqmprehensive plan for the estab-
  t                           I
 lishment of an Islamic interim government and elect a government urgently to enable us, with the help of God Almighty, to end the 13 year long sufferings of the nation.
              OCTOBER
                 27
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
 HIA, in a function held to condole the death of Eng. Zabiullah 4 October, criticized the present efforts undertaken for the politic&l solution
ttllll)                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 of the Afghanistan problem and said: "Our position is quite clear vis-a-vis these activities. If others are resorting to collusions in; order to assume power, then I tell them that these  efforts will   be doomed . to
 failure. They cannot reach their people by i doing so and the HIA will stand against sUch collusions with all its power. We shall see who can form a government in Afghanistan without the agreement of HIA. If others are not ready for a fair solution, we will be forced to take unilateral stand and decision, the ‘responsibility of which will be on others, They will carry their hopes to the graves for assuming power through the United States and without mujaheddin agreement."
     He said, "now it is not so easy to rule the people of Afghanistan ... We should bear . in .mind the present realities of Afghanistan and then act. Last night too in ,a conference held with Pakistani authorities and members of the mujaheddin organizations on the situation of Afghanistan, I explained our stand in clear terms and^said that we were ready for any cooperation for just and realistic solution of the problem, a solution which ought to guarantee that foreign intervention is halted in the internal affaire of Afghanistan, the Najib government is eliminated and replaced by an interim government in which neither the Najib nor the apostate supporters of the former regimes of Zaher Shah participate and this administration should then be converted to a stable and permanent institution. The interim government should be assigned to preserve security in Afghanistan and hold elections during its mandate
                                       OCTOBER
        :■ 28
 REPORT: Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
 OCTOBER-DECEMBFR. 19‘91 AfRHflNJ[HAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
   HIA, in a Radio interview with ANA said the condition of the Kabul regime is very grave. No body can guarantee its survival. The Afghanistan question cannot be solved without the toppling of the Kabul regime. The regime must be toppled by the mujaheddin.
       He said clearly:  "Neither he
   himself can talk with Najib nor a coalition government could be found with him and neither we can reach an understanding with him about the future of Afghanistan. We are waiting for his toppling by the mujaheddin every minute."         ,          /
       He said, "as far as the HIA is; concerned, I want to make it clear, until an Islamic government is formed by the mujaheddin, we will continue our jehad. The HIA alternative is that the Najib government should be toppled, an interim government should replace that regime and then power transferred to an elected government through elections". He said, if the regime is toppled by any means, including by the HIA, still we will announce an interim government.
       Hekmatyar said, "for * some ("leaders") nothing has been left other than being interviewed by the BBC and making statements to Pakistani newspapers. There is no role left for them in the,Afghanistan events, neither negative nor positive. These elements have no role in bringing about change nor they can prevent changes. I suggest to them they should speak proportionate to their power and capacity and' if they think otherwise, then they ought to go to Afghanistan and stand against Najib.
                                                                NOVEMBER
                 24
<«} REPORT: The HIA jehad command of the
   north-eastern region of Afghanistan has declared regarding the mujaheddin
                       ,
 delegation's visit to Moscow, that the stand of the mujaheddin in the north of the country 'vis-a-vis the talks with Moscow is quite clear. We, are not afraid of negotiations with the Soviets about the solution # of the Afghan problem* Similar talks have taken place in the past and we are not opposed to it. We had reiterated time and again the only sides to the Afghan problem were the mujaheddin and the Russians. But these talks should be conducted with due regard to (1) a unified mujaheddin stand, (2) a venue for the talks other than Moscow and (3) an assurance of the sincerity of Moscow.
     SEPTEMBER
             24
 EDITORIAL: "All out operations: a
 challenge to the conspiracies of the entire imperialist world": After a
 prelude, writes: The eye-catching
 changes in the Soviet Union and our isure jehad victories have attraqted the attention of the imperialist world to the sensitive geophysical situation of Afghanistan, which , has doubled its significance.Apprehending lest Afghanistan turn into a revolutionary linking-line from Saudi Arabia to Bengal,- the. infidel world, first of all, tried to nullify the positive outcome of jehad, through their deceitful plan of political solution, and some of the neighbouring countries for their ominous ends, were encouraged to implement this plan, whereupon propaganda started, visits were scheduled, sessions and journeys initiated. However, the prudent and far-sighted mujaheddin, seeing, through their intrigues, challenged and rejected their plan with all out operations in the country. Thus the mujaheddin once again proved to the entire world that communist conquerers and Red
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991  AFGHAN JIH All                  VOL. 5 NO- 1
 Imperialism are only capable,' of solving their own problems and condemn the meddling of others in whatever shape and form it may be.
  '     '    I-
      These allout decisive operations underway in Kabul, Gard&iz, Nangarhar, Laghman, Logar and other cities have been unleashed as a challenge to the entire imperialist powers bent upon shedding the blood of hundreds of thousands of the martyrs dastardly. These are the very last moments of sacrifice which provide us the opportunity of determining our future with our own hands but unfortunately some pretentious sterile mujahed parties, who neither have any supporters in the nation nor any power-in the jehad field, have joined, hands with them as the, puppets of world imperialism, against the jehad freedom-giving forces, and are bent upon promoting the /dirty mission entrusted to them by the cruel imperialism, proudly. Thus they are blindly    following the wrong path as
 ordered to them by world infidelity. Their mission against the           Muslim
 mujahed    nation   is     doomed.   with
 condemnation, isolation, misery and nothing else.
                   26
 REPORT: In  an interview with the MIDIA
 Professor Rabbani has observed, during the visit of mujaheddin to New York and later to Moscow I shall not be a member Of the    delegation but    another person
 will represent the JIA. He, however, confirmed thr^e other meipbers of the delegation." They are Mujaddedi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. ^
      Professor Rabbani ^aid that he has proposed to the mujaheddin leaders that othei groups i.e. HI A (Hekmatyar) and HIA (Khales) as well as IIA should not be ignored in such cases because their presence and decisions during
 such visits are indispensible, otherwise such exchange of visists will not be fruitful. He said. Presently the mujaheddin leaders are busy discussing to name other members of the delegation and reach consensus with the organizations concerned. He said, what is important for us is the outcome of this visit.. In this sensitive stage of Islamic revolution the mujaheddin leaders must act unitedly. Upity of action, harmonious programs and collective efforts of the entire mujaheddin groups are essential.
 *- Thousands of college and school students and pupils staged a big demonstration against the threatening article published in Kayhan International of Iran calling mujahed brother Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, as state terrorist. They outrightly condemned the statement. Shahadat correspondent from Peshawar reports a large number of college and school students staged t^he demonstration 24 September. Carrying banners and photos of Mujahed Brother Hekmatyar and posters inscribed with slogans such as:      “Down with the
 activists of the Kayhan," We want the workers of the Kayhan to be tried", “Kayhan office must be closed". "Long live Mujahed ^Brother Hekmatyar", "Brother .Hekmatyar*s enemies are jehad enemies," etc. They marched in streets' of the city and assembled in front of Iranian Consulate.
                 29
 REPORT: According to reports mujahed-
 din delegation is proceeding to New York. Besides meeting with a number of foreign delegates and foreign ministers, the delegation will meet the Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris Pankin also. Earlier jehad leaders of the delegation met with Prijne Minister of Pakistan, Nawaz Sharif in' Lahore. The leaders of six jehad organizations, Qutbuddin Helal, Political Chief of HIA, Asif Nawaz JSnjua CommSnder-in-Chief of
195
OCTOBER - DECEMBER». 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 their various problems with the AIG
 Pakistan army/ Asad Durrani, ISI Chief and Foreign Secretary Shahryar Khan were also presept in the meeting. During the two hour meeting solidarity ataong t^e leaders of mujaheddin and political settlement were discussed. It must be mentioned that Sayyed Ahmad Gailani arid Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi were also part of the delegation. But the representatives of HI A (Khales), HIA (Hekmatyar) and IIA were not included in the delegation. According to another report, a mujaheddin delegation will visit Moscow too. Professor Rabbani and Sebghatullah Mujaddedi are also included in this delegation but the time for the delegate's departure is not fixed yet.
                                   OCTOBER
                 1
 REPORT: Teachers belonging to schools .
 run by the dissolved AIG government in a protest ineeting 29 October in Hejrat Klai declared: Until our salaries are
 paid we will not teach. The protest meeting was attended by more than 300 teachers of madrasas and schools. They wanted Professor Sayyaf, Premier of the AIG, to discuss with them' their problems. Professor Sayyaf refrained from attending personally. However the protestors sent two of their envoys to him but he failed to satisfy the protesting teachers. Professor Sayyaf urged them, to attend their duties from 2 October and promised that he will contact the Islamic League about their salaries. But the teachers were repeatedly saying that until their salaries were paid, they would not resume teaching.
     The teachers said, the AIG should attend to its • responsibilities and since 'Professor Sayyaf is the head of the government, he is the number 1 responsible person. , One of the teachers who refused to be named said:
 ■ several days ago they also put'forward
 President Mr. Mujaddedi but they were told by the Secretariat of Mujaddedi that the President cannot attend to such small issues and he is about to leave for Genfeva. He said, he considered this as a plot against the oppressed people of Afghanistan and the responsibility of causing these problems and paving the way for the illiteracy of thousands of students iS with the so called AIG.
                   3
 NEWS ITEMS:      The Soviet Foreign
 Minister, Boris Pankins, during his talks with mujaheddin delegation in New York, presented two proposals for the solution of Afghanistan problem (!) the transitionsal government will be Led by one of mujaheddin leaders but the Prime Minister's post shall be occupied by Fazlulhaq, a non-partisan, or the ex-King Zaher Shah be deputed to. nforrn the interim government. No mention has been made of Najib in the proposals which is indicative of a change in the Soviet diplomacy. So far there has been no reactiori from the mujaheddin leaders to this proposal. However, such proposals have been rejected earlier and mujaheddin are not willing, to see Zaher Shah or the Kabul regime leaders have a share in the interim government.
      "i  '     1 .    ,
 *  Professor Rabbani, leader of JIA has rejected a news item pertaining to the visit of mujaheddin delegation to Moscow led by him saying that, primarily, the mujaheddin had chosen him to lead the delegation but so far no final decision is made. He said that Professor Sayyaf did not take part in the ineeting convened to choose the delegation. Mawlawi Khales abstained from sending his representative and HIA had ' agreed to; send its delegate if the delegation was led by JIA lea-" der.
 * Sardar Mohammad Yakoob, Minister of
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 OllilUINJiHflO                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 States and Frontier regions of Pakistan has said that, in regard to the Afghanistan issue, there is no difference among ISI, the Government and other quarters. On the contrary, their views are identical on this issue and they all want political solution .-to, the problem. In a press interview, he said, the refugees are our brethren who have sOpght refuge due to their faith. The government wants their honorable repatriation and shall never force them to leave because there are problems and difficulties down there.
                                                  6
 NEWS ITEMS:  Eng. Helal,  HI A Chief of
 Political Affairs, in an interview with ANA has said, there is no question Of establishing a joint government with the communists and the atheist regime personnel. The communists and their companions are national traitors and the murderers of 1.5 million Afghans. He' said, the Watan Party is a combination of Khalqi and Parchami parties which are responsible for total destruction of Afghanistan. As long as this party is not toppled, the war flames will continue. He said, the interim government has been dissolved earlier and Mujaddedi cannot talk as President of the AIG, but only as the representative of his own organization. He said, for a jehad leader even to talk of coalition.government, by way of’ reminding, is shameful not to Speak of considering it. *
 * Based on new items, it is said that the Russians.and Americans have jointly proposed that Sebghatullah Mujaddecli replace Najib as President. European diplomats have divulged that Russia and America have assured Mujaddedi On. this point and have proposed to him to head the transitional period instead of Najib and Mu jaddedi has accepted the pffer. Western diplomats believe that Mujaddedi is a person acceptable to US and in the Gulf War he clearly opposed
 Iraq and thus he gained the US support. Likewise, Najib too is acceptable to European, and Western countries. It is said that although the offer to Mu jaddedi for • this post is made by Soviet Foreign Minister, the real motivating force is. the US which•is on good terms with Mujaddedi. It is.also said that .regarding this proposal, prior agreement has been made between James Baker and the Russian quarters in Moscow and, following that. Mujaddedi was summoned to New York.
      Needless to say that the mujaheddin do not want an imperialist imposed government, in Afghanistan. A government elected by the people should rule in Afghanistan.
                  8
 NEWS ITEMS:   Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, the
 Kabul regime Prime Minister, says that for the first time a meeting ainong Kabul government representatives, supporters of ex-King Zaher Shah i and some mujaheddin elements has been arranged. However, in an interview with the BBC, he said that probably the meeting will take place at the end of current month in Geneva and the UM Secretary General Perez de Cuellar will preside. He said, so far participants of the meeting are not identified but. government representative will belong to lower level and personally Najib will not participate. Khaliqyar,who is not member of ruling Watan Party# did not say anything regarding the participation of the Watan Party, members in the meeting, and added that the establishment of interim government will be discussed in the conference.
 * In an interview with BBC regarding the tripartite talks among Kabul regime, moderate mujaheddin groups and supporters of ex-King Zaher Shah of Afghanistan, Qutbuddin Helal, Chief . of the HIA Political Affairs, said, it has been the mujaheddin's earlier
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 position that no negotiations can be carried out with the Najib regime, and in regard - to a coalition interim government or future parleys, too, there cah be no talks- with the Najib government. As such the HI A stance is that no coalition government is possible with the regime personnel and an acceptable interim government to mujaheddin must be established in Afghanistan and afterwards elections should be held. To a question that HI A might be left alone, he said, this has not been the case so far, we are sure that all the mujaheddin are with us and on the same topic, two days earlier, four organizations issued a joint declaration. (EDITOR'S NOTE: for text
 see section on documents).
 - Mr. Jabraeli, spokesman of the ICCA, in an interview to the News Agency corresponent, in regard to Soviet Foreign Minister's latest proposals has observed:   The latest
 Soviet proposal is a futile effort to save the regime and its followers and is a‘ well known line followed by the Kabul regime. Under the prevalent conditions of Afghanistan, accepting Najib, his Watan Party or those favored by the Soviets and the US, such as ex-King Zaher Shah, will keep in-check the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The participation of mujaheddin in the government of Zaher Shah and Khaliqyar will be an outrage against the Afghan people. Zaher Shah and Khaliqyar are heads and tail of the some coin. He added that once the regime is toppled all these conspiracies and designs will be defeated *
                                               10
 NEWS ITEMS: According to the report 25 September from Badr Front, Logar, the mujaheddin of Fatah Division along with local mujaheddin ,carried successful operations on regime positions in Sarobi, Bagrami, Char Asyab and enemy
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 military centers as a result of which the headquarters ^of Spine Thana and Saraki along with their facilities were captured and three other posts were set on fire. During these operations the, tin mine t of Ainak was fired upon by heavy weapons and set ablaze/
 INTERVIEW:   Professor Mohammad Ilias
 Zarah, chief of HIA Education Department in an interview with the Shahadat correspondent hassaid, there are 170,000 students, on the whole, studying in HIA schools and madrasas (religious schools). He said, HIA has 204 elementary, 30 middle and 18 secondary schools. Religious schools and the holy Quran memorizing centers (Darul Heffaz) of Training and Education number 32, total 284 in Peshawar, Schools inside Afghanistan: 226 total: 510.
 REPORT:  Dr.  Aqa Mohammad Lodin, the
 Chief of Internal Medical Unit of the Martyr Abdul Shakoor Hospital, had said in regard to the activities of this hospital:   The Hospital was first
 established with 15 beds and most of its activities were related to first aid help to the Afghan refugees and mujaheddin. Later the number of beds in the hospital increased and specially when the hospital building in Nasrat Maina was completed, both the Martyr Abdul Shakoor Hospital which de^ls only with internal medicine and Martyr Dr. Mohammad Omar Hospital, which deals with \ operations, were transferred . in 1986 to Nasrat Maina from Peshawar.They were merged as Central Hospital in the framework of the Department of Public Health. Right now both hospitals have 200 beds of which 100 beds are for internal medicine and the remaining 100 beds are for surgery, s.
      He said, our hospital is also open for our mujahed and refugee brethren no matter to which organization they may belong and npbody is asked to reveal his organizational connection.* Even
OCTOBER-DECEMBER,
HIJII
VOL.' S NO. 1
  some time our Pakistani brethren are referring to the hospital. Treatment , and medical, examinations are offered free and daily about 150-200 people refer to its polyclinic. About 10 people are hospitalized every day. Also one doctor is on duty for 24 hour and daily between 15-20 people refer to the emergency ward of whom between 5-7 are hospitalized.
        Dr.Weliat Khan Barakat, the Chief of the Operation .Section of Dr. Mohammad Umar Hospital of the HIA, has said that the hospital was first built with 50 beds and right now it has been expanded and has assumed the status' of, a Central Hospital of the HI A w            Doctors are trained for
  operations in this hospital and also students of the medicine from Medical College of the Jehad University are' completing their internship in this hospital. On ordinary occasions, this, hospital -provides beds for 70 patients, however, during emergencies it can expand its capacity. The" hospital carries daily about 10 operations.
  REPORT:    Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
  leader' Of HIA in an official statement issued by the Secretariat of the party,* has re jected the formation of a coalition government in Afghanistan , with the supporters of Kabul regime. The statement says, "whoever joins Najib or Khaiiqyar or other rulers of the present Kabul regime under the name Of a joint or a coalition government, his -end will be similar that of Najib and his friends. The mujaheddin will consider this action as giving up to the national ‘reconciliation.program of Najib
        He has said:    "Weaker groups, who
  do not enjoy any credit with the nation, are forced to resort to others and actually implement their programs and serve as their puppets. However, by
 doing so, they are further losing their credit and prestige with the nation and are further weakened. If the Russians, Americans and other concerned parties think that they can solve the Afghanistan issue without the mujaheddin and with the help of weak parties on the basis of their own wishes and can impose their own order and leaders on the people of Afghanistan, they are mistaken".
      Hekmatyar has said, "without mujaheddin consent, heithr the war could be ended nor security established. The mujaheddin will, lay down their arms when:  (1) Foreign intervention stops,
 (2) the Najib government falls down,
 (3) power is transferred to an interim administration acceptable to the Afghan nation and in which neither friends of Najib, the murderer, nor the leaders and supporters of . corrupt regimes, are included, (4) later elections are held and power is handed over to an Islamic elected government."
      He has said, "real peace can be achieved by such arrangements; Everyone can start war but those who are involved in the war can stop it; those who are not involved in the war cannot have a role in bringing about peace."
                  15
 REPORT: During an obituary meeting 14
 October for Engineer Zabihullah in Nusrat Mainah of Peshawar, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA observed, let us come to a compromise on the establishment of a future order, in Afghanistan. He added, the delegation which talks to the Russians must be so strong that it should be able to implement whatever it undertakes in the framework of agreement; henceforth, without mujaheddin's agreement, to rule Afghanistan is difficult. Hekmatyar said, as per Moscow and Washington signal, a conference is convened in a European country with a view to
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
     conciliate the nationalists with communists and organize a coalition front between themselves.
          He said, if there - is no security in Afghanistan there cannot be peace in Pakistan,, Iran and Russia too. We are waiting for moments of some great events heralding the toppling of the Kabul regime.
    N •        ■            -)   *     '
     * Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the Amir of JI has said in Quetta, the US will fail in its objectives in Afghanistan. The way the Russians were defeated, the Americans are also no match for the Afghans. He said, it is only the mujaheddin who have the right to rule Afghanistan, the American lackeys have no right to do so. He said, the mujaheddin are the winners of a long drawn historical war and humbled a super power but presently the United States is trying to frustrate mujaheddin's efforts.
                       17
     EDITORIAL:   "Internal and external
     reaction to all out operations in the country":  The apprehension from an
     Islamic mujaheddin government prompted the atheistic world ' to transfer this problem, with the help of some religion-bargainers, from the bunkers to the west and thus want to exchange the honor, gained at the cost of blood, for the imported game of political solution. The enemies of Islam in the name of "war boredom" (exhaustion) of the Afghan mujahed nation find moments of peace and confidence for themselves under the cover of conciliation and
          N         I             '
* security. But we saw that world atheism, including its puppets, were victims of wishful thinking because not only the jehad trenches got hotter thain before but educated psudo-mujaheddin also surfaced during the 13 years of jehad to the mujahed nation. The feeling of inferiority complek among the imperialist trained nivices was so severe and striking to the mujahed
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 nation of Afghanistan that one of them believes that he is bored to death because of interference in the Afghan affairs to the extent that he wants to leave Pakistan. But he ought to know that the real meddlers are the Russian's and Americans who are depriving the Muslim Afghan nation of their right to self-determination and in this crime this person is playing the role of main
 villain.                    1
       . ' . \ ;
      Freedom and self-determination of Afghanistan is an issue concerning the Afghan mujahed nation itself and without them no one is entitled to carry it along with him to Europe and US as a co-passenger. Presently,' as a lasting reality of Muslim mujaheddin sacrifice, peace will come from^the very jehad bunkers very soon.
 NEWS ITEMS: The leader and President of Peshawar based dissolved government, in an interview, observed that he is bored to death by Pakistan government interference in the Afghan affairs and, due to that, most probably, will be leaving for Afghanistan in the near future. Mujaddedi also said that from Afghanistan he will participate in Geneva conference, co-sponsored by the Khaliqyar government, followers of Zaher Shah and mujaddedi's supporters.
                 20
 REPORT:  Professor Abd| Rab Rasool
 Sayyaf, leader of IIA, while rejecting the talks between mujaheddin delegation and Russians, said such, talks would be meaningful only when Russia sever her relations with Kabul regime and recognize the mujaheddin government officially. He said the current talks are meant for the- creation of an interim government in Kabul. Professor Sayyaf said in case of mujaheddin holding talks with the Soviets, the Russian stance must be known whethef' they. are representing the communist Kabul government or talking with
00369116
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfGIIANJlHAfl                 VOL.  5 NO. 1
 mujaheddin on their own. Referring to the first case. Professor Sayyaf said, "this will be indirect talks with Kabul government which mujaheddin haVe time and again rejected and, in the second case, where mujaheddin will be having face-to-face talks with the Russians this boils down to conceding the right of interference in our internal affairs to the Russians.
      Professor Sayyaf added, in case the mujaheddin are ready to accept this insulting condition, then what was the necessity of rendering these sacrifices. He said, if some people say that they are talking to Russians regarding the „future relationship, they, are committing "gross mistake, because/ even at present, the Russians are providing assistance to the Kabul regime." He said, there is no such precedence in history where an oppressed people, even after defeating the oppressor, ask forgiveness. He said, we shall continue our jehad to the last.
                  22
 MESSAGE: Hekmatyar, the HI A leader, in
 a message sent from the interior of Afghanistan, regarding the baseless propaganda of a so-called mujahed leader against the brotherly nation of Pakistan, has observed:  Those who are
 passing remarks against Pakistan are not representing the Afghan nation and mujaheddin of Afghanistan and we deplore such statements of these persons.
      In his message, issued by the HIA Secretariat, ' Brother Hekmatyar has said, "we are indebted to the Pakistani nation and the Afghan nation shall never forget their brotherly assistance" . He added, Pakistan has never interfered in our affairs but has always appreciated the decisions of the Afghans. Such remarks belong to those who have lost hope in their nation and
                                                                                                   201
 mujaheddin, (this is a reference to AIG President Mujaddedi's remarks that he was fed-up of Pakistani interference and thus would rather go to Afghanistan). Hekmatyar said that the entire nation feel saddened because of these remarks. He has said, such ^ persons in case of departure from Pakistan ought to go to England, not Afghanistan since their Visit to Afghanistan is difficult; the Afghan nation is neither reconciled with Najib nor prepared for a coalition governs
      n
 ment. Those who talk of coalition government with Najib or Khaliqyar do not wish the establishment of an Islamic government by the mujaheddin. Hekmatyar said, those who are making, unwanted and. negative propaganda against our jehad, mujaheddin and jehad supporters, perhaps, want to please the Americans and Russians to attain their selfish goals. However such efforts are doomed. They must learn a lesson from the bitter experiences of Najib because he also wanted to rule our nation on borrowed crutches.
                                                   24
 REPORT: Najmuddin Stori, Chairman of the coordination committee of HIA, in an interview with the Shahadat newspaper has said:   "I hope elections will be
 completed until tfye beginning of the month of Qaos (November-December) for the Central Council of HIA."
      Giving a brief history of elections within the ranks of HIA, he said, the HIA was founded 2 April 1969. The first elections of the party was held in 1971 in the Mosque of Polytechnicai Institute in Kabul after the death of Abdul Rahim Niazi in which a 5-member leadership council was elected. Martyr Eng. Habibur Rahman, Martyr Saifuddin Nasratyar, Martyr Ghulam Rabbani Atish and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar were elected for the leadership council.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flllilMN JIHflfi
         ¥he second elections were held in 1975 after the Sorkh Road, Batikot, Laghman, Panjsher, and Paktika uprising and operations. When the party members had to seek refuge in Pakistan and, because of these operations, disputes emerged among them, it was finally decided that elections should be held among party members.                ’
         The third elections were held in 1978 after the dissolution .of the Harak'at-e-Enqelab-e -Islami , comprizing th.e Hezb and Jamiat-e-Islami. The Hezb was forced to resort to elections < for the sake of putting the house of the party in order.
         In regard to the method of voting for the leader and -members of the Central Council of HI A, he said, "Article 7 of the Charter of HI A has allowed two methods for the election of the leader of the party:   (a) The leader
    of the party could be elected through secret, free and direct ballots of the organs of the party and (b) the leader of the party could be elected through secret, free and direct ballots of the
 *     •' i -
    members and the organs of the party. However, in regard to the election of the members of the Central Council of the party both the organs and members of the party have to cast their secret, free and direct votes."
 ^       He   said,   "during the present
    process of elections for the leader
 >
                                                                                          VOL. 5 NO. 1
 and members of the Central Council of the party, both the members and organs of HIA are voting. For the leadership of the party no specific person has been named. However, for the membership of the Central Council names ( of candidates have been given to all the districts."
      In answer to a question as to why candidates are not named for leadership position .he said, "for the election of the leader of the HIA the tradition has been that no specific individuals are named. In the current rounds of elefa-tions, on the basis of an agreement reached by the Executive Council and Coordination Council; for the election of the leader of the party no specific person has been named and on the basis of the qualifications set forth for the leader of party, both the members and organs of the patty are allowed to elect a person for the leadership position."
      He said, "the election process is continuing so far in a normal manner and, thank God, no difficulty has emerged. Voting has been completed among the refugees of the NWFP for the election of*, the leader and most of the work for the election of the members of the Central Committee has also beeh completed. In the Baluchistan province, too, elections for the leader of the party have been completed.However, work for electing members of the Central Council is in progress and it is hoped it will be completed within two weeks. He said we hope these elections will be held in two weeks time. In the refugee camps in Karachi of the Sindh province elections for the leader and Central Council pf HIA have already taken place. Inside Afghanistan Supervisory delegations have been sent to all parts of the country and elections are in progress. In Bamian and Samangan provinces election have been completed and results have been returned to the office of Coordination.
202
         The fourth term of elections were held in. 1986. These elections were actually to be held several years ago but due to the formation: of the Islamic Alliance of Afghanistan Mujaheddin in which the HIA also was merged for the sake of unity, elections were postponed. However, unfortunately the alliance did not last and was dissolved after three years, after which the HIA started party elections 14 February, and 1986 and completed it by the half of 1987.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 fllGlll
                   27
 EDITORIAL:  "Important   points, for the-
 consideration, of delegation going to Moscdw". The editorial considers the'
               :I
 mujaheddin's trip to Moscow in the interest of jehad because the opposite side of mujaheddin is the Russians. However, it points to the following issues which ought to be, taken into consideration by the Afghan delegation:
      The jehad delegation before departure should work out a joint alternative based on consultation with mujaheddin organizations. These alternatives should be so comprehensive to include all the principles and details. Also the government of Russia should not be given opportunity to make the issue of POWs as the main topic of negotiations and if this problem for them is of paramount importance they should discuss it with the leadership of jehadic organization and should take the trouble of travelling to the head-quarters of jehad. Thi^ wiil further strengthen the mujaheddin position at international level.
      .            'i                    :
               _,            t      i    ,
      The jehad delegation should stress to the Russians to ^heed their unforgiveable sins which they have cbmmitted against the Afghan people and stop supporting the puppet regime and should bear responsibility for destructions in Afghanistan, just as it has been the case with the communist leadership in Russia for Russian miseries, and the issue of war reparations should be discussed with them. Because, if Iraq can give the damages of war to Kuwait, Russia should in no way ignore this issue and should not be allowed to do so.
      The Afghan delegation should speak from the position of a Victor in history in such a manner that the Russians,' who have been defeated, would feel its humiliation ...
[KAO                    VOL.  5  no. 1
      Thus the talks between v the mujaheddin and Russians ought to create 1 fear among the ranks of the Kabul regime. This could be achieved if we recognized our jehadic position and took a decisive stand coupled with the morale of a victor and refrain from flexibility and belittling our stand.
                 29
 REPORT: The Jang•newpaper of Rawalpin-
 di, quoting authoritative sources, writes that the Russian leaders have told international sources that the Moscow talks will yield no fruits withouht the participation of HIA and ; JIA. These sources also say that Russian leaders, after grasping the power of HIA and JIA, have been insisting on their participation-.
      According to' ' news. Professor Sebghatullah Mujaddedi who has come to know about this Russian poistion, insists that he should take part in the talks as the leader of the mujaheddin interim government, otherwise he will not join the delegation and only will send his representative.
      On the other hand, this has also become clear that the Afghan jehad organizations have agreed that Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani ought to lead the delegation.                       '
                 31
 INTERVIEW:  Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,
 leader of HIA, in answer to a question put forward by the reporter of Shahadat newspaper tha,t the Russians have said that without the participation of' HIA delegation in the Afghan mujaheddin talks with the Russians the talks will not be positive has said:  It is quite
 understandable why Moscow is insisting on the participation of HIA representative. Now that we have reached a, point when all the realities are to be ^ heeded and without heeding to realism, nothing could be achieved, the Russians
203
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOU 5 NO. 1
ought to recognize the strong and effective parties of the mujaheddin and should reach an understanding with them as they will be able to solve the Afghan issue only through them. It is not important that a delegation ought to go to Russia and an understanding ought to be reached. It should be, on the other hand, understood who is going to implement these agreements? It is clear that for the implementation of an agreement those who are strong and supported by the nation are to be taken into account. Without the participation of HiA these talks will have no value. Who is going to implement these agreements on behalf of the mujaheddin? It       quite - clear that even the
Russians wanted to hold talks only with the HIA and have officially invited the HIA to send a delegation to ^Moscow to talk with the Russian President. However, due to a common mujaheddin position, the venue of talks.acceptable to mujaheddin and that we must be sure that the Russians are truly desirous of solving the Afghanistan issue with the mujaheddin,, we turned down this offer. High-ranking Russian delegations have coma several times and have discussed their issues with the HIA and this is the reason why Moscow is insisting on the participation of the HIA representative in the talks.
      ... V' '      ■'
                                                                        We have announced that we are in
agreement with the talks in principle, and if a delegation prefers to go to Moscow, we will wait and see what results are going to" be achieved from these talks. If we found out that the talks have yielded positive results and our position is accommodated in the future also, then we will participate in the future rounds of talks.r
♦Fatima Yasser, the Chairperson of the Organization of Islamic Women in interview with the Shahadat correspondence has said:
                                                                        Fiftytiye madrasas were active
 under the supervision of the Organization of Islamic Women. Last year a number of madrasas in far reaching refugee camps were closed down temporarily due to financial difficulties. Altogether 500 of our sisters are working for these schools in which 7j000 students have been offered education. She said the Organization of Islamic Women in addition to' organizing schools., has a center for attending to the problems of the families of the martyrs of the war, cottage industry, public relations, etc.
      She said the organization ha$ two publications:    Payam-e-Zan-e-Mosalman
 and Nesa.
      She said, we are facing real problems for not having experienced members committed to Islamic principles and well -educated. From time to time there are a number of people who offer their services but we have not been able to study their personalities and future plans carefully and after a while they leave for the West.
      She' said other organizations mostly do not have institutions for offering Services ' to the women community and if one or two organizations have such institutions, they are run by men and through assistance by foreign organizations. Some mujaheddin organizations have institutions for running women affairs only by name.
      In regard to the role of - women in the political and social life of Afghanistan after the success of Islamic revolution she said, during the years of war they have undergone many troubles and ups and down and now they have the right to play ,an active role in the political and social life of Afghanistan. They have the right to be elected and elect, they have the. right to. teach and to be taught and they have the right to defend their
204
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Islamic right^ and. they have the right to ask for the rights given to them by Almighty God and His Prophet. In the future there should be a Ministry for managing women affairs so that women may be able to work for the society without mixing with men and this will be the only way for preyenting men and women working together.
                                                                 NOVEMBER
                 3
 REPORT: Mawlawi Khales, leader of the
 HIA, in an interview with the NWT correspondent said, 'he or any other leader was not under pressure to join the talks in Moscow. He said, such rumors are, part of colonial plots to create rift between the mujaheddin and Pakistan. He said, the recent meeting between the mujaheddin and Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minis/ter of Pakistan, was useful and friendly.
                 5
 REPORT^ ANA reports that the ARIANA offide   for    reconstruction of
 Afghanistan was recently opened by Dr. Farooq Azam in Peshawar. A large number of ulama, mujaheddin and others attended the opening ceremony which began with the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran and prayers for Afghanistan.
     Dr. Azam, an expert in economics and agriculture, has attained substantial experience in agriculture, irrigation and housing while working in several Asian and African countries. The ARIANA office will work in following fields:
 1, Supply and rehabilitation of livestock, agriculture, canals, . Karezes, buildings, health, light industry, etc.
 2. Overcoming the political and social difficulties and drafting of a consti-
 tution for future Afghanistan.
 3. Finding ways for the establishment of peace and tranquility in Islamic Afghanistan.
 4.   Improvement and development of education and research in ' Islamic jurisprudence,
 5.  Helping tefugee resettlement.
                   7
 REPORT: While the HIA had boycotted the Moscow talks, a Russian senior delegation met Erig. Hekmatyar inside Afghanistan. He. told the delegation, in response to the exchange of POWs, which recently took place in Islamabad, Moscow has not yet released even five of our , prisoners. Regarding war reparations by the Soviet Union, he said it was the legitimate right of the people of Afghanistan to make this demand. About a government headed by the former King he said, he will not accept his rule even for a moment. He said, the Afghan problem should be solved through direct talks with the Russians and not in the framework of understanding between Moscow and Washington.
      Regarding the boycott of the Moscow negotiations, Hekmatyar said, "we have the impression that Moscow, in its talks with the mujaheddin, is still not sincere", in answer to a question, he said Najib can only make use of the general amnesty offer, when he proves that he has repented from his deeds. He said, it .is easy for Yeltsin to ta^e measures for solving the Afghan issue.
      Regarding a Russian concern bver the multiplicity, of mujaheddin parties, he observed, "our main problem is foreign intervention,' not the multiplicity of mujaheddin parties. "We strongly oppose the Soviet<-US talks on ^ the Afghan problem. We reject coalition
205
OCTOBER-DECEMBERf 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 with the Kabul regime. We have pardoned tljose who defect to us and express repentance of their past deeds", he said. Regarding the future leadership in Afghanistan Hekmatyar said, "we will never accept leaderships imposed from outside, because in Islam this rigjht has been specifically given to the Muslims".
                                                12
 EDITORIAL: " Enemy's misuse, of current
 political efforts." The editorial, considering present political efforts as1a . means for preventing the armed jehad writes: "... But fortunately because of the firm stand taken by the Islamic movement, the tight siege around the puppet Najib regime and jehad operations throughout the country, th^ issue of establishing an Islamic government will not be - left in t:he hands of political businessmen., So, as heirs to the     1.5   million martyrs, let   us
 strengthen the jehad fronts further and, instead of awaiting the results of the Moscow and Washington talks, let us go ahead        with the jehad and  by
 tightening the siege around Kabul and. other large cities, force the communist lackeys to surrender. This will be a logical step. Furthermore, as apparent from the trend of the jehad, the final ,mujaheddin victory is not for away."
      Let the enemies / of Islam and of the mujaheddin get closer together and warm up the political gatherings of the West in the name of the pro-western elements, the nationalists and\those of the King".
                                                14
 REPORT: TASS reports the Soviet Foreign Minister is seeking the mujaheddin agreement for a step-by-step ceasefire with international control and free elections. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the mujaheddin delegation said, Moscow should apologize for its 9-year military intervention in Afghanistan/
 and participate in the reconstruction of the country. The Soviet Foreign Minister told reporters, Moscow does not insist on any particular person to head the government prior to elections. This is apparently an indication that Najib should step down. Prof. Rabbani told a Soviet independent news agency, four conditions were proposed for ceasefire during the negotiations: (1)
 The' Soviet Union must repent its mistakes in Afghanistan, (2) stop its support of the Kabul regime* (3) be prepared for cooperation in practical terms and (4) promise that the Afghanistan invasion will not be repeated.
                                                 17
 REPORT:  The following is a report
 published in .the Kabul" magazine, Jawanan-e-Emroz, (Today's Youth) which reflects the pitiful economic and. social conditions in Kabul:
     'It is now 13 years that the people of Afghanistan are quitely suffering through the use of various types of weaponry imposed• upon them by foreign forces or pro-foreign Afghans alike.
     Governments come and go, the ministers are shuffled every now and.-again like chessmen, but without leaving the chessboard. The deputy ministers take the place of ministers and vice versa but nobody is prepared to vacate his place for the right person. It looks as though this whole nation has been facing a personnel crisis. The inefficient and the useless are "punished" - but by promoting them to a higher position.
     The difficult living conditions of the people are taken for granted; the fall of rockets and the loss of people, provide routine news for radio broadcasts; the ques formed at the bakeries for a loaf of bread apparently
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   DfGIIANJfHflO                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 pass un-not iced'.
      •The, Soviet armed aggression of Afghanistan, which culminated in the loss and displacement of millions of Afghans, should have taught a lesson to our rulers long ago to liberate the •nation, particularly in the economic field from Soviet dependency. They should have attempted to remove all obstacles in order to attrack economic assistance form Iran, China, Turkey and even Pakistan.
       The people are getting a shiver with even the thought of winter drawing nearer; the roads are empty- of vehicles because of the scarcity of fuel. The city transport situation has led the Kabul citizens to the explosion point. The magazine then quotes prices for some consumer goods as follows:
    A loaf of bread:  (100 grams) Afs.50
 -  Flour: Afs. 2,000 per seer (7 Kgs)
 -  Rice: Afs. 4,000 per seer,
 -  Ghee: Afs. 1,000 per kilo,
 -  Diesel or kerosene over Afs. 100,000
    per barrel.
       The afghani has totally lost its value in face of dollar and rupees.
       It then says, the people do not known whom to complain to about their fear of. starvation during the winter months* The people are moving towards gradual death. The ministers are just deceiving the nation with false promises. No one is thejre to tell the people whether the government has any plans for the winter.
       "There is talk of vast government plans, the same as the previous years, but nobody is 'Sure whether these will be carried out. During the last 13 years the nation has got used to false commitments and empty words, if the fate of the plans are the same as the previous years, then may God help the
                                                                                                        207
 poor people.
                  19
 REPORT: In an interview with the Shaba-dab correspondent* Eng. Hekmatyar has said, during the Moscow talks, the Rus-' sians were trying to act as mediators and pave the way for direct talks between the Kabul puppet regime and the mujaheddin. He said, if the Russians are of the opinion to establish a permanent instead of an .interim government in Afghanistan, it will never be acceptable to the mujaheddin.    ,
      Hekmatyar said, he did not believe the Russians would give an assurance to the world that they,are forsaking Najib for cooperation with the mujaheddin. He said, Iran should not have committed the blunder of sending a separate delegation to the Moscow negotiations, which caused, a split in the mujaheddin ^tand in the talks. Hekmatyar added, the mujaheddin demand for Russian cooperation in the reconstruction of Afghanistan indicates the weakness, of the mujaheddin delegation, Hekmatyar said, "I do not know why our friends wanted to conduct talks' with the Russians so hurriedly. If the nationalists or pro-westerners compromise with Najib and form a coalition with him, they will no doubt be isolated from the nation".
 * Leaders of the mujaheddin organizations have expressed their opinions regarding the -result of the Moscow talks as follows:                  ”
    Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani:       The
 result of the talks were more useful to the mujaheddin than predicted.
 - Prof. Sayyaf: The Islamic government that Moscow wants, will definitely be .^ another puppet regime.
 - Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohajnmadi: The ^
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   HIGIIANJflMIl                   VOL- 5 NO- 1
Moscow talks were a victory for the mujaheddin.
                            . \ • )
-  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi:   The Moscow
negotiations are yet another step forward towards peace in Afghanistan.
-  Qazi Weqad:  In the talks the right
to form the interim government was given to the mujaheddin.
    Rehmatullah Murtazavi:   Out J talks
with the Russians were in relation to the Islamic interim government.
                   21
REPORT:   In an interview with ANA
Hekmatyar, the leader of the HIA, stated, the Kabul regime is in extreme despair; their differences have grown more serious; hopes from the regime supporters have all ended and Najib is under strong pressure. He added, Na jib must adopt A sensible way if he wants to come out of this state of affairs# and should not play with the lives Of others.
     Hekmatyar said, Najib is trying to indicate that he has no other way out than to form a kind of coalition with pro-western elements wiothout transferring power to another government. He said, they are trying to show as if plenty has been done to this end, including sending of a mission to Zaher Shah, but nobody dare step forward; most of them think this is not the way to seek a solution; the latest mujaheddin Operations have shaken the enemy strongly.
     Regarding the states under the Soviet domination and the US warning to Lybia, Hekmatyar said, "we will support Islamic movements anywhere in the
REPORT:  Eng.  Hekmatyar, leader of the
HIA, told a Friday congregation at the
                                                                                                         208
 Mosque in Nasrat Maina near Peshawar, Moscow and Washington have agreed to create a pro-western government in Af-V ghanistan by establishing a coalition government between them and communists. He said, the danger lies in the fact that our leaders are yearning to become president and premiers prior to the elections. He said, the Russians nevefr supplied the Kabul regime with as much arms as they are , doing now. "The Azarbaejan delegation told me today that they are going to obtain their independence and this is a lesson which they learnt from us. He said, whatever difficult days the Russians are going through today is the result of the wrongs they did to the Afghan oppressed peopele. "I am awaiting a similar fate for the Americans," he said.
      Hekmatyar said, "those who wish to come to power through secret talks with Na jib and his colleagues in New Delhi, Meshed, Geneva or Kabul, they are in fact declaring war on all the others. Nations of this region should at least try that a strong and elected government. is established in Afghanistan which may enjoy the support of the entire Afghan people so peace and tranquility may return to the region". «
                 26
 NEWS ITEMS:  Over  130,000 Afghan and
 Pakistani students in the Soviet Urtion-moSt of them married to Russian girls-are said to be taking permanent residency there after the recent changes in the Soviet Union. Of these about 10,000 belong to Pakistani frontier regions and the remaining 120,000 are Afghan nationals.
 * Engineer Aziz Osmani, an officer of the IRC, was killed by unidentified gunmen 25 November. The incident took place at about 8:30 a.m. when he had nearly reached his Office in University
OCTOBER-DECEMBER 9 1991 flfGllilN ill MID               VOL- 5 NO- 1
 Town, Peshawar. The guards of his office were also shot at by the gunmen in order to secure their escape. Eyewitnesses said Engineer Aziz had received about 30 shots but his driver was unhurt.
                                                 29
 REPORT: Hekmatyar, leader  of HIA, told
 foreign §nd local reporters 26 November "as long as one of our mujaheddin is held captive by the Kabul regime, the release of Russian POWs will not be possible". He said, our expectations from the people of Iran are many and we expect Iran will respect out national interests.
            . -v       ■
      Hekmatyar told reporters, instead of improving their relations with the Afghan people and making good for their past deeds, the Russians are unfortunately siding with the US. He said, "we want direct talks with Moscow but such negotiations will only be effective when Moscow unconditionally gives up the Kabul regime".
 *  Mawlawi Sameullah, ’ leader of the Jamaat-al-Daawat, met Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, 27 November to discuss with him the situation in Kunar. They both urged that* the "Peace Committee" formed earlier should further be strengthened to enable it to take necessary measures for the control of- the province. They also agreed to establish joint administration to prevent the recurrence of unwarranted incidents in the future.
 *    Victor Yakonin, the Soviet Ambassador in Islamabad, met with Hekmatyar at his home in Peshawar 27 November. „ Talks between the two centered on the release of Soviet POWs. Hekmatyar told the Soviet Ambassador that the number of mujaheddin-prisoners with the Kabul regime and the Soviet Union was by far greater than the Russian POWs with the mujaheddin. "Tne
 Soviet v authorities" he said, "sho-uld publish their names before we can disclose those of the Soviet POWs".
                               DECEMBER
                                        1
 NEWS ITEMS: Talks between mujaheddin
 organizations on the peaceful solution of Afghan issue are continuing in Peshawar for some days. Leaders of three important and influential mujaheddin organizations met in Peshawar 30 November. They were Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of HEIA.        . . '
     It is said, the three agreed on certain important points. Though these were not disclosed, it is said if practical steps are taken in regard to those agreements, it will be possible for the HIA also to .take part in the forthcoming discussions with Moscow in relation to a political settlement of the Afghan question. There was growing concern in the meeting, however, for the formation of a multitude of small groups which are being bribed by some elements for achieving their own ends.
 * Major Noorullah was seriously wounded in front of his office by some gunmen 29,November. Eye-witness reports indicate that the assailants got away unchecked. Doctors at the Lady Reading Hospital in Peshawar said Major Noorullah was out of danger. He was a resident of Khogyani, Nangarhar, and his father was an influential tribal chieftain. Major Noorullah was on the teaching staff Of the Military Academy in Kabul and between 1981 and 1986 he .published a journal- the Ittehad-e-Mashriqi, in Peshawar. He was pro-Zaher Shah and in his writings strongly supported nis return.
                     - • ». . •
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AflillANJIHAD                        VOL. 5 NO.  1
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Rabbani, leader of
 JIA, denied reports published in a section of the press about a secret deal between Iran and the Kabul regime to allow Iran to air drop in central Afghanistan and supply fuel to the Kabul regime, reports MIDIA. Iranian Embassy officials in Islamabad have assured Rabbani that the measure has been taken at the request of mujaheddin commanders. The officials denied reports of assistance to the Kabul regime saying that this was never done before and shall never be done in the future.
      Observers believe, however, *it will not be possible for Iran to send aircraft inside the .Afghan territory for dropping supplies without the consent of the Kabul regime.
 * Reliable source’s say that Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, visited the US for "medical treatment" sometime ago. Upon return from the US, he had a stopover in Rome 25 November. The report adds that during his stay in Rome he met the former Afghan Monarch, Zaher Shah, and had. assured the latter if he returned to Afghanistan he would receive a warm welcome and support from the nationalists.
                                                   5
 REPORTS In a seminar held on the settlement of the Afghan issue 3 December, Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, stated the smaller parties could easily become tools in alien hand. "We will never take part in a-council which is based on equal footing and will never accept a non-Islamic party in the political future of Afghanistan, "he said, adding^ the parties should all assure the civil servants in the Najib regime that during the mujaheddin rule they would not be held responsible and
 the parties must make commitments they would not use arms against each other.
      Hekmatyar said, Najib should be toppled ^ through joint mujaheddin operations and replaced by a short-term interim set-up for airranging general elections for a permanent government.
                   8
 REPORT: Ayatullah Saddeqi, he£d of an
 authoritative HWIA delegation together with Karim Khalili, HWIA speaker, met Hekmatyar at his residence. 5 December. During the meeting, Ayatullah Saddeqi, founding member of the HWIA, furnished necessary, explanations on' decisions taken at the general congress of Hv/lA and the pitiful situation in the central regions of the country.
      Khalili, while explaining the political objectives of his party, urged political and ideological independence of mujaheddin organisations and >rejected intervention by alien powers. ’Khalili expressed the hope that, despite enemy plots and intrigues, unity and harmony among the mujaheddin organizations may be strengthened. Brother Hekmatyar stated, "if we choose ’elections' as the only way for solving the issue, we will.have made, the best choice. As a result of elections we will be able to establish a strong Islamic government enjoying the support of the entire nation. In our opinion the President should be elected first, followed by elections for the parliament".
      "We have repeatedly stated that the future parliament should be the true representative of the nation. In our opinion the interim government,' which is to precede elections, should be a .transitional government in all respects and void of all those involved in the conflict. If we take the initiative in our own hands and prevent all kinds of interventions, there will
210
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 flffillllN JfHWI               VOL-  5 NO- 1
 be no room for the US or Soviet plots or conspiracies".
      Hekmatyar considered very useful the establishment of the ‘'Leadership Council" and invited leaders of the HWIA to join the Council for further strengthening unity and alliance among the mujaheddin ranks.
                                                  NOVEMBER
   :         7
NEWS ITEMS: The magazine says despite,
the fact that the people of Afghanistan are living as refugees» at present a large number of newspapers arid periodicals are being published by the jehad . organizations as well as organizations dealing with social and academic affairs in Pakistan, Iran and Western countries and our scholars have rendered praise-worthy services in this connection. of course, such activities# undertaken to inform the world about the conditions of Afghanistan and also enlighten our own people, are not. only welcomed and appreciated by us alone but every one of our citizens also welcomes them. The WAFA# by realizing this responsibility# has decided to embark on fhis new publication under the name of WAFA. The . newspaper has hoped for the cooperation of scholars and writers and has said this will be an independerit and impartial newspaper and that it .does not intend to attack individuals or groups and rilso does not wish to be attacked by others. We. want.' to present the facts as they are. We specially want to give, the news about the situation in our devastated country which has been the birth place of greatest personalities of the world, such as scholars# literary figures and statesmen and has now been converted into ruins as a result of Russian aggression
and thoughtlessness of its puppets.
     "We hope that with the help of Almighty God and efforts Of the Sincere and faithful Citizens of Afghanistan this country will become free arid rebuilt and revive its grandeur and its opressed people, who have lost 1.5 million' of its members as martyrs and more than five million of them are living in a state of destitute in foreign countries, will be able to form an Islamic government and realize their long cherished hopes and peace .arid security will return to our country# our people will live in an atmosphere of sincerity and truthfulness without any religious# tribal# linguistic and racial discrimination and join hands for rebuilding our beloved country.
                23
REPORT: The WUFA held a one-day seminar 8 November under the title of "changes in Afghan cultural values and its reshaping." The seminar was held at the office of WUFA and attended by a number of Afghan and Pakistani writers arid scholars. After the recitation of verses from the Holy Quran, Prof# Rasool Amin, President of WUFA, in an opening speech said,. our current seminar-is of special importance due to its moral values because we have to find out what the Afghan refugees have learnt during t,he long period of their exile in Afghanistan and , Pakistan or Other, societies and what things have they forgotten., what the Pakistanis have learnt from us arid what have we learnt frOm them.
 j Fazlul Rahim# Pakistani scholar in his paper said:    "The Afghan social
culture has three main bases:      (1)
Pashtoonwalai (Afghanism) (2) Islam# (3) Tribalism.. In Afghanistari the three are dealt with as one component and treating them as one is very important and essential fOr their social activi-

   ,
211
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO.
 ties and unity ... It was Islam and Afghanism which together countered Leninism after the 1978 communist coup and it was finally able to defeat Leninism. If there was no Islam and Afghanism together the fate of the Afghan nation would have been the same as that of the Central Asian Republics.
      Habibtiilali Rafi in his article threw light on the changes in the Afghan cultural values and behaviour. He enumerated the. factors which have Caused these changes. In addition to the positive impacts on the Afghan culture as a result of Afghan migration, he also pointed to negative impacts of migration on genuine Afghan traditions.
      Hakim Taniwal in his article said, "our refugees came to a country with a more advanced economic relationship, with 1esser individuiaism and, therefore they are becoming ‘alien to their tribal habits. He added; "more than anything else, it is important that the two nations and two cultures face each other and by this, they have achieved some useful results."
                         SEPTEMBER
                                  6
 EDITORIAL:  "Islamic  movement  and  in-
 effective elements":  Western factiona
 media and diplomats, true to their long term objectives and interests, have coined their special terminology such as Islamic fundamentalists, Muslim
 extremists, retrogressives, moderates and Muslim occidentalists. Using this as leverage, they drove the Muslim nuclei and groups more towards separate regions and Muslim political groups and Muslim x parties knowingly or unknowingly think they fall in line with
 what the westerners have branded them. Whereas,. in principle there are two kinds of Muslims in Islamic culture, i.e. the committed and non-committed Muslims. About the Afghan jehad, the editorial terms the * Western diplomacy as imperialistic and writes, in as much as the Western hypocritical diplomacy
 has proved instrumental in the disintegration of. mu jaheddin • into multifarious parties and wings, as claimed by the Russian puppets in Kabul, and have been incapable of defeating the internal adversary and sterilizing the negative forces, despite their defeating of international communism. This western imported division, . which is of no. credibility in the Islamic culturail domain and stands rejected in the Islamic view, has virtually contributed to animosity among the Muslim brethren and internal commotion. Obviously the Islamic resistance ought to be cleared of elements having weak character and the pro-Westerners should be kept at bay from making in-roads in the rank and file of revolution.

212
y
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
        CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
OCTOBER — DECEMBER
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991        AM JIHAD                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
OCTOBER - DECEMBER 19 91
                                   OCTOBER
     The Afghan mujaheddin launched massive attacks on Gardaiz, Paktia, 30 September inflicting heavy human and property losses' on the Najibullah troops and capturing more than 14 posts, both MtZDIA and ANA report. The mujaheddin have also captured four tanks and huge quantities of sophisticated weapons and were few kilometers away from Gardaiz city and rapidly moving towards military garrison and other strategic positions of the city. .The native village of the Kabul regiipe President Najibullah, )ias also been captured by the' mujaheddin.
     Meanwhile, the Afghan authorities have confirmed fresh fighting around the city of. Gardaife> reports BBC adding that the regime is expecting further, attacks on the city. (NTN)
 * Addressing a press4 conference in Peshawar 30 September, Yaqoob Nasar, Federal Minister for Tribal Affairs, confirmed that 130,000 Afghan refugees had returned their ration cards to the government in the light of UN plan for repatriation and returned to Afghanistan. He added,' the refugees Would not be ousted forcibly. (NTN) *
 * The, Nation in its editorial 1
 October says:   To assume. that
 simultaneous softening: of US-USSR atti-
 tudes would inevitably lead to peace in Afghanistan, would be premature. Many obstacles remain, 4 including Najibullah himself. . But even if Najibullah steps down, the Government of Pakistan may not show much flexibility in 'dealing with those in Kabul^ including those who disown Najibullah. While there seems to be. an identity of views between Pakistan and Iran about non-acceptance of Najibullah' as a player and acceptance of . the UN formula as a useful . basis. for negotiations, there is little else to. Show that Pakistan has really a plan to see that the Afghan refugees cap go back to their homes. And it is tos that end, we should, have directed our energy. (NTN)
 * The Haqqani office reports from Peshawar that the mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime forces in t)ie surrounding areas of Gardaiz 30 September and destroyed three security posts in the west of the city. The H-IA. (Hekmatyar) claims•to have demolished another four security posts on the security belt arouftd Sayyed Karam. The Haqqani group, carried         out an operation on the.
 Gardaiz-Kabul Highway destroying, three military posts. They had, used tanks in this Offensive. (VOADS)
        2
 * The mujaheddin captured 26 security posts, a number of regime tanks, ammunition and other military bases of strategic importance in Gardaiz ,30 September and were making hectic
214
 -/
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
 efforts for fortifying, their positions in the captured areas:, preparing themselve for another ground assault On the garrison, reports ANA. Mujahed-din are also reported to have weakened , the artillery fire of the regime forces and killed or 'injured dozens of regime soldiers in the two days of fighting. (MLM)
 *  A nine-member mujaheddin delegation led by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi conferred at the UN with Soviet Foreign Minister Boris Pankin 30 September on ways' to settle the- conflict in Afghanistan. Sebghatullah Mujadd.edi gave few details of the talks and told APP correspondent, "they were open and very frank". He said it was decided to hold the next meeting in Moscow and that his delegation would participate. (MLM)
 *  Addressing a press conference at the Iranian Embassy in Islamabad 1 October the Iranian Ambassador, Jawad Mansouri, said Iran was opposed to any foreign interference in Afghanistan whose people, he said, should freely decide about their future. He said Iran favored an agreement acceptable to all the people of Afghanistan. (fyLM)
 *  Addressing a press conference in
 Kabul, Najibullah Said, "Afghanistan is willing to hold elections under the UN with the opposition representatives and his regime in all provinces of Afghanistan including areas controlled by the; opposition. He said he would hot resign as head of the state, adding every Afghan had the right to take part in a peace, settlement. As he spoke two rockets landed in Kabul sending shudder through, the faces of Afghan officials and journalists. (NTN)              t *
 *   Addressing a function on the occasion of the Day of Pakistan in Washington US Congressman Don Ritter said Soviet defeat at the hands of the Afghan mujaheddin has shattered the
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 concept of invincibility of Soviet army and their secret agency, the KGB. He said Soviet collapse in Afghanistan paved the way for eastern European and Baltic States to seek independence from the Soviets. (JG)
 *  The former Afghan Monarch has said that if Najibullah fixed f date for his resignation, he would personnaly make arrangements to return to Afghanistan provided the majority \of the people believed that his return would help_ towards the maintenance of peace in the. country. (BBCFS)
 *  Boris Pankin, the Soviet Foreign Minister, has met: the delegation of Afghan mujaheddin in New York. TASS said that release of Soviet, POWs by the mujaheddin and a Soviet request for the preparation of a' comprehensive list 6f Russian POWs With the mujaheddin, were the main topics of discussion.'
      Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AI6 President, said in this regard the Afghan mujaheddin treated the POWs kindly and he would assist iii preparing a Complete list of the POWs. He assured, however, that a couple of the prisoners will be released in the near future. (BBCFS)
 * In their annual meeting on the occasion of UN General Assembly session to coordinate their positions on issues of special interest to the Muslim world, the Foreign Ministers of "'Islamic countries unanimously approved a draft resolution on Afghanistan 2 October at the UN stressing an "early start" on an intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment of broad-based government in Kabul, Based on the same lines as last year's consensus, resolution, it pells for the "cessation of hostilities" and creation of 'peaceful conditions that would enable millions of .Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran
215
 /
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.
VOL. 5 NO. 1
  to return to their country. The only new element in the draft is the expression of support to UN Secretary General’s plan for Afghanistan. Addressing the meeting, Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Siddique Kanju, said the Kabul regime’s intransigence remains the sole impediment in the way of comprehensive peaceful settlement.- (PT)
     After talks with the Secretary General Perez de Cuallar at the UN 2 October, the OIC Secretary General, Hamid Algabid said, "we are optimistic about finding a settlement soon to end the sufferings of the Afghan people". The OIC, he said, was playing an active’ role in promoting a settlement of the Afghanistan problem. (PT)
  * In fierce battle at Mehtarlam; Laghman, the mujaheddin killed 2 October 70 Kabul regime troops, destroyed nine tanks and 11 trucks and set ablaze- qn ammunition dump. The mujaheddin also captured 25 regime soldiers, including a major,' two tanks, killed nine regime, soldiers arid destroyed four tanks and three military jeeps in operations 1. October. The mujaheddin closed the Logar-Gardaiz Highway at Tera Kotal for traffic 1 October to disrupt reinforcement to the besieged military Garrison of Gardaiz, reports ANA. In, the continuing clashes at different fronts of Gardaiz, the mujaheddin claimed to have captured four more security posts 1 October. They also captured two tanks and killed, or wounded a number of regime troops. In Logar, the mujaheddin have Unleashed heavy artillery fire on the regime positions at Pul-e-Alam. And in Maidan-Wardak, the mujaheddin launched a surprize attack arid destroyed four tanks and two military jeeps and captured one' tank and five regime soldiers 1 October. (PT) *
4
 * After a meeting between the Soviet Union, US and the UN representatives,
the Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris Pankin, in his talks with the mujaheddin leaders in New York has proposed that a mujaheddin leader might become acting-President in an interim gopvern-ment in Afghanistan and Kabul regime Prime Minister, Khaliqyar, ought to be retained, reports the BBC, quoting Afghan mujaheddin sources.It said the Soviet side has not disclosed details of the fresh proposals, and are waiting for the mujaheddin's reaction. The UN sources have expressed fear that the mujaheddin were stockpiling weapons to launch an offensive to weaken Najib's position. (MLM)
         ■ ■! _ ’• • ;
*   Sayyed Karam, the only district,
protecting Gardaiz from the mujaheddin attacks in the north-east, fell to the Afghan mujaheddin 3 October. A number of regime personnel are reported to have been killed ' or captured by the mujaheddin     who              have  smashed the
district headquarter of Sayyed Karam.' On the south-western front of Gardaiz, the mujaheddin captured a reinforcement convoy of      the regime containing           15
tanks and 200 troopers. (PT)
*    After Soviet proposal for
transitional government with a mujaheddin resistance     leader as acting-
President, a Kabul regime spokesman called 3 October for talks between all parties in the Afghan conflict to decide the composition of an interim government that would lead to elections.     The            Soviet proposal was
unveiled to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris Pankin, during their talks in New York., says the BBC. (PT)
*  The Soviet offer asking Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to accept the presidency of a coalition government in Kabul with the regime Prime Minister Fazal Haq Khaliqyar as its Prime Minister or accept zaher Shah for the interim period, has been rejected by Mawlawi
 216
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 Mohammad Younus Khales of HIA in an interview. He told the ANA in Peshawar 3 October Mujaddedi's meeting without any approved agenda with the Soviet-envoy is aimed at gaining cheap popularity and "only those could meet With the Soviet, officials who have either no Islamic feelings or they are' taken up by a lust to power." (PT)
 *  Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, a. major mujaheddin commander in operations on Gardaiz, says the battle in , Gardaiz will soon come to an end as the resistance of the Kabul regime forces was being shattered. (BBCFS)
 *  An ammunition dump in Gardaiz has l>eeh totally destroyed by mujaheddin rocket fire. Sources close to Commander'
   i'  ' , ’ •• ■ ; ■ .' .            - .
 Haqqani in Miranshah said the flames of th'el blast in the depot, close to the artillery division, continued for over six hours. A number of constructions in the area have also been burned out. (VOADS)
 *, The NLFA mujaheddin reported from Kabul that six rockets landed in Kabul Airport 2,3 September destroying a rocket arsenal and a depot for military outfits. A number of Kabul regime personnel were also killed during the raid. (VOADS)
                                                   5
 *  In an interview with MIDIA, the Chief of HIA Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, has said that imposition of any broadbased government with a roie for Khaliqyar, Zaher Shah or any other unacceptable figure will be opposed by the mujaheddin. He said the mujaheddin wanted tosset an Islamic government in Afghanistan and history will not allow the ex-King Zaher Shah to open another chapter in the Afghanistan affairs as he failed once to render any service to the Afghan people. Burhanuddin‘Rabbani JIA leader has aslo rejected a foreign imposed transitional government. (NTN)
                         VOL. 5 NO. 1
 *  The AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has been reportedly offered by the OS and the Soviet Union' to become head of the interim government in Kabul replacing Najibullah. Mujaddedi has responded favorably to the offer. The move, a sources said, was motivated by the US. The US Secretary of State Janies Baker had held talks with Soviet officials. Meanwhile, the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has rejected the offer and said that no concessions would be given to Soviets or their puppets in Kabul.
 (MLM)       /                            4
 *    The Russian Vice-President, Alexander Rutskoi in a meeting in Moscow 3 October, with Kabul regime Prime Minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar, discussed the situation in Afghanistan and bilateral cooperation. (MLM)
 *  Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddique Kanju briefed the llJN General Assembly President Samir Shihabi^ 3 October on the latest developments, in Afghanistan and Kashmir. (PT)
 *  Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs,, Akram Zaki, told a gathering of students and academicians at Columbia University 4 October' "we are on the verge of a breakthrough on the Afghanistan's question and Moscow now appears to . ,be willing for a transition arrangement minus Najib-ullaih". In April, he said, the Pakistan government concluded that- a military road towards a settlement in Afghanistan was a disaster and it decided to push for a political settlement. (PT)
 *  MIDIA, quoting Afghan Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, has said that the mujaheddin were close to Gardaiz, Pak-tia, from three sides (east, west and south) and were advancing from the if* no,rth and have captured Badsia area settipg on fire an oil depot. They also
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfflllANJ1HA0                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
 captured 13 regime security posts of the Gardaiz Airport 3 October killing a number of soldiers and militiamen and capturing 30 militiamen. Meanwhile, ANA reports that Gardaiz received bombings 3 October at night and severe bombing by the regime jet fighters over mujaheddin positions around the garrison continued 4 October. They dropped cluster bombs and booby traps to ' disrupt mujaheddin movement, Muja-^-heddin have captured a strategic military post, Yahya Kheil, near Gardaiz city and reached Balada from the south-eastern front. (PT)         ,
 *   Addressing a one-day conference organized by Pukhtqonkhawa Melli Awami Party (PMAW) on the Afghan issue in Peshawar 1 October, the Chief of the Party, Mahmood Khan Achakzai, urged the' solving of Afghan conflict through peaceful proposals in line with ideas presented by the UN and the Kabul regime leader Najibullah. He ruled out the possibility of capturing Kabul by force and said that those who wanted to burn Afghanistan would be resisted strongly. The Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Abdul Qayyum, represented the Kabul regime at the conference. (MLM)
 *   The mujaheddin have besieged a number of Kabul government militias in the Houz-e-Kushk of Raigastan, Hel-mand Province. The government of Kabul has failed to pay its militias since two months and therefore they, alongwith the KHAD personnel of the regime, have been resorting to looting of private properties in Helmand, Nimroz and Farah provinces, and have killed 40 people during these raids.
 (VOADS )
 *  Sayyed Mohammad Ali Jawaid, the Chairman of HlA (Mohseni), in Iran in regard to a proposal of the Soviet Foreign Minister that the present Premier Of the Kabul regime, Khaliqyar, ought to be included in the interim Afghan government, has said’ "we
 consider this proposal a kind of flexibility and important concession on the part of the Russians and it has been proved to us that the Russians are determined to rid themselves of the Afghan quagmire in any way they can. Our view, whether in Iran or Pakistan, is that the future government of Afghanistan should be without; Najib and elements cooperating with that regime. (VOADS)       >
                   6
 *  Leaders of four major political parties of mujaheddin- the HA, JIA, HIA (Hekmatyar), HIA (Khales ; ter a meeting in Peshawar have rejected the Soviet proposal for the formation of a mujaheddin coalition government with the Prime Minister ofpresent Kabul regime Khaliqyar, reports ANA. (PT)
 *    Sebghatullah N,u jaddedi, the President of the AIG said 4 October that he was optimistic that Moscow has changed its stanbe on how to bring about a political settlement in Afghanistan. But Mujaddedi was a evasive about,reports that Moscow had how dropped its insistance on keeping Najibullah in a transitional administration in Kabul. He told reporters in New York that the situation would become clear when he visits Moscow in about 10 days for further talks with Soviet leaders. (MLM)
                  7          -     \
 *  The Kabul regime leader Najibullah in a message to the UN Secretary General has urged the United Nations to in*, tervene and stop Pakistan from attacking Afghanistan and to hold Pakistani arms supplies to mujaheddin, reports the .BBC-. (MLM)
 *  Representatives of warring Afghan sides and former King Zaher Shah- will meet in about a month, signaling a
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 breakthrough in efforts to settle the Afghan conflict, the Kabul regime Prime Minister said 6 October. He told the. BBC that the UN-Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar would chair the meeting, which will most probably take place in Geneva. He. was interviewed after his journey to the United 'Nations in .New York. (PT)
    .Hundreds of families in Rowdat district and Chaparhar sub-1 district, Nangarhar, were compelled, to leave their houses after the regime air and ground forces started heavy attacks in the south and eastern parts of Jalalabad, city. (PT)
 *  An Oregan missile, fired by the Kabul regime forces rammed into a refugee house inside Pakistan near Torkham 6 October killing dne person and injuring two, said ANA. (PT)
 *  Afghan mujaheddin have overrun the first defense line of Gardaiz disrupting link between Kabul and Gardaiz. However, the Kabul regime sources say the supply is still continuing. Meanwhile, VOA says the mujaheddin are now eight kilometers away from Gardaiz. (NWT) *
 * The Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin >..!?We strongly resented- the US-Soviet offer to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to become the Kabul regime President in a coalition with Najibullah. Talking to AAP in Peshawar 6 October the AIG Minister for Reconstruction, Burhanud-din Rabbani said the mujaheddin and the Afghans will not accept a decision imposed by the aliens. The- Chief Of HIA, Younus Khales, criticizing the offer said, Mujaddedi should not expect their cooperation in efforts to join in a coalition with the Soviet puppets. The HIA (Hekmatyar) Chief of Political Committee, Qutbuddin Helal said his party would not take orders from alien powers. (NWT)
 *  The daily Jang says in its editorial 7 October the change in the “US-Soviet stance to keep Najibullah in power and the consequent acceptance by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi of the super powers’ offer to become the interim government president have brightened the chances of a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. In this perspective., the editorial says, the Government of Pakistan, should .remain more vigilant and careful on(the political front for the establishment of more cordial relations with the countries of the region for the sake of its national stability. (JG)
                                                    ■; 8 '
 *  Afghan mujaheddin rained a barrage of 1^ rockets 6 October on Kabul in one of the heaviest days of missile attacks on the Afghan capital, officials said. One person was1;:' killed and 18 were injured by the rockets. Four residential districts were said to have been targetted, the officials said, according to AFP. (PT) v
 *  Reduction- in humanitarian assistance to the Afghan- refugees by some of the international aid agencies and UNHCR has, created many suspicions and fears. An official! of UNHCR for the Afghan refugees has said that it depended on political development inside Afghanistan. He added they expect positive result of these developments. They want such, a political settlement of the Afghanistan conflict, which may create favorable condition for the return of the refugees to their homes, When asked whether they will continue their assistance to the refugees in the future# the UNHCR official said as long as the factors and reasons which forced the; Afghans to seek shelters in other countries are not removed, the UNHCR will be bound to fulfill their basic requirements. (NTN)
 on Gardaiz Kabul
* The mujaheddin attacks have been continuing and the
219
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
      regime fighter planes have been bombing the mujaheddin positions. A mujaheddin commander has said that' the mujaheddin have been firing on the Bagram Airbase for the last few -days to hinder the flight of regime fighters to GardajLz. The mujaheddin in an attack on-Gardaiz Airport have destroyed one.regime plane with .its creW.
           According to another news item, fears of a mujaheddin attack on the Jalalabad city have forced many
1    . residents to flee to other areas and
      even, to Peshawar,. Near the Ghazi Abad. agricultural estate, as a result of. bombing by Kabul planes, two women have been killed and several children wounded. The buildings of the estate have also been destroyed.
           In Torkham 7 October a Kabul regime Origan rocket injured a 1.0' •year old refugee boy and two women.
      (VOADS)
      * The United Nations has been active to convene a conference of all Afghan parties under its auspices. The UN is right now concerned mainly to find a way for an interim arrangement to be endorsed by Afghan parties. So far it is not known where and when the conference will be held, or which parties will attend it. (BBCFS)
                         9          ■      ;
      * Following an agreement between ' the super powers for replacing the Kabul
* regime President Najib by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, Kabul television has started fe-dchoing the latter*s statements, reports ANA.' The television reported 8 otober Mujaddedi, the elderly Afghan leader, has said that the mujaheddin attacks on the regime installations are un-Isf amic and against the national Unity. (NTN)
 ■   * Secretary-General Javier Perez de
 'Cuellar is ready to invite "represen--tatiVes of all segments of Afghan people" to a peace conference, if it was acceptable to the Afghans, a UN spokesman said 7 October, The move followed persistent reports that the Soviet Union would no longer insist on Najib's-participation in an interim administration that Would organize free elections in Afghanistan.
       "The Secretary General has expressed readiness to invite repre-■ sentatives of all segments of the Afghan people to a gathering, should such a gathering be acceptable to the Afghan people" a UN spokesman said, but he added, the date and venue of such a conference were still under discussion, (PT)
 *   The Afghan commandier Ahmad Shah .Masood has sa£d the Moscow accord between US, and the Soviet Union is only a drama benefitting Najib and damaging, the cause of the Afghans. Addressing a reception by Harkat-e-Jehad-e-Islami Pakistan, in Takhar (date not given), he said that the conspiracies aimed at stabilising Najibullah through various agreements would not succeed. (NWT)
 *  Four niujahedS of Harkat-e-Jehad-e-Islami Pakistan were "killed in Gardaiz., says a press release issued by , the HJIP. (NWT)
 *  The super powers, in an effort to end the Afghan' conflict, have decided to terminate* the shipment of arms to ■ the warring parties in Afghanistan, are hoping that the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin will negotiate with each other to reach a . compromise. Some analysts fear' of a chaos among the resistance forces in which they might resort to killing each other.
      Dr. Siddig Nourzoi, a Professor of economics in University of California, says that the Kabul regime was militarily Strong and will possibly
 220
  OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 HI(lllflllJttlllU                VOL. 5 NO. 1
 continue to remain strong since it has stock-piled weapons that will suffice it for ten more years. (jVOADS) .
                                                    10
 *   The Pakistani Prime .Minister Mohammad NawaZ Sharif said 9 October, "the Afghan children are a trust with us and as their trustees, their education, their grooming and training is the joint responsibility of, the world fraternity in general and of the brotherhood of Islam in particular".
      The Prime Minister made the call during a ceremony for laying the foundation stone of Al-Hirra Children Home, in Haripur. The Charity home is to be built with a cost of nearly Rs.
 60 million in one year. The Prime Minister announced a grant of Rs. 'dominion on behalf of the government fot undertaking this project. (PT)
 * More than 30 mujaheddin were reported martyred while scores of others were injured in indiscriminate bombing of .the Kabul regime air force and SCUD attacks , over mujaheddin positions around Gardaiz, reports ANA. According to details the regime jet fighters dropped napalm bombs over mujaheddin military bases and targetted three bunkers of the mujaheddin near Setto Kandao, south of Gardaiz 8 October with SCUDS. As a result the bunkers collapsed and scores of mujaheddin Were
 buried under the debris. (PT)
                         ^ I .
 *  Afghanistan figured prominently in talks between King Fahd and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan 8 October. Pakistani officials, accompanying President Ishaq Khan, said the two leaders discussed numerous initiatives made recently by the Soviet Union, the United States and the United Nations to bring about a peaceful solution to the Afghan crisis.
 (NTN)
 * Hundreds of Afghan mujaheddin were
                                                                                                     221
killed or injured when the Kabul government planes bombed the Chalgai area near Gardaiz 8 October. According to reports, th£ Kabul government fired two napalm bombs on the area whiclv besides causing human losses, also destroyed two vehicles and a huge quantity of arms. (NTN)
*  Profi Mujaddedi, President of the
AIG, has said that the majority of the Afghan people support the UN plan for ending the war in Afghanistan. Referring to four mujaheddin leaders in Pakistan who have rejected the UN plan, he said experience has shown that mujaheddin forces had been unable to maintain law and order in towns they have liberated. He added that, contrary to the Pakistani army, the Pakistan government has told him that only through negotiations the Afghan issue could be Solved. (BBCFS)•              /■■
*  The AIG •; President, Mujaddedi has held talks with the US Department of State officials on the latest situation in regard, to peaceful.- settlement of the Afghanistan issue. He described the talks useful but did not give details. Mujaddedi had also a meeting with the US Vice President, Dan Quayle. He said he told Quayle that the AIG will never hold talks with the Najib regime.
(VOADSj'                   i  . L
*  Mujaheddin news sources say, due to
Kabul regime aerial bombardment in Gardaiz area 8 October, 35 mujaheddin' were killed and a number injured.•They say that the mujalheddin have been able to hold on the areas they have so far conquered from regime forces and they '* ■ have repulsed government troops in south-east, north-west and southern zones. '                                   ’ .
     The office of Mawlawi Haqqani reports that the , mujaheddin in the southern sector of Gardaiz city have (pv seized 85 vehicles, MC and DC cannon shells, 1,500 tank-shells and 2,000
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1 >
 BM^i4 rockets. (VOAPS)
 *  Due to Kabul regime air raids on the Ghalkai region in southern- areas of Gardaiz, 50 mujaheddin and a number
tof civilians have been killed. The planes dropped cluster bombs on mujaheddin positions in three caves.
      On the other hand Mawlawi Haqqani has said that only 11-mujaheddin have been killed. He agreed that the Gardaiz bombing was unprecedented during the 13 years of the Afghan war. (BBCPS)
 *  The AIG Premier, Prof. Sayyaf, has appealed to Afghans living in the West to support the mujaheddin. He added, once again we are clearly saying that we will not negotiate with the communists and will not go to Geneva or other places for such talks. In regard to the Afghans living in the West he said, until the time' that the country was raging in war* they were sitting silent in comfortable places and did not participate in the war. Now they haye lost their right to participate in the future of Afghanistan. He urged the UN Secretary General to respect the freedom aspirations of the Afghans and refrain from supporting the unrealistic proposals of the Kabul regime.
      Meanwhile, JIA Leader Professor Rabbani, in an interview has said if some mujaheddin, without consulting other leaders, may take decisions, we too will take similar decisions. He added in case officials of the Kabul communist regime decide to come over to the mujaheddin, the mujaheddin will receive them with open arms no matter what their ranks may be.
      Rabbani said issues related to the toppling of the Kabul regime, estab-■ lishment of an Islamic government acceptable to the mujaheddin and dealing with the criminals of the war have now become national issues concerning the country as a whole. (VOAPS)
                 11     :
 * Chairman of the Pakistani Senate Wasim Sajjad has observed that regional issues like Kashmir and Afghanistan had already attracted the world conscience and, seeing through the global perspective one could hope their speedier settlement in a peaceful way through negotiations. ' He was talking to the two member delegation of the Italian Senate led by Senator Giulio Orlando which called on him at the Parliament 10 October. (PT)
 ,* A well-known Commander of HIA of Matoon (Khost), Shukrullah, has been killed in a battle with Kabul troops oh the northern front of the besieged
 garrison of Gardaiz, reports
ANA.. (PT)
 . * Addressing a big public meeting in Rawalpindi -11 October, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Amir of JI, said the US wanted the Afghan mujaheddin to fail , in Afghanistan hut it would never succeed in achieving its objectives and would meet the same fate in Afghanistan as did the Soviet Union. (NWT)
 * Sebghatuliah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, returned to Pakistan 10 October from New York where, he said, he had meetings with the foreign Ministers of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, the Soviet and some other members of the UN. He also met the General Assembly President and the UN Secretary General and gave a speech to the Oip foreign Ministers. He said all supported peaceful solution of the Afghan issue on the basis of the UN 5-point plan. In regard to a reported Soviet suggestion that while Najib is going to Step down, the opposition should include the, Prime Minister of the Kabul regime in the transitional •government, Mujaddedi said, he has to
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 fllUIIHIl JtHlIU               VOL.  5 NO. 1
 consult over the issue with the rest of mujaheddin leaders. But he said, "according to my information, the Kabul regime, Premier, Khaliqyar, is an impartial and non-communist, but we have to consult about him with Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khales." (MLM)
 *   Six SCUD rockets hit Basawul
 village, Nangarhar, ' within two days, reports ANA. The rockets have destroyed several houses, and injured a number of; civilians.(MLM)                         '
 *  An American reporter who returned 11 October from Gardaiz has spoken about heavy fighting between the Kabul regime and the mujaheddin; forces adding that both sides were resorting to heavy weapons. The Kabul regime forces were using , "umbrella bombs" and have demolished many mujaheddin fortifications. (BBGFS)
 *   In order to support the mujaheddin operations in Gardaiz, the Herat mujaheddin have conducted operations around the Herat city. Azizi, the JlA liaison officer for the south-western region, sgys while bloody battles have been Continuing for more than 100 days in Zendajan, Herat, the Herat mujaheddin, in order to support the Paktia mujaheddin in their operation on Gardaiz, began operations on Pashtun Zarghoon, Gulran, Enjeel and the security built of Herat city 10 October. In the first phase of their attacks, .they conquered six military posts belonging to the security belt, destroyed seven tanks and other vehicles in the eastern and southern zones of Zendajan and the Herat Kandahar Highway has been blocked. (BBCFS) *
 * Talking to newsmen in Peshawar 12 October the Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Abdul Qayyum, said that the dream of the Afghan mujaheddin to • capture
 Gardaiz would never materialize and it is only through political means that the Afghan problem can be solved. He said some 10,000 mujaheddin were taking part, in Gardaiz operations. (JG)
 *   Leader of HI A Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said in a statement 12 October weak elements and parties whp had no role in the battle field, might prefer "national reconciliation" to jehad and join the Khaliqyar government in line with Najib proposal.(PT)
 *    Senator Maulana Samiul Haq, General Secretary of a faction of Ja-miat Ulema-e-Islami pf Pakistan in a statement 11 October said super powers were hatching conspiracies against the Afghan jehad in the guise of schemes such as th£ UN 5-point plan. He said that the Prime Minister of Pakistan was being misguided on the Afghan problem and mischievous elements wanted to_ sabotage Pakistan's whole hearted support of the mujaheddin leaders.(NTN)
 * The Acting Speaker of the Pakis-
 tan National Assembly Muhammad Nawaz Khokhar told two visitng Italian Senators 12 October that the struggle of the Afghan mujaheddin and Pakistan's moral and political support to them had broken the will of the Red Army and compelled the Kremlin to review the policy of intervention and subjugation in Afghanistan,(MLM)     ■
 * /Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, has said whoever joines Najib, Khaliqyar and other present regime leaders for formipg a coalition government, their fate will be the same as that of Najib and his friends. "To the mujaheddin this will be tantamount to accepting Najib's national reconciliation program,", he said.
      He said, if the Soviets and the Americans are believing to solve the Afghan issue and to impose their favorite leaders on the Afghan nation
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flffllMH J{Hflfl                   VOL- 5 NO. 1
                                      the clock.
  without the consent of the mujaheddin, they are terribly mistaken. "Without the mujaheddin agreement neither the war will end nor there will be any lasting peace. The mujaheddin will only lay their arms when foreign intervention ceases, the Kabul regime falls and the power is transferred to an interim administration acceptable to Afghans and void of Najib's friends, leaders or supporters of former governments. It will then be possible to hold elections and transfer povirer > to an elected Islamic government," he said. Regarding the convening of a conference in which 100-150 Afghans would    participate  he
  said a person who disowns 150 ideologically conscious mujaheddin inside Afghanistan will not be in( a position to solve the Afghan issue by a,conference in Europe attended by 150 persons.
  (VOAPS)              ,
  *   Prof. Sebghatullah   Mujaddedi,  the
  AIG President, told      reporters    in
  Islamabad regarding the fighting going on . in JalaLabad, Gardaiz and other areas that victory'      could not    be
  attained without military pressure. "This is why we have advised our mujaheddin to place the Kabul regime under siege and pressure. But serious operations, on larger cities will hamper the political solution," he said. Prof. Mujaddedi supported an "all Afghan" conference in a neutral country and under the UN auspices provided that no communist would attend the session^. (VOAPS)
  *   Mujaheddin sources report that during their attack on the Jalalabad city, they have also closed t^he Kabul-Jalalabad Highway between Surkhakan and Sarobi for a distance of 25 Kms. *
  * Fierce fighting between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces is continuing around Gardaiz, Paktia Province. Eye-witness reports say that the Kabul regime planes cire continously bombing mujaheddin supply lines around
      Zabet Omar, Mawlawi Haggani's representative, says tbe mujaheddin attacks on the city are continuing and they have now taken position within two kms.. of the Balahesar garrison.' (VOA.DS)
 ' •                 i , 1      •
 * Prof. Mujaddedi, the AIG President,
 said upon return to Peshawar after attending the General Assembly session in New York that during his - stay there he met the US Vice President, the UN Secretary General, the foreign ministers of , Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, the Soviet Union as well as the President of the current sessions of * the General Assembly. He said during these meetings he had discussed the political solution of the Afghanistan issue and also addressed the foreign ministers of the countries' he had met.       ,      '    (
      Mujaddedi added that all those he met supported the Secretary, General plan for the solution of the Afghan problem.
     ■ ‘  1 ‘                        '    i
      Rejecting the Soviet Foreign Minister's proposal on Zaher Shah and Khaliqyar participation in the future interim government. Prof. Mujaddedi said that this was not a Soviet proposal but it was actually forwarded by the Kabul regime leader, Najibullah submitted to the mujaheddin through the Soviet Foreign Minister.
      Regarding a proposal for a peace conference to be held in Geneva among the mujaheddin, Mohammad Zaher Shah and members of the Watan Party he said that some 100-150 Afghans would take part in this conference either in Geneva or some other country. Mujaddedi added that ■ if other Afghans accepted the former Monarch, he would not object to it. (VOAPS)
 *  The Kabul regime Foreign Office says that the mujaheddin have embarked on an
      .1 " . / • ■ '
224
  OCTOBER-DECEMOER. 1991
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 artillery attack on Jalalabad city as a' result of which at least 200 people have been killed. They have also attacked the Jalalabad-Kabul Highway. Further reports from Kabul say that the government had strengthened'its defense positions around Jalalabad to face probable mujaheddin onsloughts. (BBCFS)
                                                  14
 * Seventeen persons were killed and 67 in jured in a rocket attack on, Jalalabad
 by the Afghan mujaheddin, BBC quoted
                               •• /
 Kabul Radio. It was a planned operation, said VOA. The mujaheddin have also killed 65 Kabul troops and captured eight security posts closing Kabul-" Jalalabad Highway in Sarobi district. They also ;■ destroyed four transport planes at the Bagram airportt and shot down one MIG-27. (JG)
 * The AIG President . Sebghatullah Mu-jaddedi, ruling out any role for Watan Party of Najib in a future government, said 13 October he an his like-minded leaders would not y ’ ild to other mujaheddin parties with different Views on a political solution of the Afghan problem.
   He was speaking in a press conference in the presence of two other mujaheddin leaders, Pir Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammadi,* after they returned, ffcom New York where they had talks with UN members on the Afghan issue.
    He opposed military mujaheddin offensive against Jalalabad and Gardaiz saying they will entail many civilian casualties. He said the mujaheddin should only surround these cities to pressure the Kabul regime for a political solution. (NTN)
 *  Armored units of Kabul forces
   i                     ,
 conducted shelling over Say.yed Karam, natiVe village of Kabul President Naji ullah which was recently taken by the mujaheddin. Sayyed Karam, falls close to the .Gardaiz front where a pitch battle between the mujaheddin and
 the Kabul troops is continuing. (NTN)
 *  Professor Sayyaf the Prime Minister of AIG has. condemned the barbaric and inhuman bombing on mujaheddin positions near Gardaiz last week in which a number of mujaheddin were killed.
      In a press statement Sayyaf called on the international community’to take note of “this shameful act of crimina-ality of the communist regime in Kabul ’ and not be misled by its false and hypoCratical empty cries for peace.”
 (NTN)                  .                  f;
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, has said that a mujaheddin leaders! delegation wij.1 visit Moscow within a fortnight on the invitation of Soviet government for holding wide-ranging talks. He told a press conference On his return from New York 13 October that in a meeting with him the Soviet Foreign Minister in New York put two proposals for the solution of the Afghan issue on behalf of the Kabul regime, the first one dealing with an interim government headed by one of the mujaheddin, leaders and with Khaliqyar as the deputy president and the second one dealing with the establishment of a national council headed by Zahier Shah.
 (PT)
 *  joviet Ambassador in Kabul Boris Pastukav has said resolving the present Afghan conflict is now an .urgent foreign policy objective for Moscow.
 He told a news conference in Kabul that an international conference on Afghanistan is now closer than ever. He said, the role of external powers, the o Soviet Union, the U.S., Iran, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan should be to provide international guarantees for
 any settlement. (NTN).
 *    Boris Pastokhov, the Soviet Ambassador in Kabul, said in a press conference .that .convening an international conference under the UN auspices on the Afghanistan issue was

225

OCTQBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 more than ever imminent. He added, the conference will be attended by representatives of the warring parties and foreign countries. On the basis of the US-Soviet accord on the ban of arms to the Afghans it is apparent that both the countries are willing , to exert possible efforts for ending the war in Afghanistan. "The role of the United States, the Soviet Union, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan will be an international guarantee for peace," he said. (BBCPS)
                                                  IS
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have captured Samarkhail military division near Jalalabad 14 October and are reported to have1cut off-Jalalabad-Kabul Highway inflicting heavy losses on the Kabul regime troops. They have also captured eight regime posts at Gardai Kaj in the pouth-east of Jalalabad. (JG)
 *  Prime Minister of Pakistan Muhammad Nawaz Sharif met the Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad 14 October to review with them the progress on the peaceful settlement of the Afghanistan problem. (NTN)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA,
 in a speech put the following terms on return for mujaheddin holding talks with the Soviet Union:         (1) The
 mujaheddin should adopt a joint stand,
 (2) there must be a specific agenda for such talks, (3) there should be a concensus on the composition of the delegation, and (4) the venue of the talks, should b’g determined by the mujaheddin.
    - • •
      Hekmatyar made the. statement during a condolence gathering at Shartt-shatu Refugee Camp 14 October, said' ANA. (MLM)
 » _V (       ,   • v
 *  Amir Jamaat-e-Islami Qazi Hussain Ahmed has said certain forces were working to Sabotage the struggle of the
                                                                                                     226
 Afghan mujaheddin on the threshold of success. Addressing a big public meeting in Quetta 12 October, the JIA leader said that some elements were planning to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in. Afghanistan. (MLM)
 * Haji Deen Mohammad, Deputy Chief of HIA (Khales), said that fierce fighting continued between the mujaheddin and th.e Kabul regime forces around Jalalabad since 12 October./ "On the night of October 13," he said, "the
 mujaheddin captured eight military
      \ '              ' ^
 posts at Gerdi Ghaus, Mohmand Dara
 district and the entire area is at
 present under their control". He said
 that battle was raging at Samarkhail
 in which’three mujaheddin were martyred
 and 17 others injured but regime
 casualties could not be substantiated
 on account of the fierce fighting.
      A mujaheddin commander says that ddring the Samarkhail battles they captured three tanks and some quantity of arms and ammunition.
      Sources close to Mawlawi Khales say that fierce. fighting broke out between the mujaheddin and regime forces at Lataband near Sarobi 12 October in, which the mujaheddin captured three posts at the Tor Ghar region and seven at Lataband itself. (VOAPS)          ‘ '
                                                   16
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have cut off Kabul-Jalalabad Highway near Sarobi, VOA quoted an Afghan mujaheddin hews agency. The mujaheddin said. the operation is part of their strategy to capture Jalalabad. (JG)
 *  The deputy director of the Bagram Airport and ,20 Kabul regime troops were killed in a -bomb explosion planted by an officer at the airport, says a MIDIA report* (JG)
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 MANJ{HAQ                       VOL. 5 NO. 1
 * Pakistani and Soviet ambassadors 14
 October discussed with the General Assembly President, Samir Shihabi, the Afghanistan question and the efforts underway to end the conflict. Officials said that Jamshee.d Marker of Pakistan and Yuli Vorontosov of the Soviet Union went together to President Shihabi's Office for a review of the situation, especially in the light of recent ^ visit to    New York by     an  Afghan
 mujaheddin delegation. (NRN)
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi. President of the AIG, says that he would soon leave for Afghanistan because he is fed-up
.with Pakistani intervention in the mujaheddin affairs. He told the AP in an interview that direct intervention of Pakistan was an insult to him. He did not elaborate. (VOAPS)
                   17
 *  The HIA (Hdkmatyar) in a statement said that it would not take part in the Moscow conference for ending the 13-
 year-old I Afghan war. Hekmatyar had stated 14 October that his party would participate provided the conference had a ^prepared agenda, the mujaheddin organizations adopted a common stance and the place for the conference was chosen' by the mujaheddin themselves. (VOAPS)
                   18
 *  Three hundred Kabul regime troops with four tanks and 11 armored vehicles have defected to Afghan mujaheddin in Gardaiz, Paktia. Afghan civilians have also started shifting to liberated areas. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin have captured- three security posts in Sarobi killing and injuring a number of regime troops. (NWT)
* The daily Jang in its Editorial 18
           / * •' .
October welcomed the reported moves, by the Afghan mujaheddin that political matters, instead of consensus, should
 be sett led on the basis of majority vote and that most of the parties have agreed on that. Describing it a. realistic concept, the paper says certain vital matters concerning he Afghan problem could not be solved as yet because consensus was needed. Under the former rule, even smaller groups were not to be ignored and this made solution more difficult. Now when the global powers are changing their priorities and Afghan mujaheddin are only a few steps away from the outcome of their historical struggle, with international situation most conducive for a solution of the. problem, the principle of consensus had created complications, in circumstances when Afghan mujaheddin had to      take  timely and    sagacious
 decisions. Nevertheless, while making any decision under this principle the smaller    groups should not   ignore and
 isolate a big . and powerful group. (JG)
 *  The Afghan private Sector is
 making rapid inroads into Central Asia, in preparation for an expected ’peace settlement. Both the government and traders are conscious that by building up contacts in the region now, they will become indispensable to Pakistan, Iran and India when these countries try, and muscle into the      Central Asian
 market.   Unless  there  is    an Afghan
 peace settlement soon, Pakistan can expect to be ignored in Central Asia.
 (NTN)                              c
 *   Leaders of Peshawar based Afghan mujaheddin are reported to be at cdde in regard to the selection of a person to lead the mujaheddin delegation during , its visit to Moscow. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar is reported to be insisting that Rabbani should lead the delegation While Mujaddedi insists that, he-, as leader of the AIG, should head the delegation. • pakstani officials are •trying to bring to. an end the stalemate in regard to this issue. (NTN)
 227
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 HF(i||j)|fill Will               VOL. 5 NO- 1
 *  The Kabul government has refuted a mujaheddin claim that the Kabul-Jalal-abad Highway had been closed because of being under attack by resistance forces . (MLM)
 *  With his closest Soviet friends in jail on' coup charges and his supply line about to be severed# Najibullah is
 'back-pedalling fast from Marxism in an attempt to save his Presidency. The termination of Soviet military and economic aid comes as Afghans brace to . be their hungriest winter in years. Hoarding of essential commodities has already begun. Najib has abolished the government morioply on essential suppl-lies* and flown 35 private traders to Soviet Union to relieve shortage of key commodities. Analysts say if Najibullah ;can’t arrange for wheat and feul 4-5 months from now, you will see rebellion in the streets. (MLM).
 *                   P          ■ ■„    1 P
 *. Fazl Haq Khaliqyar, the Kabul regime Prime Minister announced that official talks between the mujaheddin representatives and the Kabul communist regime will take place within four weeks. He said Mohammad Zaher the former Afghan Monarch will . also be part of the ’moderate factions of the Kabul regime during these talks. The object of the talks is the establishment of ap interim government for holding parliamentary elections and supervising election procedures. The conference, which will ^probably be held in Geneva at the end of October or early November, will not be attended by . Najib. (VOGDS)
 *  The mujaheddin have blamed the Kabul armed forces for the use of napalm bombs in their defense of Gardaiz which killled and injured many mujaheddin.. (VOGDS)
 * General Rahim Wardak, the military deputy of NLFA said that all mujaheddin organizations, including the indepen-
 depent ones, took part in operations around Jalalabad. He said the operations were not aimed at seizing the city but occupying strategically important villages around the city which control the military targets in Jalalabad. "Oner of the objects is to place the regime under military pressure so that the mujaheddin may have an upper hand in the peaceful solution," he said. According to him, the mujaheddin shot down a Kabul regime plane 17 October and inflicted heavy losses to the Kabul regime armored and rocket divisions. About 30 mujaheddin were killed or wounded during these operations. (VOAPS)
 * Nawab Saleem, speaker of H!A (Hekmatyar), said "we agree in principle with Moscow as a side to the Afghan Conflict which has been caused by the intervention of their former leaders. Since we have had talks with them in the past, we can also do so now, but because of conditions apparent from their behavior we shall have to excuse ourselves from taking part in this round of talks in Moscow.- But once we are sure that Moscow is earnest and sincere in its stand, we can take part in future round of talks". (BBCPS)
 * Prof, Sayyaf, leader of IIA and the AIG Premier, has said that he has rejected holding of talks with• Moscow because it was tantamount to a new form of colonialism which was sought for the Afghan nation* In an interview he said, most dear and sound reason for rejecting direct and indirect talks with the Soviets is that the proposed talks are centered around the future political system of Afghanistan with the Russian acting on behalf of the Kabul regime and this was condemnable from logical, legal, political and Islamic point of view. He added, if some people claim they are only discussing
228
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       fl[(!IIANJllflfl         VOL.  5 NO. 1
 with them the future ties between our two countries and not the political system or the future interim government of Afghanistan, it is simply an act of self-cheating. (MLM)
 *  A Soviet diplomat, who did not disclose his name, told a Moscow television reporter that Moscow had made no commitments to Washington to encourage Najibullah to resign. If they are of the opinion that the Kabul regime leader should step' down during the interim government, they must go to Kabul and talk it over with him. Moscow plans to respect its agreement with Washington that J they would ban the supply of arms to the warring parties by the end of the year. (VOAPS)
 * In" their attacks on the Kabul and
 Bagram Airports and military establishments in Kabul and Parwan provinces 14 October, the mujaheddin killed 80 military personnel and injured many others.    They  also  heavily damaged
 airport installations and destroyed two tanks and an arms arsenal. Eight mujaheddin were also killed and 20 injured during the operations. (VOIRA)
 * Mohammad Jawad Mansoori, the Iranian
 Ambassador in Pakistan, has said that Iran is against military intervention in the Afghanistan problem wishing the Muslim nation the right to         self-1
 determination. Mansoori hoped that.the issue will be solved justly and that an Islamic, independent and non-aligned government is established in the country to pave the way for the honorable repatriation Of the Afghan refugees to their homeland.. (VOIRA)
 *  In an interview with ANS, the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that meaningful dialogues with the Soviet Union would be possible only when it severes its links with the Kabul regime and accepts the government of the mujaheddin. He said the proposed dialogues are to be held for the estab-
 lishment of an interim government ^ in Kabul and the Soviet Union should clarify its official position in this regard. He said the Soviet Union was still extending military and political support to the Kabul regime and has not yet formally accepted the mujaheddin* He said there was no example in history where an oppressed nation had gone to apologize at the doors of the oppressor after defeating it in the battlefield. (NWT)           • ' "
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin have captured a strategic post of Sarwari at a hill top south of Gardaiz putting the regime froces on defensive after inflicting heavy losses on them. Meanwhile," shelling continues in Nangarhar between the regime forces and mujaheddin and clashes have also occured in Jalalabad. (NWT)
 *  The daily Jang says in its editorial .19 October that whenever any western
 country has given indication, it has been particularly noted from the very outset that western observers and diplomats have spread suspicions and apprehensions regarding the Afghan jehad.     Their     propaganda    has
 particularly intensified after Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. Now they are worried that if Afghan mujaheddin are able to form a government of their own they will remain engaged in their internal fights and fail to give a stable system to their country. The editorial says that this assumption does not hold truth. People of a country cannot be denied their independence and sovereignty because of unfounded fears. (JG)
                 20
  I.  ■ •  ‘        ■       •   .
 * Kabul regime planes bombed 19 October the mujaheddin positions in Landi Khyber Torkham on Pakistan^Afghan border. MlDIA, in reporting this, did mention casualties. It said fighting
229
                                                                                                                                                        1/
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 V AIGIIANJlllflU                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 was still raging in Tor Ghar arid Sorkh Road area of Nangarhar. The mujaheddin still claim they have blocked the Kabul and .Jalalabad road. (PT)
 *  Secretary General of the Pakistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, will1 hold talks with/ , AIG President Mujaddedi to listen to his complaints after he told the VOA '’I .am returning to my country after being fed up with continued interference of Pakistan in the Afghan affairs.". Zaki told The Nation that Mujaddedi had actually accused certain elements of interference in the affairs of his country and not the goernment of Pakistan. (NTN)
 *  In a major operation, the Afghan mujaheddin blasted an arms depot of the Kabul regime south of Kabul sending 400 missiles in the surrounding areas badly damaging the buildings , and destroying, tanks and armored vehicles. They have also captured two posts in Sarobi district. One mujahed was killed in the operation. Fighting between Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces is also continuing at Wreshmin Tangi near Sarobi. (JG)
 *  Wadir Safi, the Kabul regime Minister for Civil Aviation and Tourism, has said that the Ariana Airlines officials have been involved in indecent conducts in foreign countries that resemble rihose by Mafia agents. He blamed'them for the smuggle of gold, jewelry, and other articles, adding that, they also paid a certain commission to ranking authorities of the ministry for allowing them to continue their operations. (BBCPS) .
 *   Mawlawi Haqqani's representative has said in Peshawar the mujaheddin attacked Kabul regime forces south of Gardaiz, 17 October capturing a military post in the' area.
      An eye-witness said that losses were inflicted on the regime forces when the mujaheddin attacked 1 the Sarwari Post. Five^ mujaheddin were killed and 20 injured in the operation. He addedL that Kabul regime bombing raids in the surrounding areas of Gardaiz have intensified recently.
 (VOAPS)
 *   A JIA report from Jegdalek,. .Kabul province says that the mujaheddin
 attacked Kabul regime, forces in the Wreshmiri Tangi 17-18 October destroying an v. ammunition! depot containing war-heads for various types of rockets. The report adds that six tanks and four trucks loaded with ammunition were also destroyed in the area by mujaheddin long-range rockets and two important posts were also captured. One mujahed was killed and three injured during these operations. .{VOAPS)
 *   The HI A (Khales) representative reports from Nangarhar province that the Sorkh Road mujaheddin attacked the regime forces in their respective area 19 October and captured the Shamsapur posts. (VOAPS)
                  21
 .* Fierce fighting between Afghan mujaheddin and the Kabul regime forces is continuing for the strategic area of Sarwari in Gardaiz and the' mujaheddin have also attacked Bakar 10 kilometers south-west of Gardaiz and captured a huge quantity of ammunition in the operation.
      The Kabul regime has started evacuating from Jalalabad families of its senior officers after continued rocket attacks on the city by the Afghan mujaheddin, says Al-Bunyan news agency. (JG)
 *  Talking to newsmen i.n Attock, the Amir of JI Pakistan, Qazi Hussain Ahmed,.
230
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
has said the Afghan problem cannot be solved by isolating the mujaheddin under the conspiracy of "decision by the majority". For the purpose, he said, the number of members of the mujaheddin's committee has been raised from the original 28 to 40 by including in it those who lived luxurious life in Europe throughout the Afghan jehad and have now come to impose their decisions on the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
*   Mohammad Younus Khal'es, leader of HIA, commentig on a complaint by the AIG President Mujaddedi, about Pakistan interference in Afghan affairs has said that he disagreed with his remark and he had not consulted other mujaheddin leaders before making the remarks.(MLM)
                       • . \
*   The mujaheddin have destroyed two Kabul government Security posts in the Shamshapur and Dasht-e-Ghazi areas of Nahgarhar province. Reports teaching Peshawar also spoke of heavy mujaheddin and Kabul troops battles in Sarobi between Kabul and Jalalabad. Two security posts have been conquered by the mujaheddin in the area. ^he mujaheddin said they have destroyed six government tanks and four trucks. One mujahed was killed and three* injured in the operations.
   Eleven mujaheddin were killed when they hit anti-personnel mines near Jalalabad and two others in Gardaiz. According to MXDIA, Commander Farooq, of Jalaluddin Haqqani group died during an operation of Sarori post near Gardaiz 19 October. The agency further said that Commander Mir Bacha of JIA was also killed during an attack on the Ha jib troops in Wrekhmin Tangi area on Kabul-Jalalabad Highway 19 October. Eight mujaheddin sustained injuries.
(NTN)
*   Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, said the Pakistan government insists upon Burhanuddin Rabbani, JIA leader, to lead mujaheddin delegations
 to Moscow. Mujaddedi believes that the case is purely an Afghan mujaheddin affair and insistence on the part of the Pakistani government and the IS I
 can be considered as intervention in
                       }
 mujaheddin internal affairs.
      Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister, ’has considered the mujaheddin-Soviet talks as a fraud. He said according to available evidence the Soviet Union is taking part in these talks as the representative of the Kabul regime. "If some mujaheddin’ leaders are of the opinion that the talks will center on future relations between the two countries and has no connection with the future government, they are terribly mistaken," he said. The Soviet Union, he said, still officially .recognizes the Kabul commuriist regime and provides it with economic and military ..supplies . (VOIRA)
                 22
 *  The Pakistan Secretary General at the Foreign Office , Akram Zaki in a meeting in Islamabad with US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Near East and South Asian Affairs, Ms.’ Schaffer, said that Pakistan since early April 1991, had been firmly and irrevocably committed to a political settlement of the Afghan problem. (PT)
 *  Sebghatuilah Mujaddedi. President of AIG met President Ghulam Ishaq Khan of Pakistan in Islamabad 21 October . and discussed with him various aspects of the Afghan issue and efforts concerning a solution. The differences among the Afghan leaders also came under discussion. According to Pakistan spur-ces, the President assured Mujaddedi of Pakistan continued support in the solution of Afghan issue in a manner which is acceptable to all segments of Afghan people. (MLM)
231
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
    The leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has said that those speaking against Pakistan were not representing the resistance or the Afghan nation. He regretted such remarks about Pakistan. This was an obvious reference to a recent interview by Prof. Mujaddedi who had accused Pakistan of interfering in Afghan affairs. In a statement* Hekmatyar thanked the government and the people of Pakistan for providing 3.5 million Afghan refugees shelter and succour. He said* the Afghan nation will never forget the brotherhood, hospitality and assistance of the Pakistani people. "Pakistan always respected the will and determination of the Afghan people and firmly stood by them against all odds"* he added. (MLM)
*  The Kabul regime has laid thousands of mines on all the routes leading to Jalalabad and Gardaiz in an attempt to' stop the mujaheddin advance. ANA* quoting the mujaheddin wounded on the front, said the laak of mine-sweeping arrangements is impeding their speedy advance to both strategic cities. Fierce fighting, however, is continuing in Gardaiz. Heavy artillery exchanges between the Afghan mujaheddin and thq . Kabul regime forces are also continuing in the south-eastern provinces of Afghanistan with regime forces pounding the mujaheddin targets with SCUD missiles. (JG)
                                    1
*  After breaking the Kabul regime second defense line around Gardaiz* the Afghan mujaheddin have captured all the strategic points with the exception of Bala Hesar. (NWT)
*  According to ANA* five mujaheddin were wounded in a battle between the mujaheddin and the Kabul regime’ forces at Chaparhar district* Nangarhar, 21 October. (VOAPS)
 * The, MIDIA reports that the mujaheddin have carried out a surprise attack
 on the KHAD office in Mehterlam* Leghman killing Abdul Malek* well-known KHAD official and 12 of his staff. (VOAPS)
 *  One of the two American relief workers, who were taken hostage by the mujaheddin* has been released. An official of the US Embassy in Islamabad said the released person, William Lewis* is healthy . and resides in Pakistan after being a. hostage for three months. He expressed concern over the fate of the second hostage. (BBCFS)
                  23
 *  The heads of government of Commonwealth have expressed support for the UN, Secretary General's 5-point proposal and the initiatives of other states to reach a, just settlement of the Afghanistan problem. In a communique issued 'in Harare 22 October , the Commonwealth leaders noted that recent developments have increased the prospects of a comprehensive settlement of the Afghan problem and urged that efforts be intensified to restore peace and normalcy in Afghanistan and enable the Afghan refugees to return to their country. They also appealed for continued humanitarian assistance for the Afghan refugees. (PT)
 *   Secretary General Javier Perez de 'Cuellar has stepped up the process for
 a political settlement of the conflict in Afghanistan* a UN spokeswoman said 21 October.
                    . (
     Spokeswoman, Nadia Younus, told reporters the Secretary General exchanged views 8 October with representatives of Pakistan* Saudi Arabia*, the Soviet Union and the United States. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime radio has announced the death of Mohammad Anwar Basel, the
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfGIIAflJIHAD                  VOL* 5 NO. 1
governor of Paktia in a mujaheddin rocket ^attack. He was killed on the evening of 21 October during an inspection tour of some military posts.
(BBCPS)
*  A UN report about Afghanistan indicates in case Najib's resignation would pave the way for a peace treaty in Afghanistan which would result in elections, Najib would be ready to step down.
      Perez de Cuellar, the UN Secretary General said he has been assured that some of the personalities would not insist upon remaining in the office provided some important political topics were settled already. In his annual report toy the General Assembly, the Secretary General did not disclose any names, but officials and diplomats say that he clearly meant Najib. (VOADS)
*  An Afghan mujaheddin delegation is scheduled to leave for Moscow next week in their attempt to end the 13-year-old war , in, the country. Akram Zaki, Pakistani Director General of Foreign Affairs, said the delegation will be headed by Prof. Rabbani, leader’of JIA. (VOADS)
*  It has been announced in the UN circles that Benon Sevan, the Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, is currently on a vi.sit to the region. Prior to his departure from New York he had held talks with the Secretary General and representatives of parties and nations concerned about the Afghanistan problem. (RM)
                  24
*  The UN Secretary General has said regarding the Afghan problem that it can only be solved by peaceful means and a lasting peace is only possible through a political solution. He said
 all parties concerned should, through self-preservation, avoid the prolongation of the war. Expressing support to the ban of arms to the belligerent parties, the Secretary General said: I
 urge all governments concerned to encourage the Afghan people to become more flexible towards the political solution of the issue. Despite their support of the 21 May, 1991 UN peace formula, some governments which prefer the military solution are continuing their intervention in Afghanistan's internal affairs. The Afghan issue has reached, a decisive stage and we must use the opportunity for ending the war and bloodshed in the country. (VOADS)
 *  Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of
 Pakistan and his top military advisers have had a two-day meeting with mujaheddin leaders and are expected to meet again soon. The sources say the meetings took place in an effort to urge the mujaheddin on a consensus regarding their visit to Moscow. It is expected that talks will begin in Moscow within a month and the mujaheddin must have a ready answer to Soviet proposals which will in fact be made on behalf of the Kabul regime. But two of the mujaheddin leaders have already decided not to attend the Moscow talks, and a third leader has strongly
 rejected the Soviet proposal for talks between the two sides. (VOAPS)
                 25
 *  During crucial deliberations between the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif and a delegation of Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad 24 October, attended also by Prince Turkey-al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia political solution of the Afghan crisis was discussed and the Prime Minister said that the international environment today was most congenial for a political solution of the problem ensuring permanent peace in Afghanistan,
233
 I
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHANJEHAfl' ■                VOL. 5 NO. 1
  Competent sources said. To avail of this atmosphere, the mujaheddin representatives decided to send an effective delegation to Moscow early next month to have "vital and decisive" talks with Soviet leaders ; for the settlement of the problem. The Soviets have indicated through diplomatic channels that they were willing to agree on Najibullah's exit from the Afghan scene "to accommodate and' accept" the. mujaheddin organizations as true representatives of the people of Afghanistan, the sources added. (PT)
  *  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 24 October, Prince TUrkey-al Faisal, special envoy of King Fahad of Saudi Arabia, said the Soviet Union has dropped its insistence that the Kabul regime leader Najibullah should participate in peace talks for solving the Afghanistan crisis. He said, it has removed the major obstacle in the efforts to resolve the issue. He said, he had brought a message from his country for Afghan mujaheddin to remain united. He said "as they now have clear signs of victory they should forge close unity to achieve tjie historic success". (PT)
  *  Mohammad Zaman Khan Afridi, Central Convener of the Tehrike Ittehade Qabail (TIQ), in a press statement in Peshawar
  23  October, asked the Kabul.regime to : support the Afghan, mujaheddin, struggle
  for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan instead of dancing to the s tune of their alien masters. (PT)
  * Five Afghan mujaheddin iwere killed and 10 injured when Kabul regime planes dropped bombs on their positions near Shahre Nau, a few miles from across the Pakistan-Afghan border in Kurram Agency
  24 October. Later the regime planes entered Pakistani territory and dropped bombs near a border village, Kharlachl, causing no loss of life or property.
  (PT)
 *  In an exclusive interview with MIDIA Commander Anwar Khan said that electric supply had been cut off in Kabul as a result of mujaheddin operations destroying three important security posts including two tanks and military vehicles and killing and wounding a number of regime forces in Wreshmin Tangi area. (Date not given). He said the Kabul-Jalalabad, Highway is still closed. Anwar Khan strongly rejected any role for Fazl Haq Khaliqyar in the future of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 *  An eight-member delegation of Afghan mujaheddin leaders, including those' in Iran, is going from 3 November on a 7-day official visit to Moscow at the invitation of the Soviet Government, to find a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. (JG)
 * Addressing as Chief guest at the foundation stone laying ceremony of KGA Lawyers'Club in Karachi 24 October, the Pakistan's former Chief of Army Staff, General (Retd) Mirza Aslam Beg, said that the Kabul regime subjected Pakistan to terrorism in vengeance.
 (NWT)
 *  The mujaheddih organizations have agreed to send a delegation to Moscow early November. The agreement came after the mujaheddin leaders met with Nawaz Sharif, the Pakistani Prime Minister. Prince Turkey-al-Faisal, special envoy of King Fahad of Satidi Arabia, also took part.in this meeting.
 (VOADS)
 *  The Council of Afghanistan's Teachers, an organization comprizing teachers of the mujaheddin schools in Peshawar, in a rally demanded the reopening of three mujaheddin high schools said to have* been closed for lack of funds. Leaders of the council, said in Peshawar that . the three high schools related to the Education Ministry had a total of 3,500 students and 160 teaching staff and have been
234
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       AKlHMJfHAU               VOL. 5 NO. 1
 closed for the past six months. They said despite the fact that humanitarian aids related to education had always continued, the teachers have not been paid for the last eight months. The camp authorities and guards attacked the demonstrators as a result of which eight of the teachers received injuries from bionets and butts of their guns. Sikty arrests were also made- (VOADS)
 * Frankfurter Algemeiper of Germany writes under the title "the spark of a tottering hope in Afghanistan", writes nearly two years have elapsed from the withdrawal of the Soviet occupation forces from Afghanistan but the rohr of various weapons has not yet ceased. The major obstacle in the way of securing peace in the country is Najibullah, the. leader of the Kabul regime, who came to power in 1986 with the help of'. Gorbachev. Though in the .meantime he | has turned away from communism and claims to be a . Muslim, but the mujaheddin who consider Islam as the only basis for a government set-up, reject Najib's claim who was once head of the ''vintellegen.ee' of the Kabul regime. (VOG)
                  26
 * 3 mrces close to HI A say during Afghan mujaheddin's ; meeting, with the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had opposed the Afghan mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow saying that the Soviet Union was a usurper and begging things from it would be tentamount to conceding defeat. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the sources said, also refused to be included in the delegation (MLM) *
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 25 October, Haji Ghulam Ahmed Bilour, Central Senior Vice President Of ANP and Federal Minister, said by ignoring Najibullah or his ruling
 .Watan Party in Kabul, no one could find
 out durable settlement to the Afghan problem. He urged for early political solution of the problem which, he said, posed severe economic problems for the pOuntry in general and for the NWFP in particular. (NTN)
 *  A spokesman of mujaheddin high command on Jalalabad front told AAP that strategy for 'an onslaught on Jalalabad had been evolved and all the military itargets of Najibullah regime on the front were within their range. Meanwhile, mujaheddin have appealed to the citizens to vacate the city and Shift to safer places in the liberated areas immediately. (NWT)
 *  The daily Jang in its editorial 26 October advised the Afghan mujaheddin to accept the proposal of the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, for a dialogue with the Soviet Union for a peaceful and political settlement of the Afghanistan problem. It says that war does not solve any problem and in the end the parties have to come to dialogue and the Afghan mujaheddin should avail themselves of the Soviet invitation. In, this context the editorial has welcomed mujaheddin's willingness to visit Moscow and asked the government tp persuade Younus Khales and Rasool Sayyaf as well to • join the talks- The paper has hoped .that Afghan mujaheddin leaders will protect the interests of the Afghans by Sending an effective delegation to-Moscow and making the dialogue a success. (JG)
 *  David Eisby, a military analyst and author of the book "The Soviet War in Afghanistan" says. Inspite of receiving reports of heavy fighting he dpe.s not expect an early mujaheddin victory. The fighting in Afghanistan lacks the impetous of a modern offensive warfare. The National Council of mujaheddin Commanders surely has coordinated mujaheddin operations to certain extent but not fully.VHe says, if they expect
            OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991                                    fllllllflndtliliil                                       VOL.    5     NO.   1
     to place the Kabul regime under pressure, they must have coordinate attacks throughout- the length and breadth of the country. (VOADS)
     * Faizullah Kakar, member of HiA and
     Chairman of Advisory and Research Boardj of Afghanistan says* the US-Soviet arms ban to Afghan warring parties will help a peace settlement in Afghanistan because:     (1) Since the
     Kabul regime was receiving sophisticated weaponry, banning of arms supply will create a relative balance between the two sides which will benefit the mujaheddin,. (2) The US was dealing directly With the mu jaheddin "-commanders . This has caused tension between commanders and the mujaheddin leaders. The arms ban will remove this tension and pretext for intervention, (\3) On-ce the supply of heavy arms to the Kabul regime stops, it will be, difficult and more expensive for them to procure them from other sources. Qn the other
   . hand the mujaheddin can easily obtain their usual supply of light arms elsewhere, and they are familiar with the use of these arms. The arms ban will* therefore* put pressure on the Kabul regime forcing their hand to yield to a logical political settlement: (VOAPS)
     * A former Kabul University' Professor regarding the intra-Afghan dialogue, said to be held sometime in the future, observed: The Afghans will be contented with any effort that may save them from the present disaster rfnd will always support such a move. The Afghans "have
'«v experienced; many conflicts in the past which they have often settled through the Loya Jirgah. If it is not possible at this stage to convene a Loya Jirgah, the intra-Afghan dialogue can be a good substitute and a welcome move.
V         Dr. Anwarul Haq Ahadi said though
     details of the intra^-Afghan dialogue are not specified, but it is said
 that 100-150 personnel will trtke part1 in it. The majority of the participants will be determined bv the, mujaheddin leaders in Peshawar, while representatives of the former monarch, the Kabul regime and the Iran-baSed mujaheddin organizations will also be included. It is also possible that. some intellectuals and former diplomats will also attend such >a meeting. (VOAPS)
                                  -s'
 * Dr. Veggabarg who runs art orthopaedic hospital in Peshawar, says in May this year he had met official's of the AIG Ministry of Health and also had discussions with the ■ Kabul regime Ministry of Public Health regarding his assistance in this field after the war ends. He said 1,800- doctors, who are interested iii Afghanistan from many countries, including the United States, had so far offered to assist in training Afghan doctors in this field:
 * Highly placed sources in s Islamabad told The Muslim military operations and international support were: essential to make the Kabul regime to come to the negotiating table on mujaheddin terms: The. sources said, unless there was pressure, the Kabul regime would try to dictate its own terms or adopt delaying tactics to sabotage the whole procesq of an early political, settlement. The sources did npt 'agree with the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi's statement that military operations were no. more necessary in Afghanistan. They, said as a solution is now in sight-, Mujaddedi wants to remain in the forefront and take all the credit for himself and to bargain for becoming the head of the transitional government in Afghanistan. The sources disclosed that the, Afghan mujaheddin have dropped their- demand for war reparations following* persiiation by Pakistani, leaders and Soviet assurance that the Soviet Union would be willing to
236
 damages. (MLM)
 * In an interview in Peshawar 26
 October,. the AIG President Sebghatul-lah Mujaddedi, told The Nation that Afghan mujaheddin delegation led by Burhanuddin Rabbani, will leave for the Soviet Union 2 November. He said he was confident of early solution of Afghan problem following scheduled talks betweei) the mujaheddin leaders and the Soviet officials. He said that Soviet leaders would not insist on induction of Najibullah or Fazl Haq Khaliqyar in the future government of Afghanistan but would insist on formation of a moderate government not hostile to Soviets.  (NTN)
 *  The AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf has asked the Indian leadership to . learn a lesson from the defeat of communism in Afghanistan and stop interfering in its internal affairs. (NWT) *
*  One hundreds Kabul regime troops and officials are believed to have been killed in huge blasts in an ammunition dump caused by rocket and mortar attacks by t.he Afghan mujaheddin in Gardaiz Garrison 25 October. The Afghan civilians in the area had already moved to safer places. The Afghan mujaheddin also claimed to have captured a Kabul regime Brigadier General and his four bodyguards. (NWT)
*  The Chief of Mawlawi Haqqani's political office in Peshawar said, that the mujaheddin commanders in Paktia held a meeting 24 October on the .forthcoming mujaheddin visit to Moscow and other related matters. The resolution at the end said, "unless the Russians stopped their political, military and economic aid- to the atheist and puppet Kabul regime and refrained from recognizing the mujaheddin as the legitimate representatives of the Afghan nation,, we will reject every negotiation with
 representatives as it will be an act of treachery to our jehad aspirations. We will continue our jehad, and to call it a useless bloodshed will be disrespect to the sacred religion of Islam".
 (VOAPS)
 * MIDIA reports that the mujaheddin carried out a number of operations on the third security belt of Kabul city at Mahipar hydro-electric power station in which they captured 19 security posts. In the battles that raged for two days,’several troops and militiamen were killed or wounded and seven tanks and ll army personnel carriers were damaged. The report adds that the mujaheddin attacked some security posts at Shair Khan Katz on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway 24 October capturing four of them. (VOAPS)
                  28
*  Reports from Kabul said there is
acute shortage of food supplies in Kabul and a common man gets meals only once in .. 24 hours. The citizens have to depend on food supplies smuggled from Pakistan and Iran , but   those from the Soviet
Union have stopped. The mujaheddin have said if there is no political solution, the people jn> Kabul will die of starvation and there will be more S devastation this winter than the 10 years of war in Afghanistan. (NWT)
*  There has been another attempt to overthrow Najibullah in Kabul and the capital's link with, the outside world remained cut-off following heavy bombing and shelling in Kabul 27 October. (JG)
*' Khial Akbar Afridi, a leader Of Pukhtoonkhwa Milli Awami Party (PMAP), in a statement in Peshawar 27 October alleged that Pakistan was .interfering in the Afghan war. He said the Punjabi imperialists and Pakistan army, for the last 13 years, were conspiring to
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
contribute in the reconstruction of Afghanistan instead of recompensing war
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 flfGHflHJtHflfl                    VOL-  5 NO. 1
                                                         regime and this is evident in increased
 destroy completely the economy of Afghan nation. (MLM)
 * Artin Barwik, a Russian writer and author of the book "The Secret War" writes: The Afghan war , has so far beerf5 kept a secret from the Soviet people^ who do not know what has happened in Afghanistan. ‘My book is the first of its kind that tells the dark and negative aspects, of the war . The • Russian people were told that the Soviet troops have gone to Afghanistan in an effort to maintain the security of the- southern frontiers; if it were not for them the Americans would have occupied Afghanistan, because they had lost Iran, and strangely enough the people believed them. Gorbachev is also reluctant to tell the people the exact' number of those killed and injured, but General Gromov presented to me an official list of 15,000 names of the dead or wounded in the Afghan war. Barwik says;, the decision to send troops to Afghanistan was taken in: Moscow without the knowledge of the people. We know now that millions of Afghan households are suffering through this, but the ordinary Russian should not be blamed for it, and Afghans should not bear any grudges. Regarding war reparations, he says Russia must indemnify the Afghans for their losses ^ince it has imposed the war on them.
 (BBCPS)
 * Two separate contracts were signed between Pakistan and China 27 October. One contract is on Chinese assistance in the implementation of some unspecified projects in Pakistan. The other agreement is for additional funds to Pakistan for assisting the Afghan refugees stationed in this country.
 (VOAPS)
                  29
 * Diplomatic sources say prospect of mujaheddin negotiating with the Soviet Union have aroused unease in Kabul
 security levels in Kabul where vehicle checks have been stepped up and night curfew extended by an hour amid fears of "internal sabotage" by Najibullah's opponents within the government. Soviet diplomats said . they expected the mujaheddin to again insist on the removal of Najibullah and this could cause the peace process to founder. "Talk about Najibullah's removal is not realistic", a Soviet diplomat said. "Najibullah is a living part of the party which is a strong party. He has not been defeated on the battlefield and he will not give up withbut a fight militarily or politically", the diplomat said."(MLM)
 *  Speakers at a public rally organized by Islamic Movement of Afghanistan (IMA) in Peshawar 28 October unanimously rejected talks with Moscow until the Soviets disowned the Afghan communists, grant diplomatic recognition to the AIG publicly, admit crimes committed by their army in Afghanistan and accept liability for war damages to the Afghans. They said the UN was a "partial political tool, in Russian and American hands." This was amply proved during the Gulf War and was now again proved by the forthcoming Middle East talks in Madrid, Spain. The rally condemned the proposed visit of a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow and the UN plan for Afghanistan. A resolution passed at the rally called among other things for the formation of a single political and military leadership of the mujaheddin. (MLM)
   t     ’■            .              ^
 *  The. representatives of mujaheddin groups during a joint press conference in Quetta Press Club .(date not given) have declared, that the commanders and mujaheddin of South-West Zone would be free from decisions made by mujaheddin leaders, Moscow or any Washington authority, as they deemed both the US
 and Soviets big enemies of Islam who did not want a pure Islamic government in
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DfGHANJIWI1I                   VOL-  5 NO. 1
 Kabul. The representatives said that millions of mujaheddin, their commanders and ulairia at a representative Jirgah in Spin Boldak have expressed disapproval of mujaheddin delegations going to Washington and Moscow .for finding solution to the Afghan problem. .(NTN)
 *   The US Ambassador to Pakistan, Nicolas Platte assured the Commissioner for, Afghan Refugees in Peshawar 28 October that the UNHCR will continue to. provide assistance to the Afghan refugees. The Ambassador also visited the Afghan refugee tentage villages , at Kacha Garhi near Peshawar. (JG)
 *  A meeting was held at Chamkani,
 Peshawar in which Eng. Ahmad Shah, Deputy Chief of IIA, Ustad Ahmadzai, member of the Executive Council of, J[IA, Eng. Ubaiduliah, fprmer deputy' chief of HIA; a number of ulama and members of a former fpur-party alliance had participated. A declaration was* issued at the conclusion of the meeting which states:   Now that jehad victory is
 imminent, the trip to Moscow of a delegation is a blow to the mujaheddin prestige. It was not absolutely necessary to apologize at the door-step of the enemy. The Afghans themselves are capable of deciding their future leadership. Nobody is permitted to make
 ,a decision in this regard either with, the Soviet Union or any other nation. The declaration, rejecting a neutral government, insists on the formation of •a supreme council. (VOADS)
 *  Benon Sevan, the Personal Representative of the UN Secretary General for Afghanistan and Pakistan, told a newspaper correspondent that talks between the mujaheddin and the Soviets was a step forward towards the,solution of the Afghan problem. While urging the two sides for patience, he said, both sides should listen intently what each side has to say. He said the mujaheddin should have substantive proposals for
 these talks and should attend the talks unitedly. (VOADS)
                 30
* Addressing a crowded press conference in Islamabad 29 October, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi disclosed thai a visit of mujaheddin delegation to the Soviet Union scheduled 4 November has been put off for a few days because of the    engagements   of BUrhanuddin
Rabbani in Tehran. We will have to finalize  the agenda    for   talks  and
compose   the delegation       for   the
forthcoming talks for which new date and time will be announced. Asked about his possible reaction if the majority of the Afghan mujaheddin parties proposed some other Afghan leader instead of him; to head the interim government to replace Najib’s regime, he said "I will accept their decision if the majority of Afghan leaders and ulama agree on the leadership of a particular person,." He said, Pakistan, like Saudi Arabia, has always supported the Afghan jehad, yet Afghans will not ignore, the interests of their country and have the right to lodge complaint with the Pakistani authorities. (NTN)
 *  Najibu-llah, the Kabul regime leader, while urging peace and stability in Afghanistan, said the people . of Afghanistan were capable of determining their own destiny by means of, fair and free elections through the auspices of the UN. He added that the transfer of power and administration should be decided through understanding ajnong the entire Afghan nation. (BBCFS)
 * A Soviet diplomat has said in Islam-
 abad that, he is not optimistic about the results of the Afghan-Soviet talks and that they not make any newspaper headlines. A western diplomat said, matters related to POWs should not be discussed during these meetings. (VOAPS)          ^
 *  MIDIA reports Prof.* Sebghatullah
239
0
                                                                  OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
Mujaddedi. in a press, conference in Islamabad 29 October declared that - he would not take part in a coalition government with the communists. He added Najib, the Kabul regime leader,, must resign and Fazl-e-Haq Khaliq-yar is not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan., "But there are good Muslims in Afghanistan who can take part in the future interim government," he said. (VOADS)
*   Talks on economic, trade and technical cooperation between the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime have startd in Kabul. On the Soviet side the Russian Ambassador to Kabul is .also included in the talks while the Kabul regime delegation is led by the Minister of Planning. (RA)
                                                                                            31 ■'
*  The Chief of HIA, Mawlawi Younus Khales, has rejected the Speculations that the Government of Pakistan is contemplating action against three Afghan resistance groups- IIA, HIA (Khales) and HIA (Hekmatyar)- for opposing mujaheddin talks with the Soviet Union and also not being in favor of forming a transitional goverhment with the ruling Watan Party in Kabul. He has said he never thought that Pakistan could take such action against them as they have deep relations with Pakistan. "Pakistan has extended much support , to them just, for Islamic cause and - they are hopeful about continuation of such assistance till we secure our objectives", he said. (NTN)
*  The UN Secretary General's Special representative, Be non Sevan, has said real efforts should be made for an Afghan settlement in Moscow talks and these should not remain confined to mere exchange of views. He said there should be no doubt in anybody's mind that Moscow was firmly committed to a lasting peace in Afghanistan and the mujaheddin
I should go ther,e with constructive ideas. He said, the UN '.is attaching special importance to Moscow talks and the mujaheddin should show flexibility. (NWT)                         ...
*   Qazi Hussain ' Ahmed, Amir of JI of Pakistan, ! has said in Islamabad he has learnt from reliable sources that the Government of Pakistan had stopped assistance to those Afghan mujaheddin who are not willing to go to Moscow for talks. He said the Islam-loving people of Pakistan and its religious parities will * not leave their Afghan brethren alone and will be shoulder to shoulder with them till victory. (NWT)
*   Six persons were killed and 13 injured when Jamaat-ud-Dawaat armed men attacked the HIA (Hekmatyar) targets with SAS missiles in Asadabad, Kunar.
(JG)                '
*   King Fahad of Saudi Arabia has allocated Rs. one billion as an initial contribution towards reconstruction in Afghanistan. This* was announced by. the Saudi Ambassador to Pakistan, Mohammad Yousef Motabbakani, in Islamabad 30 October in the presence of AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and two other leaders, Burhainuddin Rabbani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. He also gave a cheque for Rs. 189 million to the AlG President for providing educational services to the Afghan children. He said King Fahad Fund for Reconstruction of Afghanistan has been constituted to rebuild areas ruined during the aggression against Afghanistan.i He said the Fund would be spent for construction of schools, health centers, industries, roads and power plants. The Saudi Ambassador said that preference would be given to establishment of basic infrastructure for development of agriculture and industrial sector. (PT)
*   An eyewitness report says that two unidentified persons opened fire on Dr.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991       MfllMNJIUAI]       ,     VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Abdul Rahman Zamani, President of the Austrian Committee, while he was driving on the road between Chamkani and Pabbi injuring him. The Austrian Committee has not only been offering technical courses for Afghan refugees in Peshawar since 1980, but also assisted the poor economically. (VOAPS)
                                                            NOVEMBER
                                        1
 ( ' • • . ... ;
 * Prof. Asghar, leader of the Afghan Salvation Society, said his Society regard the UN peace plan for Afghanistan ffective and useful. He added, there were . many obstacles for an inter-Afghan dialogue at the moment because the Afghans considered the Watan Party as the principle cause of Afghanistan’s tragedy. "Only those Afghans should be selected for this purpose who are acceptable to both the mujaheddin and the party. We respect the mujaheddin for the valuable services they rendered to the nation, particularly when the Russians were here," he said. (BBCFS)
 * , Afrasiab Khattak, the Secretary General of Qaumi Pakhtoonkhwa Party, told the BBC regarding the political settlement of Afghanistan, "we have' always urged that the problem can only be solved through negotiations. In my opinion the causes of war are no longer existing in Afghanistan and the conflict should be solved with the participation and consent of all Afghans". (BBCPS)
 . * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, said in Peshawar 31 October the mujaheddin must evolve a common formula and strategy before talks with the Soviet Union. He said, in case of absence of such a common approach it was better not to go for talks. It was not advisable for the mujaheddin to go to Moscow at this stage since Moscow, he
  said, was responsible for the bloodshed in Afghanistan and still supported the rejected regime in Kabul. The Soviets must give assurances that they wanted a solution through the mujaheddin and not through talks with Washington. He added, the talks must not focus on the exchange of, POWs but this should be part of a package settlement. Asked why the Soviets were insisting on the inclusion of the HIA in the delegation, Hekmatyar said, since all sides concerned knew that even if the talks in Moscow produced an agreement, ‘the same could not be implemented without the consent of the strong and effective parties and as such nobody can afford to ignore the realities. Regarding threat by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi to shift to Afghanistan and( his allegation of Pakistan's interference in -the Afghan affairs, Hekmatyar said everybody knew this gentleman who out of sheer frustration and lack .of role in jehad, was making such‘ statements. Asked what could be the reason of silence on the part of Iran vis-a-vis the recent developments in Afghanistan,
, Hekmatyar said it will be disclosed in due course Of time. The mujaheddin had\ pinned a lot of hojie on Iran but Iran turned out to be holding the wrong end of the stick, he added. (MLM)
  * Addressing a ceremony at Mansoora 31 .' October, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, Chief
t
  of JI, urged the Afghan mujaheddin to act prudently at this crucial juncture of their jehad when certain forces want to filch the fruits of their struggle. He said attention of the whole world was focused on Muslims. The Afghan jehad created a situation that could not be envisioned 10 years ago and radical changes were occuring under its impact in Central Asia. (NTN)
  * .Addressing .a joint press conference in Islamabad (date not given) the Chief of Pukhtoonkhwa'Qaumi Party Afzal Khan and the leader of Pakhtoonkhwa Milli
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfflllflN J(HJ10               VOL.  5 NO. 1
 Awami Party Mahmood Khan Achakzai, said the division of Afghanistan will be disastrous for Pakistan. He said it was our duty to sit for talks with' Najib-. !ullah and recognize1 the K^bul regime for the establishment of peace there. (JG)V
                                                                                        2 ■ >
 .* Afghan students, .carrying slogans and large photographs of Baitul Moqaddas, staged a demonstration 1 November in University Town, Peshawar, against the , Middle East peace conference in Madrid. . Despite large number of Arab students in Peshawar none * of them participated in the protest rally. (PT).
 * Twenty Kabul troops were killed and 14 injured in a mujaheddin operation in Paktia. The mujaheddin destroyed a. tank, two military vehicles ahd captured 10 klashenkovs, a mortar and a quantity of ammunition in the Operation (date not given). Three mujaheddin were killed and one injured. Meanwhile three persons', including a doctor of a relief; agency, were killed and three ..ambulances destroyed in severe bombing and rocketing by the Kabul regime in Nangarhar. (PT)
 * Diplomatic .sources in Kabul say the regime high officials are not obeying the Orders of Najibullah and his authority- is virtually suspended. A large number Of high officials in the army and the Ministry of Defense have established contacts with Afghan mujaheddin organizations. The sources, quoting authentic sources, have said several ’ important office-bearers of mujaheddin organizations have,, reached Kabul and, are staying at the residences of the high officials and Najibullah regime is taking no action against; them despite full knowledge of their presence in Kabul. (JG)
 *  In an informal talk with The Nation Ajmal Khattak, leader of the parliamentary party of the ANP (Wall group) in the National Assembly in Islamabad, has said that the, Afghan crisis could not' . be resolved unless, and until foreign intervention in Afghanistan was halted. This question could not have lingered if the foreign intervention would have been stopped soon! after the withdrawal' of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, he said. (NTN)
 ' . '  S .            -
 *  Commenting on the institution of a fund of Rs. one billion by Saudi Arabia for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the daily Jang says in its editorial 2 November that it is a shining example for other Muslim countries not to leave alone - their Afghan brethren in their reconstruction. It says, it would be useless to expect that the US, the European community and other countries will ever come to the help of the Afghans in the rehabilitation of their economy completely shattered b^ the Soviet invasion. The entire strategy of the. West is directed towards ensuring that. Afghans do not succeed in achieving their goals. They want to install a regime 'in Afghanistan acceptable to them and are opposed to the establishment of a government by the. Afghan mujaheddin. They visualize in the Afghan mujaheddin the creation of a powerful Islamic block in the region and thi,s haunts them. (JG)
 *  Talking to PPA in Islamabad (date not given), the Iranian Ambassador to Pakistan^ Jawad Mansoori, has said that equal representation and solidarity and unity among all the mujaheddin parties was essential for peace and the establishment of a real Islamic government in Afghanistan. The Afghah problem, he said; had been too much prolonged and needed to be resolved immediately. He said that due to differences among the mujaheddin, the Peshawar-based AIG could not finalize, the agenda for talks
OCTOBER-DECEMBER*> 1991  fllllllllN J(HII(]               VOL. 5 NO. 1
 in Moscow with the Soviet Union. Replying a question, he said the mujaheddin were being compelled for talks with the Russians and the talks might not be successful due to Soviet objections to the agenda to be presented by the Afghan mujaheddin.
 (NWT) ,
 *  Some 200,000 Afghan refugees have since July, 1990, returned their ration cards and received . 3,000 rupees and 300 kg. wheat each for their voluntary repatriation and rehabilitation in Afghanistan, says UNHCR. At a photographic exhibition arranged at Foreign Office in Islamabad guests have .been shown scenes in which the refugees are crossing Pakistan into Afghanistan with their belongings. (NWT)
 *  At least three persons were killed and five injured when the mujaheddin fired rockets on Kabul 1 November. Radio Kabul said the casualties occurred when eight rockets hit the surroundings of the Presidential Palace. (VO ADS.)
                                                   3
 *  In " an interview with APP in Islamabad 2 November, Pakistan's Ambassador to the Soviet Union, Ashraf Jehangir Qazi, said .the Government of Pakistan was determined to avail itself of the present opportunities to bring about an early political Settlement of Afghanistan problem on the basis of the UN Secretary General's proposals. He said the forthcoming visit of the. mujaheddin delegation to Moscow would pe a valuable opportunity for the delegation to apprise the Soviet leadership of its poipt of view and to enlist their cooperation for an early political settlement. (PT) *
 * The Pakistan Times said 3 November, there are bright prospects of an Afghan solution at the moment and the Afghans should avail of, the opportunity and reap the fruits of their great
 sacrifices. It says there is an international consensus for a political settlement and important hurdles in the way of its realization have been overcome. (PT)
 *  Fifty-seven Afghan ulama have issued a "verdit" against the proposed visit to Moscow by an Afghan delegation saying that any solution by the US and the Soviet Union cannot be Islamic. They said the Afghans had waged their jehad for the establishment of a true Islamic Government in their country and not for a coalition with the infidels. (NWT)
 *  Commander Gul Khan, President of the Mujaheddin Council in Nangarhar, was killed when his car was hit by an artillery shell. He was among the outstanding commenders of HIA (Khales).
 (BBCFS)
 *  An "Anti-war Movement" has newly been formed in Afghanistan. Ahmad Shah Afghanzai, member of the Movement said "the Anti-war Movement in Afghanistan, which is an independent national force, aims at uniting the Afghans against the war and to make unified efforts for the maintenance \ of national unity, peace and security in the country. It is also our objective to end the war in Afghanistan and the sufferings of its people". (BBCFS)
 *  According to Kabul diplomats, talks,
 among the mujaheddin leaders and representatives of the Kabul regime and Zaher Shah may be held towards the middle of December. The diplomats and UN officials say, they are not quite sure whether the talks will be held in Geneva as was said earlier. Other ' places like Vienna, Ankara and Bangkok have also been named for this purpose. (BBCPS)         '
 *  A reliable source told The Nation that,under the auspices of the UN, both
243
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 MANJIHIllI                             VOL. 5 NO. 1
           •_ • '_______________________________;__ ^_________• __________■__%_
                       v ‘. . . '.
the US and the Soviet Union were
 planning to convene a meeting of Afghan rival groups in Geneva some time this month to seek support of the majority of the participants in favor of the former King Zaher Shah. Following the decision of the scheduled meeting, Zaher Shah could be named as President of the Afghan Government with Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar as Prime Minister. The Americans, after such a decision, would consider actions against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf and MaWlawi Mohammad Younus Khales for not being ready to form, an interim government With Najibullah, the source said. The source further said that both the super powers wanted differences to continue among the resistance leaders as they did not want to see them in power in Kabul. (NTN)
 * Kabul regime planes have bombed its own forces in Jalalabad inflicting considerable damage to their positions and killing many militiamen, MIDIA reported 3 November. (PT)
 * Mahboobullah Koshani, leader of tfie SAZA party in Afghanistan hcts said when the Russian troops were thete, members of his party served both with the Kabul' regime as well as the mujaheddin forces. He said these members were still serving with some of the mujaheddin groups but denied that they were there as spies or agents. (BBCPS) *
 *  Dr. Abdul Qayyoum Kochi, a former Afghan diplomat says, in order (to bring about peace to Afghanistan, the US and the Soviet Union should have stopped their arms supplies to the Afghan warring sides when the•Russians withdrew from the country. He said, it is already too late to ban the arms as from January, 1992. However-, it is a positive step and the Afghans should make best use of this golden opportunity for bringing peace to their homeland. (VOAPS)
 * Mohammad Nateqi, member of Central Council of HWIA, said in an interview that in the General Congress of his, party held in Bamian province it was decided that the armed conflict against the Kabul regime should continue because, with the presence of the Kabul regime, establishment of a government acceptable to all Afghans would not be possible. He said, political settlement based on the UN plan and the Islamabad, Tehran tripartite conference as well as future ^meetings in Geneva and Moscow, will be acceptable when they leadto the establishment of a credible Islamic government in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 ;                 5
 *  The former King Zaher Shah of
 Afghanistan, living in exile in Rome since 1973, was repeatedly stabbed in Rome 4 November by Jose Santo Paolo de Almedia of Portugal posing as a jour-nalis, says the press office of the Carabinieri, Italy’s Paramilitary Police . Zaher suffered multiple wounds but the hospital, where he was being, treated, said he was out of danger. A Carabinieri spokesman said the assailant was arrested immediately. (PT)        •
 * The UN sources in Kabul say that the Secretary General's personal envoy for Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, who had been to Afghanistan recently would again visit Kabul in’ the -next few days. Diplomatic and the UN sources say President Najibullah was annoyed with the statement of the f UN Secretary General that he was assured that some controversial personalities, interpreted. as Najibullah by the mass media and other observers, would not insist on their participation in the transitional period, leading to a final settlement of the Afghan issue. It is believed that Najibullah strongly disliked the use of this term. (MLM)
OCTOBER-DECEMBER . 1991
u
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 *  Ahead of a visit to Moscow by an Afghan mujaheddin delegation, the Kabul regime President Najibullah has in an interview 4 November in Pravda said "weapons should be laid down" prior to organizing general elections under UN supervision in Afghanistan.(PT)
 *  Talking to Arab journalists in Peshawar 4 Novtember, the AXG Acting Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, rejected the proposal of formation of a coalition government with Najibullah saying they' will accept only a mujaheddin government. He Said if mujaheddin had adopted a single stance, the Russians would compromise arid give positive answers to their demand. Commenting on mujaheddin's visit to the Soviet Union,' Burhanuddin Rabbani said that the matter was discussed in a meeting of the OIC which decided that the delegation should visit Moscow for finding a peaceful settlement of the issue. The Afghan leader said that they would go to Russia as conquerors and would compel them to accept our right to establish an Islamic government in
 Afghanistan positively. (NTN)
 *1. >
 *  US Under Secretary of State for- the Near East and South Asia in the State, Department said in a conference of Asian Studies Society 4 November, now that nearly three years have elapsed since the 'Russian troops withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Afghan problem has been forgotten but war is still regirig in the country. He said, the continuation of war proved wrong speculations that peace will return after
 ^.Russian withdrawal. (VOADS) *
 * .Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA, told a gathering in Chamkani, near Peshawar, he is trying to obtain the support of other mujaheddin groups to go to Moscow. He said, he was going to Mowocow in a bid to add political pressure on the Kabul regime beside the military pressure. He added that it wogld nob. be a friendly trip to Moscow
   • ; •' * ' i, * _          •
 where he would be demanding for the Afghan rights and he would also ask for - wat reparations and halting of Russian relations with the Kabul regime.- (VOAPS)
 *   Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, leader of HIA, said regarding the Afghan delegation's visit to Moscow that it would mean the end of the Afghan conflict with the Soviet Union.
 "By insisting on the release of the. POWs," he said "the Russians are set to indicate that their war has ended and the present war in Afghanistan is only an inter-Afghan conflict, whereas their puppet regime is still in power. Every regime attack on the Afghan nation is, in fact, a Russian attack and .therefore the delegation's visit to Moscow is. n6t a wise move." (VOAPS)             '
                                                       6
 * Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 5 November, Jabraili, spokesman of Coalition Council, supported the proposed visit of Afghan resistance leaders to the Soviet Union. He said undeclared war could not stop unless talks were held between the rival groups. - He said those who re jected talks with the Soviet Union should not provide excuses to the Russians to launch propaganda compaign against the mujaheddin. He said, before going to the Soviet Union, mujaheddin shoiild adopt a joint strategy. The mujaheddin, he said, should pressure the Soviets to stop assisting the Najibullah. regime.
 He agreed that the exchange of POWs should be    part       of the political *
 settlement. (NTN)
 * The AIG in a statement by its Presidency 5 November, condemned the attack on the former King Zaher Shah and said that elements engaged in such criminal activities wanted the removal * of personalities who were actively involved in bringing peace in
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Afghanistan. It said, the mujaheddin considered such action against the interests of the jehad and the independence of Afghanistan.
      Relatives of former King Zaher of Afghanistan, speaking to The Nation from Rome, said he, was in' the house with his wife, ex-Queen Humaira, when he was attacked. He was immediately rushed to a hospital. They said that Zaher Shah sustained minor wounds and he is expected to be released from the hospital 11 November. A man, posing as journalist, reportedly entered *4 November the villa of the ex-King and polled a knife out of a package and struck him ’in his face and abdomen. The man, whom some Sources described as of Portuguese or Greek origin, was immediately arrested and taken awe^y for interrogation by the Italian police.
 (NTN)         ■ ■       .  * •'
 * Peter Tomsen, the US envoy to the mujahedin, in an interview with the VOA has said that the Afghan delegation's visit to Moscow would play a major role in the process of a peace settlement in Afghanistan. Aboout the inter-mujaheddin differences on the Afghanistan question, he said the UN plan has laid down a framework in which to solve the Afghan conflict and h!e understood, the majority of the Afghans, including outstanding commanders, supported the political settlement. He said, the world trend was such that even Angola and Cambodia, which were engaged in prolonged wars, were nearing political settlement; the Afghans should also use the political opportunity for reaching a settlement according to their own will. He added that the US would continue its humanitarian aid to the Afghans. (VOADS)
 * Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA, in an interview 6 November rejected any mujaheddin connection with the attempt on the life of Zaher Shah, the former King of Afghanistan. He said
                                1     . 246
 it was not yet known who was involved and for what purpose, but , he was sure that the mujaheddin were not involved. He said, "Zaher Shah is an old man and we condemn the attempt,on his life, as a cowardly act." (VOIRA)
                                                   7
 *  An 11-member Afghan mujaheddin delegation will reach Moscow 10 November for talks with the Soviet leaders, said a Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad 6 November. To be headed by Burhanuddin Rabbani, the delegation will not have any representative of Sayyaf and Khales group; nor Hekmatyar group is expected to be represented in the delegation. On way to Moscow the delegation will leave Islamabad for Saudi Arabia 8 November where it will hold a meeting with‘officials in Jeddah, the spokesman said.
 (PT)         . . ' 7 ■
 *  According to Peshawar-based Afghan sources, the UN Secretary General's special envoy, B,enon Sevan, after a trip to Kabul, has conveyed some new points to the resistance commanders and also had detailed discussions on them at a me'eting in Peshawar with the resistance Commanders' Council at their political office. -The points,r the sources said, were in fact an elaboration of the original formula on which certain resistance groups had sought clarification. Another report from Kabul says Benon Sevan's discussions in Kabul also covered the ceasefire and the possibility of thei establishment of an interim government before elections. (MLM)
 *  The police in Rome say the man who made an attempt on the life of former King Zaher Shah belongs to a pro-Iranian group 6f Afghanistan. The Afghan mujaheddin have already contradicted the allegation. VQA, quoting
   * l '             • '
 Italian police, says the accused is a Muslim holding a Portuguese fake passport. (JG)
 /
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AfCIfilNJtHAfl                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
  * Talking to Nawa-i-Waqfc in Rawalpindi 6 November, the ANP leader Khan Abdul Wali Khan, said "there are 3.3 million armed Afghans in our province who are refusing a dialogue and continuing confrontation." (NWT)
                     '       ,     : I
  *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, in an interview with the BBC said, it was possible that some Afghan dignitaries would^ meet in a capital of a country not yet 'specified, under UN Secretary General invitation towards the end of this month. He said, the mujaheddin would, prepare a list of personalities acceptable to them for
.taking part in an interim government and send it to the UN Secretary General. (BBCFS)
  *  Sayyed Noorullah Emad, deputy JIA leader, currently in the US for medical treatment, has told the VGA that any: negotiations with the Soviets should be conducted with a spirit of Islamic Revolution of Afghanistan and not for listening to their opinions on the future government in Afghanistan. He sail, talks in Noscbw she u.lcl center on war compensations ar.d POWs. (VOADS)
  * The office of HIA (Hekmatyar) in a
  statement           has           blamed
  Jamroat-e-Dawat-wal-Sunnah for not adhering to cease-fire terms in Kunar.' The statement adds, the HIA has urged mujaheddin organizations to establish a unified administration for keeping law and order in the province. (VOAPS)
                                                                                        .8 :
  *  In their Jalalabad operation, the Afghan mujaheddin have captured the first strategic security post in Samarkhail and 12 Kabul regime troops, reports MIDIA. Five mujaheddin, including two Arabs, were killed in the operation. (JG)
*  Twenty Kabul regime troops are reported killed during fierce fighting in Aliabad district, Kunduz. Five mujaheddin were also killed'. (NTN) I
*  In a TV speech in Islamabad on the anniversary of the October Revolution, tlfe Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan has said that political settlement through
!intra-Afghan dialogue and negotiations among the states concerned, with the participation of UN, is the only reasonable way to settle Afghan issue. (PT)
*  MIDIA reports that the Afghan mujaheddin delegation to Moscow will include Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, leader of HEIA, Ayatullah Mohammad Asef Mohseni, leader of HIA, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, Dr. Heshmatullah Mujaddedi of NLFA, Hamed Gailani, representative of the NIFA, Engineer Munsef, Masood Khalili, member of JIA Political Committee and Engineer Abdul Hameed Menhaj, incharge of the AIG Press Department.
      Prof. Rabbani told reporters that while in Moscow the delegation will be the guest of Saudi Arabian, Iranian and Pakistani Embassies and Saudi Arabia will supply them with a special plane for this trip. He said, in Moscow they will discus? matters related to mujaheddin prisoners, war reparations and halting of Soviet intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (VOADS)
*  Over 300 ulama, wh6 had gathered in the AIG Presidential Office 7 November, considered the Afghan mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow as a great honor to the Afghan jehad. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG 'President and Prof. Rabbani, leader of the delegation, briefed the ulama on the importance of this visit. In • response, the ulaipa regarded the visit to be in compliance with Islamic teachings saying that
247
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 DfGIIANJtHilO                  VOL-  5 NO- 1
 according to the Quran and the Hadith, the visit Was justifiable. They also gave verdict in support of the trip. (VOADS)
 *  'The Amnesty International has demanded the release of Abdur Rahim Chinzai who was kidnapped four months ago. Amnesty International said it was certain that Chinzai was in mujaheddin custody somewhere on the Afghan-Pakistan border. (BBCPS)
                    9
 *  Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 8 November, the AIG Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said that Moscow meeting may not provide solutions to all Afghan problems. He said that Kabul regime was illegitimate and mujaheddin leaders would press upon the Soviet Government to withdraw its support and stop interfering in its affairs. He categorically stated that nobody had compelled them to go to Moscow and it was the culmination of the desire of Afghan people. He said, "we1 do not know what the Russians expect from us. The delegation will hand over the list, of Soviet POWs to Kremlin and work out a formula for their release," he said. (PT) *
 * In a statement issued in Peshawar 8 November, the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, said, "no one shall be allowed to rule Afghanistan except the mujaheddin and the struggle to achieve this objective would be continued". He made it clear that the possibility of an agent regime simply ’ did not exist. He said ■ that the mujaheddin wanted to establish ah Islamic government in Afghanistan and Moscow was not going to help the mujaheddin to achieve this objective. He said that he did his best to convince the mujaheddin delegation to cancel their visit to Moscow but to no
 avail. He called their visit to Moscow a black page in the annals of the history of Afghan jehad. (NTN)
 *  Quoting analysts,VOA has said in. a Commentary that differences among the mujaheddin on their negotiations in Moscow have further deepened and no real progress in the first round of talks is expected. The moderates, it said, are making efforts for a political settlement whereas the hard-liners still expect a military victory over Najibullah. (NWT)
 *  In their current four-pronged attack on Samarkhail and Sorkh Road- the Kabul regime defense line of Jalalabad-
 .the Afghan mujaheddin have so far captured more than 18 strategic posts and destroyed several tanks capturing Some of them intact. (JG)
 *  Mohammad Younus Qanooni, speaker of the All Mujaheddin Commander's Council, says that the Council has not yet opined oh the forthcoming' mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow. In answer to a question that commander Haqqani had earlier regarded the visit to Moscow as disloyalty to the Afghan jehad he said, "this is his personal view but I hope such matters do . not cause rift among the commanders".
 (VOAPS)
 *    A Pakistani, Foreign Ministry official rejected allegations that the Israeli intelligence was controlling ini mid 80s the divertion of hundreds of millions of dollars of arm supplies from the mujaheddin to Iran. OBBCFS)
 *  Rasool Amin, President of WUFA, in an interview regarding a meeting between Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's personal representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, and some Afghan dignitaries has said in Peshawar that according to Sevan there will,soon be a peeting, in a neutral country, of Afghan representatives to discuss a
248
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER , 1991 JMfilli
 peace settlement in Afghanistan. Sevan has also said that both the Kabul regime and others have had eiiough of the war and the majority of the Afghans are in favor of a political settlement. While pointing to Cambodia, Angola and: the Middle East', he said problems were being solved through negotiations ,and not by war. (VOADS)
                   10
 *  Mohammad Nateqi, deputy political .commissioner of HWIA, in an interview with the VOA in Iran said, all the scattered forces of the HWIA have been brought under a unified command but economically the population of the provinces where the HWIA operates are hard hit. There is an acute shortage of food supplies and large scale migration to Iran and Pakistan is continuing. He said Parwan, Uruzgan, Maidan and some northern provinces have suffered greatly on account of floods, frost and plant diseases. "The HWIA," he said "will be included in the forthcoming Moscow talks". In regard to the offensive on Kabul, he said, it must, be carefully planned so that the innocent and defenseless residents are not killed. (VOADS) •
 * Afghan refugees risiding in the US
 held a meeting in Virginia, near Washington D.C.,  10  November. Sayyed
 Makhdoom Raheen, Chairman of the meeting, said that 300 Afghans took part, in the. meeting at their own expense in order to exchange views on • the situation in Afghanistan in general and the UN Secretary General ' s peace plan for Afghanistan in particular. Other speakers included Mohammad Hassan Kakar, Ghulam Ali Ayeen and Sayyed Naseem Alawi. (VOAPS) *
 *  The Commander's Council of JIA and • MIDXA report that the mujaheddin attacked the Daulatabad district, Balkh
 6 November and it was captured 9 Novenn-
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 ber. Eleven tanks and two anti-aircraft machine-guns, six, trucks, three jeeps and some quantity of light and heavy arms were also captured by the mujaheddin during these .operations. One jet-aircraft was shot down and the commanders \of the frontier forces, the KHAD unit, the police brigade, the militia forceand a large number of soldiers were taken prisoner by the mujaheddin. (VOAPS)
 *  Enroute to Moscow, the AIG Foreign
 •Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said in Jeddah, that an Islamic mujaheddin government in Afghanistan is the only         I
 solution. The Soviet Union, he said,
 has np other option but to accept such a government. He said his delegation will check the credibility of the Soviet leaders and see if they have changed their policies towards international. problems. The Afghan people will continue their struggle to topple the Najibullah regime, he said.
 Before going to Moscow the Afghan mujaheddin delegation held talks in'
 Jeddah with Saudi leaders. (NTN)
 *  Talking to newsmen in- Peshawar,, the Afghan Consul, Abdul Qayyum, has said
 /the Afghan mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow was a political and. military defeat for the mujaheddin and a great victory for Najibullah. He said those who were calling Najibullah a puppet and a. communist have now thems'elves gone to Moscow to become their puppets. (JG)
    '' ' t . ■ ■ ' > ♦After welcoming the Afghan mujaheddin delegation in Moscow, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Nicolai Kozeyrov, has said that the Soviet Union would make an attractive offer to them and discuss with them all aspects , of' the Afghan problem; He, however, did not elaborate. (NWT)
 *  Informed sources say /that before
 249
OCTOBER-0ECEM8ER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 Afghan mujaheddin delegation's departure for Moscow, two special envoys of the Russian government mtet Gulbuddin Hekmatyar inside Afghanistan and tried to persuade him to participate in Moscow talks. They' also conveyed to him a message from , the Russian government. The Afghan leader told.them that without an agreed agenda no talks could be held. Meanwhile, Mawlawi Mohammad Sarferaz, in charge of HIA (Hekmatyar) Political Committee, has in a telephonic interview with AAP- said that in case of a positive attitude of the Russian government, the HIA would consider participating in the , next round of £alks. (NWT)
 * The former Afghan King Zaher Shah in a message to the Italian Radio from his hospital bed has said that the attempt by a Portuguess Muslim .1 his life convinced him more than in the past that the Afghans are anxiously awaiting the solution of their problem. He said, this has further strengthened his determination about returning to his homeland1 to serve the masses. (MLM)
 * Mujaheddin launched fresh attacks in eastern Afghanistan 9 November rocket-ting the city of Jalalabad from the south-east and launching ground probes from the west. Fighting is also reported to have broken out in Paktia province. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin launched operations over the regime's posts and military, positions in Zindajan, Herat, 6 November killing and injuring 50 Soldiers and militiamen and destroying several positions. They also arrested 15 soldiers and captured weapons,. Two mujaheddin were killed and six injured, after the regime's bombing and artillery fires over their positions. In Balkh province, the mbjahfeddin captured the Dawlatabad district 8 November. A regime jet fighter was also shot down by the mujaheddin. In Wardak the mujaheddin in an operation over the
regime posts in Safid Khak killed 16 soldiers, and militiamen, injured eight and demolished two posts. They also captured 100 light and heavy weapons with ammunition and logistic materials. (NTN) •
*  The employees of some humanitarian organizations in Pakistah that are run by Afghans, in a meeting in QUetta condemned the recent attempt on the life of Mohammad Zaher Shah, the former Afghan monarch. (VOADS)
*  Dr. Noorul Haq Ahadi, a Professor of Political Sciences in the US, who had participated in an Afghan refugee meeting in Virginia pointed out to the following points of the resolution adopted at the end of the meeting:
-  The meeting, expressed sorrow at hhe present sit.uat.ioh in Afghanistan.
-  The majority of our people support a political solution of the problem.
    They regarded as positive the UN Secretary General's pain for Afghanis-stan though it lacked specific proposals for ending the war.
-  It was urged the UN should take more ‘effective and urgent measures in this respect.
-  The US-Soviet' agreement on the ban of arrtis to Afghanistan from Japuary., 1991, was not enough and should be coupled with more effective steps.
-  Beside the mujaheddin organizations, Afghan peace negotiations should also be attended by non-affiliated Afghans and all the refugees.
-  The meeting also condemned foreign, intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
-  All kinds of terrorist' activities were considered harmful for Afghanis-
250
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
 tan. (BBCPS)
 *  Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar, the Kabul regime Prime Minister, in the Cabinet meeting 11 November, urged strict implementation of the plan for purchasing surplus crops f^om farmers. He pointed out the shortcomings in the plan and the delays that occurred in purchasing wheat f rom - Helmand, Farah, Nimroz, Sar-a-Pul provinces as well as from other sources. Khaliqyar also gave necessary instructions to remedy the mistakes, committed in this regard. (RA)
                  12
 *  Afghan mujaheddin leaders held the first direct negotiations with the Russian leadership in 13 years of hostility 11 November. The delegation spent more than two hours with Russian Vice-President Alexander Rutskoi, a former captive of the mujaheddin. Rabbani, leader of the^ delegation, described their talks as constructive and encouraging but gave few details, TASS said. Rabbani told reporters he.! had reiterated the mujaheddin's refusal to hold direct talks with the Kabul regime. The mujaheddin also went on to meet nearly 100 mothers, fathers and wives of servicemen jnissing from the Soviet Union's military intervention in Afghanistan,, many of them holding pinctures of their relatives. Sympathizing with them Rabbani said, "it is painful to see you all here, to see mothers crying. But ; I have also seen the tears of Afghan motheirs crying for their children who have been killed". He showed them photographs of Afghan children maimed by Soviet mines. He told ‘ them that 1.5 million people had been killed and six million sent into exile during Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. One grieving parent told the mujaheddin, we are' not guilty of this war. Galina Amelina broke down when told how her son had been captured in 1983. "Since that day I have had no
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 rest", she said. "We also sympathize with the Afghans who have suffered. We know we have brought you much grief, but show mercy to our sons, we beg you to return our sons," she sobbed. (PT) •
                                                     I
 *  Speaking after the first round of
 talks     with the Afghan delegation
 Russian Vice President, Alexander Rutskoi said the Russian Federation will do its best to resolve the Afghan problem and promote peace in Afghanistan, BBC reported. TASS, however, said that the delegation's meetings with Russian and Soviet officials would "not be easy. This affects the destiny of the      Kabul regime . and:   President
 Najibullah," TASS said adding that if the     Afghan opposition insisted on
 Najibullah's resignation, the Russian leadership would strive "to, create conditions for free elections" in Afghanistan. (MLM),
 *  Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 11 November, Mohammad Afzal Khan, President Pukhtoonkhwa Qaumi Party, said absence of AIG President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, from the Afghan mujaheddin delegation for Moscow talks had confirmed that it was not a representative body of the Afghan nation. He said that the formation of the Afghan leaders delegation to
« Moscow, seemed to be influenced by the forces which did not want an end to the Afghan war. Afghanistan war,• he said, was the number 1 problem of Pukhtoon nation and should be stopped as soon as possible. (MLM)
 *  In their fresh attack on .Gardaiz Garrison, the mujaheddin have killed 10 Kabul regime soldiers and destroyed several tanks. They also destroyed a military supply depot of. the Kabul regime. (NWT)
 *  The former Afghan King Zaher Shah has left hospital after recovering from a knife attack on him last week,, officials said in Rome 11 November. He
251
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 was cut on the neck, mouth and left hand in the attiack by a man posing as a Portuguese journalist. (PT)
 * The Radio Moscow commentator regarding the visit to Moscow of the mujaheddin delegation said, though Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the delegation, considers himself a moderate, he has taken a tough stand in the current negotiations, but the main thing is that talks between the mujaheddin and the Soviet government have at least begun.He said, the Soviet attitude towards the mujaheddin has also changed, because in the past it did not pay any attention to their interests or desires. (RM)
                    13
 *   Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris Pankin held talks in Moscow 12 November with the Afghan mujaheddin delegation, reports BBC. TASS said no concrete results were expected from the talks. Boris Pankin told waiting journalists that the Soviet Union wanted to create conditions which will allow the Afghans to decide for themselves what kind of system they wanted. A BBC correspondent in Moscow said the Afghan mujaheddin are insisting ori the outright removal of the Najibullah regime. Although the 16-member mujaheddin delegation has expressed satisfaction over the talks so far, difficulties could crop up when the two sides get down to discussing details, the correspondent said. (MLM)
 * An Afghan mujaheddin official said, in Moscow 11 November that Russian Vice President Alexander Rutskoi told him he supported mujaheddin armed struggle against Kabul regime. "Mr. Rutskoi said the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan is guaranteed", Masood Khalili said after he and- 10 Other visiting Afghan leaders met Rutskoi. (PT)
                                                                   Muhebullah Hanif, President of
 Afghan Students Organization, in a statement in Peshavvar 12 November said continuing conspiracies from outside and ' mutual differences of Afgh.an leaders has, for the time being, shattered dream of complete peace returning to Afghanistan in the foreseable future. He said the so-called leaders had become millionaires and billionaires at the expense of mujaheddin who have shed their blood for 12 years. (MLM)
 *  Mujaheddin and refugees from the south-western provinces of Afghanistan with prominent inclusion of Durrani and Ghilji tribesmen staged an anti-Zaher
 !Shah rally in Quetta 11 November. Speakers on the occasion said they will resist all attempts for any imposed settlement in Afghanistan and continue their struggle till the establishment of a true Islamic government there. They held Zaher Shah responsible for the current situation of Afghanistan. They termed the recent attempt on the life of Zaher Shah as a plot for gaining cheap popularity for him in the shape of public sympathy by fooling the masses. (MLM)
 * Speaking to Al-Bunyan .News Service,
 high-placed Afghan mujaheddin sources in Pakistan said the Kabul regime leader Najibullah and his top loyalists might be exiled to Moscow or may seek political asylum in India, if the current Soviet-mujaheddin talks on the future of Afghanistan succeed. The' sources said Delhi has offered to grant political asylum to Najibullah, his family and top-ranking officials of the Watan Party.' The daily Kayhan International of Iran also reported last week "there are certain indications that Najibullah     might replace his
 Presidential palace in Kabul with a ’dacha’ outside Moscow in the near future. (PT)                           i
 *  Pakistan told the UN General Assembly's Social Committee 11 November
252
OCTOBER -DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHAN Jf HAfl                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 that the health and nutritional standards of Afghan refugees would be imperilled by a decline in essential commodities provided by the donor community. (PT)
 * Commenting on the Afghan mujaheddin
 delegation's visit to Moscow The Nation Says in its editorial 13 November that it is a bit , early to predict if anything will come out of the visit, but it certainly goes to show that many of the mujaheddin leaders are willing to listen to what the Soviets have to say about the possible remedies to the current stalemate in Kabul. There are some, including Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Who have reservations about the very process of negotiations. A substantial number of refugees, however, want the conflict to end so that they can return to their homes in peace and security. The only way to do that is clearly an agreement between the parties to the conflict for a ceasefire in the first place, and a trustworthy mechanism to ascertain the wishes (of the people about the government they want, in the second place. Everyone seems to agree with that except on the timing of the ceasefire and the manner of ascertaining the wishes of the majority. Realism demands, that the Afghan delegation should approach the Soviet leadership in ah accommodative spirit and try to win its trust in their bona fides. (NTN)             '
 *  A source in the AIG Ministry of Education has said that schools and other educational institutions have reopened after a lapse of many months, back of fuhds and the summer vacation were given as reasons for this closure. The source added that teachers would be compensated for the salaries they lost dhring the past months. (VOAPS)
 * A Kabul journal in its latest issue has strongly criticized the Kabul regime for its inability to procure food, and other (Consumer goods for the
residents of the city. The journal "Jawanan-e-Emroze" writes, "it is now 13 years that the ministers are shifting from one position to another but without knowing what to do. The deputies become ministers and the latter occupy their places. It looks as if there is an acute shortage of personalities in the country. Nobody is prepared to assign a job to the right person".
      The paper says that problems such as rocket falling and the loss*of the people in the streets are taken for granted by the residents and reporting them has become a routine job of the media.
      The paper goes on, "it is now 13 years that the leaders of this country have been riding other people’s horses and have placed their economic destiny in the hands of a nation whose political stability has always been decided by individual policies of its leaders and which does not adhere to its international commitments".
      The journal has criticized the government for failing tp take adequate measures for providing enough? for the winter. (VOAPS)
*  Radio Kabul says, the Kabul regime forces have successfully foiled opposition offensives on Jalalabad and
-Gardaiz. The report adds that 70 mujaheddin have been killed and a large number wounded and 22 commanders and a big quantity of ammunition have also been destroyed. (BBCPS)
*    The people , of Afghanistan are .optimistic about the political solution of the Afghan problem but ;commander Ahmad Shah Masood of the JIA is of the opinion that fighting will continue till the next year. He made this statement to BBC correspondent, Chris Powers, in a training camp in Farkhar,
253
Ml
VOL. 5 NO. 1
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
 Takhar Province. Other points in the interview were:
 -  He is not optimistic about an early return of peace to Afghanistan.
     The Soviet Union is not yet .convinced that Najib must quit and that they are still supplying him with SCUDS.
 -  The US-Soviet agreement on the ban of arms to the Afghans will only slow down competition but will not end the war.
    We started the jehad against the Russians empty-handed and will continue our war until victory.
 -  He still believes in the military option saying that the Kabul regime will face chaos as soon as some large cities are captured. (BBCPS)
 *  Boris Pankin, the Soviet Foreign Minister, rejected the mujaheddin demand for ousting Najibullah out of office saying we meddled in Afghanistan once and got our fingers scorched, so we do not wish to do it again. (VOADS)
                   14
 *  Reports from Chitral Agency say that Haji Ghazi Khan Chopan, a well-known commander in Kunar, was killed by un-identified gunmen on the night of 13 November when he was on his way to Chitral. Local VOA correspondent reports that Ghazi Khan, who had joined the jehad efforts right from the start of the war, was well-known in Nooristan area. Abdul Hai Warshan, an Afghan journalist said, "apart from his efforts in the cause of jehad, Ghazi Khari was campaigning actively against de-forestation of Nooristan". (VOAPSJ
 * Zaher Shah, former Afghan King,after leaving the hospital, has said in a
 message broadcast in his own voice,: All my life I have submitted to the will of Almighty God and whatever I' receive from Him, I will accept it with my heart and soul. During my reign in Afghanistan, I had adopted "Banda-e-Kho-da Almotawakkal-alal-Allah"(servant of God who trusts in God) as suffix to my name. This is something which I will be proud of all my life*.. While appreciating your sympathetic and brotherly feelings, I stress once again-on national unity. (VOADS)
 *  Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, leader of Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami, who is a member of the Afghan mujaheddin delegation to Moscow, in an interview with the BBC regarding boycott of some mujaheddin organizations with the Moscow talks said/, "it was decided in a meeting of the leaders that a delegation should•go to Moscow and now that we are here we follow the negotiations according to a specific agenda and they should rest assured that our agenda will be accepted by the, Soviets. We are endeavoring to act in the interest of our jehad and our people and acceptable to our brothers associated with the mujaheddin organizations. (BBCPS)
 *  Supporters of Zaher Shah have held demonstrations for the first time in Kabul. The demonstrators, numbering some 100 persons, gathered at Zarnegar Park in the center of the city and condemned the latest attempt on his life. (BBCPS)
 *   General Mohammed Rafee, deputy President of the Kabul regime and Chairman of the Supreme Committee for Prevention of Production, Smuggling and Use of Narcotics left for France at the head of a delegation 14 November to attend an international conference against the use of narcotics. (RA)
 *  Talks between the Afghan ^mujaheddin
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991   AffillAHJ[AA0                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
delegation and Soviet and Russian officials continued for the second day in Moscow 13 November during which the two sides exchanged written proposals to end the conflict. A BBC reporter said, both sides are still holding to their stated positions, the mujaheddin insisting that the Soviet Union should exert its influence and remove Najibullah regime and the Soviet Union expressing its hesitation to interfere. Sources in Moscow said that Moscow is pressing on the mujaheddin for the exchange of POWs and the mujaheddin are insisting on the removal of Najibullah regime so as to associate other parties of mujaheddin in the talks. The Soviet Union is reported to have offered to the mujaheddin that they would influence the Kabul regime not to bomb mujaheddin, positions if they agree on a ceasefire whereas the mujaheddin have told the Soviets that this would mean a practical ceasefire.
(MLM) '
*  Central Committee of Pukhtoonkhawa Qaumi Party at a meeting in Peshawar 13 November declared the end of confrontation between the two big powers on Afghan issue as a good gesture and hoped that the recent developments would lead to a political solution of the crisis. (MLM)
* The Soviet Union has accepted the proposal of Afghan mujaheddin for the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan, reports Pakistan Television. (NTN) *
*   The prominent Afghan commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, has in an interview said that contacts had been made between Kabul regime President Najibullah and the mujaheddin groups including his own. He said the Afghan mujaheddin could not play any concrete political role in their 12-year war
against the Kabul regime and he had been disappointed by indecision of the
 Peshawar-based seven-party groups of the Afghan mujaheddin. (NWT)
                 15
 *   According to a Radio Moscow broadcast, Boris Pankin, the Soviet Foreign Minister, said 13 November that a ceasefire was necessary during negotiations for ending the war in Afghanistan. It is also said that, according to Pankin Moscow would not insist on the composition of an interim government in Afghanistan. Previously the Soviet Union had insisted that the Kabul regime be included in any future government set-up. (VOADS)
 * The mujaheddin had recently launched
an attack   on Jalalabad but  it seems' 
that it    has not  been successful.    
Ih answer   to the  question  why the   
mujaheddin #   who1   were    fighting  
 enthusiastically at the beginning have now slowed down their operations, Rahimullah Yousufzai, a Pakistani journalist said that many mujaheddin feel that in the presence of a chance for peaceful settlement there is no need to resort to fighting. Therefore, all mujaheddin organizations were not fully represented, he said. Another reason, is that the Kabul regime was aware of the plan before hand and had mined many areas. Furthermore, the mujaheddin attack was retaliated by heavy and extensive air raids. (BBCPS)
 * Talks between Soviet officials and Afghan mujaheddin leaders continued in Moscow 14 November and Radio Australia correspondent said the Soviet Foreign Minister, Boris Pankin, has rejected mujaheddin’s demand to remove Najibullah. Moscow says it cannot do this but it wants its remaining POWs1released as soon as possible. Mujaheddin say this humanitarian issue will be resolved but not before progress was made on the political front. Pankin said, ceasefire is essential for talks and
255
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfGIIAN JlNflU                    VOL.  5 NO. 1
      • _____ _ _ ' • _______________________________________• ' .
negotiations. Burhanuddin Rabbani said a small beginning has been made towards a final settlement but differences remained. He said the delegation has decided to delay its departure for further talks centered mainly on a proposal by Moscow concerning the return of Soviet POW's held by the mujaheddin groups. (MLM)
                   16
*   According to BBC, the Soviet and Russian officials said that they have agreed to speed up the cut-off of arms to the Kabul regime in exchange for the release of Soviet POWs. He said the mujaheddin have agreed that the first group of Soviet POWs would be released by the end of this year. The Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister told BBC that the Afghan mujaheddin leaders have agreed that &fter the establishment of an interim government, elections would take place in two years time. According, to TASS, the rilujaheddin delegation at the Moscow talks had demanded the removal of Najibullah, cancellation of all agreements signed with Kabul regime and payment of war reparations worth one billion dollars. (MLM)
*   Kabul regime forces have shelled suspected mujaheddin camps Outside Kabul city limit, 14 November at.night. Artillery fire continued overnight from army garrisons and military sources said areas southeast of the capital were being targetted. Several rockets were also fired.(MLM) *
*  Afghan mujaheddin leader, Burhanuddin Rabbani, has in an interview in Moscow" published 15 November said that Moscow was directly responsible for the ’’catastrophe" in Afghanistan and called on Kremlin to end support for the Kabul regime. He said mujaheddin Controlled 85% of Afghanistan and could establish coritrol over the remaining ' area if Soviet military help to Najibullah was
 halted. (PT)
 * According to TASS the joint document worked out in Moscow on 15 November "includes a paragraph on the transition of all power in Afghanistan to an interim government". The document includes provisions for "interaction" between the Soviet Union and mujaheddin groups and both sides agreed to set up a special commission to ensure that agreements reached during the talks this week were fulfilled, TASS said Moscow had "confirmed its intention to participate in the post-war restoration of Afghanistan", but gave no details. (PT)
 *   A BBC reporter, quoting a Soviet soldier listed as missing, says the soldier now known as Islamuddin does not want to go home. "I have cut completely from the Soviet Union", he said, adding that he had decided to join the mujaheddin when he was converted to Islam. He was impressed by the hospitality he received from the guerillas after being wounded and captured
 in an ambush. He said, he was disillusioned with the war being waged by his countrymen against the people fighting fo,r their land, religion and country. He says he is no traitor but has begun a new life as an Afghan. He is now a trusted bodyguard of Commander Ahmed Shah Masood. (NTN)
 * A Loya Jirgah, comprising all the Afghan groups ‘would meet in Geneva shortly, under auspices of the UN with its Secretary General's five-point formula being the basis of the deliberations, Afghan sources in Peshawar said. The idea, they said, had .« actually been floated quite a few months back but was deferred till the outcome of tripartire talks in Islamabad and Tehran and then the deliberations in Moscow between the Soviet leaders and the representatives of the Afghan resistance. The deadlock
256
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 in Moscow, they estimated, might Have now prompted the holding of the jirgah in Geneva. (MLM)
 *  According to Voice of Germany, the Afghan commander, Ahmad Shah Masood, has proposed the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan having no representative of either Kabul rulers or the Afghan mujaheddin. The radio quoted him as saying that there were no signs of an end to the Afghan war and Kabul rulers were not interested in peace. (JG)
 *. Despite US-Soviet agreement on negative symmetry, the Soviet Union has supplied 15 most modern low flying all weather SU-24 fighter planes to Kabul regime, reports Air International Defense Magazine of London. (NWT)
 *  The US has restored; the relief aid of the Afghan mujaheddin. The aid is believed to have been restored to welcome the successful outcome of talks in Moscow between the Afghan mujaheddin delegation and the Soviet, officials. (NWT)
 *  Reports from Moscow indicate that talks between Soviet officials and the
 mujaheddin delegation have apparently reached a deadlock. TASS says, despite
 repeated efforts, the two sides failed to agree on a joint and acceptable
 document which would reflect the result of their talks on the Afghanistan
 problem. The report adds, it is said that the question of Soviet POWs was the major obstacle in this respect. (VOADS)
                    17
 Commenting • on first ever mujaheddin delegation’s visit to Moscow for talks
 with Soviet officials for a settlement of the Afghan problem. The Pakistan
 Times said in its editorial 17 November .that the five-day meeting shows the desire of both sides to make progress
 towards peace. The non-participatiqn of some influential Afghan leaders including Gulbuddin,. Hekmatyar in the talks may make it difficult for the decisions
 taken at Moscow to be implemented. All the same* the Soviets have indicated
 their willingness to meet* all factions
 of the mujaheddin. There are indications that the initiative taken by the
 UN Secretary General through his
 5-point formula may ultimately lead to isolating the hardliners on both sides. If negative symmetry is pursued in letter and spirit the pipeline of money and arms would become dry. Once that happens, a permanent settlement of the conflict would not be very far, the editorial said. (PT)
 * In an informal talk, Akram Zaki, Pakistan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, told newsmen in Islamabad (date not given) that the Afghan mujaheddin delegation in Moscow, held talks with Soviet officials on mechanism for the establishment of an interim government in Afghanistan, excluding Najibullah, and the progress was significant. There can be several rounds of these talks, he said. (NWT)
 * The Afghan mujaheddin have repulsed the Kabul regime's biggest ever attack in Gardaiz front 16 November kiTling and injuring hundreds of regime troops. In the fighting which continued from 7 A.M to 5 P.M, six tanks and an arms depot of the Kabul regime were also exploded by the mujaheddin. (JG)
 *   Akram Zaki, Pakistani Secretary General of Foreign Affairs, expressing pleasure over the result of talks in Moscow between the mujaheddin leaders and Soviet officials said, in his opinion as a result of Moscow
 257
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AIM JIHAD                      VOL.  5 NO. 1
 agreements, the establishment of an interim government in the near future and probably before 1 January, 1992 was possible. He told reporters, the next round of talks’will probably be held in Islamabad. (BBCFS)
 *  A UN report states that human right situation in Afghanistan, both under the Kabul regime and mujaheddin controlled areas, is. alarming. The report calls for attention to be 'paid to the state of political prisoners currently passing through various stages of interrogation, awaiting trials or verdict. It is said that the ' prisoners are also tortured. The report adds that neither the Kabul regime nor the mujaheddin are allowing the prisoners to be visited by UN representatives. The ICRC officials are also seldom allowed to contact these prisoners. (BBCFS)
 *  Ashraf Ghani, a specialist on
 Afghanistan affairs and Professor of the US John Hopkins University has said the important point in the agreement between the Soviet officials and the mujaheddin is that because of their weaknesses neither side may be able to implement the terms of the agreements. He said, the Soviet government may fail to carry out its commitments because both the Soviet:     Union and Russia
 were included in the negotiations and there is no unified government in the Soviet Union today. The mujaheddin may be able to realese the prisoners. How-ver, due to the difference existing in the power of various mujaheddin organi-izations, implementation of the terms of the Soviet-Afghan agreements may pose some complications. Ghani said, the Kabul regime has an army of 550,000 strong. "Now the question is, what kind of people will represent the Kabul regime in these talks? Will they be party members or non-party ranking, officials?" he spid. (BBCFS)
 * Radio Kabul, quoting a government
 declaration issued on the result of talks between the mujaheddin and the Soviet officials in Moscow, has said the talks confirmed the need to. end conflict through negotiations.' The declaration has said that agreement has been reached during these talks on the question of POWs but the .radio did not say anything ^about the agreement ori the formation of the. interim government.
 (BBCPS)
 * Shaikh Mohammed Asef Mohseni, leader of HIA, who had accompanied the mujaheddin delegation- to Moscow, has said that it was            possible that the
 organizations which did not join the Moscow talks might attend future negotiations. He said, the delegation was not representative of the AIG since a number of mujaheddin organizations had not joined the AIG. The delegation was composed of mujaheddin parties and there is every hope that consensus will be reached to help in the speedy solution of the prpblem and the transfer of power to an Islamic interim government, (VOADS)
    Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, leader of Da'eya-e-Ittehad-e-Islami■, also a member of the delegation, regarded the Moscow talks useful adding that it was only the beginning and not the end of the work. He said, "I got the feeling that the Russians are prepared to dissociate themselves from Afghanistan and also those in Afghanistan who are a burden on their shoulders". He said, it was formerly felt that Soviets wanted to solve the issue through the US help and to approach it through the' UN, but it was said in Moscow that, the US was not a party to the conflict and negotiations should be held • only between the mujaheddin and the Soviets. Qazi Weqad added, the mujaheddin delegation got the impression that the' Soviet Union practically lacked a central government and, therefore, the. door was open for direct talks with various sides in the country. (VOADS)
258
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AFGHANS                        VOL.  5 NO. 1
                  18
 *  The Najibullah regime has rejected the agreement reached between the Afghan mujaheddin and the Soviet Union sayingy that only the Afghans have the right to resolve the Afghan problem* He said only through negotiations between Afghan parties, a coalition government can be established for ending the war and holding general elections in Afghanistan. (JG)
 *  In an interview, circulated in Peshawar by ANA 17 November, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HI. A', has said that the Afghan mujaheddin's delegation returned empty handed from Moscow. He said he had not attached any hopes with these talks with Soviets except of opening a new chapter with them. He said that Soviets wanted release of their POWs. For this purpose, the Soviets wanted to impose a coalition set up in Afghanistan for the survival of a smaller westernized organizations along with communists. He also ruled out possibility of forming a coalition government in Afghanistan by saying that the people would foil such plots. He said that such talks would not bring any positive or negative impact on the Afghan problem, as most of the refugees and. mujaheddin had opposed it. He said it was deplorable that the delegation went to Moscow under the cover of AIG with its acting Foreign Minister as its head, Defense Minister, its member while three Ministers were represented by their sons or brothers. He said that Iran-based mujaheddin's delegation was sent to Moscow to widen gap among the mujaheddin.
     Meanwhile, the AIG Prime Minister Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf in a statement circulated by Al-Bunyan News Service 17 November, said, any so-called fake Islamic government which will come into power in our country with the consent
 and agreement of Moscow is no more than an alien puppet regime. We still believe      that     the      Russians'
 participation in decision making process of our country is illogical politically as well as from the Islamic point of view. (NTN)
 *  The leader of the Afghan mujaheddin delegation in Moscow talks , Burhanuddin Rabbani, in a statement in Islamabad 17 November described the agreement between Moscow and mujaheddin as a good start. (PT)
 *  Speaking to IRNA, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman, Morteza Sarmadi, said in Tehran 17 November that Iran supports joint statement by the Soviet Union and the Afghan mujaheddin' based in Iran and Pakistan after their talks in Moscow 16 November. Moscow statement is an effective step forward and the Afghan mujaheddin should take the opportunity to settle the problem, he said. He said Iran has launched large-scale effort s-> to settle the issue. (NTN)
 *  The ANP Chief, Khan Abdul Wall Khan,, told the District Bar in Peshawar 17 November that Russia was interested only in the release Of her POWs and not in stopping war in Afghanistan. He said that without Gulbuddin Hekmatyar peace talks were aimless. (PT)
 *  Ref lecting on , Moscow talks between the Afghan mujaheddin delegation and Soviet officials, the Kabul regime has said the main point of the MOscow talks was the release of Soviet POWs which, it said, was essentially a humanitarian step. The Kabul government has always made necessary efforts in this context and will do so in future* Regarding the issue of a mechanism of transitional period, the Kabul regime said it supports the 5-point plan of the UN Secretary General particularly its 3rd and 4th articles as well as the joint statement of the US and the
259
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 flfGHAff JIH/IO                VOL.  5 NO. 1
 Soviet Union. The Kabul regime, it said, is waiting . for the outcome of implementation of the UN plan and the US-Soviet joint statement. It considers intra-Afghan talks as key to comprehensive political solution of the Afghan issue.,(MLM)
 *  Commenting on recent Moscow talks between Afghan mujaheddin leaders and Soviet officials. The Muslim says in its editorial 18 November that while Moscow has agreed to drop Najibullah, it wants the Kabul regime to be represented in some way in the interim government. For this, the mujaheddin will need to consider holding talks with representatives of Kabul who are acceptable to them, or, in mujaheddin's own words "good Muslims" in the present Kabul regime. A great deal now depends on the attitude of the three so-calied hardline mujaheddin groups which did not participate in the Moscow talks. Soviet concessions made in Moscow, Which also included a strong condemnation, of the Soviet military invasion of Afghanistan, make it more difficult for the hardline groups to continue to reject the political road to peace. Still the key question, is whether they will be allowed to sabotage the Moscow agreement worked out by the moderate mujaheddin groups. (MLM)
 *  Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad has said in an interview that the reason why some mujaheddin -leaders refused to attend the talks in Moscow was that they were not sure it would yield positive results. "I am sure", he said, "that these leaders will not reject tangible results Otherwise their opposition will have, a bad impact , and will not be supported by the public, and I think this mistake is not going to happen". (VOAPS)
 * Sayyed Rahmat Murtazawi, the speaker of the HWIA, a member of Afghan delegation to Afghani-Soviet negotiations in
 Moscow, has said- in an interview with the VOA:
    Regarding war reparations, it Was decided not to use the term because of its sensitivity and it was agreed to state . in the joint statement that the Soviet Union expressed readiness to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
                                                                 • • ‘ ' ' ' ' • ,* ' • ’ — It was pointed out to the Soviet
 side that as it was void of. a central government, their representatives to the joint commission between the muajheddin and the Soviets should have full:authority.
 - Now that they are convinced that the results of the Moscow talks were positive, the organizations that refused to join will naturally attend' the next round of talks. (VOADS)
 *   Sebghatullah  Mujaddedi,     the AIG
 President, commenting ton the results of the Moscow negotiations Said they have been follow-up of his own talks with the: Soviets in New York. He said, the Russians have greatly altered their
 stand and it is hoped, that the talks will eventually lead to the complete independence of Afghanistan and the establishment of a government according to the will of the people. (VOADS)
 *  Saifur Rahman Halimi, representative of HIA (Hekmatyar) in the US, has said regarding the Afghan-Soviet agreements:
 -The Soviets should have stopped their arms supply to the Kabul regime immediately.
    The Soviets should release all Afghan political prisoners held by them ‘and the Kabul regime.
    They should supply us with their mine-"laying plans throughput Afghanis-( 'tan
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 fl[fillANJIHAD                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 - The Russians should not side-step from paying war reparations. They cannot substitute war compensation for taking part in the reconstruction of-Afghanistan. We do not need their cooperation in this respect. (VOADS);
 *  Mawlawi Nezamuddin, Chief of Mawlawi
 Haqqani's office said in Miranshah, "Mawlawi Haqqani himself reported from Seta Kandau 17 November that in fierce fighting with the Kabul regime forces during the last three, days the mujaheddin destroyed eight enemy tanks and captured another intact. He said that two arm depots were also destroyed duing thte same period and a large number of troops were killed.        One
 mujahed was killed and two injured".
 (BBCPS)
 *   Hafizullah Taluqani, speaker of
 Shoora-e-Wahda.t-e-Islami during      an
 interview in Iran said that his. organization, which represents       the
 Turkman nationality in Afghanistan, was not ■ invited for the talks in Moscow. "If this’is repeated in the future", he said "the Shoora will consider      such
 meetings invalid".
                        0 •
       A source close to Afghanistan's. Hizbullah has stated that 500 Kabul regime militiamen, belonging         to
 Division 7 of Herats'frontier forces, joined the Hezbullah 10 November alongwith substantial, quantities of light and heavy arms and ammunitions and nine vehicles.. The source added . that their mujaheddii) attacked Division 18 of the Herat Garrison 6-7 October killing eight soldiers and wounding 20 and inflicting material damage. ^
       The mujaheddin belonging to All Murtaza Front attacked a military post north of Herat 8 October killing four
 military personnel „ and capturing another^One mujahed was killed in the operation. (VOIRA)
                 19
 * In an interview with ANA from inside Afghanistan 18 November, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has said that the American war threat to Libya after the devastation of Iraq was a clear example of her nefarious designs in the region. He said that the Gulf War had made it clear to the Muslim world that America and her allies wanted domination of the region and it is for this reason that they are striking all those Muslim states one by one who oppose their imperialist designs in the region. ,(PT)
 * Four persons, were killed and two injured in a bloody clash between two Afghan resistance groups, HIA and Jubha-e-Milie in Girdi Jungle Bazar of Afghan refugee damp near Dalbandian 1,7 November,. (MLM)
 *   Commenting on Moscow agreement between the Afghan - mujaheddin leaders and the Soviet officials# The Nation says in its editorial 19 November that the apparent mujaheddin gains in the agreement are less than, tangible. Take, for example, the case of transfer of power. The agreement says that within a period of two years, from the date power is ^transferred to the mujaheddin, general elections will be held in Afghanistan under the aegis of the UN and the QIC. The operative clause in this is not the "elections" but the date. The Soviets are not going to ask Najib to transfer power. And even if they did, Najib is unlikely to listen. So when is that date to be. A year from now, or 10, years from now? If the mujaheddin want this date to be sooner than later, they will either have to defeat Najib or to negotiate with him. The former seems hard and the latter unacceptable to the mujaheddin. So where does it leave the practical side of the agreement? (NTN)
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 * Noor Ahmad Taqaddusi, the speaker of
 the ICCA,' has said that the agreement reached between the Afghan mujaheddin delegation and Soviet officials in Moscow had both positive and negative points which he described as- follows: '
 The positive results:
 - The Russians : officially recognized the mujaheddin.
 - They have said the interim Islamic government of Afghanistan can abrogate the agreements reached between the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime 4
 The negative points:
 - Keeping/Najibullah in power which is the main problem.
    The two years , duration for the interim government is too long. It should not be more than one year.
 (BBCFS)
 * Abd Rab Rasool ^Sayyaf, the AIG Prime Minister in a' statement has said in regard to the joint Afghan-Soviet declaration:
 - The Russians have no right to take part in decisions regarding the destiny of our pepple. A government being established with the Soviet consent though Islamic in nature, will resemble an imperialist umbrella casting its shadow over the Afghans.
 - Since, members of the future government will be selected through consultation with the Russians, they will pull an Islamic mask over the faces of infidels, thus bringing the US and Soviet agents into power.
 - According to their plan, Muslims and
 atheists both will take part in future, elections which is against Islamic principles and obeying such a government will be unlawful from Islamic point of view.          ^
 - Only a government established by the mujaheddin will be acceptable to the Afghan nation. (VOADS)
                  20
 *  The OIC Secretary General Hamid al-Gabid has said in a statement sent to Reuters in Cyprus that "a crucial stage has been reached in search - for an honorabl political settlement in fghanistan. Gabid said the OIC was willing to "play its due role together .with the UN in facilitating the process of the transfer of power in Afghanistan and to guarantee the authenticity and credibility of the process of transir tion". (PT)
 *  Following is the,/opinion of Dr. Abdul Rahman Ulfat, member of the Saudi Arabian Academy of Science, in regard to the Afghan-Soviet joint statement: Beside taking part in the Afghan reconstruction efforts,the Soviets must also pay war compensations, because other nations are also going to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanis--tan. Holding negotiations with the Soviet-officials is a positive step and tantamount to the loss of Kabul regime prestige. The negative point is that the talks have not covered every thing.
 (VOAPS)
 *  Dr. Mohammed YoUsuf ,N the former Prime Minister, says that until recently chances for a political settlement in Afghanistan were dim because the US and the Soviet Union were supplying the warring sides with weapons. Recent changes in world conditions have become conducive for a political settlement in Afghanistan. Since all concerned nations have supported the political settlement and the UN has submitted a plan acceptable to the majority of the nation, therefore all Afghans, and particularly those residing in the West, can now take effective steps in this direction. They must hold meetings and raise their voices for bringing
262
OCTOBER-DECEMBER
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 about peace in Afghanistan. They can ilso publicise the cause of political settlement ■ in the west and establish Contacts with the nations concerned and taka measures for an all Afghan meeting. (VOAPS)
 * A UN report on Afghanistan, issued 29 May,. 1991, spates that millions of US dollars allocated for Afghanistan under the SALAM Operation headed by Sadruddin Aga Khan, have not been accouhted for, The accounts indicate that; out of the 2.5 million dollar French aid, over two million dollars have been spent for the purchase of some equipment for humanitarian purposes. Another 750,000 dollars related to Afghan refugees have been spent for ; the welfare of the Turkish and Iraqi refugees. This all has happened to the great embarressment of Prince Aga Khan. (BBCPS)
 * A giant US Air Force aircraft t ra ns ported p ome 18,000 pounds of aid supplies to. the mujaheddin and refugees to' Pakistan 14 November. On its return trip,5 • the aircraft transferred some Afghan mujaheddin to the US who were injured in the battle-fields. (V0ADS)
 ♦The1 soviet daily Izvestia has published a Presidential decree saying that advisors of defense, interior and security ministries are being called back into ' the Soviet Union from Afghanistan. The paper said that President Gorbachev is also calling back those experts of SCUD and LUNA missile launchers who used to hit the mujaheddin controlled areas. The decision has been taken after last week Moscow talks between the Soviet officials and mujaheddin delegation headed by Burhanuddin Rabbani. (MLM)
 Rabbani said that the Soviets had made it clear that they have nothing to do with the time framework for the transfer of power, and the type of government in Afghanistan and it is the choice of the Afghan nation and people. He said that the mujaheddin told Moscow that under no circumstances they would tolerate the present puppet regime in Kabul. He said the Soviets have no objection on the installation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. However, he said, there is no reference in the talks about the installation of a kingdom in Afghanistan. He said, the first meeting of the joint commission of Afghan mujaheddin and Soviets will be held in Pakistan soon to implement the joint declaration agreed upon between the .two parties in Moscow- He said, "those who did. not participate in the talks should see the positive outcome of the recent talks and join us in the future talks". (PT)
 *  Dr. Hemmat, who is an active member
 of the resistance forces living in< Germany, has said a number of Afghans can travel to another locality and pave the way for others to travel and by this means make an intra-Afghan conference possible. The participants should then chalk Out a comprehensive plan or proposals for the solution of the Afghan problem for submission to concerned authorities or the UN. He said, the former King can also play a role for bringing peace to Afghanistan. If the King continues as before by keeping distance from the people his role will become less important. "By keeping contact with the UN and the (governments concerned," he said, "the Afghans can exert pressure for accelerating the process of restoration of peace in Afghanistan".  (V0APS)
 *  The "Unity, Independence and Demo-
                                          cracy" in Kabul has accused Najib of * Addressing-.a press conference in using the so called fear of a power va-> Islamabad 20 November, Burhanuddin cuum during the transitional period as
263
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 a pretext.He only wishes to prolong his . own rule by* postponing the peage process.’ The .movement says, it is the need of the hour to step up efforts for an orderly transitional administration. Government offices should be disconnected from the ruling party and party establishments should be detached from the government. The movement adds, as Soon as cease-fire is enforced, Na jib should hand over power to one of his neutral deputies.'(BBCPS)
 *  Dr. Abdul Samad Hamed, a former Deputy Premier, has said that by making use of the current facilities the Afghans can attain a political initiative and through free and general elections can achieve the aims of the revolution. He says, the activities can prove effective only when their work is not influenced by the intellectual group or the former high-ranking officials who have responded favorably to the . Soviet and Kabul regime proposals. (VOAPS)
 * Sadruddin Aga Khan, the former Chief Co-ordinator of UN assistance to Afghanistan has refuted allegations that he has misused funds allocated as assistance to the Afghan refugees. He has said, thorough investigation of operations in this respect will make it clear that these accusations were baseless. (VOADS)
 * Talking to The Muslim in Islamabad 21 November, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, has said that Pakistan will support the negative symmetry on Afghanistan only if the 5-point package offered by the US Secretary of State James Baker is implemented in letter and spirit. He said, the visit of a delegation pf Afghan mujaheddin to Moscow was for the implementation of the first point of the package namely transitional
mechanism. He said more high-level contacts between the concerned parties were expected in the near future to reach at a political settlement of the issue before the year was out. (MLM) .
*  Talking to journalists in the Par-
liament House in Islamabad 21 November, the Pakistan's Federal Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddique Kan ju, said that the visit of. an Afghan mujaheddin delegation to Moscow  was a major     step  towards a
peaceful political settlement of the Afghan problem1. He said, the joint statement issued at the end of the visit was a complete vindication of the valiant Afghan jehad. (PT)
*  In an interview with VOA, Pakistan
Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, has described as positive and a   new step the •  talks in Moscow
between the Afghan mujaheddin leaders and the Soviet officials, adding there were bright prospects of more headqay in this regard. He      said  that the
transfer of power to the interim government from the Kabul regime will make the new administration enjoy complete powers• This is a decision of recognizing the interim government, he said. However, he stressed the heed for the inter-Afghan dialogue between the parties involved in the Afghan, war.
(pt) ■              •                   :
*  Briefing newsmen at the Foreign
Office in Islamabad, 21 November Pakistan's Foreign Secretary, Shahryar Khan,   has described    the  visit of
mujaheddin delegation to Moscow as an "important and very positive development" for the solution of Afghan issue. He said, the joint statement issued at: the end of talks between mujaheddin delegation and Soviet authorities is vindication of Pakistan's stand on; Afghan is t an, which wil 1 be pav i ng the way for political settlement of Afghan issue. (MLM)
264
qctober-december, 1991 A[GIIAN JtHAfl
 *   Addressing a (press conference in Peshawar 21 November, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, leader of Daye Ittehad-e-Islami Afghanistan, said the recent visit of; a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow was a tremendous success, reports ANA... He said due to the internal; problems, the Soviet Union was anxious to withdraw its hands from the soaring wound of Afghanistan. That is why the Soviets have officially condemned their armed intervention in Afghanistan and agreed on the formation of an Islamic government there accept-table to the mujaheddin which will hold elections within two years. He told newsmen that during their stay in Moscow, the delegation also met leaders of a number of Muslim states of Soviet Union and. the Foreign Minister of Tadjakistan announced in the meeting
• that ' henceforth they would not allow the passage of Soviet military arsenal to Kabul through their soil. (MLM)
 *   Pakistan Ambassador to the UN, Jamshed Marker, said in New York 21 November that his country had been "very satisfied" with the on-going UN operation aimed at aiding the Afghan refugees and rebuilding Afghanistan. (MLM)
 *  Zaher Tamin, member of the Central Committe of the ruling party in Kabul has said regarding the fuel cut-off to the Kabul regime, "in ray opinion the Kabul regime will still be able to continue the war efforts as long as the opposition has hot given up military activities". When asked whether the Moscow agreement between the mujaheddin and Soviet officials will be considered as the end of the Soviet support of the Kabul regime, he said, "I think it is
 directed, toward? the creation of a transitional period, peace and general
 elections in which power will assume a
 new concept with all the forces taking part. (BBCFS)
VOL. 5 NO. 1
                                               23
 * Sayyed Fazal Akbar, former Chief Of Afghan Documents and Information says,
 ..if the mujaheddin political and military status is studied we shall come to the conclusion that they have not scored much in either. The mujaheddin did not advance much-neither in ' Gardaiz nor in Jalalabad. They succeeded to establish coalition in the past, formed .alliances, established the interim government _ and formed commanders or tribal councils. All this was achieved with a clear conscience by Afghans themselves. But later on when the foreigners intervened the jehad was diverted from its principal path and assumed a path not in the interest of Afghanistan. (VOAPS)
 * Despite all efforts, the conflict was. still going on in Afghanistan and there have been reliable reports about torture under interrogation, Felix Ermacora, Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights in Afghanistan, told the UN General Assembly's Social Committee 21 November. Reviewing the situation of Afghanistan since the decision concerning the withdrawal of Soviet troops, he said in his seventh report since 1984 that no significant change was reported in the situation of over six million Afghan refugees, a "human rights problem in . itself",. The extent to which refugees were* able to enjoy economic, social and cultural rights was diminishing due to the decrease in’ international humanitarian assistance. The number of refugees, including children who had been born in refugee camps, was more than a third of Afghanistan population, he said. Acts of terrorism, such as rocket attacks on civilians, use of mines, and detonation of other explosives, resulted iri hundreds of civilian deaths in violation of the Geneva Conventions. The fate of political prisoners was "alarming", and included allegations of
265
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 HIIiIIHIv JlllllU               VOL- 5 NO- 1
    torture, such as the use of electric shocks, severe beatings, cigarette burns and sleSp deprivation. In certain cases, the report • said, torture was alleged ter have lasted for weeks. The practice of complete isolation during interrogation was incontestable. The report recommends that the UN supervised elections, ceasefire and demining were preconditions for the return of' refugees and the international community should assist in preparing ,a repatriation plan, (PT)
                                                24
    * The Soviet Union has speeded up its withdrawal of combat experts from Afghanistan, diplomatic sources said in Kabul 22 November. The recall of sbme 300 military advisors, including experts operating surface-to-surface missiles and training Afghan army personnel in their use, was being expedited, a Soviet diplomatic source told AFP. "We are speeding up things", the source said. At least two AN-12's left Kabul 21 November and there were more such flights from the capital's military airport 22 November. (PT)
    * The office Of All Commanders Council reports that the commanders held a meeting near Khbst 20 November and discussed a number of important issues, including the Afghan-Soviet agreement reached In Moscow. Contrary to other mujaheddin commander, Jalaluddin Haqqa-ni opposed and disapproved! the trip by the mujaheddin delegation to Moscow. Mohammad Younus Qanooni, incharge of the political affairs of the council and a JIA member, however, did not
*   oppose the trip. The council's office states that well-known Commanders such as Mawlawi jalaluddin Haqqahi, Qari Baba, Ha ji Abdul Haq, Mawlawi Arsala Rahmani, Abdur Rasool Akhundzadah, Amin Wardak, Mohammad Younus Qanooni and representatives from Ahmad Shah Masood,
*   Esm.ail Khan and Sayyed Jagran had participated in the meeting. (VOAPS)
 *  The JIA office reports that the mujaheddin captured the Daulatabad district, Balkh Province 7 November after a fierce and prolonged battle. The Kabul Regime, however, started a vast ground offensive supported by the air forge, to recapture the district 19 NovemberSo far 30 mujaheddin; have; been killed and 200 wounded in these fightings which also include locals• (VOAPS)
                 25
 *  The Secretary States and Frontier Regions Division, Dil Jan Khan, on behalf of the Government of .Pakistan, signed an accord with WFP in Islamabad 24; November for supply of food to Afghan refugees * The food assistance includes wheat, edible oil, dried skimmed milk, etc. (PT)
 *  The UN refuted 22 November charges
 of misuse, of funds in its humanitarian
\ • ' . • .
 relief operation in Afghanistan- also known as Operation "SALAM"- reports APP. iNTN)
 *  The Kabul regime has made contradictory statements about eye-witness accounts saying an Iranian transport plane air-dropped tons, of food supplies directly into a Shia mu jaheddin-held area- of central Afghanistan, A regime Foreign ~Ministry spokesmen, in Kabul# however, said he had no information about such a flight and that "no plane could e.nter Afghan airspace without prior permission from , the Civil Aviation authorities". Civil Aviation Minister, Wadir Safi., said, that he understood a plane had air-dropped supplies over Bamian airstrip and that permission had come straight, from the Defense and:Foreign Ministries after he had initially refused it. He said the Iranians first proposed that they should fly directly to Bamian three months ago. He said, he refused, pointing out that "as~ the Kabul regime
266
OCTOBER-DECEMBER.
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 planes land there themselves, the Iranians should not be allowed to land their planes". Diplomats said the direct flights represented considerable increase of Iranian ' influence in central provinces of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 ■ * The Iranian authorities have carried out a massive air-dropping operation in Bam£an province during the past three days, says a statement issued to Al-Bunyan News Service 24 November by a representative of r the Commanders' Council of Afghan Mujaheddin. "This large-scale violation. of Afghan airspace in the garb of so-called food deliveries to the Shia population of Afghanistan in the Hazarajat region, is an open act of aggression against Afghan sovereignty and independence. This is not any friendly act, but is a sheer act of political and military adventurism on the part of the Iranian Government which has her own ambitions against the Afghans. The criminal silence and utter helplessness of Kabul regime which has secretly sanctioned the Iranian operation with the active blessings of the Russians speaks volumes about its true puppet nature", the Statement said. (NTN)
 * Commenting on Afghan mujaheddin's Moscow visit',, the daily Nawa—i—Waqt in i:s editorial 25 November says it has t eer. successful from the standpoint that both sides have been rational in agreeing on certain matters. In this atmosphere, the mujaheddin have announ- . cedi to release some Soviet ROWS by the end of this year or the beginning of next year. According to Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Soviet Union has also promised to withdraw its military advisors and the support of Najibullah regime. Russian Foreign Minister has already expressed willingness for the establishment of an interim Afghan government. This shows that the Soviet Union has not only realized to rectify its past doings but to have a peaceful Afghanistan at its neighbourhood, Let
 us hope the Soviet Union Will fulfill its responsibilities regarding the establishment of peace and reconstruction of Afghanistan. (NWT)
 * Mohammad Hasan Wolusmal editor of an Afghan newspaper published in Norway has said about the mujaheddin visit to Moscow that it had both pisitive and negative points. The only positive point is that for the first
 time the mujaheddin held direct meeting with the Russians, but the following are its negative, points:      (1)   The
 delegation was not strong'enough as it did not represent the entire Afghan
 nation; even some of the Peshawar-based organizations were not included, (2) no Afghan political figures had taken part
 in the talks, (3) the joint statement says the mujaheddin will release some Soviet POWs,     in’ lieu    of   Soviet
 withdrawal of its advisors from Afghanistan. The objection here being that there, is no source at all to ensure- that the Kabul regime will not be assisted through the Hairatan river port. (4) the political situation, in the Soviet Union is, not stable; as an example, the Foreign .Minister who met the mujaheddin,delegation in Moscow and conducted talks with them no longer holds his post. (5) the mujaheddin delegation had demanded at the beginning that the Russians apply pressure on Najib to quit; this demand was not heeded by the Soviets, (6) at the start of the talks the delegation had demanded $     100  billion as   war
 reparation, but there is no mention of it in the joint declaration. (VOADS)
 * Reports from Afghanistan state that Najib, the Kabul regime leader, has issued instructions to take a census of orphaned children in Afghanistan. , The plan is aimed at assisting the orphans and controlling crimes. The UN may be requested to assist the orphans*
 (BBCPS)
 267
   ' I
october-december. 1991 AflillAflJfHAO           vol. 5 no. 1
              26
 *   In an interview with APP in Islamabad 25 November, the Minister of States arid Frontier Regions, Sardar Yaqub Khan Nasir, said 216,000 Afghan refugees have returned to their, homeland since July 1990. To a question he said there were 3.22 million registered and 464,000 unregistered Afghan refugees in Pakistan. The Minister said, donor agencies have drastically reduced their food support program resulting in the shortage of 750#000 tons of wheat till December 1990. This was provided from the country's reserves, he added. (MLM)
 *   During his meetings with different Afghan leaders in Islamabad, Peter Tom^en, US envoy > to the AIG, has conveyed the US assurance that it would not withdraw its support to the Afghan mujaheddin arid will continue to strive for a peaceful and political solution of the Afghan problem, sources told The Muslim 25 November. The US is taking an active interest in the next round of talks between Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet Union next month; Sources said that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Younus Khales have made it clear they would not participate in the second round of talks if they are not assured of Najib's ouster before hand. (MLM) *
*   The Nation has learnt that a neighbour Muslim country, in order to impose like-minded administration on Afghanistan, had made a detailed planning against a radical Afghan leader. For the removal of this resistance leader, an eminent mujahed commander, supervising mujaheddin's activities in the Northern Afghanistan, has already visited that country and agreed to offers for supporting his faction's efforts to remove the leader in question. The sources said, accor-
would first launch attacks against the partymen of the resistance leader in Takhar, Parwan, Kabul and Laghman provinces. They also compromised on killing of the resistance leader. In this connection, the . commander has launched attacks on the partymen of resistance leader recently in Daulatabad. The commander is reportedly said to have been informing the Najibullah regime about arms depots and sensitive positions of mujaheddin which had later beeri bombed by the Kabul aircraft '. During a battle. of Daulatabad, the commander bombed the positions of partymen of the radical with the help of Najibullah regime. To save the life of the resistance leader, Senator Qazi .Hussain Ahmed, Chief of JI of Pakistan has accelerated his efforts and called on a number of Afghan resistance leaders for convincing them/to avoid their internal differences for the sake of Afghan cause. He is reported to have met in this connection with Burhanuddin Rabbani, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf. (NTN)
   i                             . ‘
* Regarding the mujaheddin delegation's visit to Moscow and the joint statement issued at the end of their talks with the Soviets, , Dr. Rawari Farhadi, a former diplomat has said, the trip marks an outstanding event in the history of the Afghan jehad as a result 6f which the Afghan resistance forces have earned themselves a'better position than the previous years. He said that the mention in the joint statement of recalling the Soviet military. advisors back to Moscow is a positive point. The mention of war compensations during the negotiations, he said, would form a firm and historical basis for the future. • He added, "the damage done by the Russians to Afghanistan is surely more than the sum mentioned in the talks. The reconstruction of Afghanistan, which will
268
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 RiflllAN JtHAil                 VOL. 5 NO. 1
take some 20 years, will require many times this figure and will pose tremendous difficulties for future governments. (VOADS)
*  Eng. Aziz Ahmad Osmani, was killed 25 November in University Town, Peshawar when he was driving to his office. Zia Mohammad, the driver of IRC, said that shots were fired from a car in front of them injuring Osmani in the head and abdomin. Osmani was in charge of IRC English language courses in Peshawar since 1986. (VOADS)
*  Abdul Satar Seerat, a former Justice Minister in Afghanistan, commenting oh Afghan-Soviet dialogue and the subsequent joint declaration said, "the resistance forces who were called by various unsuitable names by the Soviet propaganda machinery for long years were finally received by the same people as the Afghan mujaheddin. The word 'mujaheddin* has been mentioned many times in the joint statement which is a clear proof of the jehad legitimacy. (VOAPS) *
*   Khan Abdul Wall Khan, leader of National Awami Party, while welcoming the Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet negotiations in Moscow, has said the Afghan problem could not be solved, by force and negotiations were the only way to its solution. He said, he travelled many times between Moscow, New Delhi and Kabul in an effort to seek a political settlement for the Afghan issue. Wall Khan said, "it is great to hear that nations which set fire to Afghanistan have now come to the conclusion that the problem can be solved by peaceful mfeans. It is very uiifortunate that leaders of the Afghan refugees, who do not unite on any important matter,- did not form unity among themselves .On this matter either. Some of them went away and some stayed here. But we feel that there is no way out than the political solution". (VOAPS)
 * UN officials in Tehran say that the Iranian government has given permission to a number of experienced western relief organizations to work in Iran in connection with Afghan and Iraqi refugees and has also invited them to attend a conference to be held in Meshed at the beginning of next year. The UN has also been given permission to open its regional office in Meshed. Omar Baheed, the acting UN High Commissioner for Refugees has said in Tehran that the measure will remove obstacles for their operations. He said, the step is very valuable for the international community and an indication of Iran's appreciation of their work. (BBCFS)
                 27
 * The .Soviet Ambassador in Islamabad, Victor Yakunine, held separate meetings in Peshawar with AIG Acting Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani and the Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, '26 November. The talks focused on issues of mutual interest, , especially the recent Moscow talks between mujaheddin and the Soviet authorities. The Soviet envoy was pleased with the results of Moscow talks and welcome^ mujaheddinis measures to establish the joint committee envisioned in the joint communique.
     Hekmatyar told the Soviet Ambassador that the release of POWs was related to the package settlement of the Afghanistan problem. He said, if the Soviet Union Releases a list of the Afghan POWs, the mujaheddin would also do so. He told the Soviet envoy that the number of mujaheddin POWs held by the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime was more than.the Soviet POWs. The fate of. hundreds of thousands of Afghans made prisoners by the Red Army during their occupation of Afghanistan was not certain even now, he said.
     Later addressing a press confer-
269
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AIGIIllilJIIIAII               VOL.  5 NO. 1
 ence, Hekmatyar said that Moscow was not sincere and serious about the settlement of the Afghan issue and was interested only in the release of Soviet POWs. He said that 40-50 Soviet planes loaded with ammunition were landing at Kabul Airport daily. He said, the Kabul regime would have collapsed by now had it not enjoyed Washington's blessings and not, received US aid through Moscow, It was mainly due to Moscow-Washington collusion coupled with Western conspiracies that the Najibullah regime still existed. He said that the ever biggest chunk of weapons given to .Kabul by Moscow was Supplied by the USA.
      Hekmatyar . regretted that Iran had chosen a special' section and supplied relief assistance by air to it. He said that Iran had convinced the people of this area not to fight aga!inst Najib. He isaid, that Iran tried to act as a mediator in the move of formation of coalition between the nationalists and communists. He said that, if Iran. followed1such a policy, it Would be its' mistake. (PT)
 * Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 26 November Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, presented a new formula for setting up an interim government in Afghanistan before holding a ceasefire, This government will replace the Najibullah regime and hold general polls within six months. Ex-King Zaher Shah and Najibullah would not be given representation in the proposed government* He said the Russian leaders had stopped the supply of goods to Kabul but it was restored on the. directives of America. The Afghan leader said "under a well-pianned, conspiracy, Western countries want to prevent the mujaheddin to set up their own government". In this connection, he informed newsmen about Western countries' contacts with ex-King Zaher Shah. Similarly in order to fulfill these designs, America has sent Zai
 Nasri to Kabul and after hectic efforts he succeeded to demonstrate in favor of ex-King. "The Western countries have no right to impose their like-minded persons on the Afghan people", he said. (NTN)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has said in a press conference that HIA would not release the Soviet POWs unless and until a political solution for the Afghan issuo is found, out. He advised the7 mujaheddin not to release the POWs until the permanent solution of the problem. Regarding negotiatipns with the Soviet Union, he said that for talks with the Soviets there should be specific pre.-conditions • Hekmatyar said that he is not sure of the Soviet sincerity during thie present talks 'and blamed the Russians for preventing the establishment of an interim government in Kabul. (BBCFS)
 * Inaugurating Operation SALAM program for 1992 Benon Sevan, representative of the UN Secretary General, has said there is no alternative to a political solution in Afghanistan. "It is time that everyone recognized this, as the time fOr miracles is over and there is no escape to a political dialogue", he said. It is now time to think of transitional period. Personal ambitions should be put aside and the Afghans should! decide. In my cai^e I have to face reality, he said. The common average Afghan is fed up of war. If any one is silent he is afraid of talking, he s4id. He perried a ' guerry which asked him to identify those who, he thought, were afraid. He said that unless there was stability in Afghanistan the whole region would' remain destabilized and consequently all the neighbours would be sucked in. "Even the destruction of Kabul cannot bring a final settlement", he said. (NTN)
270
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 HFlillANJ[HAD                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
  * Akram Zaki, Secretary General for
  Foreign Affairs, Victor Yukonin, Soviet envoy in Islamabad and Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's special envoy, held detailed talks with the Peshawar-based Afghan resistance leaders in Peshawar 27 November for resolving the Afghan problem. For the first time since 1979, Peshawar-based Afghan Consul was also present in the talks (stet). Akram Zaki has held detailed talks with' the Peshawar-based resistance leaders, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Pir Syed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Qazi Mohammad Amin Wegad, Hashmatullah Mujaddedi and others in the Governor House. It was also learnt that Akram Zaki held a separate meeting with those who did not visit the Soviet Union and tried to convince them to attend  the   second   round of the
  Soviet-mujaheddin talks. (NTN)
  * In an interview to Monthly Jehad-e-Kashmir in Peshawar the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has said that foreign. poweirs were trying to protect Najibullah's rule in Afghanistan and if that was not possible they would try to bring in someone else1 acceptable to the US. He said, the Afghans would under no circumstances accept Zaher Shah* (NWT)
  * The Russian Government is sending reinforcement to Kabul regime troops in Herat via Kushk and military supplies are also reaching at Herat Airport through transport planes. Meanwhile, in an ambush on an armored unit the Afghan mujaheddin destroyed one tank and killed regime troops near Zindajan in the west of Herat 23 November, (NWT)
 * The UN has demanded one hundred million dollars and many hundred tons of wheat to implement its programs in Afghanistan* Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General personal envoy, says that Afghanistan is in a pitiable situation and is in dire need of
 assistance more than ever in the past. He said, over two million persons were killed , in the Afghan war, arable lands destroyed and the mortality rate among children has risen to a level comparable with only few nations in the world,,. (VOAPS) '
                                                                           ‘ 1
 *  Mirwais Jalil, an Afghan reporter says, the mujaheddin are strengthening their positions in Banozai, Zormat and Sayyed Karam in Paktia in preparation for a fresh attack on Gardaiz. Regarding the mujaheddin strategy, he said, in their meeting at Miranshah the commanders have decided to ocoupy Gardaiz before the winter. He said, KHAD, police and the military establishments at Banozai were placed under severe pressure and seem as if totally destroyed. He added that it was possible that many government buildings inside Gardaiz were also destroyed.
 (BBCPS)
 *  Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of
 NIFA, said regarding the visit of the mujaheddin delegation to Moscow "we should take such steps in the future to enable us to implement the agreements reached at in Moscow. I am pleased with the visit which was a positive step. We must take appropriate steps for the overthrow of the present regime and the establishment of an Islamic government ' in its place"                         '
      Regarding the Loya Jirgah he said, "we have constituted a commission to enable us converne a jirgah which would enable us to have representation from the entire Afghan nation and to decide on the form of the future government. (BBCPS)
                 29
 *   Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 28 November after a series of talks with the Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders, Akram Zaki, Pakis-
271
OCTOBER-DECEMBER- 1991       (NGIMNill Will            VOL- 5 NO- 1
 tan's Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, said that it was now the responsibility of Afghan mujaheddin parties to avail themselves of the golden opportunity and prepare the sketch of an interim Islamic government to take over in Afghanistan, He said it was their effort to ensure maximum participation of mujaheddin parties in the process of political settlement and his talks in Peshawar had revolved round that point. He said that it was a difficult problem coupled with complications but it was a historic process which had begun and would lead to its end. Akram Zaki said that it had never been a successful principle that go-ahead should be started only if every one gave green signal. "We should go by majority in democracy", he added. He dispelled the impression that Pakistan wanted to impose a government of its own choice adding that even the British and the Soviet Union were unable to impose governments of their own choice in the past on the Afghans. (PT)
 *  A task force- of Afghan mujaheddin will convene in Islamabad 2-5 December to work out in consultation with the mujaheddin leaders, a plan for* the solution of the Afghanistan issue. The sponsors have said in a press release they hope to formulate through this task force a formula acceptable to all mujaheddin organizations. They said the absence of a joint mujaheddin formula for unseating the present Kabul regime and replacing it by an interim administration supported by all credible Muslims sections of the Afghan population was the* main stumbling block for bringing peace to Afghanistan and ending the miseries of the people. (PT)
 *  The ruling Watan Party in Kabul has withdrawn its financial backing for Akhbar-e-Hafta (weekly news), the biggest circulation pfo-moderate newspaper in Kabul, effectively closing it down. The paper did not appear 28
 November. The newspaper, which recently published articles by members of internal and external opposition groups, is the third newspaper closed down by the ruling party within a year. (NTN)
 *  More than *150 Kabul regime troops
 have so far been killed and injured in fighting raging for the past five days between the regime troops and the Afghan mujaheddin in Daulatabad, Balkh, reports ANA.    The mujaheddin     have
 blunted and     repulsed    the   major
 Operation launched with the support of airforce and heavy artillery by the Kabul regime    troops to recapture
 Daulatabad. One hundred civilians and 18 mujaheddin have also been killed in Kabul regime's indiscriminate bombing and shelling. (JG)
 *  The NIFA mujaheddin captured two Russians at Torghundi, north-western Afghanistan ll November, who had crossed the border to - Afghanistan*. Apparently this is the first time after the withdrawal of Soviet troops that Russians are captured by mujaheddin group. (BBCPS)
 *  A meeting has been held in Islamabad for resolving the Afghan problem in which a number of Afghans are participating. Farooq Azam, one of the participants, said regarding the meeting, "in the meeting which will be in- session from 2 to 5 December, some 70 ulama, mujaheddin, tribal elders and mujaheddin leaders have been invited. The meeting will aim at formulating a comprehensive program for the solution of the Afghan issue without intervention or pressure from the outside". (BBCPS)
                 30
,* In a comment on press briefing by Akram Zaki, Pakistan's Secretary Gene-, ral for Foreign Affairs, that there would be no role for Najibullah in the interim government .in Afghanistan and
272
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL- 5 NO- 1
that the Soviet Union has also decided to recognize an Islamic government there, the daily Jang said in an editorial 30 .November that with the conditions being most favorable and circumstances so conducive the opportunity should not be missed. The Afghan mujaheddin should keep in mind that success on the battlefield has to be consolidated oh the table. The differences of their tribal trait and temperament should not impede the solution of the Afghan problem. (JG)
                                                     DECEMBER
                                   1
* In a statement issued to ANA 28 November, the leader of HIA, Hekmatyar, said that the Iranian interference in Afghanistan was! part of the secret agreement reached between Iran and the US during the Gulf War and instigated Shia community in southern Iraq against their government.. Iran refused the return of Iraqi planes that were forced to land at the Iranian soil as part of the Tehran-Washington agreement, he said. In response to the Iranian assistance to the Americans in the Gulf War, the US pledged to give Iran extraordinary concessions in Afghanistan ^nd allow it* to play an active role in the Afghan affairs. It was for this reason that soon after the conclusion of the Gulf War, the Iranians embarked on an active role in Afghanistan. He said that some circles in Pakistan who had a soft shoulder for the US also tried to give a number of concessions to the pro-Iranian parties in Afghanistan and made attempts for giving representation to such parties in the Shoora and future government of Afghanistan beyond their actual strength. Hekmatyar said, if Najib is providing an oppportunity to Iranians for assisting the Hazarajat by dropping air supplies, its sole aim is to take the sectarian prejudices to its peak and create another chance for
the survival of Najib's regime. (PT)
*   The AIG Acting Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, in a statement in Peshawar 30 November said that Iranian authorities had not entered into any kind of secret deal with Kabul regime and they dropped’ the food items in Afghanistan purely on humanitarian grounds. (NTN)
*   Addressing a gathering of the mujaheddin in Peshawar 30 November, Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said it is very strange that the US was calling for the extradition of two Libyans whom they accuse of . downing of US plane three years ago and in case of default they would take revenge from the Libyan government and nation. He said if this bullying and unacceptable demand is to be met, then the Americans must not be exceptional either and they must hand over those. American officers who had shot down an Iranian passenger plane a few years back over the Gulf so that they are tried in the Iranian Courts and to find out that the command of shooting the Iranian passenger plane had been issued from the White House or elsewhere. (NTN)
                               ' . v
*   A sum of 7.5 million Saudi Riyals has been transferred to the Saudi Committee of Red Cross in Pakistan for assisting Afghan mujaheddin and refugees. (NTN)
*   * Leaders of the three major resistance groups meeting in Peshawar 30, November reached a consensus on a number of issues of crucial importance pertaining to the solution of the Afghanistan problem. They included Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Burhanuddin Rabbani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad!. The leaders were, however, tight-lipped about the details of this new agreement saying that the plan was yet tp be discussed with other mujaheddin parties. HIA sources said
273
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 AfOIIAIf JIIIAO
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 that if the new plan was implemented# it would participate in the forthcoming second round of Soviet-Resistance talks. (MLM)
 *   Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special envoy for Afghanistan, will leave Peshawar for Moscow 1 December, UN sources said in Islamabad 30 November. During Sevan's 48-hour stay in the Soviet capital, discussions will be particularly held on the peace process which has accelerated in recent weeks and the eventual releasevof POWs, the sources said. An AFP report said, after Moscow, Sevan will return to Washington "where more meetings are' expected". (MLM)
 *  The AL-BUNYAN news agency reports
 that a bomb went off at the Abu Bakr Siddiq educational institute 30 November at a time when some students and their friends had gathered to review the current situation in Afghanistan/. In the incident which occurred in Pabbi, near Peshawar, one student was killed. An instructor and Mawlawi Kefayatullah, a member of the Tanzim-e-Ittehad-e-Afghanistan      were
 seriously injured. (BBCPS)
 *   Eyewitnesses arriving in Peshawar from Kabul say that the Kabul citizens are facing tremendous difficulties as regards prices of consumer commodities. They say, an aspirn tablet costs Afs. 50, a seer of flour (7 Kgs) Afs. 2,500, a gallon petrol Afs. 4,000, of diesel Afs. 2,-700 and a seer of fire-wood
 1,000 afghanis. (VOAPS)
 * UN officials in Tehran say that tens of thousands of persons who have left their homes in central Afghanistan because of Scarcity of food supplies are just arriving in Iran. The Iranian officials have estimated the number of those who have newly arrived in Iran between 35,000 and 40,000. (BBCFS)
 * In a recent conference at Quetta on
 the role of the under-privileged nationalities in future Afghanistan, Ghulam Ali Haidari, speaker of New Hazara Generation Party said, over
 2,000 persons had participated in the conference which ended with the adoption of a resolution some of the salient paints of which are as follows:
     the need for the cultural and educational jehad.
 - Appreciates the assistance given by Islamic countries and calls for urgent humanitarian aid to central regions.
    calls on local experts, engineers and medical doctors to step up their activities in harmony with jehadic groupsk
     Support the role of women in education and their right to take part in elections. (VOADS)
                                                     2
 *  Fatana, the wife of Kabul regime
 ruler, Najibullah, has left Afghanistan for France and relatives of Najibullah are also managing to leave the country. A close relative of Najib, who did not want to be identified, told MIDIA*that Najib bought a villa in France recently and intends to leave for that country via India. (PT)
 *  Talking to The Pakistan Times at
 national day reception hosted by the Romanian Ambassador in Islamabad 1 December, Akram Zaki, Pakistan Secretary General Foreign Affairs, said that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar,leader of HIA, was likely to join, the current moves for political settlement of Afghanistan. (PT)
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin foiled 26 November an attempt by the Kabul regime planes to destroy their .positions at
.Jungl Khel near Ghazni. Twenty-six
274
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 women and children were killed in the bombing. Meanwhile, the mujaheddin captured /a military post of an army camp at Tolak town in Ghor province 24 November killing five regime troops arid capturing a large quantity of arms and ammunition. (NWT)
. * An American journalist who has extensively covered the Afghan war,, Bruce Wilson says:
 -  Foreign intervention in Afghanistan is a matter for concern.
 -  Cutting arms supply is not enough; activities of Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and China must be watched.,
 -  The war in Kunar is the result of Arab efforts for introducing the "Wahabi" religion in Afghanistan.
 -  By flying its aircraft inside the Afghan territory in the name * of humanitarian assistance is a show of power.
    Pakistan is interested that the. Pashtunistan issue is never again taken up.
    Whichever mujaheddin , organization conquers Kabul, will capture large amounts' of arms, therefore, struggles on the part of each individual) organization to this end is a matter of concern.
    The only way to stop foreign intervention is for the Afghans to settle the matter themselves. (VOADS)
 *  Najib, President of the Kabul regime, says he has released over
 20,000  political prisoners eversince 1988. (Tadjikistan Radio)
                    3
 *  The Vice President of the Russian Federation, Rustkoi, alongwith a high-powered delegation will pay an official
 visit to Pakistan from 19 December to attend the first meeting of the joint commission formed by Afghan mujaheddin and Soviets, well placed sources said in Islamabad. The talks will, focus on implementing the joint declaration agreed upon between the mujaheddin and Soviets in Moscow last month. Among major issues to be discussed during the talks would be release of .Soviet POWs held by Afghan mujaheddin. The Russian Vice President will stay in Islamabad for two days. (MLM)
 *   Iran is planning to host another . conference with Afghan mujaheddin and
 Pakistan, diplomats said in Kabul 1 December. "The conference will aim to bring the mujaheddin leaders closer so that a consensus leadership emerges before the peace process iri Afghanistan gets under way", said an Asian diplomat. "The conference dates have not yet been fixed, but it will be held very soon", an Iranian diplomat said. (PT)              /
 *  Talking to newsmen in. Peshawar .2 December, Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of JIA said,, it is our Islamic obligar tion to continue our jehad till the final victory and we are npt like those who put down the arms and hold dp the branches of the olive tree as a sign of peace. (PT)
 *   The Kabul regime militia and the regime secret agency KHAD were locked in a battle - in the strategic city of Gardaiz with both sides using tanks and heavy weapons in the battle. The fighting started 1 December end was continuing 2 December. Both sides are reported to have suffered heavy casualties.' Meanwhile, six regime high officials were killed 30 November in shelling by the mujaheddin, reports Radio Gardaiz. Dozens of regime troops were also killed. A regime tank was destroyed near Banozai. (JG)
* Sabahuddin -Kushkaki, founding member-
275
OCTOBER-DECEMBER/ 1991   AfRIIANJ[HA0                  VOL- 5 NO- 1
 of the CCAR arid former Minister of Information a!nd Culture, in a seminar in Islamabad held on the initiative of some Afghans seeking an alternative for an interim government said, it was the aim of the seminar to formulate a plan based on the interests of the jehad and acceptable to the mujaheddin. He said, "the plan will be for the transitional government only and the seminar will have to study and analyze its implementation, During the seminar partici-rpants will submit their proposals which will be studied by a Coordination committee for selecting an acceptable plan". Kushkaki added, "unfortunately we have been unable.to formulate a plan uptil now, otherwise, there would be no need   to convene .these    sessions. The
 plan  submitted by the commanders    was
 not implemented and that proposed by the UN Secretary General,. which envisaged an intra-Afghan dialogue, is not acceptable to the mujaheddin. They argue that they will never be prepared to sit with■ Najib around a conference table. We believe there are other Afghans besides Najib and Watan party who are good Muslims and committed to the cause of jehad. We are here to submit a plan for the latter group and members of the seminar are busy working on it. (BBCFSj
                    4         .0 .
 * During  two-houi long  meeting with
 Afghan mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad
 3 December, President Ghulam Ishaq Khan
 impressed upon them to seize the
 opportunity for a political settlement
 of Afghanistan. He/ said, they needed to • )                                 t
 forge a broad consensus and enter xnto
 serious negotiations to promote such a
 settlement which was in the vital
 interest of Afghanistan and Pakistan as/
 well as of a stable and better future
 for the region. He said the process
 initiated in Moscow talks needed to be
 carried forward during the expected
 visit of the Vice President of the Russian Federation,. Alexander RUtskoiv The mujaheddin leaders agreed with the President's point of view and assured him of their ’ resolve to intensify efforts for a just political settlement in cooperation with the OIC and the UN. About the POWs issue. President Ghulam Ishaq Khan urged the mujaheddin leaders to approach it from a humanitarian point of view and take immediate steps for its resolution. The leaders who attended the meeting are: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Pir Syed Ahmad Gailani, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Mohammad Asef Mohseni, Qazi Mohammad Amin Weqad, Eng. Ahmed Shah, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and Mawlawi Samiullah. (PT)
 *  Talking to Jang 3 December, Pakistan's Foreign Secretary, Shahryar Khan has said that during talks between mujaheddin leaders and the President and the Prime Minister in Islamabad, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, - Chief of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan, has agreed to abide by Moscow accord and join negotiations starting 19 December in Islamabad between Soviet Vice President, Rutskoi, and Afghan mujaheddin. He said'that consensus, has also been reached to establish1 for ohe year a broad-based transitional government in Afghanistan to hold elections and transfer power to an elected government. The President and the Prime Minister of the transitional government would not be eligible to take part in general elections, he said. (JG)
 * According to sources, all the; Afghan
 mujaheddin leaders would accompany the Prime Minister of Pakistan on his journey to Dakar, Senegal, 7 December where the OIC summit is being held. They would meet leaders of the Islamic world and present their viewpoint to them on the          occasion. The Prime
 Minister had offered them to accompany him and. the offer was accepted by all
276
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 the leaders. (MLM)
 *  In a press statement circulated in
 Peshawar by Al-Bunyan News Service (ANS) the AIG Prime Minister, Abd Rab RaSool Sayyaf, has rejected the proposal for setting up a coalition government in Afghanistan adding that, in such circumstances, both the US and Soviet Union will have a free hand in nominating their own people on the v basis of mutual consultations. He said that "the list presented to us consists of certain individuals whom we know, very well.. A large number of them are the people who are directly responsible for the devastation and ruination of Afghanistan". He said that through such so-called government they wanted to induct atheists and infidels into the government; About Moscow Accord he said that in the accord the righ to nullify treaties had been snatched from the mujaheddin as well as the future Islamic government of Afghanistan which might take power a£ a result of elections and instead the planned interim government had been entrusted with this vital task. This interim government, he said, was going to have Soviet agents as its members and would give protection to treaties signed between Afghanistan and Soviet Union from 1978-1991. Similarly, holding of general elections was a decision of the communists, he said. Prof. Sayyaf said that the armed jehad in Afghanistan was launched for the greater glory of Islam and forming an Islamic government. "We must not allow ourselves to be swayed away from the basic injunctions of Islam    in  the name of       political
 expediency", he said. (NTN) *
 * Masood Khalili, political adviser to JIA, who was a member of the Afghan delegation to Moscow, says the talks began seriously with the mujaheddin leaders. The mujaheddin were explaining their aims to the Soviet side with full earnest and stood firm on. their
 positions. The Russians reciprocated by explaining their stand. He said, there are two ways to solve the Afghan problem, (1) by the application of the five-point UN peace plan and (2) by negotiating with the Russians. He said, though the UN and the OIC cooperation was necessary, during the talks with the Soviets it was felt that work by joint Mujaheddin-Russian Committee could prove effective. (BBCPS)
 *   The Turkmenistan Foreign Minister stated that they had a 900 kilometer long common border with their neighbor Afghanistan and they were developing economic and cultural relations with border areas in Afghanistan. "We will develop trade and will probably establish joint enterprises and cooperate with private businessmen in
•Afghanistan", he said, adding that they will       propose    investment     for
 exploitation of Afghanistan's natural wealth and the development of its economy. He said the Afghan side could use their electric powers produced for commercial purposes and they would assist in road construction. "Peace prevails on our common border and shall remain so in the future. We have no intention of interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and I believe the Afghan side shares the same feeling towards us," he concluded. (RM)
                  5
 *   The OIC Secretary General, Dr. Hamid-al-Gabid, in an interview with the VOA has said the OIC wants to take active part in the solution of the Afghan problem and coordinate it?swork With that of the UN. He said, the Afghanistan issue would be included in the agenda of the forthcoming Islamic countries' summit conference in Dakar, Senegal. (MLM)
 *  In an interview in Peshawar 4
277
 OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AlfillllNl
 December Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, Chief of HI A, has. denounced the recent 1 Soviet-mujaheddin agreement saying the mujaheddin delegation which visited Moscow was not representing the whole Afghan nation. He said the delegation during its visit to Moscow had demanded • the nullification of all the agreements signed between Kabul and Moscow but the Soviets refused the demand by saying that the fate of such agreements would be decided by the future government of Afghanistan. He said this was an 'ample proof of the insincerity of the Soviets • towards the mujaheddin. He said his party was riot ready to participate in such a dialogue unless the Soyiet Union declares the Kabul regime illegal and halts all assistance to it. (MLM)
 * Addressing a seminar held in .Islamabad 4 December under the auspices of ARIA, the AIG President Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, demanded the formation of a loya jirgah comprising ulema, spiritual leaders, tribal chieftains and the learned Afghans who were residing in western countries, for running the future government of Afghanistan, reports ANA. He rejected the proposal earlier signed by him and representatives of the majority of jehad organizations of appointing a leadership' council for the future administration of Afghanistan saying that, though he had signed the agreement, he was not in favor of it in principle. He also rejected the HI A proposal for the establishment of such an interim government in Afghanistan that does not include the mujaheddin leaders or other controversial figures. He disclosed that;'he will attend the fprthcoming OIC conference being held in Spnega,l.
     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in his speech said that if major mujaheddin political parties, join hands they would not only establish a strong and stable government . in ; Afghanistan but also bring peace and tranquillity in that country..
10                 '  VOL.  5 NO. 1
 He said the tenure, of the. interim government should be limited and its first priority should be holding . of elections in the country within a stipulated period and handing over of power to the elected representatives through the popular votes of the people.
      Burhanuddin Rabbani proposed in his speech the formation of , a "leadership council" for taking Over the administration of the transitional government. .
      Representatives of Coalition Council , Ayatullah Taqaddusi, in his. address said that the ishia community should be represented in the future government of Afghanistan according to their population strength.
      Former Afghan Parliamentarian, Nang. Yousafzai, urged the holding of general elections in Afghanistan and said that only a representative Islamic government would, be able to solve the problems confronting the nation. (MLM)
 *  Iranian Charge d* Affairs in Afghanistan has said that his country was ready to serid assistance to every part of Afghanistan whether it is under ^the control of the Kabul , regime forces Or. the Afghan mujaheddin. (PT)
 *  The. Pakistan Times - in an editorial 5 December advised the Afghan mujaheddin leaders to pay heed to the timely advice to them by the President of Pakistan during their meeting with him in Islamabad to seize the opportunity for political solution of the Afghan issue. The editorial added, iri no Circumstances should they drag their feet. Fragmenting Afghanistan between different leaderships cannot bring peace to the country nor allow . the millions of refugees to return to their’ homes. When a final settlement^ appears around the corner it should not
278
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
 vol. 5 rio. 1
 be spurned, the editorial said. (PT)
 * The Muslim said in an 'editorial 5 December that recent developments relating to the Afghan issue are beginning to show some promise: things may after all start moving towards restoring peace and stability to that country. It, however, said what continued to , hamper efforts for a peaceful resolution of the conflict, even after the withdrawal of the ,bulk of Soviet personnel from Afghanistan, Were the divisions between the mujaheddin ranks on the one hand, and the continued Soviet reluctance to come to terms with the Changed realities in Afghanistan' on the other hand. The visit of a mujaheddin delegation to Moscow last month has, however, paved the way for the two sides to hammer out a workable solution Of the Afghan issue. (MLM)
 * In the background of the advice by the President and Prime Minister of Pakistan for forging complete unity and^cohesion in the ranks of the Afghan mujaheddin, the daily Jang in its editorial 5 December says prospects are indeed bright for an Afghan solution based on the formula of the UN Secretary GeneralT But at the same time certain forces are all the time engaged in hatching conspiracies aimed at rendering meaningless the struggle of the Afghans.     These   also , include
 Shia-Sunni divisions and, the Afghan mujaheddin should guard themselves against such 'sectarian divisions at every cost at- this decisive juncture and the entire Muslim ummah should also help them in this pursuit. Reports are also poyring of American assistance for Najibullah regime but these need not to be worried about* Because if geographically   linked Soviet ; Union,
 could not stand behind Najibullah, then any role by the US from a distance of thousands of mile's will be much more difficult to work. What is needed is that the mujaheddin should forge
 maximum unity in their ranks and then no conspiracy will stand in their way. (JG)
 * Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the AIG President, in an interview with the BBC regarding the Qiadi Shoora (Leadership Council) plan which was advised after a three-day meeting by five mujaheddin leaders in Islamabad said, in order to transfer power from the Kabul regime to an interim government, it is necessary to form a leadership council first in which all the mujaheddin leaders are represented. I have agreed to the formation of' this council and have ratified it for the simple reason that I do not want the brothers think.that<I do not want it for fear of my own leadership. Anyway, I do not bClieve the council will 1 be practicable^ Because we are in a state of war and we must do things speedily." He said, "the present AIG will have to continue until the formation of the leadership council and the transitional government", (BBCFS)
 *  Sebghatullah Mujaddedi regarding the visit of a mujaheddin delegation to Dakar, Senegal, said, "this is the firsttime that I have been invited to the QIC summit which is held every five years. Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, Mawlawi, Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi,Prof. Rabbani, Qazi- Mohammad Amin Weqad, Sheikh Mohammad Asef Mohseni and ,Mswlawi Mansoor, Hekmatyar's representative are members of the delegation". Mujaddedi said, "in the OIC ministerial'
,conference the seat of Afghanistan has been • allotted to the AIG with an official membership status and not as an observer". (VOAPS)
                  6          :
 *  The Peshawar-based Afghan mujaheddin leaders signed an agreement 5 December to replace the AIG with a leadership council of Afghanistan, reports YOG.
 279
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991   AFGHANlllHIHI                  VOL. 5 NO. 1
 The agreement was signed: among others by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. However, two mujaheddin leaders, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, did not sign the agreements. Analysts say that the President of Pakistan, Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif played an important role in the, signing of this agreement. (NTN)
 * In a briefing to peter Tomsen, US . special envoy for Afghanistan and James H. Hall, Associate US Coordinator for Refugees Affairs 5 December in Peshawar,. Cpqimf ssioner for Afghan Refugees expressed concern over the declining assistance for Afghan refugees. (PT)
 * A seminar entitled, "From Assistance for War to Assitance for Reonstruction" And Development", was, recently held by*, the Norwegian Afghanistan Committee in Islamabad. An official of the Norwegian Embassy said in his opening statement, although the 12-year war was nearing its end there were still 10 million land mines in the country. He said, 40% of’ arable land and 2,000 schools were, completely destroyed but expressed the hope that peace may return soon enabling the Afghan, refugees to return to their homes but prior to that let us join hands for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. He added that _ the Norwegian government had so far assisted us to $ .100 million towards this end and its. aid would continue in the future. (VOAbS)
            ' 7 "
 *. ■ In a resolution sponsored by Pakistan and the Soviet Union and adopted by consensus and without a debate 5 December, the UN General Assembly emphasized the, nedd for an "easrly start" of an intra-Afghan dialogue for the establishment * of a         broad-based
 government and called on the parties to’ "exert every effort". Such a government
 should be formed through "democratic procedures acceptable- to the Afghan people, including free and fair elections", the resolution said. Finalized in consultation with the Soviet Union, the US, China, . Saudi Arabia and Iran, the resolution has reaffirmed the right of the Afghan people tq determine their own form of Government and calls for the creation of necessary conditions to enable more than five million Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran to return to their homeland. The General Assembly has also emphasized that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence, non-aligned and Islamic character, of Afghanistan was essential for the peaceful resolution of the problem. (MLM)
 *   The Tadjekistan President Rakhmon Nabiyev has offered Pakistan the choice of using the Tadjek capital, Dushanbe/ as the venue for next round of peace talks between the Soviet Union and. Afghan mujaheddin, says a message received from Dushanbe (Tadjekistan) in Islamabad 6 December. In his talks with the visiting Pakistan delegation, led by* Sardar Asef Ali 4 December', President Nabiyev also gave his full support to the Afghan peace process. (NTN)
 *   Pakitani jouna’list Mushahed Hussain say the moderate mujaheddin organizations wanted to continue their negotiations with the Russians regarding the .solution of the Afghanistan issue,. He said, Pakistan' could organize an international conference in this respect with Saudi Arabia, Iran, the mujaheddin groups and Pakistan attending and 'exert pressure on the other mujaheddin organizations also to take part In peace talks. Mushahed Hussain added that the Foreign. Ministry\ of Pakistan had made it clear if the three mujaheddin parties still
 insisted upon their intransigence not
 to attend peace talks, the Pakistan
280
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 AMMAN JIHAII                   VOL.  5 NO. 1
 government would cut its assistance to them. (VOAPS)
 *    The ,. Soviet Defense Minister held talks with Mohammad Rafee, Vice President of the Kabul regime. (RM)
                     8
 *  The OIC Foreign Ministers' meeting in Dakar, Senegal, 7 December adopted two resolutions supporting the five-point UN plan for Afghanistan. Proposed and forwarded by Pakistan, the resolutions is now to be formally submitted before the sixth OIC Summit beginning in Dakar from 9 December. (PT)
 •* In a statement carried by Shahadat, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, has ruled out his participation in any shoora which is formed on the basis of equal representation of mujaheddin groups. He also declared his intention not to allow the participation of anti-Islamic groups in the future mujaheddin administration. (PT)
 *  Talking to The Nation 7 December, members of a delegation of the tribal peace mission which recently visited in Rome the former King Zaher Shah, said that Zaher Shah had stressed on an early ceasefire to the undeclared war in Afghanistan and on establishment of an interim government to hold general elections. The ex-King was in favor of the UN plan for Afghanistan and supported efforts of Benan Sevan who was trying to qonvince the rival Afghan fabtionS of an early implementation of this formula, they said. The former King, they said,' also welcomed the Soviet-mujaheddin talks held recently
; in Moscow and termed it a good step towards restoration of a peaceful atmosphere in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 * Commenting on adoption of a resolution on Afghanistan by the UN General Assembly, The Pakistan Times says in
 its editorial 8 December that the resolution would give impetus to the recent events and procedures adopted to resolve the Afghan problem and add to peace efforts. With the resolution emphasizing the preservation of. the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence, non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan, it should be acceptable to the people of' the country and make the hardliners involved in the struggle and desist from pursuing means other than • a political settlement. The situation in Afghanistan has reached a critical stage and the unique opportunity which now exists of resolving the problem should not be missed. (PT)
 *  Mir Hussain Sadeqi, member of HWIA Supervisory Council said, he had come to Peshawar for talks with the mujaheddin authorities and also with opposition groups abroad. He said he would also hold talks with Pakistani authorities. Sadeqi, who is a former founder of the Nasr organization, said regarding the aims of the HWIA, there were a variety of small groups in the central parts of Afghanistan which were following some aims and goals and which were also partly engaged in fighting each other. "So it was, necessary to negotiate with them in an effort to bring unity among them," he said.
 (VOADS)
 *  The office of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the Paktia Commander, -reports that a condolence meeting was held in Miran-shah 5 December to commomorate the mujaheddin martyrs in the latest Gardaiz battles. The meeting, attended by the mujaheddin and refugees, opposed negotiations between the mujaheddin leaders and Soviet authorities as well as the UN five-point peace plan for. Afghanistan. Apart from Haqqani,- other commanders in the area, some mujaheddin and, refugees as well as tribal chieftains and ulama also took part in the meeting. (VOAPS)
     OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 flfMJIHllfl                    VOL. 5 NO. 1
     * Dr. Abdul Quddoos, an employee of the Saudi Arabian Red Crescent relief center in Peshawar, said on behalf of other employees, "three Afghan employees of this organization were dismissed by the authorities last week. When other , employees gathered to enquire the reason, for their dismissal the authorities used the police force to disperse them. He said it was in symapthy with us that workers of the Naser Bagn Clinics, the Institute and Depot of TB Hospital at Kacha Garhi,
/ four clinics at the Jalouzi Camp and One at 2endi all went on strike". Dr. Quddoos added that the basic cause of . the unrest lies in the bad attitude of the Red Crescent authorities towards their Afghan workers and employees.:
     (VOAPS)
                         9
     * In an emotional speech to Parliament broadcast by national television, the Kabul regime President Najibullah has warned that any solution ‘imposed by external forces would not settle the conflict in Afghanistan. He has said the mujaheddin were now aligning themselves with external forces instead of talking to their Afghan brothers. He
     added that peace-loving countries
                        ■ • \
     should try to get Afghans together for talks instead of trying to .impose prescriptions of their own to settle the crisis there. "the history of Afghanistan has proved that a solution imposed by foreigners has no place in Afghanistan" he said. (NTN) *
    *  Addressing the Afghan refugee elders at Kacha Garhi refugee camp in Peshawar 8 December, member of the Azerbaijan Parliament and leader Of the 7-member parliamentary delegation, Mammedo Itibar Salidar Oglue, has expressed , solidarity with the cause of the Afghan
 V‘ people saying that the people of Azerbaijan had full sympathy with the Afghans in their struggle and wanted to
   help them in every possible way. He highly appreciated the relentless struggle of the Afghans against the Russians and said that they had displayed the unparalleled feats of bravery and courage to the Muslim world which would always be remembered in history. He said that the 21st century will be mentioned in the future history as the century of the Muslim world. Oglu announced a donation for the Afghan refugees in NWFP which included machinery for digging tubewells and two trucks for carrying-water on behalf of the new Islamic government of Azerbaijan and its people as a token of love and gesture of goodwill. (PT)
                   ' . 1 .
   *  Engineer Abdul Rahim, chief of the Coordination Office of the NGOs has said, the’ department' was newly established for cooperation in the development and , reconstruction of Afghanistan and encouraging other organizations also to participate. He said, consolidating relations with international organizations and foreign countries were also part of the objectives of his office. The office would collect data for reconstruction and protect legal rights of the relief organizations working in Afghanistan or the refugee camps in Pakistan. The department is financed by UN agencies, western countries and USAID. (BBCPS)
   *  Shamsuddin Majrooh, a former senior Afghan official, said in a press conference regarding the formation of the Leadership Council that its influence would lie in its being a national leadership. He said, at present only mujaheddin leaders are members of the council, whatever council they have formed uptil now have not been a representative of the nation because they have not been formed through elections, neither were they approved by a national council. (VOADS)
   *    Najibullah, the Kabul regime leader, 282
 i
OCTOBER-DECEMBER , 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 said in a press conference, the basic solution for the Afghan issue was a political settlement which could be reached by intra-Afghan dialogue. "We are sincerely going forward towards this end. We are sure with an end of foreign intervention, the Afghans will sit arouond a table and settle the problem once and for all. He said Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are morally committed to follow the steps of the US and Soviet Union in respect to the arms ban, (RA)
                   10
 *  The Islamic summit in Dakar,Senegal, in a resolution expressed concern over serious ^impediments still standing in the way of the Muslim people of Afghanistan to exercise freely their right to determine their political futurei The summit called for necessary conditions of peace and normalcy that would enable the Afghan refugees to return voluntarily to their/homeland in safety and honor. The/ resolution supported the efforts of' the Afghan mujaheddin to establish a broad-based . government. The OIC decided to continue generous, humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees. It approved recommendation's of the Secretary General of the ~'IC for reconstruction in Afghanistan. (PT)
 *  The mujaheddin attacked Kandahar Airport setting ablaze a plane and killing a number of Kabul regime troops, Radio Tehran reported. They have also killed or arrested 14 Kabul regime personnel in their three day attacks on regime's military installations in Kabul and Badghis provinces* They have captured a strategically important post and different kinds of weapons in these attacks. (PT) *
 *  The Kabul regime militiamen have fought each other in Herat city and exchanged heavy tank fire in the city
 and around its airport over the past week, eye-witnesses said 8 December. (NTN)                         1
 *   The hardliners in Kabul are resisting large-scale changes in the Kabul regime's army and are opposing political dialogue with the mujaheddin, ANS reports quoting reliable sources. A member of planning commission of Afghan army during Daoud governbment disclosed that the reforms being introduced by Najibuliah would mostly affect the Khalqis and therefore the Khalqis were putting stiff resistence to these changes. He has said that the current heavy fighting! between the Khailqis led "Sarondoy" and Patcham led KHAD units in Herat province might be the part of the same tussle. (NTN)
 * The Kabul regime air force killed hundreds of its Own troops 9 December when it tried to hit .mujaheddin positions On Gardaiz front preceded by a bloody attack on mujaheddin posit-ions by regime forces at midnight the previous day using heavy artillery, tanks and anti aircraft guns. In their two-day operation, the regime troops made 11 attempts against the mujaheddin positions but were forced to retreat leaving behind dozens of its troops killed including a General, (JG)
 *   Mohammadov Uglu,k President of the Parliament of Azerbaijan Republic said, history is witness .to the fact that no colonial power has ever been able to rule over Afghanistan. He said, the mujaheddin fought valorously against communism and the people of Azerbaijan had always wanted to assist them. He hoped the people of Afghanistan woul*d soon topple the Kabul regime. (VOAPS)
                 11
 * Addressing the sixth Islamic sumjiiit in Dakar, Senegal, 10 December, Pakis-
283
OCTOBER*DECEMBER, 1991
 VOL. 5 NO. 1
 tan Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said that Pakistan supported the UN Secretary General's efforts for,
 complete transfer “Of power to an • /
 "interim government" in Kabul. He said
 Pakistan is also engaged in "meaningful dialogue" with all concerned to promote a settlement that restores the Islamic character and independence of Afghanistan. He said a great challenge lies ahead for the Afghan mujaheddin leaders to demonstrate unity and statesmanship and seize the opportunity for a just political settlement. (PT)
 *  MIDIA reports Kabul planes are continuously straffing five districts>inr eluding Dawlatabad, for the . last two days.inflicting heavy material loss to the area. (VOAPS)
 *  Prof. Rabbani, leader of JIA and acting Foreign Minister of the AIG, said regarding the participation of th,e mujaheddin delegation in the OIC meeting in Dakar, Senegal, .that the Islamic, nations would discuss the Afghan problem again as in the previous sessions. He said, the OIC Secretary General contacted him on the matter and the OIC would - step up its efforts in this regard., Rabbani added, Ibrahim Bakr, second deputy of the OIC has. been appointed as the Liaison Officer to the mujaheddin for establishing close contacts. (VOADS)
                    12
   The sixth Islamic summit in Dakar,; Senegal, in a Pakistan-sponsored and unanimously adopted resolution1 on Afghanistan has expressed concern over, the , serious impediments to allow the people .of Afghanistan determine their own political future and declared the OIC support for the Afghan mujaheddin to; form a broad-based government in Afghanistan. Calling for finding-a just political settlement, the resolution also called for restoration of the
 political independence, sovereignty, Islamic identity and non-aligned character of the country. (NTN)
 *  On' his return from a tour of Libya, Turkey and.. Saudi Arabia, the JUI Secretary General, Mawlana Fazlur Rehman, said in an interview in Karachi 11 December that the World Islamic People's leadership conference in Tripoli last week adopted a unanimous resolution supporting the right of self-determination of Kashmiri people, and jehad of the/Afghan people. (PT)
 *    Prof, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the AIG, who had attended the OIC Summit ' meeting at Dakar, Senegal, said upon arrival in Peshawar, "on behalf . of the Afghan resistance I made this point clear that self-determination was the legitimate right of the people of Afghanistan. They should . be given this ■ right by overthrowing the Russian puppet regime andj another government favored by the people should be established." (VOADS)
 *   Mawlawi Mohammad Yuonus Khales, leader of the HI A, said regarding his organization's opposition to the establishment of the Leadership Council, first of all his organization was not represented when the council was being established. Furthermore, by establishing the council they have indicated that the mujaheddin are not in. a position, to advance; One should have thought that there would be some changes in the present government or that another government would be formed.. Forming and approving a Leadership Council is in fact a rereat from our positions. (VOADS)
 *  Diplomats' and resident in Herat say that fire is exchanged between rival militia units around the city.- A place worth seeing is the Kandahar Gate area which has been levelled to' the ground by Soviet air raids. Residential houses and shops have been destroyed, in this
284
OCTOBER“DECEMBER,
 beautiful historical
1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
city, social and belonging to the AIG Ministry of Auqaf
 family life is disappearing. (BBCPS)
 *  Rahimullah Yousufzai, of The NEWS has reported from Peshwar that differences among the mujaheddin regarding the establishment of the Leadership Council was growing. Seeking reasons for their conflict regarding the Council he says, in the Rawalpindi Council 400 representatives decided oh. the formation of the AIG and yet it was a failure, what will be the result if decisions are taken by a council of only 100? (BBCPS)
                    13
 *  The Kabul regime has been recruiting in large numbers ex-servicemen of the Red Army for military training of its personnel or possibly, combat against the mujaheddin, reports ^ANS. This follows intimation to Kabul regime by Soviet officials about their impending decision to.recall most of their combat advisors before December 31. (NTN)
 *  Hafizullah Seerat Taluqani, leader of the Shoora-e-Wahdat-e-Islami, said regarding the establishment of the Leadership Council, "Our council will not trust it because such councils should obtain the vote of confidence of the entire nation which has not been done in this case. The shoora will only increase our problems, not solve them." (BBCPS)
 *  The executive committee of the NLFA held a meeting in Peshawar while the AIG President was attending the OIC Summet at Senegal. It was decided in the meeting that the AIG, established two years ago by a council of 400 members and recognized by four Islamic nations^ S<£buld continue until another representative body took its place. The
 .NLFA committee also * considered it
 have said in a signed resolution that Islam accepts the rule of only one leader in a country and not a changing leadership.
      One .hundred ulaima and some commanders held a meeting under Mayrlana Abdullah Zakeri at Quetta 12 December and rejected the Leadership Council as non-Islamic> They proposed that a cuncil of 1,000 strong ulama be formed to decide either on the new leadership for the AIG or bringing about improvement in the work of the present government. (BBCPS)
                  14
 * Quoting reliable sources the mili-
 tary department of JIA has reported that the Russians.are sending about 100 military . vehicl.es     loaded with
 sophisticated weapons arid ammunition to Kabul through the Hairtan port every day. The report added that the increase ig Soviet military supplies to the regime started from 20 November and was continuing until the last report came in. (MLM)
 * In an interview to VOA, the AIG
 President, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, .has
                                1
 said that the OIC members have supported the proposal of right; of self-determination for the solution of Afghan issue. Most of the Muslim leaders have also promised to provide financial assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, he aid. (NTN)
 *  Najibullahj the Kabul regime leader says let the people themselves take a decision about him. He said, "I sincerely request all those who demand my resignation to contest me in general elections. The nation which boasts , of democracy cannot make an exception by rejecting my candidacy for elections."
 non+Islamic that the leadership of the Leadership Council shared among the mujaheddin leaders in turn. The ulama
(BBCFS)
* Hamidullah Azizi, representative of
OCTOBER-DECEMBER* 1991 AfflllANJIHflil                VOL.  5 NO. 1
 the Afghan, community . in , Switzerland says, the Leadership Council in Pakistan had also been established once before but, it did not yield positive results because it was not based on. democracy. He said, "in my opinion the present leadership council is a step taken in the- opposite direction, since it lacks a broad base. If it had included all jehadic elements and sympathizers of the jehad, intellectuals, politicians and pro-Zaher Shah elements it could manage to take positive steps. In its present composition it will not be capable of achieving anything but will only be an obstacle in implementing the UN five-point plan." (VOADS)
                   15
 *  Relatives of Kabul regime troops injured in Gardaiz took out a 'procession and staged .demonstration in front of military hospital in Kabul, ANS reports, quoting eye-witnesses. The demonstrators chanted slogans against Najibullah and his Watan Party and demanded their elimination. Meanwhile, MIDIA has reported that two planes were set ablaze at Herat Airport in missile attack by the mujaheddin killing two persons and injuring another two. In retaliation the regime planes severely bombed the mujaheddin positions. In Wardak, 21 regime militiamen were arrested by the mujaheddin whereas 16 regime troops were killed and injured in Qandahar and Farha provinces. (NWT)
 *  Hafizullah Seerat Taluqani, leader of the Wahdat-e-Islami Council, said, Islam Karimov President of Ozbekistan Republic claims that 200,000 Uzbeks were residing in Afghanistan which are basically part of Uzbekistan. While rejecting this claim, Taluqani said, "Yes, we do have Uzbeks’' in Afghanistan but they are Khurarasani Uzbeks. The capital of our country thousands of years were either, Balkh, Kabul or Herat. It ' would be more realistic to
 claim that Uzbekistan was part of our country." He termed Karimov's statement as intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. (VOADS)    t
 * There will be hardly any person in Kabul not affected by the war. This is the sad result of fratricide which has lasted for 13 years now. The people of Afghanistan are sick of war and there is hardly a single person in Kabul who may not favor peace. This is true for an ordinary shop-keeper as well for high-ranking Kabul regime authorities.
 (RM)
                  16
 *   The Afghan mujaheddin launched successful operations in different areas of Kabul city 11. December and destroyed a regime ammunition depot near Pul-e-Charkhi which continued to explode for two hours. (NWT)
 * Tehran Radio said the former Soviet Union has stopped all sorts of assistance to Kabul “regime and in retaliation, the Kabul regime has also stopped supplying gas to Moscow. (NWT)
 * Work for the formation of 100-member Shoora for the proposed interim government in Afghanistan is in full swing in Peshawar and Islamabad.. According to reliable sources, the meeting pertaining to the formation of the proposed Shoora also decided that leaders of 12 mujaheddin parties would not participate in interim government and would also desist from election for the Shoora. It was known that six seats to each party of the Peshawar-based Afghan groups would be allotted in the proposed 100-member Shoora while HEIA of Mawlawi Mansior and Dawa-e-Wahdat-e-Islami of Qazi Mohammad Amin and JD of late Jamil'hr Rehman would get two seats each in the Shoora and both the ICCA and HWIA of Shia Afghans would nominate six members each. The Afghan
28-6
 commanders, ulema refugees and best Muslims from Afghanistan wogld nominate six members each to the proposed Shoora. Three members ' could be nominated by the Western based Afghans. Thirteen seats have been left for the mujaheddin leaders to nominate people of their own choice. Two • organizations' belonging to ,Khales and Sayyaf- have boycotted these talks;
 *   In a press release .issued in Peshawar 15 December the Peshawar-based Afghan Consul, Abdul Qay.oom, has said the Afghan problem could only be resolved through intra-Afghan' dialogue and there is no objective of conference held outside Afghanistan. (NTN)
 * According to MIDIA 13 KHAD officers and Kabul soldiers have denounced their allegiance to the Kabul regime and joined the mujaheddin forces north of Gardaiz. The defectees carried with them a large number of weapons. According to another report, 150 armed militiamen including commander Habibul-lah have defected to mujaheddin. (NTN) .
 *   Mohammad Ibrahim Taherian, the Iranian Charge d' Affaires in Kabul has said, he expects an airlift of 1,000 tons of relief supplies to Bamian. Relief organizations say - that because of acute famine in the central high-lands thousands of the local population have been forced to migrate to Iran. (BBCPS)
 *   Abedah . Hussain, the Pakistani ' Ambassador to the US, has said as a neighboring country, Pakistan wishes that the war ended as soon as possible 7
■ in Afghanistan so that to enable the three million refugees residing in Pakistan to return to their homes.
 (BBCPS)
 * Speaking ip a Jang panel in Peshawar 16 December, -the Afghan Consul, Abdul Qayoom, claimed that *90% Afghan
                           •              287
 commanders, have links with Najibullah regime in Kabul and mujaheddin's defeat in Jalalabad and Gardaiz is a proof of these links. He also claimed that /Afghan commanders and .Afghans in general 'are no more interested in war and do not consider it in their inr terest. The ceasefire in Panjsher valley by Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and reconstruction work in the valley is an example of this, he claimed.: (<JG)
 *  The, second deputy to Boris Yeltsin, the President of the Russian Federation, met Gulbuddin Hekmatyar in the border area 13 December and exchanged views with him on the Afghan problem. At the end of the meeting the Russian envoy insisting upon the release of the Russian POWs said, it would be a goodwill gesture if they were released. In response to this Engineer Hekmatyar said, that the release of the Russian POWs constituted a small section of the Afghan problem and its solution could be sought along the main issues of the problem. Hekmatyar. added, during their occupation of Afghanistan, the Russians had arrested between 25 to 40 thousand people, if they are trying to, .get their own POWs released, they must also think about our prisoners. The Russion envoy said, "we are prepared to open the gates of all the prisons in the Soviet Union to the mujaheddin." He requested Hekmatyar for a list of the mujaheddin prisoners and promised to spare no efforts for.their release. (VOAPS) ^
 *  Abdul Sattar Seerat, a former Justice Minister said, the role of OiC regarding the Afghan problem was not satisfactory? the political realities of the Islamic world, the political atmosphere in the region and in the world and the Organizational set-up of the OIC have been such that the "organization could no;t play active and decisive role in the Afghan conflict.
                                                                      He added, if basic alterations in
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991       flllillMJIM11)           VOL.  5 NO. 1
 the OIC administration and its approach to the Afghan issue are not brought about, it willy not be able to do any better. (VOADS)
                    18
 *  A Two-day tripartite talks to find out a peaceful solution to Afghan issue will be held in Islamabad from 21 December between Russian Federation, Pakistani authorities and Afghan mujaheddin leaders when Russian Vice President, Alexander Rutskoy reaches Pakistan 19 * December on a four-day visit. Rutskoy would proceed to Kabul 22 December where he will hold talks with Kabul regime tb help set up an interim Islamic government there. (MLM)
 . f ’   '    '. '              •
 *  An American correspondent, hah said after his return from Gardaiz to Peshawar, some 3,000 mujaheddin under Haqqani, a similar number under Eng. Faiz Mohammad of HIA (Hekmatyar) and another force' under the command of Mawlawi Mansoor had gathered in the south of Gardaiz for a joint assault On the city. He said, the mujaheddin had been equipped with 85 and 130 mm guns
.which placed them in a better military position and, with their high morale, the situation seemed to be in favor of the mujaheddin. (VOADS)
 * Mohammad Fazel, a former1 Professor
 of Kabul University, has said that the leadership    council proposed by   the
 mujaheddin   leaders recently could  be
 regarded by some as a dictatorial body. He said in a meeting of an Afghan task force, in Islamabad recently it     was
 proposed that a supreme council should be established to replace the leadership       council and another body
 repreesenting the provinces should be established with 350 members to serve as an interim council and select members of an interim government-. He said, proppsing. the formation of a council* of, only 1Q0 people for a
 council- as advocated by the mujaheddin leaders in their recent agreement-would not lead to any solution of the issue. (VOADS)
 * Dr. Rayan Farhadi, a former Afghan
 diplomat has said regarding the OIC meeting in Dakar, during 1985 and 1986 the Afghan cause was totally set aside and in some international gatherings the Afghan delegation could hardly speak up. He said, today the mujaheddin are considered as representatives. of Afghanistan and as such, the mujaheddin and the AIG should brief the Muslim countries on the Afghan issues continuously. He called for basic changes in the OICo structure to enable it to really serve the Muslim community. (VOADS)    ' ■
                  19
 *  Alexander Rutskoy, Deputy President of the Russian Federation, is arriving at Lahore from Tehran 19 December on a three-day state visit to Pakistan. He will leave Islamabad for Kabul 22 December. Briefing newsmen, a Foreign Office spokesman said in Islamabad 18 December, the Afghan issue will be one of the important issues for discussion during the visit of the Russian leader. The spokesman, clarified that the visit of Rutskoy cannot be termed as the second round of mujaheddin-Soviet talks and said, "it is a bilateral visit and we will do out best to help Rutskoy in making his visit to Pakistan a success". He did not rule out the possibility of Rutskoy's meeting’with mujaheddin leaders and said, "we will surely encourage Rutskoy if. he holds meetings with the mujaheddin leaders". He said that agreement reached between the mujaheddin delegation and Soviet officials will also come under discussion during Rutskoy's talks with Pakistan leadership. (NTN)
268
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
    According to ANA, some of the mujaheddin leaders, including Prof. Mujaddedi and Engineer Hekmatyar held a meeting in • Islamabad to work out a common agenda for negotiations with the Russian delegation. The Speaker of the HIA (Khales) said, their representative did not take part /i.n the meeting because their leader had already rejected talks with the Russians.
      The report adds. Prof. Sayyaf had also earlier in a statement rejected talks with the. Russians regarding the Afghan issue. (VO AES’)
 *  Ahmad Shah Masood, the renowned mujaheddin commander, in an interview with a French journalist has said, the latest US-Soviet agreement would only extend the Afghan war. Sending arms supplies to, the mujahedin, he said, would have stepped up the military solution because the Soviet Union was no longer in a position to continue its military assistance to the Kabul regime for long. He said, "the arms ban has provided the Najib regime with more time." (BBCFS)
                   20
 * Afghan Consul in Peshawar, Abdul
 Qayyum, has in an interview in Peshawar claimed that Najib's policy of National Reconciliation had succeeded and many commanders had stopped fighting after establishing contacts with the Kabul, regime. He claimed 15 million afghans in Afghanistan solidly supported the Kabul regime while five millionis residing outside had no unanimity of views on any one subject and were fighting each other. He said, the war in Afghanistan has virtually ended and those still engaged, in ,certain pockets were mercenaries. (MLM)             , *
 *  Prof. Sayyaf told the Al-Bunyan correspondent inside Afghanistan that the Soviet side must accept mujaheddin
 conditions with sincerity. "They should, first of all, recognize the mujaheddin as the' true representatives of the Afghan people and then end their support of the Marxist Watan Party," he said. Prof. Sayyaf said, the Russians were in no way entitled to negotiate the future Afghan government with the mujaheddin as it is matter Entirely related tp the Afghan nation. (VOADS)
 *  The NIFA in a resolution adopted regarding the recent agreement signed among some mujaheddin organizations, including the NIFA, has submitted the following conditions:
 1. The Leadership Council should not be Monopolized . by the mujaheddin drganizations only. Other Afghans such as the mujaheddin, ulama, commanders and other sectors of the nation should aiso be included, 2. members to the council should be chosen by a majority vote, 3. the President of the AIG or the transitional government should not necessarily be a member of the Leadership Council, but that any eligible persons can be entrusted to occupy the post. (BBCPS)
                  21
 * Talking to newsmen in Islamabad 20
                S'                 ■ ’
 December, . the Vice President of the, Russian Federation, Alexander Rutskoyt said the Afghan mujaheddin most fulfill their commitment made at the Moscow talks and release Russian POWs. He said, during Moscow talks it had been decided both sides would fulfill their commitments. He. said conditions set by the mujaheddin had been accepted by the Russians and the mujaheddin should also respond positively and release Russian
 POWs. (PT)
         • . '
 *  Thirty Afghan mujaheddin prisoners in Kabul prison will be freed in exchange for one Russian POW. A source close to the Tehran-based HWIA told Iran's IRNA that the visiting Vice
   I
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 IMI'lllANJitjilQ                   VOL.  5 NO. 1
President of the Russian Federation Alexander Rutskoy disclosed this to the
      mujaheddin leaders. (MTN)
      *  The   Majlis-e-Shoora       of JI. of
      Pakistan in a resolution, adopted in Lahore 20 December, appealed to world Muslims, especially Muslim governments# to continue their assistance for the Afghan mujaheddin to achieve their goal for establishing an Islamic government. It asked the Muslim governments not to show weakness under foreign pressure at
 5    this stage. The Shoora cautioned
      against attempts to impose imperialist agents ' in Kabul or divide the country on ethnic and, tribal bases, otherwise'
    . the country would turn into another Lebanon. (MLM)
      *  Mir Abdul Qader Sooma, the HWIA representative in Germany said, in a two-day conference that will be held in Germany under the auspices of his party, many Afghan dignitaries residing in different countries have been invited* The aim of the conference is to seek ways for the Afghan settlement
 r in the light of the recent development in the region. Liberating the Islamic revolution of the country from personal interests and hegemony will also be studied." He said, "between 180-200 Afghans residing in Europe, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan have been invited to the Conference. (VOADS)
                         22
                                )
      *  Vice President of Russian Federation, Alexander Rutskoy held detailed individual' discussions in Islamabad 21 December with the leaders of the Afghan . mujaheddin over the Afghanistan problem and the release of Soviet POWs.
      S.ebghatuilah Mu jaddedi told ANA, his meeting with Rotskoy was very cordial and constructive. During the talks he
 *    announced the release of one Russian
 ^    POW as a gesture of goodwill. Prof.
 :   Rabbani  also termed his meeting .with
 that mujaheddin would abide by the joint agreement reached between them and Moscow and, according to their pledge, release the first batch of the Soviet POWs before the first of January next year-. Eng. Hekmatyar stressed on Rutskoy that the POWs exchange should be part of the settlement package of the Afghanistan problem and the problem should be solved on the principle of parity. He told Rutskoy that about 35-40 thousand Afghans arrested' by the Soviet army are still missing and those apprehended by the Red Army also included his (Hekraatya,) father and/ two brothers. He asked Rutskoy that Moscow should announce the list of Afghan POWs. He said the Soviet side was not abiding by the joint agreement. Hte disclosed that 17 December Moscow despatched ,150 armored personnel carriers with anti-tank remote control system through the Hairatan Port which have reached Kabul. (PT)
 . t During formal round of talks between Secretary General for Foreign Affairs, Akram Zaki, and the visiting ..Vice President of the Russian Federation, Alexander Rutskoy, in Islamabad 21 Dec.ember, the two agreed to cooperate for an early settlement of the Afghan issue acceptable to the Afghhn people, it was officially learnt. (NTN)
 * In their several-hour discussion in an Afghan area the Afghan mujaheddin leaders,. Abd Rab Rascol Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammad Youngs Khales, have agreed on a six-point formula and. the establishment; of a unified military command to invigorate , the armed struggle. The formula envisaged the setting up of a 500-member strong Shoora including 250 field commanders for deciding about the future of Afghanistan. They have also committed; themselves to oppose any government formed* Under foreign pressure and-continue their struggle till .the
290
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AMMANJOiAO                     VOL- 5 NO. 1
  establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. (NWT)
  *  Inaugurating the construction of new
  block of American Consulate in Peshawar 21v December, ' the US Ambassador to Pakistan, Nicholas Platt, said that the US would play a vigorous role and provide assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. (JG)         /
  *  The Russian delegation, led by Vice President, Alexander Rotskoy, held formal negotiations in Islamabad 22 December with the Afghan mujaheddin delegation on the Afghan issue. The mujaheddin delegation included Sebghat-ullah Mujaddedi, . Engineer Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Pir Sayyed Ahmed Gailani, Mawlawi Mohammad’ tiabi, Mohammadi, Qazi Mohammad Amin: Weqad, Mohammad Shah Fazli, Ayatullah Siddiqi, Ayatullah Mohseni, Mawlawi Samiullah, Mawlawi Nasrullah Mansoor and Engineer Mohammad Amin Munsef. (PT)
  *  Official UN sources report, they are sure the problem of food supplies to the central areas of. Afghanistan has
• now been solved. An official of the . FAO says, the UN is now of the opinion that necessary agreement regarding the supply of relief aids to these areas has been reached With the majority of Pashtun commanders and the use of the roads linking Mazar-e-Sharif with Bamian and Yakowlang have -been very effective. (BBCPS)
  *• A senior Tadjikistan delegation, led by a Deputy Prime Minister, arrived in Mazar-e^Sharif for a friendly visit 13 December. Bakhtar news agency reports that the delegation, which includes the Mayor and assistant Mayor of Doshanba, visited the mausoleum of the fourth Kalif, Hazrat Ali, and presented the establishment with two carpets. (RA) *
  *  Documents related to technical and economic cooperation between the Ministry of Mines and Industries and
 the national construction company of the Peoples Republic of China have been signed. The soohtract was signed by Eng. ■Jumagul, President of the Planning Department and the representative of the Chinese company. (RA)
                 23
 *  During his hour-long talks with correspondents before leaving for Kabul at the end of his three days stay in Pakistan 22 December, the Russian Federation Vice President, Alexander Rutskoy, said that with the demolition of Soviet Union whose leadership wa's responsible for aggression against Afghan people, the situation has undergone drastic change. Russian Federation would not interfere in one way or the.other in Afghanistan. It .was in this framework that Russian Federation stopped supply of arms to Kabul regime from December 15 as had been agreed upon between the mujaheddin and the Russian leaders during the mujaheddin's recent visit to Moscow. However, foodstuff, medicines and other consumer goods Were hot being denied. While the Russian Federation had fulfilled its promise, the mujaheddin had not as far released Russian POWs. He read out from the joint declaration issued at the conclusion of talks with mujaheddin leaders at Moscow last month to show that transitional government would be followed by general elections. Russia is not going to remove Najibullah. •fhe Afghan people should decide themselves and decide the issue with the help of intra-Afghan dialogue. (PT)
 *  The Kabul regime' on 21 December approved formal recognition of the Russian Federation and the Islamic republics of the ex-Soviet Union. (PT)
 *  ^Addressing a news conference in Islamabad 22.December Gulbuddin Hekmat-
291
      october-decembeRf 1991 flllillflNJiIIhiI              vol. 5 no. 1
     yar, leader of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanis-, tan, said:   .    . r           . • ' • i, .
         he . told Russian Vice President, Alexander Rutskoy, that the release of the Soviet POWs was a secondary issue. The Russians should first help the mujaheddin to remove non-representative regime and restore peace in Afghariis-- tan.
     -  the Russians should also talk about the fate of 40,000 Afghans who were missing, thousand those who were in Ka-bul jails.
     -  the Afghans have no objection to the agreement signed between the Soviet Union and mujaheddin 15 November but wanted Moscow, to take practical steps for the implementation^ Of that agreement with all sincerity.,
     -  all parties of the Afghans were
     united on all fundamental points. The impression of dusunity was being created to sabotage the efforts of peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue.       '
     -  The USSR had reached , its ultimate and logical conclusion. "Allah has taken revenge for oppression committed by the Soviet Union in the ..past." (NTN)
     * ■' The Afghan leader Sebghatiillah Mujaddedi handed over 22 December a Russian POW to Alexander Rutskoy, Russian Vice President, prior to the latter*s departure from Islamabad to Kabul. (MLM). *
     *   The Kabul regime has officially recognized the six Central Asian republics. Commenting on the move,; the BBC said that since. the former supporter of the Kabul regime i.e. the Soviet Union, no longer existed the. Kabul regime has taken the measure in an effort to be a step ahead of the
]| mujaheddin in extending friendship to them. (BBCPS)
 * A . conference for reviewing the Afghan problem whs held by" the HWIA in < Hamburg, Germany. A number of the participating      Afghans delivered
 speeches in the conference:
 -  Mohammad Fayyaz, President of the Tehran branch of HWIA, spoke on the economic, social and. pplitical situation in the central areas. .
     Abdul Hakim Tabibi, a former diplomat, discussed the former struggles of the Afghan people and their effects in the region.             ,
 -  Azizullah Shafaq, head of the HWIA military Commission in Tehran, demanded urgent, religious reconciliation.
 -  Dr, Abdul Karim Pakzad spoke of the . legal aspects of the future Afghan Government.
 -  Sayyed Qasim Reshtia# a recognized Afghan writer and historian, reviewed the UN five-point plan for Afghanistan *
    Dr. Kazim Fazeli spoke in favor of an elected government.
    Mohayuddin Najafi’, head of the -Afghanistan Department in the Iranian Foreign Ministry and Advisor to the Foreign Minister stressed on the participation of all Afghan sectors in the peace process.                ,
      At the concluding session * a 10 point resolution was approved. The resolution rejects the role of the Kabul regime in the future destiny of Afghanistan. Independence, territorial integrity, the Islamic and non-aligned character of the country and support of the right to self-determination of the, people as well as a stop to foreign intervention, the need for the continuation of the war and mujaheddin contacts with concerned parties are also included , in 1 the resolution.
 (VOADS)
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991       HfGllflNJIWIO            VOL. 5 NO. 1
                   24
  * Talking to The Muslim Akram Zaki, Secretary General of Foreign Affairs, said in Islamabad 23 December, the changes taking place ill the former USSR, and the birth of sovereign republics adjacent to Pakistan' and Afghanistan borders, have added a new dimension to the Afghan solution and. it would be more logical, that the Central Asian states should also be taken in confidence about efforts regarding the political solution of the Afghan issue. What the nation required today, he said, was an immediate solution of the Afghan problem which < was essential to enable the country to avafil the opportunities thrown in its way on account of the developments" in the Soviet Union. (MLM)
  * In a message to the Afghan nation Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of Hezb-e-Islam! . Afghanistan, has said that it should bow in gratitude to God Almighty that the Soviet Union has reached to
 t its logical end through its elimination as a super power. God willing, he said, the other imperialist power, the US, will also meet the same fate. (JG)
  * Addressing a press Conference in Kabul 23 December, the Vice President of Russian Federation, Alexander Ruts-koy, accused the Afghan mujaheddin for releasing an Afghan POW instead of, a Russian POW and in doing so, they have openly cheated him. Commenting on this, Afghan leader Sebghatullah Mujaddedi said the Kabul regime is trying to conceal :the fact that the Soviet: central Asian forces are also fighting against the Afghan mujaheddin along with regime troops. (JG)
  * The Iran-based Afghan Shia groups have totally closed their offices in Tehran and set up their headquarters in Peshawar with the AIG. .Quoting the
 leader of the groups, Karim Khalili, the resistance sources have said the step has been taken in view of the imminent developments in Afghanistan. (JG)                             :
 * Mohammad Amin Munsef, Chief of the Political Office of Da•eya-e-Islami Afghanistan related to Qazi. Mohammad Amin Weqad, said regarding the newly proposed . Leadership Council, that
 ,leaders' of.12 mujaheddin organizations would take part in the body. Others will *.be included according to the list prepared by the commission from ranking officials of mujaheddin organizations, representatives of ulama, , commanders, tribal . leaders,. Muslim Afghan refugees in the Middle East, Europe and America, in a council ( of hal wa aqd (wise men). They will then . nominate the Prime Minister who will in turn introduce his cabinet to the council for a vote of confidence-. (BBCPS)     l
 *  Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of the mujaheddin delegation to Moscow, regarding his meeting with the deputy President of the Russian Federation said that he confirmed the agreement reached between the mujaheddin and the Russian authorities and said that the. contents would be adhered tb. Rabbani said, according to the Russian envoy, some officials of the former Soiet Union opposed the agreement and there were still others who had relations 'with the Kabul regime. Quoting the Russian envoy Prof. Rabbani said, the Russians were, in agreement with the establishment of an Islamic mujaheddin government. The Russian also told him that he had issued instructions to the Russian Chief of Staff to stop all shipment Of arms and fuel to the illegal Kabul regime. (VOADS)
                 25
 *  Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, leader of IIA, has presented-.another formula
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 an interim government in Afghanistan: "a 500 members strong Shoora with 50% of prominent field commandejrs should be formed. They will be elected after a careful scrutiny. The Shoora should be invested with the authority to decide about the interim government, major issues, the fate of jehad and the country. If this is difficult now, let us call up the Consultative Shoora, (of 1987) to take certain decisions. It should function till the formation of a:, shoora of "ahl-e-hal wa-aqd". He described as contradictory, ambiguous, objectionable and controversial the first four articles of the Islamabad agreement and declared that "the confidence of the nation will only be restored when we trust each other and agree on a leader frbm among ourselves for an interim period. We can find a way out in the third article, that is:  Since agreement has already
 been reached, on a 100-member shoora, two more people who meet all the requirements of this Islamic shoora could be added on the basis of a fixed proportion; this shoora shall decide on the questions of the future leadership, interim Islamic government apd find solutions to the burning issues concerning our country in accordance with the aims of our Islamic jehad. In this 102-member shoora, each of the seven parties should have 12 members while 18 members can be nominated by the rest of mujaheddin groups provided two-third of all the members are taken from Islamic scholars and field commaners. (NTN) *
* The Afghan Cpnsul, Abdul Qayyum, met the ANP leader, Khan Abdul Wali khan,in Peshawar 24 December and informed him about developments taking place for. a political settlement of Afghan problem. The meeting took place at the residence of Provincial Communication Minister, Bashir Ahmed Bilore# when the meeting of the ANP parliamentary groups was in progress and both Khan Abdul Wall Khan
 and Afghan Consul reached there at the same time.,(NTN)
 *  The Afghan mujaheddin killed a regime pilot and three officers 19 December during their operation in Neyazi, Paktia.; They also repulsed a regime attack in Zindajan, Herat, 16 December killing 25 . militiamen and injuring several others. They also captured various sorts of weapons. (NTN)
 * The^ mujaheddin leaders have severely
 reacted to the Russian delegation's statement in Kabul that the Russian POWs handed over to them by Sebghatullah Mujaddedi in Peshawar was not a Russian soldier but an Afghan. Terming this claim totally baseless, the mujaheddin statement says:       The
 Russian soldier. Baba Gul, was captured in Paghman, near Kabul, in 1990 and was a native of Turkmenistan. The mujaheddin are capable to produce concrete evidence to prove their claim. The mujaheddin and their government' do not see any reason to turn over an Afghan national, in place of a Russian POW. Propaganda of this nature can only be spread by enemies of Islam and Afghanistan in order to damage their prestige. (VOAPS)/
 *  Alauddin Khan, general commander of the south-western region, reports on the general situation in Herat, two planes were shot down when the, enemy raided Zendajan, but 300 mujaheddin were killed or wounded. The mujaheddin have broken the siege destroying 15 tanks and capturing another 10. Sporadic fighting continues and the general situation is in favor of the mujaheddin. The enemy has resorted to air raids and long-range shelling. At the beginning of the attack the eneifty deployed 10,000 troops and about, a thousand tanks but after they were repulsed, their forces have decreased and are only on the defensive. (VOADS)
OCTOBER-DECEMBER» 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 *   Akram Zaki, Secretary General Foreign Affairs of Pakistan, said Alexander Rutskoy, the . Deputy President of the Russian Federation, held comprehensive talks in Islamabad with mujaheddin leaders and are now nominating their representatives to a joint commission which will conduct comprehensive negotiations on i the solution of the Afghan problem. He said, they were all of the opinion to seek a political solution to the Afghan issue adding that it was an Afghan problem and the Afghans themselves were entitled to decide about it. (VOADS)
 * Afghan businessmen in Peshawar say that the rate of the afghani has fallen drastically since a week inflicting heavy losses upon them. They say, those Afghans who have been peddling between the two countries have also suffered.
  The afghani/rupee exchange rate 25 December was' 100/1.6, a record low during the last 13 years. They say, the Afghans are hoarding their hard currency because of the recent situation in the Russia. (VOAPS)
 * The Association of Afghan Lawyers in Peshawar have recently sent a letter to the UN Secretary General requesting him to take measures for maintaining the value of the afghani. The association has also blamed the Kabul regime for
.circulating large amounts of bank-notes leading to the present situation. (VOAPS) *
 * A Columbia University Professor in a letter published in the Afghan News Journal, Says that eversince the communist take-over in Afghanistan 15.4% extra bank-notes have been issued annually. "Afghanistan being a member of tjie International Monetary Fund," he said, "is committed to submit to the IMF a report about circulation of money at the end of each year."
      Quoting the Kabul regime March, 1990 report to the IMF, the Professor said that at the time of the communist take-over there were 11.8 billion afghanis in circulation, but in 1986 when Najib declared his national reconciliation in Afghanistan, the sum of money in circulation had risen to 71.4 billion afghanis, indicating and annual increase of 15.4%. The letter says that during the first year of this plan the amount of money in circulation rose to Afs. 112.5 billion, showing an annual increase of 51,. 6%, but at the end of 1989- the increase was threefold .
      The letter adds- that the future Afghan government will not only have to reconstruct the country but also to reestablish a new monetary system in the country. (VOAPS)
 *   Three POWs held by the Afghan mujaheddin groups were released 26 December in accordance with agreement signed between the mujaheddin and the leadership of former Soviet Union 15 November. Announcing this at a press conference 26 December in Islamabad the AIG Foreign Minister, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said the release of POWs was a collective decision of the mujaheddin to show flexibility and remove obstacles in the process of peaceful solution to the Afghan problem. Criticizing the agreement reportedly-signed by the Russian Vice President during his recent visit to Kabul, he said it was an attempt to continue the military support to the puppet regime. He said the Russian Government supplied additional mi litary aid to the Na j ib regime two days ago, contrary to the letter, and spirit of the November 15 agreement. (PT)
 *  Two top commanders of IIA in
 295
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991
VOL- 5 NO. 1
 Nangarhar province, Hafeez-ul-Haq and Azizullah Azimi alongwith a bodyguard, Shamsur Rahman and, driver Ghulam Sarwar were killed and two wounded in an armed attack near, Babe Khyber on Jamrud. road 25 December. Afghan sources said that it might       have been a plot to kill
 the IIA Chief Sayyaf who      was on his way
 back'to Peshawar from his military base and his vehicle passed from the same place about 10- minutes aigo.            The
 attackers are believpd to be Afghans. Another top         commander  of ' IIA   in
 Nangarhar, SaznOor, has also been seriously wounded. (MLM)
 *   A VGA Pashtu correspondent in relation to the effects of the Afghap
“armed resistance on the fall of communism and quoting a letter <sent from Lenin, the founder of the Soviet Union, to Amir Amanullah in January, 1920 says, "the Afghans have led the subjugated nations ^tq . liberty ' and independence". He says, this statement’ was made by Lenin to King Amanullah of Afghanistan in reference to the then nations under foreign yoke, but little did he dream then that the Same would be the fate of the nations under the rule of the Red Empire also. The correspondent quoting Ted \ Eliot, a former US Ambassador to Afghanistan, says: As the fall of the western colonial empire began in Afghanistan in the 19th century, in the same manner the fall of the Russian empire began in Afghanistan in tl>e 20th Century.
      Rubenstein, Professor in PenSylva-nia University says, since the Soviet empire has shattered, world competition in the Soviet southern republics will end, (VOADS) *
 * Dr. Sharukh Gerart the NIFA commander in Kabul says regarding the current Afghanistan situation, in Afghanistan question will soon be settled, but the mujaheddin leaders are not playing their role properly. He says, the mujaheddin leaders deal with each other
 squarely, the Afghan problem will soon be resolved. (VOAPS)
 * The "extremists" fired eight ground-to-ground \ missiles on , Kabul '    27
 December which hit residential areas in the fourth, fifth and 11th districts of the city causing heavy material damage. (,RA)
                 28
  . a
 .*■ Speaking in "Meet the Press Program" in Karachi Press Club (date not given) Akram Zaki, Secretary General ’ for Foreign Affairs, has said that Afghan mujaheddin leaders should decide about the modus-operandi for the establishment of an. interim Islamic government in Afghanistan.\ He. said, their conditions have, already been fulfilled and there is no justification for the mujaheddin leaders to lay emphasis on military option. (NWT)     1
 ♦Political commentators observe some resemblence between the events in Cambodia and Afghanistan. Following are the opinions of three schplars:
    Dr. Mohammad Anwarulhaq Ahadi, Professor of US Providence University: In Cambodia all concerned foreign forces were supporting a political solution, whereas in Afghanistan some foreigners do not favor a political solution. The Pakistani generals want the fall pf the Kabul regime through military means.
 — Dr. Rahmatullah Zeerakyar, former faculty member qf Kabul University: The Cambodian peace plan was proposed by an authoritative UN body i.e. the Security Council, whereas the peace plan for Afghanistan was submitted by the Secretary General which lacks the necessary executive force.
    Qarib-ur-Rahman:  Saeedi, President
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991 AFGHANJlllUfl                  VOL.  5 NO. 1
 of the ANA in Peshawar: The conflict in Cambodia began for the cause of independence; the Afghan jehad started between two ideologies i.e. Islam and atheism, with the aim of establishing an Islamic order in the country and until that goal is reached, the war will continue. (VOAPS)
 * The Guardian, published in Britain,
 writes: The  US and Russia are moving
 towards new relations on the Afghanistan question. The arms ban on the
       ■       ■                     t
 warring parties as from 1 January, 1992
 has actually started and it is expected to produce results. For the first time during the last 13 years, Pakistan sees its interests in peace in Afghanistan.
 * Najibullah, the Kabul regime leader,
 is planning to begin new relations with the central Asian republics. With the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime position   has weakened and  the
 hardline communists   are  fleeing  the
 country. Previous Pashtun and Tadjik conflicts are again developing in the ranks of the Watan Party. The present UN peace plan is in need of the support of neutral Afghans.
 *  The daily Independent (Britain)
 writes: With  the fall of the Soviet
 Union, Iran and Pakistan are struggling for an urgent solution of the Afghan problem because their own safety hangs upon it. (BBCPS)
 ♦According to Radio Kabul, at least four persons, including three children
 were killed and 10 injured when the mujaheddin fired rockets on Herat city. In another rocket attack on Kabul, on the occasion of the 12th anniversary of the Russian invasion, seven persons were wounded. (BBCPS)
                                                 29
 * The Afghan mujaheddin fired at least 30 rockets on Kabul 27 December on the
 12th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan leaving dozens injured and an unknown number dead. They also hit ttie city's diplomatic enclave 28 December smashing cars and blowing out window panes, witnesses said. (PT)
 *  In a .meeting organized by Jamiat Tulaba of Jamiat-e-Islam of Afghanistan (JIA) in Chamkani on the 12th anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan 28 December, leader of JIA, Burhanuddin Rabbani, urged the mujaheddin to close their ranks to deal with the critical situation.
      in Shamshatu. refugee camp, near Peshawar, the HIA staged a big raily of refugees to condemn Soviet military invasion. Addressing the rally, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar advocated the establishment of an elected Islamic government in Afghanistan and rejected any coalition or negotiations with the puppet regime of Kabul. He thanked the friendly nations for extending assistance to the Afghan mujaheddin but made it clear that, none would be allowed to use such assistance for imposing a regime of their" choice on the Afghan people. A number of resolutions were also passed on the occasion expressing solidarity with the independence struggle of the people of Kashmir, Palestine and the Muslim republics of Central Asia. (PT)
 *    The Kabul regime President Najibullah has ordered the release of 100 prisoners and asked the Afghan mujaheddin to reciprocate the gesture. (JG)
 *  Eleven persons, including seven militiamen, were killed and dozens injured in an armed clash between two militia groups of Kabul regime 24 December in Kandahar city due to a
 1 dispute over the distribution of money and valuables looted by them from shopkeepers and passersby in city's
                                     —- t 297
 .V
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
HAN Jil
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 central square. Several shops and other buildings were also destroyed in the fighting. (JG)
 *Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of HIA, in a large gathering held, on the anniversary of the Soviet invasion in Peshawar said, some responsible Pakistani authoritiips requested him to reconsider joining the AIG. But the proposal was rejected. The officials had told him 'that Najibullah was prepared to resign in favor of the former King, a move also supported by the US, Saudi Arabia and Iran.' Hekmatyar said, "if, according to the officials, I supported the plan, which carries international guarantee, , the Afghan issue will be solved and elections will be held. But I am not prepared to support Zaher Shah for the simple reason that he is favored by the US and Russia, and * by this means they wish to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government in , Afghanistan."
 (VOADS)
 * Mohammad Hashemi, President of the Paiwand Association and member of Tadjikistan Academy of Sciences, sajid in an interview, the people of Tadjikistan were brothers with the Tadjiks and other nationalities in Afghanistan and he wished" peace came to this war-torn country soon and a government of the people was established there. He said, nobody'could deny the role of the Afghan jehad in the collapse of the communist empire. The Paiwand Association, he said, would only be pleased to help towards the solution of the Afghan problem/ (VOADS)
*  Antony Arnold, an American writer and author of two books on Afghanistan, said the main cause of the fall of the Soviet Union was its invasion of Afghanistan. The Russians were thinking they would succeed within some weeks or months, but they failed and this caused the people to withdraw their trust from
 the ruling establishments, the party, the armed forces and the K.G.B. He said, - military       operations     in
 Afghanistan until 1982 were the responsibility of,the party, and when it failed, the military took over the task and with their failure; th^ K.G.B took the responsibility. He said, when all other means were defeated', the Russian empire referred to its last hope, the K.G.B. The resistance of the Afghan people cautsed the Russian forces to remain stuck in Afghanistan and for this reason it could not invade Poland in 1981. He said that the Afghan jehad also inspired independence movements all over eastern Europei (VOADS)
 * The effect of the ' recent developments in the former Soviet Union on the region and Afghanistan according to scholars:
    Ashraf Ghani, Professor .of John Hopkins University:   The central Asian
 republics are reviving their Islamic cultures. Afghanistan, in the vicinity of these nations, should play its due role together with Iran, Pakistan and India.
 - Pairoz Kazimzada, professor of Yale University:  The latest developments in
 the, former Soviet Union will have a positive effect on Afghanistan, because the central Asian republics are preoccupied with their own internal and economic conflicts to the extent that will not enable them to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan as did the Soviet Union.
   Hamed Angar, Professor of Berkley University:  With the establishment of
 independent states in Central Asia, the road has been paved for acquaintance with Islamic nations. If the Islamic countries in.the region care to assist these republics, it will benefit both sides. Afghanistan will not be able to play a positive role in this respect
298

OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 unless they are united and the hated Najib regime is overthrown. (VOAPS)
                   30
 * The Moscow accord .between the Afghan mujaheddin and Soviet officials appears to have been endangered due to.' US pressure on Boris Yeltsin, President of Russian Federation, to go back from his promises, says Al—Bunyan news agency in a comment. . According to, reliable sources, the Afghan mujaheddin were mistaken to believe that the new Russian leadership had developed a soft corner for them and, in doing so, they had forgotten that Boris Yeltsin is a pro-American jew and his hands are stained with the blood of the Afghans. (NWT)
 * Talking to diplomatic correspondent of PPA in Islamabad, Jawad Mansoori, Iranian Ambassador to Pakistan, has said the solution of Afghanistan problem has become inevitable pow and therefore all the Afghan leaders should play their positive role in this regard by sinking their differences. The military solution of the Afghan problem is no more possible in view of world events and developments in Russia, he said. (NWT)
 * A rally attended by about 300 people
 with many of them simple passersby in . Kabul's Zarnigar Park 28 December in support of former King Zaher Shah, was disrupted by a rival group as regime security forces watched without intervention,      witnesses     said.
 Addressing the rally the organizer Zia Khan Nasri, a New York based Afghan businessman, said,1 "we must find a peaceful solution and King Zaher Shah is", the only one who can bring that solution". (PT) *
 *  The "Friends" organization, founded by Mirza Aslam Beg, the. former Pakistani Chief of General Staff# held a seminar in Peshawar 29 December in
 which ulama, experts and well-known journalists exchanged views on security in Afghanistan and the region. Prof. Rasool Amin, President of WUFA said, as an Islamic community, the Afghans have greatly served the        caiise of Islam
 throughout the history. Practical ways must be sought for the political solution of ^Afghan problem and implementation of the UN     peace plan and an
 Islamic government        be established
 according to the wish of\ the nation. Foreign countries,          including our
 neighbors, should           refrain from
 interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, because the Afghans have never accepted imposed political Systems in the past and will never do so in the future. He Said, activities which may :help split Afghanistan must be stopped. (VOAPS)
 * Three Afghan scholars have expressed opinion on the effects of the Afghan jehad on the downfall of the communist empire:                      .y
 - Sayyed Shamsuddin:  There is  no doubt
 that Afghan struggle for independence was effective in . the changes taking place in the former Soviet Union. Communism proved to be an unsuccessful ideology. There was yet another factor in the form of Sakharov and Gorbachev" opposition inside communist Russia that eventually led to the collapse of the communist empire and its unsuccessful philosophy.
 -  Dr. Kakar: The former Soviet government which was established as a result of a coup in 1917 has been ineffective and on the way out rights from the start. But no doubt, the Afghan jehad was a decisive to step up the process. The so-called invincible Red Army- the only pride of the Soviet empire- was rendered ineffective in Afghanistan. Shevardnadtzee, the former ‘ Soviet Foreign Minister, says the Afghan war forced us to seek understanding and
299
OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1991
VOL. 5 NO. 1
 )
   !
  \.
  t
 cooperation with the West.
    Dr. Ravan Farhadi:   As the Afghans
 struck the first blow on the colonial
 power of the 19th century, in the same
 manner they struck a decisive blow at
 the end of the 20th century on a power
 which had armed four million persons
 against humanity. (VOADS)
  * ,
 *  Najibullah, leader of the Kabul regime, conferred Ghazi Amanullah Khan medals for Brigadier General Mohammad Asef Delawar, Brigadier General Manukai Mangal and Major General Alauddin 30 December. ,(RA)
 *  Sixty political prisoners convicted \ for crimes against internal security were released from the Pul-e-Charkhi Prison 30 December on a special decree from the Kabul regime leader. (RA)
                                                  31
 * Reliable diplomatic sources in Islamabad have said if Afghan mujaheddin failed to cooperate in the implementation of Moscow accord, the countries closely concerned with the Afghanistan problem can actively consider , the Zaher Shah option. The Russian Federation has given an indication to these countries that it will have no objection on replacing Najibullah regime with an interim government led by Zaher Shah if the mujaheddin -delayed implementation of the accord, the sources said. Meanwhile, highly reliable sources have said that contacts between the concerned countries and the former Afghan King hav° started once again.
 (JG)
                 »
 *  A Cabinet source said in Islamabad 30 December Pakistan will soon initiate some major and important policy measures for' ah early solution of the Afghanistan problem as frequent changes taking place around us demand a speedy action. Meanwhile, foreign office
 officials said Pakistan has been offered a major breakthrough in its relations with the newly emerged Russian republics which looked mote eager to develop economically beneficial relations with Pakistan and were keen to resolve the Afghan ! problem which was considered a major hurdle in the opening of a new phase. If we miss this opportunity, said an official source, it would be regrettable for the nation. (MLM)
 *  The US-Soviet military involvement in Afghanistan will formally come to an end 1 January 1992. However, -the US officials, asking not to be. identified, said the last Of the US deliveries to the Afghan mujaheddin arrived in October after the September agreement. As for the Russian side, one official said, "there has been a significant drop in their assistance" in the weeks, proceeding the deadline. .Leaders-of the Afghan mujaheddin have been told that Russian fuel deliveries to the Kabul regime will be suspended even though the step is not required under the September agreement. (NTN)
 *   Afghan resistance leaders at a meeting in Peshawar 29 December approved a proposal to, set up a three-member commission for finding ways and means to resolve the Afghan crisis. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Chief of JIA, was appointed the head of the commission and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi and Asef
 Mohseni are its members. The Afghan sources said the members of the commission will have separate discussions with other resistance leaders to get their opinions and proposals on solving the different issues. (MLM)
 *  After a meeting of all commanders of Afghan xfiujaheddin at, Darpakhel (Miranshah) in Bannu (date not given) Maulana Mohammad Yaqub ShariatySr, the military spokesman of the General Commander of Paktia Front, told reporters
300
OCTOBER-DECEMBER. 1991 MIllMIlJlltllll                   VOL. 5 NO. 1
 the commanders have unanimously decided to continue jehad and no dialogue in Geneva was acceptable to them. (NTN)
 * A competent Afghan mujaheddin source has told Al-Bunyan news service the Kabul regime has signed separate economic, trade and cultural agreements with the former Soviet republics, of Uzbekistan, Kazakhastan, . Kirgizia Turkemanistan and 1 Tadjekistan. The source, quoting reports from Kabul said, Azerbaijan has refused to renew its economic and trade agreements with Kabul regime beyond 1991. The source also said, at least for the current witner, supplies of food and fuel have been assured to . the Kabul regime authorities by India and the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan,.Kazakis-tan and Tadjekistan, where even now former die-hard communists are in power, who are strongly allergic to the coming to power in Kabul of a mujaheddin led administration. (NTN)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Prof., Burhanuddin Rabbani have congratulated vDr. Abbas Madani,' leader of the Islamic Liberation Front on ILF success in the Algerian elections. They have said the success is not only that of thd ILF . but that of the entire Islamic community. (VOADS)
 * Western correspondents in Pakistan told the VOA that a conference would soon be held 1 in Saudi Arabia for the solution of the Afghan problem. The
 conference would be attended by mujaheddin leaders, representatives of Pakistan, Iran and Saudi' Arabia. (VOADS)
 *  Iran' says it has continued its humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan and if it obtains permission for flights to Pakistan it would be ready t© supply aid to Afghan refugees in Pakistan as well. (VOAPS)
 *  The BBC has screened a documentary film in its New Year programs depicting a scene from Taluqan, Takhar province, where people were actively busy in the reconstruction work after 13 year of war and destruction. The film also showed the rubble and debris left behind as a result of the'Kabul regime brutal air raids last August. Children wounded during the raids and under treatment in the local hospitals could also be seen. The film clearly indicates how Ahmad Shah Masood has managed to persuade the people towards peace. (VOAPS)
 *  The President of the Russian Friendship Association with the Kabul regime, has said regarding the Russian.~ cooperation with the Kabul regime and negotiations with the. mu jaheddin, that there was no specific program for the continuation of talks with tjie mu jaheddin. i Ruling out the impossibility of further talks, he said, all know that, the Afghan question could not be solved unilaterally and "we are ready to renew our contacts", he said. (RM)
\
A
  i
 301
- ■*
