    I
if $
W$Mt s
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
I> fi                     *  *•“            .

9,1

                                                                                             let
                   IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, HOST GRACIOUS, tfOST MERCIFUL
    END OF THE ARMED JEHAD AND THE START OF RECONSTRUCTION AND
      The most superior jehad, in Islam, is elimination of. egoism. Actually struggle to control one's animal instincts is superior to jehad against the enemy and is a pre-requisite for victory in the battlefield. Similarly if on return from the war front, the struggle against one's animal instincts does not continue, victory' against the enemy will bear no fruit. By eliminating one's "egoistic tendencies, one can overcome all sorts of difficulties. In the words of^ the Holy Quran:
      "As for those who strive in Us, We surely guide them to Our paths, and is with the good." (Surah Al-Ankabut: Verse-69)
      All . the difficulties in regard to differentiating between Right and Wrong, satanic apprehensions, worries regarding probable mistakes and all the hardships one faces in one's search for the sublime truth and one's obedience to Divine Will, would be wiped out and the door to the path leading to Divine Vision would open.
      So far, one of the two following causes have hindered our progress towards success and have given rise to failures:          '
      1,. Shortcoming in jehad;
      2.  Insincerity.
      If we could remove these two snags then in view of God's promise, which is undeniable, we will surely succeed. Why was it that yesterday we overcame a powerful enemy with empty hands? Why is it that today, when we can determine our own future, we are cutting each other's throats? Why was it that yesterday we were praised a^s the heroes of contemporary history, working miracles in the 20th century, but today we are blamed for useless internecine warfare? Why were we recognized yesterday as the openers of the highway of freedom, breakers of iron walls and smashers of the chains of *slavery? Why today we are trapped in the devilish temptations? Why yesterday, others followed us and the world looked up to us? Why today we rely on others to save us,from political storms?

JULY-SEPTEMBER» 1992               flfGIIIlNJM                     VOL.  5 NO. 4
      The answer to all these questions          is that either we have forgotten our
 jehad for the sake of Allah or our intentions are no longer pure and we are no more serious.
      It is a fact that. selfishness,            egoism,   worldly desires, political
 ambitions and scores of personal greeds have dimmed our vision and have polluted our hearts so much that we have lost our path of 'jehad for the sake of God.' We . have gone so far that we have killed more people than our enemies did.
      Conceit, pride, self-aggrandisement and ambitions of some of the people at the  helm of authority, disillusionment and isolation of      the  intellectuals,
 disinterest and callousness of the well-to-do           community have only deprived
 us of the fruits of jehad and our sincerity of purpose. If we regain our sincerity or if we remember for a moment the spirit of our jehad, there is no doubt that success will knock at our doors, our disappointment will change into hope, our ignominy will turn into pride and honor and our disunity will mel.t into unity and solidarity. God Almighty has explained the ailment and suggested the cure as well, in Surah Al-Ankabut: Verse No.69 of the Holy Quran. In another Surah, the following advice lias been given:
                            "Then have patience. The promise of Allah is true and ask forgiveness . of thy sin and hymn the praise of thy Lord at fall of night and in the
      early hours." (Surah Al-Mumin: Verse^55).
      First of all we should have patience on facing difficulties. Whatever may be the nature, of hardship e.g. opponents' intransigence or enmity or underhand dealings by some of the friends. The root cause of all problems is ambition, envy or anger. The key to the solution of such debacles is the passage of time, and patience and forbearance guarantee the solution.
      In the second phase we should seek forgiveness for our sins and mistakes even when we piously perform our religious duties. As mentioned above the Holy Prophet (PBUH) despite his innocence, has been asked to seek forgiveness so that his followers may take a le rom his character. After these phases, one comes to the phase of purity or sc:   purification. We should always hymn the praise of
 God and should make it a regular habit. Seeking forgiveness from Allah cleanses the inner-self or the heart, and praising Allah regularly polishes and purifies the heart.
      The main difficulties blocking our progress to reach the goals determined by us, are the lack of appreciation of realities, the ability to differentiate between right and wrong or good and bad,■ recognizing friend and foe and knowing what is harmful or     useful. But most of the time one makes   mistakes in  this
 connection. The 'Holy Quran guides us in the following way:
      "0, ye who believe. If ye    keep your: duty to Allah,    He will give you
      discrimination   (between right and wrong) and will rid    you of your     evil
      thoughts and deeds and will forgive you. Allah is of infinite- bounty."
      "(Surah Al-Anfal:  Verse-29)
      There is no doubt that the rational faculty of man enables him to
                                                               4
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             AtfiUAHJEHAfi                 VOL.  5 NO-  4
 appreciate facts and realities. But the smoke screen of ambitions, selfishness, egoism, self-seeking tendencies, greed, envy and other weaknesses render our vision foggy and blurred. In this way, we are unable to differentiate between right and wrong or good and bad. One can attain clarity of vision through purity of thought and piety and then is enabled to see the Divine Light and in that light, one can easily see through the deceptive masks of the enemies of Islam. In societies polluted with corruption and poisoned by vested interests, propaganda and in families where children are brought up without moral discipline, it is very difficult for them to differentiate between good and bad. Piety is not confined to deed alone but has a broad meaning circumscribing social and individual spheres of thought. Therefore, while reading newspapers, receiving reports or information we should try to ascertain the validity and authenticity of the source of information so that we may be able to reach a correct conclusion.
     There is a famous saying of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) that. "Temporal love is the root of all evils." It is quite obvious that temporal interests include materialist ambitions, rat race, competition for material gains and vengeancfe which cost a dark shade.on human psyche.
     If one tries to find the root cause of all the conflicts, bloodshed and internecine warfare in the contemporary world and attempts to assess the underlying reason of the fratricide among our brothers, one can clearly detect the temporal love ruling our minds. It shows that we have not learnt a lesson from the pitiable downfall of our predecessors who worshipped the wordly and temporal benefits.
     Keeping in view the importance of struggle against egoism, which is a source of discomfort to the Muslim nation of Afghanistan, after achieving a glorious victory over the enemy, it may be pointed out that this- nation is still faced with many hardships. Our hostile plotters .and conspirators are now fanning the flames of selfish ambitions in a different way. The CCAR hereafter desires to give a new direction to the cultural magazine "Afghan Jehad" in this connection. In future, it will give more space to articles and writings which may deal with reconstruction of thought and enlightenment and may encompass vast dimensions of Islamic;culture. Therefore,the Cultural Council of Afghanistan Resistance invites all intellectual brothers, scholars and writers of the country to contribute their thoughts and ideas to help us achieve this great and valuable Islamic objective.
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
          ISLAMIC CULTURE - A CHALLENGE
                             TO PROBLEMS
    The tragic events of history entail multifarious consequences which sometimes provide an opportunity to the grief-stricken nation to thoroughly assess the motivations and causes of the    tragedy and to ponder over the pros and
cons of its shortcomings, defects and weaknesses in         order to diagnose   the
malaise and to find a panacea for it.        Such a pause  or interval enables- the
people to rediscover their ownselves and    to make a firm decision to do away with
these imperfections and to lay the foundation of reforming the society and make plans for national reconstruction on reasonable principles and logical ideas so that the society may start moving in the right direction. On the other hand, sometimes these events are so destructive that they lead the nations towards a precipice of destruction, in such a manner that their origin, history and the glorious past are completely devastated and overawe them so much that they may not be able to relive as a nation and stand on their own feet and make the world feel their presence.
    Individuals also are affected immensely by such- events, sometimes they face the difficulties.with patience and are steeled and seasoned in the fight against' the challenges of time and at other times they become despondent and depressed and lose the stamina to meet the challenge of -time.
    The heroic Afghan nation after fighting for its survival, in blood and thunder, and suffering unbearable travails and tortures, is now faced with yet another struggle. Yes, it is a struggle against one's own self, a battle against conspiracies, a battle against the unknown enemy, a fight against the devil and a combat against a group of masked hypocrites. These battles have . vast and extensive dimensions and for this very reason, our Holy Prophet (PBUH) has described it as "jehad-e-Akbar" i.e. a great jehad.
    Therefore, it is upto us to resort to our own intrinsic characteristic and reorganize our individual and collective life by rejecting decadent and impure ideas imposed on us and by reinforcing our ideological infrastructure and having firm faith in one God and perfection of our divine religion and also by putting it into practice in our daily lives. After making an incisive assessment of the reasons of our weakness and disunity and the causes of the inroads of the agents of communism in our homeland, we have come to the conclusion that the following points should be taken into consideration:
1.  Today's world is faced with the challenges, struggles and strong frequencies of ideas and creeds and philosophies which are supported and propagated through the media by taking advantage of material and technical means as well as advanced modern technology. Consequently our vast world has today shrunk into a small community. The smallest and lightest happening in a far off corner of the globe or even whispered in any part of the world, is transmitted to the entire world and no country or society can close its doors or frontiers against audio/visual frequencies or ignore it.
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO- 4
      Hence the only way to such misleading propaganda is to respond to it logically and reasonably' and publicly explain the superiority i of Our sublime system and magnificent ideology.
           It is the duty of every Muslim, and particularly the religious Muslim people of Afghanistan to study the rules and regulations of his religion minutely and thoroughly. Then he should preach these principles} which have guaranteed human welfare throughout the length of time past and will guarantee in future too, to our brothers and our family so that the coming generations may have deep regard for the Islamic laws and observe it whole-heartedly. Thus we would be abie to withstand the storms of alien ideas and stand firmly on our own feet.
 2.   in-between these fatalistic thoughts, one is secularism which has of late taken root in the Islamic countries and has poisoned the -minds of a number of people. Afghanistan too is not immune to it. This school of thought is based on the separation of state from religion which is an offshopt of long struggles by the people of the West against the diversionary despotism of Christian clergy. If such an ideology is applicable to the dumb and blind creed of distorted Christianity, it is not applicable to Islam which is based on reason and logic and search for knowledge of the secrets of the universe and endeavor for the utilization of all pure and positive advantages of life.
 3.   Another such di srnpt-i*ve and anti-islamic way of thinking is the issue of Nationalism which favors the domination of some nations by other nations, racial discrimination and hegemony of one state ever the other. This school of political thought was developed by the hegemonist European imperialists of the 19th century for the sake of perpetuating their dominance over other nations. Obviously it is not in-line with the spirit of human love and dignity of man and especially Islamic culture and history. Prevalence of this- ideology was the seedbed of dilapidation of Muslim unity leading to the break-down of the Islamic Caliphate into small and weak nationalist states. The result is that today none of these separated countries has the power of resistance against the onslaught and aggressions of the expansionist colonialists. That is why they have given up their Islamic identity and spirit of mutual cooperation. So much so that these.seeds of discent have blossomed in the Islamic Countries in the shape of nationalities and ethnic groups and tribes who are always at each other’s throats. In consequence these countries are splitting into smaller and smaller units.
 4.   Scientific socialism in various and sinister shapes is another venomous ideology poisoning the Islamic societies. It has no similarity whatsoever with the values and fundamentals of Islam and’Islamic societies with their rich and glorious history and academic background and strong political, economic, cultural and military texture have no need for such an ideology.
           If the Muslims once again wake up from their deep slumber and once more have a recourse to their* rich academic resources and try to trace out the remedies for all their present-day ailments from their original and
                                                             7
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              flfGIIIIN JlHIIil              VOL.  5  NO. 4
      genuine fountainheads of pure knowledge, they can undoubtedly do a great service to their generation and the coming generations because 14 centuries ago, our vital religion had prescribed effective medicines for all sorts of social and politicial ills of humanity.
           The. only thing we need, is to look deep into our rich and abundant treasures of knowledge and learning to find the key to all the problems.
 5.   Another factor which has attracted the attention of the Islamic society to itself and disrupted the social fabric, is the life-style of our people on the pattern of the Western society, which has entrapped our younger generation . by its luxuriance, glamour, relaxation of moral and human values, with the dynamic support of all the publicity and propaganda carried out with huge expenses.
          Our young men are so bewitched with this pattern of life that they have turned a blind eye to our genuine and worthy social traditions. It is rather difficult to remove the effects of such an impact on the mind and intellect of Our youth.
 6.   Besides these evils effecting more or less all the Islamic societies, including the Afghan society, occupation of Afghanistan by the atheistic system of government for 14 years, inflicted an irreparable loss to our body politic. Russification programs in our educational, cultural, administrative and legislative fields and the resultant migration of our people to foreign lands weakened the texture of our society and alienated our youth from their original culture and Islamic heritage.
           Hundreds- of other factors have misguided our youth intellectually and have deprived them of correct appreciation of the facts of Islam.
           Under the circumstances, besides Islamisation of educational syllabi, radio broadcasts, television programs', press and the entire media, it is essential to introduce the subject 'Islamic Culture' at the University level in order to acquaint them with the real essence of Islam. Our- youth should be convinced that Islam is the only system guaranteeing human welfare which provides ct tructive and useful solutions to all our problems. If we compare the. Islamic, system with all other ideologies and systems, in a rational manner, its superiority and attributes would become apparent and undeniable.
           The CCAR has discussed, assessed and delved deep into various aspects of Islamic issues and Islamic jehad, since its very inception, keeping this end in view. Now that the armed jehad has achieved its goal, the time has come for intellectual -jehad. This is the time to replace sword with pen. Therefore, the "Afghan Jehad" magazine, hereafter, intends to devote its attention to this purpose and requests all committed intellectual and scholar brethren and those who have specialized in various fields of knowledge to write articles analysing Islamic ideology in order to help . this journal attain its objects and to assist the CCAR morally by their writings. In this way they would contribute positively towards raising the
                                                               8
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     flfKHJINJ(HAO                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
    . standard of general information of our countrymen and perform their social obligation vis-a-vis the nation and fulfil the requirement of their Faith as preachers of Islam for the sake of Allah, the magnificent.-
          THE AHL-E-HAL-WA-AQD COUNCIL AND PUBLIC DEDUCTIONS
    * These days the Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd is a burning topic among political and literary circles. People express different opinions about its meaning and connotations. Some call it an "imported term". Others compare it with: the terminology of Loya Jirgah while some other people regard it as one of the Islamic nomenclatures. Another circle considers it baseless and sbme groups have held conferences on this issue and have interpreted it from various angles.
     In fact all this cacophony is the outcome of the unfamiliarity of this term in our legal terminology. Otherwise it- has no difference in meaning with the terms of Supreme Islamic Assembly or Islamic Loya Jirgah or the Islamic Council. If the topic under discussion be usage of Arabic terms, it may be pointed out that 40% of the existing Dari language consists of Arabic roots and Arabic words which are used with a little variation or sometimes in their original shape and form. In particular our legal terminologies are mostly composed of Arabic words. The obvious reason is that we belong to a Muslim society and our Islamic Code and laws of life are based on the Holy Quran and the Traditions of the Holy Prophet (PBUH.) which are in Arabic and all our jurisprudents and scholars have written their books and treatises in this language. Besides, a majority of Muslim writers and authors of even Arabic grammar and philology, have been non-Arabs. The reason being that on the one hand Arabic language is the common language of all the Muslims of the world, and has no Special relationship with a particular tribe or nationality. God Almighty has selected,this language, due to its comprehensiveness, as the religious language of Islam and has composed His Book in this vital language and selected his last prophet from amongst the best orators of the Arab tribes and hence each and every Muslim is obliged to deduce his relgious instructions, covering all the dimensions of his life, from this language. On the other hand, the Arabs in the early Islamic period, did not face much difficulty in understanding the meaning of the Holy Quran and the Sayings of the Holy Prophet (PBUH). Later on, subsequent to the spread of Islam to non-Arab countries, its infusion in alien cultures and languages and conversion of the people of these countries to Islam, difficulties were faced by these people in comprehending the meaning and connotations of the Islamic teachings in their original form. Then the Muslim scholars had to devise grammatical rules and regulations for a correct appreciation of the meaning of these instructions from their original source. They devised principles for logical deduction of the Islamic jurisprudence and for determining the validity and otherwise of the Sayings and Traditions of the. Holy Prophet (PBUH) so that they may be able to abstain from any mis-comprehension of the Shari'at and to pronounce and recite the Quranic text properly.
    Therefore, no Muslim particularly the Dari speaking Afghans, can say that the Arabic language is a foreign or alien language, because if Arabic words
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992               fllGHAN JEHAO                   VOL.  5 NO. 4
 which embellish the Dari language, be taken out of this language, the Dari language will be deprived of its beauty and refinment.
      As the focal point of this article is the explanation of the term "Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd", we would avoid any digressions and concentrate on the description of the terminology, as under:
 SHOORA: ±t is an Arabic word but because it has been used frequently in our
 legal and cultural phrases since quite a long time, it is not unfamiliar. "Shoora" has been mentioned in the dictionaries as the act of drawing out honey from the honey-comb or sometimes as the act of examining the body of an an?mal before striking a deal *for its purchase. There are some other meanings also for the same. Later on this term was used in the Islamic Code for expressing the direction and sense of the phrase in different cbntexts. The Holy Quran reads:
      "Consult each other ... .and decide after due consultation." Similarly it
 has been mentioned many a time in, the Sayings and Traditions of the Holy
 Prophet (PBUH).
      • t
      Its literal meaning is to seek something. Religious scholars have explained it in this manner:
      "Assembly of people to consult each other and to come to conclusion." . (Ahkam-ul-Quran)
      Raghab has said, "Shoora means coming to conclusion on the basis of mutual consultation."
      Some others say:  "Shoora                    means referring a subject  to the experts in order
 to elicit their views."
 AHL: It has many meanings                        and is used in the appropriate context. In the term
 Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd it means more decent, more piroper and     more deserving, (see
 Larus Dictionary).
 HAL: This word also has many and                        varied meanings. In the above cited term, It
 connotes untying a knot,                        solving problems, giving proper counsel and giving a
 correct answer to a question, (see Almonjad and Larus Dictionary).
 AQD: This word too has various meanings. Here it means treaty, commitment,
 fastening a      knot, guaranteeing and strengthening, (see Almonjed   and                     Larus
 Dictionary).
      Keeping          In view the above meanings' and  connotations,   the                      term
 "Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" would be interpreted as:                         "A Council of Muslims
 having deep insight into the affairs of the society and trusted and respected by the people."
      It may be pointed out that Shoora, without taking into consideration the qualifications of its members, is a fundamental principle of the Islamic political system recommended by the Holy Quran, Traditions'of the Holy Prophet
                                         10
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        AFGHAN JIHAD'              VOL. 5 NO.  4
 (PBUH) and consensus of the Holy Companions. As to the question, whether
 consultation is mandatory for the Muslim Caliphs (Heads of State) or desirable,
                                                                 )
 there exists a difference of opinion among the Islamic scholars.
      A group of religious scholars like Qortabi, Sayed Qotb, Abdul Qader Owdah, Mohammad Abdoh, Mahmood Saltoot, Mohammad Abu Zahrah, Abdul Wahab Khallaf and Abdul Hameed Motawalli consider consultation mandatory and say that if a head of state does not consult Muslim scholars, he should be dismissed.
      The religious scholars believe that the Holy Prophet (PBUH) in view of the Divine Revelation and’ innocence bestowed on him, immunising him against all sins, cannot be subjected to mandatory consultation. (Obviously all the Islamic .leaders do not enjoy the same immunity and hence the rule of. consultation •remains in force). Therefore, the mission of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) may be interpreted as educating the Muslim community, character-building, enlightenment, eliciting public endorsement, creating awareness, convincing them with logical arguments, discouraging undue criticism of some of the hypocrites, paying due respect and regard for the opinion and status of the people and leaving behind good traditions and examples to enable the Muslims to follow the line of    the   Holy Prophet. On the other hand Shoora has been       legalized for
 permissible affairs, in case there are no explicit instructions in the. affairs under question. This argument also softens the mandatory aspect of consultation and reduces it to a desirable or advisable course of action.
      As regards the question that consultation is mandatory for the Head of State or otherwise, there are different opinipns. -IJotwithstanding opinions and observations of the religious scholars in this connection, it is certain that when we take into consideration the policy line of the Holy Prophet pertaining to the modality of consultation, we find that sometimes he has considered it mandatory and despite difference of personal opinion, has deemed it necessary to agree to   the   consensus and sometimes has not conceded to it and has taken a
 decision  commensurate with  the need   of the hour. Similarly at      times he has
 accepted  the     view of the majority  whereas at other times,        he has given
 preference to an individual's opinion. Keeping in view the points discussed above, one comes to the conclusion that if an issue is not a "Shara'i" or Islamic Code question, and is not categorized as • a technical or legal subject, . the majority opinion has been given credence. For example in the Battle of Ohud, contrary to his own opinion and the opinion of the esteemed companions, he accepted the- view of the majority to migrate from Medina and even after the plea of the consultants that . they had been forced to give such an advice, he did not deviate from his earlier decision. But in regard to digging a ditch around Medina, in order to defend it in the Battle of Ahzaab, which was a technical matter, he gave credence to the advice of Salman Farsi. On the other, hand in Battle of Badr, he agreed to the view of Habaab Ibn Manzar. But in the case of "Solh-e-Hodaybia" which was nearly unanimously disapproved by the companions and disputed it vehemently and Hazrat Omar (May Allah Bless his Soul) said, "are you not the righteous prophet of God? Are we not on the right?" and despite this argument as to why they should accept such humiliating conditions, he responded: "I am a servant and Prophet of God and would not go against the Divine Command", It seems that the above decision was taken on the basis of Divine Revelation and the Islamic Code went against conceding to the advice of the Holy Companions.'but
                                           11
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992               AIGIIAN J[HAD                 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 the reason was not discernable to others. Later surah Fatth was revealed in this connection and then the companions appreciated the wisdom and sagacity of the compromise and restoration of peace which later on proved to be the foundation stone of subsequent victories by the Muslims.
                                                         ■     .             i
      It should be noted that there is a difference between advice and consultation. As the Holy Quran advises that we should discuss and exchange views about a matter in question. It applies to all the Muslims everywhere. Of course, the basic condition is that the person concerned should be adult and sensible. Muslims can express ' their opinion about every question and none has the right to deny them the said privilege. That is why the Holy Prophet (PBUH), in all cases, whether paying heed'to their advice or not, had never stopped them from expressing their opinion. After listening to their opinions, he always took a proper and befitting decision and rejected any improper or inappropriate line of action, as explained earlier.
      But consultation is the obligation of the higher authorities i.e. the Caliph or the Head of the Islamic state. He is obliged to consult in matters devoid of any Shara’i (Islamic Code) aspect. The reason is that in the case of matters pertaining tb Shari’at (Islamic Code), which is a divine prerogative, the   servants       of           GOd (human beings) cannot take a decision  on their o,wn
 discretion or change the principles of the Islamic Code. On the other hand, a head of state Should consult with those or select those as his consultants, who should be experts in their field and should have a distinct position among his colleagues or in his community or group. For this very reason the Holy Prophet (PBUH) selected Hazrat Abu Bakr and Hazrat Omar (May Allah Bless their Souls) as his consultants and said to them:
      "If you two come to understanding on a certain matter, I shall have no say against it".
      In this       way           the Head of State is obliged to act on the advice of his
 consultants, otherwise consultation will lose its significance and will become a plaything.
      Thus we      come to the conclusion that the Islamic head of state should refer
 an  important issue to the well-informed  and highly  experienced           persons of an
 Islamic society. But if an issue concerns the non-Muslim residents of an Islamic society and is not related to Shari'at or Islamic belief or is one of the technical or scientific issues out of the jurisdiction of the Islamic specialists, that issue ought to be referred to non-Muslim specialists or experts. The head of state should select advisors for individual and collective problems so that they may assist him in decision making policies and as far as possible enable- him to avoid any mistake or error in administration. Thus the national assembly would not be a public place where everyone could enter conveniently and freely and have access to the state secrets. At this point, the Shpora-e-Ah1-e-Hal-wa-Aqd steps in.
 1    Membership to this council would not be unqualified. For this very reason,
 in most of the election rules throughout the world, certain qualifications are prescribed for members of the parliament. Islam too has laid down specific
                                             12
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            AfGIIANJfHM)                     VOL. 5 NO. 4
 qualifications for members of the said council which has been abbreviated in the term "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" by the. concerned religious scholars. These qualifications are as follows:
      Justice (which in itself encompasses many qualifications), educational qualification, knowledge, maturity, influence and credibility and good reputation. However, it is upto the people to select the most qualified and the most distinguished among these.
      Inspite of this, I think it is better to use familiar terms in legal affairs, and to strictly desist from using such words and phrases which may create disscusions or doubts among people or affect the credibility of the judiciary. The reason being that the process of consultation with people and inviting their representatives for ensuring public participation in national affairs, rests on the pillars of mutual trust between the people and the government. There the use of such words which may not add to the content or concept of a subject or if not used, do not subtract and reduce from the meaning of a subject, should be discarded so that it may not harm the credibility and trust established so far. Therefore, the description of qualifications' should be within the framework of the familiar and well-known legal terminology currently in use in the country.
13
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992   IlfCHANJfHAO        VOL- 5 NO. 4
 Political Dimension
 a Second Phase of the Peshawar Accord is Implemented.
 Ongoing inter-mujaheddin conflicts
                                      n
 ^ Events in Afghanistan and reluctance of international community to assist.
    Subsequent to the first article of Peshawar Accord, the return of different mujaheddin groups to Kabul, new developments took place in the political scenario of the country and such conditions prevailed which could never be imagined and even could hardly be foreseen. Armed conflicts among various groups, caused queer sufferings, casualties and displacement to the people of Afghanistan. The situation was so grim that as against the return of a number of refugees to the country, a large number fled Kabul to take refuge in other regions and in certain cases, some of the refugees who had returned to Kabul, had to migrate once more.
    This tension still continues. Not only we could not find a solution to these problems, but we have been caught in the whirlwind of troubles and travails, too. Here we will have a bird's-eye view of the salient * points of these developments.
                     MUJADDEDI AND RELINQUISHING OF POWER
    Professor Mujaddedi, according to Article I of the Peshawar Accord left for Kabul on 28 April, 1992 and was appointed Acting Head of the Interim government. In the concluding days of his tenure, he tried to remain in power for five years or at least two years. He said, "elders and commanders from different provinces call on me and ask to extend my tenure of presidentship." On the other hand, Professor Rabbani, who has been nominated as Head of the State after two months, as per the Peshawar Accord, has returned to Kabul before the prescribed period. He is not only waiting for the opportunity, but has practically become functional as the Chairman of the Leadership Council, too. He takes decisions which are sometimes contrary to the decisions of Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi causing displeasure to the latter.
    In this way Prof. Mujaddedi tried to enhance his tenure whereas Prof. Rabbani desired to assume power on schedule. These differences surfaced even in news reports and radio interviews but did not last much longer.
                                            14
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AFGHAN MAO                  VOL. 5 NO. 4
Meanwhile, Pakistan sent a letter to Sebghatullah Mujaddedi urging him to abide by the Peshawar Accord. Besides this, reminder of Rashid Dostum that Prof. Mujaddedi should not stay in power a day longer than the schedule, convinced him to relinquish power. But he was not willing to band over power so easily and felt displeased. Therefore he declared that he would not hand over power to Prof. Rabbani but to the Leadership Council which could transfer power to anyone deemed fit.
     Due to this annoyance, while handing over power to the Leadership and Jehadic councils. Prof. Mujaddedi strongly criticized Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf, Ahmad Shah Masood, the Defence Minister, and some other personalities and disclosed that at the same time when he assumed the responsibilities of the Head of the Islamic ^tate. Prof. Rabbani too started functioning as chief of the Leadership Council taking decisions often contradictory to the decisions of the jehadic council. This added to the confusion because of numerous decision making authorities ih Afghanistan. Prof. Mujaddedi added that some of the elders while suggesting general amnesty, demanded establishing special courts, which caused concern among the people. Therefore, the government declared general amnesty and accepted the setting-up of special courts for those Who created disorder subsequent to the establishment of the Islamic government.
     Prof. Mujaddedi accused Prof. Sayyaf by declaring that although he planned the Peshawar Accord, yet on arrival in Kabul, instead of assisting the government he started anti-government propaganda and began an armed conflict with the. connivence of the foreign enemies of Afghanistan against HWIA (Hezb-e-Wahdat-e-Islami-Afghanistan) and according to authenticated reports is even now preparing for another round of battle against our Shia brethren.
     As regards the Defence Ministry, he stated, "the Presidency was occupied by the Defence Ministry and I had only two rooms at my disposal for running the country's affairs." He added, "during my internal or external journeys, the Defence Ministry made no arrangements. The JIA and the Shoora-e-Nezar (Supervisory Council) used1 the Ministry of Information and Culture as well as Radio and Television as their personal or party property to achieve their personal or partisan objectives. Hence, more often than not, my speeches and statements and news from the President's Office were censored or disallowed to be broadcast by radio and television."
     Prof. Mujaddedi in his statement thanked HWIA and National Islamic Movement that despite dissatisfaction, due to their non-participation in the government, they cooperated with the government for the sake of national unity and security. Ironically, this statement of Prof. Mujaddedi too was not covered by the media. But radio "Payam-e-Azadi" and the journal WAFA publicized the text of this statement, A complete text of the same, has been published in the November C issue of the WAFA journal.
                                 PROFESSOR RABBANI ASSUMES POWER
     On 29 June, 1992 after Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi relinquished power, Prof.. Rabbani's long wait for transfer of power also came to an end and the second phase of the Peshawar Accord was implemented. However this phase included the nomination of a Prime Minister by Engineer Hekmatyar.
                                            15
JULY-SEPTEM8ER, 1992              (IfflllllNJIHM                VOL. 5 NO. 4
      Engineer Hekmatyar had already selected Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed for this purpose. He announced once again that Ustad Fareed would proceed to Kabul to take charge of the post but if the working conditions were not favorable for him, he would give up the post. HIA desired ,that Ustad Fareed should proceed to Kabul at the earliest. According to some reports, the Gelam Jam militia did not like the idea and created trouble to make it difficult for him to do so. But inspite of these difficulties, Ustad Fareed, accompanied by an armed group, proceeded to Kabul 6 July and was received by the Defence Minister and the Interior Minister at Khairkhanah. Though as a result of assuming the seat of presidency by Prof. Rabbani and taking the reigns of the Islamic government by Ustad Fareed, apparently the process of the Peshawar Accord continued as planned, yet in fact new difficulties came on the surface. In the same manner as Prof. Mujaddedi, during his tenure, faced reservations on the part of the Defence Ministry and the Ministry of Information and Culture, Ustad Fareed also faced the same predicament. He wanted, as a matter of principle, to form the cabinet at his own discretion but the previous cabinet was imposed on him and his presence was only ceremonial. So much so that the situation became so ridiculous that the daily Anis published a news item under the heading "Ustad Fareed called on    the Defense Minister". Owing to this   indifferent attitude,
 after one month, Ustad Fareed, under the pretext of visit to Pakistan and Iran,
 gave up the post   and once again the political atmosphere of the country was
 overshadowed by military conflicts.
                                     POLICY OF THE STATE
      It is interesting to note that Prof. Mujaddedi without announcing the state policy completed his two-months tenure in the absence of a clear cut program. But Prof. Rabbani three days after undertaking his responsibility, announced his policy in a radio speech on July 1, and after a couple of days of taking charge as Prime Minister Ustad Fareed too explained his official policy in his radiotelevision speech. Their-policies had many common and agreeable points but there were sortie points  of  difference too. Ustad Fareed put     great stress on the
 appointment of committed and religious persons in the administration but Prof. Rabbani's statement did not contain such matters. The latter called upon all the intellectuals, scholars, engineers, doctors and specialists to return to their country and take part, in the reconstruction of the homeland.
      Prof. Rabbani, in his speech, desired practical application of the ideological teachings of Islam in all the sectors of life. On the other hand Ustad Fareed emphasized the complete establishment of Divine justice in the country. Both of them stressed the importance of establishing peace and tranquility and promised to protect the life, property and honor of the people. However, Ustad Fareed added, "all our assets haVe been looted."
      Prof. Rabbani, with reference to his commitment for establishing national sovereignty and protecting territorial integrity by respecting the right of the people and by implementing the principle of the Shoora, promised to ensure public participation in the general elections. On the other hand, Ustad Fareed emphasizing the importance of elections, said, "we regard elections as the best means to form a strong central government, safeguarding the rights of all the
                                            16
july-sepYember, 1992              AlfillANJ[HAO                  vol. 5 no. 4
 nationalities and removing the organisational bottlenecks. Hence we are trying to make arrangements for the elections."
      Both the professors promised to establish a department for looking after the needs of the families of the martyrs and the physically disabled. Both of them promised to pave the way for free-of-cost education for all the children and to extend the system of education to the farthest corners of. the land.
      Prof. Rabbani said# "the educational system ought'to be commensurate with the principles and fundamentals of Islam as well as the daily requirements of life. Therefore, we have to basically change the existing educational system." Ustad Fareed said, "in our educational system, Islamic teachings should be the infrastructure and we should try to acquaint our Muslim people, to the maximum extent, with the Islamic philosophy."
      Both the professors did not throw much light on the female education and the womens' rights, but promised that women can benefit from the specific rights granted by Islam to them and can acquire education according to the Islamic requirements. Similarly they promised to extend health and medical services to all.
      As regards the press, Prof. Rabbani said, "within the framework of Islamic Shariat and national interests and keeping in view the social norms and moral values, respect the freedom of expression. Therefore, the media, radio and television should function within the framework of the Islamic Code and its regulations . "
    Ustad Fareed said, "we will try t.hat official and other newspapers and radio and television beat the service of the nation and be a source of highlighting, the noble teachings of Islam and enlightening the mind of the people." But none of them clarified freedom of the press.
      As regards economy. Prof. Rabbani rejected the idea of government monopoly in imports and said that the business community have the permission to deal in trade matters according to the country's demands. Ustad Fareed also emphasized the collection of Zakat and introducing a strict system of taxation. Prof. Rabbani expressing hi.s opinion about the banking system, which is a much disputed subject in the Islamic societies, remarked that banking system would be organized in the frame-work of the Islamic Shariat and keeping in view the demands and needs of the society. But Ustad Fareed did not make any specific reference to the system of banking and in regard to agriculture, inter a'lia referred to the re-opening and re-activating the Agricultural Development Bank.
      Speaking about foreign policy, they laid stresse on the policy of non-alignment, mutual respect and holding the United Nations Organization in esteem. Prof. Rabbani declared war against Zionism, fascism and communism. Besides, he expressed his gratitude to Pakistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia and Egypt for their close and friendly association with the Afghan jehad and their help and assistance for this cause. Although India till now had not done anything for the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and had close and friendly relations with the erstwhile communist regime, yet he desired to have friendly relations with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                            17 I
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992             AFGHAN JFHAII                VOL.  5 NO. 4
 that country. He recalled the help and assistance extended by China, USA and Japan and desired to establish friendly relations with the newly independent states of Uzbekistan, Turkemanistan and Tadjekistan. He favored amicable relations with the Russian Federation succeeding the former USSR, provided it offers generous aid. He also expressed his willingness to be an active member of the UN, the NAM and the OIC. On the other hand, Us.tad Fareed only recalled the assistance of Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia and pledged that Afghanistan would continue to be an active member of the OIC and the NAM. (Full text of the •policy statements by Prof. Rabbani and Ustad Fareed have been published in the dailies Hewad and Anis).
     But inspite of the fact that these statements were broadcast by the radio station and the pages of the newspapers were filled with them, in actual practice contrary to all this, tension and confusion prevails.
                       HIA/S OPPOSITION TO THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT
     From the day the mujaheddin arrived in Kabul, the HI A has emphasized that the Gelam Jam Militia be expelled from Kabul, the,former communists be dismissed from the key civil and military posts' and general elections be held in the country. This is a summary of the conditions on which Engineer Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, always laid stress and the authorities have also accepted them in principle and have particularly assured in the reconciliation meetings that the militia would be dissolved and the communist military officers would be dismissed. Howeve, ali these tensions are to the mostt extent by-product of the differences between the HIA and the government.
                                      MILITARY CONFLICTS
     Political tensions, factional conflicts, sectarian and ideological differences and moreover foreign interventions have turned Kabul into an arena of limited and large-scale armed clashes. Among these clashes between HWIA and IIA, the most brutal and the bloodiest battle took place 2 June and the second started 18 July in the southern areas of Kabul. As a result of this three-day conflict a large number of people were killed and such war crimes were committed which is shameful to mention. Nails were driven into the heads, enemies were slaughtered like animals, some were burnt- alive inside containers and women and children were killed mercilessly as witnessed by many of our countrymen. This was not the last conflict because on August 8 a third clash also started which was more painful as well as more brutal than even the previous clashes and heaviest weapons were used in the fighting. Private houses and public installations and buildings were destroyed mercilessly and once again human beings were cruelly butchered to death.
     The wounds of these clashes had not healed yet, when the fourth battle flared up on September 19 and* again left behind many casualties and much destruction which will be rather irreparable. As. a result of these bloody clashes, most of. the areas in Kabul were damaged. For instance, among other places, Mirwais Maidan, Khushal Maina, Qala-e-Shadah, Dasht-e-Barchi, Jamal Maina, Sarae Ghazni, Deh Buri, Karteh Seh and Karteh Char, Chandawol and soirie other parts of the suburbs of Kabul were' either completely destroyed or severely damaged. Hundreds of people were killed or maimed during these clashes.
                                      18
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             A[fillANJtKAfl                VOL. 5 NO. 4
      On the other hand, during the first week of August, 1992 fighting broke out between the HIA and the Kabul government in which heavy weapons were used. In this battle too the HIA claimed that the Militia opened fire on their posts in the south of Kabul which triggered the clashes. But the government sources claimed that the HIA, instigated the other party by throwing rockets on the airport. In these skirmishes which covered the areas from Shaiwaki to Khair Khana Maina, Chehil Satoon, char Asyab and the entire eastern, southern and central parts of Kabul, besides the military targets, civilian targets including residential areas and public places were also hit and damaged. Rockets were carelessly fired, bombs were mercilessly thrown and heavy and light weapons were used freely. These barbaric and gory clashes continued for about a month, leaving behind a painful trail of human and financial losses.
      Subsequent to these happenings. Prof. Rabbani demanded the trial of Engineer Hekmatyar. But Engineer Hekmatyar said that he was fighting against the militia and the communist remnants of the former regime. He added that if Prof. Rabbani desired to put an end to the fighting, he should fix a date for the expulsion of the militia.
      However, these clashes, besides causing casualties and damaging public and private property, forced people to start another series of migrations.
                                       NEW MIGRANT CARAVANS.
      Unfortunately, due to the fighting between IIA and HWIA on the one hand and HIA and the government on the other, the residents of Kabul were compelled to leave their hearth and homes and to migrate. Some left for Mazar-e-Sharif and crossing the border, entered Tadjekistan. Many more left for Jalalabad. Some of them took up residence in between Kabul and Jalalabad. A number of them reached Jalalabad and also sought refuge in Peshawar.
      Although it was announced that by the last week of July 1992 one fourth of the refugees from Pakistan would be repatriated and consequently about 90,000 refugees returned to Afghanistan every week, yet in view of the outbreak of fresh fightings not only repatriation of the refugees became doubtful, but a * large number of Kabul residents became refugees. Even those refugees who had returned recently to Afghanistan, fled back across the border. According to a survey, 35,000 Afghans returned to Peshawar. Moreover, these infightings resulted in political migrations, too.
                            EXIT OF DIPLOMATS FROM AFGHANISTAN
      After the establishment of the Islamic government, many governments/ recognized this government, officially. Some other governments were considering/ to recognize it, at the earliest. But in view of these bloody infightings, the foreign envoys and diplomats felt insecure. Meanwhile, a couple of diplomats belonging to the Russian Embassy were murdered and a number of embassies suffered financial losses. As the diplomats felt insecure, they requested for a temporary ceasefire to be able to depart safely. But they could not find such, an opportunity and ultimately decided to escape on their own and many of them escaped via Tadjekistan and consequently the process of official recognition of
                                            19
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              AIGHAfl JEHAfl ■ '            VOL.  5 NO.   4
 the new government in Kabul, discontinued.
                                        PAGHMAN MEETING
      On September 17 the Leadership Council held a dramatic meeting at Paghman which was attended by Prof. Rabbani, Engineer Hekmatyar, Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Prof. Sayyaf which lasted for three hours. They agreed on these points:
      - Bombing of Shindand Airport, Sher Khan Port and Pul-e-Khomri should be stopped as soon as possible.
         The detained members of HIA should be freed.
                \ '
         The militia and the communists should be expelled from Kabul.
 • ' ‘ ' \ • . . -
      - The communist elements in government and public departments ought to be dismissed.
        Decisions of   the Leadership Council, the                          Peshawar Accord and the
        Conciliation Commission should be implemented.
      - Ministry of Interior should be made responsible to maintain law and order in the city of Kabul.
      - Representatives of all the parties should form a commission to convene a National Council.
           Each district should select two delegates for the proposed council.
      But this accord  too like                        the other decision lasted for the three-hour
 duration of the meeting and remained ineffective.
                                     INTERNATIONAL RELIEF
      After Afghanistan freed itself from the yoke of the Russians, many countries of the world responding to the UN call for help towards the reconstruction of \Afghanrstan, had promised to provide all soi^ts of help and assistance in cast     and kind and expressed their willingness to assist
 Afghanistan provided^ political                        order is restored   in the country. But the
 political dissensionsand tensions blocked the path of such assistance. Even many of the agencies who were busy rendering service to the refugees in Pakistan, did not consent to extend their services inside Afghanistan. Thus the Afghan nation, which had heroically saved the world from the evils of Russian communism, was deprived of foreign help and the reconstruction program did not materialise. However in some places, the people started reconstruction on self-help basis and with elementary resources.
20
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992       AfGHANJIHAO                 VOL. 5 NO. 4
        AFGHAN
     RECONSTRUCTION,
     REHABILITATION
21
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
1
   AGRICULTURAL SURVEY OF
        AFGHANISTAN


 • • • •
Wv?vV^.V.‘
         EDITOR'S NOTE: Following is the text of the 12th Agricultural survey report of Afghanistan compiled by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA), The text, indicating the 1990/91 survey, has been taken from the (SCA) annual report• * *

 i)     Overall  there is little encouraging news to report on agriculture in
        Afghanistan. On the whole, yields for the main crops were as low as they have been since the beginning of the war and the area of the main crops grown of the typical farm remained unchanged. However, there were some positive signs too. Rice yield showed an increase and good rainfall in certain areas led to increase in growing of wheat. Tractor ownership has doubled while hiring of tractors has increased by 60%. In term of livestock, poor farmers became poorer and those with bigger flocks acquired more animals.
        Irrigated wheat yields did not change much in 1990 and were almost as low as before 1989. There was no significant difference in average area under irrigated wheat or in the proportion of farmers growing the crop.
                * 1                 V
        For rainfed wheat there was no significant difference between 1989 and 1990 in average yield or in average area cultivated. However, the number of farmers growing the crop increased by 50%.
        Average maize yields were the lowest since 1978 at 39 seers/jerib.
v)     Ri.ce yields showed signs of overall increase from 59 seers/jerib, but
        are still a long way from the 1978 average of 80 seers/jerib.
ii)
iii)
iv)
vi)     Barley yields showed no change from 1989 and remained lower than any time since 1978.
vii)    Cotton production in terms of the proportion of’farmers growing the crop in the ,areas outside government control continued to decline.
                    :t 1 ' . ...
viii)   The main forage crops alfalfa and clover showed no significant change.
    i
ix)  . The trend in cultivation of pulses is mixed. The proportion
                                              22
of farmers
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              flfCHflNJtHflfl                 VOL. 5 WO. 4
        and the area they cultivate varies from year to year, probably due to rainfall and irrigation-water availability. Peas, mung and beans are important pulses.
 x)     In general there were no significant changes in the production of fruit and vegetables.
 xi)    Among the oil seed crops, linseed is the most widely grown. Nationally the proportion of farmers growing the crop fell/by over a quarter in 1990 compared to 1989.
 xii)   The principal problems for farmers       leading to low yields were    in-
        sufficient irrigation, water-supply and weeds in irrigated area and pests and locusts in rainfed areas.
 xiii)  Farm family demography reveals that     10 to 20 year olds are few on  the
        average farm compared to those aged     upto 10. The ratio is roughly  1:2
        whereas in normal circumstances a ratio closer to 1:1 could be expected.
 xiv)   Average total farm sizes continue to decline.
 xv)    Overall there is little discernible change in average irrigated cultivated area. The same is true for the rainfed area.
 xvi)   The trend of the last three years     shows thfit fewer farmers own larger
        flocks of sheep and goats.
 xvii)  There was no significant change in the average number of cows and calves per farm family or in the proportion of farmers owning them.
 xviii) More farmers now own a team of two     oxen and fewer own one. At the same
        time a greater proportion now own        no oxen at all. They hire tractor
        services. The proportion of farmers owning tractors has doubled. Nearly a third of farmers now hire tractors.
 xix)   Different strategies are required for different zones where tractors and oxen are used in different combinations.
 ixx)   There has been an increase in all       zones in the proportion of farmers
        using fertilizers and in some zones, this has been substantial. However, on a national basis average amounts used were as low as at any time since 1978. Prices of fertilizers varied widely, but in almost all cases were below Pakistan levels.
 xxi)   Fortysix percent of farmers reported that they used improved irrigated wheat seed in 1990. In some provinces the figure was more than 90% and in some others it was less than 10%. The use of improved seed in other crops is negligible.
 xxii)  The pre-war situation in improved seed has now been achieved. This shows a great success but a large amount of work is still to be done in the
                                         23
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              DfGIMINJlHAfl                  VOL. 5  NO.  4
       seed sector.
 xxiii) In response to 1990 questionnaire no food shortage was reported in 14 districts. Most reports of food shortages were from the North and are clearly linked to locust and pest damages and probably also to weeds.
                              1.   INTRODUCTION
 1.1. This report is the twelfth in the series based on the results of the agricultural survey of Afghanistan started in 1987. The first report in the series drew attention to the nature and scale of the problem of agricultural          rehabilitation which would be necessary before or
       immediately after the return of refugees.
 1.2    This twelfth report summarizes the results of the survey carried out in 1990 by province by crop, by farm input or farm enterprise. The report comprises the 1990 survey results with earlier ASA surveys and identifies changes and trends where it is valid to do so.
       For the sake of brevity and clarity the information is presented in this report on a provincial or sometimes a zonal basis. However, most information has also now been analysed on a district basis.
                            2. FARM SIZE AND DEMOGRAPHY.
 2.1    Broadly the country can be divided into areas based on farm size and farming systems.
       a)  Predominantly small irrigated farms of less than 15 jeribs:      This
       category can be further divided into those in the East and those in the West.
       b)  Medium sized farms of more than 15 jeribs with rainfed and irrigated
       land: This  category can be  further divided into those in  the North and
       those in the South.
       c)  Predominantly large rainfed farms where more than 60% of farmers have more than 30 jeribs of land.
       FARM SIZE:
 2.2    In some provinces the figures for average farm size have shown a steady decrease over the last three years. In other provinces the figures for average areas remain constant or have fluctuated between years. This variation is due to the variation in rainfed land ploughed each year.
 2.3    Over the last 3 years the figures in some provinces show a decline in the average irrigated cultivated area per farm. In other provinces the areas have fluctuated from year to year within a relatively small band.
 2.4    With cultivated rainfed areas, in many provinces a little area was cultivated in 1989. Most of these provinces recovered in 1990.
                                        24
 JllLYrSEPTEMBER. 1992            flfGHflN JIHflO                VOL.        5 NO. 4
 2.5   Taking the country as a whole, the main reason for these large fluctuations in average rainfed cultivated area is the large variation in rainfall from year to year.
 2.6   During the survey it was found that it is traditional for almost all rainfed land to be left fallow for at leaist a year.
 2.7   HOUSEHOLD SIZE
       Although there are wide variations between provinces, the average farm household consists of about 11 people of which four are under ten years old, two are aged 10 to 20, four are aged 20 to 50 and one is more than 50 years. In all provinces the number of children below 10 years is far greater than those aged 10-20.. In normal circumstances it could be expected that the number of people aged between zero and ten is almost equal to those aged between 10 and twenty.
                                  3.   CROPS AND YIELDS
       IRRIGATED WHEAT
 3 1
       Irrigated wheat is grown by almost all farmers in Afghanistan and in all areas. However, it is of relatively less importance in the rainfed areas of the North.
 3.2   Irrigated wheat yields in 1990 appear not to have changed much over the last three years and to be almost as low as at any time since before 1989. National average yields for 1990 were 49 seers/jerib against 52 seers/jerib in 1988 and 48 seers/jerib in 1989,. However, there have been significant changes on a regional or zonal basis.
 3.3   Herat province showed' the highest provincial average             yield   of 87
       seers/jerib because some parts of the province are very fertile and farmers there put more area on their irrigated wheat.
 3.4   The 1990 results show the same average figure as 1989 for the proportion of the farmers growing the crop. Similarly there is no significant difference- in average area under irrigated wheat on a national or zonal basis. However, there were significant changes in same provinces in average total area Cultivated.
 3.5   There is a potential for yield increases      in irrigated        wheat through
       intended programs of improved seed           distribution, fertilizers,
       irrigation water availability and crop protection. The area under the crop can also be increased through improved farm power availability and better water availability.
       RAINFED WHEAT
       Rainfed wheat predominates in the larger     rainfed farms       of the  North,
       North-East and North-West. In the rest of the country it is of minor
                                            25
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992         flfCIIANJflflfl           VOL. 5 NO.  4
        importance,
 3.6    Nationally, there was no significant difference between 1990 and 1989 in average yield or the average area cultivated.
 3.7    The yields further declined in North-Eastern provinces, and showed no signs of recovering to their 1988 level. Because of highest rainfall Paktia had the highest yield in the country.
 3.8    In                 1990 the six leading provinces in rainfed  wheat area showed some
        variations in the proportion of farmers who grew the crop in 1990.
 3.9    Apart from factors which are not controllable, like the weather, any
        immediate improvement in rainfed wheat production seems to depend almost entirely on the availability oif farm power and seed. Other factors are pre-sowing treatment of seed, and use* of improved varieties. But these varieties are not yet available in Afghanistan.         .
        MAIZE
 3.10   Maize is predominantly grown in the small irrigated farm sector.
 3.11   Average yields in 1990 were the lowest since 1978.
 3.12   The                  average area under maize declined since   1987* There was small
        recovery in 1989 and 1990.
 3.13   The               proportion of farmers now growing maize on national basis is about
        the same as the figure of 1978. Now that irrigation is being
        rehabilitated those who had started cultivating maize in place of rice are again switching over to rice cultivation, and cultivation of maize is again on the decline.
 3.14   Average areas under maize ranged between 2 and 5 jeribs. The greatest average area of 12 jeribs under maize was in Helmand province.
 3.15   Over-all Helmand and Kunar remained the leading maize provinces.
 3.16   Maize is the second most important crop in                     Afghanistan. It has a
        potential for a large increase in yield through the use of improved variaties, balanced fertilizers and crop protection chemicals.
 3.17   Some efforts have been made by UN agencies and NGOs to introduce improved varieties, but their adoption by farmers has so far been negligible.
        BARLEY
 3.18   The main area for barley production is in the Urge rainfed farms of the North, North-East and North-West.
 3.19   In 1990 average yield in North-East and North-West zones recovered from the low, level of 1989, but in the North the average yields were about one
                                                 26
1
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            MCIIANJtHAO                  VOL. 5 NO. 4
                          third of the national averages, and about half the 1988 and 1989 levels.
3.20
3.21
3.22
3.23   The national average yield began to return towards earlier higher level, in 1990.
3.24   The higher national yield may be because of some decline in war intensity in some of the rice growing regions as well as the availability of additional labor and irrigation water. The higher price was another incentive.
3.25   Nationwide the proportion of farmers who grew the crop remained almost unchanged.
        INDUSTRIAL CROPS
3.26   Cotton was, is still and will', in the future, continue to      be a most
       important industrial' crop. Fewer and fewer farmers are now growing cotton. It may be assumed that there was increase in yield in the government-held areas.
3.27   In the areas outside government control the fall in the number of farmers
       growing the crop and, the area under cotton may be due to      increasing
       demand for and price of labor and to low prices for cotton.
3.28   Sugar cane was grown only in Nangarhar and Laghman. Average area under
       the crop was very small. ,
       • *
3.29   Sugar-beet was grown in Baghlan province to supply a sugar mill operating there. Now rice has replaced sugar beet production.
       POTATOES
3.30   There has been no discernable change between 1989 and 1990.    Cultivated
       areas averaged around 2 jeribs. Yield in 1990 was the lowest for all years of the survey.
3.31   In 1990 there was increase in potato production in Ghor.
       FORAGE CROPS
3.32   Alfalfa (Lucerness) and clover are the mairirforage crops. There, has been
In 1990 the proportion of farmers growing the crop was roughly the same as in 1989.
RICE                                                    .
With few exceptions rice is mainly grown in the small irrigated farm sector.
                                                                /
There were no dramatic falls in the provincial average yields of rice. In most of the rice growing provinces yields were between 30 and 70 seers/jerib.
                                            27
 JULY
 3.33
 3.34
 3.35
 3.36
 3.37
 3.38
 3.39
 3.40
 3.41
 3.42
 3.43
 3.44
 3.45
SEPTEMBER, 1992                     AFGHANJIH/lfl                           VOL.   5   NO.  4
little change since 1989.
The average area of almost 2 jeribs under clover was the same as under alfalfa. Overall clover production was similar in 1989 and 1990.
Vetch as, a*minor fadder crop is grown in some provinces, at ari average of 2 jeribs. There was a general increase over previous years.
PULSES
The average area in the main pulses growing provinces under the crops is
3.7  jeribs per farmer which is relatively large. This has remained unchanged over the last three years.
Mung beans are twice as important as other beans and are grown in drier irrigated areas of the country. There are substitutes for maize and rice in yeers when irrigation water is in short supply.                ,
Pulses are substitute for meat of which there is acute shortage in the country.
VEGETABLES
A typical average area under vegetables is one jerib. Vegetables are grown in smaller areas for family use with occasional surpluses sold. Vegetables are generally grown in the. vicinity of population centers which are controlled by the Kabul government.
Onions, tomatoes, potatoes, carrots and cucumbers are often cultivated on a larger scale as a cash crop. The highest onion yields were recorded in Ghazni at 615 seers/jerib.
In 1990 Herat, Faryab and Balkh were important tomato, growing provinces.
Cucumber, is grown mainly in Kandahar and to lesser extent in Herat and Laghman provinces. ■
FRUIT CROPS
In general the figures for the proportion of farmers who grew fruit trees and the average area were roughly the same in 1990 a^ in previous years.
There was high average area under fruit trees in 1990 in^Herat followed by Urozgan, Badghis and Balkh.
There was dramatic increase in apple growing in 1990 in Herat, perhaps due to large scale distribution ,of apple saplings under UN program.
Almonds are grown mainly in Zabul, Urozgan and Parwan provinces. Kunduz and Helmand are other leading almond-growing provinces.
Apricots are grown mainly in the areas where almonds are grown.
                                          28
 JULY-
 3.46
 3.47
 3.48
 3.49 '
 3.50
 3.51
 3.52
 3.53
 4.1
 4.2
 4.3
 4.4
 4.5
 4.6
SEPTEMBER * 1992        AffillAN                          VOL . 5 NO. 4
  Pomegranate was mainly used by the Kandahar canning factory which is in government controlled area.
     ,  .    •  '          ■                   ' ' . t            \
 Grapes are grown in 18 provinces. The proportion of farmers growing the
 crop declined in 1990.
              • ; \
 Melon is an important cash crop throughout the country. The number of farmers growing the crop in 1990 dropped particularly in Northern provinces.
              ' * : \
 Water melon is less important than melon. The crop was not recorded in
 the 1990 survey.
 OILSEED CROPS
 Linseed is still an important crop in the North and North-East zones. Average yields were down by a quarter in 1990 compared to 1989.
 Mustard is a minor oil seed crop grown by 2% to 3% of farmers.
  MISCELLANEOUS CROPS
 Cumin seed seems to be becoming more common in the South-West and North-West.
 Tobacco is not an important crop. It is grown only in Herat, Kandahar and Logar provinces.                          v
                               4.  LIVESTOCK
• • /
 The overall 1990 situation does not show any sign of improvement for livestock ownership and distribution.
 SHEEP AND GOATS
  In nine provinces average flock sizes have increased over the three years. In Badghis there was large decrease, perhaps because of prolonged cold weather.
 ■ ■ ■  ■                    ...                    i-      .        ■ .
  Flock size in Kunduz doubled because,of relative peace there. But there was no change in size of flocks of small owriers.
  Just over' 3% of farmers, mostly in Badghis, owned flocks of oyer 150 heads. .
  CATTLE '
  There was no significant change in the average number of cows and calves. Oxen are not included in this section.
  Most of the farmers owned 3 to 6 cows and calves. The national percentage of farmers owning cows and calves ranges from 70% to 90%.
                                           29
JULY
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10
4.11 5.1
 5.2
 5.3
 5.4
 5.5
 5.6
 5.7
    SEPTEMBER. 1992                  AfHJH                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
     DONKEYS AND HORSES
     In 1.990 most of*the farmers questioned had one or two donkeys. In 1990 as in 1989 there were sevan provinces in which more than one third of farmers owned two donkeys.
     J
     Unlike donkeys, not all farmers own horses. In Ghor and Kunduz provinces with the highest horse ownership 50% to 70% farmers own, at an average, one or two horses.
     In no province have large herds of horses been recorded.
     Compared to 1989 the proportion of farmers owning horses stayed roughly constant.
     CAMELS
     As in 1989, camels were recorded in 12 provinces in the. 1990 survey.
                                   5- FARM POWER
     The proportion Of farmers using their own oxen has increased. At the same time the proportion of farmers owning tractors has increased from a national average of 2.5% in 1988 to 7% in 1990. The proportion of farmers hiring tractors has also increased considerably.
     USE AND OWNERSHIP OF OXEN
     In all provinces the average number of oxen per farmer has increased. In only six provinces the proportion of farmers who own oxen have increased, but in other provinces it has decreased. Nationally the proportion of farmers owning two oxen has increased and the proportion of farmers owning no oxen-has also increased.
     It appears that better use is being made of existing oxen.
     It is now possible to state that a major watershed has been crossed in the overall decline of oxen. •
     USE OF TRACTORS
       . I
     The proportion of farmers owning tractors has doubled during the past two years. The proportion of those hiring tractors has increased by 60%.
     The high price of live animals makes it difficult for the small farmers to buy oxen. On the other hand faster and timely cultivations, as a 'result of the use of tractors, is a real advantage.
     The best option now from the development point of view is to encourage the availability of tractor service so as to be as efficient and cheep as in Pakistan.
                                          30
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992      flfGIIHH Jflflfl             VOL . 5 NO. 4
      CONCLUSION ON FARM POWER
5.8 The tractor area can be split into three categories:
High Tractor/ High Oxen
High Tractor/       Comparatively           few Tractors/
Pew Oxen                     Plus Oxen
Baghlan
Takhar
Kunduz
Balkh
Helmand
Kandahar
Paktika
Ghazni
Paktia
Logar
Wardak
Zabul
Farah
                                           6. FERTILIZER
6.1    The amount of white fertilizer used, in irrigated wheat areas remained stable. The situation is as bad as it has ever been and there is no sign of improvement.
 7               •                    •            .
6.2    Taking all crops and the proportion of farmers using fertilizer, there was an improvement in all zones in 1990 compared to 1989.
6.3    More farmers use white fertilizer alone than use white and grey together. In 1990 grey fertilizer was scarce while white fertilizer was relatively plentiful.
       The amount of grey fertilizer, on a national average basis, remained
       stable.                                                        '
                                                 ■
       In 1990 and 1989 the average farmer used twice as much white fertilizer as grey.
       The use of only white fertilizer was highest in Herat while it was high also in Laghman, Logar, Kapisa and Parwan.
6.7    The use of fertilizer was least in Jauzjart, Ghor, Samangan, Badghis, Faryab, Kunar, Zabul and Paktika.
6.8    Prices varied enormously between provinces, mainly on the basis of distance from source of supply.
       The mujaheddin captured some towns where fertilizer was stored, and sold it to local farmers at deflated prices.
       Nationally a large prqportion of farmers used white fertilizer alone on rice than those who used it alone on irrigated wheat.
6.11 The use of fertilizer for barley is less common than for wheat or rice.
6.9
6.1,0
 6.4
 6.5
 6.6
31
I
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            IlfflllJlN Jdlflfl               VOL.  5  NO.  4
                                         ~j . SEED
 7.1    The number of farmers in different provinces who claim to have used improved irrigated wheat varies from 90% to just a few. Very little improved irrigated seed was used in the provinces where wheat crop is very important.
 7.2    There is lack of demand for improved seed in some of the provinces due to unawarness of its importance.
 7.3    Improved rainfed seed was also used in some of                   the provinces..
 7.4    Yield of maize more than doubled in some provinces  due to use of improved
        seed.
                                    8 . FOOD SHORTAGE
 8.1    In 14 provinces no food shortage was reported.
 8.2    The North experienced severe to  moderate food shortage due to pests  and
        locust.
     / ' '                                            ' . ' ■
 8.3    Bagdhis and Ghor in the North-West showed slight food shortages.
 8.4    The provinces are divided according to food situation in 1990 in t^he four following categories:
No food shortage Light    Moderate    Severe 
Baghlan          Parwan   Badakhshan Jauzjan 
Takhar           Wardak   Bamian     Balkh   
Kunduz           Kapisa   Samangan           
Paktika          Ghazni                      
Nangarhar        Kandahar 1                  
Laghman          Gho                         
Kunar            Ba i s                      
        Logar
        Zabul
        Paktia
        Helmand
        Urozgan
        Herat
        Farah                                        -
 8.5    Not all districts showed the same intensity of food shortage. They showed large variations within the same province.
[
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
THE CCAR SEVENTH SEMINAR
COMPENSATION OF EDUCATIONAL DEFICIENCIES IN THE ISLAMIC COMMUNITY OF AFGHANISTAN

 EDITOR'S NOTE: In the following pages you will be able to read a summary of the articles and discussions related to the CCAR 7th seminar (Seeking Ways and Means for Educational Deficiencies of the Past)» held in Islamabad 11-14 May•          1992. Names and
 particulars of the participants will appear at the end of the passage.                            >
I
           INAUGURAL SPEECHES IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE MOST MERCIFUL, THE MOST BENEFICIENT
 1. PROFESSOR FAZEL:                                . N
                  Our present seminar is. entitled, "Ways and Means for updating the standard of Education in the Islamic Society of Afghanistan". God willing, it will help, to a great extent, in spotlighting the deficiencies of the educational system for our younger generation. Although defects may be removed in a shorter time but a dislocated educational system cannot be put back on the right track expeditiously. We cannot re-acquire those teachers, professors, religious scholars and spiritual leaders who were educated and trained in Afghanistan. It may    take decades and centuries to   acquire such scholars and
 intellectuals or to   attain the pre-war standard.     Our society  has suffered
 tremendous upheavals and devastations. It is hoped that in the same way as the valiant sons of this soil drove out the Russians from our homeland, they can revive their Islamic   arts and the prevalent modes   of knowledge, particularly
 those branches of knowledge which rmay. be helpful for the future, which may bridge the gap between the two generations and which may prepare us to lead a prosperous life in this world and to follow our religious principles in a proper ■way.'
      Dear brothers, we should be careful "that the Islamic government may not suffer any harm or     any disintegration. The Islamic government is a great
 blessing of God Almighty and is not divisible. It can be achieved only by a firm belief in Allah and concerted efforts. In order to reach our cherished goals, we
33
 JULY-SEPTEMBER , 1992           HffilMN J[HIM                     VOL - 5 no. 4
 should pers'ist in our struggle to pass the test of time and be prepared for  all
 sorts of sacrifices. It requires all-out action. For this purpose, we stand in need of knowledgeable and experienced persons. We should assign a task to someone who is qualified for the job and“ try to find qualified persons for the jobs ahead. We should not create jobs for the people, but should employ those who are qualified to perform the required job. Only in this manner can we achieve our objects and    the valiant   Afghan     nation can enjoy the fruits of
 justice and fairplay.
      It is hoped that we all get united and shun all kinds of dissentions. The most important factor is unity among the mujaheddin. If we ire deprived of unity and harmony, Afghanistan may, God forbid, face extensive bloodshed. It is imperative that peace and security should prevail in the country and we should take advantage of proper education so that we may be able to heal our wounds.
      We ought to ponder   over   our 14  years of sufferings, to which we were
 exposed by an infidel communist rule under various pretexts, and find a remedy for it. On the one hand they brought down the educational standard of our children and on the other, implanted infidelity and communist ideas in the minds of our youth.
      Education, which starts from the lap of mother and family circle to the level of school and mosque and ultimately to our environment and society, teaches us the norms of leading a good life and guides us in our individual and collective relationship within the society as well as in regard with a society's relationship with other societies. Thus a man becomes a mature and useful member of the society and attains a position of significance. Knowledge of social sciences, ethics, theology and technology prepares us for an honorable, dignified and prosperous- life and teaches us love and respect for the rights of others and the need for coexistance, so that we may perform our individual and collective duties as useful members of a human and! Islamic society and desist from violating each others' rights.
 2.   MAWLAWI MAHMOOD DARASWAL:
      Mr. Chairman, Respectable Professors, dear Scholars and very dear guests. Assalam-o-Alaikum.
      It is a matter of honor and gratitude that the Institute of Afghan Policy Studies (IAPS) has organized this seventh in the series of seminars, with the cooperation of our intellectuals and academicians. Moreover, it is an occasion of great honor and happiness for all of us that whereas the previous^ six seminars were held under the title, of "An Islamic Afghanistan, Tomorrow", the present seminar is held, by the grace of God, under the title of "The Is-lamic Afghanistan, Todays". Thus our "Tomorrow's Afghanistan" has changed into "Today's Afghanistan" for which we waited impatiently for many long years.
      Our Muslim and combatant people have proved their courage, ability and heroism in the battlefield of jehad, to the entire world and defended Islam and the country's independence in a praiseworthy manner. Now they have to give a
                                            34
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992               HffillflHJfHllfl                VOL. 5 NO. 4
 proof of their efficiency and capability in the political ,arena, too. Particularly we expect our respectable jehadic leaders to act wisely and maturely by completely giving up their personal bickerings and party differences and joining hands in unison. They should not allow our enemies to ignite racial, regional or lingual discriminations in our society and fan the fire of dissent, otherwise God forbid/', our prideful victory in the Holy War and all our. relentless struggles during the last 14 years may go down the drain.
      As you are aware, the purpose behind the establishment of the (IAPS) within the framework of .the CCAR and holding of a series of seminars, was to help establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan representing the popular will and determination so that our Muslim nation may not find themselves in a vacuum. Through these seminars the talented, experienced and seasoned Afghan scholars and intellectuals present thteir ideas and writings based on their studies and research work in various subjects so that our people be mentally prepared to introduce an Islamic system Commensurate with the exigencies of time in the light of the exalted Islamic guidelines. In the meantime, if the Afghan authorities may deam fit, they can easily take advantage of the views and valuable opinion of their own intellectuals.
      Dear Scholars and Professors,
      As you know, earlier our third seminar was held under the title of "Education in the Future Afghan Society" and its contents were published in the book form. However, in view Of the significance of .the subject of healthy education which is the foundation of all moral, material, social, ethical and political achievements of the society and especially under the present circumstances when Islamic education is of prime importance in today's Afghanistan, this seminar is devoted to a comprehensive study of this subject.
      It is hoped that through the scholarly articles written by our esteemed intelligentsia and the vlry useful opinions expressed by them during the four day sessions on this topic would prove a noteworthy contribution to the betterment of the upcoming generation of the anguished and oppressed Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
                                              ARTICLES
      OBJECTS OF EDUCATION IN THE ISLAMIC SOCIETY OF AFGHANISTAN:
 BY PROFESSOR FAZEL:
      The first remedy for the malady of lack of Islamic education that comes into mind, is the determination of the objects of Islamic learning. Every human move or movement is aimed towards reaching a certain goal. ,Hence in order to chalk out a plan for Islamic education and to take steps for recompensating its losses and removing the lacunae, it is necessary in the beginning to determine its aims and objects and to pave the ground for the implementation of the future plan. We desire that the residents of the Islamic state of Afghanistan should be
                                          35
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992        AlllllAN liiHAII               VOL. 5 NO. 4
 brought up as honest, human, patriotic, nationalist and truly Muslim persons possessing a vital’ and stable profession. The plan should be interlinked with the present and future life of the society so that the losses suffered during the big upheayel of the past 14 years may be recovered and recompensated - In short, the aims and objects of education in the Islamic state of Afghanistan may be summarized as under:
 1. BASIC AIMS:      2.   GENERAL AIMS:    3. SPECIAL AIMS.
 I.   BASIC AIMS OF EDUCATION.
 1.   Godliness, piety, firm belief in the Oneness of God, observing the basic tenets of Islam and faith in the imperceptible.
      Unity and Solidarity:     Islamic    brotherhood  among, all Muslim brethren,
      particularly amongst our Mujahed brothers and observance of the Holy
                                            .                  I.    * '
      Prophet's Shariat (Islamic Code of Laws) and following the principles of the Hanafi sect.                   '
 2.
 3.
 II.  GENERAL AIMS OF EDUCATION.
                                                       *
 1.   Selection of healthy and positive thought and action. God Almighty has created man, master of his own actions. There is nO■compulsion in adopting the religion of Islam and we should accept and adopt it with complete freedom, voluntarily, by our own choice and after due assessment and
    , ponderance.
 2.   Sense of Responsibility: Education not only develops our mental faculty but also inculcates a sense of responsibility in us to the maximum extent.
 3.   Development of Language for Logical Argumentation:    Difference  between man
     and animal, basically lies in the ability to speak and argue logically. Therefore, development of language and literature is one of the main objects of academic process. However the art of language teaching has different stages. The first stage is that of listening and understanding. The second stage is that of responding correctly and logically. .Finally the student learns to write which is very important because it is through writings that the younger generations learn about the knowledge and culture of their predecessors and the nations of .the world take advantage of each other's knowledge and experience.
Respect for human dignity and adherence to moral principles.                V
Observance of our national and cultural traditions not repugnant to the teachings of Islam e.g. hospitality, protection of one's honor, individual and collective freedom and respect for the territorial integrity of Afghanistan.
                                            36
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992            AO'lllAN JfHflll               VOL. 5 NO. 4
 III. SPEICAL AIMS.
      To learn contemporary art, science and technology within the framework of the country's cultural and religious principles. Hence at the primary school level emphasis is laid bn the point that the primary class students, besides learning general religious precepts, ethics, reading, writing, arithmatic and acquainting themselves with the mysteries of life, should be developed mentally, physically, spiritually and socially too.
                  ACADEMIC SYLLABUS DURING THE FOURTEEN YEARS OF JEHAD:
  BY ABDUL AHAD AMOZGAR.
      Since the day the communist system was enforced in Afghanistan, our Muslim people were aroused in the light of their physical, mental and conscious powers to declare a holy war against falsehood. Our scholars and intellectuals were, on the one hand, up in arms against the enemy and on the other hand by inviting people to goodness and compiling jehadic syllabus guided the jehad movement on the path of victory. It must be said that this syllabus usually encompassed the requirements of the contemporary age, keeping in view the following notio'rts:-
 1. ACQUAINTANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF SHARIAT.
      The school text books mostly contain matters related to the Code of Islamic Laws. ‘This is considered an essential requirement in an Islamic country.
 2.   ENCOURAGEMENT
      The school text books contain motivating matter, according to the Quranic teachings, to encourage the Muslim youth to intensify the Holy War against the communists.                              >.
 3.   JEHAD MOTIVATED SUBJECTS
      Besides aligning all the subjects to the spirit of jehad, a separate subject called "Jehadic Training" was also evolved and taught to the students. It covered sufficient information regarding different kinds of weapons and their proper usage so that the youth might be well-prepared for taking part in the jehad.
 4.   ADJUSTMENT OF JEHADIC SYLLABUS                            r
      In view of the fact that a number pf professional teachers were martyred and some of them left the country to migrate to other countries whereas some other professional teachers assumed       jehad leadership responsibilities,
 therefore, the compilation of educational syllabus was entrusted to those who had no training in this line. This is indeed a main problem in connection with the healthy education of our children. Therefore, the relevant departments are focusing their attention on this issue to adopt a methodical approach and as such the process is continuing.
37
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              HflillMIJflflll                VOL. 5 NO. 4
      To ensure an active role for positive education in the reconstruction of the country, here are some suggestions, for consideration.
      It may be kept in mind that for compiling a syllabus, the following principles play a basic role:
 1.   Appreciation of public opinion regarding education of their children.
                       ■ i                     '
 2.   Analysis of moral, social and national values.                        - ,
 3.   Analysis of environmental and social problems.
 4; Analysis of health problems.
 5.   Cognizance of a student and comprehensive understanding of his talent is one of the basic and important tenets of education because the real purpose is the upbringing of students. Hence the main aim in the educational process is the character-building aspect of the student. In the absence of such a comprehension, compiling an academic syllabus would be a waste of time .
 6.   Expertise in drafting text-books: Compilation of text books for students is
      not an easy and simple job and should not be done haphazardly. For writing text-books, besides knowledge of pedagogy, expertise in drafting text-books is also considered a basic and important principle in the healthy education of children.                                   “
                                           DISCUSSIONS
 MOHAMMAD ALAM FAIZZAD: Prof. Pazel emphasized that learning of the Arabic language was a necessity for the students. In my opinion We should teach different languages and every ethnic group should learn its own local dialect as well as every nation ought to learn its national language. Simultaneously it is essential that some of the f o, ,gn. languages should be learnt thoroughly -enabling the student to pursue higher studies in a foreign language. But we cannot accept Arabic language as one of the languages that must be learned. However, so far as theology is concerned we should get acquainted with this language.
 PROFESSOR FAZEL:  In the preface to the issue of languages it is written that
 language is a means of communication. Besides, the more we know a language, the more we will be able to get further acquainted with the culture of the people who speak that particular language. As we are Muslims and Arabic is the language of the Holy Quran, the more we know this language, the more we can appreciate and comprehend the meaning of the Quranic verses.
 MAWLAWI NAFEY:  As every Muslim is obliged to learn the Holy Quran which is in
 Arabic. Therefore, if the learning of Arabic language is considered one of our necessities, it would be very useful.
 FAZLUM MINALLAH FAZLI:   Mr. Amozgar has expertly analysed the compilation of
                                               38
       X
 JUI Y-SEPTEMBER. 1992              ftlUllflllJHlflll               VOL. 5 flp. 4
 academic syllabus. But I should like to ask why has he not written anything about the correlation of religion with natural sciences? In my view if scientific subjects be taught purely in a technical manner v/ibhout highlighting their 'relationship with faith, the result would be nothing but confusion. The reason being that most of the materialists are scientists who have lost the track through natural sciences.
 ABDUL AHAD AMOZGAR:   In this  connection we have taken some decisions and, God
 willing, we will try to give them a practical shape. As you are aware that syllabi are generally of two kinds; one is subject-wise and the other is focal. In the focal syllabus, we bring into focus, the religious belief and teach science, history, geography and othe£ subjects in the light of religion.
 MOlilSEF: Mr. Amozgar said that education is Ma $psired change in behavior" and
 has added matter also to this description. If this be the description of education then' what would be the description of upbringing and character building? For example, while teaching the subject of Home Economics we remind the students that when they cook a ’meal, they should not over-fry the onions because it would make the food unhealthy. After the student understands this principle, in fact a, desired change in his attitude has taken place. But this is not character-building and moral training. Actually training means the social heritage' which has reached us through ancient languages and past experiences keeping in view the present activities .and the future forecasts and we, on our part, would pass it on to our coming generations.
 PROF. FAZEL:  It   is a fact that education is a desired change in behavior and
 moral training is transfer of inborn knowledge from the predecessors to the successors. This process contains past experiences. But two other points should also be taken into consideration i.e. when we transfer knowledge from the predecessor to the successor, we should take notice of the present condition- as well as foresee the future. Similarly when we transliterate the past material and contents of former knowledge for the benefit of the present generation, we should be mindful of the fact that in view of the existing conditions and future developments some changes and alterations would take place. Only in this manner shall we be able to attain the desired result.
                                               ARTICLES
                                MODES OF ISLAMIC CHARACTEROLOGY:
 BY ASADULLAH SHINWARI
      Islam is a rational religion very close to human nature, shunning isolation, monasticism, losing oneself in metaphysical philosophy and getting away from the people. Islam does not discriminate between human beings as high and low, as some other religions do even at present. Islam is a way of thinking about the life of man and has an independent and distinct belief regarding life, world, origin of life and the Day of Resurrection.
      Islamic characterology is constantly in search of finding human identity,
                                          39
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992                Atl'lllJIflJ[HAO                 VOL.   5 NO. 4
 the divine purpose behind creation and the human destiny in the hereafter. God has created man as his vicegerent on parth and in the words of the Holy Quran:
 1.   "I have created the jinn and humankind only1 that they might worships Me." (Surah Adh-Dhariyat, Verse:56)
 2. "So set thy purpose (O' Mohammad) for religion as a man by nature upright -the, nature (framed) of Allah; in which He hath created man. There is no altering (the laws of) Allah's creation. That is the right religion, but most men know not." (Surah Al-Rome, Verse:         30).
 3.   "And there may spring from you a nation who invite to goodness and enjoin right conduct and forbid indecency. Such are they who are successful." (Surah Ale-Imran, Verse: 104).
 4.   "Verily We have honored the children of Adam. We carry them on the land and the sea and l^ave made provision of good things for them and have preferred them above many of those whom we created with a marked preferment." (Surah
    -Al-Isra, Verse: 70).
 \5.  "O' mankind. We have created you male and female and have made you .nations
     and tribes that ye may know one another. The noblest of you, in the sight of Allah, is the most virtuous of you. Allah is knower, Aware." (Surah Al-Hujurat, Verse: 13).
       Islam is the only religion that invites the faithful to reflect and ponder over the worldly existence, human society and history so that they may be able to discern the process of divine will and by meditating and recognizing the Oneness and divine power of God Almighty, perceive the majesty of the Creator, because only the wise fear God.
     ... "The erudite among his bondsmen fear Allah alone..." (Surah Al-Fatar, Verse: 28).
       The philosophy of Islamic ^racterology can be comprehended from the very first verse of the Holy Quran:
     "Read, in the name of thy Lord who createth." (Surah Al-Alaq, Verse: 1).
       Reading and learning for the sake of Allah and for seeking divine pleasure is a characteristic of Islamic training which distinguishes it from other old and new modes of training. In this way the inborn and instinctive inclination towards faith are activated through encouragement, attraction, awe and Godfearing guidance, leading to the reinforcement of religious belief.
       Islamic character-building procedure does not polish and purify the psyche only, but the physical and rational aspects of man top and in this connection follows the undermentioned lines:
 1. Invites man to meditate and lays great, emphasis on reason and self-criticism.
                                          40
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGIIANJ[HAfl.            VOL. 5 NO. 4
  2.  Invites people towards rational behavior and expects them to avoid blind imitation. It pities the condition of those who blindly follow the line of their ancestors. It condemns neglect of reasoning and assails fossilization. It encourages the followers of Islam to use their reasoning faculty to discover the.universal laws and social traditions.
  3.  Islam invites people to logical and scientific thinking and forbids them to obey the sensual demands.
  4.  Islam invites one to prefer general interests over individual interests, beqause social thinking is better than individual thinking.
       Islamic characterology puts into practicer a number of guidelines foi? developing perfect human personality, as under:
  1.  FOLLOWING THE LINES OF A ^GOOD AND PIOUS LEADER.
       If a leader's mind is surfeit with multifarious values and standards but . does not put it into practice and suffers from contradiction in his words and deeds, it would be futile to follow hm Therefore choosing an upright and pioys leader and following his line is of utmost importance.
  2.  REWARD AND PUNISHMENT*
       In order to inculcate rational and psychological discipline in Muslim students, Islam takes advantage of the policy of reward and punishment too,, because the process of inspiring the fear of God and meanwhile encouraging students to do good and ayoid evil is commensurate with human nature in every society and in every era.
  3.  GUIDANCE AND ADVANTAGEOUS ADVICE.
       Man is by nature impressionable and flexible. If he is repeatedly guided and advised properly in such a manner that he is mentally convinced then this advice and guidance leaves a deep impression on his mind and in due course of time becomes his second nature.
  4.  ANECDOTES.
       Narration of anecdotes is one of the most successful ways of moral training. Narratives and allegories appeal to the- mind of the listener in a strange manner and the listener or the student, while enjoying the story,
 . imbibes its good and beneficial/points which help in moulding his personality
  i.n the right shape*
  5.  GOOD AND LIKEABLE HABITS.
                                       j
     ' Inculcation Of good habits has recently been termed by one of the characterology schools of thought as "group dynamics" whereas Islam had visualized it fourteen centuries ago and accordingly devoted its attention to eradicate bad habits and customs prevalent in.the society.
                                               41
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
                                                                               VOL- 5 NO- 4
6. DIALOGUE AND DISCUSSION.
      The modern pedagogy makes use of dialogue and discussion or indoctrination and lecture or both     in the class-room. The  educationists have come to   the
 conclusion that the mode of dialogue and discussion is better than lecture and indoctrination among limited groups like class-rooms. The Holy Prophet (PBUH) availed both methods    according to the   requirement  of time.    Dialogue and
 discussion served two purposes, (a) proper guidance in theology to the revered companions which led    to the appointment  of Hazrat  Ma'az  bin   Jabal to the
 prgvince of Yemen and (b) logical deduction regarding issues not explained by divine revelation    or Quranic text,   as  in the   case  of   selecting the
 battlefield of Badr for the Battle of the same name.
     There are other methods of character-building too, availed by the Islamic scholars for the welfare of the younger generation. Here it may be mentione" that the process of education and moral training is obligatory. like other Islamic commands because the jurisprudents have said that any necessary action without which proper performance of religious duties is not possible, becomes obligatory to a Muslim. Thus it is the duty of a government to educate the people, to produce such scholars and teachers who may prepare a generation to shoulder the social and administrative responsibilities in the country.
    ISLAMIC INTELLECT AND THE ROLE OF EDUCATION IN DEVELOPING THE INTELLECT '
 BY: FAZLUM MINALLAH FAZLI
     Thanks be to God Almighty, the most Beneficient and the most Merciful and blessings upon the Holy Prophet and his progeny and companions.
     Intellect, in the broader sense qf the word, includes belief, way of thinking and personal judgement. Islamic intellect, in short, means Islamic belief and thought so that a Muslim may not transgress the bounds of Islam.
     The main and basic aim of Islam is not only reformation of human behavior but also reforming the thought process and intellect, of man, so much.so that a man's deeds are gauged and assessed by his intentions.
                                    EVOLVING ISLAMIC INTELLECT
     When we talk about Islamic intellect and its necessity, we should not forget that unless it can influence the society, it cannot fulfil the Islamic objectives. Actually Islam has a mission to reform the society and to clean out the social structure of all the defects violating the sanctity and dignity of man and guarding it against all the acts forbidden by God. Hence Islamic thought in itself is not sufficient to attain the goals set by it unless it. is absorbed by the conscience of man in such a manner that man acts accordingly.
                   CO-RELATION OF ISLAMIC THOUGHT WITH INNER CLEANLINESS
     Islamic thought and purity of the inner self are so close to each other
42
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGHANJ(KAI)              VOL. 5 NO. 4
 that they are not only regarded complementary to each other but also look like one and the same thing. The reason being that Islam lays great emphasis on inner purity, because Allah says, "Whoever purifies his inner self, is bestowed with salvation."
      In the context of Islamic prayers, intention is essential because it is a symbol of inner purification. If inner self be devoid of purity, then the outer and visible deeds are of no value in the eyes of God. Faith, being the foundation of the good deed, is a phenomenon of the purity of inner self.
      Our educational system during the past few decades has been generally on the decline but our religious education has suffered much more. It was not a coincidence but a result of pre-planned scheme of things implemented gradually till the sinister Saur (April) coup, which was the culmination point of this scheme. By this time religious education was completely uprooted and talking in terms of religion and theology was considered a crime liable to punishment.
      Let us see what should he the contribution of education as an important organ of the .Islamic government of Afghanistan. In order to protect the Islamic thought from the subsequent corruptions, which will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the minds of the younger generation, the following measures are recommended:
 1.  Basic qualitative and quantitative changes in the text-books of religious and other general academic institutions.
 2.  Selection of qualified and efficient scholars devoted to Islam and well-versed in theology.
 3.  Strict vigilance in regard to the implementation of the academic syllabi.
                         • «
 4.  Establishment of vast cultural centers for comprehensive activities in this field as extra-curricular activities for the students.
 5.  Elimination of anti-Islamic philosophy and ideology from the syllabus for pre-university level education. But in case this syllabus is retained for higher level studies for the purpose of comparison or comparative study, then its correct and logical analysis with relevant commentary should be made a pre-requisite.
      The above arguments fall in the category of fundamental measures. Yet another noteworthy point is that by Islamic education we do not mean only teaching of belief and mode of prayers but also providing guidance for leading one's life in this world and for salvation in the world to come as well as giving due consideration to man's physical and spiritual needs.
                                                       43
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         HANJfHIlfl                VOL.  5 NO. 4
                                           DISCUSSIONS
 MAWLAWI NAFEY: Mr. Shinwari while referring to the pattern of anecdotes in the context of religious scriptures, did not take into consideration the respective period of the apostles. For example, Noah who comes, after Adam, in the order of. prophethood, has been mentioned in the middle, whereas Jesus has been mentioned before the advent of Noah and so on. I think that it would be better to observe the order of time and period.
 SHINWARI: I would like to state that the Holy Quran is not a collection of
 anecdotes and the anecdotes narrated in the Quran have an . allegorical significance and hence their historic evolution has not been taken into consideration. However, divine wisdom is much higher than our wordly wisdom.
 HUSSAINKHAIL: Mr. Fazli. has referred to Russification plans in a section of his article. In this connection I would like to state that the aim of the communist regime in Afghanistan was implementing the Russification plan not only in the schools  and colleges but also in  the entire academic institutions and all the
 offices  and departments   of the country and the whole gamut   of our   social
 structure.
      Then he has stated that philosophy should not be taught in the schools but, in my opinion, at the university level. Philosophy should not be taught as a subject because philosophy has no place in Islam and the Ulama have separated philosophy from Islam. Although logical argumentation does exist in Islam but not to the extent that was prevalent among the greek philosophers.
 FAZLI: As regards Russification I must say that my object was only education. But if we may intend to cover all the aspects of this scheme, it would not be possible to do so during the limited time allotted for this seminar.
           t
      Irj connection with teaching philosophy, I have mentioned  in my   article
 that philosophy without   logical argumentation should not be   taught   in the
 pre-university level. For example if Darwinian theory is taught in the secondary level and is not rejected with convincing arguments, it may mislead the students. Therefore, the Darwinian theory may be taught as a comparative study in the light of Islamic teachings so that the student may know that Darwin was a fallacious philosopher.
                                            ARTICLES
                    EDUCATION AFTER THE SCHOOL-GOING AGE BY - QUTBUDDIN NAJMI
                   Let us cast a glance/at the literacy level of the Afghan youth and children who have spent their childhood or adolescence under the shadow of terror and
                                                      44
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         MfSIUMfJ[H/lfl            VOL. 5 NO. 4
 fear of war in the country. The generation that was at the stage of childhood in 1978 has now reached the age of 14 to 27 years. Those children and adults who reached the age of 27 passing through the first four stages of their lives under the conditions of jehad, may be divided in the following groups:
 1) u Some of them went to the war-front after attaining the age of 12 and were
      martyred.
 2)   Some of them survived and «are still active on the front as mujaheddin.
 3)   A number of them have been crippled and have migrated abroad or settled down.
 4)   A certain number of these mujaheddin, after a couple of years of active guerrilla service, have left for Iran,-Pakistan or distant countries.
      Those youngman who stayed behind as mujaheddin, joined the literacy classes arranged by the regional commanders to learn reading and writing and theology during free hours. In some of the regions primary.schools have been established eversince 1987. But in some other regions conditions were not that favorable and hence the young mujaheddin in that area have remained deprived of the benefits of education.
      Those who migrated to Iran and Pakistan, some of them joined religious institutions, schools, health institutes, professional and technical courses. Some others could not do so due to certain limitations and had to perform odd jobs to earn their living.
      Thus we come to the conclusion that a number of youngmen who have passed the school-age and are living in the mujaheddin controlled areas or in Pakistan and Iran, are deprived of the blessings of education. ,
      As these oppressed youth have passed certain sensitive phases of their lives in abnormal circumstances and under great hardships, now that an Islamic system has come into power in Afghanistan, following measures may be taken to cater to their academic needs:
 1)   After the return of the refugees to Afghanistan, the Education Ministry of the Islamic government of Afghanistan should conduct a survey of the un-educated youth throughout the country by taking into consideration their age, inclination towards profes^ional/non-professional subjects, and professions prevalent in each particular region as well as the local dialect.
 2)   Number of students according to their age group and study groups.
 3)   Subsequent to the completion of the survey and collection of the above
      information, general and special educational syllabi may be compiled on the following lines:                                                       «
      (a) Primary Level: Under the circumstances, the primary level syllabus may
                                                     45
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992           JlHIlfl                 VOL.  5 NO. 4
      be availed otherwise special syllabus would have to be compiled.
      (b) Secondary Level:  It consists of classes 7,8 and 9 and total study
      hours of each class in one week should be 36 hours and the total number of subjects should be 14.
          .    ■                                                            t
      (c) Higher Secondary Level: It consists of classes 10,11 and 12. The total study hours for each class should be 36 hours. Students from class 10 onwards may be divided in three groups based on the marks attained in the secondary level and the inclination of the students.
                            COMPLETE OR SUPPLEMENTARY EDUCATION:
  (i)  SNAGS IN EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM AFTER THE SAUR COUP
      Subsequent to the April 1978 coup and later the Russian invasion of Afghanistan, side by side with all the other aspects of life e.g. economic, social, scientific and cultural affairs, our educational institutions also suffered considerably. Either the mosques, schools and academic institutions were mostly devastated or were closed down due to insecurity. Similarly a large number of teachers and professors were either martyred or rushed to the war front to help their brother freedom fighters and some of them had to migrate to other countries.•In consequence, all the educational institutions in Afghanistan were deprived of professional and highly qualified and experienced staff. Besides they were faced with the scarcity of teaching material.
      In addition to these difficulties, our youth have fallen beyond the school-age to a great extent and hence cannot be admitted to intermediate or higher secondary levels.       *
      As they are the moral assets of the country, they ought to be provided with all sorts of educational facilities. It is hoped that the future educational system of the country would surely help so1 this problem. Similarly many defects exist in the teachers' training ir/otitutes, universities and other academies for higher education.
 (2)     DRAFTING  EDUCATIONAL CURRICULUM
      A curriculum is the key to all activities connected with administrative, supervisory and teaching sections guaranteeing our educational goals. Therefore, it should be prepared in accordance with special and general aims of education and in harmony with the demands of time as well as our social needs, determining the process of teaching in schools and colleges.
 (3)     RELATIONSHIP QF  EDUCATIONAL CURRICULUM WITH DIFFERENT
                   ACADEMIC CIRCLES IN THE COUNTRY
      The curriculum should cover the following:
 SOCIAL SUBJECTS: The  subjects in the text-books should be so arranged that the
                                                       46
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992                  AH JEHAD                    VOL.  5 NO.  4
 students may be able to understand the historical, geographical, economic and social problems of the country and the world at large. In the same way, they should be made aware of the valuable social, religious and historic heritage e.g. Islamic character, patriotism and love for national unity so that they may avoid racial and linguistic prejudices and discriminations and may feel inclined towards social reconstruction, ideological reinforcement, safeguard of independence and national sovereignty, performance of productive work, friendship with countrymen, abstenance from fratricide and protection of higher national interests etc.
      Character-building of a        useful and capable  citizen is  indebted  to
 educational programs encompassing the above requirements.
 RELIGIOUS SUBJECTS:  In view  of the fact that religious values and norms have
 deep-rooted influence in our daily life as Muslims and religious beliefs play a determining role in the texture of our national life, S. thorough study of religion and the Islamic values should constitute       the warp and woof of  our
 academic activities.'
 PHYSICS, SCIENCE AND MATHS:   Alongside of  theoretical subjects, practical and
 constructive skills should be accommodated in our curricula, so that the Students may be able to make        vital and practical use of their theoretical
 knowledge of natural sciences and scientific subjects like chemistry and biology. Thus the young minds will be attracted towards scientific inventions and innovations otherwise the       way the subjects of mathematics, physics  and
 science are taught at present in our schools and colleges, without encouraging a scientific outlook and practical experimentation, it would be a futile exercise. TECHNICAL AND PROFESSIONAL TEACHINGS: " In order to pave the ground for the expansion of professional learning and growth of scientific ability among the students, the new syllabus should contain technical, professional and practical knowledge for male and female students. Such a syllabus should be composed of agricultural, technical, electrical subjects, handicraft, knitting, sewing, cooking, home economics, child education, first aid training, carpentry, masonry and other useful skill,
 (4)    SOCIAL EDUCATION
      Social sciences and sociology guarantee the survival of an individual and a society and bring about prosperity and well-being for man. Education, on the whole, defends man in his struggle for existence and enables him to meet the challenges of environment. An educated human being knows how to tame the forces of nature and how to utilize it for the good of the society and his own comfort.
 (5)   SYLLABUS FOR TRAINING THE TEACHERS
      Undoubtedly, the role of a teacher in fulfilling the aims of educating a student and building up his character in a desired and likeable manner, is considered very valuable in all the academic systems. Unfortunately, owing to the Saur coup and the Russian onslaught our educational facilities alongwith our teachers’ training institutes suffered heavily. Although fortunately the jehadic
                                                                     I' •
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992             AffillANJ[HAO                 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 parties and foreign organizations have so far prepared many plans and programs for teachers' training arrangements to compensate for the losses suffered during the war and a number of teachers have, as far as possible, been employed inside Afghanistan or in the refugee camps outside the country, yet the need for professional and trained teachers is felt strongly.
      In view of the facts stated above, the country stands in dire need of regular academic courses, teachers' training colleges and long-term and short-term seminars and teachers' training workshops. The teachers' training programs should be composed of two parts i.e. one for regular and systematic education and the other for non-academic training or in other words for updating the teaching method commensurate with the exigencies of time. Hence the in-service training of teachers by refresher courses constitute the most basic requirements of training programs for the country.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 HUSSAINKHAIL:  Mr.  Formoli has stated that curriculum means a comprehsive and
 meaningful plan, in the light of which all the learning and teaching activities take place. Does he mean only the curriculum plan? If so, then what is the difference between the curriculum and the syllabus?
 FORMOLI: Curriculum generally means a comprehensive, plan for all the educational activities whereas syllabus is a by-product of the same. These activities include all administrative, supervisory and office work and sometimes even includes extra-curricular activities.
 KARYAR: The articles presented in the seminar are normally very Constructive and meaningful. But the Education Ministry in Afghanistan has to divide the students in four categories i.e.:
    Regular students;
                                                                                 4
 - Students transferred from foreign countries like Pakistan, Iran and the West;
 - Disabled students;
 - Adult students.
      I am expecting Messrs Najmi and Formoli to speak about these four categories and to present plans accordingly.
 NAJMI: All  these four categories belong to different departments. For example
 disabled or retarded students and adult or grown-up students...Therefore each of these groups fall under different categories so if we discussed these categories, we would have transgressed into the fields of other teachers concerned with these disciplines of education.
                                             48
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992              AFfilUtNJIKAU                  VOL.   5 NO.  4
 students may be able to understand the historical, geographical, economic and social problems of the country and the world at large. In the same way, they should be made aware of the valuable social, religious and historic heritage e.g. Islamic character, patriotism and love for national unity so that they may avoid racial and linguistic prejudices and discriminations and may feel inclined towards social reconstruction, ideological reinforcement, safeguard of independence and national sovereignty, performance of productive work, friendship with countrymen, abstenance from fratricide and protection of higher national interests etc.
      Character-building of a        useful and capable  citizen is  indebted  to
 educational programs encompassing the above requirements.
 RELIGIOUS SUBJECTS:  In view  of the fact that religious values and norms have
 deep-rooted influence in our daily life as Muslims and religious beliefs play a determining role in the texture of our national life, A thorough study of religion and the Islamic values should constitute       the warp and woof of  our
 academic activities.'
 PHYSICS, SCIENCE AND MATHS:   Alongside of theoretical subjects, practical and
 constructive skills should be accommodated in our curricula, so that the students may be able to make        vital and practical use of their theoretical
 knowledge of natural sciences and scientific subjects like chemistry and biology. Thus the young minds will be attracted towards scientific inventions and innovations otherwise the       way the subjects of mathematics, physics  and
 science are taught at present in our schools and colleges, without encouraging a scientific outlook and practical experimentation, it would be a futile exercise, TECHNICAL AND PROFESSIONAL TEACHINGS: In order to pave the ground for the expansion of professional learning and growth of scientific ability among the students, the new syllabus should contain technical, professional and practical knowledge for male and female students. Such a syllabus should be composed of agricultural, technical, electrical subjects, handicraft, knitting, sewing, cooking, home economics, child education, first aid training, carpentry, masonry and other useful skill ,
 (4)    SOCIAL EDUCATION
      Social sciences and sociology guarantee the survival of an individual and a society and bring about prosperity and well-being for man. Education, on the whole, defends man in his struggle for existence and enables him to meet the challenges of environment. An educated human being knows how to tame the forces of nature and how to utilize it for the good of the society and his own comfort.
 (5)   SYLLABUS FOR TRAINING THE TEACHERS
      Undoubtedly, the role of a teacher in fulfilling the aims of educating a student and building up his character in a desired and likeable manner, is considered very valuable in all the academic systems. Unfortunately, owing to the Saur coup and the Russian onslaught our educational facilities alongwith our teachers' training institutes suffered heavily. Although fortunately the jehadic
                                                 47
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             OFflllANJ[KA0                VOL- 5 NO. 4
 parties and foreign organizations have so far prepared many plans and programs for teachers.' training arrangements to compensate for the losses suffered during the war and a number of teachers have, as far as possible, been employed inside Afghanistan or in the refugee camps outside the country, yet the need for professional and trained teachers is felt strongly.
      In view of the facts stated above, the country stands in dire need of regular academic courses, teachers' training colleges and long-term and short-term seminars and teachers' training workshops. The teachers' training programs should be composed of two parts i.e. one for regular and systematic education and the other for non-academic training or in other words for updating the teaching method commensurate with the exigencies of time. Hence the in-service training of teachers by refresher courses constitute the most basic requirements of training programs for the country.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 HUSSAINKHAIL: Mr.  Formoli has stated that curriculum means a comprehsive and
 meaningful plan, in the light of which all the learning and teaching activities take place. Does he mean only the curriculum plan? If so, then what is the difference between the curriculum and the syllabus?
 FORMOLI: Curriculum generally means a comprehensive, plan for all the educational activities whereas syllabus is a by-product of the same. These activities include all administrative, supervisory and office work and sometimes evert includes extra-curricular activities.
 KARYAR: The articles presented in the seminar are normally very constructive and meaningful. But the Education Ministry in Afghanistan has to divide the students in four categories i.e.:
    Regular students;
                                                                                4
 - Students transferred from foreign countries like Pakistan, Iran and the West;
    Disabled students;
 - Adult students.
      I am expecting Messrs Najmi and Formoli to speak about these four categories and to present plans accordingly.
 NAJMI: All  these four categories belong to different departments. For example
 disabled or retarded students and adult or grown-up students...Therefore each of these groups fall under different categories so if we discussed these categories, we would have transgressed into the fields of other teachers concerned with these disciplines of education.
                                                       48
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992            IHNJtiflfl                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                           ARTICLES
    THE IMPORTANCE OF ADULT LITERACY CAMPAIGN AND ITS APPLICATION TO THE ISLAMIC SOCIETY OF AFGHANISTAN:
 BY SHAH AQA MUJADDEDI.
    , God Almighty addressed the Holy Prophet (PBUH) for the first time with the word, "Read", and this word reflects the importance of learning for Muslim men and women in order to understand and appreciate the majesty and greatness of the Supreme Creator. Reading and writing is the essential requirement of recognizing oneself and becoming aware of the Absolute Being.
      Education is not only the ability to read and write but to be completely aware of the tenets of Islam and its principal organs. In an Islamic country, education guarantees decency, honesty, good character, civilization, social responsibility and human compassion which are necessary components of a dignified personality.                         •
      As most of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan are deprived of the benefit of education, they are in dire need of literacy so that on the one hand they may be able to understand the basic philosophy of their religion and on the other perform their daily duties in an orderly manner. Besides an educated father or mother can help bring up their children as good citizens. In the early Islamic era, when someone accepted Islam, the Holy Prophet advised him to seek knowledge. There is a famous saying that 'seek knowledge from the cradle to the grave."
      When the Holy Prophet migrated from Makkah to Medina, a new vista was opened in the life of the Muslims and literacy assumed a special importance. The Holy Prophet, while discussing the terms and conditions for the prisoners of the Battle of Badr, ordered that in case any of them could not secure his release by paying a ransom, he could, if literate, teach the revered companions how to read and write instead. This is an indication of the fact that in Islam adult literacy was given primary importance and the Holy Prophet emphasized the significance of literacy in clear terms.
      In view of the fact that most of our people were forcibly deprived of even the minimum standard of reading and writing during the past fourteen years of the devastating Russian aggression, our Islamic Ministry of Education should chalk out a plan for adult literacy campaign on modern lines.
      Those persons who had to leave the country during their studies or could not continue their studies inside the country due to dislocation and war or could not pursue their studies' after migration, should benefit from the adult literacy campaign.
      In order to overcome the above-mentioned difficulties, concerted all-out
                                              49
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992             fl(HJtHAil                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
 effort by the entire nation is required. The Ministry of Education particularly has a grave responsibility to remove illiteracy from the country. It should chalk out an adult literacy program at the earliest and compile the required syllabus and implement the same effectively. Right now the professional teachers should be employed and make them go through the refresher courses to get acquainted with the modern technical aspects of the profession and seek the cooperation of religious scholars, intellectuals and spiritual leaders to promote the campaign.
     In my opinion, under the present circumstances, we should make use of the mosques and religious institutions for this purpose because in our history, mosques have been holy institutions commanding respect and confidence of the people. All the villages have mosques and people go to the mosques with good intentions and voluntarily and hence it would be convenient for them to send small girls to the mosques.
     The Islamic Army can contribute to this . campaign individually and collectively inside the army barracks. Side by side with the theoretical and
 practical and military teaching, they can introduce adult literacy program too. They can help the adults complete their discontinued studies and help those, who' can only read and write, to enhance the level of their studies. Similarly the Islamic army should update its teaching method in accordance with the principles laid down by the Education Ministry and raise the academic level of the students gradually.
     The Islamic army should be a crusading and epoch-making army and in the same way as the brave Afghan soldiers drove out the aggressive enemies from our country, they ought to root out illiteracy from the Islamic army. I hope that our mujahed army would make a valuable contribution to the adult literacy campaign.
     Government departments and labour establishments etc. can be treated as the third effective centers of literacy. The adult literacy campaign, mentioned above, should be put under an independent department in the framework of the office of the prime minister so that it may promote the campaign through mosques, religious institutions, Islamic army, labour establishments and professional departments with all the authority at its disposal throughout the country and try to spread literacy among the largest number of people in the shortest time possible.
               NEED FOR IN-SERVICE TEACHING IN THE WAR-TORN AFGHANISTAN:
 BY MONSEF
     In-service teaching in Afghanistan was initially called the Shpay Darul Mo'allameen (evening classes for teachers) and its center of activity was the former building of Habibia College with its main aim being provision of vocational facilities to a small number of employees or office workers who, somehow or the other, were unable to study upto the 12th standard. Here they could obtain the diploma of 12th standard by pursuing their studies in the in-service training courses.
                                          50
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             AtflllANJOMfl                VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                                  \ i
      In the year 1955, with the arrival of a number of experts belonging to UNESCO and Columbia University, the in-service study program was expanded and was named Teaching Institute. In this program, teachers having passed the 9th standard were admitted in the 10th standard and those who had passed the 12th standard examination were admitted in first year of the college in different subjects and could continue their studies upto the Master's level. This program was conducted during vacations i.e. in winter vacations in the cold regions and during summer vacations in hot regions. The students had to pass their tests and to submit a written thesis, after three winter or summer courses which was , considered equivalent to one academic year, to be able to get a certificate or degree. For students coming from far off places and countryside, hostel facilities were provided.                                          •*
                               •         • •        V '
      The war-torn Afghanistan has a dire need for an in-service study program in different subjects for acquiring professional and well-trained personnel. For this purpose the following points should be considered on priority basis.:
    Classification of teachers on the basis of their academic qualification,
    Initiation of courses after office-hours,
   Special syllabus commensurate with the regional requirement and the professional assignments,
 - and ultimately raising the academic standard of the officials and employees to the Master's'level in specific subjects.
    CLASSIFICATION OF TEACHERS AND OFFICIALS ON THE BASIS OF THEIR ACADEMIC QUALIFICATION
      If the teachers have fore-noon duties, they can come in ^the afternoon and if they have afternoon duties, they can come in the forenoon( to pursue the in-service program courses in the related institutions. On the other.hand they have the option to pursue the studies during vacations in winter season in the cold regions and' in summer season in' the hot regions. Besides these, in-service courses for the office workers and employees should be conducted after office-hours.                                  >
                                  AFTER-OFFICE-HOUR COURSES
      It is expected that at least one Teachers Training College would be, established in each province of Afghanistan for in-service training'of teachers so that it may cater for pre-employment and in-service education of the teachers in the desired subjects. As in the in-service classes, advantage is taken of the administrative, professional and academic personnel and the existing furniture, and equipment and office facilities, therefore this- program is very economical, whereas it is a fundamental factor for progress from the qualitative and quantitative point of view.                  ,
                              GENERAL AND PROFESSIONAL SYLLABUS
                                                *
Training College in the capital or the provinces 51
 Each and every Teachers
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              MMI JUMP                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
  can cater for in-service teaching parallel to pre-employment training in a useful and economical manner. In this way they can satisfy the thirst for knowledge among the residents of each region of the country and also raise their standard of education so that, like the dark periods of the past, no vacuum may come into existence between the two generations.
   SPECIFIED EDUCATIONAL SYLLABUS COMMENSURATE WITH THE CONDITIONS OF WORK AND PROFESSIONAL DUTY
     As stated above, such a syllabus should be implemented through short term in-service courses within the framework of the Higher Education Directorate of the Education Ministry. Accordingly the latest innovations, changes and developments taking place in different subjects and professions may be taught to the students in the light of the teachings of Islam - because progress in profession would not be -possible without being updated through refresher . courses.
     Raising the academic standard of the officials and employees upto the Master's level in specified subjects would be practicable in the Universities of the capital and the provinces. Office workers can pursue their studies in the desired subjects, after the working hours and get admission in the relevant colleges after passing the admission test. In this way they can perform their assigned duties effectively in their respective departments in the light of advanced knowledge as well as improve their qualification by pursuing higher studies and qualifying for the post-graduate degree.
  A STUDY OF THE PROBLEM OF DISCONTINUATION OF ACADEMIC STUDIES IN DIFFERENT PHASES OF EDUCATION AND ITS IMPACT ON THE CURRICULUM: BY SHAH WALI ATAI
     As the wretched communist regime in Kabul, during the last 14 years, unleashed inhuman tyrannies against the oppressed Muslim nation of Afghanistan for the sake of promoting its own sinister political objectives and ideology, one of its main targets was the educational system of the country. The teachers and lecturers of the classes X, XI and XII were compelled to serve a period of 3, 4 or 5 years in the army, gendarmeri and Na'tional Revolutionary Defense Corps etc. Similarly during the last 14 years most of the educational institutions in the provinces were either destroyed by aerial bombing by the regime's forces or had to be closed down as a result of guerrilla operations by the mujaheddin against the infidel regime. A number of students and teachers supporting the regime arrived in the capital from the surrounding areas and a large number of students and teachers opposed to the regime either migrated to other countries or became engaged in other professions or joined the ranks of the mujaheddin. Therefore in this period educational vacuums were created and nearly all the provinces suffered from this deficiency.
     If we compare the educational facilities under the infidel Kabul' regime with the First Five Year Educational Plan (1957-61), we can dare say that the number of schools and colleges existing under the said regime were much lesser than the above Plan period whereas the number of students are- much lesser than the above-mentioned period.
     As we see, the development of education in Afghanistan, from the
                                      52
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
  quantitative and qualitative viewpoint, was retrogressive which has been a great loss in the educational history of Afghanistan since 1978.
       However it may be pointed out that although by the Grace of God in every refuge*e camp, as far as possible, educational wings of the Islamic parties established schools and expanded their spheres, yet due to the shortcomings in the professional abilities of the teaching staff or non-existence of professionally qualified personnel, the desired results could not be achieved.
      DISRUPTION OF ACADEMIC COURSES IN THE INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
       A number of the Muslim Afghan youth studying in higher classes did not accept the bondage of the corrupt rulers and raised their voice against the tyrants. Consequently they were imprisoned and some of them were even martyred. The rest of the students had to migrate to other countries.
       Although lately in the countries where they migrated, conditions for the pursuance of higher studies in different fields have become favorable yet they face some difficulties.
  •THE IMPACT OF EDUCATION DISRUPTION ON THE CONTENTS OF THE ACADEMIC SYLLABUS
       Each and every country has influenced our system of education. For example in the past Britons, Americans, Germans, French, Indians and the Russians etc. interfered in our educational system and each one tried to attract our students to their own way of thought. Even today other countries, where our students have migrated, have tried to impose their views through academic courses and formed their own committees and opened their own offices, for this purpose. They are making plans for our education, our syllabi, textbooks and teachers' training programs. On the other hand the puppet regime in our country, under the influence of the soviet authorities, tried to Russify our educational syllabus..
      The difficulty that we face in this regard is the non-existence of a unitary syllabus throughout the country and the schools in refugee areas. It is hoped that this deficiency is eliminated in the shortest possible time and I am certain that those who would assume the responsibility of educational affairs in the future Islamic government of Afghanistan, would devote their attention, in the first instance, to the coherence of the syllabi with the different schools run by the parties as well as the international commitees of academic assistance.
                                        DISCUSSIONS
          MOHAMMAD ALAM BAYAN: have some suggestions regarding Mr. Monsef's article
  which are worth consideration. Firstly the in-service courses may be reserved for those who have passed the 12th standard. For those who have passed the 13th or 14th standard of the Teachers Training College, 10 or 1}5 years ago, separate refresher programs should be enforced so that they may be better acquainted with the new techniques and principles of teaching. Another suggestion of mine is ^that under the existing- circumstances, in-service courses are not that much
                                              53
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         ftfCliANJ[HAfl             VOL. 5 NO. 4
 essential because necessary facilities are not available and in most of the
                                                        I                       ■  ■
 provinces neither Teachers Training Colleges exist nor teachers who may initiate
 in-service courses* Therefore, it would be better if instead of in-service
 courses, short term seminars or courses are initiated.
                                                                              *
 MONSEF ■ My article does not close the doors on your suggestions and I have hot said that specialization in any subject has not been useful or sufficient. What I have said is that in-service courses too should be initiated because such courses augment the academic standard. X have suggested that these courses should be held in the relative administrative units, because it will not be economical to establish separate units for these courses.
 PROFESSOR FAZEL:     I would like to offer some explanation in this connection. Our
 today and tomorrow's teachers would be able, in due course of time, through extended programs during the course of a couple of years, to acquire the minimum teaching qualification. The reason being that most of our present teachers, besides having lower educational standard, are not acquainted with the teaching methods, too. In order to fill this gap, the teachers ought to study professional courses, because in-service programs serve to upgrade the, academic qualification of the teacher. On the other hand, professional courses would not only upgrade their academic standard but also make them well-qualified teachers.
 SHAH WALI: I think that such a thing will materialize only in this way that we may adjust the contents of the course, be it teaching principles or teachers' training program, with the requirements of the time and try to solve this problem gradually. The syllabus for the Teachers Training College should be standardized. The only difference suggested by me is that the Teachers Training College conducts two semesters, whereas , we will be able to teach the same syllabus in one year instead of two years, through two or 4 months courses or, if necessary, by adding two months of practical training to the three courses of teachers training and give the same credit, rights and privileges to these teachers, as professionally qualified teachers. For example the 13th standard in the college comprising two semesters cover one academic year but the courses suggested above ,wouln ake 3} or 4 months. Consequently the teachers would graduate after 18 monLub, But the logical sequence of subjects should be observed in the teaching of the course.
                                      ARTICLES
     EDUCATION OF THE PHYSICALLY DISABLED IN THE AFGHAN JEHAD AND THEIR PROFESSIONAL REHABILITATION:
 BY MOHAMMAD ALAM BAYAN
      Generally speaking we may categorize the disabled in our war-torn country in the following manner:
      1.  Blind or partially blind;
      2.  Deaf and Dumb or partially deaf and dumb;
      3.  Crippled (without legs); %
                                        54
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            jMliiMHIlll                 VOL.  5  NO. 4
                                           S,                  '
4.  Crippled (without hands);
5.  Paralyzed or partially paralyzed;
6.  War neurosis.
  1.  BUND OR PARTIALLY BLIND
      The blind totally and the partially blind relatively in a lesser manner cannot take advantage of the normal educational programs and the usual printed text-books. Therefore they need a different kind of syllabus and suitable text-books.
      Teaching those persons who have lost their eyesight due to the war is relatively easier than those who are blind by birth, because often they have retained the visuai imagination and remember their experiences. Therefore, on questioning in this regard some of the sightless people stated that they learned the style of Braille writing as well as mathematics and algebra, in a shorter, time and in a better way compared to the naturally blind.
 2.   DEAF AND PARTIALLY DEAF
      Some of the psychologists believe that those persons who have lost the power of hearing due to an accident or some other causes, their mental faculty is also affected. Hence they cannot comprehend ^ clear ly and cannot logically co-relate their thought and speech and as such face difficulty while speaking or writing.
      Those who have, lost their power of hearing temporarily or partially, can cover up the deficiency l?y using hearing aid and have lesser difficulty in learning compared to the completely deaf. Partially deaf- are taught alongwith the normal students in the same environment and according to a similar, program, but the teachers are duty-bound to give the benefit of their teaching to these disabled students. They should place the disabled students in the front rows and if necessary, should speak in a higher tone and communicate some of the matters by gestures or by writing on the blackboard.
      Teaching the totally deaf is more difficult than teaching the partially deaf and even the completely blind because the partially deaf and the totally blind can be taught in a class alongwith other normal students but the totally deaf who cannot hear even with the help of the hearing-aid, cannot fye taught in a normal >classroom. They need speech-teaching process.
  3.  THE PHYSICLLY DISABLED
      ’■ ■   • ’   .>    *1                              '     i ■
      Although these incapacitated students have lost their legs or arms or a part of their physique has been maimed, they face lesser difficulty in learning, than the blind and the deaf. They can continue their studies with suitably planned syllabus and with the help of the required equipment. But in practical life and in professional and technical occupations they face the same difficulties in finding a job, as the other disabled persons, because they cannot compete with the normal and healthy persons in performing physical labor. That is why the educationists devote their attention to the teaching of
                                            55
JULY-
SEPTEMBER, 1992
1
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 professional skills to these students. They need the joint efforts of specialists (in education, psychology, sociology, physiotherapy and medicine) in cooperation with the guardians of the students.
      It is possible to educate the disabled in the following manner:
      (i)  In normal schools alongwith other students;
      (ii) In separate and special classes conducted in the normal schools;
     (iii) Teaching the physically disabled in special institutions.
      These institutions should have different departments like the departments of physiotherapy, craftsmanship and teaching, skills. The Students of. these schools/institutions should be provided with full boarding and lodging. However, their educational courses should be conducted earlier and physiotherapy programs later.
 4.  WAR NEUROTICS
      The Red  Army   invasion caused various psychological disturbances  among a
 large section   of   our society. In other words, • in the same manner   as this
 devastating war completely annihilated the entire assets and material wealth of our country, it destroyed the intellectual wealth of our country on such a,large scale  that it  may   take many years before we may be  able to develop  the same
 talents and the. same expertise. The greatest misfortune caused by the war has been the infliction of psychological- disturbances, social mal-adjustment, depression, melancholy and drug addiction among the majority of the people. These  maladies disrupt the growth   of miscellaneous  abilities and talents in
 society.
                     SUITABLE MEASURES FOR THE MENTALLY RETARDED
 (i)   Medical treatment plus psychiatric remedy;
 (ii)  Establishment of psycho-consultancy centers in schools or at least in •educational centers;
 (iii) Anti-smoking and anti-narcotic measures;
 (iv)  Provision of necessary training opportunities and occupations to make the mentally depressed, forget the hardships of the war;
 (v)   Inculcating the social responsibilities and the obligations of reconstruction of the future society in the minds of such persons;
 (vi)  To forestall' unemployment and to keep the neurotic persons away from the rough and tumble of the society and i;o' assign relevant duties to them;
 (vii) To strongly motivate an interest in education.
      Educating the disabled and providing humanitarian assistance to them
                                            56
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              MANJM                          VOL. 5 NO. 4
 entails the following problems:
 (1)    Insufficient experience in this field;
 (2)    Maltiplicity of categories of the disabled;
 (3)    Non-existence of relevant date;
 (4)    Sacarcity of scientific and research books and literature in this regard;
 (5)    Over-aging of tjie disabled for the   purpose of admission in a school as
                well as non-existance of facilities for teaching them craftsmanship;
 (6)    Shortage of funds and means;
 (7)    Time-gap between the society, the mode of education and the transformation of previous standards under the present circumstances.
 EFFECTIVE FACTORS IN THE EDUCATIONAL PROCESS OF THE DISABLED AND THE PEDAGOGY.
      1. Highly qualified/trained teacher: The teachers should be trained in such a manner that they may be well acquainted with the principles of teaching and psychology of the incapacitated so that such students may attribute high hopes and expectations -to them and feel proud to have such a -privilege towards the cause of jehad and Islam.
      2. To change their belief and attitude towards disability; The tutors
 should train the disabled in such a way        that they may not feel themselves
           from others and by preserving their sense* of pride and sacrifice consider themselves a part of the social structure.           '
      3. Research for Providing Facilities; As the system of education for the
 incapacitated is a new phenomenon in our society and so far such training institutions have not been established the matter needs more study and research.                      .
      4. The Role of Family: There is no doubt that family plays an important role in the education of children and youth. Bu.t with regard to the disabled, the importance of the family is more' prominent because they cannot fulfill the responsibilities of an active or normal member of the family and stand in dire need of help by others.                                         '
      5* Utilization of Technical Means for Education:  Side by side with impor-
 tant and increasing advancement and inventions, science and technology have given unlimited hopes to the educationists in the field of education, too. Particularly the technical equipment like phonetic calculators, phonetic typing machine and Braille style of writing etc. are very helpful for teaching arithmatic and reading and writing to the blind.
57
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992              flfGHANli[H/lfl               VOL.  5 NO.  4
                EDUCATION OF THE DISABLED IN AFGHANISTAN BY: MOHAMMAD NAZAR KARYAR
  STATISTICS OF THE INCAPACITATED IN AFGHANISTAN BASED ON A CURSARY SURVEY (PESHAWAR. PAKISTAN).
      The Geneva University Report 1987 put the number of the physically disabled persons in Afghanistan as a consequence of the Holy War against communism to
 275,000. The FWSAD has estimated the total number of the physically disabled Afghans as a result of the Afghan War upto nearly two million, residing in Afghanistan and outside Afghanistan. It adds that daily two hundred persons get incapacitated as        a result of war throughout Afghanistan. The  said institute
 reports that by the end of 1990    50,000 persons lost one of their  limbs and
 40,000 have artificial limbs, whereas about 7,500 disabled have registered their names for artificial limbs and plastic surgery.
      In the same way as every jehad organisation has been active in the Holy War against infidelity and    has remained active even now, they have nevei^ shunned
 from any assistance to   the disabled in the war and have helped them with the
 same moral and material vigor by providing them medical treatment and looking after their health and well-being. Every jehad party has separate calls for help to the incapacitated and for social welfare,. AH those physically disabled who have registered their names   in the relevant cells of the parties,  have benefited
 from medical and      financial aid. On the basis of verbal reports, the number of
 tne disabled registered with various parties is as follows:
      The BBC reported    on  16 March, 1992 that  due to mine    explosions in
 Afghanistan 400,000 persons were incapacitated whereas 200,000 were killed. It added that 1,400,000 were killed in the war.
                                     AGENCIES FOR THE DISABLED
      The first aid to the Disabled Movement was formed in the United States, of America. The next such movement for the rehabilitation of the disabled was xnitiated with the active participation of the President -himself. Further development and reinforcement o£ the office for the education of the disabled was legalized.
      Two high commissions are- also functioning in Sweden for helping disabled. .          -
      Services to the disabled in Sweden are mainly devoted to normalization or rehabilitation. They try to make the disabled take active participation in his/ her social environment in a normal manner. In other words they encourage the disabled to get more use of their existing physical ability to compensate for the loss and to cover the deficiency of his/her incapacity.
      In Afghanistan too during the '70 decade a School for the Blind on national level was established at Kabul with the help of .foreign agencies.
                                                       58
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            (MM JIHMI                     VOL. 5 NO. 4
                            EDUCATIONAL CURRICULUM FOR THE DISABLED
       To educate a person means to. make him a man of character and a man of
          reasonable personality or in other words to help him acquire maturity in
 thought and behavior..                              •
                               ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOR THE DISABLED
 1.     Education of the disabled between the age-group 7 to 21 years ought to be made compulsory.
 2.     Boarding schools should be established.
 3.     Preparatory schools and kindergartens should be set up.
 4.     Training schools for students from the age 7 to 17 years are essential.
 5.     Special hospitals and clinics may be built and activated in relation to the density of population. For example, for an administrative unit of one million residents, one hospital and two clinics for the disabled are essential.
 6.     Houses for the disabled in different sectors should be built in villages.
 7.     Daytime Activity Centers for the disabled are necessary. In these centers, alongwith the education of the disabled, traditional occupations in professional and medical fields should be taught. Besides, social and cultural functions may also be held in these centers.
 8.     Closed workshops , may be established where the disabled may learn systematic occupational and productive trades.
 9.     Recreative activities are arranged for the disabled.
                          PROFESSIONAL AND OCCUPATIONAL ASPECT
      Institutes entitled "Study Centers of the Behavior of the Disabled" may be established. These institutes should do their best to assess and evaluate the behavior and aptitude of the disabled from time to time side by side witfc professional programs.
                                                     59
 JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992          HAN JIHAD                VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                    DISCUSSIONS
 MONSEF ■Mr. Bayan has written a very good and comprehensive article. As regards the statistics mentioned in the’ article, I would like to ask whether these data were quoted from an authentic source. The reason is that there is a discrepancy between the data submitted by him and Mr. Karyar.
 BAYAN: In my article, I have used the. word "estimated" and in the preamble of the article, too, I had stated that a precise statistics of the disabled has not been prepared. Some of the statistics prepared in Peshawar, particularly in the hospitals, cannot be considered totally correct. The reason being thht most of the disabled have not gone out of Afghanistan because of the distance or because they are under traditional and local medical treatment and moreover most of these disabled persons comprise of women and children.
      In regard to the statistics mentioned in my article, it is stated that these figures have been quoted from the Red Cross and the Norwegian Committee data.
 F0RM0L1 11 should like to ask Mr. Bayan, would it not be difficult for the disabled students if they be taught in the same class, with other healthy ones? Would they not be faced with the non-cooperation of other students? I reckon that if special and concise syllabi are chalked out for the disabled to enable them learn the skills and lessons sooner to find a suitable employment, it would be much better and more useful. '
 BAYAN:    With reference to the education of the disabled, I have said that under
 certain unavoidable circumstances, they may be separated from the normal students. For example, as stated earlier, the blind should be taught separately with the help of special teaching methods. With the exception of these specific groups, all the other disabled ought to be taught alongwith the normal students because on the one hand they would bie helped by the healthy students and on the other they may have an opportunity to exchang'e ideas with the normal students. Thus they would have more and direct contact with the social environment. Besides, the most important thing is that they would not feel themselves as a group different from the others in the society and would hot suffer from inferiority complex.
 HUSSAINKHAIL:     After listening to the article written by Mr. Karyar, it occured
 to me that the people in, Afghanistan were maimed and martyred as a result of ah alien superpower, therefore the latter (Russia) should pay the war reparations as the aggressor. Unfortunately so far none of the international institutions has taken up the matter. This matter begs the attention of a legal agency. The berieved families of the martyrs and the disabled are entitled and justified to be compensated sufficiently for the losses suffered by them for no fault pf theirs.
                                                     60
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            flfGIIJlNJtHAO               VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                           ARTICLES
                                 NATIONAL ETHICAL STANDARD
 BY: HUSSAINKHAIL
     Prior to all other religions, Islam developed the mental faculty of the human race to such an extent that they  may discern the final Divine Commands and
 general principles governing the world as the ultimate rules of the universe. In
 the light of these commands and basic rules, Islam provided a vast opportunity
 for the exercise of judgement based on logical deduction.
     From the legal viewpoint any violation of the law which is beyond the judicial jurisdiction of the magistrate and for which the attorney may not be able to provide a concrete proof, the judicial authority has to acquit the accused. But from the point of. view of Shari'at (Islamic Code), although the accused may be exonerated from worldly punishment', yet he cannot escape Divine Justice in the hereafter.
     In consequence of the ominous communist coup besides the troubles and travails .suffered by the Afghan nation, one of the significant impact was the tremendous change in the moral standards of the youth. The heterodoxical communist preachings, the Western free-thinking and the problem.of the younger generation attaining adulthood in the atmosphere of the jehad and seeking the solution of every problem through the barrel of the gun, are some of the grave issues facing the future Islamic government of Afghanistan which make its task very hazardous. The task is to streamline the contradictory ethical standards confusing the youth and to recycle their thought processes on the Islamic lines.
     The Education Ministry of tl)e future Islamic government of Afghanistan has to establish a department which may chalk out a single and unitary moral, religious and educational program for the country. It would be in the fitness of things if all the Muslim scholars and academicians actively participate in this plan. .The Ministry of Education ought to allocate sufficient budget for the implementation of this plan which should, cover everybody without any exception whether he may be a scientist or a doctor or a teacher. The reason is that the Islamic teaching is based on distinct and prominent principles without which no teacher of philosophy or religion can play an effective role in the field of education and character building activities.
     Islam does not segregate the teaching of ethics as a separate subject but considers it a part of human conscience! It favours inner cleanliness of man. That is why our scholars say that human values in a person grow in his conscience and thus save him from the influence of animal instincts, cruelty and other sensual evils. Thus man rediscovers his rights and' obligations and develops such constancy in treading the path of Shari'at that he becomes capable of obeying the Divine Commands earnestly and enduring all the hardships in this connection patiently.                       "
61
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 199?      PIGIIANJIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                ISLAMIC VALUES AND NECESSITIES.
 BY: MAWLAWI MAHMOOD DARASWAL
      This topic has such a vast and comprehensive meaning and definition that
          it would not be possible to encompass it in the confines of this article.
 Therefore, in a nutshell, the following points are discussed here:
      1.  Value and need of Islamic learning;
      2.  Value of Islamic scientists and scholars;
      3.  Importance and necessity for education;
      4.  Importance and necessity for teaching;
      5.  Importance and necessity for female education;
      6.  Being generous in the dissemination of knowledge;
      7.  Remuneration for teaching.
      This Islamic government is duty-bound to prepare the ground for compulsory Shar'iat (Islamic Code) education for the people. Especially the present Afghan government should devote its attention to re-educate those young people who have been influenced by the heathenish communist ideology or the ideologies of those countries where they have been brought up and consequently have forgotten the sabred Islamic ideology. On the other hand while educating the future generation and the present one, for eliminating ignorance and illiteracy as well as for expansion of positive knowledge, the authorities concerned would have to give priority to the following activities:
                                      4*
1.   First and foremost, the parents have an obligation to educate their children and youngmen and teach them the Islamic morality and manners and not to allow them to be in the company of objectionable people and discourage them from reading misguiding books, magazines and literature or joining un-lslamic parties.
2.   Radio and television and the press should publicize the essential Islamic injunctions and tenets regularly.
3.   Seminars and conferences should be, held in the religious institutions and other suitable venues to enlighten the youth about Islamic commands and beliefs.
4.   Lessons related to ideology, Islamic jurisprudence, ethics and politics
      should be included in the text books to add to the knowledge of the
      students. Similarly arrangements be made for writing, compiling and
      printing books and for establishing a library.
                                                *
5.    In order to prepare the students for religious preaching, seminars and conferences should be held occasionally and they ought to be encouraged to make speeches, certificates and awards should be given to the best students.
For the sake of expanding Islamic education in Afghanistan, religious schools may be established in each province and possibly in every district. Similarly a Shari'at Faculty may be established in every university.
                                   62
6
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AHJIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO.  4
 7.   Literacy courses for the adults should be initiated and important Islamic ideological points be inserted in the text books. These courses ought to be conducted by experienced teachers.
 8.   In the schools of elementary and secondary levels, the Islamic precepts should be taught in such a manner that a student, after passing the higher secondary examination, should possess the following characteristics:
      a) Besides having firm belief in the laws and fundamentals of Islam, he should be able to enlighten other people with reasonable arguments;
      b) He should learn Islamic commands, ethics and manners logically and rationally and put them into practice in his daily life, seriously;
      c) He should posses sufficient knowledge about himself, his creator, his family background, human societies in general as well as about the universe.;
      d) He should know that Islam progresses parallel to.the evolution of human life and the progress of time, because Islam supports the advancement of knowledge, science and technology for the betterment of mankind.
    ISLAM IS THE FIRST RELIGION ENACTING A LAW FOR THE ELIMINATION OF ILLITERACY AND PUTTING IT INTO PRACTICE.
 BY: ABDUL AHAD ASHRATI.
      All the prophets have been teachers with the added responsibility of guiding the people on the right lines. Our Holy Prophet (PBUH) said, "I have been delegated as a teacher". This is an evident proof of the value attached to the status of a teacher and the esteem accorded to learning. God Almighty throws more light on this topic, in these words in the Holy Quran:
      "He it is who hath sent among the unlettered ones a messenger of their own, to recite unto them his reveilations and to make them grow and to teach them the scripture and wisdom, though heretofore they were indeed in error manifest." (Surah Al-Jum'ah: Verse-2)
      It means that God has done a favor to the faithful by commissioning a prophet from amongst them to recite the divine verses to them and to purify their thoughts and conscience and to teach jthem the wisdom Of the. Islamic code and the universal reality.
      In a land infested with ignorance, blesphemy and enmity towards knowledge, for the first time the Holy Quran is written, and later on during the caliphate of Hazrat Osman (May his soul rest in peace) it was precisely transcribed with appropriate punctuations by Muslim scholars to make it easily readable by all followers of the faith and was sent to the cities far and near on a large scale. Consequently the Muslims tried to seek guidance from the verses of the Quran and everyone tried to copy a verse or two of the Holy Book to keep it wi£h himself. This attitude may be viewed as an early attempt for the eradication of illiteracy
                                                      63
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              flffillllNJ[HAO                VOL. 5 NO. 4
     The life and character of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and his revered companions as well as the enthusiasm of the Muslims to put into practice anything they learnt from the Holy Quran, is being followed, after so many centuries, by the modern civilized world, stressing the importance of knowledge in the daily life of man.
     At that time the Holy Prophet took the following steps to spread knowledge and to eradicate illiteracy:
         Conveyed the verses of the Holy Quran to the people.
     - Ordered the transcription of the Holy Quran.
         Encouraged people to memorize the Quran.
         Put into practice the teachings of the Quran.
         Urged the teachers to go to the cities, far and near, to teach the people.
         Parents were obligated to educate their children.
         Religious scholars were deputed to help the seekers of knowledge in their studies.
         The illiterate were advised to seek knowledge and acquire literacy from their literate neighbors.
      As quoted from Alqamah bin Sa'd bin Abdul Rahman bin Abzi, once thje Holy Prophet in his sermon advised the Muslims:
      "What has happened to the people that they do not teach the Islamic jurisprudence to their neighbors and do not teach them, and desist from advising them and do not enjoin right conduct and do not forbid indecency. What has happened to the people that they do not learn anything from their neighbors and do not get acquainted with Islamic jurisprudence with the help and guidance of their neighbors and do not pay heed to their advice. I swear to Allah that everyone is dutybound to teach his neighbors and make them acquainted with religious jurisprudence and deliver sermons and enjoin on them right conduct and forbid them from indecency, otherwise soon they, will invite the Divine wrath."
     The Holy Prophet employed a lady to teach the mother of the faithful, Hafsah (May Allah Bless Her) the art of reading and writing.
     The action of deputing teachers to distant places shows that Islam desires that illiteracy, and ignorance may be eradicated from the Islamic world, at the earliest.
                        FIRST LAW FOR THE ERADICATION OF ILLITERACY
     After the establishment of an Islamic government at Madinah, the Holy
                                                 64
JULY - SEPTEMBER» 1992     A[GIIAN j[HAil               VOL.  5 NO. 4
Prophet (PBUH), for   the                        first time in the world, enforced a law for  the
eradication of illiteracy. The following law was enforced, after the battle of Badr:
     "Those POWs who  cannot afford to pay                    the ransom for their release, can do
     so by the rule   that each prisoner may teach reading and    writing to                  ten
     persons for his release from prison."
     In this way the above law was implemented and those POWs who were literate, each taught reading and writing to 10 persons and secured his release in this manner. Hazrat Zaid bin Saqeb was one of those, who learnt reading and writing under the said law.   This                       was the first  legal order of its kind which was
enforced for propagating literacy and expanding knowledge and learning in the society.
       . OFFICIAL AND UNOFFICIAL ADULT LITERACY CAMPAIGN
                                                          I
BY M.A. KARIM NEDAYEE
     The complete extra-school educational survey conducted by a large number of University professors throughout the country, 12 years ago, in many fields such as language, industry, profession and people's interest in education etc. is quite useful. As the imposed war caused numerous changes in all the provinces in Afghanistan, it would be advisable to carry out a fresh survey of those deprived throughout the country so that a classification of educational officials and teachers of various regions based on their academic qualifications may take place. Thus it may be feasible to initiate literacy programs and craftsmanship courses in the local dialects of that particular region. Similarly such courses can be started by the religious Muslims of the same province under the aegis of the educational' departments or directorates. However, the official and unofficial craftsmanship courses resemble the syllabi of the government schools. From the educational point of view, preference is given to professional craftsmanship courses so that it may be of economical and social benefit for the future.'
     Although the growth rate of education in Afghanistan during the pre-communist coup, especially from the qualitative angle was at the lowest level in the world, yet in the internal and external communist domination era, it touched the lowest ebb compared to the previous times and was even misleading.
     During the last 14 years, the most fatal blow was struck at the educational system of the country. On the one hand our youth were not interested in the heretic educational system and on the other the youngmen joined the ranks of the mujaheddin and were either imprisoned or martyred.
     Although in Pakistan a number of international relief agencies established many religious institutions, schools, higher education institutes and professional education courses for the Afghan youth, but these do not suffice for a large number of students who could not be accommodated.
     We should provide technical, professional and Craftsmanship training to
                                                 65
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992          flfdlflHJfHflB___________________VOL. 5 NO. 4
 those mujaheddin and our competent brothers who have sufficient knowledge of the technique and tactics of war and weaponry but are not literate and enable them to get educated in a short time as truthful guardians of the Islamic state of Afghanistan and as a part of our armed forces in a more organised and disciplined manner.
      When we cast a glance at the composition of the nort-governmental training in craftsmanship,, we find that more often than not, this .training takes place by practical transfer of experience in the workshops and on the spot. Children and youth acquired these essential skills, in the first instance, or an apprentice from their fathers, brothers and their ciose relatives and later from trustworthy and pious people in their society.
      Since the imposed war, the professional and polytechnique institutions in Afghanistan faced a stalemate. Besides the devastations of the war have been so widespread that reconstruction of the country would not be possible without a sufficient number of professional personnel. • By initiating professional, technical and craftsmanship courses in a static or mobile manner, keeping in view the requirements of the region for certain skills, one may take advantage of public buildings like schools, mosques and clinics and if possible the homes of faithful and pious Muslims, in the villages, too. Thus we can shorten the period of learning and make a better use of the manpower. The       nucleus of
 educational program and planning would be the educational institutions under the control of the Ministry of Education.
                                          DISCUSSIONS
 FORMOLI : 1 have a suggestion which refers to historic issues. Surely the respectable scholars know that history narrates the events of the past. Therefore, historic events should be referred to on the basis of authentic documents. Mr. Hussain Khel has stated in his article that when Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi invaded India, he did not spare even one of the Hindus and idol worshippers and killed all of them. I think this is an exaggeration.
 SHAHRANI I The fact is that Sultan Mahmood Ghaznavi in the course of his seventeen invasions in India, did not cohvert anyone by force, to Islam. On the contrary he invited them to Islam and gave them the choice to reject or accept it.
 HUSSAINKHAIL: In response to the observations of Mr. Formali I may explain that I never intended to say as if Islam permits religious conversion by force. The kings and conquerors referred to in this article, either shattered the idols of the pagans or eliminated the vestiges of idolatory and completely dominated the idolators, but never imposed their own ideology on them because Islam does not allow the use of force for this purpose. On the contrary, they introduced Islam by preaching and delivering sermons and then invited the people to accept Islam.
 MAWLAWI NAFEY: Mr. Daraswal in his article, stated that "seeking knowledge is the duty of all male and female Muslims." This is one of the sayings and traditions but the term 'female Muslims' is not included in this saying. Mr. Daraswal said that he has quoted one of the sayings and traditions. I agree that it may be
                                       66
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              AMMANJIHAfl                   VOL.  5 NO. 4
 possible but the eminent scholars who have specialized in the field of assessment of. the sayings, call such terms as 'additional' and are of the opinion that such words have been concocted.
 MAWLAWIDARASWAL: I have stated the source in the footnote; Although this saying may be literally dubious but is correct in the sense that it conveys arid in view of its frequent quotations in the past, it is confirmedi
 FORMALI: Mr. Nedai has put greater stress ,on craftsmanship. It may be pointed
 out that vital literacy has a broader meaning and is not confined to skill in any trade. It encompasses all trades and crafts. One can go beyond the above limit and learn farming and commerce etc.
                                             ARTICLES
        COORDINATION AM) ESCALATION OF THE VARIOUS STANDARDS OF EDUCATION IN THE FUTURE AFGHAN SOCIETY.
 BY: HASSAN GUL BANDAftAL
      For removal of obstacles in the path of the future Islamic government in Afghanistan, comprehensive and all-out efforts are needed. Out of these, the following two subjects are pointed out and some suggestions are given in this regard.
 A)   Difficulties regarding the education of Afghan refugees;
 B) Condition of the children and minors who remained under the dominance of
      the communist regime in Kabul.
      With reference to (A) mentioned above, the difficulties may be enumerated as under:
      (1) Language;         (2) Culture.
      Here are some suggestions for raising the standard of education and for removing the obstacles in this regard:
      As stated above, comprehensive efforts by the Islamic government of Afghanistan are needed for removing these snags. It is hoped that these efforts will bear fruit in the shortest possible time and the educational process will be started in the right direction.
 1.   First of all a high-level committee be set up to determine the general aims and objects of the education.
 2.   As the chalking out of the programs and compilation of the text books take a long time, when the text-books are being written, a competent committee be formed to select the format of one singular text book out of all the pre-communist era books as well as the books compiled in the neighboring
                                           67
 JUI.Y-SEPTEMBER. 1992                HIIMIUMI_____________________ ML.  5  ».  4
      countries, commensurate with the requirement of the time so that the same may be introduced in all the schools for teaching purposes.
 3.   Within the framework of the Ministry of Education, a department named Directorate of Incomplete Education may be established. It should be responsible for the education of those students who face some difficulty in certain subjects and who have remained backward in comparison with other normal students.
 4.   The backwardness or incompletion of education of students ought to be evaluated on the basis of their academic documents or the pre-admission test.
 5.   Those students who have not passed half of th% prescribed subjects for studyi should be admitted in appropriate classes in harmony with their level of education.
 6.   However the classification of schools would be the same as in the past, i . e . :
      a)  Elementary: From class one to class six.
      b)  Secondary: From class seven to class nine.
      c)  Higher secondary: From class ten to class twelve.
 7.   Efforts should be made to upgrade the students with incomplete studies to the level of students who have completed their studies in a period of nine months so that they may not miss the chance of admission to the university.
 8.   Vacations of all schools and colleges of the country should be determined on a uniform basis, as in the past, under the title of summer and winter vacations. These vacations should start after the promotion pf the students to higher classes.
 9.   As before, all juniors should be taught in their own mother tongues. The second language should be taught in class IV and foreign language from class V onwards.
 10.  Those students who have forgotten their mother tongue and their level of education in other subjects be higher than the class IX, should be taught their mother-tongue for one academic year.
 11.  For better teaching to those students whose studies have remained incomplete, seminars should be held for their teachers.
 12.  Those students who lag behind in certain subjects, should not be promoted to the next class unless they update their studies. Similarly those students who are in the secondary grade, but have the above deficiency, should not be promoted to the higher secondary level and the higher secondary students having the same difficulty ought not be admitted to the university without qualifying properly.
 13.  To determine the educational level of the students, in science and
                                            68
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992              IlfGllllHJIHRfl               VOL- 5 NO- 4
     mathematics, their past record should be evaluated. As regards academic level of students in theology, language and social sciences, it can be determined through concerns and viva voce.
14.   Students with incomplete studies should devote more hours to their daily sutidies. They ought to be taught by their teachers in the schools, four or five hours, daily in the morning and afternoon. Besides, additional schools be established for these students and short courses may be conducted for them in a specific period, so that they may be updated through family help and concise study courses.
15..  Such students should be divided in two groups by the teachers concerned ite. those students who want td complete their incomplete study courses and those who want to study further.
          YOUTH WAYWARDNESS DURING MIGRATION AND THE CAUSES OF MORAL DEVIATION AMONG YOUNG MEN,
 BY: DR. NEZAMUDDIN NAFEY
      In the eyes of Muslim scholars, waywardness among the younger generation has many reasons and some of the important causes of such a behavior are as follows:
 1.   POVERTY
      Life in abjection or poverty has never been favorable in Islam. On the other hand Islam favors leading a good life by working hard and earning legal income according to Islamic standards by acquiring moral and material amenities. This is considered one of the pure blessings' in the world.
 2.   FAMILY DISCORD.
      Family is the only unit or nucleus where the intellectual growth, personality and vision of an individual develops. If the parents are sincere and loving, th6 children grow in a healthy atmosphere and become sincere and affectionate. Otherwise, their sons and daughters seek refuge in other things or incline towards perversion.
 3.   DIVORCE AND SEPERATION BETWEEN HUSBAND AND WIFE.
      A family is a single social unit which is composed of tranquility, stability, satisfaction, love, peace of mind, cooperation and well-being and mother is the nucleus of the family.
      But in case this unit of love and valuable character building disintegrates due to divorce, then undoubtedly the children are badly affected. When a son does not find • a loving and affectionate mother or misses her, then he is compelled to spend most of his time outside the home and mix with abnormal or aberrant youngmen which causes waywardness in his personality.
 4 UNEMPLOYMENT
                       • One of the factors which lead to moral degradation among our offspring, is
                                            69
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     AfCIIANJfHIIO                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
 the inactivity or lack of proper utilization of the leisure time. Obviously if the youth do not have a proper hobby or proper engagement in their free time, they go out in search of pleasure and pastime. When they are unable to find any suitable pastime, they incline towards improper and unhealthy pastimes or hobbies in their surroundings.
 5.   BAD COMPANY
      One of the big factors leading to waywardness among youth is mixing with anti-social and amoral people, because one adopts many attitudes and moral preferences from one’s friends. This has been endorsed by scholars, psychologists and experienced persons. Particularly minors are sooner influenced by the sordid company.
 6.   THE MEDIA AND OBSCENE MOVIES
      As you are aware, television, radio and cinema play an effective role in the dissemination of ideas. For example, if recitation of the Holy Quran, the Traditions of the Holy Prophet (PBUH) and his revered companions, teachings of the saints, real scenes of the Holy Wars and/or a documentary on the life of a pious Muslim family be broadcast or telecast, there is no doubt of its positive impression, on the society. It will help in healthy mental development of the youth and would guide them to the right path. On the contrary, if ideas repugnant to our valuable beliefs contradicting our Islamic norms and laws or obscene films showing nude and semi-nude scenes are screened, the younger generation will get a negative impression and will corrupt their mind.
 7.   INATTENTION OF THE PARENTS TOWARDS THE UPBRINGING OF THEIR CHILDREN
      Another factor leading to aberration among youth ensues from parental inattention. If parents do not pay sufficient attention to their children during the formative years *of their lives, their personalities are deformed. Hence the significance of parent-child relationship is noteworthy in all respects.
                                   PREVENTION OF ABERRATION
      In this connection, the following points should be taken into consideration :
 1.   ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ISLAMIC SOCIETY
      If a society is based on Islamic principles, then theft, dacoity, deception, falscehood, corruption, crime, obscenity and indecency would not exist. Consequently abnormal behavior among the younger generation would not be observed and they will benefit from the advantages of Islamic way of life.
 2.   HEALTHY RELATIONS BETWEEN PARENTS AND THE YOUTH
      In * o^der to ensure normal and healthy behavior . among the younger generation, relations between parents and children should be friendly and pleasant•because in such an atmosphere the child will develop an affectionate, sympathetic., truthful and trustworthy personality and hence would not go astray.
70
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        AFGHAN JFHflfl
 3.  ENCOURAGEMENT TO SELECT GOOD COMPANIONS
      As we are aware, a man is known by the company he keeps. So haying good and pious friends, strengthens the bonds of friendship and leaves a good effect on one's life in the hereafter.
 4.  SOURCE OF INCOME AND DUTY CONSCIOUSNESS
      A Muslim can earn his living by performing a duty or through useful employment, irrespective of the fact whether he Is employed in a government department or  a private enterprise,   provided he is able to bear the        hardships and
 responsibilities of such assignments.
 5.  SENSE    OF SOLIDARITY  WITH THE   SOCIETY AND CONSCIOUSNESS OF SOCIAL
        OBLIGATIONS
      Islam  recognizes the  sanctity of social relationship and  emphasizes the
 importance of equality, brotherhood, friendship, piety, cooperation and sense of social responsibility.
      That is why Islam does not permit its followers to cause any trouble or discomfort to one another. Therefore, when all the individuals in a society develop sense of fellow-feeling and appreciate their social responsibilities and obligations and act accordingly, then aberration and deviation disappear from the society, giving way to faith, righteousness, piety and good behavior.
 6.  ABIDING BY THE MORAL VALUES AND ISLAMIC TEACHINGS
      As we  know, morality  constitutes the infrastructure of a  healthy social
 life and social security and good relationship between individuals are guaranteed by ethical standards and moral way of life.
    EFFECTS OF COMMUNISTIC EDUCATION AND THE NEED FOR RE-EDUCATING THE YOUTH
 BY: JAUHAR SIDDIQI
      The Russians have been for many years trying to weaken or destroy the national and Islamic culture of the people of Afghanistan. For this purpose they have used all the means at their disposal. They have created economic imbalance, moral .tarpitude, corruption, temptation, misleading propaganda, deceipt, degrading Islamic aptitude as decadent, spreading anti-religious culture in the educational system through their stooges, penetrating into the press to stop or discourage the publication of revolutionary and Islamic ideas,' maligning the religious leadership, misleading the youth, by various pretexts, closing the door of progress on the face of opponents of the Red Imperialism, forestalling the influence of Islamic thinkers, appointing inefficient judges in the courts of law to malign the Islamic Code, creating obstacles in the path of establishing religious institutions, keeping the religious scholars away from political affairs, discouraging the students from seeking admission to religious schools, distributing newspapers and magazines to promote the Russian political objectives, and last but not the least, providing free or at cheap rates.
                                         VOL. 5 NO. 4 wmmmmmmmmm
                                                        71
 JULY - SEPTEMBER F 1992        AfGIVIIt JIHAD                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
 hundreds of anti-religious and anti-ethical books to the educated or semi-educated youth.
      Sadruddin Aini published his recollections in four volumes, ridiculing religious leaders and followers of different religions, and in 1960 for the first time hundreds of its copies were distributed among the citizens of Kabul. Besides the Iranian Tudeh Party opened special bookshops in Kabul and some of the townships in Afghanistan and offered Iranian communist publications, particularly books written by Ehsan Tabari, for sale at very cheap rates. A large number of military officers kept these publications in their pockets and
 the youth would quote the contents of these books among themselves. Moreover a large number of military officers, were sent to the ex-Soviet Union for further training. With the exception of a few officers, most of them, seeing where the wind blows, declared their solidarity with communism to share the future power in Afghanistan.
      Russian scholarship in all the subjects was available to one and all. Thus apostasy gained ground in the society and became a sort of fashion and modern way of thinking.
         A CURSORY GLANCE ON THE DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE DARK ERA OF OUR HISTORY
      Here we would briefly discuss the communist activities during tne dark period of communist dominance in the country so that we may know what they did and now what is our Islamic duty in restructuring our damaged economy and reviving our distorted culture.
 1.  SABOTAGING NATIONAL SOLIDARITY
      In this era tribal, linguistic, regional and religious prejudices were strongly fanned to undermine the sense of Islamic brotherhood among the Muslim masses and to pave the ground for the promotion of Russian colonial policy in the country and the region.
 2.  STRIKING AT THE ROOTS OF AFGHAN ISLAMIC CULTURE
      A) IN THE FIELD OF EDUCATION
 (1) In the class VII textbooks a monkey's photo was published to convince the students that man was originally a monkey and that man is not more than a progressive animal. In this way the philosophy of evolution and materialism was inculcated in the Muslim child's mind.
 (2) For the government servants too short-term courses were initiated in order to inculcate materialistic ideas in the minds of administration personnel.
 (3) A large number of government officials were -s«nt every year to Russia for brainwashing so that they may pursue short courses and get acquainted with the atheistic culture.
 (4) Every year a large number of minors were sent to Russia to be trained and
                                         72
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992               R[flllANJllflfl                VOL. 5 NO. 4
      educated in an atheistic atmosphere and to return to their homeland .as confirmed communists.
 (5) The Vatan Orphanage was also established for this purpose and mostly orphaned and children who lacked a guardian were admitted to this institution.
 (6) Reformatories, which were the only institutions in the past to reform the minor offenders, were used for political purposes and minor offenders were educated here in atheistic culture under the supervision of experts so that after a while they could be employed in the intelligence network of the state.
 (7) Russian scholarships, on a large scale, were granted to the students who had passed the Higher Secondary examinations, to graduates and civil and military officers so that they could receive their education in higher studies in the USSR and after completing their study-course could return to the homeland with a special mental attitude- commensurate with the materialistic way of life.
 (8) The academic standard in schools, colleges and universities declined. Experienced teachers and professors were hard to find. The recognized educational standards were non-existent. For example, for admission to the medical college it was not required for the student to pass the concours. Merely possession of a certificate of military service would qualify a student to get admission to any medical college.
      Accademic background, intelligence, talent, political awareness and comprehension were ignored and most of the youth lost their faith in a better future.
 3-  DAMAGING NATIONAL AND ISLAMIC CULTURE THROUGH THE PRESS
      The communist regime assessed the services of religious personalities and spiritual leaders from the materialistic angle. Hundreds of articles, treatises and books promoting atheism, written and compiled in various styles, with one single object, were published and distributed free or sold at nominal rates. Movies and TV plays demigrating the services or contributions of religious leaders as well as semi-nude and sexy films were telecast by Kabul Television. Some movies from Arab countries were, screened to point out to the people that the Arabs themselves have rejected the religion. In other words they wanted to tell the people that under the circumstances why should we be so persistent in our religious beliefs.
 4-  DESTRUCTION OF ISLAMIC CULTURE BY HITTING AT THE ROOTS OF MORAL VALUES.
      The puppet regime was strongly inclined towards promoting licentiousness, obscenity and sexual crimes so that the traditional sense of honor might be diluted and Islamic culture might lose its hold on the people.
 5-  ILL EFFECTS OF THE MINISTRY OF ISLAMIC AFFAIRS ON THE SOCIETY
                       • The regime was bent upon appeasing the Muslims by devious means. Therefore,
                                            73
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             flfGIIANJIH/IO                VOL. 5 NO. 4
 it established an Islamic Affairs Directorate and later upgraded it to the level of a full-fledged ministry. Officials of the ministry carried out anti-Islami'c propaganda through radio, television and publications under the cover of Islam.
                              OUR SOCIETY NEEDS CULTURAL JEHAD
      Although the military jehad of Afghanistan achieved victory yet the mission of cultural jehad by the Afghan intellectuals has yet to be accomplished. To root out the ideas of atheism from the minds of those who have been infected seriously by such a brainwashing, is not a simple task. One cannot change people's attitude or mental preferences merely by issuing orders or by resorting to force, nor whipping up the sentiments of the people can eradicate the negative thinking processes in the society. Use of force or compulsion in this case would be detrimental to the cause of Islam. We should show patience and tolerance and try to enlighten these afflicted persons that they have made a mistake by thinking that such an approach can help the human society reach its ideal goal and that this philosophy can help them understand the problems of life.
      In order to put these people on the right track, the following points may be noted:
                       THE NEED FOR ESTABLISHING AN ISLAMIC ACADEMY
      We stand in need of establishing scientific academies and cultural institutions, so that   all the impacts and fallout of the communist era may be
 analysed and studied   thoroughly and logically and formulate suggestions   in
 different fields to improve the situation.
        THE ROLE OF WISE PREACHERS IN ROOTING OUT THE VESTIGES OF ATHEISTIC CULTURE
      It may be pointed out that religious preachers develop the noble characteristics of human beings by reinforcing their belief in God and religion and the Islamic code of social and moral values. A preacher, besides possessing sufficient knowledge of religion, having conviction in his ideology, being pious and man of character, should also have a good command in human psychology. If a preacher, without understanding the psychological problems of the people, resorts to compulsion   and force and is inclined to convince his audience   by
 talking tough he will  never succeed. Such an attitude would hurt and alienate
 the audience instead of attracting them to the right path and the Islamic way of life. Preaching is, in fact, a science. It can be effective only if car.ried out scientifically and according to a reasonable pattern.
                        CONCLUDING STATEMENT BY ABDUL AHAD ASHRATI
 Dear Professors and Teachers, Assalam-o-AlaiJcum
      There is no doubt that the best gathering is that of knowledge and learning and the best companions are the teachers. We should always try to be in the company of the teachers and to benefit from their knowledge and experience.
                                             74
  JULV-SEPTEMBER, 1992              flfGHUNJ[Hfifl             ___ VOL. 5 NO. 4
          mmmmmaBmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmmmmmmmmammwmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
       After having lost so many years j now for the first time in this seminar I have enjoyed the atmosphere of love and affection in the company of my tutors. It is a gathering of Our very respectable teachers and professors. On behalf of all the kind and scholarly personnel of the CCAR who have undertaken the unforgettable responsibility of such seminars and myself as a founding member of the CCAR, I consider it my duty to express our gratitude to all the respected guests and dear teachers who have honored us with their presence in this seminar. Many thanks are due to Professor Mohammad Fazel, who has implemented the program of this seminar chalked out by him, in a very masterly manner and ,we have been able to take advantage of the ideas and experience of the educationists for updating our education system and proving a valuable asset to the Education Ministry of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. It is desired that these suggestions may be given a practical shape by our intellectuals and scholars in Afghanistan who, we expect, Would practically take part in this effort.
       It is an undeniable fact that in the wake of Russian invasion, closing down of schools. Colleges and universities, internal displacement and external migration, participation of our youngmen in the armed jehad, poverty, paucity of funds, wandering life, disease, and physical disability have deprived us of educational institutions, teachers, homes, gardens, hospitals and welfare associations. Therefore in view of all these impediments it will take some time to remove all the said shortcomings and deficiencies.
       This seminar has a special significance in all respects and it is hoped that it will contribute to the restructuring of the edifice of education with the much needed cooperation of our respectable teachers.
       At the end, once agaiji thanking all our brothers, we pray for Divine blessing to all of us.
             BIOGRAPHY OF THE PARTICIPANTS WHO HAD PRESENTED PAPERS TO THE SEMINAR
   (1) Prof. Mohammad Fazel: Former professor of Psychology, Kabul Univessity, now lecturer at
   Da'wat & Jehad University, Peshawar. (2) Abdul Ahacl Amozgar: Former employee of Afghan
   Radio/TV, now member of Afghanistan Education Center. (3) Prof. Asadullah Shinwari:   Former
   professor at the College of Religious Laws, Kabul University, now lecturer at Da'wat & Jehad
   University.  (4) Fazlum-Minallah Fazli Former President of the Department      for Religious
   Madrasas, Ministry of Education, now member of the Scientific Research Board of Afghanistan in Peshawar. (5) Qutbuddin Najmi: Former lecturer at Kabul University, now lecturer at Da'wat and
   Jehad University, Peshawar, (fe) M‘. Mohsen Formuli: Former member of the Academy of Sciences,
   now lecturer at the HI A University in Peshawar. (7) M. Mohsen Munsef: Former lecturer at the Roashan teachers' Training Academy, now- lecturer at Da'wat & Jehad University, Peshawar. (8) Shah Aqa Mujaddedi: First Deputy Minister of Education of the Islamic Government of
   Afghanistan. (9) Mohd. Alam Bayan: Former lecturer at the Teachers’ Training Academy, now
   lecturer at  the Da'wat & Jehad University, Peshawar. (10) Nazar Mohammad            Karyar: Former
   professor at the College of Engineering, Kabul University. (11) M. Eshaq Hussainkhail: Former lecturer at the College of Religious LaWs, Kabul University, now lecturer at Da'wat & Jehad University. (12) Mawlawi Mahmood Daraswal: Former Instructer at Religious "Madrasas", now staff member of the CCAR. (13) Abdul Ahad Ashrati: Former Legal Adviser, Ministry of Justice, now I member of the Trust Council, Jehadic Encyclopaedia of Contemporary Afghanistan. (14) Hasangul Bandawal: Former member of Pashtu International Research Center, now member of the department for .human resources in Peshawar. (15) Mawlawi Nezamuddin Nafey: Former lecturer at Jame'e
   Madrasa in Herat, now 4 staff member ’of the CCAR. (lo) Abdul M^lek Jauher Siddiqi:   Former
   President of the Legal & Civil Courts' at the Supreme Court of Justice, now Judicial Counsellor of- the NIFA.
                                            75
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
       NEW BOOKS
 EDITOR'S NOTE: The particulars of the books below are given as they appear on the books themselves. Therefore, the CCAR cannot be held responsible for incomplete names or specifics, if any.
     (1)  THE HOLY QURAN: TRANSLATION AND COMMENTARIES VOL-IK PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Abdullah Yusuf Ali; translated by: Sabahuddin Kushkaki; publishers: CCAR; 424 pages.
 CONTENTS: Translation  of Arabic text and commentaries of Section 11-20 of the
 Holy Quran.
 (2)   FORBIDDEN ACTS IN ISLAM (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Dr. Nezamuddin Nafeh; publishers: CCAR; 462 pages.
                                   *                 V5 •
 CONTENTS: Forbidden acts in beliefs, in behavior and conduct, in social life and general relations, in mapriage transactions, in diets and clothings etc.
 (3)   ISLAMIC ECONOMIC ORDER (DARI)
 AUTHOR:  Zahedi  Ahmadzai; publishers;  Shaheed  Prof. Ahmadzai Institute; 594
 pages.
 CONTENTS:  Definition of Economy, various economic systems, private ownership,
 communism, opinions regarding individual and collective economy, the ban on usury, Islamic law regarding land-ownership, equality from the Islamic viewpoint, the right of laborers in the Islamic economic order.
 (4)   RELIGIOUS AND POLITICAL KNOWLEDGE (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Ajruddin; 207 pages.
 CONTENTS: Quran  as  the charter of public freedom, scientific miracles of the
 Holy Quran, numerical miracles of the Quran, types of Quranic commentaries, importance of family, the philosophy of martyrdom.
 (5)   DANESHNAMA (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Shamsuddin Matin Saljuqi; 424 pages.
 CONTENTS:   A collection of poetry and prose including the following themes:
 Literacy, the pillars of Islam, inspiration, the apostles, the era after Prophet
                                                 7*>
  JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         flfGIIIIN JfHflfl                 VOL.  5 NO.  4
' Mohammad (PBUH), mystical discourse etc.
  (6)   AGREEMENTS AND ACTIONS (PASHTU)
  AUTHOR: M. Afghani; 47 pages.
  CONTENTS:  A review of the Peshawar Accords which led to the establishment of a
  "Half-baked" and mischievous government in Kabul. The pamphlet enumerates inadequacy of this accord.
  (7)   FOLK POETS OF PAKTIA (PASHTU)
  AUTHOR: Ewazuddin Siddiqi; 80 pages.
  CONTENTS:  A collection of biographies of 19 local poets of Paktia Province and
  examples of their poetry.
  (8)   STEP-BY-STEP TRACE OF THE AFGHAN ISLAMIC MOVEMENT (DARI)
  AUTHOR: Haji Mohammad Amin Ferotan; 306 pages.   -
  CONTENTS:   A collection of the Kausar journal editorials .on events in
  Afghanistan.          .
  (9)   BRIEF REMEMBRANCE (PASHTU)
  AUTHOR: Asadullah Ghazanfar; publishers: Naheed Printing Institute; 112 pages.
  CONTENTS:  A collection of short stQries by the author depicting social life .
  during the jehad period, scenes of the jehad bunkers and the miserable state of .             t              \
  living as a refugee.
  (10)  EVENTS OF SINDBAD (PASHTO)
  AUTHOR:  Dr. Mohammad Fareed Bazgar, publishers:     Sharq Cultural & Social
  Institute; 63 pages.
  CONTENTS: Three   stories from Sindbad events which can be very informative for
  children.
  (11)  RAYS OF AN UMRAH PILGRIMAGE (DARI)
  AUTHOR: Ebadullah Mustaqim Khulmi; 23 pages.     *
         • ' >
  CONTENTS: The events of a pilgrimage to the Holy Makkah in poetry.
  (12)  THE HISTORICAL VICTORY IN KHOST (PASHTU)
  AUTHOR:  Shuhrat Nangial; publishers: Mattlawi Jalaluddin Cultural Society; 266
  pages.
  CONTENTS:  A number of reports, essays, documents and pictures regarding the
                                                77
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992             JUNtH                 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 Khost conquest.
 (13)   SANGARDARAN-E-JEHAD-E-GHAZNI , VOL.I (DARI )
 Compiled and published by the CCAR; 484 pages,
 CONTENTS: The book gives a brief biography of 1,872 mujaheddin of Ghazni
 Province martyred during the war.
 (14)   THE IMMORTAL DR. ABDULLAH IZZAM (PASHTU
 AUTHOR: M. Zahedi Ahmadzai; Shah'eed Prof. Ahmadzai Institute; 227 pages.
 CONTENTS: Life history of the late Palestinian Dr. Abdullah Izzam who came to
 Peshawar for the Afghan jehad. He was engaged in political and cultural activities and was martyred for the same cause.
 (15)   AND THE BULLETS CROSSED EACH OTHER (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR:   Shuhipt Nangial; publishers:Farhang-e-Jehad; 100 pages.
 CONTENTS: The: book relates  the Jehad activities in Wardak Province from the
 beginning to the end.
 (16)   THE AFGHAN-SOVIET WAR. FACTOR BEHIND THE DOWNFALL OF UNIVERSAL COMMUNISM VOLUME-I (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Amir Etimad Danishyar;publishers: the Bahinah Press; 417 pages.
 CONTENTS: The main themes in the book are: Pre-planning the uprising.,, a glance at the political situation and foreign policies of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe prior to the invasion of Afghanistan, the objectives of the invasion, the Afghan-Soviet war, the defeat of the Soviet Union etc.
 (17)   THE CIA ORGANIZATION (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Zahedi Ahmadzai; publishersJShaheed Prof. Ahmadzai institute; 40 pages. CONTENTS: Organization, budget, global objectives of the CIA.
 <(18) PUBLIC OPINION AND PUBLICITY (DARI)
 AUTHOR: Prof. Habibur Rahman Halah; publishers: WUFA; 254 pages.
 CONTENTS: Definition of public opinion, formation of individual opinion,
 historical evaluation of public opinion, the impact of press on thought, the impact of public opinion on the press, various forms of modern propaganda.
 (19)   FROM DARKNESS TO DARKNESS (PASHTU)
 AUTHOR: Pir Mohammad Karawan; Publishers:WUFA; 150 pages.
78
      JULY-SEPTEMBER, -1992            DiGIIANJIHJlil . .           VOL.  5 NO.  4
      CONTENTS: A collection of poems composed by the author related to jehad and also to the present.bloody and miserable life in Afghanistan.
      (20)   LAST NIGHT (PASHTU)
t.     AUTHOR: Mula Dur- Mohammad Gauhari; 290 pages 1 1
      CONTENTS:   A collection of social, jehadic and epic poems depicting the dark
„     communist era  of yesterday.                        '
      (21)   PASSIONATE CRIES (PASHTU)
      POET: Abdul Ghaffar Kotwala; 86 pages.
      CONTENTS: Jehadic, social and contradictory poems.
 4.
*
79
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 f/
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992
IfCIM
VOL. 5 NO. 4
               EDITOR'S NOTE:   The  "Afghan  Jehad" quarterly used to have a
               section under the title "The Mujaheddin Press". However» in our last issue the mujaheddin press and that of the internal press were kept separate from each other. Now that the two have merged into each other» we have also decided to henceforth use "The Afghan Press" instead which will cover the contents of both the internal and external press of Afghanistan.
AKHBAR
NEWS ITEMS:' This journal, which is released by the Islamic Embassy of Afghanistan in Paris, in its first editoral writes, "by the Grace of God Almighty, the unstinted efforts of the righteous mujaheddin of this land and the offerings of l£ million martyrs in the way of Allah, the Islamic state of Afghanistan succeeded to subdue the satanic enemy of the history. It was just at this time, when Kabul was inhaling the fresh air of freedom, that a number of the mujaheddin started carelessly to victimize the oppressed people of Kabul firing rockets and missiles on the entire city and its residents which had no precedence even in the past decade." In regard to this publication, it ^ays, "in order to keep our compatriots abreast of knowledge and information about the developments in the homeland, the Islamic Embassy of Afghanistan has decided to bring out this magazine         bi-monthly.    Our
information is generally based on telex messages, from our Foreign Ministry and the Bakhtar News Agency in Kabul. We also plan to convene seminars and conferences on different topics so as to cater . for the needs of our compatriots in a better way outside the
country."
    Al-Badr
  JUNE-JULY
EDITORIAL: "Our nation did not rise up
to establish the rule of anarchism." Terming the 14-year promises of jehad organizations fo the nation as 'mere empty slogans', the editorial says, "skipping the preliminaries it ought to be said that the prevailing situation in the country, especially in Kabul, and the conditions ‘of the ruler are neither acceptable nor tolerable and, therefore, cannot be supported. We should declare in unequivocal terms that the nation's struggle and jehad of 14 long years was not aimed at the establishment. of mal-admini s.tration , confusion and total misery. The prevalent problems are partly due to your weakness ‘and mine, partly due to his ignorance, and partly due to his treason- and partly are the products of unsagacity, incapability, feelings of irresponsibility and their illegal desires. Apparently there are alien hands which contribute mainly to the dominating bloody atmosphere in here. But careful analysis will reveal that in the final examination the responsibility of these excesses shall rest on our shoulders. If the existing situation persists, indefinitely it will bring more miseries and misfortunes."
NEWS ITEMS: In a television address
81
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     AffillilN J[H/1(1
Prof. Rabbani, the President of the interim government said, "the Russians ought to pay for destructions in Afghanistan."
- Hekmatyar said, "in case the militia forces do not leave Kabul HIA shall drive them out forcibly".
   Ustad Fareed, the AIG Premier, arrived in Kabul 6 July, 1992.
AUGUST—SEPTEMBER
EDITORIAL: "Repetition of blunder is a
crime." Recalling the past blunders the editorial writes, "we cannot afford to have more bloodshed, due to developments and expediency, thus contributing to the escallation of fighting area in Kabul to the provinces. The ouster of militias from Kabul. alone cannot guarantee national security. and peace since those were internal elements which emboldened the Russians of Uzbek ethnic origin confront the mujaheddin, otherwise the ouster of Russians and remnants of co’mmunism was not more difficult than defeating the Red Army. Presently.the problem is that the 'Yazedians1 are considering themselves the 'Hussainians' while naming the opposite side as Yazedians. ,They care less for morals violating their pledges and not feeling for their misdeeds, interpreting them as Islamic. In order to check such developments the establishment of a powerful and authoritative Islamic council is the need of the hour. Such a council should be endowed with power to dismiss the elected Islamic governments, too in ease of deviation, arid organize an army comprising all the Islamic forces, not dominated' by a particular organization, so that the. entire races, tribes and religions could be able to resume a peaceful life under the banner of Islamic oneness and unity.
REPORT: "Baisawad" of Albadr, in a
report from Kabul and Peshawar, speaks
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 out the feelings of people's sorrow and grief briefly and writes, "I talked with one of the victims of the latest clashes in Kabul, who was admitted to a Peshawar hospital managed by Arabs. He could hardly speak because his ears and nose were cut asunder by the Hazaras. However, with utmost
 difficulty he said, "during the latest clashes in Mirwais Maidan, west of Kabul, which took place between the HWIA arid the Sayyaf group, the former would- hurl any bystander (except the Hazaras) into a container and with the help of a crane lift it well above the ground and then let it drop. Another method of gruesome killing was by packing a container with humans (some 50/ of them), pouring petroleum both inside and outside and putt ting' a match to it." He added that at Qala-e-Wahed, in the western-most fringes of the city, a mass-grave was uncovered where bodies of tens of children with cut throats were dumped.
        Anis
                                 JUNE
             22
 EDITORIAL: "Mines Clearance". The
 editorial writes: "Knowing the layout
 of the land, availability, of the map to the land and mined localities, provision of UN assistance coupled with financial resources of friendly countries, extensive participation of the natives, employment of skilled personnel - and granting preferential rights and privileges to the mines activists will certainly expedite the mine cleararice operation. Since mines and un-exploded ordnance are mainly in the provinces and city suburbs, it will be better to extend the mine clearance' operation to villages, towns and countryside all the more. It goes
82
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         HFfilljlNJEHAD            VOL. 5 NO. 4
 in the conference hall of the Institute.
 without saying that in this operation our people's sincere, earnest and sympathetic cooperation will play a 'vital role. We are hopeful that by dint of this cooperation we will be able to get rid of the evil of mines."
 NEWS ITEMS:   Professor Mujaddedi, the
 President of Jehad Council and Head of the interim Islamic State of Afghanistan participated in a mammoth gathering of jehad commanders and elders of Nangarhar province held at the Gulkhana Palace in Kabul 21 June, in which he said, "the Islamic State of Afghanistan is at service of the Muslim people of Afghanistan and under the prevalent ' conditions it is the basic duty of the Islamic State to maintain security throughout the country."
    Mohammad ,Akbar Ferozi, President' of International Relations department of the Afghan Red Crescent.Society in an interview observed, "the Afghan Red Crescent Society is a philanthropic social organization, non-aligned and non-governmental and operates in accordance with the basic, principles of international Red Cross and the Red Crescent."
                   23
 NEWS ITEMS:    Sebghatullah  Mujaddedi
 received the Jehad Council delegation of Kandahar province, scholars, elders, the jehad commanders of sector I and II of Behsu'd district of Wardak province, jehad commanders and elders of Paktia province, and jehad commanders of the NIFA of various provinces in the country separately at the - Gulkhana Palace 22 June.
 - The Kabul Medical Institute classes which had remained closed for 3 months were resumed on 22 June with an address by Dr. Sayyed Mohammad Amin Fatimi, the first Secretary of the Ministry of Public Health in an impressive ceremony
 - The Embassy of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Kabul presented a number of textbooks and some stationery to the Watain Orphanage 22 June.
                 24
 EDITORIAL: "Gates to Education reopen".
 While expressing pleasure over the reopening of the "Kabul Medical Institute" the editorial writes, "presently the children, the young boys and girls realizing that the Islamic state is initiating effective plans for their education, are looking forward to opening of the schools and colleges so that a great number of our children and youth resume their normal education. We hope that with speedy restoration of peace and security and the strengthening of permanent reconciliation in ^ the country the educational process of the university and other learning institutes will become normal again so that the Islamic State could carry out its obligations satisfactorily.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Professbr  Mujaddedi met
 with WHO delegation 21 June and thanked the organization for its humanitarian assistance and emphasized the need for the continuation of WHO assistance in the future.
    Professor Mujaddedi met , with the frontier scholars and jehad commanders of Paktia province 22 June, and prayed for the maintenance of peace and security in Afghanistan and prosperity of the people.
                 27
 NEWS ITEMS:   The Leadership Council
 session of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, presided over by Professor Mujaddedi, was convened.24 June. Since > the 2-month office tenure of the
83
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 Leadership Council under President Mujaddedi, according to Peshawar Accord, expires 29 June, therefore the Leadership Council decided to declare its end and the transition of power.
    Two aircraft of the Arab Republic of Syria, carrying foodstuff as aid to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan', landed in Kabul International Aairport 25 June.
           I   _ •  _     • '        '
 -  Ayatullah Sadiki Parwani, member of Supervisory Council, met with the special representative of the Turkish Republic and his companions at his residence 26 Jhne*-
                    28
 NEWS ITEMS:       Professor Mujaddedi
 received representatives of retired military officers at the "Gulkhana Palace" 27 June. After congratulating the President on the establishment of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan the representatives      presented     their
 applications regarding their salaries
 which were referred to their respective quarters duly instructed by the President.
    An agreement of Cooperation for technical assistance was negotiated 27 June between the Islamic State of Afghanistan and the Republic of Turkey in the Ministry of Planning.
    As per a decree issued by Prof. Mujaddedi, an honorary rank of Major General was conferred on Walijan Wasiq,, Secretary and Patron of the Ministry of Information and Culture in recognition of his services and sacrifices.
 - According to the protocol negotiated
 between the Afghan Red Crescent Society and the German          •Peace Village,
 the sixteenth group of disabled and
•crippled children, whose treatment
VOL- 5 NO. 4
 inside the country seemed impossible, was sent to Germany 27 June.
 - Ayatullah Mohammad Asef Mohseni, the Secretary     and  Spokesman   of   the
 Leadership Council, received a number of jehad commanders of Kandahar province   in his  office 27 June,  and
 discussed   with  them the    existing
 conditions in their province.
                  29
 EDITORIAL:  "The  appointment of   the
 first President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan". With the expiry of the two-month office tenure of Prof. Mujaddedi Professor Rabbani, leader of the JIA and President of the Leadership Council,  took        over as the first
 President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan 28 June, in accordance.with consensus of the jehad parties in Peshawar. . As leader of the JIA and as an axis of unity and understanding among , the entira cross-section of people arid nationalities, races, tribes and r parties. Prof. Rabbani has fulfilled his role very effectively.
 REPORT:  As of       28 June, 1992, on
 the    basis of previous decisions,
 state power was officially transferred to Prof. Rabbani, the President of the Leadership Council. A function held at the "Gulkhana Palace" in this connection was attended by the members of the Leadership Council, a number of Jehad Couricii members, some of the ministers and some members of the diplomatic corp in Kabul., Prof. Mujaddedi in a statement explained the measures and activities initiated by the Islamic State of Afghanistan during the past two months. Afterwards Ayatullah Mohseni, the Secretary and Spokesman of the Leadership Council of Afghanistan, on behalf of the Leadership Council, handed over the Presidency to.Prof. Rabbani.
84
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992      AFfillitNJ[HAO                   ' VOL. 5 NO. 4
          ■ _ • . _ *__\__ '_______________________________ ■
      Following that Professor Rabbani stated, "to take over the state Presidency under such sensitive conditions and-that also in the Islamic country is not a simple task, because this duty entails great responsibility before God Almighty, the public and the homeland which cannot be taken as trivial. This is not a distinction but a test and an onerous job.
 REPORT: In a statement broadcast from
 Afghan Radio/TV 1 July, Prof. Rabbani said, "the reconstruction of the country's army, based on Islamic principles, and the constitution of jehad army, to protect and keep guard over Islamic revolution, defend the territorial integrity, history and culture, unity and national solidarity is one of our foremost obligations. The Islamic state, gifted to our nation, is undoubtedly the outcome of incessant efforts and continuous struggle of the. Muslim nation. Presently we are all standing for trial by God Almighty, the people's expectations and history's judgement. We are hopeful that in the same manner that we could ' make our way, through thick and thin during the revolutionary period and the brutal massacre by merciless communists, to the altar of victory, we will be able once again byi the Grace of God Almighty, to come out successful from this great test. In relation to basic reforms in the system of    womens'   training    .and  thei-r
 identification of education, culture and acquisition of required academic facilities in accordance with the needs of the Muslim   community,   the Islamic
 State is alive to it and the women will reap  dividends from the .entire  rights
 and  privileges, endowed    by  Islamic
 principles so that they hold their
 rightful place in the society."
                   2
 EDITORIAL: "National interests from the axis of our foreign policy", is the title of the editiorial which says, "the Islamic State of Afghanistan, while knowing the recognized principles of international rights, as a free country of the world, follows an independent policy and in line with identified goals, arid adheres to a clear and solemn diplomacy consonant with national interests. In accordance with valuable interests of the country Afghanistan favors bilateral cooperations with international communities and is very much against the use of force."
      "Afghanistan calls for end to bitterness and arms race and supports durable • world peace guaranteeing individual and social freedoms.
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof. Rabbani President
 of Afghanistan received Mr. V.G,.K. Nambiyar, ambassador of India in his office 1 July. Bilateral issues were discussed during the meeting.'
     Professor Rabbani received the Russian ambassador 1 July and discussed the development of bilateral relations.
        Considering the legality • of .freedom of expression and its positive role in the society, Afghanistan is paying serious attention to provide conducive atmosphere for the promotion of this democratic element. The same point has been emphasized by the honorable Prof. Rabbani in his first formal address when he said, "we respect freedom of expression in Islamic legal framework and honor moral ethics and national traditions and consider them beneficial and essential for the mental development of the society."
  i
85
 <
 JULY-SEPTEME1ER, 1992          flffillflfilIMMI           VOL.  5 NO. 4
 NEWS ITEMS:    In  his address to a
 congregation during Friday prayers in the mosque, of Wazir Akbar Khan Maina, Prof. Rabbani observed 3 July, "security and relief measures are the first priorities of the Islamic state obligations."
                                                                 The Leadership Council in its
 session 1 July, 1992 took the following decisions:
 (1) The entire armed groups and persons
 stationed in the security sectors of Kabul city ought to vacate their areas on arrival of joint forces of Defense and Home ministries.     -
 (2) Arms trafficking is bahned.
 (3)  A board; to investigate and scrutinize the Islamic state's interim constitution^ to be established.
                    7
 NEWS ITEMS:  In a Friday congregation
 at the Wazir Akbar Khan Maina mosque 3 July, Prof. Rabbani told the congregation, "no one has the right to sow the seeds of dissension among our Muslim, brethren under the names of Shia and Sunni."
            *
 - In an address to the faithful, in "Mohammedia Mosque", Mohammad Asef, Mohseni observed, "nationalism and racialism and those similar to them stand condemned'in Islam and according to Islam human beings are credited by' their degree of knowledge and self-purification which we describe as piety."     "
                    8
 EDITORIAL:   Commenting on Professor
 Rabbani's Radio/TV address to the nation the editorial says, "we believe that the Afghan . nation who have protected their national identity in different stages of history and
 maintained their pride will do the same (luring these sensitive moments too and shall come out victorious."
 NEWS ITEMS:    Ustad Saboor Fareed, the
 Prime Minister of Afghanistan arrived in Kabul 6 July. The following received the honorable Prime Minister in the area of Qala-e-Murad Baigs
      Ahmad Shah Masood, the Minister of Defence, Eng. Ahmad Shah Ahmadzai, Acting      Minister      for      Home
 Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Chakari, Acting Minister of Information and Culture and Dr. Abdur Rahman, Acting Minister for Civil Aviation.
                   9
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani, President of the Afghan interim government, met with Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, leader of Da'eya-e-Islami in the Presidential Palace 8 July. Matters related to the stability of the government and the security in Kabul were discussed in the meeting,
 *  Prof. Rabbani attended a reception 7; July which was held in hopor of Ustad Fareed assuming his duty as the Prime Minister of the interim government.
 *  Prof. Rabbani received a delegation of Kabul University Professors in his office 8 July and assured them that the students would soon be recalled to their respective faculties with the cooperation of the administrative and academic staff of the university.
                  12
 EDITORIAL:  "A risky path and a grave
 responsibility" is the title of the editorial which begins, "with the establishment of the Islamic Government the Afghan nation has reached a new stage of their political, economic and social life. At this critical stage it is required of all to strive for the
8(>
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992                                 HIllllflNutHflll                                   VOL-   5    NO-   4
 consolidation of the Islamic order and to discharge their duties towards the strengthening of the pillers of the Islamic government."
 NEWS ITEMS:  The Leadership Council of
 the Islamic government held its session under President Rabbani 9 July. Matters related to the foreign policy of the “country, provision of facilities for. the transfer of Afghan refugees to Afghanistan, economic assistance of some countries, supply of fuels to, Kabul and the reopening of the Kabul University were discussed in the meeting, and necessary .decisions were taken.
                       * . ' )
 * Prof . ! Rabbani received the managerial staff of cultural and social welfare organization in his office 9 July and briefed them on government programs in various sectors.
 « Ustad Fareed, the Prime Minister of the interim government met elders and dignitaries of the Isma'elia religious sect in his office 10 July. Sayyed Mans'oor Naderi promised all-out cooperation, on behalf of the others, towards strengthening of peace and security in the country. T{ie interim Prime Minister in response stated that all the various nationalities will enjoy equal rights in the Islamic government.
 " The commission for the formulation of the provisional constitution of Afghanistan, formed by the Leadership Council, began its work 6 July.
                   13
 EDITORIAL:   "Joint Cooperation and
 Historical Obligations" is the caption of the editorial which, after welcoming the victory of the Islamic revolution writes, "we 1 can say with utmost: certainty that in the same manner ’that the heroic mujaheddin brought the jehad efforts' to a successful conclusion.
 will also be ..able to strive for the realisation of. the aspirations of the^ jehad by creating a happy and prosperous community based on Islamic principles and justice, and fair—play. For achieving £his aim every Afghan individual has to shoulder historical and onerous responsibilities and with the help of Almighty God and the concerted efforts of the entire nation we shall be able to reconstruct upon the ruins of the country.
 INTERVIEW: Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad in an interview to ANIS said, "permanent peace can only be achieved through a single leadership. In my opinion all mujaheddin leaders should sit together around a conference table and discuss all matters openly and frankly and refrain from creating obstacles for each other." He said, the maintenance of peace and the refugee repatriation should be given top priority.
                                               15
 REPORT:  Abdus Saboor Fareed, the
 interim Prime Minister, in a radio/TV statement explaining his government policy said, there was no room for dissension in the Islamic government.; He said, "the reconstruction of Afghanistan and .the society can only be possible through an Islamic structure based on justice and equality. Honesty will form the core of our policy both at home and abroad and shdll never rule by deceipt and the use of force as were, excercised by the previous regimes. Our educational system will be based on Islamic principles. We shall endeavor •to place the entire information media in the service of the public. For our sisters (the women folk) we shall create conditions suitable . for their needs and the requirement of time within the Islamic framework."
        7           ,
                                                            Regarding reconstruction the Prime Minister said that the following were
87
                                                                                                                              «
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO. 4
 needed for this purpose:
      Maintenance of peace ' in ■ the country,
 2. Consolidation of unity among all cross-sections.
 3. Attracting . financial and technical cooperation from Islamic and other friendly nations.
      Regarding his government's foreign policy he said, it will be based on respect for the territorial integrity and non-intervention in the internal affairs of others. Good, neighborly relations with        other    nations,
 particularly those who have helped us during the jehad period, and non-affiliation in military pacts will form the nucleus of our foreign policy. "Our relations will be based on peaceful coexistance with all other nations and we will remain a member of the QIC and the NAM."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof Rabbani, the interim
 President, attended a meeting of well-known commanders from Nangarhar province in which Haji Abdul Qadeer, the governor, Haji Shamali, Fazl Haq and other dignitaries also took part. The participants promised every assistance and cooperation towards the implementation of government programs.
 * President ' Rabbani received the jehadic commanders of Badakhshan in his office 13 July. During the meeting the commanders expressed., their full solidarity with the Islamic government.
                   21
 NEWS ITEMS: H.E. Najafi, the Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran, presented his credentials to President Rabbani at the Gulkhana Palace 16 July.
 " The Leadership Council held its
 session 15 July apd discussed matters related to the allocation of housing • plots in Kabul., Afghan POWs in some ex-Soviet Union _ republics, the reopening of Kabul University and the maintenance of peace’ and security in Kabul.
 - A high-powered government delegation from Tadjekistan held a meeting with the Ministers of trade, water and power, city planning and agriculture in
 the Foreign Ministry 15; July. The meeting ended by initialling a protocol between the two sides on economic, technical and cultural development and cooperation between them.
                 22
 NEWS ITEMS:    The Afghan Leadership
 Council was held under Prof. Rabbani 18 July in which the following, decision was taken.
      All the mujaheddin grbups related to divisions 80 and 53 and other armed personnel must join forces belonging to the.Ministries, of Defense and Interior in a drive to clear the city off unwanted armed elements. The 1 Ministry of Defense is delegated to deal with violaters accordingly.
 « Prof. Rabbani received in his office at the Gulkhana Palace 17 July a number of Afghan children who had returned ffpm ' Kazakhstan recently and told them that the Islamic government was duty-bound to look after thpir well-being.
                 23
 NEWS ITEMS:   The following  decisions
 were made by the Leadership Council in its meeting 21 July:
 1. Declaration of ceasefire in Kabul with agreement of all the warring Sides. '      '
88

 JULY-SEPTEMBER > 1992         JfGIIAN iKMIfl
 2.  Delegations to be sent to the surrounding areas in .Kabul to oversee the ceasefire and to control the heavy arms arsenals.
 3.  Revitalizing the security zones
 according to plans of the Ministries of Defense and Interior. ,        /
 4.   Appointment of a delegation by the interim President for assistance and compensations to the families of the " martyrs and war-disabled.
 * Ustad Fareed, the ~ interim Prime Minister, presided over a meeting of the Cabinet 19 July. Matters related to the security situation were discussed in the session.
                   25
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial states  that
 according to the Holy Quran and the Sayings of Prophet Mohammed (PBUH) all Muslims are brother to each other no matter where they , may live or ..to whatever race, creed, color or nation they may belong. It goes on, "... let us extend a" hand of brotherhood to Wch other.' The days of war and guns are over but there are tables around which we can sit for talks and discussions and resolve our differences through negotiation.".
 NEWS ITEMS: In a press interview in the Foreign Ministry 22 July, the interim President Prof. Rabbani said, "from the religious point of view journalism is a grave and onerous responsibility and, at the same time, an honorable' and prideful profession provided a journalist reports correctly and honestly.
                   27
 EDITORIAL:  "There   is no room for
                                                         further destruction" is the title of ‘the editorial which says, "Afghanistan is the common home of all Afghans, no
                        ■{
                                                                                       VOL. 5 NO. 4
matter to what nationality or race he may belong. Half of the country has already been destroyed and we should see to it that the' other half is left, intact. It is the desire of the oppressed nation that all arms should be handed over to' the government and to refrain from fratricide. Stretch hands of friendship and brotherhood to each other and to live together as they had .done for centuries in the past."
 DECLARATION:  The Defense Ministry of
 the Islamic government of Afghanistan has declared the following appointments for the establishment of a regular Islamic army.
     Lt. Colonel Abdul Hakeem (HIA), Sayyed Jagran, General Commander (HWIA) and Gul Zarak (IIA.) as deputy ministers of Defense.
 -  Colonel Mir Anjamuddin as Commander-in-Chief Air Defense.
 -  The declaration further states that the officers imprisoned by the former regime or living in exile are requested to call at the Ministry of Defense as from I August for induction in the national Islamic army.
     All mujaheddin organizations are
     / '
 cordially requested 1 to introduce a contingent of armed personnel each for deployment in the jehadic division for Kabul city.
                                                29
EDITORIAL:   "Government attention to
 Agricultural Development", It says,
 "geographically, Afghanistan is an agricultural country. The ’presence of large and small rivers, springs and underground water- channels, the climatic * variations and the people ' s aptitude for work are all suitable conditions for the development of the agricultural sector." Recounting the
89
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992      HiGUAII J[HAfl               VOL. 5 NO- 4
 destructions and problems caused by' the war, the editorial says that exact planning with technical and financial assistance of foreign countries and international organizations, which are urgently needed, we shall be able to overcome the difficultiesJ.
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani in a meeting
 26 July briefed a number of 'elders, scholars and mujaheddin commanders on government programs for reconstruction.
 * Prof. Rabbani received elders and dignitaries of Kabul suburbs 28 July. Government Plans for the maintenance of peace in Kabul were explained to the visitors.
 " Ustad Fareed, thfe interim “Prime Minister of Afghanistan, received Alauddin Brujerdi, the Iranian Deputy ForeTgn Minister and his entourage, at the Gulkhana Palace 28 August.
                                          31
 EDITORIAL:  "Peace is ideal" is the
 title of the editorial, under which it says that the key to overcoming most of the present-day problems and ensuring a comfortable life both for now and the future can be sought in the return of peace to' the country. It says, "in the light of Islamic teachings and the realization of the government objectives, our today will be better than yesterday and pur tomorrow better than today. This aim can only be achieved when we are united together and the bonds of our brotherly relations are further strengthened with the passage Of time."      i
                                  AUGUST
                                            ■ 1
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani received the
 academic staff of the College of Air Defense in his office 29 July.
“ Ustad Fareed, the Prime Minister of the interim government received a
delegation of HWIA Leadership Council
                   )
at the Gulkhana Palace 30 July. During the meeting the Prime Minister expressed hope for further cooperation among the mujaheddin groups in upholding peace and security in Kabul.
    Ayatullah Mohseni, Secretary and Speaker of the Leadership Council, in a meeting with officials of. the Academy of Sciences 29 July said that member of the academy should play the role Of patrons in guiding the society on the right path.
- Upon an ordinance issued by interim President Rabbani, Mawlawi Mir Hamza has been appointed as Deputy President and acting chief of the presidential office.                          ,
                   2
EDITORIAL: It is entitled, "Our obliga^ tion towards the families, of martyrs and the disabled" and after enumerating government pledges in this regard, it says, "the government and the nation both are responsible for the welfare of particularly those widows who have younger children to support. The organizations 'established for these purposes must take all necessary measures to provide these with shelter and to overcome their other problems."
NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Sayyaf presided over
a session of the Leadership Council in which it was decided to form a committee of Ulama in the name of "Dar-ul-If ta" for the issuance of the necessary verdicts on matters related to Islamic jurisprudence. It was also decided that important government issues, particularly international contracts be promulgated by the Leadership Council.
*• Upon a decree issued by Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi has
90
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        AflillAHJH                 VOL.  5 NO. 4
 be.en appointed as the First Deputy President of the Islamic government.
                     3
 EDITORIAL: Under the heading, "Kabul is again shelled" the editorial says that the oppressed and helpless residents of Kabul again fell prey to heavy rocket fire by ■, HIA (Hekmatyar) forces stationed in and around Char Asyab and Butkhat areas. Some 150 rockets hit
             If
 Kabul during 1 and 2 August in which over 100 persons were killed and wounded’ and tents of residents in the slums of the city were also destroyed. These will serve no other purpose than to add further to the destructions »in the country. We.sincerely hope that the incidents of the last two days will be the beginhing of an end to fratricide and sufferings".
                      -  J
 NEWS ITEMS: Ahmad Shah Masood, the Minister of Defense has said that his ministry has the entire situation under control.
 " Sayyed mohammad Ali Javed, the acting Minister of Planning said that reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts in the country have gained more momentum.
                    19
 MEMORANDUM:  Our readers know that the ,
 barbaric rocketti'ng of the city has paralyzed   the normal life of Kabul
 citizens, cutting power lines and water supplies. The Afghan government press was also gutted during these raids. All this had badly affected the media in general.. As such the 35th issue of the paper, which was just about to go to press, could   not be published.     The
 situation  continued   for about    six
 weeks. With help of some obsolete equipment   and- out-dated machines,  we
 have finally been able to publish the daily Anis by lithography.
 REPORT: Prof. Rabbani, President of fhe
 Islamic state of Afghanistan, while attending the NAM conference at Jakarta 4 September, 1992 said, "our Islamic revolution against a super power and its supporters finally culminated in victory by the heroic struggles of our Muslim nation and which is a glorious and great turn in our history. Let me, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Leadership Council and the people of Afghanistan,, express our heartiest sentiments and gratitude to those countries which have helped the Islamic state of Afghanistan from its establishment until today. As far ' as our foreign policy is concerned, we shall endeavor to the best of our ability to promote international peace, respect the UN Charter, universal declaration of Human Rights and other accepted norms of the World Body. We sincerely hope that, in this sensitive hour of our country's history, UN, NAM, OIC and all international organizations will provide our country, particularly the people of Kabul, with urgent emergency,. speedy, generous and vast assistance."
  Basheer-ul-Momencit
                               JULY
             4
 EDITORIAL: "Obligations of the Afghan
 women under existing conditions." Now that' the gloom of infidelity and atheism in our Islamic Afghanistan has been replaced by the Islamic order; the entire Afghan people, men and women shall march ahead in the light of Islamic rays, attained through innumerable sacrifices of the heroic mujaheddin. But the attainment of aspirations and goals does not seem to be so simple. Therefore, under such sensitive moments, it is obligatory on every Afghan, whether old or young man or woman, to unite under the banner of Islam.               .
91
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 REPORT: "Let us get acquainted with the
 educational and training center of "the Muslim Women of Afghanistan." The center was established on 22nd October,
 1989 through untiring efforts of the
 ■Afghan Muslim Women in Peshawar. This center comprises a training unit, publications,     library,    employment
 exchange, kindergarten and a commercial section for weaving and tailoring. The educational unit of this center, while imparting knowledge about the Holy
 Quran, jehadic literature 'and hygienes to the illiterate Afghan women, has rendered valuable services to the deprived section of our community.
      The commercial section offers necessary training in needle-work, knitting as well as machine tailoring. In connection with this centre, a
 branch office was opened in February,
 1990  in Akora Camp. The training course of this center, which was initially for four months, was extended to six months.
 as per request of the students. The publication section of this center publishes          the "Basheer-ul-Momenat,
 quarterly journal                in Pashtu and Dari
 languages. The English edition of the journal was first issued in 1991. The
 "employment exchange" unit, of , this center has been able to find suitable jobs to 160 persons out of 530 registered        women         job-seekers  of this
 uni t.
      The library of this center is packed with Islamic, scientific, literary, political, social, romantic, satire etc. The kindergarten                has been
 established to look after the welfare of the workers' children, students of this center and a number of other Afghan - women. This center is progressing rapidly with additional achievements in all the sections.
 VOL. 5 no. 4
 Burhanul Islam
                              MAY—JULY
 EDITORIAL: "The sensitivity of the
 moment and our obligations". Discussing the post-victory bloody circumstances in the country the editorial writes, "the nation, whose long-bleeding wounds had not healed up yet, is receiving yet another blow today. 0,pr oppressed Muslim nation today are hopeful that the jehad leaders, national figures and the respected religious scholars shall sink all their differences and will gather round a nlegotiating table to resolve their problems peacefully and shall try to apply Islamic doctrines in the war-torn country in an atmosphere of security and tranquility."
 DECLARATION: The Islamic Council of
 Scholars and Judges of the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees, in a declaration pertaining to the current situation in Afghanistan, has called upon both the warring groups to come to terms and stop fighting. The declaration emphasizes the need for peace and explains that any action, which is against Islam and. our national interest,   will threaten  the
 territorial integrity of the country.
 INTERVIEW: Dr. Inayatullah Iblagh, the
 President of the Islamic' Council of Scholars and Judges • of the Afghan mujaheddin and refugees,. in an interview in regard to the establishment, activity and financial resources of , this council observed, "the Islamic Council was established in March, 1983 but began functioning in September the same year. The terms of reference and activities of this council are highlighted every now and then in Burhanul Islam magazine and in keeping with its judicial status it has promoted reformatory measures in all fields and levels. As far as the
92
./UbY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        AfGH/INJIHAO                     VOL. 5 NO. 4
• V  #
financial expenses of the council are concerned I pay for the same from my own salary which I receive from the Kuwait Training Faculty where I am employed as a professor.
    JULY—AUGUST
EDITORIAL: In regard to the change in
obligations and objectives of jehad and mujaheddin the 'editorial writes, "if yesterday the nation expected the jehad leadership and the mujaheddin to keep the jehad bunkers hot, today the same are requested to maintain peace the sooner the better. Likewise if yesterday the jehad leaders were committed to supply armaments and other equipment to the war fronts so that the enemies of Islam be defeated as quickly as possible, today they are committed t<? stop further bloodshed among the Muslims, to activate the movement of Islamic revolution in our country. In this way the present process Will also, 'by the Grace Qf God Almighty, bear fruit similar to the success of our country's preliminary stages of revolution."
INTERVIEW: Dr. Inayatullah Iblagh, the
President of the Islamic Council of Scholars and Judges of Afghanistan's mujaheddin and refugees, in an interview with BBC correspondent, observed, "we do need a constitution but first of all peace and security. should be restored. After the approval of the nation's deputies and the Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd, ■ the constitution resumes legal status. The council has tried to resolve the differences existing among the mujaheddin Readers. I believe the Muslim nation of Afghanistan have always suffered badly because of disunity and the Islamic council wants all the jehad leaders to unite and march ahead hand in hand. A number of the council's members have left for Kabul' to perform spme professional duties there whereas their membership
 of the council will remain intact. Their visit has been approved by the council and their services will be utilized inside the country".
      Hadaf
                                JULY
                                    2
 ESSAYS: One of the essays recieved by
 the Hadaf office says , "those availing themselves of a weak Islamic spirit, ultimately carried out activities collaborating with any party or several atheists thereby harming the Islamic administration. The former brains got involved in this context to such an extent the communist high brass, instead of b^ing brought to task, were recieved in guest halls and were even • presented with cars, whereas poor Muslims and unpopular communists were both deprived of all these favoritism.
    Nourishing the big criminals like; Babrak and his li,kes is an unpardonable act and mujaheddin will not tolerate to see Babrak Karmal still living end enjoying the same social and political status - as if nothing had actuailly happened.
 - A satirical article entitled, "the jrigtit of passage" says, "you will be provided with a 'pass' to move to the royal palace provided you call Stalin by the name of 'great mujahed' or replace Hazrat Khaled bin Waleed by Ceausescu. By' this means your car may be shown into the royal palace.'
   However, the right of passage to a Ministry calls for the guts as big as that of the legendary elephant . pMamoot.'; ' since your very life will be at stake and you are liable to -lose
93 .
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
your honor and your car both. The passage from one end of the city to the other is a problem since you are liable to be confronted with a whiskerless guy and led to a hot bath where you will be skinned alive and your body may go missing for ever. Now the last -prayer is that may God Almighty make the end favorable and safe.
      Hewad
                                JUNE
              23
NEWS ITEMS: Professor Mujaddedi, head
of the Jehad Council and President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan accepted credentials of Amir Usman, the Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, in "Delkusha Palace", 20 June.
    Professor Mujaddedi met . with scholars and jehad commanders of Ghazni province.
   Burhanuddin Rabbani, the president of the Leadership Council in an address to the workers of Jangalak Factory said, "the establishment of Islamic state is not the end but the beginning of our jehad."
     Professor Mujaddedi, in an address to the members of various organizations of Nangarhar province, said, "the singular and basic duty of the Islamic State is the restoration of. complete security in the country."
- Recently a seminar about improving conditions in courts and the facilities therein was inaugurated in Spinghar Hotel of Nangarhar province in which a number of judges and gendarmes participated. Relevant (issues were discussed,in the meeting.
 - To welcome the jehad victory and the
 establishment of the Islamic State of Afghanistan     an     exhibition    of
 photography, drawings and publicity posters was held by Mohammad Ismail, General commanding officer of South West region and governor of Herat province, in the city of Herat. Over one thousand pieces of ar,t were displayed in this exhibition which were viewed by more than 100,000 visitors during a week.
                  24
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Mujaddedi, President
 of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, in a meeting with jehad commanders and scholars of Ghazni province 21 June, discussed the developments in the country as well as obligations of the state and the people's mission.
     Prof. Rabbani, Chairman of the Leadership Council, addressing workers of the Jangalak Factory 8 June said, "with the establishment of the Islamic .state our and your jehad has not ended but has started afresh."
     The Jehad Council, headed by Prof. Mujaddedi, was convened 20 June and a 9-member team was designated to streamline the order and security of the ministries and state buildings and actively take decisions regarding thei-r implementation.      1
 -  Prof. Mujaddedi- in an address to members of various jehad organizations of ' the Nangarhar province observed, "basically the Islamic state is solely and wholly responsible for the maintenance of security throughout the country".
 - A number of books and other academic
 material, were donated by the French Embassy .20 June, to Isteqlal School in Kabul.                                .
 - A seminar comprizing the Nangarhar’
94
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGII/INJ[H/IO            VOL. 5 NO.  4
 prQvince judges and investigators was convened at the Spinghar Hotel at Jalalabad to improve the condition of courts and facilitate the trial procedure.
                   30
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Abdur Rab Rasool
 Sayyaf, member of the Leadership Council, in a press conference held at the Inter-Continental Hotel 28 June observed, "it is incumbant on jehad forces to value the interests of Islaim, the country, and jehad more, than personal interests and holding each others' hands in unity to prevent this oppressed nation to fall again in th$ abyss of miseries. On the other hand they ought to create such conditions to please God Almighty.
   I
    Mohammad Akram Zaki, the chief of Pakistan delegation, on his visit to Kabul in a meeting with Mohammad Siddiq Salguqi, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs 25 June said, "the government and people of Pakistan are helping tpwards the rehabilitation and reconstruction in Afghanistan."
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to the previous
 resolutions , power was formally transferred to Prof. Rabbani, the Chairman of the Leadership Council of Afghanistan 28 June, 1992. After taking over as the President of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, Prof. Rabbani said, "under such trying and sensitive conditions it is not a privilege and distinction to shoulder the responsibilities but a great trial and test to be taken in front of God Almighty and the people of the homeland."
 - . Prof. Sayyaf, member of the Leadership Council,       in a press
 conference at the Inter-Continental Hotel observed 28 June, "jehad forces should prefer the interests of Islam, |
 country and jehad to that of personal *
 interests."
    In a memorandum presented to the Afghan Embassy in Washington, Barazj,l has ■formally recognized the Islamic state of Afghanistan.
 - Ahmad Shah Masood, Defense Minister of Afghanistan, in a meeting with the. people of Baghlan province, discussed the victory and independence of the Islamic state and the participation of jehad commanders and the entire mujahed natibn in this onerous Islamic mission.
                                       JULY
                                            7
 REPORT: In a radio and television
 address 1 July, Prof.’ Rabbani, President of the interim government of Afghanistan said, "the Islamic state is God's governance of fair-play and justice. It abhors discrimination in, any form be it ethnic, tribal, linguistic etc. There, is only one yard-stick for preference of one to the other and that is piety,' and righteousness. I once again call on the entire scholars, scientists, engineers, doctors and the country's specialists to give a helping hand in the reconstruction of their homeland by returning home and, in this historical juncture of the country, carry out their Islamic obligations towards their country and the people. In this way they would have proved their mettle in the national duty of reconstruction of their war-ravaged country."
     In regard to the foreign policy of Afghanistan he said, "our Islamic state supports the promotion of friendly relations with all the countries of the world, particularly our Islamic and neighboring countries, based on equality of rights, mutual respect of independence and national sovereignty, territorial integrity, non-interference
95
 vJULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992  ,       flfflllANJtHAfl             VOL- 5 NO.  4
 in the internal affairs of others and non-employment of force or threat. The Islamic state condemns all forms of interference and aggression and expects that international pledges and commitments be implemented sincerely in accordance with internationally recognized principles of behavior and rights. Our Islamic state upholds the right of the oppressed, people in their struggle for the achievement of peace, freedom, national independence, social rights and self-determination.
                     9
 EDITORIAL:  "Restoration of peace and,
 maintenance of security, the top priorities of our Islamic state". Commenting on Professor Rabbani's. Radio/TV address it concludes, "the address clarifies all the more the different dimensions of political, military, economic, social dnd cultural scenario of future independent, free, Islamic, non-aligned and . sovereign Afghanistan but'the Muslim compatriots should not forget that the application of  these   comprehensive    and all out
 programs call for order, tranquility and maintenance Of peace and Islamic fraternity      among the     people  of
 Afghanistan.
 NEWS ITEMS:  During a meeting between
 Professor Rabbani and Jehad commanders of  Badakhshan Province in Gulkhanah
 Palace 2 July, 1992 in relation to the objectives of Islamic State of Afghanistan, measures for the improvement of the people's living standard and their welfare were discussed and the obligations of jehad commanders under the prevailing conditions were identified.
    Ustad    Abdus Saboor    Fareed, the
 Prime Minister of Islamic State of Afghanistan arrived in Kabul in the afternoon 6 July, 1992;
 EDITORIAL: "Maintenance of peace is the top priority of our obligations in the Islamic State." The editorial, throwing light on Prof. Rabbani's address to the nation regarding his government's programs explains the future guidelines of Afghanistan, which is the harbinger of God tidings of bright future for the oppressed people of Afghanistan who have suffered lot of trials and tribulations coupled with moral and material losses during.the 14 years of the atheist regime. This speech l renders fully practicable, bright and prominent the planned programs in different political, military economical, social and cultural dimensions in future scenario of independent, free, Islamic, non-aligned and sovereign Afghanistan. BUt our muslim compatriots must not forget that the application and realization of these comprehensive programs calls for perfect tranquility, restoration of peace, order and security and Islamic brotherhood among the people of Afghanistan and let us pray for God speed and blessings for the people of Afghanistan and the God-fearing and honest leadership of the country.
                 14
 NEWS ITEMS: Professor Rabbani participated in the obituary ceremony of Hazrat Imam Hussain in Fatimia Qala-e-Fathullah and prayed for the departed soul, 11 July, 1992.
 - Professor Rabbani had a meeting with chiefs, heads and leadership delegation of social organizations and cultural missions of the country in Dilkusha Palace 9 July, 1992 and issued instructions in regard to the activities of social and cultural organizations identifying their duties in accordance with the golden rules of Islamic supreme faith.
                                                             Ustad Fareed, the Prime Minister
                                                    i'
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992            AiGIIANJ[HAfl                VOL-  5 NO. .4
 of Afghanistan, in separate meetings with ' commanders of IIA, JIA and officials of the Ministry of Education said, "under the prevailing conditions our most important duty is to promote understanding and national unity among our people.
    INTERVIEW:  President of the Pension
 Fund, in an interview with Hewad correspondent said, "the Islamic state has taken effective measures, similar to other fields, in payment of pensioners' salaries as well so that they are not deprived of the facilities provided under the prevailing conditions."
 - Dr. Sayyed Amin Fatimi, Secretary Ministry of Public Health, in an interview with Hewad said, "the five year plan of the Ministry of Public Health of Afghanistan has'been prepared in accordance with the principles and standards which guarantee the realization of health objectives for the entire nation. The principles and criteria on which the five year plan is based comply with Islamic and national traditions."
                                               16
 NEWS ITEMS: In a meeting with officials of the Ministry of Education Prof. Rabbani observed, "we will train and educate the children of this soil in such a manner that they shall carry out their obligations and duties with a feeling of accountability to God Almighty and the people".
   A mammoth gathering of commanders and mujaheddin of Nangarhar province convened in the hall of the Military Academy 3 July, 1992 was attended by Prof. Rabbani in which /he . thanked them for their suppprt of the Islamic state of Afghanistan.
 - . Ustad Fareed, the Prime Minister
 of Afghanistan, in his Radio/TV address, while stating the government's policy said, "we all desire that Afghanistan be rescued, an Islamic government be established and peace and security of the people be restored. We should build our society on Islamic principles and devoid of aggression,' excesses, torture, .cruelty, prejudices and linguistic, ethnic, parochial or tribal discriminations. We consider elections as the best means to establish a strong central government, realizing the rights of all nationalities and-, to resolve the organizational problems. We will endeavour to place the entire news media, official newspapers. Radio and Television at the service of the nation and these be utilized to disseminate Islamic teachings and provide moral nourishment. We shall plan accurate economic projects based on Islamic principles, so that Afghanistan is saved from economic crisis and an independent national economy is founded."
                 18
 EDITORIAL:  "We build up the social
 order on the basis of justice and law": The Islamic state of Afghanistan .intends to fill up the power vacuum through drafting a provisional constitution so that social life be maintained through adherence to Islamic teachings. It is understood that 90% of the work on drafting the provisional constitution has already been completed.
   Prof. Rabbani had a meeting with jehad commanders of Paktia and Paktika provinces 14 July during which he emphasized the significance of solidarity between the nation and mujaheddin.
   Prof. Rabbani later met with representatives of Kunar province the
97
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         fiffillllNJ{HAO           VOL.  5 NO. 4
 mmimmmmimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
 same day and asked them to work sincerely towards the promotion of unity and solidarity among the masses, strengthening the foundations of the Islamic government*
                19
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani accepted the
 credentials of Mohammed Hassan Mohiyuddin Najafi, the Iranian ambassador, in "Gulkhana Palace" 16 July.
     Prof. Rabbani received the Leadership Council members' of Badghis province 17 July, 1992 in "Dilkusha palace" and paid tributes to their constructive role in the success of jehad.
 - Ustad Fareed, the Prime Minister of Islamic Afghanistan, had a meeting 16 July at the Gulkhana Palace, with Iranian Ambassador. Bilateral relations in the light of deep rooted cultural and historical links between the peoples of the two countries were discussed during the meeting. The Ambassador expressed his government's readiness to partake in the reconstruction work of Afghanistan.
                22
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof. Rabbani had a meeting with / a number of elders and jehad commanders of district Archi of Kunduz province 18 July and briefed them in regard to the measures taken , by the Islamic state towards restoration of peace and security and asked for unity and solidarity among the jehad commanders so that the government projects could be implemented.
   Prof. Rabbani held a meeting 20 July, with a number of scholars, elders, influential persons an^ jehad commanders of Badakhs'han province in which he said, "under the prevailing
 conditions in the country it is the sacred duty of the entire.cross-section of our nation to maintain unity and solidarity among themselves so that territorial integrity and independence of this war-ravaged country be protected."
 -  Ustad Fareed, the Afghan • Interim
 Premier,   me’t     the    elders of
 Ghazni, Balkh, Parwan and Laghman provinces 18 July and urged them to overcome their present difficulties through complete solidarity and unity.
                  25
 EDITORIAL:- "Unity and peace, the basic conditions for reconstruction." Under this title the editorial says, "the reconstruction work of Afghanistan can effectively be carried out only by the Afghans themselves.. Whoever lives here and claims to be a true 'Afghan', no matter what creed, language or ethnic
 group he may belong to, must collectively join hands, and together exert all-out efforts for the maintenance of peace and security in the country without discrimination or distinction whatsoever."
 NEWS ITEMS: Prof.Rabbani in an. address
 to journalists, gathered at the Store Palace 22 July said, "the press should not be. sacrificed for political motives. From Islamic point of view, journalism is an onerous, serious and responsible duty and at the same time an obligation to be proud of, provided the journalist sends, for publication, a news item after ascertaining its full credibility, value, utility and weighing his own mission in regard to its publicity."
    The Leadership Council, discussed the Kabul city security problems 21 July, 1992.
 -  Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of
98
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 green belts,
 Fareed xn connectxon wxth the security situation and asked him to fully cooperate towards the return of. peace and tranquility to Kabul.
                                              26
 EDITORIAL: "Reforms in education and
 training system under study by the Islamic state": The editorial discusses' the reforms in educational field in the light of the policy announced by the state President and concludes# "the program of educatonal and training reforms is an. important and effective step taken by the government# the implementation is directly connected with restoration of peace and stability in the country. Therefore, it is upto the government officials, security officers# parents# students and the entire Afghan nationals to maintain unity and solidarity among their rank and file so as to be able to realize and implement the reforms programs in the various fields.
 INTERVIEW:7 In regard to the construction of shelters# an official of the Ministry of City Planning and. Construction told Hewad correspondent, "the city and housing authority, which after the jehad victory and long term planning, was up-graded to the status of Ministry# will have to shoulder the onerous responsibility for the entire country. The war# that was forced on us by the aliens, has played havoc with most of our urban as well as rural constructions and has transformed it into a huge heap of rubble. We opine that the Kabul city master plan, designed# made out and drawn without, any consideration for social characteristics# material possibilities and technical feasibility,. cannot account for or respond to the current requirements. In the existing master plan the remaining city areas have been earmarked for multi-storey buildings or
                                              27
EDITORIAL:    "Priorities   must    be
identified minutely." In regard, to one of Prof. Rabbani's statements# the editorial recounts the priorities in these words, "all out restoration of peace and permanent cease-fire# maintenance of adequate communication links with provinces, national unity and solidarity and provision of essential commodities to the people. However# sincere Islamic cooperation between public and private, sectors is the need of the hour and international assistance unavoidable."
ARTICLES:  "The Russian unholy efforts
in Sovietization of Afghan Culture and literature'' by Ummede in which the Russian excesses are exposed. The article explains# "the most dangerous step taken by the communists initially, was to tamper and interfere with educational and training affairs whereby they sent for the so-called soviet 'advisers' and employed them in the Ministry of Education. These 'advisers' played havoc with the academic syllabus by excluding the entire Islamic subjects from the textbooks replacing them by communist, doctrine and ideology. Ninety per cent religious, subjects were taken out of the textbooks and the teaching of political history, communism and sociology was made part of the academic programs.",
     "In the College of Literature the history of Islamic art as a subject was excluded and replaced by Dialectic History, the history of labor movement, Russian history, Russian and Spanish languages. Changes were also made in the College of Judicial Laws and its various departments of: Translation and Commentary of the Holy Quran; Traditions of the Holy Prophet (PBUH); Philosophy and Arabic. The department
99
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992 AfGItANJIHAO            VOL. 5 NO. 4
                               33“
of 'Language and Arabic Literature' was joined to the college of 'Languages' and the department of 'philosophy' to that of Faculty of law. Likewise the study term of the College 'of Medicine was cut down from 7 to 5 years. The Faculty of Engineering was merged with the 'Polytechnic', an institute established by the former Soviet Union earlier."
                                             28
NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Rabbani met a high-
level delegation from Iran, »led by Allauddin Brojerdi, Deputy Foreign Minister, in Gulkhana Palace. During the meeting Rabbani emphasized the development and expansion of bilateral relations and cooperation in different fields between the two countries. In response, Brojerdi promised his country's cooperation with the Islamic state of Afghanistan.
— Abdul Ali Mazari, HWIA Secretary-General, met the high level delegation from Iran in his residence. Similarly, Brojerdi called on Sayyed Sulaiman Gailani, Acting Foreign Minister of Afghanistan at the Foreign Ministry.
                                             29
NEWS ITEMS:  On behalf of Lt. General
Abdul Rashid Dostum# the leader of the Islamic National     Movemement,    , a
delegation led by Major General Mohammed Humayoon Khozai paid a visit to the Hospital of the Academy of Medical Sciences' to enquire after the health of the patients. After conveying Gen. Dostum's good wishes to the patients in the various wards of the hosapital, the patients also received some cash as a present' from the General, who is at the same time the leader of the Islamic National Movement of the north.
EDITORIAL;. "For the sake of the construction of our Common Home" is the the title of the editorial which says, "Afghanistan is the common home of all the Afghans and as such there is no difference, whatsoever, between Pashtun, Tadjek, Uzbek, Hazara, Turkman, Baloch and others. They are all flowers of the same garden with different colors, characteristics and merits.     They    all    share the
responsibility of building and protecting their homeland equally."
COMMUNIQUE:  A joint communique issued
at the end of the visit of the Iranian delegation to Afghanistan 26-28 July and exchanged between the Foreign Ministry of' the Islamic state of Afghanistan and the delegation from the Islamic Republic of Iran states as follows:              .
(1)  Both sides agreed on the creation of a joint committee of Afghan-Iran cooperation to work out the mechanism for further expansion and strengthening of political, economic and cultural relations and present it for approval of the two governments at the earliest.
(2)  Cooperations of border provinces of Afghanistan with border provinces of Iran can be carried out only within the frame work of the joint Afghani stan-Iran committee.
COMMENT:    The existing agreements
between the Afghanistan provinces of Herat and Farah with Khurasan province of Iran to be continued for the time being.
(3)  Both sides agreed in principle on the establishment of a joint small-scale border-markets.
(4)      Both sides agreed that a 100
 . *r
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992  HlullHIllit H Ml                    VOL. 5 NO. 4
 tripartite committee comprizing Iran, Afghanistan and UNO be created very soon so as to facilitate and expedite the repatriation of Afghan refugees from Iran.
 (5) Both sides agreed on the 'necessity for adopting serious and, effective measures to combat the trafficking, production and transportation of illegal drugs and narcotics. , A joint committee may be formed to help mutual cooperation to this end.
 (6)  Regarding health affairs the Islamic Republic of Iran expressed its readiness to train medical cadres of
                              I
 Afghanistan, provide medicines and reconstruct    the hospitals in
 the country.
 (7) In regard to postal and telecommunication services both sides agreed on joint cooperation and Iran expressed its readiness to provide scientific, technical and training facilities in these fields.
     Similarly Iran expressed its feadiness to provide mail-transit and telecommunication channels via Iran to Afghanistan.
                                                                       AUGUST
                   1
 EDITORIAL: "A step forward in the
 direction  of  fraternal and   good
 neighborly relations." The editorial discussing the recent visit of a high-level Iranian delegation to Kabul writes,    "the  Islamic  state   of
 Afghanistan believes in the Islamic principle   of  fraternal and   good
 neighborly relations and cooperation with all the ’countries, particularly the Islamic nations, but at the same time it is firmly of the opinion that these relations must be based on the
 principles of non-interference in the affairs of each other and a desire for further expansion of economic, cultural and commercial cooperations. The government and people of Afghanistan believe that promotion of such cooperations is in the interest of both countries. 11
            ■■ \
 NEWS ITEMS:   Prof.   Rabbani met the
 Professor^ of "Air Defense University" 30 July and urged them to work hard in view of the significance 6f their job.
    The session of the Supreme Council of Ministers was convened 30 July, 1992, presided over by Ustad Fareed, Prime Minister of Afghanistan. The primary requirements of the people were discussed and necessary instructions were issued to the departments concenrned.
                   2
 EDITORIAL: Referring to Prof. Rabbani's call, in his Radio/TV address, on t!he intellectuals and experts to return home the editorial writes, "the war-torn and ravag'ed Afghanistan is in dire need of ideas, suggestions, proposals and actions from its intellectuals. Whether inside or outside the country, for the reconstruction and development. They ought to offer their proposals to this end as sincere Afghans. -They ought to train active cadres of the universities and in the institutes and. departments try to remove those defects, faults and short-comings which are the source of embarrasment and shame for the, Afghans."    /     ,
 NEWS ITEMS: The commission for economic development of Baghlan province held a meeting 30 July and discussed the problems of coal production in the north and the repair-work of the Pul-e-Khumri Silo. Necessary decisions were made in this regard.
101
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 long as there is no peace, no plan for the reconstruction can be achieved.
 NEWS ITEMS:     . Prof. Rabbani, the
 President of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, in a message pertaining to the latest rocketting of Kabul city, has said, ."the Islamic state shall deal decisively with any trouble-maker and sabateur who disturbs peace and life of the citizens."
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992  ’
                    4
 EDITORIAL:   "Islam and work":     The
 editorial dwells on the value of work from Islamic viewpoint, recounts the country's natural resources of wealth and recalling the ' ambition of the so-called friends concludes, "even now if we sit hoping that others will work for us in our reconstruction efforts, then it will be a dream which will never materialize. We' should not be deceived by enemy's lip-service and soft-spoken language. Instead of killing each other it would be much better to renew our bonds of brotherhood as true Muslims and bolster up to build our homeland and put Afghanistan on the road to progress."
 NEWS ITEMS: The commission for creation of the "Assembly of Elders" or the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" council composed of representatives of the various mujaheddin organizations, has completed its work and will soon be submitted to the President's secretariate.
       More than 150    ground- to-ground 
missiles and     mortar    war-heads hit  
sectors I, IV,   VIII,       IX and X of  
Kabul 2 August,  which  left 13  dead and 
97 injured       among    the    civilian 
 population*. of the     city.    Defense 
Minister, vAhmad Shah   Masood,   in this 
 connection,- explained, "it was scheduled that Prime Minister Mohammed Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan will arrive in Kabul on this date. The rockets were fired- on the Kabul international airport from HIA strong-holds in Char Asyab and Butkhak in the sounth and east of' the city.**
                    5
 EDITORIAL: Commenting  on the success
 of the Islamic jehad of Afghanistan, the editorial reminds us that,there are still problems to be tackled before peace can return to the country and as
     Kausar
                                 JULY
            13
 NEWS ITEMS: The leadership Council, in
 a meeting 7 July, 1992 decided to replace Perchami's tri-color flag of black, red and green with that of the tri-color Afghanistan flag of white, green and black along with the holy kalima and Allaho-Akbar (God is Great).
 - Hujjattul Islam Sayyed Mohammed Ali Javed, AIG Planning Minister, told the representative of VOA in Pakistan, after 14 years of war and bloodshed Afghanistan was in dire need of reconstruction.             '
   Ustad Fareed, AIG Prime Minister, announced his government's guidelines 12 July, 1992. After emphasizing the heed for elections he said, "training '■ and cultural programs may be arranged in such a manner so that slogans about "freedom and knowledge" reach the farflung areas of the country. People's education level must be raised. He counted the following as important and necessary factors: (1) Impassioned plea
 for incessant efforts towards unity and cooperation of the people. (2) Minute planning in accordance with Islamic principles so that the basis for united national economy be laid out. (3) To
102
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGHANJ[HA(I              VOL, 5 NO.  4
 fosfrer good relations with friendly and Muslim countries so as to be able to achieve Economic assistance in the fields of agriculture, animal husbandry, industry, trade, reconstruction, transport and tele-communication.
 - According to reports received from Islamic government of Afghanistan a commission, headed by Professor Rabbani has been designated to frame the constitution. It is said that the commission has already started its work, but it has not been mentioned as to how long will it take to finish. Professor  Rabbani  said  that
 constitution making and its framing in the course of his four month office tenure, is included among his priorities.
                          Mujahed Ulus JUNE-JULY
 EDITORIAL: The editorial is critical of the Leadership in Kabul and says, "...after the fall of the Najib regime in Kabul, fighting between the Masood-Dostum forces artd those of Hekmatyar on the one hand, and between the HWIA Shia group (supported by Iran) and, IIA Sayyaf (supported by Saudi Arabia) on the other, have caused the death of hundreds of innocent Kabul citizens. These shameful occurrences have no precedence in the history of the country.” The editorial goes on, "the present blood-bath in Kabul is the direct result of an inefficient leadership who are sitting on the throne like the late 'Shah Shuja* and just watching the events . and, ironically, they are boastihg of their leadership. They prefer the interests of Iran and Pakistan . to their own national interest."
                                               "The time has now come that whoever calls himself an Afghan - from
the former monarch Zaher Shah upto all those involved - to step forward and do something for the salvation of Afghanistan ."
MESSAGE:  The  former King of Afghanis-
tan in his,message to the nation on the occasion of Eid-e-Adha celebrations said, "...at this critical moment the people of Afghanistan are in desperate need of cooperation and understanding among the entire body of the nation without considerations of any discrimination or favoritism, for their national unity. It is the religious and national responsibility of every Afghan, particularly those in power and politics, to curb lawlessness,
disarray, inter-fighting, foreign
                       »
intervention and anti-jehad activities by. all possible means and to pave the way for . a broad-based jirgah with the cooperation of the UN."
INTERVIEW:   In an interview with the
Mujahed Ulus, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA said, "for the settlement of the Afghan problem it is our stance to call an emergency session Qf the Loya Jirgah representing the entire cross-section of the nation. The representatives should include outstanding mujaheddin commanders, elders and dignitaries, whether they are inside the country or in exile, so that they elect any Muslim Afghan as a leader for the interim period." Regarding the former King Gailani said,, he (the King) has always respected the will of the nation in the determination of their destiny. He is a great, personality, Gailani said* wishing the welbeing of the people without desiring any rule for himself. "The present conditions are such that Afghanistan should have a republican system in the future," he said.
ARTICLES:  An article by Mohammad Aziz
Naim reviews the present state of affairs in Kabul and calls on those
103
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
^ -
concerned to make all-out efforts ‘for
the salvation of the country.
    "The; third stage of the April coup" is the title of an article from Dr. Rosta TaraHi in which the present coalition government, in which the Parcham faction has been fully represented, has been termed as the "third phase" of the Saur coup.
    Another article by Dr.. Haqshenas, blames the present government in Kabul for its display of extraordinary sincerity towards the Russian envoy and is desirous of friendly relations. He considers Russia responsible for all the present miseries and sufferings of the Afghans and advises the government toikeep distance from them.
    "Movement for the Establishment of an Elected Government" has expressed pleasure over the fall of communist rule in Afghanistan and has suggested an elected government through the Loya Jirgah or general and free elections.
AUGUST-OCTOBER
EDITORIAL: "Afghanistan Moves towards a Civil War". With this caption the editorial says, "...it is evident from the. latest events in Afghanistan that the alien-imposed leadership failed to fill the political vacuum created by the fall of Najib. Puppet ; leaders trained by Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia have razed Kabul to the ground for the sake of power and for serving the interests of their masters. Instead of Mujaddedi and Rabbani the real power is in the hands of the communists and the KGB hireling, Rashid Dostum. To achieve their goals, these power-thirsty leaders have gone even further by creating rifts among the nation under linguistic, ethnic and religious considerations."
    The editorial adds, "what the
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 miserable situation in the country requires at this stage is the creation of a dynamic national movement before it may be too late."^
 INTERVIEW: The Mujahed Ulus has interviewed a number of wellknown social and political figures which we publish as follows:-
      In answer to the question ho'w they evaluated the present situation in the country and whether due to Iranian and Pakistani interventions the country was moving towards disintegration?
 - Dr. Hamed, a former Deputy Premier: We shall have to accept this bitter reality that the "Islamic government" in its present form is not the result of the free will of our mujahed people but is, probably, the outcome of agreements reached between the mujaheddin leaders and Russians in Moscow last year and possibly through understanding with the host countries of Iran and Pakistan. The condition put in by the Russian side for such an 'Islamic government' was that it should also accomodate the communist elements of the Watan Party. Leader of the delegation upon return from Moscow declared, with utmost certainty, that according to these agreements, there was no need for the UN to seek a political settlement for the Afghan issue. As witnessed in late April this year, instead of the UN political settlement, a military solution through a communist coup was chosen. Unfortunately, Afghanistan'? interest and the right of its people were all ignored. Some of ''the parties in the political game in Afghanistan and their alien co-partners are treating our country as a War-booty and our people aS POWs. In the same manner, in order to reach their unholy objectives, they have resorted to measures like sowing the seeds of dissension and bargaining on national interests in theit drive to earn the' support of foreign nations.
104
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
     Seerat, a former Minister of Justice:    The     political    vacuum,
 throughout Afghanistan in general and Kabul in particular, on the one hand encouraged the former- communist elements to share the political power and leadership and on the.< other has induced foreign intervention in our affairs more than ever in the past. Unfortunately, we hear that foreign political and armed personnel have jdauntlessly infiltrated the ranks of ithe armed groups inside Afghanistan and i are playing their due roles in every inter-Afghan armed conflicts. The only i side which has been kept outside the events taking place in Afghanistan, and which is watching the situation with deep concern and apprehension of losing
 the national unity and integrity of Afghanistan, is the Muslim and crusading nation.
    Aziz Naim:    Lack of coordination
 between the well-known mujaheddin groups in the. past, their confrontation against one another - even at the time they were fighting a common enemy -their inefficiency in the affairs of the AIG in Peshawar and the scale of their obedience of the host countries do not leave any room for . being optimistic about the future. The country is rapidly moving towards an unidentified and obscure future. Border provinces are signing economic, cultural and other contracts with neighboring countries without the consent of the central government. The Islamic Republic of Iran violates the Afghan air-space under the cover of humanitarian aid and without legal permission Of the central government; Pakistani advisers under Gen. Hamid; Gul, the former I.S.I. Chief, are; reorganizing the so-called Afghan army. There is no doubt at all that our people** know what exactly all i.these 'contracts', these 'violations' and these 'reorganizations' mean.
 - Ghulam Ali Ayeen, a former governor:
 There is plenty talk these days about foreign interventions in Afghanistan. History gives the right to blame the foreigners, rightly or wrongly, for all our national problems. "But whenevr the foreigners have come with an axe, the Afghans themselves have provided the handle for it." It is for this reason that we should seek the real causes of the present deadlock among the Afghans and- inside Afghanistan. Unfortunately, the present situation is going to aggravate to the extent that it would lead to Afghanistan's eventual split.
 -  D.r. Rosta, another prominent figure:
 The planners of the third phase of the communist     coup     were actually
 endeavoring to bring the power step-by-step within the framework of a broader coalition among the Parcham, the Setam, JIA, DostUm and HWIA. The change of the ideological’ war to a racial conflict, with Parcham faction at the core of the whole affair, will gradually bring the ^present government in Kabul under the political and military domination of Iran. Inside the country another powerful coalition, outside the jurisdiction of the enemies of Afghanistan's sovereignty, is just taking shape. This coalition will, after long conflicts with the dissenters, take the situation under' control. Afghanistan's integrity will
 be saved with the price of its foreign dependecy - a dependency which may not last for long.
 -  Abdul Hameed Mubarez, former Chief of„Bakhtar News Agency: Iran's claim as a custodian of the Shia community in Afghanistan and its demand for their political rights, is an obvious intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. It is the natural right of the people of Afghanistan to stand against it and demand the rights of the Baloctiies, the Kurds, the Turks as well as the Sunni community in Iran. If these trends continue Iran, Pakistan
105
 JULY-SEPTEMBER» 1992
 and Afghanistan will all suffer equally. The people of Afghanistan, with a long history of co-existence, are going to foil the conspiracy and emerge victorious at the end, but Pakistan in the first place and Iran to follow suit, will fall prey to their own trap.
 - Dr. Kakar: The neighboring countries are neither willing nor can jeopardise Afghanistan's welbeing but, no doubt* each of them is trying to dominate the Kabul government. They are not going to invade Afghanistan, as the former Soviet Union did, but at any rate the government of Pakistan and the ISI are both bent upon achieving their specific aims in Afghanistan under the cover of friendship and Islamic brotherhood. It is for this reason ‘ that they established the government in Kabul, similar to the former Soviet Union wishes to launch programs in Afghanistan so as to expose territoria] integrity of the country to fresh dangers.
   Dr. Tezai:   On the one hand, many
 of the players of the present political game in Afghanistan are determined to gain political power by whatever means possible, and on the other achieving this end without the satisfaction of their benefactors seems also to be impossible. So they try to reach their aim and that of their benefactors even by compromising on the country's territorial integrity.
    The second question asked by the Mujahed Ulus from the same persons was whether, in their opinion, Kabul was threatened by another coup?
 - _ Dr. Hamed: What kind of a coup?
 Fighting is going on between rival groups which do not consider the other side to be even a matching opponent to them.
 - Seerat said, that a coup in Kabul
VOL- 5 NO- 4
 was not the only threat.
 -  Aziz Naim said, Kabul was under the threat of a coup right at this moment. It was through the coup of the "Northern Coalition" that the Islamic government, already in Kabul then, came to power (as they put it). The second phase of the same coup came to pass by the "change in Leadership" inside the presidential palace. Struggle for the drafting, of an unjustifiable constitution, at this stage, is in fact another act of a coup which gave the present leadership a "legal flavoring". I doubt it if the leflists, though active behind the scenes and sharing power with the so-called "government", will be thinking of any coup in their favor.at this stage.
 -  Ayeen considered chances of a coup very dim and thought that' the remnants of the communists will not dare it.
 -  Dr. Rosta thought that a militia confederation was currently ruling in Kabul with each group in control of a district in th$ city. He did not think there was an organized military power in Kabul to do this.
    Mubarez considered the political, economic, social and psychological conditions in Kabul just conducive for a coup and said that army generals, in collaboration with some mujaheddin commanders, would take a military action and would put an end to the rule of the rightist and leftist parties and will also stop foreign intervention in the country.
 -  Dr. Kakar thought that because of the absence of a legal government in Kabul> a coup was most probable.
 -  Dr. Tezai argued that there was no organized force in Kabul right now and, therefore, there was little chance of a coup in the near future.
 10(>
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO- 4
      The next Mujahed Ulus question was:  In a declaration published in
 Arabic in 1991, Prof. Rabbani had made a strong commitment that there would be no role for the communists, the Westerners or the apostates in the future Islamic government and strongly rejcted a coalition government too. Though in the present government most of . the things, banned in Prof. Rabbani's published declaration, are present (including participation of communists and apostates), he has also delegated a commission to draft a constitution and has called upon the so-called 'Westerners V to assist to this end. How do you- explain these contradictions on his part?
 - Dr. Hamed has put it as ' V thirst for power". Seerat termed the opposition to the constitution as an error in the translated text from Arabic and expressed his sorrow, saying that the signitories to the alliance were already fighting each other.
    Aziz Naim pointed to a list of many contradictions by Prof. Rabbani. Ayeen found some positive and negative ' points. Dr. Rosta thought the jehad, Islam* faith .and religion of such persons to be a part of their political-objectives.      1                  ,
    Mubarez praised the government decision and said it was encouraging the intelleqtuals to partake in the country's affairs. Dr. Kakar, however, thought it was for obtaining and upholding      power   as well as
 contradictory , to the principles of Afghan nationalism, national independence and sovereignty. Dr. Tezai considered Rabbani to be "stripped" of power with true power being in the hands of Karmal and his friends.
 INTERVIEW:  Mohammad  Zaher Shah; the
 ex-Afghan monarch, in an interview regarding the present situation in the
 country has said, "after 14 years of jehad and sacrifice the Afghan Muslim nation was hopeful to having had their difficult years behind them and to begin the new phase of their life in' total peace and tranquility. It is very, unfortunate, however, that the senseless war is raged between rival groups who associate themselves with the sacred, names of Islam and jehad. The fratricidal war, which threatens the very existence of Afghanistan, will not end in the victory for any particular organization but its repercussions, are going to be irreparable."
      He went on, "instigations founded on religious, ethnic, linguistic and regional considerations are harmful to national unity and political integrity of Afghanistan. I, as a long-standing servant of my country, should like to appeal to all the sides, involved in the useless but devastating hostilities in Kabul, to end the fightipg immediately and instead of utilizing modern arms in killing their fellow humans, to resort to their common, sense and give a chance to the * nation to breathe - a nation which supported and assisted the mujaheddin in their struggle against the Word Power. Let ' them save- all their strength for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of their ruined home, Afghanistan."
 EDITORIAL: "Our Islamic revolutioin and Culture"     Discussing    the start,
 duration and success ©f our jehad the editorial concludes, "our nation is to a . great extent efficient and
107
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 seasoned as far as military affairs and war are concerned and now it is high time they turned their attention to culture and books. We call upon all the honorable scholars, writers, literary Islamic revolutionary and epical poets to take big stride^ forward in promoting the nation's stability and survival. They ought to bring their nation and country at par with other developed countries and deliver them from all these misfortunes and miseries."
 NEWS ITEMS.: The Nangarhar Jehad Council* held meetings 27,  28 June with Haji
 Abdul Qadeer, the president of the council, in the chair. Measures were adopted in these meetings regarding the security of the ICabul-Jalalabad highway .
                                        JULY
                   5
 EDITORIAL:  "Time waits for -no one"
 Discussing the importance and value of time the editorial calls on the founders, leaders and pioneers of the Islamic revolution as well as on the well-wishers and sympathizers of this mujahed nation to seek the cure for the ailments of the nation, thus bringing to an end their miseries and sufferings.
 NEWS ITEMS: In a meeting of Nangarhar
 Jehad Council ,5 July, 199,2 political developments, military and security situation of Nangarhar and other issues were    discussed    and    necessary
 resolutions passed.
 - A professional seminar at "Bayazeed Roshan University" was convened in which some members of ' the Jehad Council, professors and students of the university participated. The seminar discussed the duties and obligations
 of all towards the realization of the Islamic jehad aspirations. The seminar lasted for two days.
                  14
 EDITORIAL:  "The Islamic state's first
 Prime Minister brought peace and prosperity with him as a gift to Kabul citizens." The editorial says, "the HIA considers sending, of Ustad Fareed to' Kabul as a good gesture towards the unity of mujaheddin and hopes that with unity among jehad organizations and maintenance of Islamic discipline in Kabul, peace and security will be restored and the valiant mujaheddin, backed by Kabul citizens, shall be able - to eliminate the remnants, of the communist regime, who are acting as a • stumbling block in the \way of Islamic revolution.
 INTERVIEW:  Haji Sana Gul, Chief of
 Nangarhar Food Procurement Department, in an interview with daily Nangarhar said, "we intend to distribute' a total of 26,000 coupons among employees and workers of Nangarhar province and our representative has already left for Kabul to supply the coupons. Humanitarian organizations have provided us with assistance amounting to a total of 1,200 tons of wheat. Out of this amount, 400 tons have been transported to Nangarhar so far which we have already distributed among 700 coupon-holders according to a special quota. The remaining 800 tons of wheat will also reach Nangarhar soon and will be distributed likewise."
                                                 16
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial writes, "the
 Islamic .revolution, by. the Grace of God Almighty, succeeded in our country end now it is up to all the valiant and considerate mujaheddin and Muslims of the homeland to promote this Islamic revolution honestly and sincerely. The world has- taken big strides in the
108
JULY-SEPTIMBER. 1992         AffltiANJfH/IO            VOL. 5 NO.  4
 direction of progress and development but we are not in a position even to produce a pill for the sick let alone productive factories and industries. Everything has collapsed and stopped working. Let us wipe off the tears of those in our country who are crying, fulfil the nation's desires, bring this country at par with other' countries of the world and lead our caravan to the desired destination.
 INTERVIEW: The honorable Asadullah Riha in-charge of emergency aid hospital for the mujaheddin, in an interview with the correspondent of, the daily Nangarhar about the hospital's services said, "the emergency assistances hospital, which has been buil^t with Norwegian assistance, in the post Islamic revolution victory, has distributed medicine worth 27,500,000 afghanis and has transferred 350 seriously wounded patients . for emergency operation to Peshawar."
 NEWS ITEMS: Dr. Ahmed Sauosi, President of Kuwait Red Crescent and his colleagues, after meeting with the head of the Nangarhar Jehad Council, said that a workshop for the production of artificial limbs for the benefit of the war-disabled, would be set up in Jalalabad - against a total cost of Rs . ,60 million.
                           Rastgoyan
                            AUGUST
              20
EDITORIAL: "Street-battles" is the
captiQn of the editorial which says, "a few days ago peace and tranquility of Kabul city were again disturbed by the roar of machine-gun fire and rocket explosions. Everyone knows now that this kind of battle is, in fact, a , concoction of Fascist foreign
 intervention. Meanwhile, . NLFA was always of the opinion that the followers . of Hanafi and Ja'fari doctrines have lived together like brothers in Afghanistan from times immemorial. The great races of Uzbek, Tadjek, Hazara, Pashtun, Nooristani, Baloch and others have got on together without any difficulty or problem in complete harmony for thousands of years. Now that the Fascists, parochialists, racists and the alien cronies stand unmasked in front of the entire nation, therefore, this time too the imperialistic machinations, - God
 willing, are doomed and bound to fail.
                      \
 The only possible and - reasonable way that can save us from forcible and unwise clashes is to acknowledge the realities. In other words the religions, races, tribes and languages which used to be in vogue in Afghanistan and still exist, ought to remain as such. To enforce or thrust upon the people forcibly any kind of fresh topic is impossible and all the people of Afghanistan, to whatever race or tribe they may , belong, should be given due share in the administration.
 REPORT: Under the heading of "a picture of Kabul city" it explains the battles, during the later part of July and the beginning of August, and after recalling the fightings at the airport, Tapa Bibi Mahro, Tapa Maranjan, Balahisar, the Presidential-^Palace and the TV Station writes, "the battle is more extensive than what meets the eyes. Apart from the fact that many important government establishments were hit directly, private homes were ransacked and the owners were arrested by the opponents and executed by very brutal means seldom witnessed by humanity."
      The report concludes, "in short the city of Kabul turned into a wailing den and death .house and the people with bare feet and tattered clothes were
109
 vJUL Y-SEPTEMBER, 1992
seen running for their lives towards Torkham, Charikar, Kabul suburbs and country side or wandering in fields, valleys, open grounds and lying under the shelter of big rocks, trees, hills and at the foot of mountains."
  Shahadat
                            JUNE
            23
EDITORIAL: The editorial discussing the unwillingness on the part of Mujaddedi to hand over the power on schedule states, "the fact that Perchamis were appointed, in various sensitive military posts as generals and ministers or were made members of the leadership council, indicates that Mujaddedi wanted to form a common front comprising the pro-westerners and communists, patronized by the US. Therefore, Kabul citizens are, undoubtedly, expecting a great tragedy masterminded by Mujaddedi and the remnants of communism.
REPORT: In an address to the people of
Paktia province in Gardaiz 20 May, Eng. Hekmatyar observed, "we will continue our Jehad till an Islamic government is established. We want such an elected Islamic government wherein Sunnis, Shias, .Uzbeks, Tadjeks, Hazaras and Pashtuns enjoy equal rights. Mujaddedi is totally powerless and even now the communists are ruling in Kabul since mujaheddin are being disarmed in Kabul whereas the communists are being armed."
  In a press interview 22 June, 1992 Engineer Hekmatyar said, "some of the mujaheddin groups dismantel and cut the tanks and military hardware into pieces and sell' them . in Pakistan markets as scrap metal. The armaments
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 and tanks at the disposal^ of these groups are the property of Afghanistan government and are not to* be destroyed or disposed of." He called for the upkeep and maintenance of the entire national and public property so that the future Afghan government could repair and reconstruct it. He added, the HI A would avail itself of all the means to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan and should, by the Grace of God Almighty, contain any step taken in the wrong direction. "We shall defend the territorial integrity, national interests and unity • of Afghanistan at all costs and shall restore, with trust in God Almighty, peace, progress . and prosperity in Afghanistan," he said.
                 24
 EDITORIAL:   "The ambiguity in power y
 transition or moments of political explosion."     Calling     Mujaddedi's
 insistance on convening of the grand assembly (Loya Jirgah) an excuse for his continuity of power, the editorial concludes that undaunted mujaheddin shall not lay their arms short of the establishment of an Islamic government.
 DECLARATION: HIA in a declaration has
 stated, "the HIA can assure their compatriots that they are trying to bring peace and prosperity to all the Muslim nation and to protect life, property and honor of the people and do not want that Afghanistan be turned into another Lebanon. The HIA is against fighting in Afghanistan and is trying very hard to contain any attack on Kabul.
     If aimless musketeers do not stop persecuting and torturing the innocent citizens of Kabul and continue their attack on life, property and honor of the people, then the HIA shall carry out their Islamic obligation of defending the life, property and honor of the oppressed and if they (.the HIA)
110
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO- 4
 are forced to , fight, the targets of their raging fire will be important military bases and other prominent ins tal latiojis. But, street fighting shall be avoided strictly so that the peace of the noble people of Kabul is not disturbed and they are not victimized. "
 NEWS ITEMS:     Rashid Dostfim, the
 commander of the northern militia force, says that he does not favor the grand assembly (Loya Jirgah) to solve the Afghanistan future problem. In an address to newsmen in Sheberghan, he spoke of his opposition to the Loya Jirgah which is strongly recommended by Mujaddedi, Gailani and some others.
    The majority of commanders and mujaheddin, aligned to Rasul Akhundzada in Helmand province, who had got fed up with his continuity of internal fights, rose up and joined the forces of other organizations and militia's personnel commanded by Atta Noor and consequently occupied the Moosa Qala district, AJchundzada ' s original center.
    Mawlawi Shamsur Rahman Danishyar, the chief of Laghman province Jehad Council, in an interview with Shahadat said, "unless all the atheists are ousted from the government, the mujaheddin shall not lay their arms."
                   28
 EDITORIAL:    The editorial considers
 the following as responsible factprs for the untoward conditions:
 (1) The heads of commuinist party and
 the armed personnel of the defunct regime who are still in power.
 (2) The ambitions of some parties to power and their joining in bargains and coalitions outside the mujaheddin's ring.
 (3)  The parties who sat togethger and planned the team for power-transition and approved it.
 (4)  The stances of the neighbors cannot■ be completely ruled out in the current situation in Afghanistan.
 (5)   Considerations of the super powers and the infidel circles' who have stood up, from the very outset, against the Islamic jehad are effective too.
 NEWS ITEMS:     Prime Minister Nawaz
 Sharif of Pakistan has said, "Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has given the assurance that he will relinquish power 28 June, 1992" .
 - A number of .sabateurs fired rockets 25 June, , 1992 on Shamshato and Nusrat Maina Camps.
 - In a clash between the HWIA and the Supervisory Council a- number of people were killed.
 - Mawlawi Haqqani said, "if Mujaddedi is reluctant to handover the power peacefully, bloodshed will be unavoidable."
                                                 30
 EDITORIAL:   "Change in leadership,
 wishes and speculations", is the title of the editorial which discusses the power transition from Prof. Mujaddedi to Prof. Rabbani and asks the Leadership Council to make amends for the past events and the:?r repetition should be avoided. But to pave the way for elections it would < not be so easy either.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Engineer Hekmatyar, in an
 interview with BBC correspondent in one of HI A bases at Char Asyab of Kabul observed 28 June, 1992, "we 'want the expulsion of the entire armed forces from Kabul. I guess that it is only by
111
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        {MANJtHflO                VOL.  5 NO. 4
 name that power is being transferred to Prof.Rabbani. Mujaheddin shall permit nobody to disintegrate the country. Najib and Babrak Karmal both are national traitors and they ought to be put on trial."
    In a press conference near Kabul 28 June Hekmatyar said, "based on the Peshawar Accord and in case of peace restoration in Kabul, Prof. Fareed is taking over as Prime Minister ' of Afghanistan. Restoration of peace and security and the establishment of art Islamic government in the country, through free and fair elections, are on top of the HIA programs."
     Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, President of the interim mujaheddin government, handed over power to the Leadership Council 28 June, 1992 which was consequently entrusted, according to the Peshawar Accord, to Prof. Rabbani, leader of the JIA.
 - Mawlawi Jalaluddin Haqqani, in an interview with BBC, called on Prof. Rabbani; to purify the government from the remnants of former communist government.
                                        JULY
                                             2
 NEWS ITEMS:  .Prof. Rabbani, who took
 over as President of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, in a Session 28 J.une,. declared the internal and external policies of the Islamic state. ■
 - Qazi Hussain Ahmed, in a message congratulated Prof. Rabbani on assuming his new office and called for a genuine Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    In a clash between militias and mujaheddin of .Kandahar 6 persons were
killed. The clash took place when Gelam Jam militias tried to disarm a number of Kandahar mujaheddin on Maiwand Watt, but the mujaheddin of Kandahar ; taking the act as an insult confronted them.
ARTICLES: "Make good the latest errors" by Sayyed Allamuddin Aseer discusses the state's blunders in the-post-Najib era.
                                                5
NEWS. ITEMS: According to ANA Professor Abdus Saboqr Fareed, the Prime Minister of Afghanistan will reach Kabul 4 July, 1992 to assume his office.
-According to ANA the interim Islamic government of Afghanistan had started the expulsion operation of armed forces from Kabul city which is continuing till now.
   Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the President of mujaheddin transitional council; * in an interview with Nawa-e-Waqt has said, "the attack on my plane is not the work of Hekmatyar but planned by my friends".
                  7
EDITORIAL:  The editorial says that the
"operation clean-up", which has been launched in Kabul for clearing the city from the presence of armed groups, will be useful for restoration of peace and security. However, prior to initiating this process the state presidency should have tackled other problems which are the roots to the Causes of all hardships. In the first place the state presidency ought to have completed the composition of the government which is a combinateion of the entire mujahed groups. Secondly prior to vacating the houses and offices by the armed personnel, an organized, forceful and committed army should have been constituted,
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO- 4
 recommended by the leaders of all the jehad groups. This army, forming the joint forces of the entire organizations, would have filled up the space vacated by the expelled groups. What gathers one from the latest action of the state is that the Defence Ministry, presently combination of a special organization, taking advantage of the excuse of "operation clean-up" wants to expell all the other groups from the city and itself occupy the Pi ace thus vacated.
 NEWS ITEMS:  Prof. Abdus  Saboor Fareed,
 the Prime Minister of Afghanistan, accompanied by about 800 armed .mujaheddin of "Alsubh Front" and thousands of committed personnel of HIA from other areas, left the Kohistan district of Parwan Province' for Kabul. About 2 P.M. the caravan reached the Khairkhana Pass Where he was welcomed by Ministers, Chieftains, jehad organizations* cadres, commanders and thousands of Kabul . citizens and it was about evening, when the caravan reached the Prime Minister's Palace.
    Qutbuddin Hilal, the President of the HIA Political Committee, in an interview with BBC said, "security vacuum in Kabul must be filled up by mujaheddin".
    HIA has severely condemned the latest rocket attacks on residential areas of Kabul, resulting in death and injury to a great number of Muslim citizens, and has called it the work of criminal elements and the opportunists.
                        9
 INTERVIEW:  In  an  interview  with  the
 Bakhtar News Agency correspondent Eng. Hekmatyar observed, "I should have been present in the reception for Prof. Fareed but due to certain reasons I did not attend. For the sake of sewing the people, for the sake of safety of Kabul city and in order to
 contain brutality and cruelty against its people I chose to remain out. We cannot accept separate armies for Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan. There ought to be a singular powerful government in the whole of Afghanistan so that security can. be restored. My message to Kabul citizens is:       rest
 assured a few problems that remain shall be resolved too and God willing perfect peace shall prevail."
 DECLARATION:  In a statement regarding
 the exchange of prisoners HIA has said that it was ready to carry out direct talks with the leaders of Tadjekistan and Uzbekistan about the exchange of prisoners, so that in this way Hazrat Mohammad Ibrahim Mujaddedi, Hazrat Mohammad Ismail Mujaddedi and his entire family along with the rest of prisoners could be released shortly. In this context HIA is awaiting the response from the leaders of the newly independent states of central Asia so that the entire Afghan prisoners could be released.
         12
 NEWS ITEMS:   The leadership council
 convened a session in Kabul city 9 July, 1992 and   agreed on the following
 issues:   (1)    whereas  the   Islamic
 Republic of Iran, without notifying the Afghan government, has • opened her consulates in the centers of Balkh, Faryab and Nimroze provinces, therefore a protest note to Iranian Embassy may be written        wanting  the   Iranian
 government to     close their  consular
 offices. (2) It was decided that a mission be identified to facilitate the return of refugees and (3) it was decided that the Polytechnic Institute continue its work as before.
        14
 EDITORIAL:   "From a junior towards
 a senior jehad." The editorial; says, the Afghan jehad marched onward towards
 113
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         fliCIIANJIHAD     ■  ,    VOL- 5 NO.  4
 victory at such a sensitive juncture that the Red Imperialism, as a result of its epoc making efforts, was doomed and wiped out. The universal ideo"-logical arena has been evacuated for the Muslim world. ’Communism to whose false promises the oppressed world would gather, has become part of the history museum (the historical archives). The American capitalism which was earlier defeated by communism, no longer finds any rival in the world and presently, for filling up of this ideological vacuum, there remains only the holy religion of Islam which can truly deal with it.
 EDITORIAL:  Complaining  about lack of.
 assistance from Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia the editorial says, "it is known t„o all that in case our country receives the required assistance Afghanistan will soon stand on her legs and will not be needing long term, assistance. Since the presence of millions of acres of agricultural land the existence of mines and natural resources are sufficient guarantee for the economical prosperity of Afghanistan and naturally our country shall soon march on the road to progress, and that will benefit not : only us but the neighboring and friendly countries can also reap dividends. But presently, with our country struggling helplessly with shortage of foodstuff and fuel, _it does not behove the neighbors and Islamic countries to remain as mere spectators, because in case of turmoil and disorder, God forbid, its detrimental effects will not be confined to Afghanistan only but- shall engulf the neighbors and the entire region as well; and those waiting to bargain will be hit adversely. Therefore, it is incumbent on the neighboring and friendly countries to make available emergency aid td the Muslim Afghanistan as soon as possible so that it could cope with severe
 shortages of food supplies."
                                                19
 EDITORIAL:   "The world complicity to
 break up the Muslim govt." The editorial opines that after the defeat of communism at the hands of the mujaheddin, the Western Imperialism has come to the conclusion that it is only Islam and the Muslims who can restrain the unbridled western capitalism. The Zionists are also bent upon identifying Islam and the Muslims with a race of plunderers and barbarians, therefore we ought to know that the •world Imperialism is counting moments to block the revolution and it is presumed that disorder and agitation in Kabul is created deliberatly in order to pave the way for the induction of their army into the country, ostensibly in the name of peace-keeping force, to stop ,the establishment of an Islamic government. Now it is up to .the mujaheddin to see through the game and carry out their final obligation.
 REPORT:   Prof. Fareed, the Prime
 Minister of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, in a press conference told the local and foreign journalists, "we are confident that, God willing, once the additional forces and surplus personnel who had assembled in Kabul from far-flung areas are out, security of Kabul will be restored. A powerful Islamic government shall be established in Afghanistan which will be helpful not only to itself but for the neighboring countries too and will not be a party to any military pacts".
 NEWS ITEMS:  The caravan of .Nangarhar
 Jehad Council of mujaheddin, commanded by Haji Abdul Qadeer, the governor of Nangarhar, on its way to Kabul        in
 order to congratulate Prof. Rabbani and Ustad Fareed for assuming their respective posts as President and Prime Minister of Afghanistan,• were intercepted by militia forces 17 July.
114
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 A severe clash ensued resulting in martyrdom of one mujahed and the death of, 5 -militias. The mujaheddin caravan returned to Jalalabad in protest.
 EDITORIAL:    The v. editorial says,
 "Security, reconstruction, the foundation of sound administration and army in the country are primary and vital requirements of the war-torn Afghanistan and our oppressed people. The realization of this requirement is one of the basic obligations of the Islamic government of Afghanistan. Yes, these requirements can materialize only when- all the jehad organizations and the entire body of the nation, whether ' Uzbek, Hazara, Tadjek, Pashtun or Baluch, leave aside all the differences and prejudices and get together without seeking any favors or distinctions.
 REPORT:  ANA reports that hundreds of
 people were killed or wounded during severe clashes in Kabul city.
 NEWS ITEMS: In an interview with IAP 20 July, 1992 Mawlawi Khales regarding the outbreak of the recent fighting in Kabul said, "I consider the attack on 11A as an attack on my own organization". He added that the HWIA was . behaing all the troubles in the city.
     Sayyed Mohammad Pahlawan, an IIA commander, in an interview with VOA, said, "the entire Afghan communists ought to be discharged from work and brought to task." -
    According to ANA, Dostum militias resumed their attacks on IIA positions at Bini Hessar and Qalacha with heavy weapons 20 July.
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
                                   AUGUST
                                             2
 EDITORIAL:  "Friends' bow and intransi-
 gence of the coiiimunist regime remnants":   Despite the agreement
 between the -HIA heads and those of JIA on the expulsion of militia forces from Kabul no action has so far been taken by the interim government. On the contrary the militias' commanders are not only unwilling to reduce or oust their forces from Kabul but are adding to their number every day.
      It must be forcefully declared that no power, no matter how strong and gigantic, can check or contain the advancement of Islamic revolution. We witnessed that a super power, after 14 years of fighting with Muslim mujaheddin, failed to bring them to their knees or surrender; it must prove a bitter lesson for the remaining communists not to indulge in any futile exercise. It is also incumbent on the Islami leadership, that by bowing and providing    opportunities, not. to
 complicate conditions and create bottle-neCks in the way of country's stability and solidarity.
 REPORT: Ustad Qaribur#Rahman Sayyed,
 Chief of the Interim Prime Minister's Press Department, who has come to Peshawar said, "the danger of a destructive  war in Kabul  is being
 apprehended all the more with every
 passing day. Twenty-six thousand militias have come down to Kabul from the north. No one feels secure. The dark clouds of war are looming large over the horizon of this city. Some are returning to their homeland but others are migrating. Presently a senior official  of Najib's era has
 occupied a guest hall of Prime Ministry. This official is none other than Mahmood Baryalai, favored by Ahmad
115
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992      AfGIIANJ[HAO                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
  Shah Masood."
                     4
  EDITORIAL: The  editotial says that the
  Kabul city was again the scene of bloody clashes between the rival groups August 3 and 4. According to HIA media, confirmed by Kabul Radio, during these clashes tens of Kabul citizens were killed and wounded.
       It goes without saying that the communist regime remnants cannot, bear the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and are deftly trying to create trouble and disunity among the mujaheddin rank and file, thereby ridiculing the first nucleus of Islamic state and identifying mujaheddin as an incompetent lot. Now this is up to the state personnel to be prudent and wide awake to the enemy's satanic plans and ought to frustrate the ominous designs of the communist ramps.
  NEWS ITEMS:   Mawlawi Mohammad   Younus v
  Khales, HIA leader, has declared that due to certain reasons and differences with the ' prevalent situation he has suspended his membership of the Leadership Council. In an interview with the VOA he said, after conferring with Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood in Kafcipl for a complete week he came to Peshawar 31 July, 1992 and declared his decision.
     Najibullah Mujaddedi resigned as Public Health Minister and in an interview with the BBC said that the present leadership directly interfered in public health affairs.
                     6
  EDITORIAL:  The editorial says, "our
  mujahed compatriots know well that lately the HIA Mujaheddin were attacked by the' militias without any reason. These are the militias who have committed’ hundreds of heinous crimes
 including plunder, rioting, disturbing public peace and security, murders of the innocent, and dishonoring women etc. Investigations by the Mediation Committee revealed that apart from other crimes, this responsibility was also squarely placed on the shoulders of these, communist remnants. But despite that, Radio~Kabul, quoting the spiteful state President and Defence Minister, put the blame on the HIA mujaheddin.
 NEWS ITEMS:     HIA . Directorate of
 Information had released a letter, 5 August, 1992 to the Shahadat office, of an Afghan named Akhtar Mohammed S/o Khair Mohammed resident of Logar province who was captured in 1978 by the regime of Hafizullah Amin and then transferred to the Soviet Union. The gist of the letter runs as. follows:
      "We, your brethren, who were imprisoned during the traitor Hafizullah Amin's period in 1978 and later transferred to the Soviet Union, are still working, as criminals without salary, in this "glass factory" and we are in all 1,500 persons and, by the Grace of God Almighty, alive and sound. We hope that any Muslim, after going through this letter, , will go to the Soviet Embassy and inquire about us."
                                              23
 EDITORIAL:      Asking whether the
 prevailing situation in the country was the price we had to pay for the sacred blood of 1.5 million martyrs, the editorial writes, "if any mujahed be asked why he joined the Holy War? The answer will invariably be to topple the atheistic regime in Afghanistan and to replace it by a genuine Islamic government. But today despite the fact that the communists are toppled and the government is that of mujaheddin, the Islamic government is unstable. But how do our leaders account for the conditions in Kabul? Is there anybody
juLy-september, 1992
 responsible for these circumstances?"
      "We request our leaders that for goodness sake leave aside ambition and power-seeking, come down.to earth, look at people and for the sake of people's liberation and the nation's safety from hardships and troubles uniteand get together. Trust in each other, see the^ writing on the wall and remember the resurrection day."         x
 NEWS ITEMS:  According to Radio Kabul
 the bloody clashes in the city, lasting several days, left hundreds in dead or wounded. Many houses were destroyed and. hundreds from each side were arrested. A permanent ceasefire was agreed upon 21 July.
 - Eng Ayyoub, the Minister for Reconstruction in the Islamic interim government of Afghanistan, along with his delegation met with Haji Bilour, Pakistan Federal Minister for Railways in Islamabad. They discussed the construction of a railway line between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
                   25
 EDITORIAL: The  editorial is entitled,
 "our jehad achievements in political field" in which it says, "the Islam and jehad annals will never forget the betrayal of 1.5 million martyrs' blood in Afghanistan and the intrigues which led the Islamic revolution to the interior of Kabul. It"is surprizing the way a tiny group dare cheat the vigilant and sacrificing nation and conduct the Islamic revolution through fraudulent channel of complicity.
     HIA plan based on sorting out a corner for itself was also part of those' intrigues but when the party (HIA) sent its premier to Kabul the enemies' desire was shattered. Although it was known to One .and all that in case of the treacherous Jabul Saraj
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 coalition and pledge the cooperation of HIA with the communists was just impossible but the best part was that HIA was absolved of the allegation that it preferred' war to p.eace and finally the valiant mujaheddin started grabbing the militias at a time when most of government employees were obliged to leave Kabul.
 MESSAGE: In  a radio message Hekmatyar
 told the mujaheddin, ' "we call upon the nation, mujaheddin and the entire , Islamic parties to unite together for saving the country from the evil of the trouble-maker communists. We assure all the jehad parties that by no means we wish to achieve power forcibly."
 NEWS ITEMS:  Shaharyar Khan, Pakistan
 Foreign Secretary, in reply to a question said., . "in regard . to the sealing of HIA offices, the Pakistan government has neither decided nor made any announcement. We ' are trying that the Peshawar Accord be implemented to the letter."
    Nawaz Sharif Prime Minister of Pakistan has said, supporting a single party or group in Afghanistan amounted to efforts being made for break-up of Afghanistan.
                 26
 EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "if we
 jthrow a glance at the world military and political currents and crosscurrents in the international developments as a senior member of the Muslim community we n come to the conclusion that the defeat of the Red Imperialism through the Afghan jehad-, has revived the , Islamic glory. With Soviet Imperialism now safely out of the way, the American Imperialism finds only a single rival to it namely.that of the Islamic movements, and in order to nip these fresh blossoming buds
117
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992         AIGliANJIHAO              VOL. 5 NO. 4
   they, with their Zionist patronizing programs, have launched a two-pronged action i.e. the show of military power and practical measures. Presently the agitation in Kabul, the heart' of Afghanistan, aimed at weakening the Islamic government, is undoubtedly rio •^more than an imperialistic draw. Some of the neighbors who are inciting the minorities to weaken the center could only me^n one thing that they have been influenced, in one way or\the other, by committed enemies of Islam i.e. Zionism and the West.”
        "In the light of this principle we can say that our mujaheddin government too is suffering and being punished for Islam, and the ignorant friends and wise enemies are paying no attention to the realization of the nation's desires."
   NEWS ITEMS:   The Afghanistan Islamic
   state's Leadership Council, in a session 23 ^uly, asked each organization to nominate two of their ministers to the new interim cabinet and send their names to this council.
   - The Iranian Television declared 23 July that the Islamic Republic of Iran has decided to have the entire Afghan refugees quartered in seven assembly centers or army quarter6 in Khurasan province. Based on official state figures there are, On the whole, three million Afghan refugees scattered over 18 out of 20 provinces.
                                               28
   EDITORIAL: The editorial says, "it is
   about four months now that the. communist government has packed up and has been replaced by an Islamic government. Perfect security and peace should have prevailed in the country by now. But in place of peace there is fighting in Kabul daily. Hundreds of innocent people are sacrificed in each
 of these fights. Foreign unholy hands are actively 'at work, to prolong this state of affairs in our country, and do not allow the jejiad organizations to close their ranks. What can be expected of such a state of affairs? Could such conditions be taken for harbinger of tidings for the return of peace and security , in Afghanistan especially in Kabul? Presently all have reached the conclusion that Kabul city is expeeeting a big and bloody war as a result of which the country's fate shall be determined. We notice the communists as powerful as before in the background and are conspiring to create
 differences among organizations and paying the way for clashes among them."
 NEWS ITEMS:  In  an interview with the
 BBC Eng. Hekmatyar said, "security affairs of Kabul should be entrusted to the Home Ministry. It is not only that the militias have not been ousted but on the contrary, as of July 20    - 24,
 7,000   more militiamen have been transferred to 'Kabul from the north. Until our entire terms are accepted, I will not visit Kabul. In case our terms are accepted I will enter Kabul at an appropriate time." .
                                                30
 EDITORIAL:   Discussing the security
 situation in Kabul the editorial says, "the post-aggression period, which was awaited by our nation since long, has finally come but it has brought with it innumerable problems which, if not tackled tactfully, will hinder the nation from towing the broken boat to a safer, shore. Ignoring the implementation of Leadership Council’s decisions, continuation of the state of coalition with the communists as well as other shortcomings have played some role iri this respect. It is incumbent that these be changed by taking speedy measures in the right direction. The
118
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992     Affilll
 establishment of a true Islamic government, acceptable to the entire body of the nation, .could go a long way towards the return of peace in the country-."
 NEWS ITEMS: A religious delegation of
 scholars, led by Abdullah Zakeri, had
 gone to Kat>ul and presented certain proposals to the government there. His proposals were revealed during an interview as follows:
 (1)  An Islamic government be established in Afghanistan which is based on Hanafi jurisprudence.
 (2) An Islamic Council, at least
 1,000 men strong,' be established in accordance with Islamic Shariat.
 (3) The ministries of Home Affairs and Defence be established from the mujaheddin.
 (4)  The remnants of the communist regime, no matter what religion, language or creed they may belong, should be expelled from the central government and the provinces.
                                    i
 (5) Office duties, entrusted to women by the former communists, be withdrawn.
 (6) Recreation programs in the Radio/ TV should be replaced by Islamic religious publicity.
 (7) Schools' academic syllabi ought to be Islamic.
 (8)  Judicial courts all over the country be constituted and Islamic criminal code be implemented.
                                    AUGUST
                                              9
 EDITORIAL:  The editorial opines that
 the closure' of Kabul International Airport was necessary since it served
[KAO                        VOL.  5  NO.   4
 as a military base for the militias. Likewise the editional condemning the cooperation of the affluent with the militias writes, "perhaps some of the aimless politicians consider, in preference to lofty national ideas, territorial integrity and the country's political freedom, complicity and negotiation with hostile elements a kind Of deftness to dominate their political rivals but it should be remembered,and history shall testify too, that the coming generations will never forget this mistake - and blunder. It will be better for the state machinery to prefer friendship and cooperation with their Muslim brethren to that of the murderous and plunderer militias."
                  L
 NEWS ITEMS:    In a press interview
 Hekmatyar observed 8 August, "JIA is responsible for the entire bloody events in Kabul. The responsibility of future dangerous events rest on those who violate their committed pledges. Hereafter political rivalries must be replaced by peaceful ' political struggle. Radio and Television1 should not be monopolized by a singular organization."      ,   ■ ■
    Ustad Fareed, Prime Minister of Islamic state of Afghanistan, who had come on a 3-day visit to Pakistan 5 August, 1992 met the Pakistan Labor Minister, Ijazul Haq 7 August.
                                      <'
 - Mawlawi Abdul Aziz, the commander of district Kagh front of Badakhshan, in a meeting with Engineer Hekmatyar in Kabul said, "the Badakhshan Muslim people have come to this conclusion that owing to the coalition of JIA with Dostum militias the people of that province have turned against the ruling clique of Kabul.-"
                  11
 INTERVIEW:  Ustad Saboor Fareed, Prime
 Minister of Islamic state of Afghanis-
119
 \
JULY-SE-PTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 tan, in a press conference 9 August in Hotel Intercontinental in Peshawar said, "coalition of the government with the militias would mean that we are ruling the country together with the murderers of thb Muslim nation." Redardirig the split of the country demanded by the militia forces of the north he said, "as the militias were in the company of the Russians for
 14 long years they were . not able to enforce the communist order in Afghanistan even with support of the Russian army. God willing, they will not be able to do anything, now. Furthermore the mujaheddin of the northern % provinces are quite capable of their schemes towards this endi"
"■NEWS ITEMS: Prof.  Sayyaf;  in a  radio
 message, observed, "the joint forces- of Rashid Dostum, Sayyed Kayan and HWIA launched a surprise attack on IIA centers and presently severe fighting is raging and IIA mujaheddin are defending their positions with all their might," He said, whenever peace talks get closer to a conclusion, HWIA and supporters launch an attack on IIA positions. "This is' the 3rd time that the IJA positions have been attacked in this manner," he said.
 - Colonel Faqir Mohammed, member NIFA# in an interview with BBC 10 August, said, the real elements behind the war. in Kabul were the militia forces.
                                                13
 DECLARATION: In a declaration, HIA has observed that the' coalition parties started the fighting in Kabul and the HIA reacted only to defend its positions. The HIA declaration has put forward the following conditions for an end to the fighting: 1
 (1)   The remaining units of the communist regime be dissolved and replaced by joint army troops.'
 (2)  The security matters of the city be entrusted to the joint .security forces administered by the Home Ministry.
 (3)  During the transition period, , according to Peshawar Accord, the Leadership Council shall be the authoritative pov/er and any kind of power-abuse and hot-headedness be restrained.
 (4) . Elections be implemented soon and power be transferred from the interim government to the elected government.
 (5)  State media, as the Radio and TV facilities, should- not be utilized by one party to the disadvantage, of the other parties. Each party can have its own paper, journal and even Radio and Television.
       The declaration goes on , "we have conveyed these proposals to the' other side but unfortunately instead of negotiating they opted for tug-of-war, fighting and conspiracies. We propose to all the concerned sides to leave aside the weapons and turn to national opinion polls, thereby establishing a . strong central government so that confrontation ends permanently and an atmosphere of peace, justice and tranquility prevails in our country."
 REPORT: Waliullah Salim, in-charge of
 IIA foreign press, who arrived in Peshawar from Kabul, in an interview with the ShaUadat has described the Kabul situation in these words:
      "The first elements responsible for insecurity and fighting are the Gelam Jam militias, General Momen, General Babajan, the Parchamis, . HWIA and the- entire coalitionists. These are the forces who jointly operate against HIA and IIA positions. In regard to .inter-fighting between HWIA and IIA he said, "around 700 people
120
   .ILY-SF.PTEMBER, 1992          HlullAN I
  have been killed and wounded in these clashes, which was started by the HWIA."
                    27
  EDITORIAL: "We have no fight with JIA",
v under this' title the editorial says, "a number of elders and prominent tribal and regional figures of the country's various areas from the entire jehad parties, as a peace mission, •recently had a meeting with brother Hekmatyar in Char Asyab. First of all the mission wanted a ceasefire to be enforced so that an atmosphere conducive to peace talks between the two sides be created. Hekmatyar said, in case they wanted a ceasefire with the JIA they should declare it right away. The JIA should mark their positions in Kabul and the HIA shall see to it that not a single shot is fired in that direction.
  NEWS ITEMS:   The jehad commanders of
  Badakhshan province left Kabul 25 August, 1992, in protest against Masood and Rabbani1 s quarrels with HIA. They protested to Prof. Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood for their surrendering to the communist militias, against jehad aspirations.
  - Sayyed Noorullah Emad, Secretary of the JIA, in a conference in Peshawar 24 August, 1992 declared, "Professor Rabbani has agreed with Hekmatyar that a joint mission of HIA and JIA be sent to the North to pave the way for the ouster of militias." He added that none of the mujaheddin from any organization were willing to work in Kabul and cooperate with the state for \ maintenance of security.       Mawlawi
  Abdur Rahim Khenjani, in the meeting, remarked that the current Kabul war has been forced on the, HIA (Hekmatyar) and the JIA groups.
                                                                                       VOL., 5 NO. 4 '
                                               30
 NEWS ITEMS:    According to reports,
 despite ceasefire agreement between the two warring sides, brought about by efforts of the Nangarhar Peace Mission, the coalition government forces violated the ceasefire by carrying out four bombing raids on the Shindand Airbase and other HIA positions at Chehel Satoon 28 August, 1992. .
    Ustad Fareed, Prime 'Minister of Afghanistan, in,an interview with BBC, regarding his dismissal by Professor Rabbani said, "the induction into office of Prof. Rabbani and myself both are the out.come of the Peshawar Accord, therefore, when I am dismissed Prof. Rabbani. too shall not remain as President for long. He has no authority to do so."
 - The Radio "Payam-e-Azadi" reported that HIA jehad forces have entered the battle-field from the western front too and with high moral are continuing their advance.
 - Radio Pakistan reported 29 August, 1992 that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and
 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani both have agreed on a permanent ceasefire and have expressed their willingness to resolve their problems through negotiations.
    In a message to Mawlawi Samiul Haq Hekmatyar said, "we assure you that not a single shot of ours will be fired against the Muslims but such Muslims who would side with the communists and support them are considered by us worse than communists." The message goes on, "a Coalition of this nature was proposed by Amin through to Najib but we rejected it because the mujaheddin have she'd their blood for 14 years only for the !£ake of an Islamic order."
121
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992      AdlllilN JIHM)               VOL-  5 NO- 4
     SEPTEMBER
                                          1
EDITORIAL: "The expulsion of militias
is the basic condition for a ceasefire" is the caption of the editorial which says, "the sacrifices offered and successes achieved during 14 years of jehad should not be wasted. To reach this end it is required that the revolution be given a thorough cleansing from the unwanted militia and communist elements. Although during the last battle there were a number of causualties among the residents of Kabul, but for the establishment, of a pure Islamic government and for   the
breaking of  the back-bone  of    the
remnants of the former regime, a military action was the only, option."
     "Now that a ceasefire has been declared between the two sides through the mediation efforts of the Peace Mission, the first article  of    the
agreement stipulates that the militias and the former regime communist elements be expelled from Kabul and disarmed. It would have been far better had our pro-coalition friends accepted this principle from the very outset and the  all this bloodshed of    the
innocent would have been avoided".
NEWS ITEMS: In a message, Hekmatyar has called upon the noble citizens of Kabul not to return to Kabul until all the barbaric militias have vacated the city.
- A meeting of HIA commanders' council was convened under the leadership of Engineer Hekmatyar 29 August, T992, in which he made several proposals regarding the latest developments in the country.
- Engineer Hekmatyar, in a message to Qazi Hussain Ahmed, has assured him
 that, God willing, he will soon hear the news about the establishment of a genuine    Islamic government in
 Afghanistan. In response, the leader of Jama'at-e-Islami of Pakistan said, "during these trying and sensitive moments do not consider yourself alone since the entire Islamic ummah is supporting you."
                   3
 EDITORIAL:  "Who is the offender and
 war-criminal?" This is the title of the article which says, "the Peshawhr Accord was the result of complicity which was acted upon hurriedly. This was due to this unwise and ill-calculated effort that Kabul started burning and the communist remnants committed crimes worse than the Russians. However, presently since a ceasefire has been affected through •the initiative,of the country's Eastern provinces' commanders which stipulates, as a first step, the ouster of communists and militias from Kabul, while the ceasefire observers' groups are monitoring the ceasefire, we shall see as to who are violating the pledge and who are the offenders and war criminals? The editorial then goes on to recount the violations and non-fulfilment of their pledges by the militias.
 NEWS ITEMS: The Gelam Jam militias have violated the ceasefire five times. They attacked the Shindand airport, held by HIA forqes, but none of the 30 HIA aeroplanes parked there was damaged.
 - Qazi Hussain Ahmed, in an interview with Nawa-e-Waqt observed, "in the new Kabul government Dostum has replaced Najib. It is obligatory on all the Muslims to cooperate! in driving out DOstum's militias. The only way to the resolution of the Afghanistan problem lies in unity and. solidarity between HIA and JIA."
122
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992          MAN lIlHMl               VOL. 5 NO. 4
 - According' to reports, due to energy and water crisis coupled with soaring prices of essential commodities, the citizens of Kabul are facing tremendous hardships and are very much concerned. During such difficult times’ for the people of Afghanistan members of the cabinet and the Ministers have left Afghanistan and most of them have arrived in Peshawar.
                    6
 EDITORIAL: "One  week of ceasefire has
 passed", under this heading the editorial     discusses    the     non-
 implementation of the ceasefire by the state and writes, "on the pretext of implementing the ceasefire agreement JIA has begun driving out the armed mujaheddin from their positions and rehabilitating the militia forces, in the name of Defence Ministry units, in their place. By this means they are not only violating the pact but are, at .the same time, stregthening their own strongholds."
 ARTICLES:  "Who are responsible for the
 current Kabul war and who are to be tried?" by Abu Khaled. This article opines that those are to be tried who' have coalesced with the communists and had agreed to a cease-fire with the Russians.
                    8
 EDITORIAL: "The  inflamed masses of the
 country on HIA decisive lines". In the, wake of the prevalent conditions in the1 country a major tribal assembly (Jirga) is invaluable. This glorious jirgah embedded with the holy slogan of "Allaho-Akbar" in the mountain range of Khyber and Jatera revived the memory4of Abdali and Ghaznavide armies. The Jirgah decided that 5,000 armed youth be entrusted to Hekmatyar, Ameer of Islamic movement, so that under his command, they join the HIA ranks and
confront the treacherous and brutal adversary. The anger and wrath of our compatriots against the Gelam Jam militias and the unholy coalition have now reached new dimensions. Henceforth, Rabbani, Masood, Dostum, the communists and their alien friends are at liberty because the days of their coalition were numbered and could not last long and owing to the HIA initiative they stood exposed and disgraced in front of the mujahed nation. Now they are faced with two options i.e. either to confront the entire nation with animosity or give in to HIA lines."
NEWS ITEMS:   In a 'letter addressed to
the Nangarhar Peace Mission, Hekmatyar has observed, "with the passage of a week's time and the oppositions now tell us what should the HIA mujaheddin do? If these -communist generals start the war afresh what will , be your position? What is your stance in regard to the bombardment of Shindand and Pul-e-Khumri? We are hopeful that your stand will soon be made clear to us so that in its light my mujaheddin shall be instructed accordingly".
- Mawlawi Mohammed Nabi Mohammedi, on his return to Kabul, in an interview with VOA. said, "in fact there are militias in Kabul and we have decided that as long as the barbarous militias remain in Kabul we will not enter Kabul".
      The clean-up operation of Kabul city from the presence of mujaheddin is being carried out under the supervision of General Majeed Dostum. In an interview with BBC, in this context, Majeed said that the expulsion program of the parties from the interior of Kabul is under way and so far there are no main hurdles in the way.
                 10
EDITORIAL: "The  mission  of peace delegation after one week":  After discus-
1-23
JULY -SEPTEMBER * 1992     flfGIMN JfHlifl             VOL-  5 NO- 4
sing government's violation of the agreements the editorial concludes, "when all is said and done one thing is very clear that there seems to be an atmosphere of unhappiness in the pragmatic approach and manner of the internal as well as the external reformers and if the Kabul coalition regime does not remove these misgivings and concerns readily, then the internal commanders and neighboring countries too will openly call HIA as justified and side with it. That is why the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Hashimi Rafsanjani is on record emphasizing in Lahore that the only way to the solution of the Afghanistan current problem is elections and once the elected representatives start working the Afghanistan problem will fade out. This is exactly what HIA has been emphasizing throughout but the rest are avoiding it.
REPORT: In one of jehad bunkers, during an interview 9 September with foreig[n correspondents, Hekmatyar observed, "in case the communists are disbanded and the militiamen are expelled from Kabul Ustad Fareed and I' will start our work. We are going to drive the militias out <pf Kabul and shall put an end to their rule in the North as well. I deplore that Rabbani and Masood are falling in the rank and file of the communists. I cannot tolerate the Afghanistan's territory break-up even of an inch. We do not want governments in Afghanistan that are established by coups or through family rule but We are favouring an Islamic elected government" .
- Nang Yousufzai, a former Parliament member of Afghanistan said, "Rabbani ought to be tried by an authoritative judicial court for his crime of allowing the communists to share the
 power as well the massacre in, Kabul.'
                                                                  In an interview, Hekmatyar, said.
 "this time, the battle shall be decisiv.e and the members of Peace Mission will also be with us. All the leaders are of the opinion that unless the militias are driven out of Kabul security cannot be maintained." He said, "general elections • can resolve many problems".
                                                 13
 EDITORIAL: "Western propaganda war with HIA". The editorial condemns the Western media's publicity especially that of BBC against HIA, and also its campaign of pressurizing Pakistan to follow suit, and calls it an exercise in futility quoting a Pakistani journalist, 'Mujibur Rahman Shami, who said, "Afghanistan does not happpen to be a province of Pakistan, nor for that matter, Hekmatyar is a person of no standing. ,One who can defeat the Soviet Union and boycott meeting the ruler of the "White House", for such a person this or that will carry no substance."
 NEWS ITEMS:  The high  command  of HIA
 forces issued a declaration 10 September, 1992 statirig that despite a ceasefire agreement, Shindand Airport and HIA Headquarters in Baghlan and Farah have been attacked by militias several times. In case such enemy air raids are not stopped, HIA will resume its attacks on the air-fields and stop the air traffic.:  An  HIA source ■ said
 that due to an urgent request from, Nangarhar Peace Mission the blitzkrieg has been postponed. The peace mission has asked brother Hekmatyar to withhold the blitzkrieg so aS to enable the Mission to seek ways of stopping the coalition government from attacking HIA Headquarters, throughout Afghanistan.
 S .
    Mawlawi Saheb . Tarakhel, in an interview with BBC, deplored the executions in Kabul calling them devoid of Islamic color.
,IULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     IlfflllllN JlHIllI               VOL.  5 NO.  4
 - Amnesty International has expressed concern over the recent executions carried out in Kabul.
 - Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the chief of JIP observed, "to speak of fundamentalism and me'diocrity is an American conspiracy and a step to disunite the Muslims."
 - According to available reports, due to bombardments by the coalion govrnment's forces on Shindand airport three commanders have been martyred. The airfield is damaged to the tune of 2 billion dollars (stet) .
                    15
 EDITORIAL: "HI A last concession in the
 way of the resolution of Afghanistan's crisis" is the title of the editorial which says, "recently brother Hekmatyar proposed to the Kabul coalition chief that if they carry out their pledges based on ouster of the militias, disbandment of the communists and holding of elections, with a view to organizing the council and establishing an elected government, the HIA will be' willing to forego the entire state distinctions and the posts offered according to the Peshawar Accord in favor of the opposite side. This is the last concession made by HIA unilatarally in order to diffuse equitably the current debacle. If the coalition side still does not agree then it is well known to one and all that Professor Rabbani is no more than a symbol in Kabul and the real rulers are the anti-Islamic communists and the criminal militias.
 NEWS ITEMS:      Through a telephone
 dialogue with Maulana Fazlur Rahman, Engineer Hekmatyar said, "we want a solution to the problem of Afghanistan and whatever we emphasize is for the sake of Islam and the -interest of our country. "
   In reply Maulana Fazlur Rahman said, "I shall talk to Rabbani and tell him to stop violating the pledges."
   In an interview Mawlawi Khales observed, "the existing ceasefire in Kabul is not reliable."
   According • to a report the former regime communist generals and the barbaric militias have admitted, in a private meeting, that more than 1*800 of their armed men have been killed and that during the last days of the battle more than 200 armed men of the Supervisory Council were also killed.
                       Wahdat-e-Islami
                                JUNE
                                   25
 EDITORIAL: After talking about the
 communists depriving us of shelter, clothes and bread the editorial writes, "and now here we are with our broken down and demolished home which we must build afresh. Is it an easy task? To reconstruct an entire country requires quite a number of years and that is exactly the reason why all the races, tribes and followers of different faiths must get together, forgetting their differences. In this task the rights of various communities ought to be equally recognized and respected. In jehad bunkers the Shias, Sunrtis, Pashtuns, Hazaras, Tadjeks, Uzbeks and Nooristanis stuck together and defended the Islamic identity heroically. Similarly today, at this stage of the country's reconstruction, they should also treat each other like brothers."
 INTERVIEW: Hujattul Islam Mazari,
 General Secretary HWIA, in a press conference in reply to the questions o.f
125
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1992         AfflHANJHI/IU             VOL. 5 NO.  4
 correspondents observed, "we are determined to establish an elected Islamic government in Afghanistan based on social justice. Three ministries are entrusted to us from which we have identified Lt. General Khudaidad Khan, with the Ministry of National Security, for the Ministy of Industries and Mines Engineer Yakoob Laali and Dr. Abdul Wahed Sarabi has been nominated for the Ministry of Reconstruction." He said. Engineer • Laali was the Minister of Public Works, deputy of Industries and the Chief of Helmartd Project in King Zaher Shah's period and was confined, to his house during the communist regime. Abdul Wahed Sarabi was Planning Minister during Zaher, Shah's rule and during the past regime was Planning Minister and Deputy Premier and Khudaidad Khan had also held some commanding posts in the army but due to differences with Najib, had lately retired.
 ARTICLES: "The present position and the future government" by Alami Balkhi in which, after praising the 14-year jehad, he writes, " after the fall of the communist regime we are- at a ,j Very sensitive and perilous cross-roads and in case the problems are not thrashed with care and wisdom it may have serious consequences and affect the achievements of revolution."
 INTERVIEW: Abdul  Haq Shafaq, member of
 HWIA Central Council, in an interview with the Wahdat-e-Islami journal said, "it is very unfortunate that after a lapse of over two . months not only there is no peace and security in the country but- political differences of the organizations, in many cases, have resulted     in     severe      military
 confrontations which have marred the prospects of a political sovereignty."
 He said, "a government will only be capable to last in Afghanistan which is Islamic oriented and considers the rights of the entire cross-section of the Afghan society. Then with the support of all the Muslim nationalities it can protect . the independence, territorial integrity and unity of the country."
 COMMENTARY: "Did Mr. Mujaddedi succeed
 in (discharging his obligations during his tenure of two months?"This is a question which has crossed the minds of many of us. The truth being that Mr. Mujaddedi took over the reins of the government under such conditions that the country was undergoing a great political upheaval and the last communist nests were shattered. His foremost important mission as the country's first political leader, in the post-Islamic movement victory, was the restoration of peace and security, creation of a conducive political atmosphere, revival of the^ spirit of cooperation,. mutual confidence and Islamic brotherhood among various jehad wings, strengthening of national unity, attracting necessary international attention and assistance for the country's reconstruction, mobilizing, furnishing     and equipping the
 dilapidated ministries and government departments, providing primary living needs of the people and finally establishing a - just Islamic order in Afghanistan."
                10
 INTERVIEW:  Hujjattul Islam Mazari,
 in an interview with foreign correspondents, regarding the HWIA position said, "the territories controlled by us remain as such and the agreement made with Mr. Mujaddedi, as far as we are concerned, still holds". About the membership of his party in the Leadership Council he said, it was decided in Pakistan that one person from HWIA ought to
126
JIJI Y-SFPTFMBF.R, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
remain in the Leadership Council. "During our discussions with jehad council/ too, the same position was confirmed. Of course the council had to be reconstituted after the presence of our representative and the President, deputy and spokesman of the council had to be re-elected," he said.
                  16
EDITORIAL:  Speaking about the unity
during 14 years of jehad and condemning the prevalent hatred and pessimism the editorial says, "suffocations, kidnappings, molestations, tortures and propagation of disorder and disturbance followed by fanning pessimism and despondency in regard to the leaders of Islam and fomenting disbelief in the capabilities of mujaheddin and Islamic government's authority , in administration and their coping with the requirements of the society are all trickery and stratagem of the imperialists to deprive us of our sovereignty and authority in our land.
     The  editorial concludes, "the
future Afghanistan should be built by you and I together; neither you alone can be the master of this land nor, for that matter, I can claim, all by myself, to own it."
NEWS:The 40th day of the martyrdom of mujahed brethren Professor Abdullah Wahedi, Chaman Ali Abuzar, Engineer Hussain,  members of HWIA Central
Council,  and brother Mohammed Naim
Waseeq was commemorated in a glorious ceremony in Hussainia Irfan.
                  23
EDITORIAL: It was simultaneous with the induction of HWIA representative in the country's Leadership Council and the establishment of identity of views in regard to the active participation and proportionate share of HWIA . in the
 interim government that the fire of another devastating battle was lit by international imperialism whose
 regional.elements resulted in the death of women, children and civilians. Extensive international imperialistic efforts aimed at safety and survival of Najib's atheistic regime followed by i strengthening their other hand-picked pieces in the frame-work of UN 5 point plan were frustrated by historic initiatives of mujaheddin spear-headed by HWIA. Other detrimental and harmful measures continued to be taken by the pawns and changed faces, ostensibly of jehad, against the jehad religious identity and strengthening -of Islamic movement. These anti-Islamic hands are actively and forcefully at ' work to create rift among the mujaheddin-.
    It will never be acceptable to our Muslim and oppressed people that jehad leaders should remain as . mere spectators and, at times, partial in the face of foreign sponsored riots and disorders and forget their Islamic mission and human obligations to confront and contain Such crises.
    Hujjatul Islam Fayyaz, HWIA representative in Tehran, in an interview with BBC correspondent 19 July, rejecting the allegations of Sayyaf's representative, stating that HWIA had started the shootings said, "it was exactly 2 p.m., 8 July, that
 Sayyaf's forces started fighting in the areas occupied by the Shia. and HWIA forces."
        Wafa
                                   JUNE
             28
 EDITORIAL: "28 June and the anxiety of
 Kabul citizens". The editorial comments
127
JllLY-SFIPTrMBEK, 1992             (UN llfllllfl               VOL.  5 NO-  4
 'mmmmrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
 on the expiry of Mujaddedi's office tenure 29 June and ' the start of Rabbani.'s rule based on Peshawar
           #              I
 Accord. Pointing to the irreconcilable differences of the rulers the editorial reminds of the dangers to the people in this context.
 INTERVIEW:  In regard to the tense
 situation prevalent in the country Professor Pazhwak, a former diplomat in an interview observed, "I believe that the situation will aggravate further and I am afraid that conditions may get out of hand to such an extent that people will pray for the return of days by gone and may be thankful for the present. However, I add one point i.e. these untoward conditions are brought about by certain persons, parties and governments,     deliberately    and
 purposely, to serve their own self interest and advantages". In reply to a question he said, "in case foreign intervention ceases, it will be difficult to forecast as to how the complicated problem of Afghanistan will be solved. Only this much can be said that there is no other way to solve this problem except to follow the national diplomacy and traditions of. the Afghan people;"
 ARTICLES:   "Central government in
 Afghanistan and the provinces" by Musafer. Commenting on the severing of relations between the center and provinces of Afghanistan the article writes, "in the provinces of Afghanis-, tan each commander has his own kingdom. The point to ponder is that in some border provinces, the commander even established relations with their neighboring countries without notifying the Central government. In fact such deeds are Carried out against the will of the entire Afghan nation which might create problems- in future. The provinces and areas do not obey the orders of the government. As such the aliens can very easily make in-roads in,
 various territories J It is up to the entire community of the Afghans to ponder over the future of the nation".
 - "A proposal for the solution of the Afghanistan existing problem" by Tanival. This article' discusses unimaginable and unexpected events in Afghanistan and makes a proposition for their resolution as such:
     The neutral 35-member panel, agreed upon by all the organizations, ought to take over the power and all the organizations should accept it heartily and ought to abstain from any complicity. In this way the organizations will be in a position to act politically. This government's office tenure will be for 6 months only in order ■ to maintain security and to check inter-party conflicts. At 'the end of this period a grand assembly (Loya Jirgah) be convened and according to previous administrative system seven persons from every district and three from every sub-district be .called to the grand assembly. The total number of these representatives will reach to 2,500. The grand assembly, on its part, shall create a legal national government which will be elected for two years and at the conclusion of which general elections will be conducted.
 DECLARATION:   The Afghan University
 Professes1 Union, in a declaration, has described the situation in Kabul as very serious calling on all sides to abstain from cpnflicts and prejudices; foreign interferences under any name.be stopped; a singular independent Afghanistan should remain. Afghanistan is a common home of all the Afghans and they will permit no one to disintegrate it. Therefore, the Kabul. University Professors' Union considers the convening of a grand assembly as the. only way • for the resolution of Afghanistan problem.
128
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 IJIIilllllWIIIBIIIIBMWniWIilWIWWBWi
              JULY
                6
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 EDITORIAL: "Events in Kabul in relation
 to the Afghan Issue," is the title of the editorial which reviews the bloody incidents in Kabul after the mujaheddin take-over and sheds light on the unholy alliance. It says, " j.t is the moral and religious obligation of every individual Afghan not to remain indifferent vis-a-vis the present situation in the city but to struggle, in .a unified political front alongwith: his compatriats, for the liberation of his homeland ' and the defense of national and territorial integrity, and political independence. Only by this means Afghanistan will be able to occupy its rightful position among other independent nations of the world again."
 REPORT: Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, head of
 the Islamic state of Afghanistan, while
 handing over the government to the
 Leadership Council at the end of his
 term of office made a brief statement
 and said, "I came to Kabul according to
 a decision taken in Peshawar and the
 first thing I did was to announce
 general amnesty and to ask the
 residents of Kabul to forget their
 hard feelings about the past and
 embrace each other in friendship.
 Though the two months allotted fgr my
 tenure was not enough to settle any of
 the major problems Afghanistan was
 facing, Islaihic laws were enforced and
 all anti-Islamic procedures were
 banned. The budget for 1992 and a 100%
 rise in civilian salaries and wages of
 the workers were approved." Mujaddedi
                              *
 added that contrary to the Peshawar Accords, sessions of the Leadership Council were held under Prof. Rabbani only within a few days of the establishment of the Islamic government in Kabul and its decisions were
   contrary to those passed by the Jehadic Council earlier. These sessions should have actullay been convened after two months i.e. at the end of his tenure of office. He said, despite the general amnesty, announced by him at the start of the Islamic government, some leaders suggested the establishment of special tribunals which aroused a general fear among the masses. Muja.ddedi added, "in ari effort to prevent the presidential offices to function properly, they were occupied by and annexed to the Ministry of Defense. The latter paid no heed at all to my repeated requests for arming the Presidential Guard."
        Among a host of other complaints he made in his .final statement, the outgoing head of the Islamic state of Afghanistan told the audience, "a number of private houses were usurped from their owners by members of some of the mujaheddin organizations; no security measures were taken by the Ministry of Defense on my'visits to the provinces or abroad; those involved in the shooting of my airliner during my return trip from Pakistan have not been arrested by either of the ministries of Defense or Interior." Mujaddedi concluded, " in spite of all these inconveniences,     the    Ministry     of
   Information and Culture used the radio and television facilities for the promotion of their party interests as if these were their private property. Most of my statements or news items related to the Presidential Office were either censored or omitted from being broadcast at all."
   NEWS ITEMS:
   " Eng. Hekmatyar, leader of HI A, in a meeting, near Kabul, with journalists from Peshawar 30 June said, the situation in Kabul was very tense, intrigues were being perpetrated, foreign hands were at"work and that the territorial integrity of the country was being threatened. He said, " some
129
 Mil
v-srpTFmock, 1992
VOL, 5 no. 4
 of the neighboring countries are also involved in these plots; there is no security whatsoever and nobody is safe, 'n the alliance that has been formed in the north of the country, the Parcham faction has obtained an upper hand. We ire strongly against this alliance. The 41A stand at this critical moment is •.hat our national unity and territorial integrity be maintained at all cost.
      Hekmatyar said, "Kabul is now ruled by thieves. We had seen groups of thieves in the past but not divisions -fully equiped with airports, aircraft, tanks and artillery." He said, "what we need at this stage most is national unity for a powerful Afghanistan and a dynamic leadership."
 *•    Prof.   Rabbani, the new President
 of the interim government in Afghanistan, while announcing his government policy 30 June said, "the Islamic government will defend national unity, territorial integrity, political independence of Afghanistan and the values of the Islamic jehad. The government .would make an all-out effort that health, facilities are free and are available to all on an equal basis. Free education will be made available to all but the education curricula will
 be based on Islamic principles. Free trade will be encouraged. The government will support the United Nations Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights and all other international commitments that do not collide with Islamic teachings. Afghanistan will further develop relations with Pakistan and Iran and will remain a member of the NAM*"
ARTICLES:  "The role of Loya Jirgah for
 settling political problems of Afghanistan," by Habibullah Rafi which reviews the history of the Loya Jirgah, and considers it§ role effective in the solution of problems of national importance.
      "The present obligations of peace-loving Patriots." The article written by Chinar provokes the majority of the 'mute' population of the nation to seek a way'out of the present dilemma in the country.
                  15
 EDITORIAL: The editorial while expressing sorrow over the allocation of government posts in Afghanistan, which is done on the basis of nepotism and party interests rather than personal qualifications or capabilities, says this can be very damaging to a country already suffering from severe devastation. But the editorial is optimistic that sooner or later the power-mongers in the country will come to their senses.
 INTERVIEW: Commander Abdul Haq has said in an , interview that at times of crisis the Afghans have always, in the past, turned their attentions to the Loya Jirgah. "Let the people themselves decide their destiny," he said.
      Regarding works managed by women, he said, it is an open secret that the women form 50-60% of the work force in Kabul right now despite the fact that they are under great pressure from the authorities. Many of them are widowed and it is our obligation to care for them and for their children - irrespective of! the political backgrounds of their husbands or fathers. He said, "there are only two alternatives, (1) to let them continue to earn bread for their children in a decent way or (2) let the Islamic government lay them off and entirely support them and their families. Apparently the first option is not acceptable -and the second does not seem practicable. Therefore, we shall have to either slay them all or leave them to earn their living undecently by taking to the streets."
130
JULY-SEPTEMBER* 1992
 ARTICLES:   "The Afghans desire a
 National Government," by Habibullah Rafi which says in part, "the voices raised in Afghanistan in the name of language, religion and race are not those of the nation but of a limited number of Afghans tipped by the foreign enemies of Afghanistan and its fanatic neighbors who, in the interest of their masters, are endeavoring to "fish in muddy waters", as the Afghan saying goes."
      "Afghanistan has just been saved from the clutches of communist imperialism by paying a heavy price and the Afghans cannot afford to force the country into the mouth of yet another dragon. For the Afghans the question of whether Tadjek, Pashtun, Uzbeck, Hazara etc. rules the country does not arise at all, but only that the ruler should be an Afghan Muslim and should rule to the complete satisfaction of the nation. He should safeguard the territorial integrity, national sovereignty, national unity and     interest > against       foreign
 expansionists and internal despots. In case he fails to do so, the nation will rise against him no matter who he may happen to be."
      National unity, our . all-out Guarantor," by Habibur Rahman Halah. The article says, "a nation must be united in order to be able to defend its independence, territorial integrity and      the     right      to     self-
 determination. The establishment of brotherhood and equality is possible only through social justice in that the people are treated equally irrespective of their faith, language, creed or race. Naturally, national unity is attainable only when the. people of the country place their collective interests before their individual gains and to forget their petty differences for reaching a general understanding."
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
       The Afghans are returning home, but they surely play with their lives," the article translated by Emal Psarlai, enumerates the problems they are going to face ^uch as starvation, internal discord, conflics and their ruined homes.
                  24
 EDITORIAL:   "Is the Western world
 endangered by Islam?" The editorial while dwelling on th6 fear of the Western world from Islam advises the Muslims . to stick steadfast to their religion and follow its tenets in all sphares of life. The editorial opines that this kind of treatment can be a logical and hard hitting response to those who trample the facts and behave haughtily.
 REPORT: Ustad Abclus Saboor Fareed, the
 Prime Minister of the Islamic state of Afghanistan, in a press conference 27 June said, "every one is well aware of the ethics among the jehadic organizations in Afghanistan. In this short period of time whatever we have on our hands, in regard to security programs and removal, of tensions and frictions, the foremost one is the formation of an army or a combined jehad force. We have decided that the armed personnel who go against the established rules ought to be disarmed and the irresponsible persons Who trample on the ethics .be done away with." Hamed Helmi, BBC correspondent asked, "Eng. Hekmatyar has said that in case security cannot be maintained in Kabul you will be advised to leave it, whereas he (Hekmatyar) from political point of view, is the leader of your party and Professor Rabbani is - legally your superior officer. If Professor Rabbani wants you to remain in the government and Eng. Hekmatyar wants you to stay away, would you opt for the legal or political?." He replied, "Eng.
(Hekmatyar has said in case the Prime Minister cannot do anything he shall
131
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992           (UN JfHlil]             VOL. 5 NO. 4
 relinquish his post and will join his people. This statement does not negate the programs which are’ under way. We are trying ' to find ways and thereby serve our people."
                                               30
 EDITORIAL: The editorial stresses the
 need for 'combat against diseases that the people of Afghanistan have contracted as a result of a devastating war.
 INTERVIEW: Prof. Rabbani has delegated
 an eight-man committee to draft the new t Afghan constitution. The BBC has interviewed a former Minister of Justice and Afghan scholar# Sayyed Shamsuddin Majroh in this regard who said, " now that a central government lacks in ,Afghanistan it is not possible to draft a , new constitution. Formulating a constitution is not an easy task. Public opinion must be sought prior to tackling such an important issue."
 ARTICLES:    "Political outlook of
 Afghanistan" is the caption of the article by Mohammad Hasan Formoly which says, "it may be true that the present leaders earned themselves great international admiration but none of them can claim that he has enjoyed the same amount of popularity among their own people. Our leaders should not practice nepotism when it comes to the allocation of governmental posts -they can express their generosity in private matters. They should share these posts with learned, expert and experienced politicians. The way they are proceeding right now will not attract public support but, on the contrary, the public will be forced to take distance from them which eventually may take the form of a devastating flopd destroying anything (official) that comes along. The government should be aware of public rage which is bound to happen sooner
 or later."
      "Kabul is again Mournful" by M. Musafer who sheds tears over the recent sectarian conflicts^in Kabul.
                                  AUGUST
                7
 EDITORIAL: "Returning Refugees should
 be assisted." Under this title the editorial enumerates the problems the returnees are facing upon Arrival in Afghanistan and hopes that'the Islamic government, humanitarian organizations of the UN and the neighboring countries will   realise   the difficulties
 encountered by the refugees upon return to the country and take necessary steps for their resettlement.
 INTERVIEW: Mawlawi Mohammad Younus
 Khales, leader of the HIA, told the BBC in an interview, "what is currently going on in Kabul is contrary to the interests of Islam and Afghanitan, and this is the reason why they are not returning to Kabul." Since Khales had no role whatever in the present government, he has suspended his membership in the Leadership Council too.
     Hamed Elmi, a young Afghn journalist who has recently returned to Peshawar told the Wafa in an interview, "every street in the city has established a local government of its own and there is lack of harmony among the mujaheddin with each group working independently. The unfortunate set-up has led to the plundering of all military establishments, arms depots and public and private offices. At the present moment in Kabul, there are no offices, no salaries, no ration cards and no oil." He said, the situation in the provinces was comparatively better. The general public were sick of the
132
.MILY-SEPTEMBER, 1992       AfflHAIf JIHAD                 VOL. 5  NO. 4
 situation. Even high-placed members of the mujaheddin organizations cJdmit that they are incapable of maintaining security. Instead of the mujaheddin government, he said, there should be a government of the people to bring peace in the country."
 ARTICLES: "This pot is not small" by Hakeem Taniwal, is the title of an article which says that at the prs.ent . we have a government which is a coalition between Rabbani and Mazdak i.e. between the JIA and a branch of the Parcham faction. The article argues, "though the Prime Minister's post belongs to Mazdak and the cabinet is divided among v the other organizations, the real authority is in the hands of JIA and Dostum. The Leadership Council is paralysed and the ' economic position gets worse with every day that passes. Kabul is void of food, fuel..... and from the cultural point of view narrowmindedness is in full swing; music and films have been banned; cinemas are closed and Professor Rabbani has converted the only cinema at Maimana (Faryab Province) into a Madrasa."
      Will future Afghanistan all belong to the Mullas? Will there be no need for artists, engineers, and others in the future? After asking these questions the article goes on, "Islamic government cannot place a complete ban on music. Listening to the 'duhl' (Afghan two-sided drum) or watching the 'atan' (Afghan National Dance), are the inseparable part of the Afghan culture. It looks as if this pot is too small to hold everything and
 sooner or later it is going to shatter in fragments.
                   16
 EDITORIAL: "How  lorig still are we to
 suffer?" Under this title the
 editorial' dwells on the 14-year-long sufferings of the nation and says, until the Afghans are united and rid themselves from foreign intrigues and exposed the hercules that have come to the fore under various names, the bloody drama will not come to an end.
 REPORT:   Regarding a meeting with
 Benazir Bhutto of an Afghan delegation, Rasool Amin said, " we explained to her that the basic causes of the war were the ideologies and the parties imposed on the nation from abroad. Dostum and his friends are all remnants of the former communist regime. The eight groups formed in Iran and the seven in Pakistan and the three forces now present in Afghanistn are currently fighting against each other not for the interests of the Afghans but for the interests of foreign forces. The present leaders, who have come from three different directions have not been elected by the Afghans and hence are not legitimate." Amin added, they told Bhutto Afghanistan was a land of "Jirgahs". It was through these that important national and international problems of Afghanistan have been solved in the past. "The present situation is grave enough to justify the UN intervention. "The Security Council should call the Loya Jirgah which should elect the leader freely," he said.
      Benazir said in this meeting, "ours is an Islamic party which respects freedom, parliaments and elections and hence will never endeavor to suppress other nations. In future in this region, forces favoring freedom, democracy and the right to self-determination in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Central Asia and Turkey will remain on one side and those against these rights will be on the other." She said, political stagnation will not remain confined to one country and will definitely affect its neighbors too."
133
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO. 4
 DECLARATION:  The National Alliance
 Movement of Afghanistan in a declaration has expressed its concern over the latest fighting in Kabul and has criticized its perpetrators. The declaration blames shameless interventions of some foreign countries in
 these incidents. The movement suggests that instead of the present powerless administration it would be better to call the Loya Jirgah for, deciding upon the fate of the government.
     The Writers Union of Free, Afghanistan (WUFA), has said in a statement that the mujaheddin organizations should settle their differences through negotiations. The WUFA has called upon the Afghans residing abroad not to remain indifferent about the destiny of their homeland. It also calls upon the UN Security Council to convene an emergency session and take necessary steps in order to prevent t'he escallation of the devastating inter-Afghan war and to urge upon the neighboring countries to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of and plotting against Afghanistan.
                                               27
 INTERVIEW: Gen. Rahmatullah Safi in an interview to Wafa said, "the way the.^ Kabul residents are massacred and dis-honored indicates as if they do not belong to us." He said, the stores and reserves were emptied, supply routes were closed for want of security and foreign assistance could not be attracted for lack of a stable, government.
     He said that the present war would get us nowhere but only the innocent and suffering residents suffer more for lack of.food and fuel supplies.
     Sayyed Eshaq Gailani, who has just returned to Peshawar from Kabul, told the Wafa corespondent, "during the last
 14 years f we have been unable to establsih an administation to relieve the pains of our people, but instead we have given them, particularly those of Kabul, some extra cause for. suffering and concern that they have forgotten all the persecutions they sufferred under the former communist regime."
       Gailani added,   "the    people of
 Afghanistan are not interested in parties; their system is based on jirgahs. I. am personally in favor of a national government in Afghanitan because the party-government has little chance for success. It is not difficult to call the Loya       Jirgah/   under UN
 supervision which      will      in turn
 determine the national leadership.
                                                               Arbab Dost Mohmmad told the Wafa reporter in Jalalabad, many citizens of
 Kabul have been forced to migrate because of the war there. Some of these have settled on          the    road-side
 leading to Sarobi while others have
       ' >
 come to Jalalabad. "We are -endeavoring to keep them here and stop them from proceeding further to Pakistan," he sai^T.                  .
 REPORT:  The devastating, situation in
 Kabul has forced the citizens to vacate, the city. Thousands of families have camped along the road to Sarobi while others have.managed to reach Jalalabad and are leading a miserable life. The Wafa correspondent reports from Jalalabad, 60,000 people, are spread along the .route between Kabul and Sarobi.                      ,
 * The UNHCR office in Peshawar says, they have not taken any specific-measures for the settlement of those who have recently fled the country because of the on-going fighting there. Officials told Wafa correspondent that talks were in progress in this , respect and that their ^arrival has not yet affected.the return of the refugees to
134
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        j[RHflNJtHflfl             VOL. 5 NO. 4
 Afghanistan.
                             SEPTEMBER
                                        10
 INTERVIEW: A well-known religious
 scholar and mujahed of Herat, Mawlawi Abdus Samad Yousufzai, told the Wafa in an interview, "the northern alliance was nothing but a conspiracy against the HIA. If the mujaheddin had united at the time when the last Russian contingents were leaving Afghanistan their puppet regime would not  have
 lasted long. But because of the discord and some other factors their rule was extended for another three years." He said, the present fighting between the HIA and the JIA is    on account of
 usurpation of powere from the former. "Since the government is  not based
 upon understanding and the nation's will, therefore, it will not be supported by the people in general," he said.
 *• Khaled Ma'aroof,  who has newly
 been appointed as an Afghan diplomat to London in an interview with Wafa said, the present crisis in Afghanistan can only be solved through a representative assembly. "A federal government was not ideal for Afghanistan," he said.
 REPORT: A Wafa correspondent, who has recently visited Quetta, reports about the situation in Kanadahar that security prevails in the city. Those
 interviewed by the correspondent were all united on one point that those in charge of law-and-order did not permit any armed person to enter the city. Only at the fall of the Na jib regime some of the public and private property were partly looted. There was plenty of consumer goods available and oil was transported from Herat for which the residents of Kandahar were grateful to the Herat Provincial Council. Prices were also moderate. All
 of them said that the people had started the reconstruction and that they were all happy about, it.
 ARTICLES: "Jehad against Indifference"
 is the title of an article by Prof. Habibur Rahman Halah. Recounting the present adversities in Afghanistan the article says, "with the present indifference on the part of the people of Afghanistan, it will not be far off before the people of the country will be faced with a situation like that in Somalia where the people are starving- to death in thousands and it is then when the situation will get out of control."
                 20
 INTERVIEW: Sayyed Abdul Hussain Wa'ez,
 told the Wafa in an interview that the situation in Afghanistan was rapidly deteriorating. The majority of the people have lost their grip on the country and have become tools in the hands of aliens. The massacre of the defenceless people , and innocent children recently has been carried out from two parties the names of which are composed of two sacred words i.e Wahdat-e-Islami and Ittehad-e-Islami (Islamic Unity). They have carried, out deeds that spoil the sanctity of the word 'unity' - deeds that will be unpardonable by the present and future generations.
      He said, "Despite all this the people of Afghanistan, both Pashtun and Hazara, have condemned these deeds. The Pashtuns and Hazaras have lived in harmony in their common province of Wardak for ages and have fought their common enemy side by jside during the years of the jehad."
 " Abdul Ahad Karzai, former parliamentary Deputy in Afghanistan, in-an interview has said, the situation in Kandahar was good;, the Shoora (council)
135
 JULY-SEPTEMRER, 1992
 also belonged to the people and was not 'influenced    by     the    mujaheddin
 organizations. He said, the Afghan
 nation fought their common enemy unitedly, but the present government was not elected by the nation and belongs only to a limited number of people. "The tragedy will continue as long as the people have no say in it," he said..
 ARTICLES: "Beware of Alien Hands" is
 the title of an article by Abdul Jalil
VOL. 5 NO. 4
Wajdi. The article considers the present conflict between the Pashtuns and the Hazaras as an outcome of foreign intrigues.
      "Which Loya Jirgah, where and by whom?" Under this title the writer, Mohammad Siddiq Psarlai, while approving the idea of a Loya Jirgah argues that under present critical conditions it will prove to be a chase of the wild goose.
| JULY - SEPTEMBER, 1992

VOL- 5 NO. 4 |
   AFGHAN EVENTS
JULY-SEPTEMBER1992
 AKISTAN TIMES
tJU»!
A
    I %<&  1 if* *
       cmJfJM
  \ v \ -trtt ms*. ANO THE NATION fclAt ANP
       THE
          - - /;////y[ y/Zo/7 /// //
 x Y
//
/ /
 \\
 \

' // ^ /
■///> /..,
// / /
^ / / /
137
JULY-SEPTEMBERr 1992 llllitJIIM - VOL. 5 NO. 4
        CHRONOLOGY, AFGHAN EVENTS
  JULY-SEPTEMBER 1992
                                   JULY
                                       1
   President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan have greeted Burhanuddin Rabbani on his assumption of office of the President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan. The President said in his message the smooth and voluntary transfer of power in Afghanistan reflects the wisdom and vision of the Afghan people and their determination to bring peace, stability and progress in their country. Prime Minister's message said#( "your appointment which has come as a. result of an Afghan consensus is testimony to your leadership and to the faith that the Afghan people have reposed in you." (PT)
 * While expressing appreciation over the peaceful transfer of power to Prof. Rabbani Mawlawi Mohammed Younus Khales, leader of HIA, has said that there is no room for former communist elements in the Islamic government. He hoped that Prof. Rabbani, by abiding the rules set in the Peshawar Accord of April 24, would rule for four months. Khales said that security was the need of the hour in the country and expressed the hope Prof. Rabbani would place it at the top ' of his list of performances. (VOADS)
 " Prof. Noorul Haq Ahadi, a former
 lecturer in Kabul °ii versity, in answer to a question told th-e VOA correspondent that political and military differences, that had disturbed ;the Mujaddedi government, were still prevalent, viz the presence of Dostum militia and the influence of Parcham and Shia elements. Despite the fact that Mujaddedi was more favored than Prof. Rabbani, he could not maintain law and order and "I do not think Rabbani will be capable to do so either," he said. (VOAPS)
 * Dr. Abdus Samad Hamed, a former Deputy Premier, has ■ said in respect to the lawlessness in Kabul that despite the overthrow of the former Kabul regime through a pre-planned coup and the partial transfer of power to the mujaheddin, the situation assumed broader dimentions in which the territorial integrity posed a grave challenge to the mujaheddins'honbr and prestige. He added, "the Kabul regime has not been overthrown but only its profile has changed with an Islamic seal. This unholy coalition was formed in,Moscow last year." He said, the mask has been removed from the faces of many Muslim actors in the course of the recent months which reveals that their deeds have proved contrary to the Afghan jehad aspirations. The new movement he sa-id was against all national and Islamic norms and "is a combination of Parcham and Khalq elements."
                                                                  Regarding international interven-
138
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992       . AffillAMIUID              VOL. 5 NO.  4
 tions Dr. Hamed said, the present formation of fronts is a clear indication that the regional and international interventions have been at work, because no thought whatever has been given to regional and Islamic traditions. The regional intervention
 ’    i
 has now assumed a clearer shape with the objective of establishing a weak government in Afghanistan,. Though history testifies that no foreign intervention will ever succeed in Afghanistan, but it is also a bitter fact that under pretence of maintaining security they have always interfered in the country in order to keep the situation tense. The present situation is a clear proof of this fact. He added, "our people have been put at a major test right at this moment. They should be, watchful that the sacrifices of the last 14 years and the blood of their martyrs were not in vain and, should, under .no circumstances/ allow the division . of the country. They should see to it that a representative government is established and the political trading is ended. (BBCPS)
                                                  2
     Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Afghan' President, announced 1 July the formation of a new Islamic Army wherein the forces of all the armed groups would be accommodated. He also announced that militia forces in the country; including that of Rashid Dostum, would be dissolved. The experienced Muslim militiamen woul.<3 be inducted in the army but it would be upto the Defense Minister Ahmad Sha'h Masood as to which kind of role he would give them. He said his government would try to pave the way for a new interim constitution. He supported Kashmiri Muslims but said that th^y would expand their relations with India although India had not supported jehad. Regarding law and order situation he said an elaborate plan for restoring
 peace and order had been chalked out which would be implemented very soon. About the aims and objectives of his government he said his government would endeavor for the protection of Islamic revolution, propagation of Islamic teachings and culture, stability of Islamic system, national unity and cohesion besides upholding territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. (MLM)                   , '
       After handing over power to his successor     Sebghatullah     Mujaddedi
 returned to ‘Peshawar 1 July. (MLM)
 * Street fighting erupted in Kabul 1 July. Smoke could be seen billowing out of the residential area of Maiwand Watt but mujaheddin commanders encircling the district refused to # allow journalists to enter. The witnesses said northern Uzbek militia and a group
 from HIA mujaheddin faction had traded small arms but an HIA spokesman, Kariab,said he was not sure who was involved. "I cannot say for sure who is fighting. We have sent some people over there and are trying to find out", he said adding he was sure HIA troops to the south of the city were not involved. (NTN)
 * Chief of the Military Shoora of Northern Afghanistan, General Rashid Dostum, who is also leader of the Afghan Islamic National Organisation, has sent a message of congratulation to Burhanuddin Rabbani on his appointment as President of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 - Gen. Rashid Dostum, leader of the National Islamic Movement of the northern provinces and Sayyed Mansoor Naderi, his deputy, in a message have congratulated Prof. Rabbani on his election as the President of the interim government in Afghanistan. They have also expressed their complete support of Rabbani's government.
                                                                    In his radio/TV statement ProiT.
139
JULY-SEPTEMBER,- 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 ^abbani has declared a complete merger
    all militia and ethnic forces with the army of the Islamic government. Meanwhile, Abdul Majeed, a deputy to Rashid Dostum While announcing his support of the government has said that the forces under his command are no more militia but a part of the regular army which have come to Kabul by.order of the Defense Ministry. (VOAPS)
                                                 3
    Defense Ministry troops began occupying squares, streets and government buildings in^ Kabul 2 July, encountering little resistance , along the way, as interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani set out to extend his control over the Afghan capital. Soldiers were seen conducting search operations in the grounds of government buildings, schools and some private houses. The aim of the operation, they said, was to evacuate armed mujaheddin who did not belong to the Defense Ministry and also individuals who had taken advantage of the confused situation and had taken part in looting. "There are lots of armed people belonging to no one. They should not be able to roam around with their rocket-propelled grenades and gups, a Rabbani spokesman said. (NTN)
 * Gulzai, a speaker of HIA, . told the BBC correspondent regarding Prof. Mujaddedi's extension of power that the HIA believed the best way to solve the   crisis    in Afghanistan   was by
 adhering to . the Peshawar Accords. The recent bloodshed in Kabul was the result of the violation of these agreements. He said, the HIA would always adhere to these accords. In answer to a question he said. President Mujaddedi was not authorized to form the cabinet or to select new members from HWIA or Uzbeck militia for the Leadership Council. "This is only the authority of the Leadership Council to do so, " he said. The HIA, he said.
condemns membership, of those in the council who have fought against the mujaheddin for 14 years. (BBCPS)
" Eng. Ahmad Shah, the Minister .of Interior, said in answer to a question that the army has started cleaning-up operations in the city in an effort to dislodge the armed mujaheddin groups from their present.positions in which forces fi'oiri the Interior Ministry are also cooperating. These armed units will be sent to posts outside Kabul.
A Abdul Qader Emami Ghori, an observer from the province of Ghor, told the BBC in an interview on the basis" of understanding that existed between the government forces and that of the mujaheddin,     the    Ghor     province
surrendered to the mujaheddin as soon as the Najib government was toppled. He said, "there are about 14,000 troops in Ghor at present which, have formed security posts in strategic points in the province, and government offices are controlled by the Jehad Council of the province." (BBCFS)
*  Fighting, which had erupted between the Shia and Sunni sects of the mujaheddin group in Kabul 2 July, is still continuing. The warring sides are deploying heavy weapons against each other's positions which has caused many casualties. According to military reports many parts of; the city have fallen to the Shia groups of . HWIA and HIA (Mohseni). (TR)
*  In a speech at the Wazir Akbar Khan mosque during Friday prayers 3 July in Kabul the Interim Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani said that in a clean-up operation * armed people who had roamed Kabul at will for the past few weeks would be pushed out of the city "at any cost". According" to another report Afghan government troops, backed by tanks, drove hundreds of armed men f rom ■ Kabul 3 July as a security sweep
 140 -*
JIILY-SEPTCMBER, 1992
IIAMI
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 of the capital continued for a second day. (PT)                      v
 * Talking to The Nation in Peshawar 3 July Sebghatullah Mujaddedj., former Afghan President, said that convening of a Loya Jirgah or a Shoora was a basic point of Peshawar Accord under which he had transferred power to Burhanuddin Rabbani. He said that with the transfer . of pow'er he established a new precedence in the world. (-NTN)
                    5
 " At least 50 persons were killed in Kabul • 4 July and .Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani narrowly escaped injury as forces of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and the 53rd division of General Rashid Dostum traded rocket and artillery fire. A rocket fell 1Q0 metres off the roof in the presidential palace where Rabbani was holding a meeting, killing one bodyguard and injuring two others. Some 300 people in Kabul were injured in the bombardment. Each side blamed the other for firing first. (NTN)
 * Britain says it will assist Iran and Pakistan with 14 million dollars in aid towards the repatriation of the Afghan refugees. The British Secretary for international Development said that the amount is being paid upon a request of the UN Secretary-General. (VOAPS)
 « Some of the mujaheddin groups are of the opinion that the government decision to disarm the mujaheddin will cause more bloodshed in Afghanistan. HIA (Khales) has announced that his group of mujaheddin would riot lay down their arms until a permanent peace was established in Kabul. (TR)
                    6
 *  Qu^buddin Helal, Chairman of HIA | Political Cpmmission, while denying allegations that the latest fighting in Kabul was initiated by the HIA, said it
was true that all HIA positions in and around the city were commanding over Kabul and it could cause agitation in the city whenever it wished but in actual fact thri BlA was for peace and security in Kabul and the latest fighting was the work of those elements who sought their existence in fighting. (BBCFS)
> The arrival in Kabul of Prime Minister designate, Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed, was delayed due to Dostum militia rocket attack on HIA strongholds 4 July and the .InterEm President      Burhanuddin       Rabbani
personally asked the HIA to delay the arrival of its nominee until order was restored in the city. The HIA military sources said that some opportunist elements were' enraged when they saw that the HIA.nominated premier would be received 5 July by an official. delegation headed by the Interim Government President. The sources told ANA in Kabul that these elements had fired rockets on the Afghan Department Store, the Presidential Palace and other residential areas 4 July in order to defame HIA. The HIA retaliated after repeated artillery and rocket attacks of Gelam Jam militia. Meanwhile, the militia again launched heavy artillery fire and traded rockets on the city's sotfchern outskirts 5 July hitting the villages of Bini Hisar, Qalacha, Shewaki, Khairabad and adjoining areas throughout the night. Dozens of houses have been reportedly demolished and scores of people killed or injured. (PT)
- Thei Nation in its editorial 6 July says, apparently what has caused the recent bloodshed is attempts on the part of certain groups at preventing the HIA Prime Minister designate, Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed, from entering Kabul to take over his new appointment. Needless to'say, such senseless use of force will generate more hatred and violence, adding to the people's
141
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     fliGIIANJ[HAO                   VOL, 5 NO. 4
 sufferings and further damaging the political process that . promises democratic elections. The current period in the post-Najib Afghanistan under Prqf. Rabbani . is a particularly sensitive one because during his stipulated 4-month-long presidency he has to hold .elections to finally handover power to the public's elected representatives. The mujaheddin leaders must exercise special caution and restraint at this crucial time so as not £o cause damage to the present runup tb elections. (NTN)             •
                     7
 - Afghanistan new Prime Minister Abdul Saboor Fareed. entered Kabul 6 July to take charge of his assignment. He was accompanied by an armored personnel carrier, cars, trucks and motor cycles filled with mujaheddin of his HIA, armed with automatic weapons and rocket launchers. A crowd of several thousand persons hailed his arrival at the Prime Minister's office with cries of 'Allah-o-Akbar (God is great) and down with cpmmunism and socialism.! (PTj
 «* The Tehran Times said in its editorial 6 July, the events in Afghanistan .. are closely related to national security in Iran and thus any longrterm state of instability in that country endangers Iran's national security. The newspaper said interim Afghan President Burhanu{3din Rabbani faced "serious difficulties" and that his attempt to disarm the mujaheddin and expel' them from Kabul involved a "great deal -of risk". (NTN)
     Burhanuddin Rabbani, the interim President of Afghanistan, warned during an interview that if the mujaheddin in Kebul did not lay down their arms, they will be ousted from the city by means, of force. He also demanded from Najibullah, who is now hiding in the UN offices in Kabul, to surrender himself j to the government for trial. (TR)      '
 "     The     daily     Tehran    Times
 expressed grave concern 6 July that the situation in Afghanistan can threaten the security in Iran*. The paper adds that President Rabbani was facing new problems and his efforts towards disarming the mujaheddin and dislodging them from Kabul will have graver consequences. (TR)            •
                   8
 * Addressing a big public gathering in Kabul 6 July Prime Minister of Afghanistan, Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed said, ,the establishment of an Islamic government in the country was the earnest desire of the martyrs and the present government owed them a lot in accomplishing this mission. He said, "our martyrs laid down their lives in the way of Allah for the restoration of freedom and Islamic identity of Afghanistan and their heirs would accomplish their incomplete goal." (PT)
 - The Afghan Interim President Burhanudd.in Rabbani has demanded of formef Afghan regime President. Najibullah to present himself before the court, reports Radio Tehran. (NTN)
 * Ten US congress members, belonging to the special committee for Afghanistan affairs, have urged upon President Bush to recognize the new government in
 -Afghanistan. The letter in this regard says that the heroic struggle of the Afghan mujaheddin have had a positive role in the downfall of the despotic communist regime and their achievements should be appreciated. It has been added in the letter that though concern over security situation in Kabul can be a factor against the re-opening of the US Embassy in Kabul, more than 30 nations have so far recognized the new government in Kabul. Libya and Iran are among the latter which, by availing themselves of this opportunity, are hoping to establish yet another radical Islamic government in Afghanistan. The
 JUL.Y-5FPTEMRER, 1992
 US, the letter says should jump at the opportunity and open diplomatic relations with Kabul before the mujaheddin victory receives another setback from the various circles which threaten it. (VOADS)
 " Dr. Mohammad Amin Farhang# a former Kabul University professor* regarding reconstruction efforts told the VOA, the establishment of a credible and broad-based government in Afghanistan can bring peace and security in the country. He said reconstruction shoulql be started on the development of the agricultural sector by focusing on the production of raw material for world markets which will in turn develop Afghanistan's foreign trade and foreign currency earnings. This . will also increase possibility of foreign
 investment. (VOADS)
                    9
 * 1 The Afghan Leadership Council has . set * up a commission to determine about the powers of the President and the Prime Minister. A spokesman of the council# Ayatullah Mohseni# said the commissiqn would submit its report to the council in a week. Mohseni said there was no difference of opinion among the leadership council and the solution of the problems. laid , in elections but these were not possible immediately because a large number of refugees had * not returned to Afghanistan. (MLM) **
 ** Addressing a press conference at his headquarters in Char Asyab 8 July# Gulbuddin Hekmatyar of HI A said that the establishment of a strong central government in Kabul was only possible if all impediments in its way were removed. He said that the remnants of communism were still effective and powerful in Kabul. Dostum Militia was holding all the sensitive installations of the city and the country lacked a
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 central authority. Hekmatyar said# he could not tolerate the existing situation wherein ^there were many governments in Kabul. Commenting over the recent rocket and artillery exchange he said# the Gelam Jam militia launched provocative attacks on his positions in a bid to sabotage the arrival of Prime Minister Abdul Saboor Farid in the capital. He warned, if the armed militia groups did not withdraw from Kabul city his party would force them out. He also showed his readiness to discuss the exchange of Soviet POWs. (MLM)
                 10
 *  Ayatullah Mohseni, HIA leader and speaker of the Leadership Council, in answer to a question in connection with the prerogatives of the President and the Prime Minister told a VOA correspondent, the master was under discussion in t,he council and the result would be Aade public within, a few days. He, said that at the end of four months Burhanuddin Rabbani would hand over power to a council of the Ahle-Hal-wa-Aqd which would in turn decide * upon the future Afghan government. "It has been decided in the council to call representatives from the different provinces to decide upon
 the new governmenthe said. (VOADS)
        #
 *  Speaking at a banquet given in his honor in Kabul by Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani the Prime Minister of Afghanistan# Ustad Abdul Saboor, has asked the outside powers to leave them alone to settle their differences. In this regard he particularly mentioned Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran. (JG)
                 11
    A commission has started holding daily sessions to draft an interim constitution for Afghanistan, state television said 9 July. The commission's report will be presented to the 10-member Leadership Council
JIJEY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 headed by Rabbani, sources said. The drafters are expected to come up with answers to the’ vital question of whether future government is to be chosen through elections or by a "Loya Jirgah" the traditional Afghan council.
 (PT)
 » Afghanistan has formally requested for membership of Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO).(NTN)
 « Regarding the formulation of a new constitution     for     the    Islamic
 government, a former Deputy Prime Minister, Sayyed Shamsuddin Majrah said, there existed no central government in Afghanistan and no relation between the center and that of the provinces. The provincial residents could not reach Kabul to express their opinions. The Peshawar and Iran-based mujaheddin, who have now gathered in Kabul, have not yet formed an opinion, or a common strategy what* shape the future government should tak.e. "In my opinion the formulation of a constitution is premature . and there should, first\of* all, be a central government and law and order in the country." In answer to the question whether a constitution was really needed when there already existed a variety of civil rules and regulations in Islam, Majroh said, no doubt the Islamic Code covered all aspects of religious laws, but these wili have to be sorted. out in respect to the present-day requirements and get them endorsed by a viable council. (BBCPS)
                    12
 A The Afghan Embassy in Islamabad has denied reports pertaining to Afghan mujaheddin participation in the war in Kashmir. The press release from the embassy says our friendly relations with Pakistan is based on good neighbordiness, and this should not be interpreted that our relations with other nations were unfriendly. (VOAPS)
 « Mohaipmad Ali Jawaid, the Afghan
                                                                                                  144
 Minister of Planning, who is currently on a visit to Pakistan, said in an interview that Afghanistan has been turned into a gigantic heap of rubble during the 14 years of war and is in bad jieed of reconstruction. It is for this reason that various nations, have been contacted and, "my visit to Pakistan i*s part of these efforts," he said. Regarding the transportation of 50,000 tons of Pakistani relief wheat and another 10,000 tons of UN assistance he said he has contacted a number of Pakistani Ministers and it has been agreed that the wheat will be transported to Afghanistan via Torkhain and Speen Boldak. Regarding the Afghan transit goods in Karachi, he said the Pakistan government has promised to settle the problem shortly. (VOAPS)
                  13
      The Iranian government is desirous of opening consular offices in the provinces of Balkh, Faryab and Nimroze. The Afghan interim government has made it clear to Iran, however, that no such office can be opened without due permission from the central government.
 (BBCFS)                           \
                 14
 **' A. British national who was injured in a mine explosion in Afghanistan over a week ago has died of his injuries in a London hospital. The explosion which occurred near Kabul killed one Afghan on the spot and yet, another Briton received some burns in the blast who is now undergoing treatment. The two Britons were working with a British humanitarian organization , employed by the UN for mine clearing in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 * The Islamic Council of Ulama and Judges which was formed in 1981 for resolving differences between the mujaheddin and the refugees has, in a recent statement, called on the
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGHilNJlH/Ul             VOL. 5 NO. 4
 mujaheddin to settle their problem through mutual dialogue and not by resorting to force* (BBCFS)
 ~ The former Kabul regime ruler Najibullah's status’, as a guest of UN, has risen as a new diplomatic issue; of its kind for the UN in its 47-year-history, reports the BBC. As Najibullah is not a refugee the UN will have to comply with any request ‘'of the Afghan government to hand him over to it. Diplomats in Kabul say that the question of handing him over to the Afghan government will arise when he reaches a country which is prepared to grant him assylum. The recent transfer of power to Prof. Rabbani in Afghanistan, the report said, has reduced the possibility of* Najibullah's free departure out of Afghanistan. (PT)
 « An operation to clear government buildings and streets of armed mujaheddin fighters is proceeding quietly under a new strategy, Afghan interim Interior Minister Eng. Ahmad Shah said in Kabul 12 July. About 1,000 mujaheddin fighters have left for their bases outside the capital and the clearing operation would continue, he said. The Interior Minister said Uzbek militiamen have been asked to remain in one place to avoid possible confrontation and they would be sent to barracks after marching' orders were issued. He said work was underway to raise a 3,000-member . police department to restore order in Kabul and a contingent of policemen is already operating in the city. (PT)
 “ In his first address to the nation 12 July Prime Minister of Afghanistan, Ustad Abdul Saboor Farid, has called for unity among Afghanistan's still feuding factions as the basis for a true Islamic government. "Unity is the call of the martyrs of our five million refugees", Farid said during a national radio broadcast. Opposing religious, linguistic and regional differences
 among us is the task of the new government". He supported elections as the only way to create a strong government. (NTN)
                  15
 -  Rockets and gunfire left at least four people dead and 10 injured 14 July i.n renewed fighting in Kabul. The three hours of fighting broke out near the posh district of Wazir Akbar Khan where Defense ' Minister ’Ahmed Shah Masood and some diplomats live. (PT)
    Prof. Rabbani, the head of the interim government, has said to the BBC correspondent that the peace committee, established recently was working successfully. The maintenance of peace he said, was of prime' importance not only for Kabul but for the entire country, work on which has already started. Another important problem the government was facing, was the scarcity4 of food supplies and fuel. (BBCFS)
 -  After a lull of many days fighting, was renewed in Kabul 15 July in which eight persons were killed. The fighting sparked off when the vehicle, in which Gen. A. Ghaffoor Faryabi of the Dostum militia drove, was fired upon by. an unidentified group. The General himself escaped injuries but two of his bodyguards were killed and another three injured. (BBCFS)
                      I
 *• Eng. Ahmad Shah, the Minister of Interior of the Islamic government, has announced that the cleaning-up operation of government buildings from armed mujaheddin groups is progressing with a new strategy. He said these buildings were occupied by mujaheddin groups after the fall of the communist regime. (VOIRA)
 * Some 89,000 refugees in Pakistan have returned home during the last week. Because of refugee rush the UNHCR local office in Peshawar remained,
145
                                          I
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992           MANJFHfll]                 VOL.  5 NO. 4
 closed' for a whole day and the refugees were forced to. spend the day in the UN premises without food or shelter from the scorching sun. In an effort to relieve the employees from over'-work the UNHCR is planning to open new offices - one each in Kohat and Koram. (BBCPS)
                    16
 -  A high-level Tadjek delegation has visited Kabul for the first time since the mujaheddin government was established after the fall of the communist regime.^ The two sides have agreed to exchange ambassadors between their respective countries as soon as possible. Talks have also been held on the security of their common border and exchange of electric powet from Tadjikistan for natural gas from Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 -  Hujjatul Islam Mazari, a HWIA leader, has declared that the holding of general and free elections in the country was , the only way for the maintenance of lasting peace in the country. He added that the HWIA was of the view that the public have the right to* participate in the fate of their country and this would be possible after the .return of the refugees under the supervision of the UN. Mazari ruled out possibility of general elections
 during the four month tenure of Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani. (VOIRA)
 " General Mohammad Akram, responsible 'for the transportation of goods from the north of the country said, about 50% of the trucks leaving for Kabul do not reach destination. He added, eversince the fall of the Najib regime only four caravans have reached Kabul intact, whereas some 900 to 2,100 trucks have been intercepted by the HIA mujaheddin. (VOG)
                 17
 * There is shortage of•fuel in Kabul. V0A reports as there is ‘no fuel for urban transport, therefore, the people have made long queues to pick a bus in the city. All the oil reserves in Kabul city have exhausted, the sources said.
 (MLM)
 * Russia plans to ask the UN General Assembly to take up the subject of former Soviet POWs in Afghanistan. The Russian Deputy President mentioned the matter during a meeting with '-.he representative of the Russian Family Association for POWs 15 July.- He said Russia is going to ask the UN to set Up
 .a commission for this 'purpose in ah effort -to releasing the prisoners. According to Russian sources some 300 of their soldiers are still in the custody of the Afghan mujaheddin. (VOADS)                             *
                 18
 * The WHO Secretary General has said
 that in the event of conflicts continuing among the* various mujaheddin groups international . assistance, originally allotted for Afghanistan, could be re-routed to other troubled spots. The WHO chief, who has recently visited Kabul, says the WHO is inclined to support the Afghan government in its reconstruction efforts, but peace is a primary condition for reconstruction. "The establishment of health centers is a program that should be given top priority,       vaccinations       and
 familiarizing the; public with the various diseases are also of great importance," he said. (BBCFS)
 * Work on a draft constitution to take the place of that .enforced by 1 the communist regime has been completed. The constitution was drafted by a joint, commission of various mujaheddin groups. i The draft constitution considers;the Leadership Council as the
146
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 highest source of authority in the country. The approval of the prerogatives of cabinet ministers is also the authority of the Leadership Council. The BBC correspondent is of the opinion that the latter clause may cause     friction,     because     the
 organizations that are partaking in the government will, probably, not accept this clause. (BBCFS)
 **. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, in a message to the government of Afghanistan has given her assurance of UN assistance towards repatriation and resettlement of the Afghan refugees. The message says that the commissioner's office is in touch with the Afghan authorities responsible in this connection and is trying to continue the UN assistance with their cooperation.(VOADS)
                                               19
 ** The freedom of speach has suffered a setback every time there is a change of politics in Afghanistan. Now that the Islamic government has been established there, poets and writers are once again confronted with some dangers. Lack of their confidence in the government machinery has caused the reluctance of the Refugee Writer's Association for transferring its offices from Peshawar to Afghanistan.
      Prof. Abdur Rasool Amin, Chairman of the Association, in this respect said, "in my opinion there is no security in Kabul, neither there is any printing facilities as the only decent printing press available has been badly damaged and is, hence, non-functioning. Apart from that the present government policy regarding independent publications has not yet been made clear."
      Mohammad Akram Andeshmand regarding restrictions on broadcasts of Radio Afghanistan says, some amendments were
 introduced on» radio broadcasting right after the establishment of the Islamic government. (BBCFS)
 * Forces of HWIA on the one hand and the combined forces of Ahmad Shah Masood and IIA (Sayyaf) on the other, have started capturing each other's personnel since early this morning . , It is said these events may be connected to Prof. Rabbani's not heeding to pledges he, had given to the HWIA, the members of which believe that he (Rabbani) has changed his stance vis-a-vis the HWIA after a visit to Saudi Arabia. An active member of Supervisory Council said, there were mysterious hands at work to aggravate the security situation. (TR)
                   I
   In Afghanistan draft of an interim constitution has been framed to replace the existing constitution enforced by the former communist regime. In the proposed constitution the Leadership Council has been declared the supreme body of the country. The Jehadl Council or any other official organization will have the authority to frame laws. Such laws will first be approved by the Leadership Council and the final approval will be sought from the President. Cabinet members will be appointed by consensus of the Leadership Council..' It has been made clear in the draft constitution that President of, the country is more powerful and responsible than the Prime Minister. (MLM)
                                                20
 - Regarding the recent armed conflict between the HWIA and IIA in and around Kabul they have both blamed each other for starting the fight. Sa'adat-yar, the press officer of the IIA said, "on the day we had been engaged in a dialogue with the HWIA and some Hazara tribesmen, they jumped at the opportunity, began arming their men and reinforcing their military bases and
147
JULY-SEPTEMBER*- 1992       fliRIIANJfHAO                     VOL- 5 NO. 4
 began straffing the IIA positions in residential areas by meanh of light and heavy artillery. We are quite sure that the HWIA has done so on a tip from the enemies of Islam and territorial integrity of Afghanistan for their own political gains."
      Mohammad Sayyad, Chairman of the HWIA Branch office in Tehran said in an interview, "exactly at 2 p.rt. yesterday the IIA forces started the fighting in the Shia residential area and the HWIA only retaliated in Defense." As for the reason of the fighting he said in answer to a question, "the HWIA and Prof. Mujaddedi had reached an agreement on eight HWIA members in the Jehadic Council, one member in the Leadership Council and three Ministers in the Cabinet. Prof. Sayyaf because of relations with Saudi Arabia and the Wahabi sect functions right opposite to Shia groups and this is why he started the fighting. (BBCFS)
 ” Rocket and artillery fire continued in Kabul 19 July killing at least 60 people and injuring hundreds. Hospital sources said more than 200 people, mostly civilians, had been killed or wounded since fighting broke out 18 July between Iran-backed Shia rebels of HWIA and pro-government forces. (PT)
 " VOA quoting Reuter said that the Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood has said that government has given a day's deadline to the militants of Hezbe Wahdat (HWIA) to leave the city by afternoon, 18 July. "Otherwise, he warned, the Defense Ministry will start operations against them to clear the city of their existence. But,        the
 reports received in Peshawar from Kabul say that armed groups of HWIA were still present in the northern and western parts of the city. Meanwhile, the report said, the Prime Ministe:   of
 the Interim Government, Ustad Saboor Farid,  has also       insisted on the
 withdrawal of the armed groups . from
 Kabul city by 18 July. These forces will be replaced by the joint force of mujaheddin under the Interior and Defense Ministries. (PT)
                  21
 “ Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Afghanistan have signed an agreement on cooperation towards the reconstruction of the roads connecting the three countries together. Radio Islamabad said that the accord was signed 20 July after many sessions of talks among their representatives. (VOAPS)
    Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales has said that he supports the contents of a letter to Prof. Rabbani from Prof. Sayyaf. A spokesman of Khales has said that he (Khales) would support the Rabbani government dismiss all members of the former regime from important government posts and disarm all the militiamen presently in Kabul. (BBCFS)
 " Afghan interim government forces resumed an operation 20 July to clear armed bands from Kabul streets and buildings they unlawfully occupied, officials said. "The operation by joint mujaheddin forces is going on". Interior Minister Eng. Ahmad Shah said. He said about 40% of Kabul had been cleared of unwanted armed groups. (PT)
 * ■ Rival mujaheddin groups in Kabul 'are reported to have agreed on a ceasefire following factional fighting, reported Radio Australia. The pro-Iranian HWIA said the ceasefire had been mediated by Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and Interior.Minister Eng. Ahmad Shah. (PT)
     Rockets and heavy artillery continued to pound West Kabul 20 July as government forces resumed clean-up drive to purge the government buildings of armed personnel of different mujaheddin groups. The entire West Kabul was deserted and all approaches leading to it were blocked. (NTN)
148
 JUEY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 22
 “ Despite the unwelcoming environment in war-torn Afghanistan, the hords of Afghan refugees are rushing back to their motherland under the massive rehabilitation program managed by the UNHCR. Talking to APP in Islamabad 20 July a UN official said the rate of refugees exchanging their ration cards for wheat and money, thus returning to their homes, was quite enormous. The refugees going back are provided with a package of 300 Kg of wheat and rupees 3,300 with some* tarpaulin, per family in exchange of their ration cards. (PT)
 " The Muslim says in its editorial 21 July that with the end of Russian intervention in Afghanistan it was widely hoped that peace would prevail iri that war-torn country. That did eventually happen but the peace was as elusive as it had ever been. After the departure of the Najibullah regime there was tension and strife between the HIA and the Uzbek militia of General Rashid Dostum. Kabul continued to bleed. The latest violence, which is of an obviously sectarian nature, is disowned by one of the main Shia factions and the Sunni IIA is nevertheless blamed for it. Given the sort of intolerance both have towards each other, there can be no progress towards peace in Afghanistan. The only way in which to ensure sectarian peace is for the two to inculcate tolerance towards each other, failing which no end to the bloodshed can be foreseen.
 (MLM)
 *• An Afghan government delegation visited Saudi Arabia and the US recently. Hamidullah Rahimi, the Minister of Finance, who led the delegation, regarding this visit said we were invited to a meeting in Saudi Arabia 4 July which was sponsored by the Islamic Bank. Ministers of Finance of 43 Muslim nations had attended the
VOL- 5 NO. 4
 session. He said, Afghanistan’s membership of the Islamic Bank was suspended during the last 14 years because of the communist regime in Kabul. "They promised every cooperation towards the reconstruction of Afghanistan.(VOADS).
 " After a dreadful armed clash during the last three days between the eight-party alliance of Afghan Shia (HWIA) and Ittehade Islami (IIA) of Aba Rab Rasool Sayyaf the guns have fell silent in Kabul 21 July. Warring parties have agreed to a ceasefire, a spokesman for the Leadership Council said. "All conflicting parties have agreed to a permanent ceasefire", said Ayatullah Sheikh Asef Mohseni. The three-day orgy of "blood-shed claimed over 70 lives wounding more than 400 people. Heavy artillery and rockets were used during the war that caused a heavy civilian loss. (MLM)
 -  Famous Afghan commander Mahmud of JIA, seriously injured in the fighting among different Afghan mujaheddin groups in Kabul, was flown to Peshawar from Kabul in a serious condition 21 July..(MLM)
 -  The Peshawar-based Jamiate Islami publication "Afghan News" in its latest issue has strongly criticized the Indian journalists for their biased reporting on Afghanistan. The paper said that the Indian bias towards the former communist regime, their suspicions of the mujaheddin, their fears about the friendly relations between the mujaheddin and Pakistan and their worries about the spread of revolutionary Islam, influence their reporting. The reporting of an Indian born BBC reporter Depak Tripathi, it said, was a classic example of an Indian journalist's failure to remain impartial and avoid political and ideological traps. According to the paper, the dark picture painted recently by Partap Chakaravati, an
149
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     fllGHAN JHlAfl                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
  Indian reporter of AFP, was another example. "His tales filled with errors of facts seemed calculated to give foreign readers a false impression of. the degree of chaos in Kabul and neglected the Islamic government's efforts to keep the situation under control. For this reason virtually every foreign guest coming to Kabul says that he found the Islamic Afghanistan capital more peaceful than.he had read in the foreign press", the paper said. (PT)
                   23
     More than one fourth of Afghan refugees in Pakistan have already gone back to their homeland with around
  90,000 crossing the border every week. According to the latest reports of the UNHCR 106,489 family passbooks have been exchanged to date during the current year. This makes the strength of refugees returning to their country, to 615,559 in 1992 only. To facilitate the repatriation of the refugees the UNHCR has opened up 16 offices at various places’ along the border. Ten of the offices are located in NWFP. (PT)
  * An agreement was signed between Pakistan, Afghanistan and Uzbekistan in Islamabad 22 July on the construction of roads and railways in oirder to improve trade between the three countries.
      Rahimullah Yousufzai, giving details about the agreement, said Pakistan had always wanted to develop trade relations with the Central Asian republics through Afghanistan. He said, the agreement can only be implemented when security is established in Afghanistan. (BBCPS)
                   24
  " , The Afghan Leadership Council invited mujaheddin parties 23 July to propose names for a new cabinet.
 officials said. Amanullah, an aide to interim president and head of the Leadership Council Burhanuddin Rabbani, said the new cabinet would be formed this month. (PT)
 " The       Leadership    Council in
 Afghanistan has given order to the troops to shoot at sight anyone carrying weapons in ’Kabul. While announcing this. Radio Kabul said that the caretaker President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, had directed the troops to take control of all arms depots in Kabul. He also threatened that a crusade will be pronounced against the party which broke the ceasefire. (MLM)
                   i               .4
 ** The UNHCR chief in Iran says that eversince the fall of the Najib regime in Afghanistan some 1,500 to 2,000 Afghan refugees are returning to their homes daily. The Iranian government also reports that so far 180,000 refugees have returned to Afghanistan. Changez Pahlawan, who has completed some research work on the Afghan refugees said, "a part of the refugee afairs in Iran is managed by the Ministry of Interior which is planning to establish a new department for this purpose which is of concern to me. I have often suggested to the Iranian government that the refugees should be allowed to take the goods with them home which they have purchased with their own money. After all, it is the money they have earned with great toil. But the Ministry of Interior is concerned with security affairs which is void of educational and cultural considerations. Others involved in these affairs are the Sepah-e-Pasdaran, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the organization of Islamic Publicity, and a center for Afghanistan studies. Unfortunately, there is no harmoney in their works." (BBCFS)
                25
 ** The Islamic relief agency of Sudan
150
                    fl
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 has decided to provide food relief to Afghanistan to meet its requirements. In this connection the first flight carrying mainly sugar and other food items reached Kabul 23 July. The regional director of the agency, Abdullah Rajab Hassan told APP'that, in all, 14 flights would operate carrying food items. (PT)
 *• A European Parliament delegation, who visited Kacha Garhi refugee camp near Peshawar 23 July was told that the insecurity of life due to landmines and lack of infrastructure in the war devastated areas of Afghanistan were the main hurdles in the speedy repatriation of Afghan refugees from Pakistan. However, the pace of return of refugees was quite encouraging. (PT)
 A Patients in Farah Province are facing a probable death for want of medical treatment. A refugee from this province reported that there is an acute shortage of both medicine and medical specialists. He said shortage of food supplies is also felt sverely and to the extent that many residents go to sleep without any food at all. (VOIRA)
 A AFP reports that the Leadership Council has called upon all mujaheddin organizations to submit the names of their candidates for ministerial posts to the council in their earliest convenience. The report adds that the decision to this effect was taken by the council 24 July. It is said a new cabinet is to be formed to replace the 34-member cabinet established by Prof. Mujaddedi, over two months ago. (VOAPS)
 A Sebghatullah Mujaddedi has transferred his authority as thie Chairman of the Jehad Council to Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, leader of the NIFA. Mujaheddin sources in Islamabad, while confirming
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 this report, stated that Mujaddedi has taken an appropriate step but he has not taken the approval of the council in this respect. (Radio Meshed)
 A "Colonel Mir Anjamuddin has been named as the General Commander of Air Defense, ,a statement of Afghan Defense Ministry said in Kabul. "He served in Afghan Air Force in the early days of former Communist regime but later left for Pakistan to participate in the jehad", a Defense Ministry spokesman Qanooni said. Apart from this, the Defense Ministry has invited all mujaheddin parties to contribute one armed brigade each to the Islamic armed forces in Kabul. The official sources said that the government wanted to initiate this task from Kabul which would be later extended to other parts of the country. (NTN)
 ** The Afghan Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, has appointed three deputies- at his Ministry. These included Major Abdul Hakeem of HIA (Hekmatyar), Sayyed Mohammad Hassan Ali (Syed Jagran) of HWIA and Gulzarak from IIA. (NTN)
                                               27
 A Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, has said that the task of making security arrangements for the capital Kabul should be entrusted “to the Interior Ministry and the Defense Ministry should concentrate on the formation of an Islamic army and defense of the country's borders, BBC reported. He said that security arrangements would not be possible unless     the    Interior    Ministry
 established an integrated contingent. He said the Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, had failed to establish law and order in Kabul. Thousands of more militiamen have reached Kabul, what to speak of the removal of Rashid Dostum's militia from the capital. He said that: he would not lay down arms
151
Jill. Y-SEPTEMBER * 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 unless an Islamic government was formed in Kabul. (NTN)
                                               28
 * Asadullah Kishtmand, the Afghan Ambassador to Etheopia who had the same post in Iran over a year ago, regarding relations between the two countries said, deep and long-standing relations existed between Afghanistan and Iran from times immemorial. "During my two years of office in Iran I have been endeavoring to bring these relations to a level desired by the two peoples. But there were elements of various standing who, for ethnic, regional, religious and linguistic considerations hampered close relations with Iran," he said. Regarding Iran's intervention in Afghanistan or its support of HWIA, he said that the latter is free in its thinking and actions but is enjoying the full support of the Shia minority in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
                     t
 ** A draft constitution for Afghanistan proposes that a Shoora or Consultative Council elect the country's next president, sources said 28 July. Drawn up by a commission the draft prescribes a two-year term for Afghanistan's head of state, who would take office after interim president Burhanuddin's term expires in October. The next president is to be chosen by at least two-thirds of the Shoora's members.- A leadership council, patterned on the one that now exists, would remain Afghanistan's supreme policy-making body. It says all laws in Afghanistan must conform to Islamic tenets and recognize women's right as ordained by the Muslim faith. It also upholds freedom of movement, association and expression, subject to Islamic principles. The draft interim constitution prescribes Pashtu and Darias official languages           fo
 multilingual Afghanistan. (PT)
 » The Chief of HIA (Khales), Mawlawi Mohammad Younus Khales, in a statement
 in Kabul 27 July has rejected any Coalition   with remnants of the
 Najibullah regime. He criticized former interim     President      Sebghatullah
 Mujaddedi foi; having promoted Dostum and for having extolled him as a "great mujahed" or freedom fighter. He further said that HWIA faction had connections in - the past with the Soviet-installed regime. "They are backed by Iran which wants to have a base in Afghanistan," he said. He asked Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to enter Kabul and work with other mujaheddin leaders. (PT)
 " Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani has urged scholars, experts and intellectuals to . return home and participate in the reconstruction of. Afghanistan, says an embassy press release in Islamabad 27 July. Afghan missions have been directed to establish contact with Afghan experts settled abroad and facilitate their journey by extending all possible help to them. (PT)
                 29
 * Under pressure from radical mujaheddin     organizations,    Afghan
 Television is no longer using any lady-newscasters. When the mujaheddin government was established in April the women staff of Radio/TV were dressing on Islamic principles but eversince some days they have completely disappeared. Mawlawi Walajah Waseeq, Deputy Minister of Information and Culture regarding this change said, the policy on such matters was not yet determined but many groups have demanded a stop to women's involvement in office works and the ruling Leadership Council, in order to avoid further tensions, had to agree on their dismissal.
     Reports say that this was the condition by Prof. Sayyaf for his support of Rabbani's government and Mawlawi Khales has also supported the
152
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGllitNJIHAD             VOL.  5 NO. 4
 move.
     Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the NIFA leader, who is a staunch supporter of women participation in daily life but within the framework of Islamic order, has strongly criticized the decision of the authorities in this respect.(BBCPS)
 - A^auddin Brojardi, leader of the first high level Iranian delegation to visit Afghanistan since the mujaheddin took power last April, said in Kabul 28 July that his delegation had expressed its worries about recent clashes in Kabul between rival mujaheddin groups and that their differences should be ended. He said that Iran wanted Afghans to settle their differences by themselves and did not back any particular Afghan party. The delegation in its meeting with Afghan Prime Minister, Abdul ' Saboor Fareed, and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood assured that Iran was ready to help in the Afghan reconstruction. (PT)
                  30
 - From security point of view the city of Kabul has been divided into 12 zones. All surplus armed forces will be stationed in army garrisons in and around the city.
     Mohammad Nateqi, deputy political chief and spokesman of the HWIA, in an interview in Tehran said, the decision was taken by the• Leadership Council after the recent conflicts between the HWIA and 11A (Sayyaf). He said, on the basis of this decision each of the 12 organizations will look after the security of one of these regions. According to this plan it is hoped security will be established in the city, he concluded., (VOIRA)
                  31
 ** A spokesman of the Prime Minister's office in Kabul Ustad Sayyed who was on a short visit to Peshawar, in an
 informal chat with local newsmen in Peshawar     30 July said the
 recent conflict between the Shia and the Sayyaf groups had been ignited by a third party as both of them denied having fired the first shot. The HIA proposal to hand over the city to Interior Ministry to ensure peace and security had not been accepted and the capital continued to be threatened from the north from where heavily armed militia was pouring in, while men like Babrak Karmal and Mahmood Baryalay were still reported active to create problems for the government. The decision of the Leadership Cuncil regarding militia's pull-out was not being implemented and the people in Kabul were virtually prisoners. Anarchy and arson, loot and plunder had become the order of the day. The spokesman said that the militia was being fully protected and supported by the Defense Ministry. (MLM)
 ** In an attempt        on the life of
 General Baba Jan 30 July in Kabul the driver of the car was killed, army sources said. The attacker, sources said, fired on the car assuming that the General was in the car. (MLM)
 " The Indonesian Ambassador in Islamabad presented a token financial contribution of 25,000 US dollars to the UN Secretary General's special envoy Benon Sevan 30 July for the Afghanistan Emergency Trust Fund (AETF) to support the UN humanitarian and (rehabilitation       activities       in
 Afghanistan. (NTN)
 * One lakh three thousand five hundred and eighty-three Afghan refugees have gone back to their homes in Afghanistan last week. The total number of refugees repatriated in last two years has come around one million. (NTN)
 * Interim Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani arrives in Tehran 8 August on a
153
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfflllANJiHflil           VOL.  5 NO. 4
two-day visit, the Tehran Times reported 30 July* During his first foreign trip since taking power the Afghan President will hold talks with Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashmi Rafsanjani. Iran can provide "transit facilities to Afghanistan for Europe", the newspaper said. "Land-locked Afghanistan desperately. needs sea routes for its imports and exports and for that Iran can be one of the best partners", the newspaper said. (PT)
* The flow of oil and food supplies from the north to Kabul during the coming months will prove to be very important. Rashid Dostum, leader of the National Islamic Movement said, if the supply is intercepted along the route, the responsibility may rest with other organizations. Regarding agreements about the Afghan natural gas he said, talks were progressing in this respect on complete understanding with the Islamic government. In answer to a question Dostum said, "we desire to have friendly relations with the neighboring countries of Central Asia." (BBCPS)
" Over 17,000 refugees residing in Sistan, Balochistan have returned to Afghanistan during the last two months. The officer responsible for refugee affairs in Balochistan said that the trend was on the increase and that the refugees were bringing with them their household appliances, food supplies as well as their personal vehicles. (TR)
                              AUGUST
                                      1
" The HIA (Hekmatyar) in a communique issued from its headquarters in Char Asyab 31 July has said *that war in Afghanistan is inevitable, if elections are not held for the establishment of an elected Islamic government and putting an end to the dramatic situation prevailing in the country.
 The communique said that those defending the criminal Uzbek and Turkman militia forces gave a legal cover to the misdeeds and crimes against the nation. It highly regretted that these communist militia trampled Afghans for 14 years and today were being credited for toppling the puppet regime. The assassins, the communique said, could never be made leaders of the nation and the people of the country are aware of their crimes. It said that such' elements were responsible for the unfortunate incidents in Kabul and were cause of war in the country. (NTN)
                                                2
 *  In a special interview with the Jang in Presidential Palace in Kabul the Afghan Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said that in Peshawar Accord theie was no mention of elections in the country nor all the mujaheddin groups were agreed to it. For such a decision the Leadership Council will seek opinion of 10 persons each from every Afghan province besides representatives of ulama to evolve a common action plan. Regarding Rashid Dustom/ Gelam Jam militia he categorically said that the government had decided that the militia would have to leave Kabul city at all costs and if it refused to do so full force would be used against it. He said the draft constitution of Afghanistan has been prepared and it is with the Leadership Council for formal approval. (JG)
 * Major General Ghulam Rasool Parwani, who had belonged tb the Parcham faction of Najibullah’s Watan Party and was appointed Deputy Chairman of the National Security Department of Military Affairs after mujaheddin took power in Kabul in April, was killed in central Kabul 1 August alongwith his three bodyguards in a car bomb blast. (PT)
154
JULY—SEPTEMBERf 1992
IM
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 A Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi, resigned as acting Health Minister in the cabinet of Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani. Talking to The Nation on telephone on his return to Peshawar he said that he was very disheartened due to frequent interference in his Ministry. (NTN)
                     3
 " About 150 rockets and artillery rounds were fired on Kabul 2 August killing 13 people and injuring 97, state television said. Some 12 surface missiles landed around the airport while three more fell on the residential area of the Char Qala destroying a house, residents said. Defense Ministry officials said the rockets were fired by Hezb-i-Islami fighters against positions held by the Uzbek forces of General Rashid Dostum. An HIA official, however, denied they, had fired the rockets, saying the shells came from an area outside their control., (PT)
 " Afghanistan has called on the international community for urgent supply of food, reports Radio Tehran. IRNA quoted the Minister for Small Industries and Food Control of Afghanistan, Sayyed Sulaiman Yari, as having observed that
 10,000 tons of food stuff was available in the country whereas it needed a total of 80,000 tons. (PT) *
 * The Nation in its editorial 3 August says the manner in which the power struggle has been waged in Afghanistan since the collapse of Najib regime, does not entitle any one of the mujaheddin factions to more authentic ' democratic credentials than the other. On the contrary, each one of them, has amply demonstrated that it could not care less , for consensus, or resolving inter-factional disputes through negotiations. It would indeed be tragic if the mujaheddin factions, despite all
 the efforts by their friends and allies to secure, an orderly transition to a viable political, system, were to fall apart and pave the way for a civil war before they could agree to give their war-ravaged country a hope for a better future. (NTN)
 ** Afghan mujaheddin leader, Younus Khalesv whose group was given charge of the Interior Ministry and the non-existant police force in Kabul, quit the Leadership Council of Afghanistan 2 August saying that acting President Burhanuddin Rabbani has associated communists in running the country. Rabbani also violated the Peshawar Agreement on power sharing between the mujaheddin groups by taking Shia group on the Leadership Council, he said. "I wish to make it abundantly clear that we are not part of the unholy game being played in Kabul and announce the suspension of my party's membership in the Leadership Council", he said in a statement. He also blamed the continued fighting in Kabul on the Defense Ministry which, he said, "controls every other ministry and is itself controlled by the former communists". (MLM)
 " Uzbek militia and HIA (Hekmatyair) traded heavy gunfire and rockets 2 August leaving more than 50 persons wounded, official and hospital sources said, gome of the rockets pounded Kabul airport as well "destroying one aeroplane completely and damaging other three," airport sources said. All flights were cancelled because of rocketing, they said. The Kabul airport has been pounded for the second consecutive day. Meanwhile HIA (Khales) has strongly denied reports that they were involved in the fighting. (MLM)
 * In a special interview with the Jang the Afghanistan Interim Prime Minister, Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed, said the commission set up to prevent possible
VOL. 5 NO. 4
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         JGIIilMHAfl"
 war in Afghanistan has started operating and consequently contacts between the rival factions have been initiated. He said the Afghan President and the Prime Minister have come closer as a result of the commission's efforts aimed at removing misunderstandings between them. He said the Glam Jam militia is the main cause of war and once all the Afghan organizations are united the militia will itself vacate Kabul. There is no possibility of war in Afghanistan, he said. (JG)
 V Afghanistan's Deputy Foreign Minister, Jalil Shams, has resigned, . reliable sources said. (NWT)
                    4
 » The Muslim in its editorial 4 August says that what is happening in Afghanistan is akin to what is happening in the Central Independent States after the sudden collapse of the Soviet Union. In both cases it has been a flash transition. The fly in the ointment is the sectarian disharmony within the Leadership Council. What is of the essence at the moment is that the various leaders realise the right of opposing factions to have a share in the ultimate leadership which emerges in Afghanistan since they are all Afghans     regardless    of     ethnic
 differences or sectarian persuasions.
 How Afghanistan is to be ruled is a matter for the Afghans themselves to decide, which means there should be no interference in their affairs from any quarter whatsoever. However, one thing cannot remain unsaid:  they should not
 allow sectarian differences to rend them asunder as they are threatening to do in Pakistan. Such a course would be suicidal. Right now a concerted effort for the reconstruction of the war-torrl country is of ^>rime importance. Towards this end, it is the moral obligation of the leaders of the different .mujaheddin groups to eschew
 personal ambitions in the larger national interest. (MLM)
 -  The Kabul airport was reopened 3 August after heavy rocket fire 2 August by the forces of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Dostum militia which damaged three planes, airport sources in Kabul said. (MLM)
                   5
 *  Burhanuddin Rabbani, the acting Afghan President, has announced at a press conference that though not mentioned in the Peshawar agreement, he would hold elections in Afghanistan on which issue he had agreed with the HIA (Hekmatyar). Meanwhile, Radio Tehran said that since some parties are oppQsing the elections, it is very difficult to give these elections a legal, position. (MLM)
 -  Quoting a communque issued from HIA headquarters in Char Asyab district 3 August ANA reports that HIA is compelled to direct its mujaheddin to bring under fire all the military aircraft that take off or land at' the civilian airports of the country for military purposes. The HIA warned that if the communist militia is not replaced through a joint force of the mujaheddin immediately then the responsibility. of future consequences would lay on the shoulder of the militia and those who are patronising them. (NTN)
 *  Following an important session, of the Leadership Council in the wake of recent rocket attacks on Kabul the Afghan interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani, while talking to official news agency Bakhtar said, "the Islamic government has the capability and strength to crush the subversive elements who are trying to create security problems or hurdles in the implementation of objectives of jehad
JULY-SEPTEMBERr 1992
U
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 and Islamic revolution", reports state
 television. He said "our jehad was aimed at wiping out communism from our country and the Islamic government does not have any communist person". Rabbani said Defense Ministry had chalked out elaborate plans for the security of Kabul city and wanted it to be implemented through the cooperation of all jehadi forces. The Defense Ministry in collaboration with Interior Ministry had launched operation clean-up in Kabul city to rid the capital of unwanted armed groups of different parties. The official sources said the clean-up sweep was underway and out of total of 12 security zones of Kabul eight had been reactivated. (PT)
 ^ Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed, Prime Minister of Afghanistan, arrived in Jalalabad, center of Nangarhar province, on an unscheduled visit 4 August. Purpose of his visit could not be ascertained. (NTN)
 ■* Dozens of rockets slammed into Kabul at dusk 4 August. Several rockets landed by the -Tapa-e-Bi.bi Mahro where Uzbek militia under General Abdul Rashid Dostum have a gun emplacement. (PT)
 * Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, the former President of the Afghan interim government and leader of NLFA, criticizing Ahmad Shah Masood, . Minister of Defense, has said that he is incapable of maintaining law and order in the country. In a statement Mujaddedi has also blamed the supporters of Ahmad Shah Masood for creating unrest and chaos and has said that the Defense Ministry was interfering in the affairs of other ministries.; The future government should see to it that Masood and members of his JIA are not given any post in the cabinet. (BBCFS)
 - Engineer Ahmad Shah, the Minister of Interior in the Afghan interim government, said that a new security I
 force, comprizing all mujaheddin groups, has been stationed in more than half of the 12 districts of Kabul. He also announced the appointment of Gen. Ghulam Ghaus as the new chief of the Police Department. (BBCFS)
 ** Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani* leader of NIFA, regarding the dissatisfaction of the Kabul residents with the mujaheddin government said, the people * of Afghanistan have suffered a lot during the long war and have plenty of expectation's from the new government. All know, he said, that normalizing the conditions after '14 years of war is not an easy task to manage within a few days ov> even months but the Islamic government was■endeavoring to maintain peace and security as soon as possible.
      Regarding the resignation of Mawlawi Khales and Dr. Najibullah Mujaddedi, Gailani said, minor mistakes do take place but those, are not worth to justify resignations. "They should have remained in the office and should have corrected these mistakes", he said. Gailani added, the' government was doing its best to normalise the situation in the country but some
 mischievous elements were after creating unrest in Kabul and were provoking the citizens against the authorities. "Such actions are aimed at discrediting the mujaheddin government, he said. (VOAPS)
                  6
 * Talking to journalists at one of his military bases in the south of Kabul 5 August Gulbuddin Hekmatyar-called for the immediate closure of Kabul airport and wanred that anybody who tried to create obstacles in this regard would risk dire consequences. He said that Kabul airport was being "misused" for military purposes and "we would not allow it". He warned, "no international flight should fly over Kabul from
157
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AFGIIANJH
 6 August onwards; all domestic flights should be stopped; those who do not want war should comply with this. He said that during the last week some
 7,000  armed troops had been brought into Kabul from the north. (PT)
 " The Prime Minister of Afghanistan, Abdul Saboor Fareed, arrived in Islamabad 5 August on a three-day private visit. (NTN)
 “ According to- reports. from Afghanistan the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has directed all of his mujaheddin to assemble in the suburbs of Kabul and report to their command by noon 7 August. Gelam Jam militia in Kabul have also started stockpiling arms in the city. Meanwhile, communist elements in Mazar-e-Sharif including Babrak Karmal, General Momin and General Rashid Dostum have placed their respective militias on alert. (JG)
 « Various areas of Kabul city again came under heavy shelling at night 5 August .killing six persons, reports Afghan Islamic Press. (NWT)
                    8
 " The visiting Afghan Prime Minister, Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed,. during his meeting in Rawalpindi 7 August with the Provincial Minister for Social Welfare Dr. Anwar-ul-Haq, apprised- him of the current situation in Afghanistan and said that peace can only be restored there and differences removed through implementation of Kabul Accord between Ahmad Shah Masood and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. (JG)
 " Scores of people were killed or wounded in fresh rocket and artillery duels in Kabul between government forces and mujaheddin guerillas 7 August. Government sources said nearly 40 rockets fell in the. area of Kabul airport. A Defense Ministry spokesman
VOL- 5 NO. 4
 said the firing had come from HIA positions southwest of Kabul. ANA, in a report said the Uzbek militia from northern Afghanistan had launched a major offensive against HIA positions and the Hezb mujaheddin returned the fire. "The situation in the city remained highly tense throughout the day, 7 August, and people were running * for their lives in different parts of the city", ANA said. (PT)
                  9
 “ There has been a renewed outbreak of fighting in Kabul between rival mujaheddin factions. A BBC correspondent said .clashes began during the morning in western part of the' city. Later rockets were fired at the city center. A government spokesman said one rocket landed in the grounds of the presidential palace killing eight security guards and injuring 12 others. President Burhanuddin Rabbani has postponed his state visit to' Iran. A spokesman said it was not due to closure of the Kabul airport but for some other pressing engagements of the President. Fierce battle, apparently between the mujaheddin of JIA and HWIA in different parts of Kabul city, began in the afternoon in which , large scale death and destruction was feared, reported ANA. (MLM)
                 10
 " The Shia HWIA and IIA (Sayyaf) exchanged rockets and heavy gunfire for the second consecutive day 9 August causing unspecified civilian injuries. • T The clash, earlier confined to southwestern Mirwais Maidan has now engulfed entire west Kabul. The entire area was totally deserted and it seemed that residents have left their houses. (PT)
     Addressing his first press conference in Peshawar 9 August the visiting Afghan Prime Minister Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed paid glowing
158
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         fl[(ll|j|fiVOL- 5 NO. 4
 tributes to Pakistan for her sacrifices, help and assistance to the struggling Afghan people. Pakistan, he said, cooperated with Afghans like a true friend. The Afghan Prime Minister said that there was foreign interference in Afghanistan     but   he
 could not     single out the   foreign
 country. (PT)
 “ In an informal chat with The Muslim in Peshawar 9 August a former Minister in the Zaher Shah's government Shah Jahan Ghani Ahmadzai said that all the components of the interim government in Afghanistan   were, deeply involved   in
 power tussle and were least interested in restoration of peace there. In their anxiety to    retain power each one   of
 them was prepared to seek the support of those responsible for killing countless Afghans over the last 13 years. He pointed out     that  it   was
 Sebghatullah 1 Mujaddedi who promoted
 Rashid Dostum and supported Ahmad Shah Masood and now he was criticizing them right and left. The ex-Minister was of the view that the Arabs, instead of taking sides in the infighting in Afghanistan, should go and fight for the liberation of Palestine. (MLM)
 * In a wireless message the Chief of
 IIA, Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf, has held the HWIA responsible for the current fighting in Kabul, reports API. He said it is for the third time that the HWIA started attacks on IIA positions at the instigation of others just when talks were in progress for amity and cooperation      between      mujaheddin
 factions. (NWT)
                    11
 *  Kabul witnessed the heaviest rocket bombardment 10 August since the Afghan capital fell to the mujaheddin in April, but the government said it had repulsed the dawn offensive. More than
 650 rockets rained down in Kabul in the
 first 90 minutes of the assault by the HIA. Officials at a hospital run by the ICRC said they had received 70 casualties by midday, bringing the number to more than 300 in the past two days. HIA forces were concentrating their shelling on the east of the city and the airport. HIA commander Ezzatullah said, "we are being bombed by government planes and are returning fire." (PT)
 “ More than 100 military trucks and oil tankers were captured when the mujaheddin of HIA under commander Karim Ahmad, attacked a convoy of the Glam Jam militiamen in Bagram district of Parwan province 10 August, reports ANA. (PT)
 ** Prime Minister of Afghanistan Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed, left Pakistan for Tehran on a two-day official visit 10 August. Spokesman of the premier, Ustad Qaribur Rahman Saeed said, during his stay in Tehran Ustad Fareed would meet the Iranian authorities including President Hashemi Rafsanjani.
 (PT)
                  12
 " The US called 10 August for an end to factional fighting in Afghanistan. "We are increasingly concerned by the continuing fighting in Kabul", said State Department spokesman Richard Boucher, referring to the latest round of fighting in Kabul. "We think that the Afghan people have achieved their freedom with the ousting of Najibullah and the formation of an interim government in April", Boucher said. (PT)
 " The UN Secretary General Boutros Ghali in a statement at the UN 10 August expressed concern that fighting in Kabul has intensified in recent days and is extracting a high toll in lives and property. He said it is highly regrettable that after 14 years of war
159
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO- 4
 in that devastated country, the people of Afghanistan are still experiencing death, destruction and suffering. He confirmed that two Afghan nationals working with the UN habitat program were killed 9 August in a rocket attack on Kabul. (PT)
 " In a statemeht issued in Islamabad 11 August Pakistan has noted with deep anguish and serious concern the fierce fighting between the rival mujaheddin groups in Kabul involving the use of missile's, rockets and artillery which has resulted in heavy and precious loss of civilian lives and property. It said the continuation of armed clashes between different mujaheddin factions would jeopardize the achievements of the glorious jehad and retard the major task of reconstruction and re-, habilitation of the . war-ravaged Afghanistan. The Peshawar accord represents a broad consensus of the Afghan mujaheddin-, organizations. It needs to be broadened further to overcome the present difficulties. The government of Pakistan, therefore, appeals for immediate cessation of hostilities between mujaheddin factions and urges them to initiate an immediate dialogue      for    resolving their
 differences, the statement said. (PT)
 " The ' government forces continued pounding the positions of HIA in a bid to flush them out of Kabul, official sources said. "They have retreated from most of the places and are noV showing very little resistance", a Defense Ministry spokesman said in Kabul. "They have been driven out of Darulamman and Chehil Sotoon areas and the military planes are now attacking their positions in Pul-e-Charkhi area", a Defense Ministry spokesman said in Kabul. Meanwhile, exchange of rock* and. gunfire between HWIA and IIA was continuing for the third day in west Kabul. (NTN)
 * The state visit to Pakistan of the
 Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani has been postponed in view of the developments in Afghanistan, according to a Foreign Office statement issued in Islamabad 11 August. (NTN)
                  13
 * A Defense Ministry spokesman said in Kabul 12 August that government forces repulsed attack on Kabul from eastern Pul-e-Chlarkhi area by the forces of HIA (Hekmatyar). Artillery and rocket battles between them in a three-pronged attack on Kabul by HIA men continued for third straight day. Some 1,500 rockets were fired across the city which hit almost all parts of the city including Presidential Palace, Prime Minister house, Communication Ministry besides residences of mujaheddin leaders, Pir Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and Ayatullah Asef Mohseni. Some of the rockets sla.mmed the airport 12 August causing damage to civilian aeroplanes, the spokesman said. (PT)
 " The Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has welcomed the call of the government of Pakistan for cessation of hostilities in Afghanistan and resolving all the issues through negotiations and further broadening of . the Peshawar Agreement reached between the mujaheddin parties, but spelled out his own conditions for the ceasefire. (PT)
 " The OIC Chairman called on the rival Afghan factions to observe an immediate ceasefire "in .order to spare the civilian population of Kabul and to allow the continued return of Afghan refugees as well as the supply of international relief aid",an official statement said in Dakar 12 August.,(PT)
 * Afghan people are once again coming to Pakistan due to the outbreak- of recent clashes in Kabul, reports BBC. The number of people leaving Kabul for
l6o
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992                                        IlfflllJlNJltlflfl                                       VOL.    5     NO.    4
 Pakistan was increasing day by day and the number of refugees leaving Pakistan for Afghanistan has decreased to a considerable level. (PT)
 * The Nation in its editorial 13 August says that all factions of the Afghan mujaheddin have to work in a spirit of give-and-take and look for non-violent methods for settling their differences. They must all share the spoils of success in a civilized manner under the terms and conditions they agreed upon in the Peshawar Accord before returning home. (NTN)
 %
 " The UN Secretary General Boutros
 Ghali has condemned the latest rocket
 and artillery attacks by guerilla
 forces on Kabul, says a BBC report.
 Meanwhile, the VOG termed the fighting
 as "the fiercest since the conflict
 began 14 years ago. (NTN)
     0
 ** The Muslim in its editorial 13 August says that it is only the Afghans who can negotiate peace among themselves. They are a fiercely independent people and that is the only way in which they will be willing to settle matters. All that can be offered . is the advice that they first evolve a system which assures at least minimal tolerance among the various contenders for power and under its umbrella, work out what the qliantum of power for each group will be. (MLM)
                    14
   Cluster rockets sprayed shrapnel on Kabul 13 August killing at least 100 people and injuring hundreds more, said Defense Ministry officials in Kabul. (PT)
 « Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said in Islamabad 13 August that Pakistan would not allow its territory to be used by unscrupulous elements engaged in undermining the territorial integrity of Afghanistan and the. noble objectives of jehad. He said that the
 violence and destruction caused by the indiscriminate rocket attacks and bombardment on Kabul was a cause of profound grief to all those who had supported the courageous and heroic jehad of the Afghan people. (PT)
 “ The Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has agreed to a temporary ceasefire to evacuate foreign nationals trapped in Kabul following the eruption of fierce battle between the rival mujaheddin groups. (MLM)
 “ Russia has sought Pakistan's help in evacuating all staff from the Russian Embassy in Kabul after one member was killed and two wounded when it came under repeated rocket attacks. Ambassador Yuli Vorontsov said while talking to reporters at the UN 12 August. He said the embassy staff came under specially aimed fire by forces of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. (NTN)
 * The UN Security Council called 12 August on the Afghan Government to take all necessary measures to guarantee the safety of diplomatic personnel in Kabul and to demand an end to factional fighting there. Meanwhile, Russia asked 12 August for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council to consider the situation in Afghanistan. The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a statement urging the Security Council to adopt "all possible measures to ensure at least a temporary ceasefire in Kabul, and to evacuate employees of foreign missions." (PT)
 ** Some Afghans are of the view that the UN ancl Washington should put pressure on different Afghan groups through regional forces like Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia to pressurise Afghans to end war. (MLM)
                                               16
 ** Two members of Kabul's ruling Leadership Council and Uzbek militia
  161
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
MWl                         vol. S  m  t
 leader General Rashid Dostum asked the UN 15 August to intervene to help end several days of bloody factional fighting in Kabul. (MLM)
 *• The former Afghan Interim President Sebghatullah Muj^ddedi, told BBC in an interview in Florida (USA) that the UN may send its force to Afghanistan which should not allow the rival factions to continue fighting and then it should supervise holding of Loya Jirgah. About replacing militia in Kabul he said that from the very beginning I had been asking the Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, to replace it with the mujaheddin forces but he did not do so. (MLM)
 " Kabul airport came under renewed fire 15 August but most of the capital remained quiet, witnesses said. More than a dozen rockets fell on the airport, the focus of recent missile offensive by HIA. One military transport plane was hit by a missile, erupting in a huge fireball seen from some miles away. (PT)
 « Turkey has expressed "deep concern" over the clashes in Kabul and asked for its immediate end, a Foreign Ministry statement said in Ankara 15 August. The statement said all parties in Afghanistan should behave responsibly and form an administration based on national consensus in which all groups would be represented to establish peace and stability in the country. (PT)
 - The Muslim in its editorial 16 August says that it is a terrible irony that the boundless enthusiasm and pulsating patriotism of the freedom struggle in Afghanistan has been replaced by the most selfish and parochial of urges, driving the protagonists of modern history's noblest warriors to senseless violence.. There is no getting away from the fact
 that Pakistan's continued involvement
      •
 in the Afghan, situation is as essential as it is inevitable. (MLM)
                  17
 " The Afghan interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, has said in Kabul that he had dismissed Abdul Saboor Fareed, the fundamentalist Hekmatyar's nominee as Prime Minister in the government, diplomats said. Rabbani
 also told the diplomats that he expelled HIA leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar last week from the ruling Leadership Council. (MLM)
 - A presidential spokesman in Kabul, Yaqoobi, 16 August denied the reports that interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani had sacked Prime Minister Abdul Saboor Fareed. He said "it is not correct., Rabbani had said it plainly that he would not fire anybody unless he himself showed his inability to perform his job". (PT)
 *• A Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad 16 August declined to offer comment on foreign media reports from Kabul that interim President of Afghanistan, Burhanuddin Rabbani, had sacked Afghan Prime Minister Ustad Abdul Saboor Fareed. "This is purely an internal matter of Afghanistan and our declared policy is against interfering in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan, and for that matter any country", he said. (PT)
 " Talking to a Radio Pakistan representative 16 August, Secretary General Foreign Affairs Akram Zaki, clarified that Pakistan shall never allow anyone to use its .territory against Afghan government. (NTN)
 ~ More rockets slammed into the airport and residential areas in the east of Kabul and around the Presidential Palace. Five rockets hit the Russian embassy in the south and
162
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         flffilMNJtHIlfl           VOL.  5 NO- 4
an embassy official said the compound had been targetted deliberately. Meanwhile, Hekmatyar has offered tq, hold his fire for one hour to allow foreigners to fly out, but insisteid no other planes should use the airport, closed for 10 days. (PT)
        , 18
*  The Afghan government has formally.
requested the UN for help against Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. Meanwhile, a statement by the Afghan Foreign Ministry, broadcast by Kabul Radio twice 16 and 17 August, expressed its dissociation with the demand Of militia leader General Rashid Dostum that UN should send its force to end fighting in Kabul. The statement said that the. Afghan government was not a party to the demand as it was powerful enough to overcome the situation. (JG)
*  A Defense Ministry spokesman said in Kabul 17 August that a 50-tank attacking force belonging to HIA party led by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar was repulsed by Government troops supported by rocket fire and jet strikes. A Defense Ministry official said that a preemptive strike by government jets had destroyed the runway, at the former Soviet military air base now under the control of Hekmatyar at Shindand. In retaliation helicopters flown by Hekmatyar pilots shot up the civilian airport at Herat, he said. The official said that Hekmatyar was planning to transfer his jets from Shindand to the recently extended air base in Jalalabad from where he could easily bomb the capital. (PT)
*   The Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said that violation of the Peshawar Agreement by Burhanuddin Rabbani would render him unseated and he could not rule the country for his remaining tenure, reports ANA. He said that coalition on the part of Rabbani with the communist forces was a clear
  violation of the Peshawar Agreement and for that reason Prof. Rabbani lost his status to be the President of the interim government any more. (NTN)
  - The Nation in its editorial 48 August says that the brutal attack on Kabul by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's HIA, has virtually put a seal of death on the .-fragile coalition oftmujaheddin groups who had earlier decided to share power on the basis of a formula called the Pieshawar Accord. The reason why he is doing it, he says, is that Rabbani has not yet ousted the Uzbek militia that Rabbani’s deputy and the present Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, brought in for Kabul's defense. His posture is that the former pro-Najib forces, against which the Afghan jehad was launched, cannot be given any role, including the role of defense of Kabul. (NTN)
  •* The Pakistan Times in its editorial 18 August says,           it  is    un-
  fortunate and rather tragic that the internecine warfare is continuing in Afghanistan. The capital city, Kabul, has constantly remained under attack, with rockets and shells pouring down on it and causing considerable loss of life and property. Taking a clue from Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif's call to the UN to take immediate steps for stopping the fighting in Kabul, the Afghan President has also appealed to it for urgent intervention so that the hostilities can be brought to an end.
   (PT) .
  ** The in-charge of political affairs in the US Embassy and the embassy's First Secretary in Islamabad met the JI parliamentary leader Liaqat Balouch 16 and 17 August with the request that JI leaders exercise their influence over Gulbuddin Hekmatyar for allowing at least two days, instead of one hour,for evacuating the US and the European diplomats from Kabul, informed sources
163
 /
VOL. 5 NO. 4
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 said. (NWT)
19
 * In a policy statement in the National Assembly in Islamabad 18 August the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, declared that the unity and stability of Afghanistan was of "vital impbrtance to Pakistan". Pakistan was desirous of strengthening state-to-state relations with Afghanistan on the basis of internationally recognized principles of sovereign equality, noninterference and mutuality of ' interests. Pakistan would not take sides with any mujaheddin group in Kabul. (PT)
    Government troops and mujaheddin loyal to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar exchanged artillery fire to the south and east of Kabul 18 August but calm had returned to the capital, witnesses said. All main roads out of the city were reported open for the first time in more than a week and many foreigners evacuated the capital. The French embassy's7chancellery building in Kabul was damaged in a rocket attack. 140 embassy staff were, however, injured in the attack. (PT)
 ** The US has initiated extensive efforts for a ceasefire in Afghanistan. A US Embassy spokesman said in Islamabad 18 August that they were contacting all the concerned agencies and individuals. However, he declined to elaborate. Discussions were held between US Embassy and Pakistan Foreign Office in the context of establishing peace in Afghanistan, the spokesman said. (JG)
 - The European community arid its member states have, in a statement, expressed their deep concern over the resurgence of in-fighting in Afghanistan and have condemned the loss of life, particularly among the unarmed civilian
 population. They have called on all those involved to put an immediate end to the fighting and to enter into negotiations to seek a consensus. (NTN)
 " A Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman in Beijing has called on rival factions to end bloodshed in Afghanistan and resolve their differences through negotiations. (JG)
 - In a letter handed over to Pakistan's JUI Senator Maulana( Samiul Haq by a special messenger 18 August the Afghan President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, said that he was facing miserable situation after the barbaric attack by HIA on Kabul city. He said that HIA was using such latest weaponry which was never in the use of mujaheddin during 14. years of war against the communist regime. (NTN)
 *  In a press statement in Peshawar 18 August former caretaker President of Afghanistan, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, has strongly condemned the continuing brutal rocket attacks on Kabul by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's forces saying that these are aimed at usurping the lawful and legitimate civil authority in Afghanistan. He stressed that it was essential that non-aligned agents of peace and justice take effective steps to control the situation, and curb the activities of the disruptive forces. "We must, seek necessary help of the UN and OIC countries in settling, through negotiations, issues of national importance", he said. (PT)
 *  India and Pakistan during second round of talks in New"'Delhi between foreign secretaries J.N. Dixit and Shaharyar Khan, have voiced their concern at the extremist violence in Afghanistan, reports AIR^_.Both agreed on the need to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Afghanistan. (NTN)
 " Foreigners, including the UN
164
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 officials based in Kabul, have started pulling but of the troubled -city^ Meanwhile, there was no word about the fate of former President Najibullah who had been in UN custody since the coup against him. All those contacted on the issue, were tight-lipped. (MLM)
                                              20
 " A foreign office spokesman at his press briefing in Islamabad 19 August refuted the accusation of the Afghan /Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani that large quantities of arms were reaching Afghanistan from Pakistan for use by HIA faction of mujaheddin led by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. "No agency or department in Pakistan acting on behalf \3f Pakistan government is supplying any . weapons to any group or leader in Afghanistan", he said. Pakistan was,, pn the other hand, using its moral influence on the Afghan government to initiate a dialogue for reconciliation under the Peshawar Accord so that peace returned to Afghanistan. (PT)
 * Government' troops, spearheaded by mujaheddin troops of JI faction, under the personal command of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and including a coalition of northern forces under former- Uzbek militia General Abdul Rashid Dostum, launched a massive three-pronged attack against HIA mujaheddin positions commanded by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, government sources in Kabul said. Hekmatyar has said he would continue the missile offensive in Kabul as long as Dostum's Uzbek militia remained in the capital. (PT) ---------
 - Talking to reporters at Parliament building in Islamabad 19 August Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif called upon the warring factions of -mujaheddin around Kabul to rise to the occasion and help restore peace in Afghanistan. He said Pakistan was ready to play its role in bringing peace in Afghanistan. In this connection it has established
 contact with the Afghan ' Pre’sident Burtianuddin Rabbani and has offered its services to help and play some role to secure restoration of peace to the country. (PT)
                   21
 * Afghan government troops have launched a main attack against the HIA mujaheddin fighting in streets to break the siege around Kabul, reports VOA. Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani, whiie addressing the nation on Afghanistan's Independence Day 19 August, once again expressed his resolve to crush Hekmatyar. When he was delivering his address, rockets fell around the Kabul Radio and the home of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood. Meanwhile, according to AIR, HIA (Hekmatyar) said their fighters had
 repulsed a . government offensive
                                      \
 inflicting heavy casualties. Agencies .say an ammunition dump of Gelam Jam militia 20 August caught fife when hit by a rocket at Tappa^e- Nadir Khan near Kabul. (NTN)
 “ According to information collected by The Nation correspondent, Shamirn Shahid, at least 11 out of 35 ministers in Kabul have shifted to Peshawar while five more ministers have taken shelter somewhere else in Pakistan. Among the newly arrived ministers. Engineer Ahmad Shah Interior Minister, Mawlawi Arsala Rahmani, Religious Affairs Minister, Abdul Qayyum Education Minister, Dr. Shah Rukh Gran, .Minister for Power and .others are prominent. Even deputy to the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani, Syed Noorullah Emmad has also shifted to Peshawar; (NIA)
 » The absence of former Afghan President Najibullah was confirmed by the UN offices in Kabul where he had been staying since April. However, there were conflicting views regarding the presence of Najibullah. According to
165
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992          AfGIIANJ[1AI)              VOL.  5 NO. 4
 __________________________________________________________ __________\
 one view, he had been shifted to Mazar-Sharif where he was reportedly living as a guest of General Rashid-Dostum. According to a second view Najibullah has sneaked into Pakistan along with the volunteers of UN offices and is now residing in Mardan while the third viewpoint is that he has gone to India. (NTN)
                    22
 " The Afghan government's military offensive against opposed mujaheddin forces came to a halt 21 August. A government spokesman said that no order from Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood
                 . I
 had been given for the government troops to persue their face-to-face engagement with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's HIA mujaheddin. Frontline government mujaheddin are puzzled about the postponment of the operation in its third day. Informed sources said that the government was calling up •reinforcements from . the coalition forces of northern Afghanistan led by General Abdul Rashid Dostum. One JI commander cited the — loss of innocent civilian lives in the contested outskirts of Kabul as the reason for the halt. (PT)
 AIn a message to Iranian President Akbar Hashmi Rafsanj^ni 20 August the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani appealed for badly needed fuel supplies and other aid, Iran's IRNA> news agency said'7/ (PT)
 « A four-member, Afghan delegation comprising Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, Engineer Ahmad Shah, Noor Ullah and Kerzai called on the Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Lahore 21 August and conveyed him a message of Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani. Prime Minister assured full support and help to the Afghanistan government in maintaining peaceful conditions there. (PT)
 - In response to mediatory efforts of Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khales and Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, who sent him a letter, the Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar made it clear that he was having, no differences with any Islamic Party but was fighting a war against "Communist Militia" which is the main reason for the uncertain situation in Kabul, HIA sources said. Hekmatyar said that he favored convening a meeting of the leadership .council for discussing ways and means for removal of the militia forces from Kabul. But before ^convening the meeting Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani should announce the date for the removal of the uncivilized militia forces from Kabul. He said in this connection he was ready for talks with all mujaheddin leader,s. (NTN)
 " Talking to newsmen in Lahore 21 August Pakistan's former COAS General (Retd) Mirza Aslam Beg said the present deteriorating situation in Afghanistan was the outcome of an international conspiracy. Certain forces do not want the promotion of Pakistan's relations through Afghanistan with the liberated Central Asian States for fear of establishment a strong Islamic Block. The very elements rejected by the Afghan mujaheddin have been imposed on Kabul with the result that the prospects of peace are not visible there in the near future. The present fighting is for Kabul but the next fighting will be for the division of Afghanistan into two parts, he said. (JG) '■
 » In an interview with the BBC the Afghan Minister for Refugees Rahmat-^ ullah Wahidyar has said that the Afghan refugees should not Return in bi^ number to Afghanistan this year because of severe food shortage and other-problems. According to a BBC report, as many as 10,000 Afghan refugees were returning to their country from Pakistan and Iran every week. (PT)
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
VOL- 5 NO- 4
 *  About two million Afghans have returned home from Pakistan and Iran in history's biggest refugee repatriation, UN officials said in Quetta 21 August.. (PT)
                   23
 *  In keeping with the policy of the government to remain neutral in respect of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan and not allow its soil to be used by any faction of Afghan mujaheddin against its rivals, a policy directive .contained in a circular letter has been sent to all the organizations, official sources said in Islamabad. The concerned off^tial agencies, according to reliable sources, have been directed to keep a strict vigilance over the activities x of all the Afghan organizations and ensure that none of them sent any equipment, arms or any type of assistance to any of the warring factions inside Afghanistan. (MLM)
 - . UN sources in Kabul say the government and the HIA group have reached agreement in principle on a temporary ceasefire to. allow the ■'evacuation of foreign diplomats, reports the BBC. A detailed proposal was handed to the government in Kabul and to the representative of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's HIA in Islamabad, A UN statement said. (PT)
 « According to the BBC the weekly Economist says that Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's main asset or quality is that he is firmly committed to making Afghanistan an Islamic State. This quality of his had/made former President of Pakistan General ziaul Haq his captive.
 (NTN) *
 * In a declaration issued by HIA (Hekmatyar) the militia forces^ have been warned for the last time to vacate the Afghan capital within a week and
 surrender to the mujaheddin forces otherwise Hezbe Islami would suggest exemplary punishment , for them. After the expiry of this period the HIA would consider the announcement of general amnesty for the supporters of communist regime as null and each and every commander and general would be awarded exemplary punishment. It was made clear in the declaration that peace could not be maintained in Kabul till the complete ouster of the militia. (NTN)
                  24
    The fighting has again erupted in ■Kabul 22 August after a brief truce pact agreed between Afghan government and HIA, (Hekmatyar), reports PTV. Meanwhile-, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar told a peace delegation 23 August that his war was not against the JI but against the remnants of the past despicable regime and JI should pin-point their places in Kabul so that these are not attacked. He   said Burhanuddin         Rabbani should
 dissociate himself from the notorious militia and there will be no difference between HIA and JIA. He said that if Rabbani wants our ceasefire with the militia forces then he as President of Afghanistan should announce date for the  eviction  of          all the communist
 forces from Kabul. As soon as the date for the expulsion of the remnants of communism is announced we should hold discussions for their disbandment at the  forum of  the Leadership Council.
 (PT)'
                         \
 * A, spokesman of the Pakistan Embassy
 in Kabul has contradicted the BBC report that the rockets had injured two Pakistanis. All personnel at Pakistan Embassy in Kabul were safe and only the outer wall     of          the  Ambassador's
 residence had been partially damaged by stray rockets, the spokesman said. (MLM)                    f
 * The Afghan Government in a
letter
 july-sep|ember, 1992
 delivered to the UN office in Kabul 23 lAugust has asked it to hand over former president Najibullah, VOA said. The jAfghan Foreign Office spokesman confirmed th^t Najibullah was still in
 i -                          \
 the UN compound. The spokesman Said they wanted to keep the former President safe until the situation returned to normal ancj, then to deal with    him   in      accordance ~ with
 international law. The spokesman said it . was understandable that Afghan people would want Najibullah to be' tried. (MLM)
 - In a telephonic interview with VOA, Pakistan's Secretary General Foreign Affairs Akram Zaki has said that Pakistan is seriously concerned over the infighting among Afghans. "We want an end to war, restoration of peace and reconstruction of Afghanistan", he said. Akram Zaki observed that Pakistan government has sent messages to all the parties and influential people in Afghanistan that the internal problem be resolved through negotiations and fightings should be stopped. (NTN) *
 * Speaking as chief guest at the concluding session of I the two-day international Ulema conference in Islamabad 23 August Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif said that he was of the firm view that solution of Afghanistan should come through the Afghan mujaheddin organizations. Being
 ensured of its ' future "we tried to wrest back the issue from the UN and through our concerted efforts. Peshawar Agreement was reached in April through the broad consensus of the Afghan jehadic organizations". The logical conclusion he said, was not possible under the UN. Nav^iz Sharif said thht Pakistan was as much obliged to take steps as' other Mhslim countries to protect the 1 integrity and solidarity of Afghanistan. (PT)
 * At least 30 persons were killed in
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 fresh Kabul fighting, reports PTV. Kabul Radio said the situation inside Kabul was desperate in the wake of t,he latest shelling which set ablaze tl(ie country's premier military academy. AIP said the government forces under the command of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood had recaptured 1 the most important strategic height Kohi Ashamayee overlooking the entire city. Radio Kabul said government troops regained control of the Dogh Abad and Chehelsatoon areas after four days of fighting which left 43 Hekmatyar followers dead. It made no mention of government losses. Meanwhile, HIA (Hekmatyar) said they had "defeated decisively" Uzbek militia in Chehelsa-I toon. (PT)
 * An informed source told The Nation correspondent that a two-hour meeting presided over by President Ghulam Ishaq Khan in Islamabad 24 August and attended by Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, COAS Gen. Asif Nawaz, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mohammad\Siddique Khan Kanju, Secretary General Foreign Office Akram Zaki and Foreign Secretary Shaharyar Khan, reached' the consensus that the Government of Pakistan will continue vits efforts for implementation of Peshawar Accord for establishment of peace in Afghanistan. (NTN)
 " UN Secretary General Boutros , Ghali in a statement issued by his office 24 August called fox! an end to hostilities in Kabul. He said that two staff members working with Habitat, the UN centre for human settlements, were killed 23 August during a rocket attack on Kabul. The two were not identified by him. "It is crucial that the parties to the conflict lay down their arms and begin a dialogue, at \Oi)ce so as to find a solution that w<juld bring peace and Security to their war-torn country", he said. (MLM) — -
 • In a message to Afghan mujaheddin.
168
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992
VOL. 5 NO. 4
 broadcast by Radio Payam-e-Azadi 24 August, the Chief of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that certain countries were conspiring to dislodge and eliminate one by one from Kabul the powerful mujahed forces. For their nefarious interests they were uniting communist militia and providing it their political, moral and material support. These countries, he said, were afraid of restoration of peace- and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and wanted to plunge it into a further war. (JG)
                    26
  " The HIA (Hekmatyar) and the Afghan' Government forces launched infantry offensives against each other's positions in southern Kabul 25 August backed by fierce artillery and rocket bombardments. The Afghan Defense Ministry said the Hezb leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar has also claimed heavy casualties. The militia forces having been deprived from food, electricity and water are now either committing Suicide attacks on Hezb positions or escaping from their basis. It is learnt that the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood have also taken refuge in the outskirts of Kabul with the former having gone to near Meer Bachakot in the north and the later somewhere in Bagram. The civilian death toll in the city has risen to 1,800 in just two '* weeks. More than 1,20,000 of Kabul's residents have fled. (PT)
  i
  '  * The  Minister of State for Foreign
     Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju told the National Assembly 25 August v that Pakistan Government was making every effort to help Afghan Government in restoring peace and normalcy in Kabul and was in close contact with the later at the highest level. He said since the assumption of power by the mujaheddin in Kabul, we have supported
 the legitimate Government of Afghanistan and not any particular group or leader. (PT)
   Ex-Afghan Parliamentarian, Fatinul Mulk Nang Yousafzai, in a statement to ANA, has expressed his. concern over the propaganda of the world press against HIA , of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. He said that the • present regime in Kabul was not a government of the mujaheddin but a regime controlled by the militia. He said that naming a militia regime as an Islamic Government by some Muslim countries is either their ignorance of true facts or these Muslim countries were succumbing to outside pressure from imperialist forces. (NTN)
                 27
 *» Talking informally to newsmen at a reception at his residence in Islamabad 26 August the US Ambassador in Pakistan Nicholas Platt said that any faction of Afghan mujaheddin based in Pakistan which was engaged in fighting in Kabul should be prevented from doing so. He said therje was peace all over Afghanistan except Kabul just because of the activities of Hekmatyar's group of mujaheddin. He said that his country and Pakistan were in close and constant touch with each other on the grave situation in Kabul. (PT)
 * A *■ Foreign Office spokesman said in Islamabnad 26 August that Pakistan has called for a ceasefire in Kabul from 12 noon on August 27 to seek ways and means for the resolution of current differences regarding the implementation of the April 24 Peshawar Accord. (NTN)
 « Talking to APP in Islamabad 26 August the Federal Minister for States and Frontier Regions, Sardar Yaqub Nasir, said at least 35,00^ new Afghan refugees have arrived in Peshawar from Kabul while 1.15 million refugees have
169
VOL- 5 NO. 4
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 gone back to various provinces of Afghanistan. (MLM)
 ~ In an open letter to UN Secretary General 16 August the Movement of National Unity of Afghanistan said that since the sabotage of the UN peace process in April 1992 each of the foreign sponsored organizations had been intriguing to work for its own leadership. The UN was suggested to resume its good offices for resolving the on-going conflict through peace process already persued by its special envoy "as the Peshawar Accord had failed to solve the Afghan problem. Therefore to avoid further bloodshed the UN involvement in the politi*cal process of Afghanistan is all the'more imperative for a just and speedy-peaceful solution of the conflict", the MNUA said. (PT)
                                            28
 * In a wireless message to Maulana Samiul Haq 27 August the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said that he had put forward three conditions to Burhanuddin Rabbarti for maintaining peace in Afghanistan' viz, militia forces be disarmed and withdrawn from Kabul, Generals of Parcham Party be deposed and elections be held. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar made it clear that he was not fighting against any of the mujaheddin factions but against the militia forces which were a constant threat to the lives and properties of the innocent Afghans. He said that HIA was being defamed by the Western media whereas the war had been launched by militia forces and HIA was just defending its positions. He said that HIA and JIA had also reached an accord on disarming and removal of the militia forces but unfortunately the Peshawar Accord was yet to be honored by some of the mujaheddin factions. (NTN)
 « The Afghan government announced a
 temporary unilateral ceasefire in Kabul 27 August to allow foreign diplomats to leave the city, reports BBC. A presidential spokesman said in Kabul the leader of HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar had signalled his readiness to observe the ceasefire call. (NTN)
 ~ The Afghan Government has said that it would not agree to any ceasefire with HIA of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar unless it surrenders all of its bases, reports BBC. A presidential spokesman in Kabul said, "any ceasefire will be meaningless as HIA forces will use the opportunity to rearm and start shelling again. (MLM)
 " Addressing a news conference in Islamabad 27 August the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Siddiq Khan Kanju, said the warring groups in Afghanistan have accepted the mediation offer by the Government of Pakistan to bring about a reconciliation between them and have conceded to its request for a 72-hour ceasefire to enable the goodwill mission from Islamabad to reach Kabul. He said that the Prime Minister had instructed him to lead - the mission which would leave any time after the ceasefire went into effect. (MLM)
 " Heavy fighting again erupted in Kabul 27 August in the afternoon following the unilateral ceasefire announcement of HIA (Hekmatyar) in response to the appeal of the Government of Pakistan and the World Muslim League for a 72-hour ceasefire from 27 August to work out a negotiated settlement of the differences between the warring mujaheddin groups, reports ANA. The militia initiated attacks on HIA positions from the Balahisar fortress and Tappa Maranjan top hill and hand-to-hand fighting was continuing at these two fronts. A delegation of the World Muslim League scheduled to visit Kabul 27 August in
170
JULY-SEPTEMBER * 1992   flffillUN llfflllfl
  the afternoon cancelled its trip to Kabul at the eleventh hour due to break out of "renewed attacks of the militia" on HIA positions.. A visit of the Pakistan’s good offices mission proposed to be headed by the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, was also hampered due to fresh clashes. (PT)
                  29
  ** The daily Jarig in its editorial 29 August says that following the defeat of Soviet aggression in Afghanistan the US, Russia and other big powers started conspiracies to prevent the establishment of an Islamic government there. Under the guise of a broad-based government, ' attempts were made to re-impose the former King Zahir Shah and encourage participation in power of the communists. Unfortunately certain Afghan groups also started using the communists for consolidating their stay in power otherwise the judicious and effective modus-operandi for transfer of power under the Peshawar Accord was the establishment of an impartial interim government to hold elections within the stipulated period and then transfer power to the group emerging successful in the elections. But instead of this, plan was put under way for participation in power by offering ranks in Kabul to Dostum militia and their supporters. And now when groups opposed to the government retaliate the j attacks by the communist militia it is considered war against the government because the militia has become the part I of the government and is an occupying force in Kabul making the situation very difficult and complicated. The fact of the matter is that so long as communist militia exists there can be no peace in Kabul. (JG) *
  * The HIA (Hekmatyar) military sources told ANA in Kabul 28 August that Gelam Jam militia is violating the
 VOL. 5 NO. 4
 announcement of a ceasefire for 72 hours to enable HIA (Hekmatyar) and the Government of Burhanuddin Rabbani to end their differences through negotiations. The militia attacks on HIA     positions     are    continuing
 unabatedly, the sources said. (NWT)
 y Dostum militia airforce has severely bombed HIA (Hekmatyar) strongholds around Chahar Asyab, Bagrami and Chehl-satoon around Kabul 28 August violating 10-hour ceasefire for diplomats to leave the area, reports ANA. The air raids by militia aircraft from Mazar Sharif continued £ill late at night, eye-witnesses said. The HIA retaliated the attack with rocket fire at Kabul airport, Balahisar, Presidential Palace and other military targets. (NWT)
 *  Some 3,100 Hindu and Sikh refugees fleeing the violence in Afghanistan have entered India and 70,000 more are trying to secure visas in Kabul, the PTI reported 27 August. (MLM)
 *  A rocket slammed into Kabul airport early on 28 August engulfing in flames a Russian military transport plane that had arrived just after dawn to evacuate diplomats from the Afghan capital taking advantage of ceasefire announcements by HIA and the government. Russian commandos aboard the plane wer,e able to escape but four were injured. Three of the injured flew out on one of
"the other two. planes. (PT)
 " Pakistan's Minister Qf State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju> held talks with the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani on the prevailing situation in Kabul soon after his arrival in the evening 28 August. (PT)
                 30
 - President Burhanuddin Rabbani and
171
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992        JGIII1NJ[HAO               VOL. 5 NO- 4
 Gulbuddin Hekmatyar have agreed to a ceasefire and enter into negotiatons within the framework of the Peshawar Accord. This follows two hours of talks between Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mohammad Siddiq khan Kanju and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar near Kabul 29 August. Later talking to newsmen Siddiq Kanju said that he had come to Afghanistan as special envoy of Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif and he is happy that both sides agreed to a complete ceasefire and enter into negotiations to sort out their differences. (PT)
 " Following voluntary return home of nearly one million Afghan refugees from camps in the NWFP, Additional Commissioner for Afghan Refugees, Fareedullah Khan, told AFP 29 August that the government has decided to close any camp whose population fell to less than 2,500 and the remaining people would be shifted to other tent villages to reduce the cost of looking after them.
 (NTN)
 *• In an interview over telephone from New York with Razi Ahmed Rizvi of VOA's Urdu Service broadcast 29 August the Pakistan's envoy to UN Jamshed Marker has said that his country gives full support to the legitimate government that has been established in Kabul. Pakistan appeals to all the parties to have peaceful reconciliation according to the April's Peshawar Accord and above all Pakistan will not allow its territory to be used in any manner to destabilize the present government in Kabul. (NTN)
                   31
 A Talking informally in the Parliament in Islamabad 29 August the Amir of JI
 Qazi Hussain Ahmed said that the present government in Afghanistan cannot- run for long as none of the Afghan mujaheddin except Burhanuddin Rabbani is in Kabul at the moment. As
 against this the colleagues of Babrak Karmal, Asef Dilawar, Nabi Azimi, Baba Jan, General Rashid Dostum and the activists of uncultured militia responsible for immense atrocities on the Afghans, are the participants of government in Kabul. He said that under a US conspiracy Gulbuddin Hekmatyar was kept out of power but this conspiracy has failed. The promoters of this conspiracy, he said, were responsible for the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. (NWT)
 A Talking to newsmen in Singapore 30 August the Pakistan's Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Mohammad Siddiq Khan Kanju, said that militia and the HI A had agreed on token withdrawal of their men "within a week to provide space for a buffer zone". Initially seven to ten thousand men would be drawn from Nangarhar, Parwan, Logar and some other . provinces where there was complete peace and shoora were working there effectively. For immediate deployment of buffer force, Nangarhar province administration had agreed to provide 1000 to 4000 buffer force under the defense ministry. (NTN)
 * The last Russian diplomats comprising 50 members of staff and their families pulled out of Kabul 29 August and left for Mazar-e-Sharif on way to Moscow. (PT)
 A Talking to .newsmen before his departure for Singapore at the Islamabad airport 30 August Prime * Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif welcomed the Pakistan brokered peace in Kabul( and described it the happiest event1 after the liberation of Afghanistan. He said Pakistan made a tremendous1 contribution in bringing about ■ ceasefire among the two warring factions in Kabul. (MLM)
 A A Pakistani driver escorting Pakistan delegation pursuing peace in
172
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992         flfGIIHIjJlHilO           VOL.  5 NO. 4
Afghanistan, was shot dead on his way back to Kabul 29 August. Pakistan's Secretary Foreign Affairs, Shahryar Khan, said in Islamabad that the incident occurred when the vehicle entered into a village where someone fired at it in self defense. "This has been a sad point of the mission", he said. (NTN)
                                               Briefing newsmen in Islamabad 30 August the Foreign Secretary Shahryar
Khan, said that a buffer force of 1,000 personnel drawn from five provinces of Afghanistan including Kabul, Logar, Wardak, Nangarhar and Parwan is being created soon to replace militia in Kabul. He said that it had been agreed between the parties that as soon as the buffer force would take over . in a week's time, the militia in Kabul and the Hezb forces would be simultaneously withdrawn. (PT)
                          SEPTEMBER
                                      1
* Engineer Mahmood, deputy leader of a neutral peace delegation said in an interview from Kabul with the AIP 31 August the peace mission of Nangarhar has constituted eleven observation teams for monitoring the ceasefire agreement. The teams would be deployed at eleven places including TV booster area, Chehil-satoon, Darul Aman, Bala-hisar. Hood Khel and Karte Naw. Three teams had been constituted to be deployed to check the supply routes including the road to airport and the roads leading to the north and south of the Kabul city, he said. (PT)
" Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani made a brief stopover in New Delhi early 31 August to meet with senior Indian government officials before leaving for the NAM summit in Jakarta, an Indian government spokesman said. The spokesman said Rabbani and his
 25-member entourage stayed in Delhi for three hours, but declined to reveal the contents pf discussions with the Indian officials. (PT)
 ** Commenting on agreement between the Kabul government and Gulbuddin Hekmat-yar The Nation in its editorial 1 September says that the government's acceptance of the. rebels' demand for the ouster of the Uzbek militia implies not only a loss of face for the government but also serious erosion of its defense capability. Technically and legally the rebels had no right to demand the ouster of any fighting unit, whatever its background, that the government considered necessary for the defense of the city. And again, technically and legally, any armed revolt against a legitimate government is treason. And yet once the government accepted the former and found no heart to press the latter, it had already paid a very heavy price for peace. (NTN)
                                               2
 - The ceasefire was violated 1 September when Kabul government jet bombers, taking off from Mazar-e-Sharif and the stronghold of the communist Dostum militia, ‘dropped hundreds of bombs in a series of raids on Shindand Airbase in Afghanistan. "Unless total peace is established in Kabul and the people are safe from the • ruthless attacks of Hekmatyar, we should stay in Kabul", AIP quoted Dostum as saying in an interview in Mazar-e-Sharif 29 August. Meanwhile, there were no signs in the city of a militia pull-out. (PT)
                                                3
 *• A foreign office spokesman in his weekly press briefing in Islamabad 2 September said that Pakistan will, as far as possible, make §ure that the ceasefire ampngst warring factions in Kabul, brought about through its good
173
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         MfliUfHAO                 VOL-  5 NO-. 4
 offices, proves durable and stable "though it is not an easy task". One of the steps Pakistan had taken in this direction was to see that no arms and weapons reached Afghanistan from. Pakistani territory. (PT)
 •* Addressing a party gathering in Karak district in the NWFP 2 September the Chief of JUI Maulana Fazalur Rehman said that the Afghan interim government should be given an opportunity for establishing a regular army before deciding the fate of Dostum militia. (PT)
    The Afghan government 2 ' September ordered, thousands of mujaheddin fighters to vacate Kabul as from 3 September. (PT)
 * VOG quoted Indian officials as saying 1 September that the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani* during his brief stopover in New Delhi enroute to Jakarta to attend the NAM summit, said he was planning to convene a Loya Jirgah of the Afghan elders to settle the problem of the leadership in Kabul. On the other hand the Afghan Embassy in Delhi clarified that Burhanuddin Rabbani had only briefed the Indian officials about the historic background of Loya Jirgah in Afghanistan and that he did not announce to convene such a Jirgah. (MLM)
 " About 6,000 Afghans, mostly women and children, were reportedly missing following the latest infighting for control over Kabul and many of them might have been killed, Afghan sources said. (MLM)
                    5
» In his speech at the 10th NAM summit in Jakarta 4 September the interim, Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani called on Russia to pay war reparations for damage .inflicted by the former
 Soviet Union during their military intervention in Afghanistan. He said that Russia had "inherited the former Soviet Union's international commitments". (PT)
     Government forces in Kabul 3 September revived an operation to confiscate guerilla factions' weapons and a radio report in Kabul said the Defense Ministry was evicting armed groups from the capital. (PT)
 *  Despite a Ceasefire agreement the Kabul Government Air Force continued its air raids 4 September on HIA (Hekmatyar) targets at Shindand air base in Afghanistan. Operation clean-up also continued simultaneously in Kabul. (NWT)
 *  In a message to the people of Afghanistan broadcast from Radio Payam-i-Azadi the Prime Minister of Afghanistan Ustad Abdul Sabour Farid said that they would be compelled to reconsider their policy if the decisions of the Nangarhar Mediation Commission were not implemented within one week. Replying a question he said that he was still the Prime Minister of Afghanistan and Burhanuddin Rabbani was not .authorized to dismiss him. (JG)
 *  The death toll in a flash flood in river valley of Gulbahar in northern Afghanistan 4 September could reach
 3,000,   said a British humanitarian organization working. in the area. Town's people clung to the roof of a mosque as the raging waters razed the market place and swept away children on their way to school. Among those lost were a bus-load of 50 refugees who had returned from Pakistan and stopped overnight in Gulbahar. (MLM)
 *  President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in their messages 4 September sympathized with Afghan President Burhanuddin
174
 JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
 Rabbani over the tragic loss of lives in Afghanistan caused by heavy floods. They said the government and people of Pakistan received with profound sorrow and grief the news of the tragic loss of life and heavy damage to property caused by flash floods and rains in northern Afghanistan. (NTN)
                     6
 « The Afghan government has alleged that HI A (Hekmatyar) has not been sincerely implementing the terms and conditions of the ceasefire accord. BBC correspondent in Kabul said, although Kabul airport had been reopened for civilian flights, the removal of armed groups from Kabul city had not yet begun. However, action is on to recover arms and ammunition from the former mujaheddin. (MLM)
 -  In an interview with PTV corres-
 pondent in Jakarta, which was telecast 5 September, -the Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani said, "it is our eager desire that■there is durable peace in Afghanistan so that an era of development     could     start in that
 country". He also asked the Afghan leadership to move with a greater vision to have peace in their country. (MLM)
 - In an interview to BBC the Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani has said " that he has agreed on ceasefire under the pressure of a team of mujaheddin commanders which played a mediatory role between the two sides. He said the commanders have agreed that Hekmatyar should hand over heavy weapons of its party to the government. Hekmatyar should also expel those people from his party who have been members of former Afghan government and he should be put on trial on the charge of recent attacks on the capital, Kabul. President Rabbani said if Hekmatyar again resorts to aggression, the government will once again use force against him. (MLM)
VOL. 5 no. 4
                   7
    In a message issued by AIP 6 September the Chief of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that Kabul administration was violating the ceasefire accord by stationing the communist generals around Kabul. The Defense Minister had concealed the hideouts of militia and only pointed out places under the control of mujaheddin. He said the Kabul government wanted to remove the mujaheddin from the city in the name of clean-up operation. Mujaheddin of Shura-e-Etelaf were also exempted from the operation. Hekmatyar said that operation clean-up was a well-planned conspiracy to remove HIA mujaheddin from Kabul. (NTN)
     A 300-men     peace-keeping force
 assembled by Afghan mediators arrived in Kabul 6 September, the AIP reported in Peshawar. It is part of the 1,000 mujaheddin buffer force proposed in the ceasefire set up on 29 August by mediators between Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani's government and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. (NTN)
                   9
 -   Najibullah Lafrai, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, is reported to have expressed the view in Australia that Afghanistan was in desperate need of medical and food supplies. He said, medicine was in such a short supply that hospital operations were carried out without anesthesia. (VOGDS)
 —   The commission, delegated to broker a ceasefire between the two rival groups of HWIA and IIA, has expressed the hope that agreement to this effect will be signed today, 8 September. According to the BBC, Nasrullah Mansoor, leader of the commission, has said that a buffer force, comprising mujaheddin of various
175
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfllllMJ[HAO              VOL.  5 NO. 4
 groups will be established in. the west of the city where the fighting was the heaviest. (BBCFS)
 * Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Chief of HIA, told the peace mission and guarantor of the 12-point accord of Nangarhar province 8 September in Char Asyab that the clean-up operation in Kabul was the responsibility of the Interior Ministry and not the duty of the forces of General Momin and General Majid under the name of' Defense Ministry. He said that Prof. Rabbani and his government had not only violated the ceasefire but also had ignored the Peshawar agreement. Despite Rabbani1s impolite statements and violations of the ceasefire in so many places the HIA had honored the agreement# he said. Hekmatyar assured his full support for implementation of the accord but expressed the hope that the agreement would be implemented point by point.
 (NTN)
 " ' According to reliable reports reaching through diplomats the first batch of the buffer force, which had recently taken its positions in Kabul, has established its observation posts, in the suburbs of the city to determine the points from where the rockets are fired. (PT)
'* Addressing a press conference at the State Guest House in Lahore 8 September the visiting Iranian President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani denied that Iran was providing weapons to. any faction in Afghanistan. In fact, he said, the problem of Afghanistan was that there were too many weapons in that country which some factions were using against each other. He said if ever Afghanistan was to be divided within, then peace would never come to that country. The Iranian President also categorically denied that either his country or Pakistan were intervening in Afghanistan's internal affairs. Both Pakistan and Iran were
only providing much needed humanitarian relief and medicines, he said. (PT)
                  10
- Three persons were hanged at the Zarnegar Park in the center of Kabul 8 September without any one knowing about their offences. According to the Associated Press, another four persons had committed suicide only hours prior to hanging. (BBCPS)
     Eng. Ahmad Shah, the Minister for Home Affairs, expressing optimism over the ceasefire agreement between the government and forces loyal to Eng. Hekmatyar, said in his opinion the ceasefire was going to last. Explaining government plans for the normalization of the situation in Kabul he said that efforts for procuring food supplies and fuel for the city will be initiated well in advance of the winter months. "Work on the establishment of a regular police force is also in progress, " he said. Regarding the execution of the three persons the previous day, he said there will be more of these in the future. (BBCFS)
• The HIA (Hekmatyar) in a strongly worded communique issued to ANA 10 September has warned that if the communist generals do not stop the bombardment of HIA positions all over the country, they will be forced to resort to hitting Kabul and Bagram airports so that no flight, civilian or military, is allowed to take off from these airports. The communique says since the signing of the accord on 28 August until today the communist generals and the uncivilized militia forces have violated the ceasefire accord by regularly-- bombarding the Shindand military airport and the positions of HIA mujaheddin in Farah and Baghlan provinces. (PT)
                  11
— Commander Shamali, Chairman of the 17*>
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGllflNJ[HAO             VOL.  5 NO. 4
 Ceasefire    Council     between the
 government and the HI A (Hekmatyar) said, talks were in progress for a permanent ceasefire, the withdrawal of the militia forces and. the sacking of the communists from civil and military establishments.      He     added,     a
 representative each from the Provincial Councils should be summoned to Kabul to assist in the formation of an Islamic army in. the country. After the militias have left Kabul, forces loyal to the HIA should be disloged from their positions around Kabul. (BBCPS)
 y  Ha ji  Deen Mohammad, the Education
 Minister of the Islamic government, is hopeful that more and more schools and madrasas in Kabul will be opened within the next fortnight. He said the former curricula based on communist ideology, will be replaced by Islamic ones. (BBCFS)
 y Provincial forces have been deployed in a buffer-belt around Kabul. A source from the mediation commission said that a force of 5,000 men has been deployed for this purpose. The measure has been taken on acount of the cease-fire agreement reached between the government forces and those of the HIA (Hekmatyar) by the end of August.
 y Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, has said if his conditions regarding the ousting of the militia from Kabul, the dismissal of communists from key posts (particularly in the ministries of Defence and National Security), and the holding of general elections were acceptable to the interim government of Afghanistan, he would be ready to dispense with his share in the government. Regarding Ustad Abdus Saboor Fareed he said ie would not reoccupy his government post of Premiership unless and until the communists were sacked from the
 government and the militia had vacated Kabul. In that case, he said, he would also take up his position in the Leadership Council. (BBCPS)
 y The leader of the Iranian medical team in Kabul said, it was already a fortnight since they have been in Afghanistan and that some 500 persons had, so far, sought medical assistance from them.(BBCFS).
 - A mujaheddin commander from Rishkhor, Mawlawi Agha Jan of HIA, said 12 September that ^ Gulbuddin Hekmatyar was willing to join the government of the interim President Burhanuddih Rabbani on the conditions that fighting was stopped, militia units left Kabul and former communist officials were ousted from the government. (PT)
                  15
    xn an interview with the ANA the leader of the HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said the real cause of fighting in Kabul was the presence of militia forces in the city and peace and security could not be restored unless these forces were removed from there. (PT)
 y Representatives from 16 provinces have gathered together in Ghazni to discuss the ceasefire between the government and the HIA as well as the forthcoming elections for the new government in Afghanistan. (BBCFS)
 y In a gathering at the Afghan Embassy in London Ayatullah Asef Mohseni, leader of the HIA and Speaker of the Leadership Council in Afghanistan, said that within two months and prior to the end of Prof. Rabbani' s term of office, a council under the name of "Shoora-e-Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd" will be formed to decide upon the future government in the country. The council will elect, on majority vote, a head of the government to take over
*77
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     AfGIIAN iffll)                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
 from Rabbani for another 18 months. (BBCFS)
                  16
 y Forces loyal to Gulbuddin HekmSt-yar retreated from the hill-tops around Kabul to make room for military units composed of all mujaheddin organizations. The Uzbek militia had vacated their positions in Kabul a day earlier, and by this means the major part of the conditions laid down in the ceasefire agreement has been fulfilled. (VOGDS)
                  17
 y Tom Gottierre, leader of the Afghanistan research center of Nebraska University of the US, regarding the continuation of the US assistance for the Afghan reconstruction said, that priority would be given to health . and education at the primary level. It would later be extended to cover vocational training in various fields. He added that rural development and agricultural sectors will also be assisted, particularly the production of grains and pulses which will reduce popy cultivation. Gottierre hoped, with the return of real peace in the country, the situation will be normal which will, naturally, affect the form of assistance and its delivery to the population. (VOADS)
                 18
 y Fighting broke out between the 11A and the HWIA in the west of Kabul 17 September which resulted in injuries to be sustained by both sides. Reports say that scattered gunfire was heard throughout the 24 hours and the residents are afraid fighting might escalate to other parts despite government efforts to stop it. (RTFS)
                   I
 y Addressing a press conference in Peshawar 17 September Qutbuddin Hilal, Chief of the Political Affairs Committee of HIA (Hekmatyar) said that
 serious violations of ceasefire were being made by militia forces. He said that . Shindand military airbase was being "severely bombed". Five hundred Napalm bombs and 100 cluster bombs were dropped on the runway. Hilal warned that the HIA would retaliate and would not hesitate to use its air force if these serious violations were not stopped. "We cannot wait for a long time. Our patience has run over. We have not so far used our air force. If they do' not stop bombirtg our positions we wil have the right to retaliate", he said. He said that neither militiamen were being expelled from Kabul nor the Communist Generals being purged. Militia was being treated as the force of Islamic Government. Forty-four thousand families have been forced by the militia to move from Faryab province to other area. He said that Burhanuddin Rabbani was not in a position to expel militiamen but at least he should not1 side with them. (PT)
 y The new Afghan leadership will be elected by a special Council of Public Representatives after the term of the acting President Burhanuddin Rabbani expires. This was announced in Kabul by Deputy President Mawlawi Hamza. (MLM)
 y Heavy fighting again broke out in Kabul 17 September between the mujaheddin of Shia HWIA and Ittehad-e -1slami, reported BBC. (MLM)
                 19
 y Burhanuddin Rabbani, President of the interim government and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, leader of the HIA, have reached an agreement on a permanent ceasefire in Kabul. An HIA spokesman said the agreement was made after long discussions conducted at Paghman 17 September. Reports say, that Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf were also present in this meeting.
178
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992
     ANA says, it was also decided during the talks that air raids on Shindand airbase, Pul-e-Khumri and Shairkhan Port be stopped and HIA fighters arrested in Kabul be released. The meeting also agreed* that the decisions of the Leadership Council at Peshawar and those of the Kunar and Laghman provinces' commanders be respected and that the army and government, be freed from the militia and communist elements. The report adds that the reponsibility of implementing these dicisions was placed upon Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammadi. (VOADS)
 y The four leading mujaheddin leaders and members of Afghanistan's Leadership Council, President Burhanuddin. Rabbani, the HIA Chief Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, IIA Chief and Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and HIA Chief Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi in their meeting in Paghman 17 September took several decisions. According to ANA the meeting lasting for more than three hours took the following decisions:  1) Aerial bombing
 on Shindand, Sher Khan Bandar and Pule Khumri should be stopped immediately; 2) the arrested members of HIA (Hekmatyar) should be released; 3) Militia and communists should be withdrawn from Kabul; 4) Communists should be removed from official posts;
 5)  The previous decisions of Leadership Council, Peshawar Accord and Peace Commission should be implemented in letter and spirit; 6) The security of Kabul should be handed over to the Interior Ministry; 7) A commission comprising two members from all mujaheddin forces should be formed for establishment of a broad-based Shura. The commission would retain its independent position and its members would not form part of the proposed Shura and 8) throughout the country from each district two members would be nominated to the proposed Shura by the people of each district. (NTN)
VOL. 5 NO. 4
                  20
 y Five members of the peace mission from the Nangarhar Commanders' Shoora were martyred while two of them sustained serious injuries when their jeep was suddenly attacked by Gelam Jam militia near Balahisar 17 September. They were on duty to hold the ceasefire between HIA (Hekmatyar) and Gelam Jam militia. (PT)
 y Fighting between the mujaheddin of IIA and HWIA continued in Kabul for the second consecutive day 19 September, reports ANA. Independent sources said that Gelam Jam militiamen were also fighting from the HWIA side. Ittehad sources claimed that they ran over four military bases of HWIA in the Qala-e-Wahid area. The fighting was continuing in. Mirwais Maidan intersection, Speen Kellay, Khushhal Maina, Rahman Baba School and Dashte Barchai. Efforts to mediate between IIA and HWIA did not bear fruit. (MLM)
 y Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi in an interview with the BBC regarding the outcome of the Paghman meeting said, it was a followrup of other sessions and in which the two sides agreed on a truce provided the Gelam Jam militia be expelled from Kabul and the surrounding areas and the true mujaheddin be made responsible for the security in the city. It was also decided that the "Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd"      council     be
 estalished to elect the head of the future government for another 18 months or two years. (BBCPS)
                                                21
 y Despite allegations of repeated violations of the ceasefire agreement by both the government troops and the mujaheddin loyal to HIA (Hekmatyar), the     ceasefire; still       remains
 enforced. But during the last three days clashes have occurred between the
 179
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992          AH!J[HAU                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
 IIA and the HWIA forces in the western sector of Kabul which has resulted in a heavy toll on both sides. None of the parties concerned       have taken  the
 responsibility of      initiating  the
 fighting. (VOADS)
 y Regarding the ceasefire between the IIA and the HWIA Qanooni, the speaker of the Defence Ministry, said that the ministry was very mugh' concerned for, the outbreak of fighting between the two factions. f*BBCFS)
 ty In the continued violations of “the ceasefire agreement for the past  three
 weeks four Kabul government        jet
 aircraft once again bombed the HIA (Hekmatyar) controlled Shindand Air Base in the western Farah province 20 September reports ANA. (PT)
' m Minor points of agreement have been reached in fresh talks between Afghan opponents, a government spokesman said in Kabul 20 September. During discussions Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani and , opposition mujaheddin leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar reiterated their commitment to remove ex-communist elements from both sides including militia forces, Defense Ministry spokesman Yunus Qanuni said. Included in the talks were the leaders of two other mujaheddin parties Rasool Sayyaf and Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and a four-man delegation of Pakistani religious scholars. (PT)
                                               22
    According to Abdul Ali Mazari, leader of the HWIA, regarding the renewal of clashes between his own party and that of the IIA (Sayyaf) said, in his opinion there were two main factors behind this action:
 (1)  The first two battles were not followed by strong condemnations.
 (2) We have now been convinced from*
 our experience with the past that there are foreign hands at work. (BBCFS) y A new ceasefire has been declared in Kabul between Shia HWIA and the Sunni IIA factions, reports BBC. According to the BBC Kabul correspondent, Suzy Price the ceasefire was supposed to come into effect 21 September in the morning but the shelling continued until the early afternoon. (NTN)
 y Three Iranians, including a diplomat* were shot and injured by government forces when their car failed to stop at a road check-point in Kabul, a Defense Ministry official said 21 September. The diplomat, Agha Bahrami suffered serious head injuries! (NTN)
 y Frantic negotiations by Afghan government mediators failed to halt three days of fierce exchange of rocket fire between Sunnis and a rival Shia, faction in Kabul's western suburbs 20 September. As many as eight people have been killed and 200 injured, most of them combatants, in battles that erupted 18 September in a residential suburbs. Fighters of the Iran-backed^ Shia HWIA were firing multi-barrelled rocket launchers, with as many as 10 rockets a minute. (PT)
 y A spokesman of the. Iranian Foreign Ministry has expressed deep concern over the announcement of Sayyaf's forces of attacking residential areas of Kabul. The spokesman expressed the hope that ceasefire which has been strengthened after a fierce fighting would remain intact as before and all the groups would sort out their differences through mutual talks. (MLM)
 y The Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani has confirmed a report saying that he has arrived at a peace agreement with leader oT the HIA Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. According to a statement issued by the Afghan Vice President Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, Prof.
180
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992         AfGliAN|1[HA0             VOL.  5 NO. 4
 Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar shook, • hands and kissed each other during the talks. Prof. Rabbani agreed to accept a demand of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar calling for the withdrawal of Uzbek militia from. Kabul. On the other hand HIA would disarm those troops of the former Afghan regime which are fighting on its side,. (MLM)
                                             23
   Two members of the Peace Commission of Afghanistan belonging to HIA (Hekmatyar), Akhtar Mohammad Sharafat and Mawlawi Attaullah, have levelled serious charges of violations of ceasefire agreement by militia in Kabul paying that formal protest has been lodged by the HIA with the agreementsponsoring Nangarhar Shoora whose verdict was still awaited in this connection. They told a joint press conference in Peshawar 21 September, that under the ceasefire agreement the positions of HIA were; vacated whereas those of the militia were not. They said that two strategic posts behind the military academy and the road upto Makrorian were to be vacated under the ceasefire agreement, but the two mountain-posts were still occupied by the militiamen while HIA had vacated the road to honor the ceasefire. They said the HIA had protested with the Peace Mission and asked for removing the militia from the mountains behind the military academy. (PT)
   Six MI-17 Soviet-made Afghan helicopters landed at Peshawar airport at 5.30 . pm 22 September with 31 crew members and two passengers. The Nation learnt from its sources. Military officials     arranged    immigration
 facilities for them at the air base and the unidentified crew and the passangers were transported to some unknown place in the provincial capital. The purpose of the landing of Afghan helicopters could not be
 ascertained. (NTN)
    The daily Jang in its editorial 23 September says the basic cause of the present bloodshed in Afghanistan is the conspiracy of US; Russia, India and certain othet powers to keep the powerful Afghan groups out Of power for paving way for a civil . war in Afghanistan so as to divide the country on ethnic and linguistic basis and also prevent Pakistan's access to Central Asian States. To achieve this objective these powers are extending their full support to communist militia and; that is why the militia has refused\ to withdraw from Kabul. Furthermore, the new identity cards for army have also been -issued to communist militia by the Afghan Defense Ministry thus making the militia a part of regular army. After Sebghatullah Mujaddedi, Burtianuddin Rabbani has also been made hostage by militia forces. And according to reliable circles US, Russia and India are supplying huge amounts of weapons to Mazar-e-Sharif for waging full-scale war against the supporters of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The editorial says that "the Afghan groups, who resisted the Russian aggression for twelve years should now unite against the remnants of the communists. (JG)
 y Prof. Zayeem Ahmed, Head of the Peshawar branch of ths Association for Regional Development and Security, convened a one-day conference in which a number of Afghan leaders, commanders, ulama, intellectuals, tribal elders and some Pakistani nationals participated. .Leader of Da'eya Ittehad-e-Islami, Qazi Mohammad Amin Waqad, one of the participants in the coference later saiid, the participants were unanimous in their views that the present ■fighting should come to an end and security should return to Afghanistan. He added that it was necessary to form a council to take action in connection with the future government in the
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992     Affili/IN JtHAfl              VOL- 5 NO-  4
 country, but stressed that the future government must include, the entire mujaheddin organizations and be acceptable to the afghan nation. (VOA)
                                              24
 y Addressing a press conference on his return from Kabul the Chief of his faction of JUI Maulana Fazalur Rehman said in Peshawar 23 September that stalwarts of Najibullah after collapse of their government have taken shelter with various mujaheddin groups are| provoking them against each other. They were not only creating differences •among the mujaheddin forces but were also creating obstacles in peace efforts. He said that after detailed discussion of his delegation with Afghan leadership they had succeeded in framing a formula for resolving internal differences among the mujaheddin leaders. Signed by Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar' the formula was also endorsed by Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi mohammadi and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood. All of the Afghan leadership . have authorized Abd Rab Rasool Sayyaf and Mawlawi     Mohammadi     for    early
 implementation of the JUI framed formulaj (NTN)
 y The former deputy of the ex-Afghan President, General Mohammad Rafi, alongwith his two associates was arrested 22 September by forces loyal to Defense Minister Ahpiad Shah Masood while he was allegedly trying to leave Kabul for New Delhi with five passports. (NTN)
 y The leader of the JUI in Pakistan, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, who had gone to Afghanistan last week to broker a truce between rival mujaheddin groups has returned to Peshawar. In a press conference 24 September, while considering his trip to Afghanistan as useful, he said during his stay in
 Kabul he came to the conclusion that internal and external forces have had a hand in the present clashes between the various mujaheddin groups. Without naming any particular foreign power he. said, "some menbers of the former Kabul regime have joined some of the mujaheddin organizations and have created discord among them. The mujaheddin have agreed to settle their differences through peaceful means." (VOA)
 y Afghanistan's former King, Mohammad Zaher, says the only way to settle the Afghan prolem is through a traditional Afghan forum uhder the auspices of the UN. In a statement he said, ignoring the national realities in Afghanistan, taking speedy decisions without referring to public opinion and intervention on the part of some foreign elements are jointly responsible for the present unfortunate situation in the country. He concluded, "the liberal people of Afghanistan have been recognized as a single and undividable nation throughout the centuries despite their multi-national identity." The former king expressed the hope, that the people of the country will again emerge; successful out, of the present tumult.
 (VOA)
                   25
 y The former Afghan King Mohammad Zahir Shah in a brief statement has said the events of the last four months not only overshadowed the joy of the victory of jehad but also added to the difficulties and miseries of the oppressed Afghan nation. National realities of the country were ignored and the power mongers made decisions in haste. Some of the foreign forces intervened which consequently put at stake the national unity of the country. The King said Afghanistan is •now passing through a test. Selfish hands are fanning ethnic, linguistic
182
july-September, 1992         AWNJfHAD                  vql.  5 no. 4
and religious feelings in the country. He said that the Aifghan nation femained indivisible and united for centuries and will remain, so in future too. (MLM) ty Pakistani authorities have welcomed the arrival of six Afghan military helicopters to help relief operations in flood-stricken areas in Pakistan. A Pakistani press statement, quoting Gen. Abdul Jameel, the second in command of the AAF, says Afghanistan will do its best to assist the flood affectees. (BBC)
                 26
» Some reliable sources. informed The Nation that after ceasefire in Kabul 29 August the Saudi authorities speeded up their efforts to minimise the Iranian influence in Afghanistan as well as its increasing understanding with maximum Afghan groups. The sources while quoting some Afghan officials said that Saudi planes also supplied weapons to Kabul. These weapons were handed over by the American-led allied forces to Saudi Arabia after, capturing it from Iraq in the Gulf War. (NTN)
Vj* Attention in various circles in Afghanistan has turned to the formation of the Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd council. Rival groups, such as the HIA (Hekmatyar), which had previously insisted upon holding elections, are of the opinion that the first step towards general elections is the establishment of the said council. (BBC)
                27
** Speaking at a lunch hosted in honor of the visiting Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani in Islamabad 26 September the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, assured the visiting President that Pakistan was firmly behind the Government of Afghanistan and would make sure that its territory was not used to undermine
 the legitimacy and sovereignty of the Afghan government. Pakistan firmly supported      Afghanistan's     unity,
 sovereignty and territorial integrity and would like to see permanent peace and stability return to Afghanistan. The Prime Minister said that the Afghan mujaheddin had awakened the world conscience through their unprecedented jehad in the human history. (PT)
 *  In his formal talks with Prime Minister Mohammad Nawaz Sharif in Islamabad 26 September the visiting Afghan President Burhanuddin Rabbani told the Prime Minister that work was in progress for convening of a shoora (council) under the Peshawar Accord for electing an interim government in Kabul. Latest situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in their talks. (PT)
     The Afghan Defense Ministry spokesman,Younus Qanuni, confirmed 26 September that a mass grave, dating from the previous communist regime containing more than a thousand bodies, had been found in Herat. A mujaheddin source stated that the grave dated from the regime of Noor Mohammad Taraki who took power in the communist coup of 1978. The grave site, which has been visited by the UN officials, was found by the mujaheddin of Ismail Khan. (PT)
 *  Speaking at a banquet in honor of the visiting Afghan President in Islamabad 26 September the President of Pakistan Ghulam Ishaq Khan said, "you can count on the resolute support of the government and the people of Pakistan. There is an imperative need to convert the present ceasefire into permanent peace by taking measures to deail with factors responsible for the periodic recurrence of factional fighting in a country already ravaged by war". He said, the valiant Afghan people have now to wage another jehad to bring peace and stability to their
 183
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992       flfGHANJIHAD                   VOL. 5 NO. 4
 country. (PT)
                  I
 " UN officials in Islamabad told PPA that a plan to settle the former Afghan President NajibullAh in New Delhi has been finalized and UN will look after the arrangements of Najib's shifting to New Delhi. (PT)
 " Inducting five new members into his cabinet the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani said that three of them will be nominees of Iran-backed Shia g^oup HWIA. One of the nominees is Dr. Abdut Wahed Sarabi, former deputy president in the government of deposed President Najibullah. The HWIA's two other nominees included Mohammad Yaqoob Lali and Mawlawi Ahmad Nazar. The fourth minister is Dr. Yaqoob Barakzai (Khales). The name of the fifth minister could not be ascertained.
 (NTN)
      Burhanuddin Rabbani, President of the interim government, stated in Pakistan 2o September that a council composed of representatives from all the mujaheddin organizations shall soon be formed in Afghanistan to work out a comprehensive peace plan for the country. He also expressed hope that Hekmatyar, - the HI A leader, woulpl abide by the ceasefire agreement and avoid fresh clashes in the capital. (RT)
 y # The UN ' Representative in Afghanistan in an interview regarding human rights and basic < freedoms in Afghanistan said, "I cannot say for sure that these freedoms have been banned . through .legal means but I can say that under the present conditions this haS become a common practice. When a person is being searched/ on every road side, then there is\ix6 freedom in practical terms. Freedom of the press has not been guaranteed because newspapers are non-existing, radio/TV are not functioning and if there be any demonstrations against the government at all, these would
 certainly be not tolerated." (VOA)
 y A mammoth gathering of outstanding commanders,    elders,     ulama and
 intellectuals      from the South-west
 region was held the Kherqa Mubaraka grand mosque in Kandahar 25 September. The meeting, which was sponsored by the Kandahar Provincial Council, was attended by      dignitaries   from the
 provinces of Badghis, Herat,. Farah, Nimroz, Ghor, Helmand, Urozgan and Kandahar. The meeting, held under the chairmanship of Abdul Ahad Karzai-, issued a declaration at the end which stresses upon the entire nation their obligation        in respect     to the
 independence and territorial integrity of the country and the convening of the Loya Jirgah. (VOA)
                   28
 A Addressing a press conference in Islamabad 27    September on the eve of
 his departure for Tehran at the conclusion of ^ two-day state visit to Pakistan the Afghan Interim President
                    l                 i
 Burhanuddin Rabbani, accused the Chief
 of JI Pakistan, Qazi Hussain Ahmed, of abetting the HIA (Hekmatyar) to an armed fight with the legitimate authority headed by him (Rabbani). He said it was not the Pakistan Government but some private individuals in Pakistan, especially Qazi Hussain Ahmed, who had sent weapons to Hekmatyar group to grab power from him (Rabbani) by force. Regarding his government's efforts to rai,se a new regular army Burhanuddin Rabbani said these included the integration of the militias into it. Howpver, those elements of the militia who had collaborated with communist regimes in Kabul in the last 14 years would not be inducted into the new army. A correspondent painting to the induction of five new ministers in the interim government askdd how come Abdul 'Wahed Sarabi had been included in the
184
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGliiUiJ[HAO             VOL. 5 NO.  4
 cabinet aithrough he was a supporter of former President Najibullah. In reply Rabbani said there were good Muslims also in Najibullah*s party and Sarabi was one of them. President Rabbani also described as "mere 'propaganda** by foreign press including the Pakistani press that Gelam Jam militia was out of the control of his interim government. A^>out Hekmatyar, Rabbani said the HIA Leader was now cooperating with his government in keeping the ceasefire intact. The only Shia HWIA group which had lately defied the ceasefire was now respecting the ceasefire accord, he said. It could be safely said that there existed no opposition to the ceasefire now, Rabbani said. (PT)
 *• Nine provinces of Afghanistan, in a resolution adopted unanimously in a jirgah held at Kandahar 25 - September, have opposed Rabbani government’s intention to hold a meeting of mujaheddin-installed      Shoora      and
 demanded early convening of Lpya Jirgah meeting. Through another.resolution the Jirgah demanded of the . UN and other peace-loving world organizations to step up their efforts for pulling Afghanistan and its people out of the present crisis. The provinces are: Kandahar, Nemroz, Farah, Zabul, Herat, Ghor, Urozgan, Helmand and Paktia.
 (NTN)
    In a statement issued 27 September' from his party headquarters in Char Asyab the leader of the HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar said, some Pakistani circles having US thinking were conspiring to harass him and trying to establish a government in Afghanistan in coalition with the communists. That is why these circles are defending the remnants of communism and are having friendly, relations with Rashid Dostum, he said. (JG)
 y Kabul radio/TV has resumed transmission recently. It is also saifi the Afghan Minister of Information and
 Culture has signed an agreement with Iran on . the importation of Iranian films and programs for use by the Afghan radio/TV department. This has caused widespread speculation among the literary circles that this may adversely affect our culture and bring it under the influence of others. HabibUllah Rafi, an Afghan research
 writer and prominent poet who has returned to Peshawar from a recent trip to Kabul said, "I watched the TV program for only one day. It began transmission at b p.m. and signed off at 9:15...I noticed that the contents of the transmission were invariably in favor of the ruling JIA faction whose members were actively busy in publicity
 for their own party. Still worse was[
                    I                  i
 the 'fact that the transmission,
 instead of creating a spirit of
 national unity and friendship, was all
 geared at sowing the seeds of discord
 and consternation among its audience."1
 (BBC)
                    29
      Commanders, ulama and tribal chieftains of Kandahar in a big public meeting near the Kandahar airport 28 September demanded the immediate removal of the present coalition set-up in Afghanistan and imposition of a true Islamic order in the country through general elections or the formation of shoora qf Ahl-e- Hal-wa-Aqd. (PT)
 * Afghan Defense Ministry has decided to strengthen its armed forces, reported AIP 28 September. The Ministry through a communique broadcast by Radio Kabul asked the interested people to contact the Ministry for induction into armed forces. Each armyman would be paid 15,000 afghanees per month along with 56 kilograms of wheat, it added. (NTN)
      The visiting Afghan Interim President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, presented
185
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992         AfGUANJIHAfl              VOL. 5 NO.  4
a report on the latest developments in Afghanistan to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran in Tehran 28 September, reports Iranian official news agency IRNA. He also called for sharing Iran's experience in education, economic construction, news. media, management, agriculture, road building and communications. (PT)
y Prince Turkey Al-Faisal/ the Chief of Saudi Arabian Intelligence, arrived on board a special aeroplane, in Jalalabad 28 September. The office of HIA (Hekmatyar) while confirming the report said. Prince Al-Faisal held a lengthy meeting with Hekmatyar in Jalalabad the same day. Reports say that the trip has been undertaken after HIA criticism of Saudi Arabia earlier. Relations between the HIA and Saudi Arabia were strained lately. (VOA)
                                              30
" In an address to a gathering of foreign ambassadors in; Tehran 28 September the Afghan Interim President Burhanuddin Rabbani told them that there is no war in Afghan capital now as those who fought against the government are under control and differences between rival factions of the mujaheddin of HWIA and IIA have been removed. He asked the ambassadors from nearly 50 countries to deliver the message to their respective governments that Kabul is now safe and foreign embassies can be reopened any time. He said that full security has been provided in the city of Kabul where no people are allowed to carry arms without the permission of the Defense Ministry.- He said that after 14 years of war about 75 percent of the infrastructre in Afghanistan was destroyed and some 1.5 million people were killed. Dozens of people are being killed every day as a result of the explosions of mines. (PT)
  ~ Addressing a reception at Dara Adamkhel 28 September the Chief of JT Qazi Hussain Ahmed said that Peshawar Accord was signed at the behest of the American interests in order to give the throne to those who had no contribution in jehad. He said that in fact Kabul is being ruled by the Generals like Rashid Dostum, Momin and Baba Jan of the communist militia and President Rabbani is a powerless President and he has become abductive in the hands of the previous communist militia. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, he said, is the lone leader who is resisting American plots in Afghanistan. Regarding     accusations     of    his
  interference Qazi Hussain Ahmed said, when the JI . was fighting shoulder to shoulder with Rabbani, the latter had never considered it interference in Afghanistan's ^ffairs. Rabbani was now forgetting JI hospitality as well as his partnership in the Afghan jehad, he said. (NTN).
  r Addressing a press conference in Jalalabad 29 September the leader of HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, said that he was invited by Pakistani authorities to visit Islamabad to hold joint meeting with Burhanuddin Rabbani and General Rashid Dostum but he said he was unable to do so. "I am willing to meet Rabbani but it is impossible for me to sit on one table with criminals like Rashid Dostum". Hekmatyar said, he will not allow any sort of conspiracy against Afghanistan and its people. He suggested for formation of an election commission with immediate effect to adopt measures for general elections. About the fate of former Afghan President Najibullah, Hekmatyar said the deposed President is still in Kabul. "Babrak Karmal is also in Kabul while his younger brother Mahmood Baryalai is a special guest in Islamabad." About ceasefire in Kabul he said that since the signing of the I ceasefire agreement the opponents have
18fc
JULY-SEPTEMBER. 1992         AffillANJOMO              VOL. 5 NO. 4
 bombed the Shindand Airport for several times. Hekmatyar denied the impression that his party was being provided arms and other assistance from Pakistan. He said that he can help Pakistan by supplying arms and ammunition during crucial stages as its people and government had 'done a lot for the Afghan mujaheddin during their 14-year long jehad against the Soviet invaders and; government in Kabul. About Pakistani officials' reported decision that they would punish Hekmatyar if he did not accept the Peshawar Accord, he said that. Pakistani officials should punish those who are committing brutalities against innocent Kashmiris.
 (NTN)
 * in a press release in Peshawar 27 September the ex-Afghan Parliamentarian, Fatehul Mulk Nang Yousufzai said that according to Peshawar Accord the Afghan Government of President Rabbani is neither legal nor an Islamic one. He said that anti-Islamic forces have decided not to allow an Islamic government in Kabul. He said that long awaiting Afghan conflict could be resolved through holding of general elections. (NTN)
 " Prince Turki al-Faisal, the special envoy of King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, held a series of meetings with Afghan leaders during the last- three days conveying to them the message from the ,Saudi Monarch calling for strengthening the cause, of peace and harmony in war-torn Afghanistan, says a Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabian press release issued in Islamabad 29 September. (NTN)
 " Addressing a press conference in Jalalabad 29 September the leader of
 HIA, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, demanded that a grand shoora be formed within two weeks to take over power from the government of Burhanuddin Rabbani and conduct elections within four months and transfer power to the elected Islamic
 government in Afghanistan* Hekmatyar said that according to the Peshawar Accord Rabbani would quit power on October 28 and in case the proposed Shoora was not formed they will appoint a caretaker president to conduct elections. He strongly denied and condemned the BBC Claim that HI A had given up its demand foir general elections and had agreed on the formation of a council of Ahl-e-Hal-wa-Aqd and clarified that as part of the Peshawar Agreement he proposed the formation of the said Shoora to fill the vacuum on the expiry of Rabbani's tenure. He said his party will not accept an unelected government on a single inch of the country whether such regime comes through the international conspiracy, coup det'at
                    .                    i
 or the use of force. (PT)
 " The Afghan COAS, General Dilawar, was seriously injured when a remotely detonated bomb blew up under his car in Kabul 29 September, army sources in Kabul said. Three other passengers were also wounded in the attack which killed Dilawar's chauffeur and a passer-by on the street, the sources said. (MLM)
 ~ The Speaker of the Iranian Parliament, Ali Akbar Noori, asked the visiting Afghan President, Burhanuddin Rabbani, in Tehran to ensure participation in general elections of all those mujaheddin groups who waged jehad against the former communist regime in Afghanistan. (NWT)
 " Over one million Afghan refugees have repatriated from Iran and Pakistan since April 1992, says a UNHCR report. (NTN)
                    i
 ty The daily Tehran Times in its editorial says, President Rabbani is expecting Iran to extend humanitarian assistance towards the settlement of "101 problems" in Afghanistan. The paper ...says that for any country, ready to assist Afghanistan in its re-
187
JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1992       AfGlIAN JIHI1I1             VOL. 5 NO. 4
 construction efforts, at least a guarantee should be there .that whatever is accoplished. in this regard should not be destroyed again through armed conflicts between the rival groups contesting each other for the sake of power. The editorial concludes, "as long as the Afghans prefer to plant mines in their land in place of wheat, they should not expect their wheat to be supplied from elsewhere. (RTFS)
      A new organization under the name of "The Islamic National Movement" is in charge of administration in the
                        north of Afghanistan. The BBC correspondent in an interview with Seerat Taloqani asked how the movement came into being. Taloqani said, the aim of the movement was the independence and territorial integrity as well as the maintenance of justice and equality in the country • and is indifferent to sectarian considerations. When aisked whether the formation of similar movements in other parts of the country would not end 'in the division, of Afghanistan, Taloqani said, the movement had no such designs. "It is only enemy propaganda and ■.sabotage.,'" he said. (BBC)
 \

 188