   27
JEHAD TO CONTINUE
ABDULLAH AZZAM
                             MARTYRED
                        Our Stand
                   •  We want to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan that is independent, non-aligned and Islamically elected. Our Jihad will continue until this goal is a reality.
                      We insist on election as the only practical way for solving the current Afghan crisis. No other then an elected Islamic government will be able to put an end to war and establish durable peace and security in Afghanistan.
                   •  The internal and external policy of our government will be based on Qura’an and Sunnah. We will make independent judgement on all international issues and maintain friendly relations with all states except those that are engaging against our faith, independence and territorial intigrity.
                   •  The Islamic state of Afghanistan will take all possible measures to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals and will promote science and technology for the reconstruction, development, self-reliance and self-sufficiency of our state.
                                                           Hezb-i-lslami
                                                            Afghanistan
MUJAHIDEEN
                       MONTHLY
         Contents                                                                 page
      1. Editorial ................................................................  3
      2. Hekmatyar Links Changes in E.Europe to Afghan Jihad ....................... 5
      3. Sheikh Abdullah Azam is Martyred ......................................... 10
      4. Hezb-i-Island And Jamiat-i-Islami Sign An Agreement .....................  12
      5. Why Elections ............................................................ 13
      6. Sheikh Tamim Adnani’s Brief Back Ground .................................. 14
      7. Historical Review of Moscow’s System of Reserve puppets in Afghanistan ... 15
      8. Huge crowds Respond to Hekmatyar on December 27th, 1989                ... 16
      9. 10th Aniversary of Soviet Invasion (Resolution of the Hezbi-i-Islami) .... 17
      10. News Revies of 1989                                                       18
      11. Refugee Rations Dwindling ............................................... 20
      12. The Situation in Kabul Today ..........................................   21
      13. Social Services of the Hezb-i-Islami .................................... 23
      14. The opening of Jihad University .......................................   24
 Foreign Minister of Bangladesh, Anisul Islam Mahmud greeting Eng. G.Hekmatyar.
—
 Br. I)ilju Husaini reading the HIA resolution on Dec. 27, 1989.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 1
15.Loya Jirga No Spbstitute for Election .........  ............   24
16,Interview with an Ex-Miijister ..............................   25
17. Commander Sayed Jamal Executed without a Fair Trail .......... 26
18. Who Inspired changes in Eastern Europe? .....................  27
19. Note From RAC A Health Committee ............................. 28
20. Fall of Taraki’s Villige ....................................  29
Cover: Dec. 27th 1989, gathering to condemn the Soviet invassion. (See pages 16—17)
                                                      You can get our magazine Representatives of the Afghan



/
     Dr.Mohammad Ashraf Amanyar Regional Office of Afghan Mujahideen for Southeast Asia No. 902/4 Jalan Tun Ismail Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel. 03-291 7943,
         03-291 4835
     Abdul Hanan Waheed 52-B, Anson Road,
     Crickle Wood London NW2, U.K. Tel.01 -208.0763
     Eng. Saifur Rehman Halimi Afghan Information Bureau 35-10 Farrington, Flushing New York 11354, U.S.A Tel.718-961 7663
     Mohammad Shakir P.O.Box. 47139 Kuwait Tel. 3612683
     ■i .
     F;
     P.O.Box 10238 Madina, Sadui Arabia Tel.573 4732
 Dr.AbdulAzizMajidi P.O.Box. 1848 Canberra 2601 Australia Tel.473051
 M.HalimTanweer Infoimatie Bureau van Afghanse Mujahideen Postbus. 1492 8001 B1 Zwalle, Hollano Tel.543759
 Qabil Saddiqi 3rd Floor, Flat 59 New Golden Market P.O.Box 7538 Dubi, U.E.A Tel. 283 136
 Qasim Hemat Bureau D’informations 1040 Bruxelles, Belgique Tel. 02-735 5011
   Eng. Mir Azam Afghani P.O.Box 15271 Al-Ain, U.E.A.
   Tel. 655744
from the Mujahideen.
     Sayed Abduallah Street No.30 Ryadh, Saudi Arabia Tel.563 1543
     KabirAkhtari 15 rue due Progres 93230 Romainville Paris, France Tel. 4287 2308
Eng. Abdul Saboor Akhtari Information Buro der Afghanischen Mojahedin Theater Street 12 D-5300 Bonn 1 West Germany
Tel.0228-693061 -2
Ml! Sill
saart*5"
                                                                                                                                                                                   W:-
mmSm
■■■■■■
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i

2
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
Editorial
Reverberation of Afghan Jihad Echoes Around the Globe.
      The statues of Laat and Manaai in Mecca were broken in 632 while the statue of Lenin in Lithuania, the Wall in Berlin, and the Communist Insignia from the Rumanian flag were torn down in 1989. Both of these iconoclastic events took place ten years after the migration and holy resistance of a group of Muslims against tyranny. In both 632 and 1989 symbols representing repressive and pagan systems were destroyed as a consequence of an Islamic Jihad and the accompanying act of migration.
      In the case of Mecca the historical account is clear as to how migration and Jihad caused the fall of paganism, but how did the Afghan migration and Jihad contribute to the freedom of Eastern Europe?
      The answer to this question lies in the success of the Afghan Mujahideen in reversing the Soviet philosophy of the "irreversibility” of Communism. This philosophy which was put into practice by the Soviet military had brainwashed many societies to believe in the invincibility of the Red Army. But the Afghan Mujahideen showed that the bad guys do not always win. The failure of the Soviet Army to crush the Afghan Resistance weakened the position of the old Kremlin policy-makers and thus brought to the fore individuals such as Gorbachev who desired reform. Had the Brezhnev Doctrine succeeded in Afghanistan, Gorbachev could not have justified perestroika.
      In order to sell his perestroika to the Soviet people, Gorbachev had to point out the problems of the past policies. The occupation of Afghanistan was a living example of the senseless sacrifice of the Soviet people and economy for the Soviet expansionist schemes, so Gorbachev now sought to distance himself from the decision to invade Afghanistan. When government
 officials criticized the invasion as "an error and ah immoral act", they were mostly concerned with the ruin brought to their own country rather than the ruin brought to Afghanistan.
       On an international level, Gorbachev also admitted that Afghanistan was a "bleeding wound". He had to disavow his support of the invasion to cover-the fact that withdrawal from Afghanistan had become his only option due to the military defeat by Mujahideen and political defeat signalled by the presence of the ever-increasing migration of the Afghan people who refused to live under Communist repression.
       Exposing the Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan to the Soviet public brought considerable changes inside the Soviet Union, the results of which are visible to
 anyone. For example, Sakharov, a critiq of the Soviet-Afghan policy who was considered a traitor during preperestroika, became a hero in the eyes of the Soviet people before his recent death. As another example, some of the Soviet soldiers and officers who were awarded the hero medals of the Afghan-Soviet War repently retuned them to the authorities calling them "medals of shame".
      The open policy criticism by the Chief of the Soviet Union has also permitted other Soviet groups to investigate and criticize the invasion, as the Soviet Central Committee (Politburo) recently has criticized the small size (numbering four) of the group of decision-makers who formulated the plan for the invasion of Afghanistan. The echoing of the criticism of Brezhnev expansionism bears the mark of those who also wish to find a scapegoat for the current crises in Soviet satellite nations.
       Soviet criticism of the error of the invasion of Afghanistan has had a reverberating effect through its broader indications of the error of similar invasion and subjugation of nations over the past seventy years. Nations in Eastern Europe took Gorbachev’s criticism of past Soviet policy as a legitimization of their demand for freedom. Further, the extrication of the Red Army by the heroic sacrifices of the Afghan Mujahideen convinced the suppressed nations that Communist expansion was reversible. This realization was a turning point for the freedom-loving people under Soviet repression who courageously tore down the symbols of tyranny and demanded reforms. As a European analyst stated recently, what happened in 1917 in Russia was not a revolution but a coup d’etat; the revolution is what is currently going on in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
       Although we saw that the Jihad and migration of the Afghan Muslims forced the defeat of the Soviet army and loosened the chains around the necks of the Eastern Bloc countries, the chains on the Muslim nations have been reinforced. In Lithuania, they brought down the statue of Lenin but Gorbachev insists he will use talks rather than tanks to deal with the Lithuanian freedom movement. In Azerbaijan, however, the freedom demonstrations of the Muslim people have already faced the Soviet tanks this year. In Rumania, despite the fact that the new Rumanian government removed the Communist insignia from their flag, the Soviet Union officially recognized the new government without a qualm. But, in Afghanistan, Gorbachev applies a double standard and monthly supplies $300 million of weapons and sends Soviet bombers to prop up a Communist regime which was rejected by the Afghan people long ago.
       The continued Soviet aggression in Afghanistan may stem from their fear of the formation of anlslamic government in Afghanistan. An Islamic government formed in Afghanistan after the defeat of the Soviet Red Army and after a decade of Jihad will have a tremendous influence on the Muslim masses worldwide, especially on those Muslims living under the Soviet occupation. But why would anyone, except the tyrants, fear Islam, a system of ethics and social justice which is the only antidote for the materialism and decadence currently threatening human civilization?
       The superpowers's behaviour
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
3
 towards Islam suggests that they do not comprehend this religion because there is abundant evidence of a collusion between the superpowers to suppress Islam and Islamic governments, so that in any agreement between the Soviets and the West, the issue of the prevention of an Islamic government is an area of common interest from which other related agreements are made. As far back as 1985, former American President Richard Nixon suggested that both superpowers pool their resources to jointly combat the threat of Islamic fundamentalism. As recently as mid-December 1989, the Pentagon organized a conference to discuss future American political and military strategy towards the Muslim world. According to Professor Bulliet of Columbia University and the Middle East Institute who attended the conference, the majority opinion was formed by a coalition of conservatives, hawkish anticommunists, and Zionists who view Islam as a threat to the U.S. and Western civilization in the same manner as Communism was previously viewed. They decided that it would be in the U.S. interest to oppose Islam and Islamic politics in the Muslim world. It appears that the Americans would like to replace the Western anti-Communist fervour with anti-lslamic fervour.
       Supporting the hypothesis of collusion between superpowers is the American decision of cutting off aid to the Mujahideen for several months during a very crucial time when the Najib government was about to fall. At the same time as the Americans cut off aid to the Mujahideen, a tremendous increase in the Soviet arms shipments to the Najib government occurred. It appears as if it was decided by the superpowers in advance to bring a balance of power between the Mujahideen and the Najib government so that the formation of an Islamic government could be prevented or at least deferred until another alternative is found.
       It may have been their search for an alternative to the Mujahideen government that recently both superpowers separately met with the former Afghan King Zahir Shah to persuade him to form a nationalist government.
       The best course for Gorbachev would be to allow the Afghan nation to determine its own destiny. Since the Soviets admit the invasion was a mistake, instead of providing $300 million per month to Najib to kill more Afghans and to destroy their villages, it
 would be much better for the Soviets to use this money for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, a country in ruins because of the Soviet's mistake.
       Similarly,’for tne U.S., the best course, as also recommended by Professor Bulliet, would be to adopt a positive attitude toward Islam in the coming decade. Such a policy would help the U.S. benefit from the historical political current that is flowing across the Muslim world where Islamic politics is in the ascendancy, and, at the same time, lessen the American military burden which would be undertaken to continue to support repressive anti-lslamic regimes.
       Regardless of the efforts of the superpowers to derail the Mujahideen from their course of establishing an Islamic Government, the Jihad continues. Defection from the ranks of the Najib regime is gradually reducing its hold on Afghanistan. The Mujahideen who have been totally united in their demand for an Islamic government are examining ways to best establish a lasting system of Islamic government in their country. For the formation of a strong central government the Afghan Mujahideen recognize the need for a nationally approved leader. The mechanism
 preferred by the majority for achieving this goal is national elections, and the details of the method for conducting elections are currently being specified.
        The freedom-generating events in Eastern Europe, following the completion pf the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, have greatly added to the Mujahideen conviction that God has not wasted their efforts and sacrifices because every man or woman who is freed will wish freedom for others, including, especially, for those whose sacrifices contributed to their freedom. Thus, the number of the Mujahideens' friends and supporters will continue to expand.
        The Mujahideen appreciate the good will of those friends who have been supporting their struggle whether this support is spiritual, political, or material. We hope these friends will continue their selfless support until Afghanistan is totally free and an elected Islamic government is duly established.
        We firmly believe that Afghanistan will soon be free from any vestiges of the Soviet occupation and will stand tall among the family of free nations for its role in bringing dignity and freedom to other nations as well as its own.
Captured Communist regime troops.
4
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
         Hekmatyar links changes
              in E. Europe to
                 Afghan
                  Jihad
 Eng.G. Hematyar
     In a recent interview, Mr. Gulbudin Hekmatyar, the most dynamic and charismatic leader of the Afghan Mujahideen, threw light on different aspects of the Afghan Jihad with special reference to changes in the Eastern Bloc. The. interview is being reproduced below in question-answer form.
Q. Brother Hekmatyar, what was your feeling on the day when you knew the Soviets were leaving Afghanistan?
Ans. Praise be to Allah that the Mujahid nation succeeded in their struggle to extricate the foreign Communist forces from Afghanistan, and that the pride in this historical achievement became theirs.
The day when the last soldier was leaving Afghanistan, we were busy forming the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan (IIGA) through the Shura Council elections. Still I cannot forget the moment of realization that the Soviets were leaving. I had amazing feelings that I cannot put into words. I also shed tears, which were tears of thankfulness for the blessings of God Almighty.
    The feat that was accomplished by our hand was much greater than our ability. The greatest military power on earth was defeated by the hand of our poor and weak people who were equipped only with the weapons of Iman. (Belief in Allah). From the beginning, nobody in the world could believe that this defeat was possible,
but, thanks be to Allah, the Soviets were defeated and were forced to leave our country.
    When the Soviet troops had invaded our country, a verse of the Holy Quran had flashed before my eyes, and I had felt sure that Almighty Allah had willed that the fall of the Soviet empire would be initiated in Afghanistan. The verse was VIII: 7 from Sura Al-Anfal which says.
    "Remember the occasion when Allah was holding out to you the promise that one of the two hosts would fall to you: you wished the weaker host should fall to you: but Allah willed to prove by His words the Truth to be truth and to cut across the roots of the disbelievers so that the Truth should come out as truth and falsehood should be proved to be falsehood, even though the evil-doers did not like it." (trans. Maududi).
    This verse was revealed at the time of the Battle of Badr when the Prophet (PBUH) was required to face the army of Quraish when he had hoped to only attack a caravan, I felt very strongly that in Afghanistan again Allah Almighty had willed it that the original force of the atheists be fielded so that its roots would be destroyed.
    The day when the Soviet troops left Afghanistan, and the "last" Soviet soldier passed the Afghan border, this expectation of mine that the Soviet empire would fall was met, the expectation for which I had waited for, years to arrive.
Q. Parallel to the Soviet defeat In Afghanistan, the government of the Eastern Bloc are in a state of change. Some of these governments are dissolving the Communist Party, and the Berlin Wall has fallen. How do you assess this situation?
Ans. I expected that after the defeat of the Soviets in Afghanistan, there would be monumental changes and extensive worldwide consequences related to the defeat, especially in the Communist Bloc countries who were tied to the Soviet Union. I was not disappointed in my expectations; colossal changes have begun in Eastern Europe and in the Soviet Union itself. There is no other explanation for these unequivocal and profound changes except the Soviet defeat at the hand of our Mujahideen.
    This was a natural phenomenon, a
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
5
 logical sequel. The big powers usually, as a requirement for their existence, try to induce in the smaller and oppressed nations-an exaggerated perception of their power and importance. At the moment when this perception becomes damaged and the exploited nations realize that they could resist and could obtain their freedom, the decline of the big power begins and does not stop its downslide until the decline is complete.
     For example, Great Britain, with all its might and grandeur and its jurisdiction over half of the world, fulfilling the saying, that "the sun never set on the Britain Empire", faced defeat in three wars with the Afghans. From
 here the chain of its decline began and continued until the royal empire was delivered to the dustbin of history.
     In the same way, we were hopeful that the fall of the empire of the Soviet Union would also begin in Afghanistan. As with Great Britain, the world perspective of the Soviet Union was an exaggerated and false picture. That image needed to be broken and replaced with a more realistic image. The Soviet empire was in "need" of a defeat. It was necessary that the Soviet forces enter a field somewhere and be defeated, and this happened in Afghanistan, and from Afghanistan its decline began.
     Today, all the oppressed nations are wondering why they have not been like the Afghans, to fight for their independence. They say, "What do the Afghans have that we don’t have? If the Afghans have been able to gain their independence, why shouldn’t we be able to gain ours?" In fact, during the recent resistance in Poland, they chanted these slogans.
     Anyone who contemplates the dramatic changes in the Communist Bloc will reach the conclusion that all these changes were triggered by the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan. In the West, however, some narrow-minded circles are not ready to give the credit of these changes to the Afghan Islamic Resistance. They are trying to analyze these changes differently.
     Those people who try to attribute all these profound and monumental changes in the Eastern Bloc to one individual such as Gorbachev are making a mistake. They ignore all the deep changes that have taken place in the attitudes and judgment of people. It is not possible that individuals or systems such as that of the Soviet
 Union could play a pivotal role in the changing of their own image.
     It is also true that the personalities themselves may be the- result of these social changes. If Gorbachev is calling for reforms, it is the social conditions that have prepared the milieu for his call. Because the attitude of the people has changed, they approve of Gorbachev. They have realized the weaknesses and inabilities of Communism, and they want to change their own situation. They thought the Communist military force was strong; now they realize how weak Communism is.
     The most important causal factor of the changes in Eastern Europe was the Soviet defeat in Afghanistan. However, instead of our Islamic Umma (Community) receiving maximum benefit from our grand historical victory, and instead of placing "Islam" as the name of the victor in this historical
  conflict so that Muslims all over the world will feel pride in their religion Islam and exhibit this as a victory of the inscrutable Islamic force in the world, instead, we see that the West has attempted to explain how they themselves are the victors of the war in Afghanistan. The West, then, is trying to reap the benefits of this victory.
      Moscow, too, unfortunately, instead of choosing the right path is going astray. Communism, as a system of thought, was initially a reaction against the decadent Western materialism. Now, however, because of the failures the Communists have faced, they would like to return to the old system against which they had originally arisen. What the Communists needed was to have instead chosen a different and more enlightened path, for the social problems of the Western society are even greater than those of the Communist society,
      With this view in mind, I was vigorously protesting the interference of the Western countries in the Afghan
 issue, so that they would not be able to claim the victory of our Jihad. They are trying to prove that the Soviets were defeated by modern American weapons. If the Soviets could be defeated by modern weapons, they should also have been defeated in Vietnam. In all the clashes that the West has previously had with the Communist Bloc, nowhere did the Soviets take one step backward. In every confrontation with Communism over the past several decades, the West had to retreat. Now it time, faced defeat and humiliation here is history that Communism, for the first in Afghanistan. It was a confrontation between Islam and Communism, and it was a defeat of Communism by Islam.
 Q. What is your view of the role of the West in the confrontation between Islam and Communism?
 Ans. The West has not only been fighting the spread of Communism, but
 has opened up another front against the spread of Islam. The Soviets also have been fighting on two fronts, against Western capitalistic imperialism and against Islam. Active Islamicists, at the same time, have been struggling against both Communism and the Western decadence. This has created a triangle of oppositional forces.
      The West and the Soviets have taken different approaches in their insidious plots. The West has attempted to suppress Islam by supporting secularisation of the governments in the various Muslim countries. Soviet Communism has taken a more violent approach by initiating a series of military coups d’etat such as the one in South Yemen and the 1973 Afghan coup.
      The Afghan Jihad now has brought a revolutionary change in the triangular opposition of the Soviets, the West, and Islam. The Afghan Jihad exposed the false face of Communist expansion in the world and thus loosened the chain around the necks of the captive nations
6
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 of Eastern Europe. Gorbachev did not lead the Soviets to a new policy, the Afghan Jihad did.
     The West has mistaken this decline of Communism as their own doing. They feel sure they have been declared "the winner", but they cannot see the end of the race. Their materialistic economy has no future, their moral fiber is torn by divorce and abortion, and their health is threatened by the spectres of drugs and the epidemic of AIDS.
     We must continue to struggle against anti-lslamic forces, whether they be from the Wast or the East. We must work towards a model Islamic society showing tolerance towards others, moderation in our own lives, and a firm hold on the tenets of Allah.
 Q. Before the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the Amin regime was in a state of decline due to the combined efforts of our Mujahideen. However, even at that time, there was no agreement on the choice of one leader. We are still facing this problem of choosing a leader. What is your evaluation?
 Arts. I am hopeful that, just as we have overcome the most dangerous and difficult periods of the Jihad in the past, so this problem of leadership will also be solved. We are not the only group who has faced this problem; every revolution naturally has passed through this stage. My judgment from the current situation is that, although the number of parties has increased, proportional to this increase, the issue of unity of leadership has become easier and less complicated.
     First of all, it is clear that the experience and maturity of organization currently possessed by the parties is superior to the raw youth of our organizations at the time of Amin. If at that time we had succeeded, indeed our problems would have been greater than now. Al-hamdulillah, now, from the point of view of organization and experienced and trained personnel, and from the point of view of our roots inside the country and among the military, we are in a better position and we are better prepared today than ever before to establish an Islamic system in Afghanistan.
     In the past, we faced a vacuum of leadership, but today, alhamdulillah, this vacuum has been filled.
     Today we have leadership at every level, able to lead a village, a community, a city, a tribe, a province, or the nation as a whole.
     In the past, when, choosing a leader we also faced an information gap. The people of the nation could not choose because they did not know the choice; the Islamic leadership had not clearly emerged. Through the years of our struggle, as the Jihad parties have become stronger and stronger, the people of our nation have become aware of the existence of good Islamic leaders at every level and have been able to gather detailed information about them.
     The problem today is that, although we have many leaders, the people of our nation have been deprived of leadership because they do not have an elected leader. The issue of and election between a few leaders is a simple matter and solvable! As soon as we give the nation a chance for elections, the problem will be solved.
     In the past, insisting on elections would have been wrong because the leaders were not ready and the people were not informed. Today, though, we have organized Islamic parties and recognized pious leaders, and it is only a matter of giving the people a chance to choose whomever they trust. We believe that all forces loyal to Islam should be working on the issue of elections so that the nation will get a chance to freely choose their leadership.
 Q. What are the big obstacles preventing the nation from having an opportunity up until now to choose their leader?
 Ans. In my opinion the basic problem is that foreign forces would like to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan. They want to determine the destiny of our nation themselves. Their interference in our affairs has caused the current problem. It is clear that these forces are not interfering directly, but they have a group of people working for them, and it is through these people that they are interfering in our work of giving the opportunity to our people to elect their leader.
     These foreign forces are using the small and weak parties and scaring them from participating in elections. And these parties know themselves, intellectually, that if the issue of elections is left to the nation, their future
 as a party will be dark. It is because of this that they are trying to put obstacles in the way of having elections. In my opinion it is due to the interference of the foreigners that the weak parties cannot trust their own people, and these parties are being used against the process of election.
  Q. Several days ago Gilani said that the election procedures had been prepared. But now we see that the issue has not been taken seriously. Can you please explain? !
 Ans. Unfortunately, up until now, the issue of elections has not been considered a serious issue by some of the parties. We still see some whose entire position on elections is to defer them. They say that, in the winter, elections are not possible, and, as the war is continuing, the elections will upset the war efforts. These same "friends" told us in the summer that elections would cause us to lose valuable days of fighting the Communist regime. What these "friends" are really saying is that there is no season for elections, neither in the winter nor in the summer. And, those who pretend to be worried about the war effort really have no role in the war, not do they care much about the
 strung le.^entiy,
                more than 240 districts and subdistricts are free, where there is no war, and, in these places, elections should take place. Among the camps of refugees, there is no war; there also elections should take place. In those places where there is war, we can leave them until Afghanistan is totally freed before we hold elections.
      In contrast to our "friends" who want to defer elections, the rest of the nation is demanding immediate elections. Thanks be to Allah that the issue of elections is being discussed at every forum. In every part of our nation, the majority of the Mujahideen are for elections and are insisting that elections should take place. Many Islamic parties outside of the Resistance are also recommending elections.
      I feel quite certain that those who ate against elections are currently under various pressures to change their views. They are under pressure from within their parties, from the nation, from the Mujahideen, from the refugees, and from some foreign sources. They are especially under pressure because they have no alternative proposal which will convince their party members, the
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 friends of Jihad, and the people of our nation that it is a fair way of choosing a leader.
     I think now that only those who are not sure about their leadership role are the ones who are afraid of elections. Our nation as a whole has accepted elections as a way to solve the problem. Thus the various parties are under pressure to accept elections whether they want to or not.
 Q Since the Soviet exit from Afghanistan, the new policy of Iran has complicated the issue. Was this change of policy expected?
 Ans. In many ways it was unexpected. We thought that our Iranian friends would always be in favour of the establishment of a strong Islamic government. They knew the experience of the Afghans in being friends with the Soviets so we expected that they would be cautious in their dealings with the Soviets. Our experience should have been enough for them. But, unfortunately, during this time when the Afghan issue has not yet been solved, when the Afghans are still being killed by the Soviet weapons, when the Soviets have not yet given up supporting their puppet regime, in such a time, Iran thaws its relationship with the Soviets and befriends them, even to the extent that now the Kabul regime appreciates the position of Iran in relation to the Afghan issue!
     The bad publicity of the Kabul regime against Iran has completely stopped. Now the Iranians, too, have changed their vocabulary when talking about the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime, and the Afghan revolution. They are talking about "cease-fire", about "dialogue" and about a "regional conference" for solving the Afghan issue. Whose words are these? Iran has even said that if the Kabul regime is acceptable to the Afghan people, they will not protest it!
     Our hope was that Iran would have stuck to their position that the foreign forces should abstain from their interference in Afghanistan, that the Soviets should withdraw their support from their hand-picked regime, that they should stop sending weapons to Afghanistan that they should abstain from killing Afghans, and that they should allow the Afghans to determine their own destiny.
     No one has the right to interfere in the internal Afghan affairs or to try to
 determine its destiny, whether in the name of being a regional neighbour or whether in the name of being a superpower. The Afghans should be left to their own affairs.
     That Iran should make such a turnabout in their policy toward Afghanistan was not. only unexpected, it was unimaginable.
 O.  Last week it was reported that it was due to the explicit and forceful position of the Hezbi-Islami that the Americans changed their idea of providing weapons dlrpctly to the commanders. What Is your understanding of this?
 Ans. We had considered this a very wicked interference in our internal affairs. Those commanders who received help directly from the U.S. embassy are known to us ; we have their list. We know quite well the intent of the Americans in giving direct aid. They, like the-Soviets, desire their own Najib and would impose their own man on our nation. They want to fill the "vacuum" left when the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan. Perhaps the Americans have not learned from the unsuccessful experience of the Soviets in Afghanistan.
     It surprised me to see that these Jihad parties allowed the Americans to interfere in our internal affairs, the result of which will be to cause internal clashes among our people. We must continue to stand firm against such interference.
 O. Has the West also now become a threat to establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan?
 Ans. • We have always said that the West believed that the Soviets in Afghanistan were a threat to their own benefits from exploitation of the area. Only to this level was the issue of Afghanistan of interest to them. For this reason, they wanted the Soviet forces to leave Afghanistan; they wanted to free Afghanistan from the claws of the Soviets. Yet the Americans would never stay neutral on the question of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The propaganda of the West against the Mujahideen since the Soviet exit shows to what an extent they the against the establishment of an Islamic government by the hand of the Mujahideen, because they see this as a threat to their interests.
 Q. Do you think that the Americans and the Soviets may have reached a mutual agreement about the future of
 Afghanistan?
 Ans. I imagine that long ago the Soviets and fhe Americans reached an agreement. Regarding their abhorrence to the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan, there is no difference between them. The difference between them is over the issue of how to distribute the various governmental posts in the future Afghan government. Each side is trying to have a part in the future Afghan government. They do not differ on what type of government should be in Afghanistan; they agree that there should be a broad-based government in Afghanistan in which both Moscow and Washington have a share.
 Q. Was the Soviet invasion predictable in 1979? What was your reaction at that time?
 Ans. The day when the Soviet soldiers invaded Afghanistan, we were not expecting that they would commit such a mistake. At this time the regime of Hafizullah Amin was in a state of decline, cities one after another were conquered by the hand of the Mujahideen, military units one after another were joining the Mujahideen, and Kabul was besieged by the Mujahideen. Any moment Amin's regime was expected to fall, and it was obvious that only Soviet troops could save the regime, but we did not expect that to happen. Our Afghan military officers sent us messages that, if we pursue our planned activities, there would be a good chance of a Soviet invasion. Even with those messages, we did not believe that the Soviets would commit such a blunder. We also discussed the possibility of invasion with other friends of Afghanistan, but they also totally discounted the idea that the Soviets would consider invasion.
     When the Soviets did invade, our first information was not clear. Kabul. Radio was still taking the side of Amin while Radio Moscow broadcasted a statement of Babrak Karmal. What an unusual scene! Soviet forces had been concentrated on the northern borders of Afghanistan so that the attack on Kabul was made swiftly and suddenly by land and by air. Gradually it dawned on us that, while we were waiting to see the fall of Amin's regime, we were faced instead with the Soviet forces.
8
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
     Although we were concerned that the success of our Jihad would be deferred for a while, we realized that the invasion brought some advantages as well. Any Afghan who had any doubt about Taraki, Amin, and Karmal being Soviet puppets would now clearly know the truth; the Soviet invasion proved who was propping up these regimes. Ever since Taraki's coup in April 1978, we had been facing the problem of convincing our nation that the Communist regime was the slave of the Soviets. Our people could not comprehend what the difference was between this regime and that of King Zahir Shah. To help our people understand the consequences of a Communist regime was very hard. The Soviet invasion solved our problem. It would unite our nation to stand beside our movement.
     Another advantage of the invasion would be to change our Jihad from a local issue to an international issue. Our struggle against the Communist regime would have broader implications regionally and internationally and we would find worldwide support. Our neighbouring Muslim countries would support our movement to protect their own independence and regional security. World powers would sympathize with our struggle against this threatening example of Communist expansion.
     Thus, the Soviet invasion was beneficial for our Resistance from two points of view: one, it united our nation against the Communists, and, two, it broadened the issue into an international issue which elicited world sympathy toward our struggle.
 Q. It is said that the morning after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the leaders of the other parties came to your central office to see you. Do you remember what you discussed then?
 Ans. We discussed what will happen and what we should do. Some of them were very worried and some were of the view that we should encourage the Western nations to show a strong reaction toward the Soviet invasion. They represented many different views; the views that prevailed among the people of our nation were in the minds of these leaders.
 Q. The assistance of some countries worldwide was delayed yet eventually they took the side
 of the Mujahideen. Why do you think they made this decision?
 Ans. To answer this question, let me give you some examples.
     When the Brigade of Asmar (Kunar Province) with two helicopters gave themselves up to the Hezb-i-lslami, I discussed with General Fazle Haq, the Governor of the NWFP of Pakistan, how we could bring these two helicopters to Pakistan. He said he would consult the higher authorities but admitted that he did not think anyone would agree to it. Finally, their answer was indeed negative.
     You probably remember the reaction of the American President Carter to the Soviet invasion. He declared that if the Soviets took one step further, the U.S. would not put up with it. Clearly he thought that the Afghan issue was a dead issue, that there was no probability of the recovery of Afghanistan from the Soviet grasp, and that the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan was unimaginable.
     The attitude was strong at that time that whenever the Soviets would enter a country, they would never leave. We do not remember any country at that time who expressed any hope that the Soviets would leave. Everyone thought that in a short time it would be all over. In a press conference on his trip to India shortly after the invasion, Brezhnev was asked about the situation in Afghanistan. He said that in three months there would be peace and security prevailing in Afghanistan. He meant that the resistance would be liquidated and that any scattered skirmishes would soon stop.
     If the Resistance had been unable to prove that it could continue the war and if it had not shown the ability to withstand the Soviet invasion, never would anyone have taken the risk to back a resistance against the Soviets for which there was no future hope. No one would have risked the enmity of the Soviets. However, when these countries perceived that, even after the Soviet invasion, the war was continuing and that the Soviets were not able to quickly crush the resistance, their hopes were raised, their interest in the Mujahideen grew, and they took positions to back our struggle.
 Q. Radio Kabul and other media have reported the arrest of a few Kabul regime military officers and indicated that this plot by which Hekjnatyar wanted to topple the
 Kabul regime has failed. What information do you have about this?
 Ans. My proposal stands that military officers who are not members of Communist parties should stand up and topple the Najib regime, and then together with the Mujahideen commanders situated around Kabul form a Revolutionary Council. This council should within six months hold elections for an elected council and an elected government. The Revolutionary Council should then transfer power to the elected government.
     The arrest of a few people in Kabul and the extensive propaganda related to their arrest had no effect on our proposal. Our forces in Kabul are organized into small cells, each operating independently of the others and without knowledge of the others. The cells are numerous but very small so that if an arrest is made very few are exposed.
     In the recent case, the regime arrested one person who was forced by physical and mental torture to reveal the names of anyone that he knew. The government arrested several innocent people from among the government workers and students and then advertised this action as "foiling a coup".
     The government is very worried about an army uprising and for that reason they plot against certain officers and arrest them under the pretence that they were planning a coup d'etat.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
9
       The great Muhjahid and honourable Islamic scholar Professor Dr. Abdullah Azzam, head of the Afghan Jihad Services Bureau and educational consultant of the Muslim World League, was martyred in a car bomb explosion planted for him at the entrance of Saba-e-Leil Mosque of Jamrud Road in Peshawar, Pakistan, on Friday, November 24, 1989, at 12:30 p.m. as he was proceeding to the mosque to lead the Friday prayer. With him was also martyred his eldest son Muhammed (23) and middle son Ibrahim (14) who were with him in the car. The three died instantly and were transferred to Pabbi village where they were buried in the same evening in the presence of a big crowd of Afghan and Arab Mujahideen in the Martyrs' Graveyard.
       The sophisticated way in which this treacherous crime was carried out gives reason to believe that the incident was planned by some quarters which possess huge facilities and numerous agents and that Dr. Azzam was intended in his person. A few weeks ago a bomb was planted for him under the speaker's podium in the same mosque. It would have killed him and many other worshippers had it not been detected by the attendants two hours before the time set for the explosion. On November 24th it seems his movements were closely monitored from the time he left his house. This is evident from the fact that although he was using a different car from the one he usually takes, it was hit with accuracy by the killer who pushed the button connecting the circuit through a wire 50 meters distant from the explosion device set in the drainage ditch where the car was turning the corner onto the side street to the mosque. It is therefore concluded that some power must have been behind the killing after finding the presence of Dr. Abdullah Azzam detrimental to their nefarious designs and criminal intrigues and so decided to get rid of him in his cowardly manner.
        Born in a Palestinian village, Sella Haressiyya in 1941, Abdullah Azzam completed his early education
 at his native village. He graduated in theology from Damascus University in 1966 and then joined Al-Azhar University in Cairo to get his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. He joined the well-known Islamic movement operating throughout the Arab world, Al-lkhwanul Muslimoon, took part in the struggle against Zionist hegemony, and participated in the 1967 Arab-lsrael war.
       After the war he emigrated from the West Bank to Jordan. At the Jordanian University in Amman, he started his professional career as a lecturer of theology. Abdullah Azzam’s difficulties increased with every passing day. He became disappointed in his profession, in the political set-up of his country, in the Palestinian leadership for their secular attitudes, and in the narrowness of his platform for addressing the Muslim Ummah. In view of this, he may have been relieved rather than grieved when, after one of his usual fights with the authorities, he was dismissed from his University position. He knew it was useless to protest or to try to reverse the decision, as it enjoyed the blessings of higher
 circles. So he packed up his belongings and departed for Saudi Arabia where he hoped to fare better in his search for a suitable climate for his ideology.
       In 1980 while in Saudi Arabia, Abdullah Azzam had the opportunity of meeting a delegation of Afghan Mujahideen who had come to perform Haj. He soon found himself attracted to
 their circles and wanted to know more about the Afghan Jihad. When the story of the Afghan Jihad was unfolded to Abdullah Azzam, he felt that it was this cause of the Afghan people forwhich he had been searching for so long. He arranged visits to Afghanistan where his impressions about the Afghan Mujahideen were confirmed beyond oubt. He shifted to Pakistan and tarted delivering lectures at the Islamic University, Islamabad. He later decided to devote himself fully to the cause of the Afghan people, and settled in Peshawar, the capital of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) of Pakistan.
       The assassination of Dr. Abdullah Azzam was no doubt a plot against the Islamic Ummah and the
10
Mujahideen Monthly/January 199C
 Islamic Jihad in Afghanistan of which Dr. Azzam represented an important link in the chain. He has accompanied the march of Jihad in Afghanistan for nearly eight years and has utilized speech and pen to publicize it and bring it out of regionalism and nationalism into the stratum of the whole Islamic world. He made the Afghan Jihad a focus of interest and a joint venture for all Muslims.
       Sheikh Abdullah Azzam has often said, concerning the numerous attempts to take him out of the Afghan scene, that he will never leave the Afghan cause unless he is forcibly removed or killed. His greatest wish was to be martyred in the cause of Allah which has now gone into fulfilment. He has fulfilled most of his other wishes as well. He has participated in Jihad and has helped others to participate with either their services or their financial contributions. He has established the Islamic Coordination Council which includes nearly 20 Islamic organizations working in support of the Afghan Jihad, offering services inside and outside Afghanistan in the fields of education, heaJth, relief, social care, and the like, administered by efficient staff stationed in numerous places in the liberated areas and refugee camps. He 1 given speeches and lectures in mosques, clubs, and conferences in nearly every country of the world, has authored about 20 books and brochures, and has published a weekly and a monthly magazine to promote the Jihad and to confront the designs of the enemies of Jihad.
       He believed that one of the most serious designs of the enemies of Jihad was the conflict between the Hizbi-lslami and the Jamiat-i-lslami resulting in the Takhar incident. Since then the honourable Sheikh had not enjoyed sleep or rest or had his mind at ease. He worked day and night to close the r'.tt between the Mujahideen and travelled to the extreme north to the scone of the incident to meet the parties \o (he conflict. He made this affair his main concern until Allah favoured him with success in obtaining the signatures of Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Re' bani on a document of reconciliation between the two parties. The two leaders disclosed in their condolence speeches that this agreement was concluded in the night before his assassination. When asked why he had come so late at night, he said that decisions to bring good to
 society not be delayed. After his death, a meeting between Hekmatyar and Rabbani was held to formalize their agreement to cooperate in the solution of this problem and for future cooperation.
   Shaheed Ebrahim son of Dr. Azzam
       Dr. Azzam left behind three sons: Huthaifa (17), Hamza (12), and Musab (5), three married daughters, and a Mujahida wife, whom he had given the option to live in a safe place with adequate facilities or be with him in his dangerous life. She insisted on sharing his struggle with him and plans to continue in the Jihad after his death. Her family is coming from Jordan to try to convince her to leave, but she says she will not leave. She has her own Jihad activities in the refugee camps in Pakistan-ten schools and a nursery and a sewing and training center for widows and sisters of Shaheed. The wife of her Shaheed son Muhammed is also staying with them. She says, "My Jihad is here and my family is here. How can I think of leaving? Perhaps the enemies of Islam think that they will stop Jihad by killing my husband. Enshallah, his death will bring a better Jihad from all of us. We do not cry for my husband and sons, they are Shaheed. And we do not cry for ourselves; our Jihad will be better, Enshallah!"
        Colleagues of the Shaheed and the learned scholars of the Ummah have now the grave responsibility to continue his work. Jihad is continuing until the Day of Judgment and the banners of Islam cannot be allowed to fall because of the death of an individual. They have to be held high from generation to generation and from one Mujahid to another.
The vow of Azzam's son
     In an interview with the Mujahideen Monthly, Sheikh Abdullah Azzam's oldest living son Huthaifa vowed that he will continue the mission of his father. This 17 year-old boy relates that he was also planning to accompany his father to the mosque that fateful day, but when he opened the car door to get in, his father directed him to stay at home. Had his father not prevented him from going in the car, he most certainly would have embraced martyrdom along with his father and two brothers. Now he vows, along with all the Islamic supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, to continue the mission of his Shaheed father and brothers until the establishment of a truly Islamic state in Afghanistan, with Allah's permission.
                      Shaheed Mohammad son of Dr. Azzam.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 If
               Hezb-i-lslami and Jamiat Islami Sign an Agreement
Eng.G.Hekmatyar (right) and Prof.B.Rubbani (left)
Leader of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan, Eng.G.Hekmatyar and Prof.B.Rubbani leader of Jamiat-i-lslami Afghanistan appear togather at a condolence meeting held for shaheed Abdullah Azzam in the first week of Dec. 1989. At this meeting the two leaders also disclosed
a signed agreement towards reconciling differences between their two parties. The document was signed the night before Dr.Azzam’s martyrdom. The main points of the agreement were to form a joint commission that will investigate past differences prevent
 future clashes between commanders, open weapon and amunition transport routes for each others mujahideen, and to mutually ban propaganda against each other. A copy of the original agreement as signed by the two leaders is presented below.
12
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 **7**#JI ,>*-^>-11 oJJI
 cuilj <Ji . uji ^                              siL^jij .  uUUJi  VJ *11^1
                                                          •      r>- ^
                       Cx*l\ JLAjj c^*^* t>-* J£ vj^                aii ' jx-jj
   :^-f-*Vl     L#ix ^_«5Lm.VI .-jj^JI     jLo^ia^      I «—*i-i ^xlfllj ^j_*>LwMy I
 yiJI                     ^ -fciJ       *L^i   IaIvj              LJLkLl '. V j I
     .VI J*.                     LUiiJI ^ Jx.         £_^*UI               . UjL. Qi.L>
              • U**4« J4—j Lxxi Lfxxjj 3_*£ail ^ ■».., ^1 jjJV I j . j>xVI ,j-» La j^i IjLi 3-xiaJ.I »xA JxIAjJ IaxIj >j-*1 J£ jL'iLj j! ,__^Lx llii'.l Ui O-a^L-^V I TxlxxJI j~k_* I l»«.l !ji ■-*■ ^-klLl I 1 -il j 1 • “ J < < I ■*■ • jLiliil
                                                                      •        ft
   .UJUI JJ-VL oVl ,> ol^-JI ^ LUjIU L^IjI jx—i J ^ UU2l : Uili
                       . (►!.«■. l-/ix jLjJI jV-LI f .IX J f+XXJ      JlliJl kiUH -N
 — tj US. k Xj- JIjJLm                    J   jj^XALkH ^Lal  j>kJI      k [ui
                                                                                                                        • • • i>W u- j
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         . jJLLk.UI jl £)LmJI jl JI>-«VI I fAX“T
                                  tfl^H .-.t^:j^«.Hj— LaUxllj .tAxxVI wAJJ -1 ^JUJI rUj . oUkVll fUlj . UJI fU <Lx 1>xi UiLi . foiLU JJIH JS
                                . I if 1 UJLik-a (^1 TjJ jj>«* <—•—ILi»i.I J«» ~ij 1 ^-aV—.VI : JljxV I j JU*VI j_k»J L ti a jj UJI jxH j sdJH jLa_i jlo*xl ^lx LkiiA-il • LxJ Li
 jiLcLjaili , L^lail Oiig <U>al ^                                 U1 ***l Lmj)
jLla^k <>fUI v-JLi ^i-^ll
  i*—+*~V v3U» >~1
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,^Lj »>fUI jLAjj JLi—Yl U-VL-yi TxXxxJI jxxl
Br. Hekmatyar and Br. Rubbani during the meeting when the agreement between two parties was read.
by Zulmai Tookhi
 Nowadays the topic under long discussions and hot debates in our migrated society is “elections”. Unfortunately, some of our politicians are questioning the praticability and viability of elections because they are not ready to share power and let the people participate in running their country. These politicians are ignoring the centuries-old legacy of those societies which have struggled for justice and human liberty. They flay at elections and interpret the idea according to their own vested interests.
 Some politicians in their eagerness to maintain their positions have said that elections are un-lslamic. Close examination of the Quran and Hadith as followed by the caliphs and succeeding governments in Islamic history reveals otherwise.
 The only source of political power in Isldm is the Ummah (Community of Believers). Authority over the Ummah is from the Ummah and for the Ummah. The Holy Prophet of Islam (PBUH) did not appoint a successor for himself, or even a Shura. It was clear that he left the decision to the discretion of the Ummah, and Hazrat Abu-Bakr (MABPWH) was chosen by a gathering of the people to be the first caliph of the Ummah.
 The second caliph Hazrat ‘Umar Farooq (MABPWH), in the agony of death and at the insistence of the people, named a seven-member Shura to elect the next caliph. He also ordered, “He who tries to become Amir by coercion rather by the result of consultation with the Muslim Community must be instantly beheaded.”
 When there were two candidates with equal votes, Hazrat Abdur-Rahman (MABPWH) was assigned to do some research to find out which candidate had more support from the people. He worked continuously and tirelessly for three days and three nights to ask all the residents, of Madinah, which candidate
 they preferred. He even asked the carvans which were arriving from Makkah. Finally, the conclusion was that Hazrat ‘Uthman (MABPWH) was chosen.
 Islamic governments continued to follow this pattern of obtaining the opinion of the people to chose a leader. The pattern was established by the Quran and the Hadith.
 The Holy Quran says “They conduct their affairs by consultations” and “consult them in affairs”. This indicates that the choice of amir or ruler is to be conducted by way of Shura (Council) or by Mushawara (Consultantion).
 To avoid self-centered, overly ambitious, and avaricious leaders, our Prophet (PBUH) ordered, “Never strive for rulership. If you were entrusted with such tasks by the Ummah, you will surely receive the blessings of the Exalted Allah (SWT). But if you personally strive and ask for rulership, Allah (SWT) will abandop you to your own.”
 The candidates are to be judged by the people on two criteria: knowledge and taqwa, i.e., commitment to Allah. Only knowledgeable people are to be entrusted with leadership. Our Beloved Prophet (PBUH) said, “When incompetent people are entrusted with the affairs of the Muslims, expect the outburst of the doomsday.”
 Mawlana Sayyed Abul-Ala Maududi has siad, “On specializing the sovereignty to the Exalted Allah, SWT, there is unanimity between Islamic government and theocracy. But, in the implementation procedure, it follows a separate way from that of the theocracy. Instead of confining all authority to a .particular class of the religious leaders, the Islamic government recognizes that all faithful members of the society — those who have vowed before Allah (SWT) to obey Him -- deserveand are_worthy of God’s
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
13
              Sheikh Tamim Adnani’s Brief background
 caliphate on the earth. The Islamic government transfers all authority and decision-making to the faithful masses. On this point, there is some unanimity between Islam and democracy on the formation of goveernments; appointing or deposing of the ruler and the affairs of a country should be decided through elections.”
 For those who still have some questions about whether we can apply modern ballot-box techniques to historical Islamic methods of elections, it is clear in the Islamic tradition of “orf” that whatever the Ummah finds to be necessary and useful, if it is not specifically prohibited by the Quran and Sunnah (traditions), it is allowed.
 There are many other reasons to have electios based on logic, national history, and social traditions.
 Let’s call our Mujahid nation to the poll stations in order to safeguard the blood of our martyrs. As Brother Hekmatyar said, ‘‘Ballots should replace bullets!” Let us put aside the gun, deceit, ruse, hypocrisy, and fakery, and give ballots, the message of peace, comfort, freedom, and social justice, to our people.
     The reasons against elections are weak and flimsy and all disappear on simple examination. Elections appear to be the only way to solve the problem of fairly representing               the
     multiplicity of ethnic, linguistic, religius and social subdivisions of our country.
Sheikh Tamim Adnani, a great scholar and mujahid, died of a heart attack on October 18, 1989, in Florida, USA. His dead body was shifted to Pakistan and buried in Martyrs’ Graveyard in Pabbi Camp near Peshawar.
Sheikh Adnani was born in Al-Quds in 1942 of a noble family. His grandfather Khurshid Pasha was the governor of Al-Quds in the Uthmanian period, while his father Muhammed Al-Adnani was a 'famous /poet. After the Zionist occupation of Palestine, Sheikh
 Adnani’s family migrated to Syria and settled in Halb Al-Shahba. After graduation from Ain-ul Shams University in Cairo he began his professional career as a teacher, and later was attached to the Saudi Airforce.
 In the last phase of his life, he became interested in the Afghan Jihad and resigned from his service to participate in jihad in Afghanistan and in Afghan relief agencies in Pakistan. He was a close associate of the mujahid scholar, Sheikh abdullah Azzam Shaheed.
The Mujahideen Monthly will carry a detailed artical in its next issue on the current effort and proposals to establish by election a grand council for Afghanistan.
 14
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
»
                 Historical Review of Moscow's
                  System of Reserve Puppets in Afghanistan
                               By Surgul Speen
           Soviet influence in Afghanistan has been maintained and protected by a systematic infiltration and control of not only the Communist political groups buJt also the national and aristocratic groups. It is evident that over the past four decades, leaders were chosen in every group while others were kept in reserve for rotation into leadership at a later date. These puppet leaders and - reserves served to protect Moscow’s interests in Afghanistan no matter which group was rising or which.group was falling.
           In 1953, Daoud Khan, the cousin of the then King Zahir Shah, became Prime Minister of Afghanistan and the well-woven net of Soviet influence and activity was officially established when military and development accords were signed with the Kremlin. As Soviet influence increased in Afghanistan, the intellectuals, dazed by the Communist propaganda, never once voiced the opinion that close relations with such a greedy expansionist as the Soviet Union might be harmful for the freedom
    and self-determination of Afghanistan. Communist promises of "food, clothing, and shelter for all" sounded good to the idealists, and they were blind to the actual experiences in Communist countries where only the elite few experienced material benefits while the rest who demanded their rights were offered bullets for food, a burial shroud for clothing, and the grave or prison for shelter. Throughout the decade from 1953 to 1963, the Soviets wooed both Zahir Shah and Daoud Khan and assured both of them support even when the prime ministership was passed out of the royal family in 1963. Now Zahir Shah was the puppet leader while Daoud was the reserve, but roles would reverse later on.
           From 1963 to 1973 was the era of the development of political parties, and the Soviets lost no time in ensuring their political goals in Afghanistan. In January 1965 Taraki established the People's Democratic Party of
 Afghanistan, also called Khalq (the People). In 1967, Karmal split off with a faction called the Parcham (the Flag). Both factions recruited civilian and military government employees, were encouraged by the Soviets, and not opposed by the then King Zahir Shah. The idea of two Communist parties fit well into the Soviet design of having puppet leaders and puppet reserves. That each faction worked in a different political area also served the Soviet purposes. The Parcham worked in the cities and among the upper class while the Khalq worked in the countryside.
       Other political parties at time were also infiltrated by the Communists. The Afghan Mellat, later renamed the Afghan Social Democratic Party, advocated a greater Pushtoonistan and opposed all Western influences, leaving the door open for Soviet activity. They supported Daoud’s coup d'etat in 1973 and each succeeding coup, as did two other parties Shu’la-yi-Jawed and Setem-i-Milli, both ultra-left splinters from the Parcham faction of the PDPA. Their claims of Maoism did not hide their sympathy with Marxist-Leninist views and, during the era of Jihad against the Soviets, these two groups proved to be the Khad's best agents and terrorists inside and outside of Afghanistan.
       The coup of 1973 put the reserve puppet Daoud Khan back into power with the support of the top brass of the Afghan army and its brigades who not only showed no loyalty to Zahir Shah but also no understanding of their duty to protect Afghanistan from the systematic and gradual invasion of the Russians. Zahir Shah was out of Afghanistan during the coup and remained in Rome as a reserve puppet in case he would be needed in the future. Another royal cousin and Zahir's son-in-law Major General Abdul Wali was imprisoned by Daoud for two years but then acquitted of alleged crimes and deported to Rome. Abdul Wali knew the value of Soviet military aid as
 he had been commander of the Central Forces from Kabul to Pakistan. If Zahir Shah is too weak or sick to play his role, this royal reserve puppet will be ready.
       The Soviets continued to use the recurrent dissatisfaction with the slowness of reforms to fuel each coup and governmental change, pushing the country closer and closer to an outspoken Communist regime espousing Marxist-Leninist philosophy. In 1978, the same army officers who put Daoud in as President, now members of the PDPA, staged the coup that put in Taraki and Amin, the first true Communist puppet leaders. Karmal was rotated into reserve as an ambassador to Czechoslovakia.
       Dissatisfaction with reforms grew worse instead of better. The Soviets helped the Khalqis with all available means to fight against a nation which was rejecting Marxism, but the Khalqis failed to gain what the Soviets wanted. After 18 months of continuous atrocities, massacres, and imprisonment of innocent Afghans, they could not get rid of the Muslim movement against the atheist Communist ideology. When the Soviets realized that their puppets were about to be wiped out, despite their military assistance and advisers, they themselves marched into Afghanistan.
       The Soviets brought with them their reserve puppet, Babrak Karmal, head of the Parcham faction, and installed him in Kabul while they announced him as President of Afghanistan from Radio Riga and Tashkent. Amin was assassinated and his gang numbering about 150 top men were sent to jail. They were kept in prison because that was the safest place, as it would have been dangerous for them to room around freely. They were not tried for their crimes and were released in early 1987. They were the reserve forces assigned to help Najib in the "new" PDPA government. When Najib took over, Karmal was flown off the scene in a Soviet plane to wait for his new role as puppet in reserve.
       Zahir Shah, who has been living for the last 17 years "deprived" of his kingdom, is one of the reserve puppets of the Kremlin. In many ways he is very different from the other stooges. For instance, because of Daoud, Taraki, Amin, Karmal, and Najib, Moscow was forced to bear a great deal of human
                                                                (continued on page 31 )
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
15
called out, "Allahu-Akbar" while raising break out of the shackles of slavery and
their hands to indicate their unanimous  throw Communism into the dustbin of
approval                              history.

L IMWI
                         Huge Crowd Responds to Hekmatyar on December 27th, 1989.
 On the tenth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Eng. G. Hekmatyar, Leader of the Hezbi-lslami of Afghanistan, spoke to about 150,000 Afghan refugees gathered in a field near Peshawar and elaborated on the victories of the Afghan Mujahideen since the Soviet invasion and on the continuing Jihad. The following are quotations excerpted from his discourse:
       "Afghanistan was not to be overrun like Czechoslovakia; this has been proved to the Soviets by the great Afghan Mujahideen. They will also be able to show the USA that Afghanistan is not like Panama.
       "The war won by the great victorious Afghan Mujahideen had wbeen shown to be a monumental history-making war. Through their strong faith, their determination, and their physical endurance, the Mujahideen have solved the historical problem for themselves and for other subjugated nations - how to obtain independence from imperialism. Other nations will continue to find independence due to the struggle and victory of the Afghan Mujahideen.
       "It is amazing that Moscow approves movements in Eastern Europe that are aimed at liberating people from the domination of the Communist parties, but in our country the Soviets are continuing their support to a regime that has been put in power by a foreign force and whose hands are stained by the blood of 1.5 million Afghans.
       "Those who have made themselves ready to defend Islam, have picked up weapons, started Jihad, and have sacrificed, they will not be satisfied with just a military victory. After extricating the Soviets and their puppets, they will seek to put in place an Islamic system which will guarantee political stability, peace, and justice in the region. This system will prevent transgressions and will protect the oppressed.
10th Anniversary of Soviet invasion
Resolutions of the Hezb-i-lslami
    Ten years ago on this day the sixth of Jeddy (the 27th of December 1979) seventeen divisions of well-equipped Soviet forces invaded
       This great divine Movement will continue its travel toward its fulfilment until an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan and meddlesome foreign hands are cut off.
       Hezb-i-lslami of Afghanistan once again strongly condemns the armed intervention of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan and their instalment of a puppet regime in Kabul ai.d emphasizes the following points for the attainment of our final goals:
       "With the consent of the people, the reins of the nation will be given to pious individuals so that henceforth in our nation no specific family will rule and no one will gain power via coup
 uphold freedom and justice for the people.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                "With the consent of the people, and according to Islamic discipline,
power will be transferred to such a person who has the ability to rule according to the Islamic system. We will have a new political and social system, the new model which other oppressed countries are awaiting. This is a very important responsibility of ours."
     At the end of his speech on the anniversary of the “Black Day” of the Soviet invasion, Eng. G. Hekmatyar asked the audience to show their approval of the following resolution of the party: “We will continue our Jihad until an elected Islamic government is established in Afghanistan”. The audience immediately responded with “Allahu-Akbar” and about 150,000 hands were raised in approval. •
       Again, Hekmatyar presented a resolution: "We will confront any government that is imposed on our nation from abroad just like we confronted Najib, Karmal, Amin and Taraki." Again, the mammoth audience
Afghanistan in a bid to prevent the collapse of the Soviet-installed regime in Kabul and to quell the nationwide Islamic uprising in a "few months".
       However, it was only after nine years of relentless war which resulted in the martyrdom of one and a half million of our compatriots and the forced emigration of five million others that" the Soviets realized they were bogged down in a useless war. The Soviets withdrew their forces from Afghanistan when they found out that perpetuating the war would not achieve their goals and that continued occupation was increasingly counterproductive.
      The faithful Mujahideen not only repelled Soviet aggression in Afghanistan but triggered the most ;-monumental changes of contemporary times. The Mujahideen changed the course of history by inspiring the subjugated nations of the world to
1. Our Jihad will continue until complete independence and the establishment of an elected Islamic government.
2. No other than an elected Islamic government will be able to put an end to war and establish durable peace and security in our country.
3. All Islamic and Mujahid forces who have sincerely fought for liberation of our country from the claws of the Soviets must join hands and together foil all international conspiracies which are aimed at imposition of an un-Islamic government, dismemberment of our country, and creation of discord Sind rifts among the ranks of the Mujahideen.
4. We approve of the cooperation of the Afghan military with the Mujahideen in toppling the regime in Kabul and assure the military officers that their attempts in this direction will
d’etat, nor will anyone be imposed on our nation by international conspiracies. These past bloody events will not be repeated. We will have a strong Islamic nation which has the ability to defend itself.
       "The fires of war are necessary for the financial growth of the West; they must incite the Asian and African countries to fight among themselves so that there will be a market for the sale of weapons. The day when wars in Asian and African countries stop and the sale of weapons ceases, the decline of the Western powers will begin, and they will face economic stagnation.
       "Islam will fill the gap created by the failure of the Eastern and Western social systems. Just as the faithful Afghan nation has opened the way to freedom from oppression, similarly we must show the oppressed and confused nations that it is an Islamic socio-political system which can


 16
 have the full support of the Mujahideen if they establish a revolutionary council comprised of non-PDPA officers and the Mujahideen commanders around Kabul for the administration of the regime-controlled areas, and then hold elections within six months for the establishment of an elected Islamic government.
 5.     We avoid attacking cities in order to prevent harm and injury to the life and property of innocent civilians. We do not approve of the missile attacks on cities. We have chosen the following methods for the coilapse of the Kabul regime: laying siege around cities, cutting off supply routes of the enemy, and intensification of attacks just on military installations. We allow the Afghan military the opportunity of cooperation with the Mujahideen in toppling the agent regime.
 6.     Hitherto, we were not for the demonstration of the residents of cities against the regime fearing a callous and ruthless backlash of the regime forces against the civilians. However, now we would like the Muslim dwellers of the cities to raise slogans of "Allahu-Akbar" from their rooftops for half an hour each evening after prayers so that the regime can be reminded of the indignation of the populace against her illegal rule.
 7 If the supporters of the regime withdraw their support immediately, repent their past, and renounce their enmity with their nation and Islam, they will enjoy the benefits of general amnesty declared already, and their cooperation with the Mujahideen in toppling the regime will be appreciated.
 8.     The cessation of hostilities can only be guaranteed and the issue solved peacefully when foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan is stopped, delivery of arms to Afghanistan is avoided, the Najib regime is replaced by an interim government acceptable to the Mujahideen, elections are held within six months, and power is transferred to the elected government.
 9.     We believe cessation of the delivery of arms to the crumbling Kabul regime will seal' the fall oL this repugnant regime. That is why we insist that all foreign interference should be halted and all arms supplies into
                                                                                                                                     (continued on page 31 )
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
17
Formation of the Shoora and the IIGA
      As the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan, about 500 representatives of the Mujahideen from all parts of the country and from all walks of life came to the Islamabad Haji Camp and Conference Center to form a Shoora Council with the purpose of
 Afghanistan (IIGA) was elected by the Shoora Council.
 The OIC Chair
      March 8 to March 22, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar as the new foreign minister of the IIGA led a delegation to the meeting of foreign ministers of the Organization of Islamic
                                                                                                                                           greeting the Foreign Minister of the IIGA Eng.
                                                                                                                                                                        G. Hekmatyar.
A view of the leader of various political parties during the meeting of consultative council.
electing a united government of Afghanistan.
      Meeting from February 10 to 24, the Shoora Council included clerics, commanders, chiefs, professors, engineers, judges, educated and illiterate, urban and rural, Sunni and Shia, representatives from every province and every major city. Refugees came from many countries abroad and commanders came from the Jihad front. The votes were cast by secret ballot without threat of violence and the outcome was accepted by all participating in the Shoora and those they represented.
      On February 23, 1989, the Islamic Interim Government of
Conferences in Riyadh. The Muslim countries, having been impressed by the courage and sacrifices of the Mujahideen in the battlefield for many years and then by the political wisdom they demonstrated in forming a Shoora-based government, bestowed upon the IIGA the vacant Afghan seat. The granting of the seat to IIGA, in effect, was a collective recognition of the IIGA by the 45 member OIC countries. In addition three countries, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Bahrain, individually declared their recognition.
The Far East Trip
                                                                                         Realizing that further recognition of the IIGA would speed up the process
of peace in Afghanistan, the Foreign Ministry of the IIGA decided to undertake a series of trips and activities toward this end. a delegation led by
Engineer Hekmatyar, Foreign Minister of the IIGA, visited Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Brunai, the Peoples' Republic of China, and Australia from April 8 to April 21. Malaysia recognized the IIGA soon after their visit.
Summer Jihad
      During the spring and summer months Eng. G. Hekmatyar made several tours of the Jihad fronts inside Afghanistan. He was monitored so closely by the PDPA that, on his tour to
18
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
       The thaw in relations between Iran and the Soviet Union began even before the June 4 death of Imam Khomeini, the Iranian revolutionary Muslim leader of great piety and power who was mourned throughout- the Muslim world. Before his death, Imam Khomeini had sent a letter to Soviet President Gorbachev to tell him of the superiority of a Muslim way of life.
 Parwan, his speeches were recorded for the puppet leader Najib who responded to Hekmatyar on Kabul Radio. On another tout, this time in Nangrahar. Hekmatyar narrowly escaped injury in a bomb attack of a Mujahideen base. Throughout the summer, the Kabul regime consistently denied that Hekmatyar was inside Afghanistan, probably fearing that the Kabulis may panic if knew a Mujahideen leader was nearby.
 Iran Disappoints Mujahideen
      Iran, a former valuable ally to the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, normalized relations with the Soviet Union. From the point of view of the Afghans, normalizing relations with the Soviets, at a time when the Soviets themselves were still firing SCUDS to destroy Afghan villages and still sending $300 million worth of monthly military aid to their puppet to terrorize, maim, and kill the Afghan people, was very disappointing.
 Although Gorbachev did not accept Islam, he took this as a signal that Iran may be able to help him with the Muslim revolts in southern USSR and the Afghan War.
      Iran had been weakened militarily and economically by their war with Iraq and felt forced to seek assistance from their erstwhile enemies for their reconstruction. Even after the ceasefire with Iraq, the West did not follow through with their promises of ifrvestrrvent aid to Iran, so the then Majlis Speaker Rafsanjani felt forced to turn to Soviet President Gorbachev, and he concluded agreements by the end of June on economic and industrial cooperation worth more than six billion dollars. In return. Soviet President Gorbachev received promises of three billion cubic meters of Iranian natural gas and, even more importantly, promises of Iranian "non-interference".
      While the Mujahideen understood what difficult decisions the government had to make, they felt betrayed by their brothers in Iran whose policy was in sharp contrast to that of
 another Afghan neighbour, the Chinese, who steadfastly refused to normalize relations with the Soviets until the Afghan conflict was resolved. That Iran seemed to be unable to help negotiate a settlement of the complaints of the Iran-based Mujahideen against the I IGA was another sore point.
 Hezb-i-lslami suspends its membership in the liGA
      In Peshawar, the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan (IIGA) was busily establishing ministries and uniting the programs of the seven parties into the departments of the IIGA. Some ministries were to be established in Kunar and Paktia. Unfortunately, the IIGA did not fulfil its promise in six months to hold elections among the Afghans to choose a more representative assembly which would provide a constitution and a government acceptable to all Afghans. For this reason, on August 24, 1989, the Hezb-i-lslami suspended its activities as part of the IIGA until elections would be held. The purpose of the suspension was to force the IIGA to seriously consider its commitment to hold elections and to put top priority to this project. *
      Hekmatyar believes that elections will end the bickering about representation of the Iran-based Mujahideen, will unite the support of the people of Afghanistan, and will provide the world-wide credibility of the government which has so far been lacking.
 A Leader Martyred
      On November 24, 1989, Sheikh Abdullah Azzam was martyred along with two of his sons when his car was bombed on a main road in Peshawar. The loss of this very highly respected leader who had committed his life to the Afghan Jihad was a shock to everyone who knew him. An example of his commitment occurred the night before his death. In order to settle some grievances between the Jamiat Islami and the Hezbi Islami parties, he had investigated the problem and formed a just solution. He had the signature of one leader and late at night went to seek the signature of the other. When asked why he came so late at night, he said that decisions to bring good to
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
19
society should not be delayed. Indeed, every day is in the hand of Allah, and Sheikh Abdullah Azzam understood this very well. After his death, a meeting between Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Rabbani was held to formalize their agreement to cooperate in the solution of this problem and for future cooperation.
       About 542,000 family ration card holders have received 15 kilograms wheat per month per person plus edible oil, milk powder, sugar, tea and kerosene oil. Unfortunately, this year, shortage of funds forced the WFP to remove sugar and tea from the food list and make big cuts in edible oil and milk powder.
the already depleted forests around the camps.
      For those refugees seeking to supplement their own rations, wages have remained virtually stagnant over the last eight years while inflation has risen by at least 10 per cent annually.
(end of “News Review of 1989”)
 Refugee Rations Dwindling
      Pakistan has expressed concern over declining international aid for Afghan refugees and called upon the world community to assist it in supplementing refugee's food requirements.
      In an interview with the German Press Agency, Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Taj said that 70,000 more refugees have entered Pakistan from the time of the February Soviet troop withdrawal up until October 1989, a rate of about 7000 per month. Mr. Taj is Pakistan's Chief Commissioner for Afghan Refugees whose office, together with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, coordinates all refugee-related operations in Pakistan. He said that all together Pakistan is actually playing host to more than four million refugees, including about 3.2 million Afghans registered in camps, about
 450.000  unregistered and about
 700.000 births among the refugees since their arrival in Pakistan.
      The cost of taking care of the refugees is almost 175 million US dollars per year, shared by UNHCR, Pakistan, donor countries and various international welfare agencies. However, the aid has been declining since 1987 and shortfalls in food supplies by the World Food Programme (WFP), the U.N. agency channelling international assistance to refugee operations have also been frequent.
      The shortfall in WFP wheat supplies was 400,000 tons in 1988 and
 200.000 tons so far in 1989, said Mr. Taj, adding that Pakistan has to bear the burden of these shortfalls and has so far released more than 600,000 tons of wheat for the refugees.
       Mr. Taj further said that, against a pledge of 42 million dollars for 1989, the UNHCR has so far provided only 31 million dollars. Now, kerosene oil, the major source of heating, cooling and lighting in most of the camps, is also being eliminated from the rations. This not only will make life difficult for the refugees during the winter months, but also may force them to resort to cutting
Bread is the staple for most refugees.
Recently arrived refugees with makeshift shelter.
20
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
The Situation In Kabul Today
                                         By M Qureshi
       Recently in Peshawar there have been many reports about the situation inside Kabul. One type oi report is made by journalists who have been invited by the puppet government of Afghanistan. Another type of report is brought by the refugees who are fleeing from Afghanistan or the occasional pilot who defects with his plane or helicopter.
       The following is a situation report on Kabul gleaned from the local Peshawar newspapers and the refugee contacts available.
 Khad police officers in the Khad Brigade and also the Sarandoy Combat Force. The latter is a fanatical Communist unit from the Interior Ministry who wear brown shirts and have no combat experience.
       This year over 20 Afghan general have been killed in Mujahideen attacks or executed in government purges, thus depleting the
 army high command. Others have defected, like General Dost Mohammad of Zaranj and Maulvi Mohammad Abrah
 out of reach for the poor. According to the latest reports from refugees, lamb is 1000 Af/kg, rice is 2300 Af/7kg, wheat is 1200 Af/7kg and sugar is 400 Af/kg.
       While the government banks still exchange Afghanis at a 30-year-old rate of 55 Afs per US dollar for foreign diplomats, other banks are trading 400 Afs/$ and the rate in the Kabul bazaar is reported as 525 Afs/$. In Peshawar it is about 880 Afs/$. A Kabul Finance Ministry official is reported to have said in December 1989 that "the bazaar has gone quite mad and if it continues, the Afghani currency will be nothing but shreds of paper".
       A refugee who arrived last month said that Kabul City has no electricity, so many of the people are using kerosene or wood for cooking and heating. Fuel is in short supply and prohibitively expensive. Wood is 70 Af/kg and kerosene is 1000 Af/5L while
children coming from Afghanistan to the refugee camps
 Military
       Just like Genghis Khan in days of old left 1000 men to guard his prize of Afghanistan, so also the Soviets have reportedly left 1000 commandos to protect Kabul. This is in additional to the 300 military advisors and the missile crews in charge of the Scuds, to say nothing of the pilots living in the Soviet Embassy or flying across the border to give protection to their convoys.
       The Afghans protecting Kabul are organized into three paramilitary forces. The Special Guard is a unit of
 10,000 veterans, including some former
 of Ghor who took thdir men and material over to the resistance side with them. Major General Muhammad Faruq Zarif, commander of puppet Najib’s personal security unit, defected to Pakistan in August. He said the spirit was low in the secret police as well as the army and that Najib no longer trusted the military except for his own Special Guard of party fanatics. In December, 127 Khalqi soldiers and officers were arrested, including 11 generals, ostensibly for plotting a coup.
 Economics
      The price of food in Kabul has doubled since October putting supplies
 gasoline is 2000 Af/5L. Every day thousands of people stand in line at gas stations,, many of them are children nearly frozen to death, and often they would have to wait until midnight, or fuel would not be available at all.
       A U.N. report told the story of one woman who was distrought after rece ving a six pound bag of flour through a United Nations program. She said she didnl know how she'd be able to cook it!
       Of course, those who have connections with the Communist government are supplied with food and necessities first. There are reports that
Mujahideen Monthiy/January 1990
21
 the Communists are printing extra currency to bribe their supporters, thus creating even more inflationary pressure. Officially, late in December, an economic crackdown was announced in Kabul to stem imports and encourage exports.
 Education
       Kabul University has less than 4000 students and the curriculum is in disarray. Either the books are the same as used 10 years ago or they are imported, from the Soviet Union, causing abrupt changes in the teaching theory.
       Sixty professors fled this year, and those remaining are under extreme pressure to promote only the students of the Communist party, instead of qualifying all students on the basis of examinations. Seventy per cent of the students are women because the men have been recruited or fled.
       One refugee from Kabul claims that in the elementary schools students who finish grade eight are requested by the government to teach classes from first grade up to fourth grade. It is also alleged that dancing and Communist ideology are taught at a very young age and in preference to other subjects. For this reason and due to sporadic bombardments of the streets and schools, many parents keep their children at home.
 Health care
       Infant mortality rate has not improved with the Communist regime, and the incidence of malaria has increased. The October UNICEF survey concluded that 40% of children examined in Kabul suffered from "mild to moderate" malnutrition. The only medicine available in the pharmacies is made in the Soviet Union or Eastern bloc countries, and the doctors have not been trained in the proper use of these drugs.
       Recent refugee arrivals have mourned the poor state of the hospitals which lack medicine and supplies. One nurse from a children’s hospital in Kabul explained that there were no medicines, no syringes, no nasogastric tubes, and not even emergency supplies. This nurse related the following sorrowful tale.
       "One night a man brought his sick son to the hospital. The father
 looked very tired because he had come all the way from Paghman. Although the boy was desperately ill and required an intravenous line and medication immediately, we had no supplies in the hospital, and the doctor was forced to write a prescription and give it to the father to take to the bazaar. The father was gone for hours and, because of the seriousness of the boy's illness, we borrowed the most necessary supplies with some difficulty from another patient. We began to wonder what kind of a man he was to desert his desperately sick son in this way.
       "When morning came an old
 man entered the hospital to find the boy. Instead of bringing medicine for the boy, he began to remove his precious, life-saving intravenous line. We immediately inquired on what authority he was acting. The old man replied that as a poor uncle of the boy he was unable to leave the boy in the hospital. When the boy's father had gone to the drug store, a soldier had shot him and killed him because he was q Muslim. Now there was no one to take care of his wife and this sick son."
 Escape
      To go to Pakistan now takes at least 20 days due to fighting on all the major highways. There is oftetf little food and poor shelter along the way. Still many flee.
Safety
      Police raids of suspected supporters of the Mujahideen arp regular. The prisons are still full of innocent people who are physically and mentally tortured to obtain "confessions" and deprived of trial.
children, mother: young and old
                      daily flee Afghanistan
  for refugee Camps in
Pakistan.
22
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 Social Services of the Hezb-i- Islami
       The Social Welfare Committee of the Hezb-i-lsiami is divided into five directorates to help the needy in the camps and inside Afghanistan.
       First is the General Directorate of Heirs of Martyrs'which in June this year distributed more than 20 million rupees
in the seventh round of periodic assistance provided three times a year to families of martyrs inside Afghanistan and in the camps. A total of
50,000   families of the Shaheed have been helped through these programs: monthly assistance is distributed to 1526 families, periodic assistance to 38,931 families, and bonus aid to 9533 families.
       The Directorate of Orphanages runs three orphanages in Pakistan and is hoping to set up six more in Afghanistan. In Pakistan there are 2500 orphan students and 1300 boarding orphans.
Injured mujahid learning to walk again.
      The Directorate of the Handicapped gives about 700,000 rupees monthly to about 2500 handicapped, distributed on the basis of their handicap and their need. In addition, the Handicapped Rehabilitation Center provides treatment, medicine, artificial limbs, and courses in Islamic studies and literacy. Wheelchairs, including specially-designed and motorized types, are also available on a limited basis through this program.
      The Directorate of Released Prisoners gives monthly assistance to 2000 prisoners in jails in Afghanistan and 700 families of prisoners. When released, the prisoners are given a small amount of cash to help them until they find lodging and work. If they are single, they are accommodated in special lodging where they can stay until they find work. Courses are provided at the center and they are given priority for employment in the different departments of the Social Welfare Committee, provided they are qualified and pass the selection test.
       Every donation to the Social Welfare Committee is recorded and every expenditure is monitored. Further information can be obtained by writing to P.O. Box 397, Peshawar, Pakistan.
Eng.G.Hekmatyar visiting orphans inside
Afghanistan
 Eng. G. hekmatyar visiting a sick child.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
23
The opening of
Jihad
University
     Hezbi-lslami Afghanistan has recently established a Jihad University here in Peshawar. The University is comprised of five colleges of which the Education and Medical Colleges have been put into operation in the current year.
The Medical College of Jihad University:
     The Medical College (or Faculty) of Jihad University opened in Hayatabad, Peshawar, on September 2, 1989, with the objective of providing an opportunity to those Muslims and Mujahid Afghan students who have been deprived of the rights of higher studies due to the coming into power of the Russian-installed regime and the Russian invasion. The graduates are expected to fill the vacancies of the large number of medical doctors who have been martyred or forced to seek refugee in other countries. They will serve as doctors in hospitals, clinics, and medical institutions in their own provinces. Some may go abroad so they can return as specialists or professors.
     It was expected that Kabul University medical students would be able to continue the seven-year course that they had started before leaving Afghanistan. The first four classes were opened with the same subjects and schedule as in Kabul and similarly called PCB, First Year, Second Year, and Third Year. An admissions test was required and a total of 300 students were given admission. Ninety-five per cent of the students have room and board at the college, and 200 rupees pocket money is paid in addition.
     Most of the professors were professors, associate professors, or lecturers at Kabul or Nangrahar Universities and have established their own curriculum based on the materials available to them,incorporating their Afghan university materials and their experiences on the Jihad front. Most of them teach in Pushto, similar to the Nangrahar Medical School in Afghanistan.
      The College so far has four buildings with a total of 30 rooms where the "live in" students, administrative and academic offices, labs and departments are accommodated. In addition to this, three temporary iron sheet classrooms and a dining room have been erected in the yards of two buildings. The practical or clinical work is centered around two medical and surgical hospitals in Shamshatu, Nasratmina, each with an 80-bed capacity.
      We are happy to report the opening of the Colleges of Medicine
 and Education at the new Jihad University in Peshawar to begin to replace the expert manpower lost during the past ten years of Jihad and emigration.
 Loya Jirga No Substitute for Elections
      For peace in Afghanistan there must be a government that has the "consent of the governed". It is obvious that every person with a gun must consent to the government in order to stop the fighting. The government must somehow give representation or voice to everyone, yet come up with one leader, and at the same time protect the rights of the minorities.
      A Loya Jirga traditionally consists of tribal chiefs or other influential persons chosen by the king or party in power. A Loya Jirga held in Kabul constituted of loyal PDPA members chosen by Najib does not provide a mechanism of obtaining the consent of the governed in Afghanistan.
      The h|ezb-i-lslami supports popular election of a Shura Council which would then choose a government and formulate a constitution. In August 1989 Eng. G. Hekmatyar, chief of the Hezb-i-lslami, announced suspension of the participation of his party in the IIGA until elections were held. He said that the suspension is to persuade our brother^ in the IIGA to respect their previous promises and agreements. All have previously accepted that it is only by elections and the establishment of a council repjesenting the whole nation that outside interference can be restrained.
      We must prevent a situation
 where any country could take this or that person or organization into its hand and portray them as representatives of our nation and then make its recognition conditional on the giving of sensitive posts to these persons of its heart's desire. Furthermore, it is only, through elections that we can restrain internal clashes and bestow strength upon the government. At the same time, we shall not withhold any sacrifices in the way of safeguarding unity among the Mujahideen.
       From the first days of the IIGA, Eng. Hekmatyar has been seriously committed to the plan for elections. On his trip to the Far East he said, "we have named our government interim to emphasize our decision to hold elections within four months to establish a council which will draft and approve a constitution for the country.
 Former Minister Defects.
       A former Afghan diplomat Pacha Gul Wafadar who served as Minister both in the late President Sardar Daoud's Cabinet and in Prime Minister Dr. Hassan Sharq's Cabinet has defected to the Hezbi-lslami. Under Daoud he was also assigned at different times as Ambassador to Bulgaria and to Libya, and he became Ambassador to india for the PDPA. After the Soviet invasion in 1979, he was summoned back to Kabul and started a private business. When a bomb exploded in his store, killing a Soviet, he was put in prison for a year and a half. Wafadar became a Minister for Civil Aviation last year in Dr. Hassan Sharq’s Cabinet when non-PDPA people were inducted into the Government. He was, however, dropped from the Cabinet along with Dr. Sharq eight months later when puppet Najib declared an "emergency" in Afghanistan. Hekmatyar commended him for his courage in announcing his defection, especially since he had left some of his family behind.
24
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
Interview With an Ex-Minister
—-------------------------*-
 By Attaul Haq & Zalmay Tookhi
       Mr. Pacha Gul Wafadar, an ex-Civil Aviation Minister of the Hasan Sharq cabinet of the Najib regime, in an interview with The Mujahideen Monthly stated that the Najib government is demoralized and besieged. The Afghan people are facing great trouble and potential famine due to a drought situation in the government-controlled areas. Both Najib and the Soviet Union know that sooner or later the PD PA Government will be toppled. Following is the text of his interview:-
 Q. Would you please tell us about your educational life and political affiliation at that time?
 A. I received my primary education in a military school in Kabul; then I visited Russia to get a higher education where I stayed for six years in the Soviet cities of Kiev and Leningrad. After getting training in wireless mechanics, I came back to my country, joined the Air Force, and served for a period of five years. In the Daoud regime, I was appointed as Minister of Frontier Affairs.
       In my educational years, I had no political affiliation because in those days the minds of our people were not so politicized.
 Q. Why do you believe the Soviets invaded Afghanistan?
 A. Soviet intervention was a flagrant infringement of international regulations, but was a part of their long term planning. During my stay in Russia, I witnessed such maps in which Afghanistan was indicated as a part of Socialist Russia. In fact, the Soviets wanted to proceed towards the Indian Ocean but their plan was blocked by the Afghan Jihad.
 Q. When did you decide 1c stand with the Mujahideen?
 A. When the Red Army invaded Afghanistan, I was Afghan Ambassador to India but I happened to be in Kabul at the time. Karmal announced that the only true Afghans were pro-Soviet
Socialists. The Afghan people demonstrated against the foreign intervention. The streets of Kabul were stained with the blood of innocent people. There were two options for me at that time; either to support Karmal or to stand with the freedom fighters. I decided to oppose the Karmal regime, joined hands with the Mujahideen and attached myself to the Hezbi-lslami of Afghanistan, led by Eng. Hekmatyar. I performed many things for the sake of Islam and my country, and I pray to God Almighty to grant me further opportunities in this field.
Q. How did you perform your double duties as a minister and as a supporter of Hezbi-lslami?
A. 'When I was offered a ministry in the PDPA government I consulted Eng. Hekmatyar. He directed me to accept the offer, but the government never knew about my relation with the Hezb.
  Former Minister Mr. Pacha Gul Wafadar
  Q. What was the attitude of the Russians with the Afghan officials?
  A. They treated the Afghan officials like slaves. A majority of Afghan officials wanted to be closer to their Russian masters, therefore they obeyed every order without any hesitation, and still a large number of them are performing the same role.
  Q. Why was Hassan Sharq withdrawn from his post as Prime Minister?
  A. He was appointed by the Soviets to create moderate relations between the government and the Mujahideen. However, because he was a radical Communist and belonged to WAD (formerly KHAD), he supported the Khalq party and failed in his mission. For this reason, he eventually was removed from his office.
  Q. Please throw some light upon the activities of WAD and the KGB?
  A. WAD is a branch of the KGB. Twice they planted bombs for my assassination, but I escaped. All sabotage activities in Pakistan are done by the KGB and WAD. Socialist countries are basically controlled by the KGB.
  Q. Can you relate some unforgettable events of the period when you were in the government?
  A. One of my pleasant memories is when I heard Daoud’s announcement about democracy in Afghanistan Another astonishing memory of a different type is when I first found out from the news on TV that I was no longer a minister.
  Q. How long can the Najib Government stand?
  A. It will collapse as soon as the Mujahideen forces unite, because the masses are disappointed in Communism. Instead of war, national unity is essential now.
  Q. A coup is a short cut way to bring change; is a coup possible in Afghanistan?
  A. Every moment a coup is possible in Afghanistan! A coup is a short cut, but it is very dangerous, too. The only coup that will prove fruitful is the one in which the Mujahideen unitedly participate.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
25
    Commander Sayed Jamal Executed
            Without Fair Trial
       Throughout the Afghan Jihad, the Kabul regime has utilized proxies, bribes, and weapons to sow the seeds of enmity between Mujahideen commanders. As a consequence, local clashes between commanders of various parties unfortunately occur from time to time. The outside world, unaware of such complicated and treacherous plots, often sees such local clashes as if they had occurred between parties on the national level.
       One example has been clash between Ahmed Shah Masoud, a commander of the Jamiat-i-lslami, and Sayed Jamal of the Hezb-i-lslami. Over the past several years conflicts have arisen between , these two commanders, spurred by Communist plots and double-dealing, and Mujahideen from both sides have lost their lives. The incident in Takhar Province, which was one of a chain of local incidences occurring between these two commanders, was highly publicized world-wide as a serious rift in Mujahideen unity. An objective account has yet to be confirmed, but one version is that on July 9, 1989, four commanders and five Mujahideen of the Jamiat-i-lslami died at the hand of men from Sayed Jamal's front who believed that the Commanders were plotting an attack on the Hezbi front. Using bribes, .and in collusion with Najib’s local militia, Masoud captured Jamal and some associates in August. Following the Takhar incident, the chief of the Hezb-i-lslami, Mr. Hekmatyar asked for a group of impartial persons to investigate the incident and to arrive at a verdict which should be binding to both parties. A committee made up of
 internationally renowned Muslim scholars was appointed and made their investigation. However, before the committee could deliberate and announce its verdict, Masoud, who had Sayed Jamal in his custody, executed him on December 16, 1989. To protest this execution without a legitimate trial, Eng. G. Hekmatyar called a press conference on January 1, 1990.
       At the conference, Eng. G. Hekmatyar, clarified that nine
Mujahideen of the Jamiat were killed at Farkhar in Takhar Province this past summer, although the Kabul regime media and anti-Mujahideen foreign press were propagating that 30 - 38 people were killed. He reiterated his demand for the constitution of an independent tribunal or impartial Shariat Court comprising all the seven Mujahideen groups to investigate the Takhar incident as well as the hanging to death unilaterally of four Hezb people by a Jamiat commander and to punish the responsible persons according to Islamic jurisprudence.
       He said that both Hezb and Jamiat had reached a written agreement for solving their conflicts through a tribunal but later the Jamiat chief in an interview said that the
Takhar incident was not included in the agreement. He categorically said that his party did not believe in the politics of revenge and that issues that occurred between his party and Jamiat should be solved through negotiations so that their common enemy should not take advantage of the situation. He said that a letter had been written by him to Jamiat-i-lslami Chief Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani in this regard but no reply had been received so far.
        Eng. G. Hekmatyar said that to avoid any untoward incident he was asking the Mujahideen of the Jamiat-i-lslami not to use the areas under the command of the Hezb-i-lslami until the decision of the court regarding the Takhar incident.
26
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
                                      Who inspired changes in Eastern Europe?
    i---------------
                                             By Dr. S.K. Raihan
       Do great leaders make history? or do the events of history force inevitable decisions that make leaders seem great? This is a question historians have asked about Churchill, Roosevelt, Kennedy, and Kruschev. It is the question that is now and will be asked about Gorbachev. Did Gorbachev invent perestroika and glasnost or was it forced upon him by the times, most notably by the Afghan Jihad? The evidence favors the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, rather than any other personality or country, as the catalyst of the chain-breaking reaction spreading over Eastern Europe.
       The invasion of Afghanistan was a tremendous blow to the reputation of the Soviet Union as a champion of Third World rights. Relations became strained with China and with Muslim countries in Asia and Africa as well as with the West. When the Mujahideen fought them on every front, how could the Soviets continue to say they were invited into Afghanistan?
       The loss of Soviet boys in Afghanistan caused popular unrest at home. First the sons of the Central Asian republics were sent to blend in with the Afghan communists, but they felt sympathy with their Muslim and ethnic brothers. Then the sons of the Russian republics were sent to fight the imperialists, but they learned that there were no other imperialists in Afghanistan than the Russians themselves. Some sons never returned, some came back demoralized, and some returned addicted to drugs. The morale of the Soviet people was seriously deteriorating. How long could they believe the propaganda of their leader when their sons showed them that the Soviet story of Afghanistan was nothing but lies?
       There was also popular unrest because of economic problems. Production of food and other necessities was not keeping pace with demand, Soviet technology and resources were concentrated on the production of tanks, planes, weapons,
and bombs. Some said Afghanistan was a much needed testing ground, but how much money could be blown up in bombs when the country's economy was floundering? Even today, when the Soviets claim to have withdrawn from Afghanistan, the Moscow News is complaining about their foreign expenditure. In 1989 the Soviets spent 21 times as much money on military and economic aid to foreign countries as compared to their expenditure on health in their own country.
      How could the Soviet leader restore the Soviet reputation in the world, raise popular morale at home, and save the economy? Not by sabre rattling, but by advertising world peace. Not by sending more boys to Afghanistan, but by withdrawing from an "immoral" policy of invasion. Not by alienating the Third World, but by inviting exports of essential commodities such as oil and gas. These were the decisions of Gorbachev whose hand was forced in that direction by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
      Most importantly, the Soviet hold on Eastern European satellite states loosened. Rosenthal said in The New York Times that some Europeans had long ago predicted "that if ever Moscow withdrew the threat of the Red Army to put down the struggle of the captive nations, the satellite regimes would eventually collapse". Where did the Red Army learn the lesson that invasion with tanks cannot suppress a popular revolt? They did not learn it in Armenia, Lithuania, Poland, Czechoslovakia, or Hungary. They learned it in Afghanistan! What was the catalyst which spurred the current freedom movement in Eastern Europe? It was not Bush or Gorbachev or even Lech Walesa. It was the belief that the Red Army would interfere no longer. It was the Soviet defeat by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
      There is euphoria in the East and the West about the new freedoms
 in Eastern European satellites, but there is only grim determination among the refugees of the newest satellite, Afghanistan. Their fathers, brothers, and sons have fought and died for their land and their freedom. To the amazement of the world, the Red Army has pulled out of Afghanistan and the threat of Communist suppression was lifted from the whole world. But no freedom is found in Afghanistan—no free speech, no freedom of religion, no freedom to form non-communist political parties. Three hundred million dollars worth of armaments pour into Kabul every month to terrorize, maim and kill Afghans, to suppress their common goal to make an Islamic state, to keep a puppet regime in power.
       Afghan Mujahideen won freedom from Soviet domination for both the East and the West, for both Muslims and non-Muslims. In spite of this, the Afghan cause has been forgotten in the Western press. Today there are free demonstrations in the streets of Soviet satellites but none in the streets of Kabul. More Soviet-made bombs are dropping on Afghanistan than ever before. More refugees are fleeing to Pakistan, and more scarcity is expected in both urban and rural areas of Afghanistan. This is not how our heroes should be treated. The whole of the freedom-loving world should now stand by the Afghan Mujahideen who are not only the heroes of the Afghan people but of every individual to whom freedom means something.
       Like the little people in the Wizard of Oz who danced in the street and sang, "The wicked witch is dead! The wicked witch is dead", so there is relief and jubilation in the West that Communist suppression seems to have come to an end in Eastern Europe. Let us raise the banner of freedom high-freedom from puppet regimes, freedom to choose one's own government, freedom from invasion by imperialists, freedom to live in peace with one's neighbours!
       Let the heroes who fought for freedom not be forgotten! They are the Mujahideen of Afghanistan. They overcame seemingly insurmountable odds, and the Soviet army withdrew when they had never done so before. Let the world not ignore that the heroes are fighting still! Their cause is our cause, their freedom is our freedom!
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
TF
27
Note From RACA Health Committee
      The health and education of the Afghan are priorities for the Mujahideen leaders as they plan for reconstruction of Afghanistan. In both fields the major impediments to progress are cost, manpower, and baseline deficiencies which have not improved over the last ten years.
      It has been estimated that
literacy in Afghanistan is below 30%, while for Afghan women it is below 3%. This is the worst of any country in the world.
      Health indices show that out of 100 babies born in Afghanistan about 200 babies die before they reach one year old. (See box). In developed countries, less than 10 babies die out of every 100 born.
      In spite of this high infant mortality rate in Afghanistan, the
population will double in about 30 years due to the high birth rate. Such a high doubling rate will put a very severe strain on the educational and health facilities as they are being rebuilt.
      It is interesting to note that recent research has shown that education and health are linked. An improvement in education of a population will automatically provide for an improvement in that population's health as well.
       Health Index          Rate In 1965 [1]   Rate in 1963 [2] 
Crude Birth Rate                    54 per 1000      50 per 1000 
Crude Death Rate                    29 per 1000     2 7 per 1000 
Infant Mortality Rate [3]          223 per 1000     195 per 1000 
Child Death Rate (age 1-4)          39 per 1000      34 per 1000 
Population per physician   15,770 per physician                  
Population per nurse           24,450 per nurse                  
                                                                                                                                 Estimated by Research and Advisory Council of Afghanistan (RACA)
1. World Development Report 1986, published for the World Bahk, Oxford University Press, pp. 180-235.
2.  UNICEF, State of the World's Children, 1986. p. 146.
3. Among refugees in Pakistan in 1984 and 1985, the infant mortality rate was reported to be 119-156/1000. UNHCR, Operations Manual for Afghan Refugees Health Program in Pakistan, 1986. p. 10.
                   The Afghan population will double in 30 years.
28
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
                                         Fail of Taraki’s Village
                                                                                    By Abdul Saboor Shalgari
       October 1989 witnessed the fall of the village of Nur Muhamma4 Tarakai, founder of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) and the first Communist puppet President of Afghanistan, after fierce fighting which had continued for about forty-three days.
       This long awaited victory deserves a detailed study to bring forth the real significance of this feat of the Afghan freedom fighters. Why were the Mujahideen so eager and so determined to conquer this village and what led them to converge a maximum
 force on this battle front?
       Surkally is located in the Muqai District of Ghazni Province and was a stronghold of the Kabul administration forces from both a military and an ideological point of view.
       Maintained and defended by the Soviet and PDPA Communists as the "Home of the Founder of the Revolution, "Surkally was a village which the Mujahideen considered a prize. The PDPA had been established by Taraki in 1965, and in 1967 Karmal split off with the Parchamis, leaving
 Taraki as leaderjaf the Khalqis. Taraki became President after a military coup toppled the,. Daoud regime in April 1978. As Pcesident, Taraki signed a treaty of friendship with -Brezhnev in December: >f-9^8 and--attended a conference^of "non-aligned" countries in Cuba.1 Trt-September 1979 Taraki was forced to resign to make way for Hafizullah Amin (another Khalqi), and' in October 1979 he was assassinated. Taraki was dead, but his village remained a stronghold of the Communists in Ghazni. The Communists were determined to defend it at all costs because they knew that its fall was bound to have an adverse psychological effect on the Communist forces. For the same reason, the Mujahideen were determined not to accept defeat.
      Geographically, and thus strategically and militarily, Surkally was well situated among the hills of Ghazni. Several surrounding villages protected it and, at the same time.^ould easily be
GHAZGIKALLY
                                                                                                                         -V-


                     Artist’s depiction of surkally in foreground and nearby villages of Nangah and Ghazgikally.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
29
BBSSMHRMJp
The home of taraki in Surkally.
supplied from Surkally. Several offensives by the Mujahideen in the past year had met with defeat causing heavy losses in both men and material, mostly due to aerial bombardment by the Kabul forces.
       On September 6, 1989, the Mujahideen, under the "joint command of Dr. Alam Shah, Eng. Jan Baz, Hanif, and Maulvi Shamasullah of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, and Sulaiman Agha of Mahaz-i-Milli, unleashed a major offensive of their combined forces against the village of Surkally. Their well-coordinated attack began with Zoorkally, 10 kilometers away from Surkally. Attacked from six sides at once, the village quickly fell to the hands of Mujahideen, and with it was a large quantity of weapons and ammunition.
       The second attack was on Ghazgikally which is 15 kilometers from Surkally, but initially they were repulsed by the Kabul forces. However, the fighting continued. The enemy aircraft bombarded the area, but because they were required to fly at high altitude to stay out of range of the anti-aircraft guns of the Mujahideen, they were unable to accurately hit any Mujahideen positions.
       Scarcity of food and lack of medicine and first aid facilities were other handicaps for the Mujahideen. Many of them could not even be provided treatment for!a case of fever. Yet taking inspiration from their staunch faith in Allah and the belief that they
were fighting for a sacred and genuine cause, they continued their fight.
      After persistent fighting for over a month, signs of weakness were visible in the enemy ranks. The continued fighting had demoralized the forces struggling to preserve their system of tyranny and oppression. They started contacting Mujahideen to arrange a ceasefire, and a majority of them wanted to surrender to the Mujahideen.
      The commander of the Kabul regime forces first suggested to the Mujahideen that they should agree to a cease-fire until next Spring and after that they would negotiate the option of surrender. The Mujahideen outrightly rejected this offer.
                                                                                                  In the next offer, the Kabul forces set forth some pre-conditions for
 surrender. First, the Kabul forces and supporters of the Communist regime living in the area would be allowed to remain there. Second, every person would be allowed to keep one light weapon for self-defence. The Mujahideen agreed to allow one light weapon for each family, but not to every individual. Furthermore, they rejected the first demand and insisted that the Communists should be shifted to some other independent area inside Afghanistan or be sent to Pakistan after surrendering. It should be noted that the Communists had confiscated the land and property of non-Communist villagers who had then been forced to seek refuge in other parts of Ghazni. This second negotiation also failed and resulted in renewed fighting.
       On the 19th of October the Mujahideen launched a fresh offensive on Ghazgikally, Nangah, and other nearby villages surrounding the main target of Surkally. After only brief fighting, the enemy forces totally surrendered, and the green banner of the Mujahideen was flown in the village of Taraki.
       After surrendering to the Mujahideen, Brigadier Khial Mohammed Taraki, the commander of the Kabul forces and cousin of Nur Mohammed Taraki, revealed that he had kept the Kabul administration ignorant of his surrender to the Mujahideen. Thus it happened that while the final surrender was negotiated, Brigadier Khial received a wireless message from puppet President Najib congratulating him on his successful efforts at safeguarding their positions and strengthening the PDPA! The ignorance of the Najib government about the surrender of their troops paid great dividends. The Kabul
Tank captured at surkally.
30
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
 regime continued supplying food and heavy ammunition to the area for the troops, strengthening instead the hands of the Mujahideen!
       The forty-three day long battle left 50 Kabul supporters dead, 110 seriously wounded, and 1050 taken prisoner, who were later released. Seventeen Mujahideen embraced martyrdom in the fighting.
      The following is a listing of the weapons and ammunition captured..
1.  Light weapons                750 
2.  Mortar 76mm                8     
3.  Anti-aircraft             10     
4.  Mortar DC                  1     
5.  Anti-aircraft 2 barrel     4     
6.  Machine gun               15     
7.  Machine gun PP            35     
8.  Mortar                    11     
9.  Tank T-62                  5     
10. Shilla Aircraft            3     
11. Dashaka                    5     
12. Armour cans                2     
13. Rocket RPG 7              10     
14. Wireless R118              6     
15. Small wireless             6     
16. Machine gun                   15 
17. Machine gun PKT              210 
18. Water vehicle              2     
19. Different pistols          9     
20. Huge quantity of ammunition for  
all the different weapons.
       The morale boosting victory of Surkally will be remembered for a long time to come, not only because of its geo-political importance but also for the strong faith, perserverance and courage which the Afghan Mujahideen demonstrated in the battle for Taraki’s village.
       It was no doubt their staunch faith in the unity of Allah which enabled the Mujahideen to stand like a rock against heavy odds and leave no option for the enemy but to abandon Surkally and lay down their arms before the Mujahideen. It was this same faith which drove the Soviet' forces out of Afghanistan and, Inshallah, the day is not far off when a truly Islamic State, free from all kind of
political, economic, and social exploitation will be established.
Khial Muhammed Taraki (third from the left), militia commander of the kabul regime, cousion of Nur Muhammed Taraki, after surrender to the mujahideen.
(from page 1 7 )
 Afghanistan should be cut off.
 10.   Moscow must realize that they cannot guarantee the survival of their puppet regime no matter means they use or what price they pay.
 11.   We warn the enemies of Islam to refrain from interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and to take a lesson from the ignominious experience of the Soviets in our country.
 12.   It is incumbent upon the Mujahideen to prevent the penetration of moles and spies of the intelligence services like the KGB, CIA, and RAW and to prohibit the creation of events in favour of the enemy.
 13.   The enemy has become discouraged from direct encounters with the Mujahideen and therefore has resorted to assassination of the personalities of Jihad, its supporters and well-wishers. We must identify such plots and foil them in time.
 14.   We appreciate the unconditional and selfless support and aid of friendly countries, but we resent those who resort to espionage under the cover of affording aid.
 15.   We appreciate the assistance
 and support of the brotherly nations of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and other Islamic countries to the people of Afghanistan and hope this sympathy continues until the end of the war.
 16. Our expectation from the brotherly nation of Iran is that they do not get tired from hosting the refugees in these last hours of life in exile.
(from page 1 5 )
and material loss. On the other hand, during the 40-year reign of Zahir Shah the Soviets suffered nothing. In fact, they enjoyed discount prices on their natural gas imports and inflated earnings on their ekports of old arms and machinery.
       When the Soviets admit their invasion of Afghanistan 'was-irn moral and in error, they are not speaking of the Afghans who have been killed, maimed, and terrorized, but of their own losses which were in vain, because the Afghan people would not become Communist atheists no matter what the cost. Sc, when they invite Zahir Shah to return, it is not to allow tf Afghan people self-determination I to return to a policy where they had a‘puppet who, although he was not Communist, carefully followed policies in the Soviet interest.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
31
 Address changes, subscription inquiries, and letters to the editor should be addressed to:
 The Mujahideen P.O. Box 710 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan
    Subscription Rates: PAKISTAN:
    Monthly: Rs.7.00 Annual: Rs. 70.00
    FOREIGN:
    Monthly: US$ 2.00 Annual: US$ 20.00
Please, Send your donation to the Mujahideen monthly on the following bank account.
Hezb—i—Islami Afghanistan Habib Bank Limited Cantt Branch, Peshawar Pakistan
A/c. No. Fc cD50
The Mujahideen monthly is happy to publish articals related to mujahideen any where. Articals containing data and analysis are especially given preference.
                                                                           with regards
                                                                                                                            Acting Editor Faizullah Kakar Ph.l)
__________________  |________a
32
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990