

JAHIDEEN
Published every two months
April / May, 199
No. 2
4th Year

                       We want to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan that is independent, non-aligned and Islamically elected. Our Jihad will continue until this goal is a reality.

                       We insist on elections as the only practical way for solving the current Afghan crisis. No other than an elected Islamic government will be able to put an end to the war and establish durable peace and security in Afghanistan.
                         The internal and external policy of our government will be based on Qur’an and Sunnah. We will make independent judgements on all international issues and maintain friendly relations with all states except those that are engaging in activities detrimental to our faith, independence and territorial integrity.
Vis
                           The Islamic state of Afghanistan will take all possible measures to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals and will promote science and technology for the reconstruction, development, self-reliance and self-sufficiency of our state.
                        Founded By Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan
               Article                                              Page
         01.   Editorial                                              03
         02.   Eng. G. Hekmatyar Reflects on Recent Military Uprising
               in Kabul and the Solution to the Afghan Crisis         05
         03.   Timeline Of A Major Military Uprising in Kabul         06
         04.   HIA's Position Statement Following the Kabul Uprising 09
         05.   Cunning Enemies, Envious Rivals and Credulous Friends
               Form a Joint Front Against HIA                         10
         06.   What Difference Did the Kabul Uprising Make?           15
         07.   Wrong Cannot Be Undone By Wrong                        16
         08.   Will the Afghans Disarm For Peace?                     18
         09.   The People of Kunar Exercise Their Right to Vote       20
         10.   No Escape From Election                                21
         11.   HIA Proposes Options for the Resolution of the
               Afghan Crisis                                          22
Page 1

The Mujahideen, April May, 1990 mMmmmmmmmmmMmmmmmmm
                         Article                                        Page
                      12.   The Uprising was of Great Benefit to Mujahideen:
                            Hekmatyar                                              23
                      13.   The East-West Cooperation: a Danger for Islamic World 25
                      14.   Hezb-i-Islami Resolution on Feb. 27, 1990              26
                      15.   Kashmir Issue                                          31
                      16.   The Uprising in Azerbaijan                             34
                      17.   Eastern Turkistan not Xinkiang                         36
                      18.   Islam In Uganda                                        38
                      19.   Palestine and the US Congress                          38
                      20.   The Communique of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan            39
                      21.   No Human Rights in Afghanistan                         39
                      22.   Fundamentalism ? ?                                     40
                      23.   Who Stands Where ?                                     41
                      24.   Wheat Empty Silos, Ammunition Full Arsenals            43
                      25.   Famine Kills 25 in Northwest Afghanistan               44
                      26.   Jihad, Not Vengeance                                   45
                      27.   A Young Pioneer in Jihad                               46
                      28.   Coward's Eyes Never Sleep                              47
                      29.   The Faculty of Education of Jihad University           48
                      30.   An Intersectoral Approach to Health for
                            Post-War Afghanistan                                   50
You can get our magazine from the representatives of the Afghan Mujahideen.
HIA                       HIA                    HIA                  HIA                  
           8313 MOLINE-PI 250 CHAPTER ROAD       P. O. BOX 3245       P.O.BOX 48139        
SPRING FIELD VA. 22.153   DOLLS HILL, LONDON NW2 MAKKAH               POST CODE 54552      
U.S.A.                    UNITED KINGDOM         SAUDI ARABIA         As SABAHEYYAH        
                          Tel. 451-30302                              KUWAIT               
REGIONAL OFFICE OF AFGHAN HLA                    HIA                  HIA                  
MUJAHIDEEN FOR S. E. ASIA THEATRE. 12            P. O. BOX 226        P. O. BOX 16115/557  
# 902/4 JALAN TUN ISMATL  D-5300, BONN-1         TAIF                 TEHRAN. IRAN         
KUALA LUMPUR. MALAYSIA    WEST GERMANY           SAUDI ARABIA                              
        Tel: 03-291 7943, POSTFACH 300507                             HIA                  
              03-291 4835                        HIA                  P.O. BOX 1576        
                                                 P.O. BOX 17721       KHAMIS-UL-MASHIT     
                                                 JEDDAH               SAUDI ARABIA         
HIA                       LAM                    SAUDI ARABIA                              
YAKACIK MAHGILET          46 AVENUE de TERVAREN                       HIA                  
SOK #24/13                1040 BRUXELLES         HIA                  P. O. BOX 50321      
KEUIOREN/ANKARA           BELGIQUE               P.O. BOX 5127        RIYADH               
TURKEY                    Tel: 02/7345011        ABU DHABI            SAUDIA ARABIA        
                                                 UNITED ARAB EMIRATES                      
LAM                       HIA                                         HIA                  
ARY SCHEFFER STR. 10      15 RUE de PROGRES      HIA                  P. O. BOX 7538       
2597 W DEN HAAG           93230, ROMINIVILLE     P. O. BOX 4260       DUBAI                
HOLLAND                   FRANCE                 DOHA. QATAR          UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
           P.O.BOX #97819                                                                  
                                                 HLA                  HIA                  
HIA                       HIA                    22 JAMESTOWN         P. O. BOX 15271      
GPO BOX 1848              P. O. BOX 10328        CRES-ETOEICOETE      AL-AIN               
            CANBERRA 2601 MADINAH MUNAWWARAH     ONT. CANADA          UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
AUSTRALIA                 SAUDI ARABIA                                                     
Page 2
           Uprising Changes the Tide
                                                               The Mujahideen, April May, 1990
                                                    Editorial
        At a time when millions of the Afghan Jihad supporters were being drawn into a state of malaise and discouragement due to the lack of any visible Mujahideen advances, and at a time when the forces opposing the Mujahideen had initiated both military and political offensives, a significant military uprising in Kabul backed by the most effective and experienced Mujahideen party changed the tide of history.      *
        The military uprising on March 6 led by General Tanai, the Afghan Minister of Defence, rained bombs on Najib’s palace and destroyed the Kabul radio station forcing Najib to flee for his life to the Soviet Embassy. The officers of the uprising who carried out some 150 rounds of bombardment had the clear
 t,ng. G. Hekmatyar whose words and deeds facilitated the Kabul Uprising
                                                                                                                              This military uprising was important
                                                  from a variety of angles. Firstly, because the uprising was undertaken with the support of a well-known Mujahideen party and because Gen. Tanai subsequently joined the Mujahideen declaring his determination to oust Najib, the majority of
The Uprising was a severe blow to Najib in terms the Mujahideen of material loss and political embarassment         commanders
to be a morale boosting event for the Mujahideen on the one hand, and on the other hand it scattered the morale of the enemy. The uprising also quickened the pace of Jihad throughout Afghanistan.
         Secondly, because an “insider” like Gen. Tanai denounced Najib’s pretences of political legitimacy and exposed the mendacity of his plan for “national reconciliation”, the uprising was a political blow to Najib both at home and in front of the world. Tanai’s account of the atrocious methods used by Najib to hold onto the reins of power reinforced the Mujahideen’sposition that Najib cannot be part of peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue, rendering ineffective the propaganda seeping into the West that Najib could be a reborn
headquarters of the uprising at an early hour, incapacitated their communication
systems, and then destroyed the runways and ammunition depots at Bagram, thus saving Najib.
cut support of the Afghan Army. However, the Soviets,learning in advance about the plan for the uprising, were able to blockade the
viewed the uprising as a great
Mujahideen victory. The uprising proved
Page 3
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
military hardware to the Kabul regime in the face of the declining supply of weapons to the Mujahideen was a potential military challenge. At the same time the international propaganda effort against the Mujahideen supported by both Soviets and the West created an atmosphere that was about to weaken the ideology of the Afghan struggle. The lack of any effective or creative efforts of the Mujahideen political parties to make their government (AIG) acceptable to the Afghans and to the international community added to the frustration of the Mujahideen on all fronts.
        It was against this background that the Hezb-i-Islami played a momentous role in the explosion of the Najib’s regime from within, bursting its bubble of credibility gained by false propaganda. Using good judgment, timely action, and foresight the Hezb-i-Islami has put the Afghan Jihad again on its firm track leading towards the establishment of a truly Islamic government.
immediately mobilized their forces to take advantage of the disruption in the Kabul army and have captured post after post while the long-standing offer of general amnesty continued to be universally upheld by the commanders. In addition, a recent poll of 341 randomly selected refugees in Peshawar, Pakistan, showed that 67% of the refugees felt that the uprising had benefitted the Mujahideen and 54% stated that the Mujahideen leaders should have backed the uprising (17% refused to state their opinion).
                                                                                                                         Gen, $h, Tanai, the leader of the
 _________recent military uprising in Kabul
 peace activist and revealing the designs of the propaganda machine which is circulating such insidious deceptions.
          Thirdly, the uprising has weakened Najib militarily because at least 30% of the airforce planes were destroyed, three major ammunition depots were blown up, and essentially all military installations in Kabul were bombarded. So many pilots participated in the uprising that Najib had to rely on Soviet pilots and SCUD missiles during the uprising to attack Bagram airbase which was under the control of Tanai’s forces. Since the uprising, Najib has been forced to rely more on the SCUD missiles to counter the Mujahideen offensives simultaneously in all parts of Afghanistan whereas previously the airforce constituted the greatest advantage by the Kabul regime.
          Although the untimely statements by the leaders of some of the Mujahideen parties condemning the struggle of Gen. Tanai who had joined the Mujahideen senta confusing massage to the field commanders, evidence shows that the end result was merely to display the isolation of these leaders from the actual field situation and from the opinion of the Afghan nation rather than to significantly affect to the outcome of the uprising. Most of the field commanders
        The Hezb-i-Islami of Afghanistan, which had encouraged the uprising and facilitated it, was keeping in mind historical wisdom as well as the present realities inside and outside Afghanistan. Historical wisdom dictates that the most peaceful and effective way of winning a war is to encourage defection from the enemy’s military ranks. The current fate of defections and the ongoing damage to and depletion of the Najib forces would certainly have been significantly less         without
Mujahideen support. In fact, it is unlikely that Gen. Tanai would have even staged the uprising if he had no assurance of amnesty and support from the Mujahideen, namely the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
        The realities inside and outside Afghanistan were such that Mujahideen faced both a military and a moral challenge due to waining international support.         The
tremendous daily shipments of Soviet
Page 4
The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990 W
Eng. G. Hekmatyar lljlf reflects on the recent i|2 military uprisingjin|i||l Kabul and the solution to the Afghan
         Eng. G. Hekmatyar, Amir of the Hezb-i-IsIami Afghanistan, provided his analysis of the March 6th military uprising and the future line of action against the Kabul regime in an interview with "the Mujahideen" in mid-April. He also responded to recent accusations oftheU.S.andthe A.I.G. The following is a summary of the interview statements by Br. Hekmatyar:
         Concerning the March 6th incident in Kabul in which the Afghan Army officers declared their intent to join the Mujahideen and their people and to fight against a regime which is oppressing the nation, calling it a “coup d’etat” is not a proper interpretation. “Coup d’etat” is a word which is applied to an event where some army officers in order to assume power resort to a covert armed attempt against a government A “military uprising” would be a more accurate designation of the event, and we expect similar events in the near future, Insha-Allah.
         All those officers who were afraid of joining the Mujahideen have been assured that they will not be persecuted after joining the Mujahideen. The way has been paved for those officers who are fed-up with the war, hold Gen. Najib responsible for the protraction of the war, do not want to cause more bloodshed,and intend to join their people. This is why we consider the recent uprising a starting point for similar incidents in the future.
         This military uprising has provided many benefits to the Mujahideen. High-ranking officers and key elements of the Afghan Army in the
ground and air forces have joined hands with the Mujahideen in their action against the Najib regime. The military uprising still enjoys the support of the majority of the Afghan Army and has provided a good opportunity for the Mujahideen to penetrate the army ranks and establish their influence there.
         The recent uprising was an unexpected incident for all. It disproved many of the superpowers’ calculations regarding the Afghan Jihad. From now on, neither can Communist Russia see any possibility for the survival of Najib’s rule nor can the Americans. From now on, neither can the Russians contemplate that the Mujahideen are not capable of overthrowing the puppet regime, nor can the western countries. Now it is an accepted fact that the Mujahideen are in possession of various means to overthrow Gen. Najib’s regime.
         Concerning the replacement of Najib’s puppet regime with an alternative acceptable to the Mujahid forces, remains a precondition. We will not accept elections which are held under the auspices of the PDPA, during the rule of the PDPA, or with the participation of Najib or his party the PDPA. The election process should be supervised by an election commission which would be formed by the Mujahid forces and enjoys their consent If the necessity for supervision by an international delegation arises, and all the Jihad forces feel the necessity of it, then we prefer a delegation from the OIC.
         Concerning the US propaganda against the HI A, it seems that subsequent to the “withdrawal” of the Soviet forces
from Afghanistan, the US has intensified their propaganda and diplomatic campaign to weaken and isolate the HI A. But the HI A is a reality which cannot be ignored, and time has proved that, our noble nation is standing by the HI A, and the endeavors against the HI A will never meet any success, Insha-Allah.
         Recent allegations that the Mujahideen are involved in narcotics trafficking, are merely attempts to justify the US interference in our internal affairs and have no other basis. To really succeed in combating the drug menace, it would be more logical to intensify the war against narcotics and drug abuse in the US itself because it is the mental and physical “need” for narcotics which have created the international demand for them.
         Concerning the AIG, they should have declared the dissolution of AIG a long time ago. Instead they have produced a situation where all their component parties have lost the potential for taking any initiative. Intensification of conflicts, issuing contradictory statement, and causing disgrace have been the souvenirs of the AIG. Were they operating as individual parties, they could have played a more constructive role in Afghan Affairs.
         For instance, review the AIG’s position regarding the recent developments in our country. A significant inc ident takes place in Kabul, massive operations are launched against the puppet regime, the presidential palace and the communist party cencom headquarters are subjected to bombardments, but our friends do not know what happened there. Only after two days do they regain their consciousness and take a stand, a stand similar to that of Najib and Wali Khan.
         Concerning alleged confidential documents about covert agreements between the Najib regime and the AIG leaders, Hekmatyar stated that, if we have received any, we would try our best to use them in choosing a right path for ourselves, and not for propaganda against others.
Page 5
                                                                                                                                 The Mujahideen , Apr illMay, 1990

TIMELINE OF A MAJOR MILITARY
UPRISING IN KABUL
 ch 6, 1990, was the second day of the trial in Kabul of 124 officers who had been arrested in December under suspicion of plotting a coup. The Defence Minister General Shahnawaz Tanai felt the trial was just further evidence of how farNajib was willing to go toeliminate any suspected opposition. Even officers who were previously trusted friends of Najib had been arrested and executed on very flimsy grounds. Gen. Tanai decided that the time was right for a military uprising which he had secretly planned for at least eight months, including contacting the Mujahideen for their support through Hezb-i-Islami members in Kabul.
         The headquarters of the uprising was to be the Defence Ministry Building on Darul Aman Boulevard from where Gen. Asef Shour, Gen. Ja'far Sartair, and Col. Kabir Karwal would organize the supporters of the uprising and be able to communicate by radio to coordinate the defecting army divisions in Kabul as well as maintain contact with the airforce in Bagram and supporting officers in other cities.
         Gen. Tanai drove by an APC early in the a.m. to Bagram Airbase where a secondary command center was to maintain control of the defecting airforce. He believed that every pilot would support him or follow his orders except for one Najib loyalist pilot in Mazar-i-Sharif. Tanai was also reported to have the support in Kabul of the 5th, 7th, and 8th military divisions, the 37th commando brigade, the 4th and 15th armored divisions, as well as the 40th division in Bagram.
         Unfortunately, the KGB got wind of the plot at the last minute and by the time the uprising started at 1.45 p.m.
 on March 6 with the surprise bombing of the Presidential Palace, loyalist tanks had begun rolling toward Darul Aman where soon the chief command center of the uprising was fighting for its very existence. General Najib somehow escaped the bomb attacks on the palace where he was working that day and fled to the Russian Embassy where he consulted with his advisors about every move.
          Initially, the Shindand Airbase, the Khaja Rawash, and the Bagram Airbase were fully controlled by the rebel forces. Over 150bombing missions were carried out the first day of the uprising by the airforce, accurately hitting not only the Presidential Palace but also destroying military, WAD, and Sarandoy installations around the city and effectively destroying Kabul Radio Station at about 1 a.m. early the next morning.
         Najib recovered his radio facilities quickly and broadcast from another station, perhaps in Mazar. Martial music interspersed with recorded pronouncements by Najib and his new Defence Minister Aslam Watanjar were heard for two days while neither spoke personally on the radio. An indefinite curfew was imposed on Kabul after 7 p.m. on March 6,1990.
         Around 4 p.m. March 6, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar addressed a press conference in Islamabad, Pakistan, stating that the Hezb-i-Islami supported the military uprising, calling on all Mujahideen to intensify their attacks on the Najib regime forces to prevent mobilization of forces from other cities from reaching Kabul, and declaring that Gen. Tanai had made an agreement with the Mujahideen to topple the Najib regime so that elections could be held to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         The Pakistan Foreign Office also commented on the uprising on Tuesday stating it was clear evidence of the fragility of the Najib regime and proved that the solution of the Afghan problem lies in the departure of Najib from power and the establishment of a
Page 6
broad-based government in Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen , April jMay,1990
         Besides the loyalist tanks fighting for the control of the Defence Ministry, Najib was supported by a Russian SCUD station in Termez and Russian bomber planes. SCUD missiles fired on Kabul and Bagram could not have originated from the Kabul station because the range was too short while the Mazar station computer facilities had been put out of order by Tanai’s sympathizers. Similarly, the command center at the airforce base at Bagram knew where every plane and pilot of the Afghan Airforce was flying, bombing, or landing. When Bagram base was aerial bombed, Tanai’s forces knew that only the Russian planes and pilots could be responsible. Further evidence was provided by the bomb craters themselves which were made by “cross bombs”, a type of weapon which the Russians had never provided to the Afghan Airforce.
         By 5 a.m. on March 7, the entire Defence Ministry building was destroyed and the three leading officers of Tanai’s forces there were killed as well as many others while some were arrested or surrendered. Fighting was fierce in the city at Khair Khana Mayna and at Kabul Airport where the Tanai forces had taken control. Three SCUDs fell near Bagram Airbase but communication and control facilities were not destroyed until the Russian pilots bombed the airbase, damaging the runway, destroying about thirty planes, and most importantly, the weapons depot.
         Without further capacity to attack the enemy or even defend themselves, and without communication with other stations to call for assistance, Tanai, many of his pilots, and other defecting officers fled the Bagram airbase. They had been so sure of victory that most of them had no escape plan. Two planes and a helicopter arrived in Pakistan after flying across Afghanistan, sometimes flying high to avoid Mujahideen anti-aircraft weapons and sometimes low to avoid Kabul-Russian radardetection. Gen. Tanai found refuge with the Hezb-i-Islami forces and shifted operation to a Mujahideen command
center near Kabul. The fate of other pilots and officers of the military uprising is notknown. Perhaps they were trapped by attack on the airbase before they could make a decision to escape and surrendered or were arrested or killed.
         Gen. Najib continued his poisonous propaganda over the radio, with the advice of the Russians, capitalizing on three devious deceptions: first, that his appointment of Aslam Watanjar a prominent Khalqi proved that he still enjoyed support of both factions of the PDPA; second, that Gen. Tanai’s association with the Mujahideen proved him to be a traitorous opportunist seeking power, and third, that Gen. Tanai had deserted his supporting forces by seeking safety in Pakistan.
         With his communication systems destroyed at both Darul Aman and Bagram, Gen. Tanai was stymied in his attempts to counter the propaganda andcommunicate with the forces in other cities. His short messages transmitted through the media of Iran and Pakistan, however, assured his supporters that he was working with the Mujahideen to overthrow the ruthless Najib regime, to achieve an end to the decade-long fighting, and to restore self-determination to the Afghan nation.
         From March 7 up until the present. Mujahideen intensified their activities and have captured post after post in areas around Jalalabad, Ghazni, Khost, Qunduz, Qandahar, Shindand and Herat.
Page 7
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
         Although the Hezb-i-Islami and the Pakistani Foreign Office had responded to the news of the military uprising on the first day, the rest of the world made cautious statements towards the end of the second day.
         President Mujaddedi of the defunct AIG said that the AIG was remaining neutral in this example of infighting between PDPA factions but that, in any case, the Mujahideen should take advantage of the situation by intensifying their attacks.
         The U.S. Foreign Office stated that the military uprising displayed that the Afghan people wished to see peace return to Afghanistan and that Najib’s departure was of paramount importance in the Afghan solution.
         Moscow’s official statement was that the situation in Kabul implied a regrettable set-back to the “national reconciliation” process where it seemed that peace efforts had been gaining ground.
         On March 8, fighting again broke out in the streets of Kabul, at the airport, and continued at Bagram Airbase. However, Najib held a press conference that afternoon to prove that he was still alive and to declare that the
uprising had been suppressed.
         On March 9, Kabul Airport, also called Khaja Rawash Airport, was back in Gen. Najib’s hands and was said to be again receiving flights of supplies from Moscow.
         An arms depot in the center of Kabul, called Koloula Pushta, was destroyed on March 10 causing an unknown number of casualties, as the news of this blow-up was suppressed. It is believed to have been sabotaged from within, rather than hit by aerial bombing.
         It has been estimated that 200 civilians and400 military personnel were killed in Kabul during the week of the coup bid. About 20 tanks and 30 planes were also destroyed. The planes represent 30% of the planes which the Kabul regime normally maintains in its airforce.
         On March 11, Gen. Najib sent a message to ex-king Zahir Khan requesting his assistance in the “national reconciliation” program.
         Gen. Shahnawaz Tanai held a press conference in Logar on March 14 and stated that he opposed Najib because his ruthless policy toward any opposition was prolonging the bloodshed in
Afghanistan and his national reconciliation plan was a sham. Tanai denied that he himself was seeking power and pointed to the fact that he gave up a very powerful post as Defence Minister to side with the Mujahideen and the Afghan nation.
          On March 15, Eng. Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, while addressing a graduation ceremony, outlined the events of the military uprising in Kabul and how it failed to topple the Najib regime due to Russian support, but Najib’s downfall was now inevitable.
          Ex-King Zahir Khan replied to Najib on March 18 that the Kabul PDPA government lacks legitimacy and that the Communists should not be part of the future government of Afghanistan, even on a short-term basis.
          On March 18, Gen. Najib announced that 24 senior leaders of the PDPA and six high-ranking army officers were sacked from the party’s Cencom for their involvement in the uprising and were arrested to be tried by a special tribunal. The leaders removed constitute about one-fifth of the Cencom members. At least 600 other Afghans were also arrested on suspicion of participation in the uprising.
       On April4,an Afghan pilot who had been arrested for his role in bombing the Presidential Palace and other government installations in Kabul escaped to Pakistan along with his brother from the WAD to whom he was unknowingly handed over for interrogation following his capture. Both supplied details of the March 6 military uprising which verified the reports already received from Gen. Tanai and other leaders of the uprising. They also reported very kind assistance from commanders of several different Mujahideen parties as they made their escape by land across Afghanistan.
Page 8
gttttg

                                                                   The Mujahideen , Apr ill May, 1990

HIA's position statement
                              following the Kabul Uprising
     O
        n March 6 the Afghan Army decided to side with the people of Afghanistan and stage a military uprising againsttheGen.Najibregime. According to reports that day the Presidential Palace
         To those who extend helping hands to Mujahideen to achieve this goal and stand beside the Mujahideen on their part, we assure our full support and cooperation.
Presidential Palace is under heavy bombardment and is also being shelled by the cannons and tanks.
                                                                                                                              The majority of army divisions
Ung. Hekmatyar briefing the press on March 7 about the Kabul Uprising
had been heavily bombarded and fighting was continuing in the streets of Kabul.
         Engineer Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, addressed a press conference in Islamabad and declared his full support to the army uprising and directed all personnel of the Afghan Army loyal to Hezb-i-Islami and Mujahideen around Kabul and elsewhere to fully support the army in toppling the regime as it will finally pave the way for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         Following is the full text of the policy statement released by theAmir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan on March 6, 1990, the first day of the Kabul Uprising:
  "In the name of Allah, the Merciful.
         We support every effort that leads to the toppling of Kabul regime which could result in the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         Most of the Afghan army officers are fed up with war. They held the Kabul regime responsible for the blood letting in Afghanistan. Neither do they want any more of the blood letting of their people at their own hands nor do they desire to fight against their own nation. Therefore they have decided to stand beside the people and they seek to employ every opportunity to topple the Kabul regime. The army’s uprising attempt against the Kabul regime stems from such feelings and decisions.
       . We advise all army officers who are loyal to Hezb-i-Islami to seize this opportunity, play an active role in the overthrowing of the Kabul regime, and back those who are trying to overthrow the Kabul regime and want to join hands with the Mujahideen. God willing, the wicked Kabul regime will fall as a result of this attempt.
         The arm y and the air force have jointly risen against Gen. Najib; the
                                                                         Page 9
near Kabul have risen against the regime and arc being backed by the army divisions stationed in the countryside.
         The role of those army personnel who are taking part in this attempt to overthrow the Kabul regime in order to bring the war to an end will be greatly appreciated by the Afghan Nation.
         For the army officers who are taking part in this attempt, we consider this deed to be sufficient to compensate for their past, and it will be assumed that being a part of the Afghan Army they were forced to fight against their own people.
         It is high time that the whole Afghan nation stands firm to bring down this hated regime and by doing so bring the war to its end.

The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
 Cunning enemies, envious rivals and j credulous friends j form a joint front [ against HIA______|
                                                                 By Haqqyar
     a the one hand, the Afghan army officers’ uprising of March 6th has inflicted a severe blow to Kabul regime’s emaciated stature. Its pillars received serious jolts, its army became disintegrated, its credibility ended, Najib’s confidence was damaged to the extent that henceforth he cannot trust even his closest and intimate aides and he must be frightened of every one.
The uprising paved the way for similar uprisings in the future. The uprising proved to be a short cut way for the army to come into the fold of the Mujahideen, and dispelled the army’s fear of being tried, persecuted and executed by the Mujahideen. This all resulted in the Mujahideen’s renewed activism. Their morale was boosted; the stalemate broken, a stalemate which had cast a shadow on Jihad; and consequently great victories were scored for the Mujahideen.
elements who were intent on orienting the course of Jihad so as to serve their
vested interests and achieve their goals.
occurrence in Afghanistan which was against their predictions, especially an
event such as the recent formidable
They wanted to bridle the Jihad forces in order to prepare the ground for themselves to emerge as the representatives and the guardians of the people. Through this process they wished to put themselves in a position to make a bargain with the Russians on the Afghan Jihad, a bargain which would enable them to impose a government acceptable to both the superpowers while keeping Najib at the helm of power until the ground could be prepared for the re-coronation of Zahir Khan.
uprising in Kabul.
                                                                                                          Some of the Western intelligence networks spread propaganda
          This uprising was unexpected for the West, and the US in particular, because they could not imagine an
Najib the puppet Kabul ruler
         On the other hand, the uprising foiled the joint conspiracies hatched by the enemies of Islam against our Jihad. It refuted their propaganda that the regime was growing stronger day by day that the Mujahideen were incapable of toppling the regime, and that a military victory was impossible for them. The enemies’ calculations and predictions regarding the Afghan Jihad proved unrealistic and subjective.
         The uprising proved to be instrumental in disappointing the
Page 10
during the early hours of the uprising to demoralize the Mujahideen and to boost the morale of the Najib forces. They claimed through their mass media that the uprising had been thwarted and that Najib was in effective control of the situation.
         Their fifth columnists raised a hue and cry inside the Mujahideen ranks that they consider both parties (the Parcham and Khalq factions of the Communist PDPA Party) as enemies and will not support either side.
         They were trying to give the impression that officers joining the Mujahideen ranks was impossible, and that dire consequences were expected for those forces and the Mujahideen supporting them. The journalists affiliated with the aforesaid networks mainly concentrated on two points in the Press Conference addressed by Defence Minister Shahnawaz Tanai. The points were:
         1 - To project the impression to other military officers in Afghanistan that the Defence Minister is being treated as a POW by the Mujahideen, so that they may refrain from joining the Mujahideen fold.
         2-         To force the Defence Minister to confess that he is representing the PDPA, and his bid in joining the Mujahideen of the HIA implicates a coalition between these two parties, and to create suspicions and doubts regarding the HIA. They also wanted him to deny his membership in PDPA, so as to decrease his influence among the PDPA and the officers affiliated with the Khalq faction, thus making him a failure in provoking them against the regime.
         Gen. Najib in his first speech after the uprising, maintained thatTanai had sold himself to Hekmatyar’s party, and had escaped only after he had tom up his membership card of the PDPA and thrown away his medals and military uniform. By such propaganda Najib was aiming to show thatTanai’scredentials as an army officer and a PDPA member were ruined, so as to isolate him
                                                            The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
both from the PDPA and army.
         Our envious rivals and credulous friends also acted in accordance with the wishes of our shrewd enemies. On being sure that the uprising enjoyed the blessings and the support of the HIA, they declared that both of the belligerent parties in Kabul were their enemies so as to refrain from supporting either side, while one of the belligerent parties joined the Mujahideen and bombarded the palace of the ruler of a regime against whom Mujahideen had been waging war for 12 years. Even if we accept that both sides were our enemies then a smart Mujahid must categorize his foes. In the first step he aims at the bigger and more dangerous foe!
When his two enemies are fighting each other he may prefer the victory of one and avail of the defeat of the second one. In such conditions he cannot remain neutral and cannot treat both sides equally.
         Wasitnotduring the war between the Roman and Persian empires, the then big two powers and enemies of Islam, that the Omniscient and All-Knowing Allah (S wT) presaged the impending victory of Rome against Persia as a good omen to the Muslims, when He said:
         “The Roman Empire.
         Has been defeated In a land close by;
         But they, (even) after This defeat of theirs,
         Will soon be victorious Within a few years.
         With Allah is the decision.
         In the Past And in the Future :
         On that Day shall The Believers rejoice —
         With the help of Allah.
         He helps whom He will,
         And He is Exalted in Might,
         Most Merciful — the Rahim.” (Ar-Rum 1-4)
         Did feeling joy and pleasure over the victory of Rome against Persia imply a compromise with the enemy? Was the Roman front an Islam ic one, the triumph of which was informed as a good omen? Or is Islam teaching its followers that the enemies should be classified and separated from each other
 and thus a preference should be made over the victory of one of them during their internal conflicts?
          Our intelligence obliges us to defend the officers who, in a bid against the will of the Russians who are persistent on keeping Gen. Najib at the helm of power, have revolted against him; whose positions were subjected to bombardment and shelling by SCUD missiles from across the northern border; who did not succeed in their attempt because of the direct interference of Russia; and who in the case of victory or otherwise had no option but to rely upon the Mujahideen and surrender to them.
          Our credulous and simpleton friends too acted upon the signal from our envious rivals, as our shrewd foes
Page 11
                                                   The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990 •->>;;

wished. In Shahnawaz Tanai’s press conference these elements persisted on compelling him (Tanai) to confess that he was either a Mujahid or a member of PDPA and thus a Communist.
         Strangely enough they don’t restrict themselves to the facts:
         a- of his confessing his past misdeeds for the compensation of which he resorted to the uprising,
         b- that he is now standing by the Mujahideen,
         c- that his support of the HIA’s cause does not imply that there’s a coalition between PDPA and the HIA, but the fact is that he and his comrades-in-arms have joined the HIA in their individual capacities,
         d- that he has professed to be a
Muslim,
         e- that he fights for the formation of an elected Islamic government, f- that he holds Najib responsible for the prolonging of the war,
         g- of his disbelief that restoration of peace and materialization of the will of our nation to establish an elected Islamic government can occur when Najib continues in power,
         h- that the main factor behind the failure of their uprising to score an immediate victory was the reinforcement of Gen. Najib’s loyalists by the Russians, a fact condemnable by all the countries of free world.
         Having such postures towards this significant event and the forces of the uprising does not display a commitment towards Islam, nor can it be a proof of seriousness and earnestness for defense of the tenets of Islam. In fact such foolish attitudes and deceptive fatuity have always proved harmful for the Muslim Ummah.
         Do they not know the Omniscient and All-knowing Allah (SwT), in this regard addresses the Muslims:
         “O ye who Believe !
         When ye go abroad In the cause of Allah, Investigate carefully,
         And say not to any one Who offers you a salutation : “Thou art none of a Believer! ” Coveting the perishable goods Of this life : with Allah Are profits and spoils abundant. Even thus were ye yourselves Before, till Allah conferred On you His favors : therefore Carefully investigate.
         For Allah is well aware Of all that ye do.”
         (An-Nesa’ 94)
Also He (SwT) says :
         “Except those who join A group between whom And you there is a treaty
         (Of peace), or those who approach
         You with hearts restraining Them from fighting you As well as fighting their own People. If Allah had pleased. He could have given them Power over you, and they Would have fought you: Therefore if they withdraw From you but fight you not. And (instead) send you (Guarantees of) peace, then Allah
         Hath opened no way
         For you (to war against them).”
         (An-Nesa - 90)
         These sincere-looking simpletons are in fact loading the enemies’ guns. They want to compel a person who consistently maintains he is a Muslim, to say that he is a member of PDPA. These simpletons instead of taking the matter in the sense of being a manifestation of Mujahideen’sinfluence and contrivance try to prove that the officers are not true converts to Islam. Poor guys, do they not understand whom they are benefitting?
         Let our friends know that we are following the Sunnah of the beloved Prophet (pbuh), who declared general amnesty for all those who had repented for their past mistakes, abandoned
  Gen.
  Zarif
  (left)
  in
  conver-
  sation
  with
  Eng.
  Ahmad
  Shah
  and
  Prof.
  Sayyaf

                                                                 The Mujahideen , April!may, 1990


hostility towards Muslims and joined the Mujahideen ranks. Najib’s brother Seddiq and Gen. Zarif (head of Najib’s presidential palace, cabinet and Cencom security) were treated in accordance with the same declaration. They were granted asylum and were not put to trial despite their Communist background and their past collaboration with the invading Russians in massacring the Muslims.
        The Beloved Prophet (pbuh), after the conquest of Makkah, bestowed an honor on the ex-commander-in-chief of the infidels, Abu Sufyan, in declaring his house a secure and safe haven, and even said that any one who took refuge in Abu Sufyan’s house would be secure and safe. Addressing the POWs he said: “you can go away, you are free! ”
Thus the general amnesty declared by Mujahideen has not been a propaganda tactic to deceive the enemy, but was an adherence to the Sunnah, for the implementation of which we are obliged. Why did the Prophet forgive Abu Sufyan? Why did he accept the conversion of Khaled who had been responsible for the martyrdom of 70 of the Prophet ’ s esteemed companions, and the defeat of Muslims in the Battle of Uhud in which the beloved Prophet himself sustained severe wounds?
        The HI A has acted in accordance with this Sunnah.
Those whom the HI A has granted asylum are offering daily Salat (prayer), are fasting, declare to be Muslims, have confessed their dark past and place stress on the formation of an elected Islamic government.
        Qur’an-e Hakim, in regard to a polytheist (Mushrek) who soughtasylum with the Muslims, says:
        “If one amongst the Polytheists Ask thee for asylum,
        Grant it to him.
        So that he may hear the Word Of Allah ; and then escort him To where he can be secure That is because they are Men without knowledge.”
         (At-Taubah - 6)
         A faithful Mujahid’s high ambitions bind and oblige him to fight decisively and relentlessly those who are fighting him and are creating hurdles in the way of Islam, but he behaves generously and gentlemanly towards a person who has abandoned fighting and seeks asylum with him. We should avoid mean and base behavior which is not suitable to the character and the high ambitions of a dedicated Mujahid.
         A discerning Mujahid and a knowledgeable missionary even respects those who are frustrated with war and do not fight the Mujahideen; such as those who have quit collaborating with the
enemy and do not want to be a party in the war any more, not to mention those who declare that they are joining the Mujahideen to fight against the real enemy, and seek asylum from Mujahideen as Muslims.
        Unfortunately some of our friends, instead of making a judgement regarding the Afghan issues and the attitudes of the parties involved, as sincere Muslims, take sides with particular parties and defend the unfair and unjustifiable attitudes of theirchosen parties. Moreover they interpret the just and fair stands of the other parties in a
biased malicious manner and spread propaganda against them.
         The recent uprising was predicted by the HIA a few months in advance and the HIA was making preliminary preparations for it It was discussed with other parties’ leaders that the army was going to revolt against the Kabul regime; that, after the takeover, the cabinet of the incumbent party Cencom members will be handed over to Mujahideen for trial; then a council will be formed consisting of impartial officers and the Mujahideen commanders operating around Kabul. Elections will be conducted under the auspices of the Election Commission consisting of members of the seven
parties within six months, after which power will be transferred to an elected government.
          Some of our friends on the signal from envious leaders interpreted it as a “coalition” between the HIA and a faction of the ruling party, and began efforts to the instill doubts into Muslims’ minds and to create confusions and suspicions.
          Actually the story is quite different; the HIA has fought both factions in the front lines. Islamic Da’wah and armed struggle was begun
Page 13
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
by the HI A against the Afghan un-Islamic regimes, and conflicts with the Communists on ideological and armed basis was initiated by theHI A committed members. If a coalition government were acceptable to theHI A, it should have been formed with Najib.
         Friends could have objected if the HI A had either formed a government with an un-Islamic party or had accepted acouncil consisting of Communists. Yet neither a coalition council nor any coalition government has been formed.
         HIA’s position in this regard has been clear that after the fall of the Gen. Najib government a council comprised of “impartial officers” and “Mujahideen commanders operating around Kabul” would run government affairs for six months, and then the power should be transferred to an elected Islamic government.
         Why are these friends without any inquiry and research, but justrelying on envious elements’ allegations, making accusations against the HI A and instilling doubts and suspicions into people’s minds regarding HIA’s just and Islamic position.
         Have they forgotten this clear Qur’anic injunction which says:
         “O ye who believe !
         If a wicked person comes To you with any news. Ascertain the truth, lest Ye harm people unwittingly, And afterwards become Full of repentance for What ye have done.” (Al-Hujarat - 6)
Or that which the Qur'an says:
         “Why did not the Believers — Men and women —when ye Heard of the affair,—put The best construction on it In their own minds And say, “This (charge)
         Is an obvious lie?”
         (An-Nur-12)
         HIA is making it clear once more that:
                                                                                                                                        Page 14
         1-          It will not participate in any coalition government,
         2-          It will never be satisfied by anything less than an elected Islamic government,
         3-          It will never tolerate even the mere existence of un-Islamic parties in Afghanistan,
         4-          It will never allow un-Islamic activities to be carried out in Afghanistan,
         5-          It will continue Jihad until an entirely Islamic government is established by Afghan committed Mujahideen.
         It is surprising that our friends are making propaganda against HIA in a situation where the HIA has become a target of al 1 the plots and conspiracies of the enemies of Islam. Russia and the U. S. are m aki ng propaganda against HI A on such a scale that one is liable to make the presumption that there is no Jihad organization in Afghanistan except the HIA.
         The enemies believe that as long as HIA has not been smashed, they will not be able to prevent the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan nor irppose a government of their own choice on our nation. They consider the HIA to be a great danger and the main obstacle in their way, and, for its isolation,
 defamation and crushing, they have joined hands with each other.
          We advise our envious rivals to put aside the envy and not to oppose other’s good acts because of their own envy, and if they are fond of competition they should compete with their adversaries in “all that is good.”
          And we expect the friends of our Jihad to abandon creating and widening cleavages among the Mujahideen by bigotry, biases, ill-considered opinions and jumping to conclusions. Our friends should not be influenced by the propaganda of the malicious elements. We expect them to, for the sake of Allah Almighty, judge the attitudes and positions of the Afghan Jihad organizations in the light of their Iman (faith) and thorough inquiry. This will be helpful in avoiding the influence of propaganda, which may result in creating confusions and suspicions among the Ummah, a consequence of which will be to discredit the Mujahideen, may Allah forbid it.
          “For us Allah sufficeth.
          And He is the best Disposer of affairs,
          The Best to protect.
          And the Best to help.
The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
                                                         By Mian Faqir Ahmad.
        The recent uprising in Kabul was a notable happening and we need to examine what difference it made in the Afghan scenario. Although the uprising attempt by Shahnawaz Tanai and his followers has not succeeded in ousting Gen. Najib from power, the event has had definite effects in several areas.
         With the background of the Jalalabad debacle and the superpowers’ collusion, the U.S. had agreed to accept Najib as a “reality”. The U.S.A. had even gone to the extent of proposing to Shevardnadze, the Russian Foreign Minister, that America was ready to recognize the Naj ib regime for an interim period until a settlement could be reached between the PDPA and Afghan Mujahideen. Pakistan too,to the surprise of many, had reportedly accepted the American stance. It all meant that Najib was gradually succeeding in having his regime taken seriously by the world. This was the line of thought on March 6, 1990 when Shahnawaz Tanai, Defence Minister of the Najib regime, began the military uprising which changed the whole scene.
         On March 8,1990 after the uprising in Kabul, US AssistantSecretary of State John Kelly, in a meeting of the Foreign Relations Committee, presented a policy statement which opined that the solution to the Afghan problem could be found only after Najib left power. This was a significant reversal in the recent American policy on Afghanistan and the cause of this change in the US thinking was none other than the dented image of Najib as a result of the uprising. This new shift in the US Afghan policy still persists.
         Pakistan, after the news of the uprising in Kabul, issued a policy statement declaring with renewed vigor its support for the ‘ Afghan nation against the regime’. It also observed that Najib was an obstacle in the way of a political solution to the problem. The attitude of
 theofficial electronic media of Pakistan was also favorable during the rebellion in Kabul. The change in mood of the Pakistan government was unmistakably encouraged by the Tanai-led coup.
         The insurgency in Kabul has also affected the Russian mind and forced the Kremlin to lend a second thought to their already declared stand. It is evident
 from the unusual silence in Moscow on the Afghan issue that they seem undecided towards the situation in Afghanistan. The logic of the events has brought the Kremlin leadership to a crossroads as far as Afghanistan is concerned because military uprising against Najib has damaged his credibility as a successful ruler and his false stability is no longer taken for granted by anyone in the world.
         The military uprising also exposed the policy of the Afghan political organizations to the nation. The AIG parties refrained from supporting the insurgency and termed it a fight between two Communist factions of the PDPA. To them no faction deserved help from the Mujahideen. Eng. Hekmatyar, Amir of the HIA, on the other hand, fully supported the uprising and lent a hand of succor to the Tanai forces. He saw the occasion as a good chance for Mujahideen and urged them to benefit from it. As Gen. Tanai had declared his aim to be the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan with the help of Mujahideen, Hekmatyar utilized the
 moment for the cause of the Afghan Jihad.
         In this perspective it ispertinent to take notice of a recent opinion poll, taken by a groupof free-lance journalists, which has displayed 67% of Afghans refugees in favor of the stand taken by Hekmatyar supporting the forces of insurgency in Kabul. The uprising has had an effect on Afghan politics which will go a long way in influencing the future power structure in that country.
 The attempt by Gen. Tanai has also been very important for its military aspect With several generals and a large number of military personnel broken away from Najib’s ranks, the regime in Kabul has been shaken to its bones. The Parcham-Khalq tussle has intensified in the fields of the Afghan airforce, army and militia. Mistrust and suspicion surrounds the whole governmental machinery, and after the rebellion no one in the establishment is sure of the future of the regime; especially when Gen. Tanai is in the process of making contacts with his friends in the establishment to turn the tables on Najib. The situation is very fluid and anything can happen there anytime.
         Taking into consideration these different aspects of the military uprising we arrive at the conclusion that the Gen. Najib government has suffered politically, militarily and morally. His departure from the seat of power is now generally considered only a matter of time. The internal cancer of the establishment has reached a point of incurability and must be cut out.
 What difference did the Kabul uprising make?
$»>» The Mujahideen , ApnllMay, 1990

^Wrongj^ani^^
       The Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan Engineer Hekmatyar was interviewed by representatives of the Russian news agency Tass several weeks before the March 6 military uprising. This was the first ever meeting of Hekmatyar with the Russian news agency and lasted for three hours in the Amir’s special office. The team of journalists included the head of the political wing of Tass central bureau George M. Shmiliv, professional photographer of the same wing Dimitry Mokolov, and the representative of Tass based in Islamabad Nicolai Semeincov.
        George Shmiliv: Wearethank-ful to you for giving us the opportunity of meeting with you for the first time. We hope you will give our people ^ reason to think over your views on different matters. In our country people are familiar with your name more than any other Afghan leader because you are one of the hardest enemies of the Communist Kabul regime.
         Hekmatyar: I welcome you. I think it is necessary now to enlighten the Russian people of the facts prevailing in Afghanistan. I hope you will convey my thoughts to the people in your country without any modifications. After Gorbachev embarked on Perestroika and Glasnost, the world was waiting for a positive and realistic approach by the Kremlin leadership in Afghanistan so as to stop the war there, but still that has not materialized, and destruction and devastation by SCUD missiles and heavy artillery,etc. is the order of the day. This is because the puppet regime in Kabul is
supported by Russia whose leadership is still interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
         This may be because of the elements advancing the cause of Brezhnev’s unsuccessful Afghan policy. Even though theRussian parliament has condemned the interference in Afghanistan and called it an inhuman act,
to our surprise the past policy initiated by Brezhnev is still practiced. If the Russians can accept antagonism to Communism in Eastern Europe, even in Russia itself, then, in Afghanistan, denial of the people’s right to self-determination is beyond comprehension, especially when Gen. Najib is an illegitimate ruler and has no base in the people. 241 districts out of 282 have been liberated by Mujahideen, and the other districts are besieged by them. The regime has no control over the land and needs to reinforce its army with aeroplanes. By and large. Mujahideen control 90% of the territory of Afghanistan, and the remaining areas the regime faces difficulties in controlling. Russia must stop supplying arms to Kabul. Afghans must have the right to determine their
own future in accordance with their traditions and culture.
         We are surprised over the meetings between Russiaand the US on the Afghan problem. We will never accept an American role in Afghanistan. A Russian compromise with US forZahir Khan’s re-installation in power will be totally unacceptable to the Afghan nation. The Afghan people will not accept an imposed person, and the Russians should take note of it. WRONG CANNOTBE UNDONE WITH WRONG. If Russia wants to compensate for its past, it must leave the Afghans to themselves and stop conspiracies with others on their fate.
Journalist: You seem to reject the recent US policy, don’t you?
Hekmatyar: I do, of course. In addition to America’s, I also reject Shevamadze’s proposals; the point on which both Russia and the USA can agree is to stop interfering in Afghanistan.
         Journalist: Is this your own stand or of the resistance as a whole?
         Hekmatyar: Except for a few Afghan elements who have no relation with the Afghan Jihad, the whole Afghan nation is averse to any American say in our affairs. We, the Afghan nation, warn all the circles aspiring for American influence not to expect any success in their designs. We want to establish a free, independent, non-aligned Islamic Afghan government We will not let any power turn this country into its satellite.
Page 16
                                                                 The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
         Journalist: In my opinion cessation of hostilities should occur and the conditions created for reconciliation. Both the warring factions should start dialogue, because Afghans are dying on both sides.
         Hekmatyar: I say you should speak to the Kremlin leadership to stop the fighting by cutting arms supplies to the puppet regime in Kabul. Yesterday the Russians themselves were killing Afghans but today they are killing Afghans through Afghans. No one is more ready for reconciliation than the Afghans but until we are provided a chance for self-determination and until the puppet regime is ousted, we cannot accept a cease-fire.
         Journalist:
 Unlike the AIG you are against the formation of a Shoura. The Mujahideen in Iran are also against it.
 How can you expect victory with such disunity amongst you?
         Hekmatyar: We are all united in the face of the Kabul regime. We were also united in the face of the Russian troops for nine years and forced them to leave. The propaganda about our differences on minor issues is unfounded. We will succeed in resolving our minor problems. Our differences are our internal problem having no relation with others. Dissent is also present in Russia itself.
         As for our stand, we want free general elections among our people so as to be able to form an elected government. We insist on this issue. Some time ago the representative of Reuter met me. He said that they had conducted a survey in Afghan camps and found that most Afghans wanted free elections and not a selected LouyaJerga. So what we stand for is the demand of the majority of the Afghan nationals.
         Journalist:  You  have done
away with your membership in the AIG. The Mujahideen in Iran are also out of it. Why?
         Hekmatyar:   The   AIG was
formed only for a period of one year. It was agreed that elections would be held within six monthsand within one month this government would be transferred inside Afghanistan. In case this did not
materialize, it was also agreed that the AIG would be considered dissolved. We parted with the AIG for its failure to hold elections. The Iran-based Mujahideen also want elections and elections, alone, are the solution to these problems.
         Journalist: What is your opinion on the future of Afghan-Soviet relations?
         Hekmatyar: It depends on the Soviets. We want cordial relations with all, especially with our neighbors. Moscow should prepare for future relations with us. It should accept our national freedom, sovereign equality and self-determination and compensate for its past blunders. We want good relations with Russia. We may be prepared to honor those agreements which are not against our national interests on the condition that Moscow has good will towards our nation. We want to befriend Russia if it does not interfere in our matters, and if it from now on sends us
tractors in place of tanks ( smile).
         Journalist: Your position on the matter of prisoners in this war?
         Hekmatyar: The prisoners with us are our guests. We wish they could go to their home land and enjoy the warmth of their mothers’arms. But this also depends on Russia. We cannot act unilaterally when war is continuing, thousands are bleeding daily and 40,000 of ours are missing. Their families ask about them, too. So how can we free the prisoners in such circumstances and that also unilaterally. In fact this matter is linked with a package arrangement about Afghanistan.
   On the conclusion of your questions, I would like to take the opportunity to emphasize that you should not be influenced by the false propaganda of the Kabul regime. The Communist Russia spends 400 million dollars monthly on this regime which would be more beneficial if spent on theRussian people themselves. The support you give to this puppet regime has undermined your credibility in the region. Of what use is it for you?
         This regime is destined to collapse, and wasting money on it is of no gain. This regime cannot last for long. Because a nation who rendered sacrifices of 1.5 million lives cannot be subjugated for long. This regime deceives you by propagating that refugees are returning to Afghanistan. Sometimes they speak of Mujahid commanders surrendering to the regime. This is all falsehood. Even at this time the refugees are fleeing to Pakistan from Afghanistan. We invite you to visit safely the refugees camps here and see for yourself and then convey this to all the Russian people.
Page 17
                                                                                                                              Translated by Faqir Ahmad.
                                                                                                                                  The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990

By the RACA subcommittee                                       
  on cultural affair*    Will the Afghans disarm for peace*.   
                                                             i 
      T he recent Russianten-point plan to solve the Afghan problem, unfortunately falls apart with its very first point It is unfortunate, because we would all like to see peace restored, but it is not uncharacteristic of theRussian approach to Afghanistan to totally misunderstand the Afghan people, their culture, and their religion.
         The first point of the Russian plan is “demilitarization” of Afghanistan. For anyone who knows the Afghans, the idea is laughable. Afghans,
be they Pathans, Uzbeks, Tajiks, or of
any other tribe, love their guns. From about the age of 12, they learn to carry, clean,andshootarealgun. Thechildren never play at war, no games of “cops and robbers” for them; they learn to respect the real thing, feuds and battles are part of their family history and often part of their life. Every Afghan over the age of 12 uses a gun. The Afghans had the advantage of "mass preparedness” when the Russians invaded, a fact which the Russians either missed entirely or
thought they could overcome with modem weapons.
         To the Afghans, the Russian invasion was just history repeating itself. The blistering invasion of Genghis Khan in 1220 A.D. is fresh in the mind of every Afghan. As the late Dr. Louis Dupree wrote,” Genghis Khan made history by destroying the finest civilizations of the thirteenth century. He was the atom bomb of his day. “ The mosques and libraries he burned, the cities and canals mined, and the people slaughtered will never be forgotten in the history passed down among the Afghans.
For this reason their sons are always taught to point a gun towards the north when test firing. The Russians may have always longed for a warm port to the south, but what they should have known before, and what they still seem to bang their heads against, is that Afghanistan is not a door to be opened by force.
         The Russian invasion of Afghanistan was not only reminiscent of
Genghis Khan because they came from the north, but because of their brutal and ugly attempt to destroy the culture and religion of the people as well as their homes, fields, and families. AsDr.G.H. Kushan, former Chief of the Afghan Public Libraries, Chief and founding member of the National Archives, and former officer in the Ministry of Information and Culture, describes theRussians destroyed or removed the treasures of the Afghan cultural and historical heritage. They ruined historical sites and monuments in Balkh, Herat, Qandahar, Ghazni, Kabul, Kapisa, Badakh-shan, and Nangarhar with aerial bombardment and artillery fire. Just a few examples include the bombardment of the Arch of Triumph in Paghman, the heavy damage of the minaret and ruins of the tomb of Gauharshad, desecration of the graves of scholars and learned people of Herat, damages to the mosque ofKhirqah Sharif in Qandahar, the Holy Hair of the prophet in Ghazni, the tombs of Sultan Mahmud the Great and Hakim Sanaii - the list goes on and on.
         Parallel to the destruction of these religious and historically important sites, the Red Army has removed the treasures of the Afghan museums. The Kabul Museum which was in fact the national museum, of Afghanistan, was taken over by a special commando unit of the Red Army, transferred to Kabul along with the rest of the so-called “limited contingent” which carried out the coup and assassinated Hafizullah Amin. The same group along with other Russian advisors collected the treasures of the Kabul Museum including objects of ivory and gold, fine jewelry, antique china and fine glassware and packed it into large wooden cases which had been prepared for the purpose. During the night most of the cases were taken to the airport and flown away.
         Other museums raided include Haddah, Ikhtiaruddin Castle and museums in the Central Post Office, the
Page 18
                                                                      The Mujahideen, April!May, 1990
 Ministry of National Defense, the Military University, and the Ministry of Malaria and Leishmania. Rare manuscripts and books from the palace, the public library of Kabul, the National Archives of Afghanistan, and the public libraries of Mazar-i-Sharif, Herat,
 Ghazni, Qandahar and Qunduz, as well as private libraries such as those of M. Naim, and M. Sarwar Nashir were also hurriedly removed by air. The same fate befell the golden treasures of Telia Tapa and Ai-Khanum : removed by the Red Army or by those who were introduced as “archaeological experts and advisors.” Even the texts of the best Afghan dramas were taken away by the Russian “cultural advisors.” Every portable article which could be viewed to have historical or cultural value was taken out of Afghanistan, while mosques and monuments were ruined where they stood.
         We should not be surprised to find that the Afghans now feel that modem weapons like Stingers, and even tanks and bombers, are just extensions of the guns they received when they were a 12 year-old boy; they are just a modem type of gun needed to protect the Afghan resources, families, land, and, most of all, religion. Indeed, what reassurance is there that these weapons are not needed when theRussians continue to use their tanks against Uzbeks and Tajiks across the border?
         At the same time, both the West and the Russians must remember that the doctrine of the Afghan revolutionary-type war was not just national or cultural preservation but the religion of Islam. The duty to protect mosques, Muslim land, and the freedom of religious practice has driven the Jihad to its victorious conclusion. Afghans, not only fought for Islam, but willingly died for the cause. When both the West and the Russians are attacking Muslims around the world, how will the Afghans give up
the weapons that freed them and may also be needed to free other Muslim people to whom Afghans are bound as Muslim brothers?
         It is not hard to see that the Russians would like to have a docile
demilitarized nation at their doorstep, as helpless as a newborn puppy, instead of a fierce freedom-loving revolutionary army, like a lion uneasily prowling for the rest of its supper. Not only are they upset about the violence they believe is currently being exported to their Central
Asian republics, but they also are beginning to see that all their weapons, all the $300 million of military aid per month poured into Kabul over the past year, will soon be in the hands of a popularly-elected Mujahideen government.
         No matter what one would wish, and no matter what promises either side makes, demilitarization of Afghanistan is not going to happen. But that does not mean that there cannot be
peace. The Afghans, knowing so well the capacity of weapons for destruction, also know well the principles of making agreements that provide for a lasting peace. Is it a fair agreement if Russians ask the Afghans to give up their weapons while Russians would never agree to the same? Is it fair that Russians have not only killed and maimed, not only destroyed homes and mosques, not only stolen the historical and cultural treasures,but also ruined the land for production for decades to come by the damage to the canals and orchards, and by the unknown acres of buried mines, and the only compensation they offer is to “withdraw”their occupying army and to “allow” elections?
                                                                                                         Instead of asking for demilitarization of Afghanistan, let the Russians
ask what compensation would be acceptable to the Afghans. Let the Russians rebuild the mosques, return the Afghan museum treasures, provide the maps of mines and the latest de-mining equipment, re-plant the orchards, and re-open the canals, and ensure the religious and human freedoms to people on both sides of the border. Still the scars will remain, still the Afghans will not give up their guns, but then maybe peace will have a chance.
Instead of asking for demilitarization of Afghanistan, let the Russians ask what compensation would be acceptable to the Afghans.
Page 19
The Mujahideen , ApriLMay, 1990
The people of Kunar exercise their right to vote
        The brave people of Kunar, who liberated their province before the Russians had completed their pullout from Afghanistan, decided this year to exercise their right as a free people to vote for a provincial assembly,or Shoura. On March 1, 1990, they flocked to the voting centers and elected their 124 representatives, while maintaining a very cordial and disciplined atmosphere. Both the Kunar residents who were present in the province and those outside the province, i.e. those who were living in the refugee camps in Pakistan, took part in the election.
        The purpose of the election was to unite the people of the province, who are members of some 12 different resistance parties, under one single, elected administration. It was unfortunate that the Afghan Interim Government based in Peshawar opposed the decision of the people of Kunar to hold elections. However, in defiance of the AIG, the election plan was implemented and the election was successfully completed.
        The election plan was based on the method of proportional representation proposed by the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan as a modality for the whole of the country. According to this method, each party sends members to the provincial assembly in proportion to the numbers of votes it receives.
        The successful completion of the election in Kunar demonstrated the feasibility of the HIA proposed plan as well as the practicality of an election itself in the current Afghan society which is tired of imposed rulers.
        The Kunar election was also very important as a pilot project for a countrywide election which has been a point of great debate between the Afghan
 party poliucians, some of whom, not being very popular nationwide, have been opposing the whole idea of an election and prefer selection.
         Another significant aspect of the Kunar election is that it provided evidence against theory that the Afghan people want the ex-king Zahir Khan and will not vote for Mujahideen leaders.
         Theonly difficulty encountered was that the voting boxes fora distant area of Kunar called Kantiwa reached the vote-counting center somewhat late due to heavy snowfall. These votes which were over four thousand were from an area whose residents are members of the HIA. Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman’s party which has a strong presence in Kunar, second only to HIA, contested these votes because of their late arrival and insisted thattheybediscarded. Withtheinclusion of these votes the HIA was over four thousand votes ahead of Maulavi Jamil-ur-Rahman’s party. For the sake of a peaceful settlement of the argument, however, the HIA accepted a proposal that both HIA and Mawlawi Jamil-ur-Rahman should have an equal number of representatives in the provincial Shura.
         There were twelve parties that participated in the Kunar elections. For
 each voting center, a box was constructed so that inside there were twelve smaller divisions, one for each party. Each division had a sign on it, specific to one party, and a slot for ballot deposition. The box did not have a lock; it could be opened only by breaking it. (See picture.)
          The result of Kunar’s voting as reflected by the number of Shoura (Assembly) representatives allocated for each party as follows:
         It is high time that every leader of the Afghan Jihad should learn a lesson from the elections in the Kunar Province. All Jihad parties based in Kunar Province took part in the elections and proved that a multi-party system in Afghanistan can work successfully. The experience gained in Kunar should now be extended to other provinces so that a real representative Islamic government in Afghanistan can be established.
                                                                    0
Kunar election results bv  oarties 
Party leader       Shoura  Percent 
                   Members         
Eng. Hekmatyar     35       28.2%  
Maulana J Rahman   35       28.2%  
Prof. Rabbani      15       12.1%  
Pir Gailani        10       08.1%  
Prof. Sayyaf       05       04.0%  
Maulawi Khales     05       04.0%  
Prof. Mujaddidi    05       04.0%  
Maulana Afzal      04       03.2%  
Maulawi N. Mansoor 03       02.4%  
Qadhi Amin Waqqad  03       02.4%  
M. N. Muhammadi    03       02.4%  
Maulana S. Zaman   01       00.8%  
Total              124     100.0%  
Page 20
 The Mujahideen , Apr ill May, 1990

No Escape From Election
         By Shahpur Afghan
     A. lthough the method of formation of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) did not reflect the aspirations of the sober elements of Afghanistan, it was accepted as a possible temporary method of solving the leadership crisis one year ago. This optimism was based on the declared purposes of the AIG of (1) transferring the central structure of the AIG to the interior of Afghanistan and (2) holding free and fair elections among the Afghans residing in Pakistan, Iran, and the liberated Afghan territories, so as to form an Islamic government to start the journey afresh. Alas! thesegoalsdid not materialize.
         It is apparent that some Afghan elements are afraid of free elections because they want to prolong their undemocratic existence in the form of the AIG. They desire to remain in power through an arrangement which was meant to be temporary,as its very name,
 AIG, indicates. These power-hungry and vested interests are employing various means to veil their unconstitutional intentions.
 For instance, they have encouraged anti-Islamic and anti-Afghan forces to malign true Mujahideen. By such means, they have caused irreparable losses to the cause of the Mujahideen, and they have compelled the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan (HIA), an important and powerful organization, to suspend its membership in the AIG as a protest against AIG’s failure to fulfil the promise of elections. The head of the HIA Eng. Hekmatyar has now gone to the extent of withdrawing his party from membership in the AIG, which he rightly regards as
   In Islam, power lies in the consent of the people. A leader’s legitimacy and authority must be obtained from his own people and cannot be begged from foreign powers.
 an unrepresentative body and not reflecting the wishes of the Afghan nation.
         The stand of the HIA for elections to determine an Islamic government in Afghanistan is undeniably an
 Islamic and democratic one. PirGailani Afandi, Maulawi Mansoor, and the Iran-based Afghans, in addition to all of the leaders of the Pakistan-based Mujahideen parties outside of the AIG, have given their support to this principle. So, what “reasons” does the AIG give to continue postponing elections?
         Some of the leaders say that holding elections in the refugee camps and liberated Afghan territories is impossible. But if distribution of food items in the camps among millions of refugees is manageable, how can holding of polls be termed unmanageable?
   Similarly, if running the administration in vast liberated areas can be made possible, the inability to administer polls there is beyond comprehension.
         Some Afghan leaders claim that elections are an un-Islamic practice. The question should be raised as to what methods such leaders have employed to gain the leadership of their organizations. If they have not used election, have they reached a leadership position by methods of coercion or disregard to the opinion of others in their parties? These methods are clearly un-Islamic.
         Some leaders say that, rather than bestowing the right to vote on the common man, Islam makes it the exclusive domain of some select knowledgeables. On the contrary, the knowledgeables, the scholars of Islam, whom we respect greatly, agree that every Muslim is a vicegerent of Allah on the earth, and Islam is the guarantor of his fundamental rights. For a Muslim leader to deprive a Muslim people of the right to
page 21
WMMMiMwMMMiWMMM The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
express what leader and government they are willing to follow is itself an un-Islamic act.
         Furthermore, when human sacrifices are needed for Islam, those leaders who would not allow the common man to vote make no distinction between the learned and the illiterate, or they may even expect the common man to sacrifice on the front line while they rest in the back. They allow common men to go to battle and face death to obtain an Islamic government in their land, but they would deprive them of the right to choose the leaders of that government. This type of inequality has no root in Islam.
         The great tragedy of the Muslim Ummah (community) has been the transformation of the Caliphate into monarchy. Now it is not the continuation of monarchy but the breaking away
  Power obtained at the price of people's rights is the most hated.
  "Selecting " a Loya Jirga of one's friends or party members who acquiesce to one's rule instead of facing the people in general elections is merely another form of coercion.
from this false tradition which is Islamic. The tradition of the caliphs had been to hate power; in case they were compelled to accept an office, they did so with the consent of the Muslim Ummah. But in some circles the whole concept is upside down. Power is sought through unfair means; the consent of the people is not considered. However, the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, who sacrificed 1.5 human lives to force a superpower from their land, are not likely to accept anyone, even from among themselves, who usurps their right of self-determination.
         In Islam, power lies in the
consent of the people. A leader’s legitimacy and authority must be obtained from his own people and cannot be begged from foreign powers. If one has not committed practices repugnant to the interest of the nation, if one has been true to the people and has fulfilled his promises to them, if one has not betrayed the Jihad, then what should prevent one from facing his own countrymen in general elections. Those who believe in Allah (SwT) and the Day of Judgement should stop their immoral practices and games they are playing with the Afghan nation. In the court of Allah (SwT) each will be accountable for his actions. And there will be no “disinformation” to the press, but falsehood shall be differentiated from the truth. And there will be no cover-up of personal benefits from the sacrifice of others, but every penny gained out of selfish politics will be exposed.
         As for those foreign powers whoclaim to sympathize with our cause, their interference with our right of self-determination is unjustand unwarranted. For their own people they demand democracy, but for us they send robots to rule us. They claim to practice their noble ideals in their own countries, but for the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Afghanistan no heed is paid to ideals and even the UN Charter is trampled under their boots. Their actions show that they do not believe in human rights or justice; their actions show that they only believe that “might makes right”.
         However, power obtained at the price of people’s rights is the most hated. “Selecting” a Loya Jirga of one’s friends or party members who acquiesce to one’s rule instead of facing the people in general elections is merely another form of coercion. The only just and practicable way for the Afghan people to choose an Islamic leader is to hold elections among all the Afghans, whether refugees or those residing in the liberated areas. Any other option will result in peril to our nation, and our so-called leaders shall be responsible for it, responsible in the eyes of Allah (SwT) as well as the Afghan nation.
                            HIA proposes options for the resolution of the Afghan crisis
        Brother Hekmatyar in a recent press conference proposed the following options:
        There are several options to the solution of the Afghan issue:
        1.             Election be held in liberated areas and in the refugees camps. Out of 282 districts and subdistricts which are considered electoral constituencies, 241 districts and sub-districts which are liberated - can send their representatives to a Shoura through election. These representatives constitute 85% of the whole population of Afghanistan. They would frame the constitution and elect interim government.
        2.          Gen. Najib's regime be replaced by an interim administration, being acceptable to the Mujahideen forces. Then election be held under supervision of an election commission with the consultation of the Mujahideen. The Shoura which would come into being as a result of the election, can draft the constitution and elect a government.
        3.          The army take an action and topple the Gen. Najib's regime followed by establishment of a cou ncil comprising of non-PDPAofficers and the commanders of Mujahideen in Kabul. This council should hold elections within six months and transfer power to an elected government.
        4.         Non-interference by USA, Russia and other foreign countries, leading to the negative symmetry, and the Afghans be left to decide whether they want war, negotiations or election.
page 22
         After the March 6th uprising in Kabul the recent history of Afghan Jihad entered a decisive phase. As aftermath there has been a chain reaction in the Afghan scenario. The need for a proper assesment, prompted the representatives of “ The Mujahideen “ to have a detailed interview with Br. Hekmatyar, the Mujahid Amir of HI A, in his offices. The excerpt:
         Interviewer: It was expected that the March 6th military uprising will topple the Gen. Najib’s regime, but itdid not happen so. Now what is your future line of action against the Kabul regime?
         Br. Hekmatyar: In my opinion, the military uprising has caused a lot of benefits to Mujahideen. The high ranking officers and the key elements of the Afghan army in the ground and air forces have given hands to the Mujahideen. The military uprising still enjoys the support of the majority of the Afghan army. The uprising produced a good opportunity for Mujahideen to penetrate the army ranks and establish their influence there. All those officers who were afraid of joining Mujahideen have been assured that they would not be persecuted after joining Mujahideen. It is why we consider the recent uprising a starting point for similar incidents in the future.
         Now the way has been paved for all those officers who are fed-up with the war, hold Gen. Najib responsible for the protraction of the war, do no want to cause more bloodshed, and are intended to join their people.
         Q. You mean another coup in the offing ?
      I assure you of the incidence of similar event in the near future, Insha-Allah. But if we are intended to apply a name for this incident, then we call it army’sjoining Mujahideen, as what took place in Rumania, where the army joined the nation. Defence Minister (Gen. Shahnawaz Tanai) had also said that we are going to establish a more brilliant example than thatof the Romanian army. “Coup d’etat” is a word which is applied on a process in which some army officers, in order to assume power, resort to covert armed attempt against a government. But in case of the officers who have the intent to join their people and want to fight out a regime which is oppressing the nation, “coup d’etat” is not a proper interpretation.
         Q. After the recent military attempt, conquest of more areas where pro-Tanai forces are stationed, including Khost garrison, as well as more defections of the army officers to Mujahideen were hoped. It took a long time but these did not occur, why?
         Ans. Khost and other areas will fall to Mujahideen at a proper time. Around one hundred high-ranking officers have defected to the Mujahideen, which include a large number of General and Brigadiers. We are going to arrange a press conference inside Afghanistan wherein media men will meet them.
         Q. Keeping in view the fact that they have come into Mujahideen fold without doing anything in the Army against the regime, cant we not consider the process as an indicative of their weakness?
         Ans. These are the people who played an active role in the March Uprising. They have either led their under-command units, or inflected other
          blows on Gen. Najib’s regime.
   Those who could remain in the army have not defected. A cautious statistics shows at least 70% of the army officers have the intent to get rid of Gen. Najib’s puppet regime.
          Q. Recently election has once again become a hot topic in media. It was held in Kunar Province. The Mujahideen are working on some electoral schemes, and more recently there were the news about UN-supervised elections plan for Afghanistan. Would you like to say anything?
          Ans. Election is our demand. We believe that the Afghan problem can be solved only and only through elections. Some points must be kept in view in this regard;
          a.          The elections can be held in liberated areas among the Jihad parties as was conducted in the Kunar Province, in which Gen. Najib and his party PDPA cannot participate.
          b.          Holding general elections during General Najib’s rule is not possible.
          c.          There is no need for the supervision of UNO on the electoral
 process,
          d.          The elections will be held under the supervision and auspices of a commission formed by the Mujahideen themselves,
          e.          If the necessity for the supervision of any international delegation was felt by the Mujahideen, then after the consent of all the Mujahid forces, an OIC delegation’s supervision will be acceptable.
          Q. Would you like to comment on UNO repatriation plan for the Afghan Muhajireen?
M The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990    $
         Ans. The repatriation is possible only after the puppet regime is toppled; the war is ended; peace and security are established and an Islamic government is formed in Afghanistan.
         If the repatriation is going to take place before the aforesaid conditions are met, then the following points should be taken in view;
         a.            All the Mujahid forces should reach a consensus in this regard,
         b.            The time for the start of repatriation should be declared by the
Mujahideen,
         c.               The tranquility zones should be specified by the Mujahideen,
         d.            Necessary security actions should be taken by the Mujahideen for the repatriated,
         e.            Joint bodies should be formed to run the affairs of the repatriated.
         Without the consensus of the Mujahideen in this regard, neither the Muhajireen are ready to be repatriated, nor it is advisable for them to do so.
         Q. When the Mujahideen are approached for their future military plans, they usually complain of shortage in weapons. Now, as the time for Spring Offensive is approaching, what do you have to say in this connection?
         Ans. I can say that now we are in a position to achieve our goals withou t using weapons, and we proved it in practice. That is why I declared long time ago that the Kabul regime is doomed to collapse and that a solution to the Afghan problem can be the stoppage of external interferences and arms supplies to Afghanistan, and that the Afghans be left to choose a solution for then problems.
         Q. After the army uprising and the Herat bloody drama there are speculations that the Mujahideen have quit the plan for capturing big cities
through attacks. Would you like to comment?
          Ans. As far as the HIA is concerned, since a long time, just to avoid victimization of the local residents, we have left the plan for capturing big cities by force. Instead we concentrate on besieging cities, cutting Kabul regime’s supply lines and intensification of pressure on military targets.
          Our current strategy is to give chance to the army to topple the regime, and we are trying to conquer the cities from inside.
         Now it is a naked fact that the Mujahideen have turned into a power which can take initiative under the various conditions and circumstances. Now it is an accepted fact that the Mujahideen are in possession of various means to overthrow Gen. Najib’s regime.
         Q. In your opinion what are the motives behind U.S. ’s recent gestural war against drug abuse and Mujahideen’s alleged involvement in narcotics trafficking?
         Ans:     In this regard two
probabilities can be taken into consideration:
         1.           The U.S. may be trying to repeat the Panamanian scenario in Afghanistan.
         2.  the allegedwar against
narcotics can produce a conducive
opportunity for the U.S. to interfere in other countries internal affairs.
         As far as our position regarding drug abuse is concerned, the war against narcotics and drug abuse should be launched in U.S. itself. As long as the mental and physical need for narcotics exists, it is impossible to overcome the drug abuse and narcotics menace.
         Just the other day I was listening to [British Prime Minster] Mrs. Thatcher’s speech in this regard. She also stressed on the fact that until the “demand”for narcotics is not eliminated, it was impossible to succeed in combating it.
         The technology of producing heroine and other narcotics was introduced by the Europeans and the American in Asia. Key gangs of drug Mafia are led by special Americans and Europeans. They encourage the people of Asia for poppy cultivation.
         The people of Asia knew nothing of it, before American and European tourists and death dealers derived heroine from opium.
         Drug abuse and addiction is a disease which was brought and spread by Americans and Europeans to Asia. In fact all social and ethical diseases, AIDS a recent one, were brought to Asia by the Westerners and Americans.
         Anyone who is sincerely determ ined to combat addiction and drug abuse, should begin the war in Europe and in the United States.
Page 24
                                                                 The Mujahideen , ApriUMay, 1990
   THE EAST-WEST COOPERATION A DANGER FOR ISLAMIC WORLD
     The Americans and the Russians are united against Islam, and in Afghanistan they have shown that, concerning their attitude toward Afghan Muslims, they are only two sides of the same coin.
        The main interest of America in Afghanistan was to stop Communist expansion, especially when it was perceived as threatening her interests in the oil trade in the Gulf.
The U.S. had no intention of facing Communism on an ideological front. It was the Mujahideen alone who through their strong and unshakable faith in Islam were able to repulse the determined and well-equipped Communist forces.
No other power on earth had previously been able to face this challenge. From 1919 to 1989, for seventy years. Communist expansion had not been arrested until it was faced with the Afghans’ faith in Islam. Clearly, the Afghans stopped Communism, not because of superior technology or superior war equipment (the Europeans, before them, had modem material yet fell behind the Iron Curtain), but because of their strong faith in their Islamic ideology.
        However, as soon as the American objective was achieved in Afghanistan, i.e. arresting Communist expansion toward the Gulf, they made it clear that they did not want an Islamic government in Kabul due to their bitter experience in Iran. At the same time American opposition to Communism diminished as Gorbachev adopted policies of “Perestroika” and “Glasnost”. So, the U.S joined with the Russians to form a single front against so-called “Islamic
 fundamentalism” and accelerated their propaganda campaign against a government of the Afghans’ choice.
         After theRussian" wi thdra wal ” the Western media began to belittle the Afghan Mujahideen and their victory. The battle of Jalalabad was depicted as their defeat, and Najib’s position was made to appear strong and stable in Afghanistan. The West exploited the
 differences in the seven parties of the Afghan Mujahideen based in Pakistan to make it appear to the world that the Mujahideen woe weak both politically as well as on the battlefield. Moreover they started to work for the establishment of a so-called "broad-based” government which would include both Zahir Khan and the PDPA. This combination was acceptable to both America and Russia because this was the only formula which could deprive the . Mujahideen from forming a true Islamic government in Afghanistan
         However, anyone who believes that the Afghan Mujahideen who have made great sacrifices for Islam would consent to anything less than an Islamic government are mistaken. The Mujahideen may have different views
on certain issues but they are united as far as the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         Although Gorbachev has admitted the failure of Communism in Eastern Europe and has allowed a multiparty system in the Communist Russia herself, the Russians are using a double standard when it comes to the occupied Muslim “republics” and Afghanistan.
The Red Army and its weapons are “preserving” the Communist party rule at the expense of Muslim lives in Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan as well as in Afghanistan.
It can therefore be easily understood that the declared enemy of Communism is now Islam, not Capitalism or the West. Both Capitalism and Communism are linked with one origin which is materialism, both systems refuse to allow religious interference in state affairs and insist on a secular government. Religion is considered a private affair of man and has no concern with the affairs of state. In Islam, on the other hand, religion is given importance in all aspects of life, including the affairs of the state.
         Muslims should be alert to the serious challenge they are confronting from the united front of Communism and the West against Islam. Muslims around the world should unite to support the Mujahideen who willingly would sacrifice their lives for the principles of Islam, for the freedom to live according to their beliefs, and to have an Islamic state in Afghanistan.
                                                                                                                                  Condensed from an article by Z. A. Suleri by Imdadullah
Page 25

      This resolution was adopted on February 27,1990, at a mass gathering of the Hezb-i-Islami in Peshawar, Pakistan. The gathering was called to express support for the Kashmiri uprising and to clarify the position of HI A regarding the tenure of the AIG and foreign interferences in Afghan affairs.
         We are grateful to Allah (S wT) Who is the best of the supporters for protecting our faithful nation in its Jihad and providing victory over the Russian invaders at the hands of our faithful Mujahideen.
         The disintegration of the Communist empire around the globe has been initiated by the epoch-making struggle of the Mujahideen of Afghani-
stan. All the anti-Communist revolts in Eastern Europe, the pre-independence movements in the Baltic republics of USSR, and the uprising of Muslims in the occupied Islamic republics like Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan are the corollary of the military discomfiture of the USSR in the battle-fields of Afghanistan.
        The enslaved nations of the world have been taking inspiration from the Jihad in Afghanistan for the past decade that is why they choose the path of Jihad for their liberation one after the other. Now they are confident that they like the Afghans can challenge the imperialist forces and can gain their independence.
Page 26
         Truly, Allah the Almighty does not nullify the sacrifices of the Mujahideen of His way. He is the guarantor of the final victory of truth over falsehood. He revenges the excesses of the oppressor and comes to the rescue of the oppressed. We have seen that the tyrannical and arrogant governments of Eastern Europe, who used to justify the invasion of Afghanistan by the USSR and supported her puppet regimes in Kabul by arms, advisors and money, all collapsed unceremoniously one after another and faced the retribution of their misdeeds.
         It was because of the role of the Islamic Jihad in Afghanistan and the drastic changes that befell the Communist bloc, particularly, that the US and
the USSR joined hands against the Mujahideen, and through conspiracies they desperately try to prevent the establishment of a government in Afghanistan by the Mujahideen.
        Moscow deals mildly with the anti-Communist movements in Eastern Europe, approves of the ensuing changes there and avoids the use of force to reverse those changes in her satellite states. But the Kremlin does not apply the same policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan. The USSR still supports the puppet regime by supplying it with the most deadly weapons in her arsenal. The flow of SCUD missiles, the latest model of bombers and huge amounts of arms and ammunition continue without any let or hindrance and thus cause the continuation of the bloody war in our country. The Soviet-imposed war in our country leads to the killing of hundreds of innocent Afghans and tens of villages are razed to the ground by the wanton use of heavy artillery and inhumane bombing.
        The Russians are not prepared to accept the same reforms even in the occupied Islamic Republics as they ac-
cepted in Eastern Europe. The regime of Gorbachev sends the army to Azerbaijan,Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to crush the peaceful demonstrations of the Muslims of these republics for the retrieval of their usurped rights. With an iron hand the Soviets break up the ranks of demonstrations by the fire of tanks.
         Washington also like Moscow considers the Islamic uprisings against her interests. That is why Washington approves of the Soviet savageries in the Islamic republics and dubs them as inevitable measures. The US assures all support to Moscow in keeping the integrity of her republics. It is this so-called ‘sympathy’ with Moscow and the US collusion with the USSR on the imposition of Zahir Shah on Afghanistan that has revealed the American antagonism against Islam and any Mujahideen government to rightfully replace thepuppet regime.
         If it were not for the treacherous Soviet-American plots, the Soviet puppet regime would have already been toppled and a Mujahideen government would have replaced it.
Page 27
                                    .A •
                   Speakers at the historical
Br. Z. Muzammil
Br. A. Khenjani

         3-           The foreign powers should just agree on one point; non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, respect for our freedom, independence, national sovereignty and right of self-determination. The Afghan problem must be solved by the Afghans themselves inside the country. If the Russians and the Americans stop interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, if arms delivery to the country is stopped the puppet regime will fall at once. Upon the fall of the Najib’s regime and the holding of elections, the Afghan issue will be solved.
         4-           The committed and Islam-loving elements should join hands and by utilizing the available resources and by better mobilization of their forces inflict a coup-de-grace on the dastardly enemy and thus put a quick end to the war. The basic strategy of the Mujahideen must include the following at this critical juncture of the history of our Jihad: intensification of the siege around the cities, cutting off the supply lines of the enemy forces, pressure on military targets like airbases and other military installations, and anti-regime movements inside the cities. The
Mujahideen must avoid large military assaults on the big cities for their quick take-over. On the one hand, such attacks victimize the innocent civilians inside the cities, and, on the other hand, such attacks require a large amount of ammunition which increases reliance on uncertain foreign aid.
        5-         We must not allow henceforth that our nation is witness to a despotic and unrepresentative government nor allow a few elements to monopolize the rule while the nation remains deprived of the right of expressing an opinion about its own fate. Those who have endured the hardships of this prolonged war and have defended their strongholds under the shower of bombs have the right to form a government or have a say in its formation. We must prove to the world that Afghans will no longer accept an imposed government nor a government which is the handiwork of aliens.
        6-         The government of the six parties on the basis of the following reasons is dissolved and has no right whatsoever to represent our nation or have activities inside the country:
         A- This government was contingent upon holding elections within six months of its tenure and getting a vote of confidence from the elected Shura and shifting inside the country within one month. Unfortunately, it avoided holding elections and failed to shift inside the country and preferred to remain in exile in the rented offices in Peshawar.
         B- The tenure of this government had ended six months ago. Unfortunately with ridiculous justifications they extended it for one year. Now they are making up other pretexts to prolong it indefinitely.
         C- The authority to extend the tenure of the government only rests with a Shura which represents the whole nation. When this authority is given to a few individuals or the cabinet of the government, then no cabinet would ever like to see its tenure shortened no matter how incompetent, failing or disgusting their government is. The removal of such governments will necessitate revolts and the ground will thus be prepared for mischief.
         7-  We appreciate and defend
Page 29
gathering of Feb. 27,1990
 Br. O. Searat
 Br. D. Husaini
 the decision of the commanders of all Mujahideen parties in Kunar Province with regard to consolidating their ranks, setting up a unified administration and establishing an elected Shura on the district, sub-district and provincial level. We consider this as an effective step in the direction of solution of differences.
         8-          We reject the formula of the six parties for convening a Loya Jirgah and the formation of a selected Shura as it is flawed, impracticable, and unacceptable in our view. We insist on holding genuine elections and the establishment of an elected Shura. We will not agree to the mentioned formula unless elections in the liberated areas and among the refugees are guaranteed. If the six parties proceed to bring in selected members to the Shura then we cannot but take a separate decision after an understanding with the other Jihad forces supporting elections. The responsibility for the consequences will rest on the shoulders of those who do not trust their own people, are afraid of elections and do not allow the Mujahideen and the refugees to express themselves about the future government in Afghanistan.
         9-          We strongly condemn the attitude of those Western governments which are for the imposition of Zahir Shah on our nation, have conspired with the Russians in this regard, resort to conspiracies against our Jihad, launch baseless propaganda against the Mujahideen, try to ensure the survival of the regime in Kabul, have resumed their diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime, increase the pseudo-credibility of the regime, send their spies into Afghanistan and employ agents inside the country.
         10-          We strongly support and defend the Jihad of the Kashmiri nation for their right of self-determination and condemn the brutal actions of the Indian government against the defenceless Muslims of Kashmir. We pray that the faithful nation of Kashmir in their struggle for independence succeed and obtain their freedom from Indian occupation and take their rightful place in the community of free nations.
         11-          The Afghan Mujahideen support the developments in Eastern Europe and the uprisings of the subjugated nations of Tajikistan,
Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan. Weconsider the dispatch of force to the occupied Muslim republics and the slaughter of the innocent Muslims there as a brutal, inhumane act and condemn it with the strongest possible terms.
          12-           We consider the hypocritical attitude of the false champions of human rights and democracy vis-a-vis the Kashmir, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan issues where they, instead of defending the oppressed and supporting the just cause of freedom and liberty, supported the enemies of freedom and the tyrannical invaders and approved of the unwarranted slaughter of innocent human beings as an inevitable action, as a shameful stand on their part and a factor revealing their true faces.
          13-           We, in this great and historic rally, once again renew our pledge to-continue our Jihad until seeing Afghanistan free, independent, with an elected Islamic government and we declare that: We will not lay down our arms and not vacate our strongholds until an elected Islamic government at the hands of our Mujahideen is established.
Page 30
memm
The Mujahideen , ApriLMay, 1990
Kashmir Issue
      by Javid Iqbal
      The success that the Afghan Mujahideen achieved in humbling a superpower has encouraged many small nations to challenge the military might of the great oppressors.
         Once the spirit of sacrifice is awakened in any people, no foreign army can control them. Forty years should be considered a sufficient period to come to the conclusion that the Kashmiris will not give up their cause. Trouble will recur again and again. There will be no end to it.
         Currently, life in Kashmir is paralyzed by violence and strikes, national and international press are banished from the scene, and hundreds of people have been killed in army and police actions.
         Incidents at the line of control have raised the number of people killed to over 300 since the government launched a crackdown Jan. 20 on the Muslim separatist movement. The curfews made the harsh Kashmir winter even more arduous and spring brought no reliefto the people. The trucks bringing firewood are stuck on the highways. The towns wear a ghostly look at night. The tourists have fled. Local business has collapsed.
Historical Background
        The Kashmir issue not only has strained Pak-Indian relations for the last 42 years, but has also endangered the peace and security of the South Asian region. The issue is the product of an Anglo-Congress conspiracy, and a direct consequence of the 3rd June plan of 1947, which encompassed the partition of British India into two separate and in-
dependent sovereign states of Pakistan and India.
         In this part of the world, religion has played a great part in shaping the identity of particular regions and their people. The Indian subcontinent had been ruled by the Muslim dynasty for several centuries, butas it weakened and decayed, the subcontinent was gradually subjected to British rule. The British attitude towards Muslims was based on jealousy and fear that they might recapture power. Therefore they were continuously devising plans to keep the Muslims backward both politically and economically.
         For various reasons, the Muslims were not politically active and were discouraged from joining the Congress Party when it was established by a retired British civil services officer,
A.H. Hume, in 1885. Thus the Congress Party came to be dominated by Hindu extremists who treated Muslims with envy and hatred. To protect the rights of the Muslims of India, the Muslims found that there was no alternative except to form their own party, and they finally formed the Muslim League in 1906.
         The idea of a separate homeland for the Muslims was forwarded by the great poet AllamahMuhammad
Iqbal in 1930, and was given practical shape by the Muslim League in its historical Pakistan Resolution of 23rd March 1940. The 3rd June plan of 1947, announced by the last viceroy Lord Mountbatton, decided the future of the two communities. It was envisaged that the Muslim-majority provinces would form a separate state which would be called Pakistan, and the Hindu-majority provinces would make Hindustan. The princely states would be given the right of self-determination to decide their future, whether they would accede to Pakistan or India. In pre-Partition India, the native princes ruled certain parts of the subcontinent called states, e.g., Hyderabad ( Deccan) State, Swat State in NWFP, and Kashmir State which is still disputed.
          India never reconciled herself to the existence of Pakistan; she left no stone unturned to weaken Pakistan. It was, therefore, with this ulterior motive in view, to weaken Pakistan economically and strategically, that the Congress
      / AFGHANISTAN           <
 ' /------------------------------
 / /...................
/                   NORTHERN AREAS
                         AND
                                                                                                                                 AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
 USSR
 l
 CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c*

 Muz8«8rab«JtO(^©&)P0f*                       *
            , Baf8mul8(00Wl’l,arLal<e
 Islamabad    \   Xq
      O       '  .*** ^'ulmar9     Anantnag
      O        \  :                        o
 Rawalpindi   •
            M..
INDIAN-HELD KASHMIR
 Mlrpuf
 PAKISTAN

O Jammu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  \
 Sialkot O \_^.n
 INDIA
\ ^ . < v-
 j

 V.
International Boundary --- 
Border of the Disputed --- 
Territory of Kashmir       
                           
Cease-Fire Line            
Page 31
 leaders, especially Gandhi and Nehru, conspired with the last viceroy of British India, Lord Mountbatton, to delink Kashmir and the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) from Pakistan. Lord Mountbatton, who was personally hostile to the Qaid-i-Azam and against the
 Muslim demand for the establishment of Pakistan, prevailed upon some of the rulers of the princely states to accede to India, while otherprincely states such as Hyderabad and Junagar were forcefully occupied by India.
         As the first practical step to achieve their objective in Kashmir, the Congress through the good offices of Mountbatton secured from the infamous British jurist. Sir Cyrill Radcliffe, Chairman of the Boundary Commission, an award in favour of India in the Punjab, which, in the words of Qaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, was “an unjust, incomprehensible and even perverse award.” As a result, India was provided with a link to the state of Jammu and Kashm ir that paved the way for the most bitter dispute between India and Pakistan.
         When the Kashmiris knew of
     The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990 8©
the intrigue of the Congress Party and Mountbatton, their sole spokesman and only representative political organization, the All-Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Conference, held a meeting at Srinagar on 19th July 1947, and adopted the historic resolution, popularly known
as Accession to Pakistan, whereby it demanded of the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir state to declare the state’s accession to Pakistan. The Maharaja was further warned that if he did not accede to Pakistan, the Muslims who were in a predominant majority would revolt against him and launch a struggle with all the power at their command. The anti-Muslim activities of the Maharaja and the Muslim massacres by the Maharaja’s army forced the freedom-loving Muslims of Jammu and Kashmir to rise in armed revolt against the despotic rule of the Hindu and Dogra Sikh dynasty. They routedout the Maharaja’s armies and on their march to freedom, won victory after victory. By the third week of October 1947, they had liberated more than one-third of the state territory, and on 24 October 1947 had established their provisional revolutionary government the Azad Kashmir Government with Sardar Muhammad
    Ebrahim Khan as President.
             In utter despair and frustration, the Maharaja fled from his capital, Srinagar, and took refuge in Jammu as a fugitive. It was there that, on 26th October 1947, he signed and executed in India’s favor the illegal, immoral, and unconstitutional instrumcntof accession, which V.P. Menon, Secretary of State of the Government of India, had brought from New Delhi. As already planned, but on the pretext of this document, which was based on fraud and violence, India airlifted its troops to Srinagar on 27 October 1947 and sent her forces to other parts of the state. This was, in fact, a naked armed aggression against a people who had been struggling and 7* rendering unprecedented sacrifices for freedom and who had linked their destiny with that of Pakistan. By all canons of international law, justice, and fair-play, Kashmir is both territorially and ideologically an inseparable part of Pakistan.
    Kashmir and UNO
       ______________&
        When India failed to crush the victorious march of the freedom fighters, she invoked Article 35 of the Charter of the United Nations at the doors of the Security Council on 1 st January 1948 with the baseless complaint that Pakistan was the aggressor in Kashmir. Pakistan also invoked Article 35 of the UN charter and filed a counter-complaint in the United Nations against India on 15th January 1948, and exposed Indian designs and the massacre of the Muslims inKashmirandelsewhereinlndia. India eventually faced disgrace and humiliation and was forced to accept a UN resolution for holding of a plebiscite in Kashm ir in a free and impartial manner under the auspices of the United Nations. Ever since then, India has, on the one hand, continued to make pledges to implement the UN resolutions on Kashmir while, on the other hand, she has spared no efforts to frustrate UN initiatives to carry out its responsibilities to make arrangements for the holding of the plebiscite.
Page 32
                                                                  The Mujahideen , April/may, 1990
         The continued reluctance of India to implement the resolutions of the United Nations for the holding of a plebiscite in Kashmir and the ruthless persecution of the Muslims of Kashmir by the Indian occupation forces led the Muslims to rise once again against Indian imperialism. Thus war broke out between the two countries in September 1965. However, the Security Council intervened, and through its resolution of 20th September 1965, brought into effect a cease-fire between the two countries’ armed forces.
                                    Simla Agreement
          Pakistan signed the Simla Agreement with India in 1972 which clearly recognized that the Kashmir dispute must be resolved in accordance with the charter of the United Nations. One point to be kept in mind is that there is nothing in the Simla Agreement by which either Pakistan has given up its rights under the UN Security Council resolutions on Kashmir or agreed to leave Kashmir to India’s mercy. India, however, refused not only to enter into bilateral negotiations with Pakistan for the settlement of this longstanding issue, but also unilaterally violated the Simla Agreement by committing armed aggression in the Siachin area which had been under the effective control of Pakistan since the cease-fire of 1st January 1949.
 Nations.
          The Hindu extremists, on the other hand are committed to have Article of 370 of the Indian Constitution, which gives Kashmir special status, abrogated. After the abrogation of Article 370, the avowed plan is to change the demographic character of Kashmir by turning the Muslim majority in Kashmir into a minority. The struggle of Muslims in Kashmir is thus a revolt against these Hindu extremists who have made their intentions clear to exterminate Muslims from India.
          In spite of all international agreements.India would still like to deny the Muslims the right to their own homeland and insists that all of Kashmir is within India’s legal boundaries. Furthermore, the illegal occupation of Kashmir continues to satisfy India’s desire to cripple the economy of Pakistan and to militarily dominate the whole region. The ninety-five percent Muslim population of the Indian held Kashmir is now out on the streets to challenge the might of the Indian army in what is
The Present Day
         The present Jihad in Kashmir against Indian occupation is entirely a spontaneous and indigenous movement, without the support or backing of any foreign power. They clearly want the Indian occupation forces to be withdrawn from their state and a plebiscite held under the auspices of the United
          The relentless struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen against an aggressor and oppressor encouraged other oppressed and subjugated nations of the world to fight for their just and legal cause. The impact of the Afghan Jihad on other subjugated nations is widespread. The Muslims of every comer of the world e.g. Azerbaijan, Kashmir, etc, are waging the struggle of liberation.
          The Kashmir problem can be seen in the context of the current global movement for liberation. Now it is evident to the Muslims of Kashmir that if a superpower can face failure in its nefarious designs, then the defeat of India should be even easier. Since 1947, Kashmir remained a bone of contention between India and Pakistan, but now is the first time that Kashmiris by themselves have had the vision in such a relentless way.
          The lesson from Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, and Kashmir is that neither Socialism nor Secularism nor any other creed can satisfy the Muslims. Their natural destiny lies in their lives according to the teaching of the Holy Qur'an and the Sunnah of the lastprophet Muhammad (pbuh). Their aspirations can be subdued for sometime but cannot be eroded for all times.
    In both Azerbaijan and Kashmir, the uprising is quite indigenous. Both the Russia and India accuse Iran and Pakistan, respectively, of interference, but without any material proof. This bears a message for all the oppressed nations of the world, that a mouse can roar before an elephant
People in Pakistan showing supportfor the Kashmiri Mujahideen
 regarded as a “do or die” mission.
     Effects of the Afghan Jihad
     The moral support of 1 the entire Muslim population of the world should be extended to the cause of the Azeris and Kashmiris in order to help them in the realization of their goal.
Page 33
                                                                  The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
 The uprising in Azerbaijan
       When the Islamic revolution took place in Iran in February 1979, the slogan of the Allah-u Akbar reached the ears of Azeris. At the same time the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen and their staunch faith to continue Jihad against a superpower encouraged the Russian Muslims to liberate themselves from the clutches of socialist imperialism.
                                                                                                                                     By Javid Iqbal
      The Azerbaijan Republic of Russia, dominated by Muslims, has been the victim of chaos and instability for several months. The Muslims of Azerbaijan are fighting on two fronts, wanting independence from Russia on the one hand, and fighting for their rights from Armenia and Georgia on the other hand.
         When the Azeris established a party in opposition to the Communist party and established their own defence committee, the Russian tanks rolled in, crushing buses and cars to occupy Baku and sinking ships to dominate the harbor. When the Azeris removed the border restrictions between Azerbaijan and Iran so they could meet with their relatives in Iran, the Russians occupied the border points and closed them again, firing on any one who dared to cross. The leaders of the opposition party have been arrested. No journalist dares report the number who have been killed in this occupation by the Red Army. The question arises as to why this is happening, and what will be its consequences. To know this we must briefly review the history of Azerbaijan.
         Azerbaijan was a Muslim state and had been under Persian influence until the Tsar, Peter the Great, developed the expansionist policy of reaching the warm waters of the Gulf and succeeded in annexing Baku in 1723. The Muslims were able to get rid of
 Russian suzerainty after 12 years of laborious struggle, and Azerbaijan became totally part of        Iran.
 However, at the beginning of 19th century, Russia again thought of reaching the gulf, and Tsar,
 Alexandar the First recaptured it in 1813 after eight years of tough fighting with the Azeris.
         Eventually the War of 1914 gave impetus to the Russian masses to revolt against the Tsar of Russia. The Azeris were also encouraged to announce their independence and declare the sovereign status of Azerbaijan. However, other ethnic groups living in Baku opposed independence. They confiscated some area and made an Armenian their chief. Meanwhile the Azeri Muslim state reached on agreement with Turkey, and they jointly attacked Baku and established their government under Fateh Ali Khan. An election was held for a Constituent Assembly on December 7,1918, and the government was formed under Nasib Khan. The Allied Powers gave “de facto’” recognition to the Azerbaijan government in 1920.
          Only two and a half months after this recognition, the Red Army invaded Azerbaijan. The Muslim population was treated harshly and slaughtered indiscriminately by the Communists. One hundred twenty thousand Muslim people including two prime ministers were taken to Siberia. All relationships of Azerbaijan with the Muslim states such as Iran and Turkey were cut off during the S talin era. To disconnect them from their past, the Russians changed their Arabic script first into Latin and then to Cyrillic. During the Second World War when Russia attacked Iran, she tried to spread Communism there. On the intervention of the USA, she withdrew her troops; otherwise she was not in a position to leave Persian Azerbaijan. Stalin and his successors created so much horror and harassment in
Page 34
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
 the hearts of the Azerbaijan Muslims that they were unable to express their grief for many years.
         When the Islamic Revolution took place in Iran in February 1979, the slogan of the Allah-u-Akbar reached the ears of Azeris. At the the same time, the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen and their staunch faith to continue Jihad against a superpower encouraged the Russian Muslims to liberate themselves from the clutches of socialist imperialism. The announcement of political and economic reforms in 1986, i.e., “Perestroika” and “Glasnost”by Gorbachev, increased the expectation among the Azeri Muslims of fairness and reforms.
 The Azeri scholars and writers further aroused the inner sentiments of the Russian Muslims by pointing out to the people how the Communists exploited the Azerbaijani Muslims and other subjugated nations during the last 70 years. The 1979 expenditure for Azerbaijan which is composed of a population of seven million was less than four billion Rubles, compared to a similar four billion Ruble budget for Lithuania which has a population half that of Azerbaijan. The per capita of the Baltic states is 7000 Rubles, while that of Azerbaijan is 1500 Rubles. The salary percentage is 200 Rubles in Russia as compared to 165 in Azerbaijan. Such deplorable discrimination does not match the slogans of the comrades in asocialistcountry like the Soviet Union.
         Apart from economic and social exploitation, the republic of Azerbaijan was divided into autonomous regions with the view to keep them constantly fighting with Armenia and Georgia. The constant fighting of these three states suited Russia because none of the three would be able to think about their independence from Russia, so Russia intentionally created these prob-
lems. Azerbaijan was forcibly divided into two parts. As a consequence of its division, its territory of Nakhjawan fell into Armenian area, and Nagomo-Qarabagh became disputed in Azerbaijan. The people of Nakhjawan have to pass through Armenia and Nagomo-Qarabagh in order to reach Baku. Na-gomo-Qarabagh which is situated in Azerbaijan is heavily populated by Armenians, causing the Armenians to consider it as their own territory. In this way the Russians created a situation for continual ethnic conflict between the Azeris and the Armenians.
        A dispute has also been created between Azerbaijan and Georgia. The
 T urkish race of Azerbaijan speak mostly Turkish language. Russia always has had a fear of Pan-Turkism, therefore she has tried from the beginning to divide the Turks and did not allow an Azeri relationship with Turkey.
         It is beyond doubt that two events have shattered the isolation of the people of the Azerbaijan and helped to reawaken the assertiveness of Russia's Muslims: The Islamic Revolution in Iran and the Jihad in Afghanistan. The Afghan Mujahideen were the first to systematically infiltrate religious and political literature into Central Asia (Western Russian-HeldTurkistan).
         When Gorbachev announced his reforms as a result of the Afghan Jihad, Azeri brothers for the first time discussed their exploitation by Russia.
 They became alert not to allow Armenians and Georgians to confiscate their territories. They believed that the West would support Armenia against them. The situation in Nakhjawan and Baku is more serious than before because the Muslims are surrounded from three sides by Christians. They have no alternative but to get support from Iran and Turkey. That is why they removed border restrictions between Iran and Communist Russia.
          For the Communist Russia, the situation is fast deteriorating. Russians initially consulted with Iran because they were hesitant to strain relations with Iran as they are trying to achieve their interests through Iran which were foiled in Afghanistan, and they want to stop other Central Asian Muslims from revolt againstCo-mmunist Russia. Iran recommended caution but Communist Russia has ruthlessly crushed the Azeri Movement, martyring thousands of Azeri Muslims and indiscriminately injuring thousands more. Azeri Muslims have been dec lared g uil ty of forming an Islamic government . Other republics of Com m uni st Russia, like Latvia and Lithuania, also have demanded their independence, but they were not crushed with the brute forceby Communist Russia which was witnessed against the Azeri Muslims. Maybe Russia understood that installation of an Islamic state in Central Asia would be the end of Russian imperialism and supremacy over other republics.
          Communism is dying its natural death and can no longer be a challenge to Islam. Not Capitalism, but Islam provides the best solution to the problems being faced by mankind. Now it is the duty of every Muslim individually as well as collectively to extend support to Islamic movements in the world.                                 ,—,
Communism is dying its natural death and can no longer be a challenge to Islam. Not capitalism, but Islam provides the best solution to the problems being faced by mankind. Now it is the duty of every Muslim individually as well as collectively to extend support to Islamic movements in the world.
Page 35
                                                                                                                     by: Wahdat
     rJhe sacred and liberating religion of Islam reached the Indo-Pak subcontinent under the brilliant command of a youthful and courageous 18 year-old Muslim commander Muhammad ben Qassem. That energetic commander carried with him the message of Islam which is the liberator of humankind, the guide to light from darkness and the path to grandeur from humiliation. This message, which is in complete harmony with human nature, entered the ears and occupied the hearts of the people to such fullness and depth that neither the Genghis’ Yasa nor the British iron fist could remove it. Thirst, h unger, torture, death, and the ideologies of Buddhism and Communism were also unable to compel it to surrender.
        In the wake of World War II, hopes of liberty and independence were sparked in the hearts of the inhabitants of Mawara-un-Nahr (Transoxiana) but Chinese and Russian Communism dashed these hopes to the ground by the force of the “Sickle and Hammer” and deprived them of their inherent rights. The ideology of the people received the first blows at the hands of Mao because it was considered the backbone and the main spirit of the resistance. But as human nature is the concomitant of humankind, so religion is also an inseparable part of human nature. The name of Allah (S wT) will be hummed as long as life is in existence in Turkistan. Islam has survived in Eastern Chinese-Held Turkistan despite the dominance of the blood-stained bayonet of Yellow Communism as well in Western Russian-HeldTurkistan where itnotonly survived but is also steadily progressing.
        Although the name of Eastern Turkistan was changed to Xinkiang by the Chinese Communist rulers, the
people still call it “Islamic Turkistan.” Eastern Turkistan is still predominantly Muslim despite the unparalleled atrocities which it suffered during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. The lovely cry of Allah-u Akbaris still reverberating from the minarets of the mosques in Kashghar, the capital, and in the rest of the Chinese-Held Eastern Turkistan. It forms the largest and the most strategic of China’s five provinces. It’s width is nearly five million square miles, five times larger than Pakistan.
        Eastern Turkistan forms a pan of the “roof of the world” and has common borders with India, Pakistan, the Russian-Held Western Turkistan and Afghanistan. It is forming a vital link between China and Central Asia. Its inhabitants include Turks, Uighurs, Qazaqs, Uzbeks, Taj iks, Tartars, Chinese and Russians. The people of Turkistan are Muslims, and 98% of them are Ahl-i-Sunnah wal Jama’ah, and a few Isma’ilites.
        The main mine resources in the region include petroleum, gold, silver, brillium, latinium and iron with larger unextracted underground reserves. Due to the vital importance of the region, the Chinese rulers have stationed their atomic and aeronautic plants and centers in this province. Yarqand and Khuttan, due to their important strategic positions, serve as China’s main military bases from where China can easily threaten Afghanistan, Russia, Pakistan and India at the same time. Tashqurghan Peak is 12,000 feet high and is also an important military base.
        Khuttan and Kashghar’s ancient rich literary heritage reminds us of Islam’s grandeur and supremacy in Turkistan. Turkish is the language of Turkistan which is comprised of 35% Arabic and Dari words, displaying its
 deep and old links with the Muslim world. The first Turkish dictionary was compiled in Eastern Turkistan, and the study of Mawlana Jalaluddin Balkhi’s Mathnawi is still popular there, which is indicative of the influence of Islamic literature. Islamic culture, architecture, arts and civilization still dominate the Chinese modem civilization. Chinese engineers still constructbuildings on the Islamic pattern of architecture. The minarets and domes overlooking the cities do not mean that these cities are full of mosques, but it is a manifestation of the influence and supremacy of Islamic architecture in China.
        Communism, in spite of its deceptive slogans, has not brought any good for Eastern Turkistan. Mao and Maoism failed to unite the people under a single banner. Uighurs are still proud of their history, culture, ideology and motherland and even of their muddy old huts. Correspondence, sign-boards and informal letters are now all written in Uighuriand in Arabic script. Indigenous names are applied to everything, and foreign, i. e. Chinese names are gradually being abandoned. All subjects are taught in Uighuri in the schools. Donkeys and donkey-carts are the main vehicles of transportation. In Khuttan’s main parks and squares, under Mao’s huge statues which were erected as the symbol of progress, donkey-carts carrying passengers show what Communism has offered the people; one cannot see a single car passing by. In Kashghar, the capital of Turkistan, you cannot find even 10 cars. Communism’s gifts to the people of Eastern Turkistan have been hunger, prison, torture and indiscriminate massacres.
        In Chinese-Held Eastern Turkistan, religion isa living spirit which ignores the geographical boundaries and links the hearts and minds of its
Page 36
inhabitants with the hearts and minds of the Muslims of the other parts of the world. The forty-year-long Communist rule failed toeliminate the religion which survived even the long oppression of ten years of Cultural Revolution. It is amazing how bravely they faced the days of the destruction of their mosques by the bulldozers and tanks of Mao’s Red Army. During the Cultural Revolution, the mosques’ gates were gutted. But when some years ago the Chinese government was forced to declare civil liberties, new gates and doors were ordered to be made for the mosques which had been turned into nightclubs, cinemas, Communist propaganda centers and stables by Mao. Islam proved to be everlasting and finally the mosque-turned barrooms and stables were re-changed into mosques
         Al-Hamdulellah, now there are more than 200 mosques where the Muslims pray five times a day with their faces towards Makkah. Friday prayers are offered in those mosques and the imams use loudspeakers for their sermons (khutbahs) with about 75% of the Muslims in attendance. Since 1980
Eid prayers are also allowed to be offered in these mosques.
         Many Islamic books arc available at book stores.Hajj movies attract large gatherings in Turkistan’s bazaars. Islamic literature is usually brought in from Pakistan. Prayer-rugs, beads and calendars in Uighuri are available in the bazaars. Audio-cassettes containing recitation from Qur'an-e-Hakim by world-famous Qari the late Abdul Basset are available everywhere.
         The hearts of Turkistan’s people beat with the hearts of the rest of the Muslim Ummah. Afghan Jihad is regarded as a minaret of light there. Pictures of Shahecd Gen. Muhammad Ziaul Haqq are hanging in every house, shop and street. They call him “Martyr of Islam” and unintentionally using his name without the word “S haheed” angers them.
         During the Cultural Revolution a grey colored uniform was required, but now every one is free to put on clothes of her/his own choice. People are putting on their Islamic and traditional
                                                                        Page 37
clothes. You will not find a single Turkistani Muslimah bare-headed. They are going to the bazaars and to the factories, but in their full Islamic dresses. Chinese women put on stockings, but Mao’s iron fist failed to compel any Muslimah to put on stockings.
         Islam, the Islamic culture, and the Muslims survived the unparalleled atrocities by Mao, but unfortunately this part of the Muslim world has been forgotten and ignored by the rest of the Ummah. Nothing has been published regarding the events and developments in Eastern Turkistan, and few contacts have been established with Eastern Turkistan. Very little is known of what they have suffered since 1948 when Mao took over.
         By visiting this area as well as establishing cultural and literary contacts, Muslims will see an example of how steadfast faith has sustained the Ummah during 40 years of adversity and will bring the blessing of unity in Islam to both sides of the border. Insha-Allah.
                                                                                                                            Translated by Hamed
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Islam in Uganda
by Abdullah
       Islam was the first monotheistic religion to approach Uganda. It was brought by Arab traders before the colonization of the British of the region. When Christians came to explore East Africa, they found Islam already in existence. They sent Christian missionaries to the region who set up strong bases for unity, education, health, and worship. While they were paying attention to the future generations of Ugandans, the Muslims failed to educate their young people, even in their religion, and the Muslims remained few in number, seeing no future for themselves.
         With the regime of Milton Obote, from 1981, the Ugandan Muslims were slaughtered and driven from their land. Their lives continued in hardship until the takeover of Yoweri Museveni in 1986 when he announced the equality of religions in the country and appointed some Muslim ministers to his cabinet.
         Muslims began a renewal in Uganda at this time, and their first task was to forge unity. The new government policy allowed the Muslims to strengthen themselves fearlessly. Their second task was to spread the message
of Allah (SwT) in their society because even many Muslims were ignorant about their religion. Already their work has achieved some success as is evident by the following:
          provocative act against the Muslims and the Palestinian people was the passage of a resolution by the U.S. House of Representatives on April 26, 1990, to recognize Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel, confirming the Senate’s resolution of March 22. It is unfortunate that the U.S. Representatives caved in the Zionist lobby in the U.S. and passed this resolution without debate in a remarkable two days.
One must remind them that they should be representing the American people rather than the Zionist lobby.
         The resolution violates the international stand considering Jerusalem as an inseparable part of the
1. The increasing number of veiled Muslim women.
2.  The crowded mosques daily in every town.
3.  The conversion of youths daily in all parts of the country.
4.  The rapid construction of new schools and mosques and the willing donations and assistance of fellow Muslims in the country.
         This evidence has created some alarm among the non-Muslims in the country, and they have started planning and plotting how to protect their young people from the Muslim influence. This is quite a change from the attitudes just five or six years ago.
         Still, for the Ugandan Muslims, ignorance is the worstdisease. The Muslim Ummah plans to continue to work on their tasks of unity and spreading the message of Allah (SwT). May Allah (SwT) send His blessings to those who follow his course.
occupied Arab territories. As such, the passage of this resolution is very provocative not only to the Arab countries but to the Muslims around the globe. It certainly has complicated the Middle East crisis, sending contradictory signals to those working for peace in Continued on page 49
PALESTINE AND THE US CONGRESS
                                                              Page 38
                                                                 The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990

                 THE COMMUNIQUE OF HEZB-I-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN (in relation to Herat incidence)
         The Executive Committee of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) in an extraordinary session on April 8th, 1990 convened with respect to the April 6th epoch-making event in Pashtoon Zarghoon district of Herat Province, decided that the families of all those Mujahideen martyred in this victorious operation must be rewarded in the best possible way for the unprecedented chivalry of their sons. Each Mujahid should be awarded posthumously with a medal of pride which is awarded to those Mujahideen who evinced marvellous excellence in the performance of Jihad activities. In addition to this their names would be recorded in the Book of the Glorious Heroes of Jihad.
         The regime had wanted to show that the so-called process of reconciliation was making headway successfully, particularly after the March 6 army uprising which had in fact shattered the morale and prestige of the regime. The importance of such an event had become paramount for the regime because they desperately needed to dispense with the hang-over of the jolt which the army had inflicted on it and to show that the situation had returned to
normalcy.
         Our brave and faithful Mujahideen managed to nip the conspiracy of the enemy in the bud with their timely and revolutionary action and proved to the world that the Mujahideen have the capability to foil any plot hatched against the Jihad and to punish the traitors.
         The Executive Committee of the HIA advises all the Jihad forces to be extraordinarily cautious in elections of commanders and other posts in the Jihad fronts and take such measures to preempt the penetration of moles in their ranks who would one day damage the fronts from inside and thus bring bad name to the Mujahideen and the Jihad in general.
         At a time when batch after batch of the military officers are joining the ranks of the Mujahideen, the Jihad forces must notallow traitors to penetrate their ranks who will later on join the demoralized Russian-installed regime and thus delay the process of the surrender of the army to the Mujahideen and the collapse of the moribund regime of Kabul.

No Human Rights in Afghanistan
           Political murders are a common
                                                        By Faqir Ahmad
        According to “US Department of State Annual Human Rights Report(1989)”, Human Rights conditions in Afghanistan have never been good, but in 1989 when Gen. Najib regime declared state of emergency on 17th Feb., 1989 the situation has been worse. As the US embassy in Kabul was closed in Feb. 1989 this report is based on the complaints of Afghan citizens. This year in Afghanistan violations of human rights have been at the peak.
place matter and are committed invariably. In prisons political opponents are hanged extra-judicially or after summary trials with the chance of no legal defence.
         Disappearance of persons from Kabul and other cities is rampant. People disappear mostly as a result of the fear of impressment into military services by the regime. The regime’s agents also kidnap dissidents and later kill them in deserts or exile them. The Kabul
authorities are also involved in torture and cruel treatment given to political opponents. They are tortured by electric shocks, long sleep deprivation, beatings and immersion in water practised in prisons and forts.
        Political dissidents are frequently arrested without show of warrant of arrest  They are kept
incommunicado even for years having no legal facility to question the legality of their arrest About 3000 political prisoners are kept in jails including Pul-e Charkhi prison.
        After the declaration of emergency the state of the right to privacy of family is more deplorable. Telephones are frequently     tapped and
correspondence censored.
        There is no freedom of Press and speech in Afghanistan today. Radio andTVare only govemmentpropaganda machines. Afghanis are always guarded when speak lest they might involve themselves in a difficult situation. Western radio transmissions are always jammed but sometimes they do get through.
         There is also no freedom of peaceful assembly and association in the country. No free trade unionism is tolerated in the footsteps ofCommunist Russia. PDPA has monopoly on power which is against the ideal of democracy.
         According to observers forced labour is also prevalent in the country and labour condition in factories is unsatisfactory as there is no freedom of strike and bargain.
         In Afghanistan of today there is also no guarantee of the right to property. Homes and property are often confiscated by the regime on political grounds. Cases in this respect have been witnessed by several individuals who are residents of the country but have requested not to be named in public. The prospects of improvement in human right situation in Afghanistan seems bleak; at least uptil the time the present Najib regime lasts.
Page 39
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
msm
MHI
                                                     By F. Kakar Fh. D.
     In the Western experience, the system of government, or for the matter, even social justice, has a clearly evolutionary path starting from the Dark Ages. The current Western-style democracy has evolved after ages of autocratic and repressive systems. Because of this, in the Western view, those who seek to have past systems re-installed seem backward and barbarian and are derisively called “fundamentalists.”
 “Fundamentalism” is defined as “a movement within any religion or system towards the fundamental doctrine out of which the religion or system has grown.”
        In the Muslim collective experience the system of government or social justice which began in the 7 th century A.D. has not taken an ascending evolutionary path to become better over the centuries. On the contrary, the system of government together with social justice in the Muslim experience has followed, in general, a retrogressive path. The caliphate retrogressed into monarchy and familial governments.
        During the time of the caliphate, the consent of the governed was absolutely required for the legitimacy of the ruler. Among the two candidates Hazrat 'Ali and Hazrat'Uthman, the latter was chosen to be the caliph by a method of election. Thus, for
a Muslim, looking to the past system is to look to an era that was better and more progressive than what exists. The Western minds, however, because of their orientation and view of their societies’ former governmental systems have a totally different picture of the past as compared to a Muslim. For this reason, in the Western view, “fundamentalism” has a negative connotation, while, for the Muslims, the same word means “seeking the enlightened past.”
This misunderstanding by the Western mind presents a dilemma to them when they hear a Muslim leader such as Hckmalyar, known to the West as a “fundamentalist,” energetically seeking elections as the only solution for the current Afghan political problems. In their minds’ eyes, fundamentalism does not mix with modern electionism, not knowing that electionism is part of the Islamic heritage.
       By placing people in categories such as “fundamentalist”, one runs the risk of falsely attributing category characteristics to individual personalities, and, when the category furthermore has different cross-cultural connotations, it certainly seems that it is no longer useful as a category and should not be applied.
 Afghan -Jihad leaders most often referred to in the Western ; ^ media as
 " fundamentalist s/r From the left, BnSayyaf,
 Br. Khalisand Br.Hekmatyar
Page 40
  Who Stands Where?
                                                               By Faqir Ahmad
         ow that one year has elapsed since the so-called withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan the situation in that country is still unresolved. The Russians lost their Afghan War, but left behind an imposed regime headed by Najib, and the Afghan nation is still far from having peace. Who is to blame for this? Both internal struggles and outside influences have been playing a role.
         In February one year ago, the seven Pakistan-based Afghan parties succeeded in selecting an Afghan S houra or Council from which an interim government emerged. This government had the responsibility of holding free and fair elections, but they have not held them yet although their term is up. Their recent proposal to put in place a body selected by Afghan elders who are selected by the party leaders from each district does not answer the need for elections to provide legitimacy to the government. It is unlikely that their formula would establish a government which would be acceptable to the Afghan nation as a whole.
         In the world today, the problem of legitimacy is confronting the one-party Communist style regimes and
 monarchies as well as the dictatorships. What kind of legitimacy does the recent Afghan Interim Government (AIG) formula offer? Should the sacrifices of millions of Afghans be bargained off for a system rigged to keep the present leaders in power? The reply is an emphatic “No!” The sacrifices of millions of Muslims for their beloved land were not for the cause of some local elders but for
the freedom of Afghanistan with its destiny to be determined by the Afghan people themselves.
         This internal disagreement about the question of elections or selections is complicated by outside powers who feel they have a stake in Afghanistan and would like to influence its future.
         Muslims are a peace-loving Ummah and so are the Afghans. At the same time, they know how to respond to those who invade their soil, snatching their land and killing and wounding their people. If it were not for the fierce
response of the Afghan Muslims, the Russians would not have withdrawn their troops from Afghanistan to a level lower than the troop levels in East European Bloc countries. Because the Afghan Muslims continue their fierce Jihad against the Afghan Communist regime which is heavily supported by Russians should not imply to the world that Afghanistan is a permanent danger to
international peace and harmony. This is a grave mis-conception about the Afghans which is causing unwanted outside interference.
         On the one hand, the Russians are determined to keep a tight grip on their regime in Afghanistan to try to maintain their control of their south Central Asian republics and prevent the succession from the Union by these republics who are all in the midst of nationalist uprisings. However, military oppression and intransigency in keeping Najib’s regime in power while denying the Afghan people the right to choose their own government does not
Is he a hard-liner because he is the only person condemning the philosophy of selection rather than election, the continuation of kingship and the tribal feudal power structure?
Page 41
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990

Eng. Hekmatyar meeting with elders inside Afghanistan

convince the world or the neighboring republics of the Russian “openness” or good intentions towards their Muslim population.
         On the other hand, the United States is also hesitant at the prospect of a free Af-ghanistan,exposing their duality of character and thcdouble standard maintained by the superpowers towards Muslims. The US wanted the Soviet forces out of the country but they did not want a free nation. They aspire for an Afghanistan neither occupied by Russian troops nor the master of its own destiny but something in-between. What is “in-between” is an Afghanistan, not singing their own tune, but dancing to the tunes composed by American masters. The Americans also have the idea that they could settle their international disputes with the Russians on the price of Afghan land.
         So, with these ulterior motives in view, they are ready even to sacrifice their own ideals of democracy. They are ready to welcome Zahir Khan and impose the old feudal istic structure on the Afghan people. They befriend such elements in Afghanistan who stand for monarchy, religious dictatorship, and tribal existence. They do not mingle with people who stand for free elections in Afghanistan. Even Gen. Najib is preferred to such just and really democratic elements among the Afghans as Hekmatyar of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan who stands for an elected government not less democratic than in the US itself. And, why is Hekmatyar condemned by the US? Because he commits the “sin” of wanting Afghanistan to be a free nation, free from outside influence and free inside from the clutches of monarchy, of feudalism, and of a religious dictatorship.
         The irony of the situation is that the Western media always calls Hekmatyar “a fundamentalist” and a “hard-liner” while they attach to the monarchists, feudalistic tribal elements, and religious hierarchy of “peers” the symbols of nationalists, moderates, and democrats. What is the Western criteria for nationalism, moderation, and democracy? Are they nationalists because they agree to an unjust superpower influence in Afghanistan? Are they moderate because they are ready to compromise their national interest? Are they democrats because they want to impose a selected Shoura on the Afghan people, and they accept ZahirKhan as a king and a tribal feudal structure as their social system?
         Is Hekmatyar fundamentalist because he is the only political leader cherishing free and impartial party-based elections? Is he fundamentalist because he negates the principle of a permanent role for Pirs (religious leaders) in the governmental hierarchy? Is he a hardliner because he is the only person condemning the philosophy of selection rather than election, the continuation of kingship and the tribal feudal power structure? Is he a hard-liner because he thinks every Afghan national, of high or low class is entitled to the right to vote?
         Perhaps he is not “moderate” because he knows the difference be-
tween moderation and compromise on national interest and is not inclined to compromise. Perhaps he is not considered a “nationalist” because he is the enemy to superpower influence in Afghanistan.
         We are duty bound to discern the true perspective of things, the relationship of people and events in our society, and not to be misled by false names and symbols which are symbols alone and nothing more The Hezb-i-Islami is a true Muslim Afghan organization which will not compromise on Afghan and Muslim interests but which welcomes friendly relations with all the nations of the world on the basis of equal sovereign status and non-interference in the internal affairs of other nations.
         The Hezb-i-Islami and its leader are not a danger to the free world, but, rather, they are demanding the same rights demanded by the free world, the right of self-determination, of holding free and fair general elections under the principle of “one man one vote” tochoose a leader for a fixed term, and of having an elected assembly to enact and enforce a constitution and law which uphold the ideals of justice , democracy, and freedom, the same ideals of a true Islamic society.
         To let the Afghan nation freely determine its own future is the only way out, the only path to lasting peace inside and outside Afghanistan. To seek other solutions or to experiment with mechanisms other than elections will definitely result in a series of never ending upheavals. The single road to peace and happiness is through the consent of each and every Afghan, because each and every Afghan has been awakened to his political rights by his Jihad, his struggle for his rights and his freedom.
Page 42
                mm                                The Mujahideen , AprillMay, 1990
Wheat empty silos, ammunition full arsenals
                                                                   by Wahdat
      Eom a geographical point of view Afghanistan is a mountainous country. Until the 70s, one of Afghanistan ’s major imports was wheat, even though almost all the people were involved in agriculture. In the early 1970s Afghanistan witnessed some increase in wheat production, but from 1978 on, this underdeveloped semi-agricultural and unindustrialized country has turned into a destroyed country. The production process has come to a dead halt. Due to the continuation of war, lack of production, issue of black currency, and increase of salaries of the officers and soldiers of the puppet regime’s army, inflation is at the highest peak in the country’s history. It may be possible that the volume of money will be equal to the volume of goods very soon.
          As a direc t consequence of war nearly forty percent of agricultural lands and irrigation systems have been destroyed. Before the war 355,000 acres of agricultural lands were being irrigated by drains, springs and rivers, while about 12 thousand acres were being irrigated by waterwheel.A high percentage of farmers and land owners have been forced to leave the country or take shelter in the mountains. After the migration of more than five million and martyrdom of more than one million, there are about ten million living inside Afghanistan. Around two million people lost their houses and became refugees in the far areas inside Afghanistan, which has decreased the agricultural product to its lowest degree. The annual growth of wheat in Afghanistan is sufficient for only five million and the remaining five million are deprived of their life’s primary necessity, i.e. bread. Even though 500/000 tons of wheat is imported through different
routes, the price of wheat has increased seven times in villages (500 Afs.) and in the cities fourteen times (1000 Afs.).
         Therefore in the reconstruction process in Afghanistan, restoring the production of wheat is of vital importance. Urgent actions must be taken to reconstruct the destroyed and damaged drains, rivers, streams, canals, springs, dams and wells. As ninty percent of the farmers were using bulls for ploughing and other agricultural needs, a recent adequate assessment shows that two hundred and fifty thousand pairs of bulls are needed to take the wheat growth to the pre-war rate. The rehabilitation and weeding of the agricultural land, the continued struggle against natural calamities, and the improved use of insecticides and fertilizers are certain priorities for the farmers.
         When the Red Army invaded Afghanistan, it was carrying banners saying “clothes, bread and housing for the poor” but after 12 years of imposed rule, the Afghans are stiil striving more than ever for bread, clothes and homes. At the same time, the Russians instead of sending foodstuff to this hunger-stricken country are actively supplying arms and ammunitions at the rate of 1,600 tons of fatal weapons daily to the starved Afghans.
                                                                         o
Page 43
              The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Famine kills 25 in Northwest of Afghanistan
                                                        tiy Hauled
        Reports of eyewitnesses suggest as many as 25 persons were killed as a result of famine and disease in Faryab province in northwestern Afghanistan, in February 1990.
        To investigate this news, RACA interviewed two residents of Faryab province who had recently arrived in Peshawar. Following is the text of information which these two persons, Br. Habibullah s/o Jan Merza and Br. Soufi Afzal s/o Khaleqdad, who are the residents of Qara-E village of Almar (Qaisar) district of Faryab province, could give:
        They said one week before setting out for Peshawar they heard in their village that 25 members of five families had died in Yangi Qal ’ah village of the Qaisar district because they had consumed Kunjara, an animal food, due to the extreme shortage of human food.
        In many parts of Afghanistan people usually extract sesame, mustard, flax and cottonseed oil and use it for cooking. The scum of sesame is called Kunjara (oilcake) which serves as the main food for animals and cows in particular. Feeding the cows with a large quantity of oilcakes causes swelling in their bellies, which can easily result in death. Oilcake is not for human use, but people of the area, due to the shortage of wheat and barley, make a mixed porridge-like food which consists of 1/3 of oilcake and 2/3 of wheat/barley flour. This mixture is eaten just to avoid starvation. But when the aforementioned proportion is changed and oilcake exceeds 1/3 of the mixture, it becomes fatal. After eating such a food, the belly

begins swelling and death results.
         The main reason for this famine, apart from draught, is that the province has been suffering from wheat blight and locusts. The harvest had been decimated by locusts and by the blight, caused by an insect called Kafashak or the sun pest ( a weevil-like insect). So
far no technical effort has been carried out to combat these pests, and the area has fallen subject to rapid and uncontrollable devastation.
         Habibullah and Soufi Afzal maintained that three years ago locust and Kafashak attacked the Russian-Held Tajikistan, and as a result of the Russian “effort” against these pests they moved to the neighboring Afghan province of Faryab. Since that time people of the region have not been able to raise their crops.
         Referring to the severity the infestation by these two pests, Br.
Habibullah and Br. Afzal said that under each stone and lump of earth one could easily collect three to four kilograms of locust and Kafashak.
    Relating one of the initiatives taken by the Mujahideen to combat this insect invasion, they said that Arbab Hafizullah, Mujahideen Commander-in-Chief of Almar District, declared that he was ready to pay Afs.\4,000 in exchange for each Sayr (equivalent to 7 kilograms) of locust and Kafashak. Then the Mujahideen dug some deep wells, and so far eight wells have been filled in with eggs and Kafashak.
        Br. Saleh Muhammad, Almar Mujahideen’s representative in Peshawar, said that he himself had witnessed three persons who collected
eggs and Kafashak, and without washing
their hands had taken their meal, were poisoned and instantly died on the spot.
         Arbab Hafizullah also reserved
130.000   Sayrs of wheat in a depot, of which he had so far distributed some
70.000    sayrs among the people on debt. “Under the existing conditions neither can the people afford to purchase wheat or barley, nor do the Mujahideen have anything in their reserves or depots,” Bro. Saleh remarked.
                                                                                                               During the past three years merchants of the area usually brought grain from Mazar-e-Sharif of Balkh Continued on page 47
Page 44

The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
Jihad, not vengeance
                                                                By I bn Abayomi
      The situation in Afghanistan needs a new understanding from an Islamic perspective. This becomes very necessary in view of the fact that many today still find it difficult to define their objectives. The purpose of J ihad is not just to win a war but also to build a nation. Defeating an enemy, without reconstructing the society is nothing but “a conflict of ego.” Therefore, in wining the war, minimum destruction should be inflicted so that the next phase of re-construction will not be too tedious if not impossible. For any nation to progress, its citizens must feel collectively a sense of belonging. This is only when each individual will put in his or her best by sacrificing his rights and pleasures for the good of all. But if, for one reason or the other,some members of a community are denied the opportunity of having a sense of belonging, no merit can be expected from them. Rather they will form a clique that will pose the greatest threat to the entire society. What is required of Gen. Najib is to step down and flee. This will without doubt put an end to the present sufferings of millions within and outside Afghanistan. In case Gen. Najib refuses to relinquish power, but some of his lieutenants are prepared to repent of their past, then their services should be utilized to oust Gen. Najib.
         Yes,it is true that the Afghan Muslim nation has indeed sustained the worst atrocities at the hands of Gen .Naj ib and his former colleagues. But Allah consoles the wronged with His reward, and the repentant wrong-doer also with His mercy. The sole condition is that
both the injury and repentance must be for Allah and Allah alone. Allah is the most Merciful all Gracious. No matter how deep a man is a wrong doer, the mercy of Allah is greater. Allah says :
 “Tell my worshippers have wronged their own souls that they must not lose hope of Allah’s mercy. Allah forgives all sins. He is indeed the oft Forgiving most Merciful” (Az-Zumar 39:53) The religion of Islam is intended to be a mercy to the worlds and nota vengeance on its seekers, a succor to humanity and never a calamity on mankind. Islam sends its message of hope and bliss to all men irrespective of their crimes, in as much as they repent and reform themselves.
          This was how in the beginning Islam recruited the best brains and enlisted the service of the most competent hands. There was ’Umar ben Khattab, known by all inMakkah for his atrocities against the young Muslim community.
He was an enemy of Muhammad (Peace be upon him) and an adversary of his mission vocal in opposition and ruthless in persecution. But the door of repentance was kept wide open for him. Umar entered and infidelity crumbled behind him. Islamic history took a new turn and in his time Islam crossed the Arabian Peninsula to become a global force. Khalcd ben Walid was another. Thirteen years in Makkah, he spent fighting Islam. Muslims had to migrate in search of peace, but he kept leading against them series of intrigues, until he nearly killed the Prophet (on him be peace). Islam remained unchanged and Khaled saw the door of hope before him. He grabbed the cord of repentance to become the greatest Muslim general that has ever lived.
       After spending nineteen years assaulting Islam. Amr ben As went to Madinah seeking forgiveness. Muhammad (PBUH) forgave him and Islam accepted him into its folds. He become a leading Muslim commander and died propagating the faith and it was he who took Islam into Egypt. Ikramah ben Abu-Jahl and Abu Sufyan were arch enemies of Islam too. Their hands were stained with the blood of the oppressed and their lives were spent tormenting the Muslims. They represented oppression in Makkah and supervised battalions against Madinah, but the door of repentance and hope was never closed. They joined the new movement and became leading Islamic figures.
         Afghanistan belongs first and foremost to Allah and the purpose of its Jihad is to establish Islam on earth. This can only be accomplished if culprits are given opportunities to reform. Wethere-fore need to intensify our armed struggle but at the same time to keep our door open for repentants wishing to join Mujahideen. (•)
Page 45
                                                                 The Mujahideen , AprillMay, 1990
      A young         pioneer
      This is the story or a 14 year old boy from Paktia Province, who was very brave and courageous. He always wanted to go to Jihad fronts with his Mujahid brothers, but his parents did not allow him to go because he was too young.
         One day the opportunity came for him to carry out his wish. The sun was shining and birds were singing, villagers were busy in their work. Suddenly, there came the sound of helicopters and tanks through the quietness of the village. Armed Russian troops appeared and attacked. A savage Russian commander with a loud and angry voice ordered the villagers, “O people you must support our regime by saying,
 Hurrah, Hurrah!"
         The villagers refused to obey him. Instead of shouting “Hurrah! Hurrah!” they all cried out with one voice “Allah-u Akbar.”
         When the cruel commander heard these words, he got angry and ordered his soldiers to kill them at once and set fire to the village. On that day many innocent villagers were martyred. Fortunately, a young boy, Sakhi, was saved because he was a shepherd and at the time of the invasion he was on the top of the mountains grazing his sheep. The sound of shooting and the smoke of the fire made him run and go back to this village. When he saw that all the people had been killed, he quickly went to the next village and announced. “O people, the savage and blood-thirsty Russians have attacked our village and martyred all the people. We must have the courage to take revenge from them.”
         Then he came to the Mujahideen commander Abdul-Hadi. When Hadi saw the young boy ’ s bravery
and courage he was very pleased with him and summoned all his Mujahideen and commanded them to attack the Russian arm y and rescue the neighboring village. When the Mujahideen reached the village, the Russian army had already dug a mass grave for the dead bodies of the villagers and had filled it with a tractor. The commander cried out, “Now is the time to attack our enemy and the enemy of Islam.” The fighting began as the Mujahideen shouted their slogan “Allah-u Akbar” and they killed most of
the savage Russians.
        During the fighting Sakhi saw a Russian soldier trying to kill an old man. Before the soldier was able to shoot him, Sakhi rushed out quickly and killed the cruel soldier and rescued the old man. Meanwhile Abdul-Hadi came and pointed to the Russian commander’s camp. He told Sakhi that it was now time for him to take revenge of the killing of his fellow villagers from the Russians.
        When Sakhi entered the savage Russian commander’s camp with his weapon, the commander was drinking alcohol; without wasting any time or
being scared Sakhi shot him and sent his bad soul to the deepest part of the Hell. When they had successfully finished their battle, the Mujahideen commander Abdul-Hadi ordered his soldiers to leave quickly before the Russians could come to rescue their soldiers. While they were on their way, hundreds of helicopters and parachutes suddenly appeared in the sky and started shooting and spreading gas poison over the Mujahideen and some of them died. Fortunately many were hidden and got safely back to their village. However Sakhi had sunk into a coma, but when Abdul-Hadi saw the innocent boy he saved him quickly from the gas poison, and Almighty Allah gave this brave kid a new life back. When the battle was over the brave soldiers returned to their villages, the young Mujahid delivered a speech to his people. “Look people, we do not have to think that we have less power than our enemy. Remember, we have more power because we have the light of Islam in our hearts. You all witnessed a super power’s defeat against a few Mujahideen. O people, it all was because we believe in Almighty Allah and we always get help from Him”
        Present on the occasion, Abdul Hadi, the Mujahideen commander, spoke highly of Sakhi for his bravery and described what he had done during the fighting. With an air of pride he told the villagers, “My brave and Muslim people, you all have come to know the bravery of this young boy in Jihad. It all means that the Russian Communist regime cannot stand even to our small children. So how can they hope to take our homeland and our freedom”. Then the brave Afghan Mujahideen celebrated their victory with the slogan of “Allah-u Akbar,” “Allah-u Akbar.”
                                                                                                            By: MahboobaQureshi
                                                                   Page 46
                                                The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
oward's eyes never sleep
  The martyrdom of Shaikh Abdullah Azzam al-Shaheed, though months ago, is still fresh in our minds. By reviewing his life, the number of times he faced death, we are reminded that the timing of death is in the hands of Allah (SwT).
     Three times, during and after the War of 1967 in Palestine, Abdullah al-Shaheed faced death at the hands of the Jews.
     In the first instance, he had gone with a group of heroic youth to take cover at the edge of a village in some caves. They had settled there for a little while when a Jewish soldier passed by and advised them to leave their caves because the land had been sold to the Jews. Suddenly, a tank shell fell beside them, nearly setting them on fire, but Allah (SwT) protected them from the fire.
     After the total occupation of Palestine by the Jews, Abdullah al-Shaheed decided to leave his motherland with his young companions, saying: “The land of Palestine is polluted, and I will never step back on it, except as a liberator, if the Almighty wishes.”
     On their way to the riverside of Jordan, they met abruptly with a Jewish patrol of several officers. They were stopped and searched. When one of the Jews poked his hand into Shaikh’s internal pocket which contained the Holy Qur’an, Shaikh stopped the hand by hitting it powerfully while telling him that: "The Holy Qur'an can only be touched by clean hands.” The Jew was taken aback, but then recovered and determined to kill them all. Suddenly another Jewish patrol appeared and stopped them from committing the crime of killing.
     When the operations of Jihad
Shaheed Dr. Abdullah Azzam
around Palestine began, Shaikh Abdullah al-Shaheed was one of the Ulama (Muslim scholars) who was a commander of a front. One day he was praying Dhuhr (noon prayer) while two brothers were nearby cleaning their guns. A bullet went off accidently and passed through Shaikh’s beard, taking with it only some hair.
         After the liberation of Jordan, the army took the action of investigation of those persons who were connected to the chain of liberation activity to pin them in court for penalty. Certain army men came to the Shaikh’s sister’s home and asked for the “thick-beard”. The Shaikh’s son told them that the Shaikh was absent and they left. Later the army came again for the same purpose, but they were more in earnest to find the Shaikh. After a while, the Shaikh came out to them, and asked: “What do you want?”
         They answered: “We want you to come with us to the command post” Shaikh requested them to calm down and have a short conversation with him. The angry Jews sat down and listened to Shaikh’s lecture. In brief, he told them that killing an innocent Muslim is the most horrible crime ever mentioned in any holy book, and a firm punishment will be dealt to those who commit such a crime by the King of the Day of Resurrection. The Jews returned to their commander and told him that the Shaikh was not found at his place.
                                                                                                            Translated from Lahib al- Ma'rakah 93: March 3, 1990, by Abdullah
   Famine kills...
   Province to Faryab Province. It was then put on sale in the Almar market from where residents of the neighboring areas of Kouhestan, Lala Bai, Kouh-e-Toor, and Lafra purchased wheat and barley for their use.
           “In Almar the Mujahideen commanders forced those who had stored wheat and barley to distribute it among the starvation-stricken people, but now those reserves are also ending,” they said.
           The urgent action required to prevent starvation in Almar is to buy grain from Shoulgar or Mazar-e-Sharif cities of Balkh Province and then distribute it among the famine-stricken people. Taking wheat from fertile areas such as the Helmand or Qandahar provinces is not possible because it takes a long time to carry wheat to Faryab due to the difficult mountainous passes of the neighboring areas and the Faryab Province itself. So, the best way remains to purchase wheat from Balkh Province. The people are also suffering economic problems butdistribution of money may create new problems among them,” Bro. Saleh Muhammad remarked.
           “One of the relief committees had promised to send a delegation to Shoulgar or Mazar-e-Sharif cities of the Balkh Province to purchase wheat and carry it to the famine in drought-stricken areas,” Br. Saleh Muhammadsaid. They were planning to carry wheat to those areas and distribute it among the people at a cheap price. Those who cannot afford to pay the price would work in the mentioned committee’s reconstruction programme to build and reconstruct roads and bridges in the area but no action has been taken so far.
           About the price of wheat, he said that wheat is sold for Afs. \2,400 in Almar, while in Faryab it is between 1,700 and 1,800 Afs. But in the areas controlled by the puppet regime the price was 1,500 Afs. Recendy the regime’s besieged forces were also suffering famine, and received only some food stuffs occasionally by air.
Page 47
                                                                    The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990

“Xhe Faculty of Education
         of Jihad University J
the refugees camps as well as in the liberated areas by the Jihad organizations. As the period of refugees existence became prolonged, the need for higher education at the university level became more pressing since the schools run by the Mujahideen so far had provided education only to the grade 12 level. After the dawn of the total victory there will be, of course, an even greater need for experts in the specialized fields. Such experts can only be trained in universities and other higher institutes of education. With the grace of Allah (SwT), we were able to open the Faculty of Education as well as the Faculty of Medicine which was introduced in the last issue of the
         It is the strong cultural and academic aspects of the Islamic revolution that ensure the establishment of a government that implements the rule of Allah
(SwT) and His justice on the face of the earth. That is why the Jihad organizations attach enormous importance to the issue of imparting Islamic education to the Muslim community. In pursuance of this noble aspiration, dozens of schools for boys and girls have been opened in
Dr. Assim dean of the Faculty
      In order to strengthen the cultural aspects of the armed struggle and to pave the way for higher and vocational education to the Mujahideen and the refugees, the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, in addition to its other cultural and academic activities, established the Jihad University in early 1989. Currently, but not permanently, based in Peshawar, the University will,
Ensha-Allah, be shifted inside Afghanistan as soon as a suitable condi-
tion permits.
Page 48
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Teacher demonstrating slide preparation
“Mujahideen Monthly.”
         Some of the features of the Faculty of Education are as follows:
For 1989-1990 the Faculty of Education admitted 60 full-time and 180 part-time students in the first year program. Next year the Faculty will add Ensha Allah a second year program and continue to add professors and facilities each year until the Faculty is complete.
The educational staff for the program this year is composed of 15 experienced lecturers. It is envisaged that next year four specialty education departments will be created including 1- Math and Physics, 2- Chemistry and Biology, 3- History and Geography, and 4- Languages.
The professional and experienced administrative staff includes the Dean, the
Academic Principal, three Senior officers and 20 Junior officers.
The administration has striven to provide all possible facilities for the students of the Faculty of Education. Well-equipped laboratories for Chemistry, Biology, and Physics have been established. The library collection currently numbers greater than 1000 books and is expanding.
         We hope that in the long run this Faculty will become a center for scholarly research and education.
         As a newly established institution, we have many unfulfilled needs. If you are able to donate books or financially assist one of our students, please contact the Dean of the Faculty, Dr. H.R. Assim, 39 Park Road, University Town, Peshawar, Pakistan, Telephone 40462.
Palestine...
Palestine and threatening the efforts of the peace movements in both the Occupied Palestine and USA.
        The effects of the passage of this resolution have already begun to appear. As a consequence of this resolution, the Israeli extremists were given a huge boost, a matter which precipitated the failure of the Labour Party’s Shemon Peres to form a government. Since Peres has openly committed himself to direct talks with the Palestinians, his failure to form a government should be viewed as a blow to the Middle East peace process. Another resultof the resolution has been escalation of the Israeli repression in the occupies Arab territories, particularly the massacre of April 26 in which four Palestinians were killed and 140 were wounded.
        One would expect the American Congress would have exercised some caution in passing such resolutions and at least have a debate about whether to oppose three U.N. resolutions recognizing Jerusalem as occupied territory and to be the first to make a step contrary to the international community who all have had their embassies in Tel Aviv instead of Jerusalem for decades. It was an unnecessary and aggressive aetata time when interfering with the very sensitive negotiations concerning hostages in Lebanon as wel 1 as between Palestinians and Israelis is incomprehensible.
        We believe that many Americans were shocked by the passage of this resolution and will inform their Congressmen of the grave consequences which their decision entails so that they will be able to review their decision and return to their moderate and cautious stance on issues in the Middle East. It will serve the cause of peace if the American Congressmen will educate themselves about the crisis of the Palestinian Muslims and take meaningful steps towards helping them gain their rights rather than allowing the Zionist lobby to pull the wool over their eyes.
Teacher demonstrating oral sample collection for slide preparation
Page 49
The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990


                                                                                                                                                                                 Wrt.
 By Faizullah Kakar Ph. D. RAC A Health Committee
Post-War Afghanistan
             C_7
       I. Introduction
       Jn Sweden, out of 1000 births only seven babies die before they reach one year old, but in Afghanistan in 1980 a survey showed that about 150 babies out of every 1000 babies bom die before the age of one year. The rate of death of children between the ages of one and five years old is called child mortality. Again the rate in Afghanistan is more than ten times the rate in countries like Sweden or Japan. Most of these deaths are avoidable, preventable by cheap simple means.
         I n a 1984 United Nations’ survey of Afghan refugees, it was found that 38% of infant deaths are due to tetanus and about 20% of children’s
deaths are related to an episode of measles, both totally avoidable by vaccination. 39% of children die due to dehydration from diarrhea. Dehydration has been shown to be effectively counteracted by Oral Rehydration Solution that is, giving the child water with a little salt and sugar.
        If childhood disease is so easily prevented, why are we so far behind? There are many reasons—economical, political, and cultural, but the latest scientific research says that lack of education, especially women’s education, is the biggest reason for poor health. In developing countries it was found that increasing women’s literacy by 1 % was three times more effective in reducing child mortality in that country than increasing the number of doctors by 1%. Even in developed countries, health is more closely associated with education
 than any other factor including economic status or family size.
        Not only in matters of health is education important but in all matters of development of a country. Why is it that countries of the Third World have been struggling for forty years and still have not moved from “developing countries” to “developed countries” in spite of fancy development aid packages of billions of rupees? At the same time, some countries which were totally devastated by war in the past century have rebuilt with less aid and over less than a decade. A major economist says the keys are “education, organization, and discipline” rather than natural wealth, capital, or infrastructure. Countries where literacy is high, development is easier and quicker. We must note however that education is a slow process. We cannot snap our fingers and be educated, it takes patience and perseverance, personally and in policy. But we must start NOW.
 II. Intersectoral nature of health problem
        For the past ten years the World Health Organization has been emphasizing and calling for the coordination of health-related activities of different sectors. Previously health planning has emphasized the curative approach and, as such, has been isolated to the health sector. More recently, health experts have seen the advantages of the preventive approach and this has led to the need for intersectoral policy formulation
        The goal of a preventive ap-
Page 50
The Mujahideen , ApriUMay, 1990
                                             -
proach to health care is primarily to prevent the occurrence of physical and mental disease and injury.
Clearly, it is better not to have a disease than to have it and try to repair the damage after-wards. In many cases it may not be possible to repair the damage completely, or at all.
For example, there is as yet no known cure for AIDS or lung cancer, but we know the causes of these diseases. By exercising preventive measures the incidence of these diseases can be greatly reduced. In addition to this obvious benefit, prevention costs less than cure. The cost of many preventive measures, for example vaccinations and screening tests, is rather smal 1 and the benefits in terms of saving lives, preventing suffering, and saving the economic resources of a nation are considerable. For these reasons preventive medicine has been gaining popularity around the world and progressively more and more resources are being invested in preventive health services. A preventive approach to health care works in both developed and developing countries, and they both need intersectoral policy planning to implement the best preventive programs.
         A good example of an intersectoral approach is Norway, a developed country with poor land resources. They were importing increasing amounts of dairy products such as butter which was harmful to their health. In 1975 nine ministries formed a joint committee to enact a national food policy to emphasize margarine rather than butter, cereals and potatoes rather than meat and sugar, and increased fish consumption. The ministries of agriculture, industry, fisheries, health, environment, trade, foreign affairs,education,and consumers undertook policies affecting pricing, subsidies, processing, imports, marketing, sales, public information, education, regulation of food labeling, and re-
mortality among Afghans. Diarrheal illness is prevented by good hygiene, clean water, and proper use of latrines. Most infantile diarrhea can be controlled and cured in the early stages by homemade so-lutions of water, sugar, and salt.
        Intersectoral action is needed for the construction of latrines, production of building materials, pipes, and providing skilled labor. However, maternal education is the key to both the prevention and cure of diarrheal disease. In Ghana, Nigeria, and Sudan a recent survey suggested that maternal education even went a long way to overcome deficient water and toilet facilities.
search. The result was seen ten years later in a decline in cardiovascular mortality.
         In post-war Afghanistan, intersectoral policy planning is needed for preventive medicine programs in each of the five major areas of health problems, as follows:-
1.   There are six infectious diseases which are called THE SIX PREVENTABLE DISEASES. They are diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio, measles, andTB. They are preventable by immunizations. Intersectoral coordination is needed for the production, storage, transportation, and distribution of the vaccines. Distribution of the vaccines requires assistance of the communication and education sectors to inform and convince families of the importance of immunizations.
         2.          Diarrhea or dysentery is responsible for about 30% of the infant
        3.                       The preventive approach to malaria is twopronged. It includes the diagnosis and cure of malaria among the people to reduce its spread, and killing the vector mosquitos. Diagnosis requires laboratory equipment and cure requires drugs, both of which require production and distribution, educated practitioners and educated consumers (patients). Irrigation water which is essential for the agriculture sector is the breeding grounds for the mosquito population. Research and production facilities are needed to provide mosquito spray which is most lethal to the mosquitos and least likely to harm the environment.
             4.              Respiratory infections are a > difficult disease area for the preventive health approach. Health education for the whole community, for example, to avoid sharing cups among large groups such as schools and other institutions, is the chief intersectoral approach. Maternal education to understand the seriousness of the disease when it occurs is also important
           5.  Prevention of malnutrition,
Page 51
The Mujahideen . April!May, 1990

 on the other hand, has many approaches which include intersectoral cooperation. First, the mother needs education to properly look after the food needs of her family. Then the availability of food depends on the agriculture sector to plant, grow, harvest and store the crops after the military sector has cleared the land of mines. Then the sectors for transporting, wholesaling, and retailing, including inspecting , licensing, and advertising, are involved. Finally, as urbanization increases, more and more families need income to buy the food which means jobs are needed and the fathers need education to budget their earning.
III.  Intersectoral aspects of malnutrition, especially considering agriculture
         Agriculture policy aimed solely at improving output or income may have unforeseen effects on health. To have food, you either need land to raise food or income from work. In developing countries more than 2/3 of the popula-
 tion derive their livelihood from agriculture while only 5-10% do so in developed countries. So, in developing countries, most working time is spent in agriculture. At the same time, most income is spent on food.
 Agriculture development should aim to stabilize income and food production♦
         Mechanization with big tractors and equipment usually means loss of employment for farm workers and large debts for farm owners. The large farms needed to make machinery worthwhile mean that smaller farmers sell their land and move to the city where there are no jobs and no land either. This means no income, no food, and malnourished children.
         Urbanization is a dangerous trend for any country. Excessive migration of people to the city creates unemployment, crime and unhealthy overcrowding of housing and all facilities, leading to unsanitary conditions and lifestyle. In an overcrowded city epi-
demics of infectious disease can spread very easily. To prevent this, development efforts must aim to enhance rural life, for example, so that social services such as health care are equally available in the rural areas as urban.
         Emphasizing cash crops for export such as cotton may mean that there is not enough land for staple foods. Discouraging such cash crops as poppies or tobacco because of their harmful effects to the consumer may mean that subsidies may be needed to provide profits for farmers of other crops.
         Encouraging animal husbandry means a lot of land is used raising food for the animals which are an expensive protein as compared to raising cheaper plant proteins for people.
         Changing to high-yielding varieties, of wheat, for instance, means increased investment in the seed which may not be adequately tested for the insects, climate, and water conditions of the region, thus causing greater losses, not only to the farmer, but to the con-
Page 52
sumer, due to food shortages and higher
prices.
         Stability of output should be given prime consideration when plans are being made to induce economic “growth”, in order to ensure food supply and prevent malnutrition.
IV.    Other Agriculture-related health problems
          A1986 WHO report lamented, “Developing countries, even before they have overcome the agriculture-related health problems of poverty, are acquiring those of affluence, often without the resources to deal with either. The agriculture-related health problem of poverty is malnutrition which in conjunction with infection and parasites increases mortality and morbidity, especially of the 0-5 years age group. On the other hand, the agriculture-related health problem of affluence is overconsumption of fats and sugars in combination with stress and sedentary living which may accelerate or cause cancer, heart disease, or
stroke in the over 40 years age group.
         The difference in agricultural status between the developed and developing nations and the local habits of food consumption have far-reaching implications for health. Take, for example, the effect of tea consumption in a population that consumes a diet rich in thiamine (vitamin BI) versus a population with a diet poor in this vitamin.The caffeine present in the tea lowers the body’s thiamine level. Drinking tea will not pose a worrisome health threat in a population that consumes a thiamine-rich diet. In a thiamine-poor diet such as that of the Afghan refugees, however, drinking tea can only worsen the health problem s related to thiam ine deficiency.
         The symptoms of thiamine deficiency include nervousness, difficulty to concentrate, agitation, and difficulty in digesting carbohydrates. High consumption of purified sugar and psychological stress are other factors that reduce thiamine. All of these three factors (tea-sugar-stress) are present among the Afghan refugees. The combined effect of these factors in lowering body
thiamine in a population with a poor thiamine diet is indeed a situation that requires immediate attention.
        As in Norway, unhealthy pattern of food consumption, such as increasing consumption of tea and sugar, can be influenced by health education in schools and through radio,TV, and the newspaper, by duty on imports, by agriculture programs, and by other national policies, ifthere is intersectoral policy planning for health.
V.  Conclusion.
          In conclusion intersectoral cooperation is needed to formulate and implement the best intervention for preventing disease. Towards this goal, coordination between sectors such as those of agriculture, education, and public health are particularly essential. We should design intersectoral approaches that induce changes consistent with our religious and cultural norms and which will help us to achieve a balanced success that has the quality of “permanence”.
Page 53
 The Mujahideen
                           Acting Editor: Faizullah Kakar, Ph. D. Printing and Design Editor: A. Rahmani Address vour letters and inquiries to:
                         The Mujahideen P. O. Box 710 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan ^^
Please, send your subscriptions to The Mujahideen at the following Bank Account:
 Habib Bank Limited Cantt. Branch,
 A/c No. 4852-76 Peshawar, Pakistan
Subscription rates: Pakistan: Rs. 70/Year All Others: US $20/Year
The Editor of The Mujahideen will be willing to publish articles related to Mujahideen anywhere. Articles containing data and analysis are especially given preference.
                                                     With regards,
                                                     Acting Editor Faizullah Kakar, Ph.D.

£25


Page 54

KUNAR ELECTION RESULTS
Description of the graph abbreviations
Abbreviation Party leader          
HIA          Eng. G. Hekmatyar     
AH           Maulana J. Rahman     
JIA          Prof. B. Rabbani      
NIFA         PirS. A. GaJIani      
SY           Prof. A. R. R. Sayyaf 
KH           Maulawi M.Y. KhaJes   
MJ           Prof. S. Mujaddidi    
AF           Maulana Afzal         
NM           Maulawi N. Mansoor    
QA           Qadhl M.A. Waqqad     
NB           M. M. N. Muhammad!    
SZ           Maulana S. Zaman      
AH
HIA (28.2%)
NIFA
NB (2.4%)
MJ (4.0%)
           KH (4.0%) SY (4.0%) (8.1%)
   SZ (0.8%)
                                                                                                  QA (2.4%)
                                                                                                 NM (2.4%)
                                                                                                  AF (3.2%)
JIA (12.1%)

For detail see page 20