r
                               TUrougV, action V-cess
h1Al Passes Thro B
                   Hekmatyar Critical of tJ • Role
                         I   
Q ezb-i-Islami Afghanistan 1 
       We want to establish an Islamic Government in Afghanistan that is independent, non-aligned and Islamically elected. Our Jihad will continue until this goal is a reality.
       We insist on election as the only practical way for solving the current Afghan crisis. No Government other than an elected Islamic one will be able to put an end to the war and establish durable peace and security in Afghanistan.
       The internal and external policy of our Government will be based on Qur’an andSunnah. We will make independent judgements on all international issues and maintain friendly relations with all states except those that are engaging in activities detrimental to our faith, independence and territorial integrity.
       The Islamic state of Afghanistan will take all possible measures to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals and will promote science and technology for the reconstruction, development, self-reliance and self-sufficiency of our state.
Published every month

No. 3,5th year September , 1991
Founded By Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan
  «W>
Hi



TABLE OF CONTENTS
s. No. Article                            Page 
01 Editorial                                03 
02 New World Order                          04 
03 Hekmatyar Critical of US Role            05 
04 Iran helping Najib Kabul Regime          06 
05 The Culture of Vanity                    07 
06 News Round up                            10 
07 Yugoslavia-The Nationality Problem       13 
08 The liberation movement in Kashmir       15 
09 Fast walk - a good recipe                16 
10 Ouster of Najib regime - only solution   17 
                                                    The Mujahideen, September, 1991                     Page 02
11    Honey Heals                                                   18
12    OIC Memorandum                                               19
13    HIA Election Process Underway                                 23
14    Islamic Movements and their future                            25
15    The Concept of God in Islam                                   28
16    The Throne of Justice                                         29
17    Isn't the U.S Threatening world Peace and Stability ?         33
18    Position of Women in Islam                                    35
19   On the Brink of Nemesis                                        40
20    The Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromia                45
21   Who Rules the Horn                                             47
YOU CAN (JET OUR MAGAZINE FROM THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
 TO:
 AUKHAN P.O.BOX #3081 NEW DELHI 110003 INDIA
 TO:
 AHMADSHAHQAYUMI
 GROFTHOJPARKEN,
 157TH
 8260-VIBY-J ARI1US-DENMARK
 TO:
 LAM
 46AVENUEDE
 TERVUREN
 1040BRUXLLES
 BELGIQUE
 TO:
 P.O.BOX# 443 FLUSHING. Y11352 USA
 TO:
 GUI.ZAI
 GEORGIA COLLEGE C.P. BOX #1000 MILLEDGEVILLE G. A. 31061-1000 USA
 TO:
 IAM
 ARY SCHEFFER STR. 10 2597 VVDENHAG HOLAND
 TO:
 M. SHARD-AMIN 10-44-EPPENG ROAD-LANE COVE (NSW)2066 AUSTRALIA
 TO:
 IDA
 THEATHERSTR. 12
 53BONN1
 WESTGERMANY
 TO:
 IDA
 BMBOX#
 2084
 LONDON WCIN 3 XX ENGLAND
 TO:
 IDA
 II# B-40 BLOCK ABDUL 11 ASS AN ASFHANI RO AD HULSHAN-E-IQB AL KARACHI 47 KARACID
 TO:
 AFGIIANMUJAHIDEEN
 INFORMATION
 BUREAU 14126SHERMAN
 WASDY+201
 VANNUYS.CA
 91405
 USA
 TO:
 J-MANSOOR 61FRANEL-CR WESTTON-DNT M91-IB6 CANADA
 TO:
 IDA
 15, RUEDE PROG RES 93230 ROM AINVILLE FRANCE
  TO:
  IAM
  P.O. BOX #394 STATION (O 0M4A
  2N9 TORONTOONTARIO CANADA
TO:
O.A.M
902/4 JALAN TUN ISMAIL
KUALA LUMPUR MALAYSIA

Editorial
    The Mujahideen, September, 1991                       •.         Page 03          3$
difficult to postpone the election process on the plea of the war; but HIA decided to hold elections and presently the party is going
                                                                                                                 formed by twele persons but today thenumber of its Ark an (members) and Azo (Associate members) are about
          Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, is one of the most organised, disciplined and popular organization of Afghan masses. It has in its folds an army of ideologically committed workers. HIA has also attracted a large number of Afghan itellegentia.
 HIA PASSING THROUGH ELECTION P!
 through an extensive process for election of its Amir (chief) and central Shoora (consultative body). This is the seventh internal party elections of HIA since its inception in 1969. Its first election was held in the premises of the Kabul University in the year 1972 and a 5-member elected Shoora was formed. The venue of the meeting was the mosque of the polytechnic institute which was participated by about 253 persons who elected the 5-memebr Shoora.
 one million so the present election process involves about one million workers of HIA, a developlenmt for which Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan could very rightly be proud of. Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan addressed a ceremony held at Nasrat Meena, Shamshatu camp, in Peshawar, in connection with the holding of the elections for Amir of and Shoora of HIA. A long number of the members the members and Associate members of the Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
          Besides being a well organized party of Afghan masses, HIA is now-a-days regarded as one of the main actors of the Afghan problem. Being a vocal critic of west and especially America, the Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is seen as a major threat to the evil designs of western powers in Afghanistan who are out to install a government of their own choice after the fall of Najib regime i.e replacing one puppet by another.
          But these are not the only characteristics for which Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is cherished by Afghan masses and intelligentia.
          HIA has a very good track record
          The members included Moulvi Habib-ur-Rahman Shaheed, Engineer Habib-u-Rahman Shaheed, Nusralyar Shaheed and Gulam Rabbani Ateesh Shaheed and Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar (the present Amir of HIA). It is worth mentioning here that out of the twele founding members of HIA who launched this Islamic movement under the leadership of the Ustaz Abdur Rahim Niazi, eleven have embraced martyrdom and its is only its present Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar who is still alive and leading this great Islamic movement. Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistanjiave found in the leadership of Engineer Hekmatyar, a link between its past and
         He dwelt at length on the importance of the election process and emphasized that election for Amir and its central Shoora is the basic tenet of our collective system and election process. It is our belief that Amir must be elected by the Ummah; Islam has given this right to Ummah, he said. He, however, said that Allah Almighty has directed Muslims to entrust the right to rule in those people who are capable of carrying out this duty.
         Emphasizing the need of the Shoora, Engineer Hekmatyar said that the Shoora ensures solution of our problems, cement our unity and also serve as a strong check against mistakes.
of holding its internal elections at regular intervals, which makes it a fully democratic organization. Even during the Jihad (Holy War) it kept its tradition of holding elections intact; otherwise it would not have been
present. He is witness, rather remained par of all the ups and downs through which HIA has passed since its inception.
                                                                                                                               Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan was
           Engineer Hekmatyar told the audience that it is now upto you as to whon you give the right to run the affairs of such an Islamic movement which is the centre of hopes for hundred of thousands of martyrs, orphans and widows. You should exercise utmost care in exercising your right to vote. He also threw light on the characteristics which a member of the Shoora or Amir of an Islamic movement should have and asked the members of the HIA to keep in mind these characteristics while exercising their votes.
           We hope that HI A would continue to keep its ISlamic and democratic tradition of holding its party elections and it is also hoped that the members of HIA would keep in mind the characters and sacrifices of people to whom they are going to entrust the task of running this great Islamic movement; the address of Engineer Hekmatyar could serve as a guideline in this connection.
         The United States former ambassador to Pakistan Mr. Robert B. Oklay has recendy elaborated on the theory of a ‘ New World Order ’. He said that the American proposed new world order meant peaceful settlement of international disputes, enhancement of international co-operation, solidarity against aggression, lessening of confrontations and reduction in arms. Before taking his statement on its face value we must look around to find the secret agreements between US and Isrcal; the Israeli bombardment of a sovereign state, Lebanon, the sole attention paid to disarm Iraq and military/ economic sanctions against Pakistan. These measures, discriminatory in natrue, are
 sufficient to show what the ‘New World Order’ has in store for the Muslims in the globe.
          The whole wolrd is witness to the fact that the Americas are interested only in theirs own supremacy. They have a despicable record in Vietnam, their collaboration with the terrorist state
 of Israel is also well known. Months before they declared their secret agreements with Isarel. These secret agreeements mean a lot. Then who is to hoodwink.
         If the U. S wants reduction in armaments the best thing is to begin the charity at home. Destroy your own arsenals, conventional as well as non-conventional. Now you have no excuse of Russian danger as it has become your surrogate like Britain. If you are well-intentioned , China too will follow suit. But this is not the case. The new world order has the first clause to the effect of America being the supreme power. That is why they want a ‘new world order’ instead of ‘an orderly world’.
          I remember the Soviet Union campaigning for world peace after the second world war was over. It had organized big international conferences on the subject. They had even mobilised a sign campaign against war and aggression. But then all of a sudden the whole process stopped, why? Because after the II war Russia was afraid of
 American nuclear capability already demonstrated in Heroshima. But when Russia acquied the same capability itself it abandoner its movement for world peace. It was not peace that Russia was struggling for; they wanted only to ward off the American nuclear danger by raising hue and cry for world peace. By doing so America would come under the pressure of world public opinion forgetting to use its force against Russia. The same is the case with the new world order it is not order that is sought but only to disarm and enslave some states under the glorious label of new world order. Those who are betenoir are to be disarmed and punished. The pet ones are allowed and helped in arming themselves and attacking others. What a discriminatory ‘new world order’! To substantiate the point more we should recall a fresh statement by James Backer U.S Secretary of State wherein he has stated that America will notallow China to sell missiles to Pakistan and Syria. Keeping in view the favourable attitude of America towards Israel etc one comes to know the blue print of the proposed order.
          There is also a strong opinion circulating in certain circles. It says that emphasising the new world order in place of envigorating the already existing charter of the United Nations for world peace, envisages another dimension also. According to this theory America, through the proposed order, wants to circumscribe the economic giants like Germany in the West and Japan in the East. As the two powers pose economic challenges to the U. S, so the need to minimise their power. Any how, all facts seem to point to anything but a just international system applicable to all nations equally. In case we are wrong the concerned ones are invited to prove.
                                              The Mujahideen, September, 1991        •-                   •'Page 05
       NEGATIVE SYMMETRY
   HEKMATYAR CRITICAL OF U.S ROLE
expressed doubts over the accord on negative symmetry between the two superpowers and termed it a plot to deceive Mujahideen and to further isolate them internationally.
         Maulvi Mohammad Yonus Khalis, the chief of his own faction of Hezb-i-Islami in an interview on Saturday said that after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, Moscow has been making all out efforts to increase the credence of the puppet regime of Kabul. This is due to this policy of
USSR, the puppet regime has sometimes been appealing for ceasefire and some times for national reconciliation or negotiations etc. to boost its image up.
         He said that had the two
        The chief of Hezbi-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbaddin Hekmatyar has blamed Washington for continuation of Moscow’s military aid to the Najib regime for another winter.
          “This itself speaks of the
malign intentions of US, because Americans believe that the continuation of military supplies to the puppet regime during the next fall will guarantee its survival as Mujahideen will not be able to take action against the puppet regime the puppet regime due to incliminate weather” he remarked.
        Gulbaddin Hekmatyar maintained that the date for the cessation arms has been set for January next year in a bid to give a new life to the puppet regime of
        In a wireless interview from
 Afghanistan with Afghan News Agency on Saturday, he said that for a long time he had been demanding an end to the US intervention in the Afghan affairs, enabling its people to determine their future themselves.
He said, Moscow’s
agreement on negative symmetry speak the truth that Soviet were ready to put an immediate end to the
military supplies to Kabul, but the US seemed unwilling just because they had no alternative for Najib and had the supplies stopped to the regime it might have resulted in his removal and establishment          of
Mujahideen government in Afghanistan. He said that Washington never seemed inclined to such a change and for that reason it ventured to force Moscow to continue aid to Kabul till January next year.
Kabul, but God willing the will not last longer as Mujahideen were determined to take a befitting action against it.
       A large number of other Mujahideen leaders have also
                                                                                                                The Mujahideen, September, 1991
\e 06
superpowers been sincere in resolving the Afghanistan problem they should have put an immediate end to the military supplies to both Mujahideen and the Kabul regime.
        Maulvi Youns Kahlis said that massive military supplies to the Kabul regime by Moscow are continuing which are being stored for odd times.
        He said that there was no reason in setting the date for a halt in military supplies for January next year and added, had the parties been sincere in resolving the problem they should have immediately stopped the military supplies.
        He viewed that Moscow will not spare any efforts to guarantee survival of the puppet regime, while on the contrary Mujahideen did not suit the American interests in Afghanistan. He however, maintained that the impact of the cessation of arms will not be negative on Mujahideen rather it would boost their moral because started Jihad with empty bands just for blessing of the Almighty Allah.
        He showed pessimism that some friendly countries of Afghanistan will split in different camps and it will aid fuel to the fire in Afghanistan.
        He also criticised the visit of UN Security General Perez de Cuelar to Iran and Saudi Arabia and said that his trip was aimed at stopping the financial assistance of Saudi Arabia to Mujahideen. He alleged that the international forum was venturing to force Mujahideen and the puppet regime in an intera-Afghan dialogue.
        The ex-deputy chief of NIFA and former AIG education

 minister Dr. Fraooq Azam, in an interview with Afgan News Agency termed the agreement as a positive step. He said that the moment the arms supplies are stopped, the Kabul regime will collapse. He said that Mujahideen enjoyed support of the majority of Afghan people while the regime was relying on mercenaries who fought against Mujahideen by dint of massive Soviet supplies.
        He said that stoppage of military aid to the parties will not put an end to the war in Afghanistan and Mujahideen are determined and to continue Jihad till removal of the regime and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
        Dr. Farooq Azam predicted an early fall of the puppet regime.
        The chief of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, in his reaction said, the agreement on negative symmetry between the two superpowers was not a surprising one. He said that the military aid to Mujahideen was stopped immediately after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan while the puppet regime was being supplied arms by Moscow uptoits teeth and nail. He considered the agreement a step in positive direction.
        Prof. Rabbani expressed doubts that Moscow would sincerely honour the agreement and feared that the regime will be supplied military under different pretexts. He feared massive arms induction to Kabul till January next.
        He believed that if the Soviet implemented this agreement in true sense and spirit, the collapse of the communist regime will come very close,
                                               Iran Helping
                                                  Kabul Regime
        A prominent Afghan Shia Mujahideen leader has diclosed that Iran is providing food assistance to the regime of Najib. He said that this help by the Iranian leadership for a communist ruler was against the wishes of the people of Iran as well as the Afghan Mujahideen.
        Criticising the food supply to Kabul by Iran, the Afghan Mujahideen leader said neither Iran nor any other country had the right to enter in any talks on behalf of the Afghan Mujahideen or the refugees.
        Hujatul Islam Jibraili, a spokesman fo rthe four-party alliance of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen. Hujatul Islam further said his alliance outrightly rejected the recently concluded tripartite talks on the Afghan issue at Tehran. Jibraili made these remarks during an interview with The Frontier Post at his office in Peshawar yeasterday.
        The Peshawar-based alliance of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen, Shora-e-Ethtelaf is representing the Herakat-e-Islami, led by Ayatullah Asif Muhsani, Shora-e-luefaq with Ayatullah Syed Nadir Ali Maddavi as its chief, Pesdaran-e-Jihad under Ayatullah Taqadusi and Jabah-e-Mutahid led by Qasmi.
        Shora-e-Ehtelaf has also its offices at Quetta and Chitral but it is functioning in low profile. All thesefour parties of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen were bom in Tehran but they shifted their bases to Pakistan more than two year ago. The reason for shifting to Pakistan was the differences they developed with the Iranian leadership. These Mujahideen claim that under interference in their internal affairs by the Iranian leadership made them to come to Pakistan.

The Mujahideen, September, 1991
 Is oppression removable?... or to put it in other words, is true justice and secured liberty attainable?... Here Shaykh Ibn Abayomi contends that the cultural disposition of a people is the most reliable variant that can be used to accelerate or deter their own contribution to human civilization... but The Third World has its own problem and this is exactly what our brother tries to explain in ...
          The problem with the Third World is that it apparently wants to join other worlds without making sure first that it removes those basic reasons responsible for its backwardness.
          Hardly can there ever be—going by the documented history of mankind till date— a nation which attains greatness, on a globe full of competitions, without having some driving ideological tenets on which the superiority of the entire community is founded.
          A country or race devoid of a dynamic and unified faith in a common goal is already sentenced to an everlasting imprisonment in the waste basket of history.
          What therefore is needed in the Third World to catch up with the so-called advanced democratic states or the big capitalist-7, is to shed the implanted inferiority complex in their psyche and believe devotedly in the possibility of everything within the extensive boundaries of nature.
          The duty starts with the governments in building first and foremost real and living nations whose citizens are united not necessarily by language or colour but by intrinsic deep faith in a common goal with total preparedness to die for this FAITH without hesitation.
          Unfortunately today, before the Third World is named as developing or underdeveloped, its leaders have earlier failed to
 fulfil the two most important responsibilities. These are the duties of producing universal ideological principles that could rally their own subjects together and the obligation of embarking on a programme of self-sufficiency. The few among them whocould be said to possess some in-sights as regards these problems failed woefully in practical implementation of what they held to be theoretically correct.
          It was perfectly true that the Third World at one time or the other was subjected to a rule of exploitation and plaunder by today’s so-called champions of liberty and defenders of human rights. Their resources were funnelled away and the meagre manpower in their possession was drained to the marrow. Such denials came through slave trade, colonialism, neo-colonialism and today’s dollar imperialism. These infact were (and are) some of what could be called our
problems but looking deeply one finds them to be of a secondary nature.
          In life, man has to struggle and the fact that others stand on his way in trying to prevent his progress, can never be a cogent excuse for inaction. The true problem is that where many a nation among the so-called developed and advanced countries falls and stands up again to face the challenges of life, most Third World countries called it a quit and resigned themselves unjustly to fate. The issue therefore is more of will, determination and perseverance than of anything else.
          Any nation as a gathering of tribes and clans might not be blamed for this but the culture that aids ignorance, abets superstitions, produces tyrants and pacifies the populace against all logical demands for a revolt should be held responsible for their backwardness. You have to take up the
The Mujahideen, September, 1991

■'■yy
                                                                                                                         Page 08
 initiatives , and if other solutions are unproductive, you should take to a radical armed struggle in stopping the oppression.
          The reasons why oppressors would always wish to exploit others are known. Blaming the enemy for one’s defeat is not a better course in a world filled with injustice. It is utmost stupidity to go into battles with a perfect hope that the enemy would lay down his arms and turn in his men without the least resistance. Why haven’t the oppressed populace as a response risen up in arms against tyranny and exploitation? If for one reason or the other, or to be more explicit if people willingly subscribe to an archaic social system, which stands always against progress and revolution at a time when nothing pays better than strong will and a positive break with the past, then nothing besides their own ineptitude and cowardice must be held responsible for their backwardness.
          Ironically, this very tradition that ungloriously condemns its own believers into near permanent state of socio-political, economic and intellectual serfdom before other nations is itself devotedly elevated at the altar of oppression by almost every member of the community as the epitome of their own contribution to human civilization!
          It is not the want of ideas that the Third World lacks nor the labour, capital and rawmaterialsto be used in furthering technoindustrial development and protecting its societies from capitalist monopoly and Zionist exploitation. What it actually lacks is a dynamic and unified ideological faith that brings forth strong determination and iron will which can put resources together for the cause of a meaningful sovereignty.
          Strong faith in a common goal resides in the mind and not on the lips of the leaders or in statutory books nor in the color of the flag or verses of the anthem. Islamically
 we must know that true freedom starts from the heart. If the mind still exists in bondage of customs and traditions and the brain is not free from the venoms of passion and superstitions then no hope for the fathers nor their progenies.
          Today there are leaders in the Third World who do claim they are out to salvage their people and propel the wheel of progress ahead except that reality has confirmed that they do not believe in anything beside the oppressive religion of fraud and tyranny. They are prepared to plunder the national treasury to the last cent and if possible, mortgage the wholenation as a wedding gift, and more often than not, exterminate villages if not towns and provinces to remain in power....
          Do we blame them, when in fact they are nothing but mere seeds of an old and
strong cultural tree of vanity. This is another main reason why many a movement that crops up with the name of Islamic resurgence might never succeed. The points of emphasis in the programmes of a lot of these organizations have always been what should be rightly referred to as subordinate issues. These of course include fanatical concentration on religious ritualism, open defence or unconscious protection of unpragmatic social traditions, shameful apologetism in form of psedo-modemism, mere assassination of tyrannical leaders as well as terrorist oppressional on-slaught and untactical or pure chaotic confrontational programmes with existing oppressive systems. The whole strategy could be summarized as a programme devoid of thorough ideological world-view and lacking basic socio-political spade-work.
         The final result of any of the above mentioned objectives is essentially not different from the others. With due
 acknowledgements, each of the goals is part of what should be done but could not on its own constitute the absolute aim of a fundamental global or local popular upheaval.
          The hightest ambition of a true Islamic revolution is to change an existing oppressive system and establish in its stead a dynamic and just way of life. Both the words “system” and “way of life” mean the same thing. They represent the doctrinal understanding, individual manners, predominant customs, political administration, social behavioral pattern, educational aspirations, legal set-up, military organization e.t.c. These all and more form the general cultural institution of the community.
          The objective of Islamic revolutionary movement from what is said so far could be seen to be lofty, comprehensive and eternal. Killing a despotic president for instance or embarking on economic structural adjustment, constitutional amendments, building of mosques and spiritual centres as well as calling zealously to religious enthusiasm are therefore never enough to guarantee desired fundamental and complete Islamic changes in any particular human community. The hori zon has to be broadened and the programmes should be embracing and pragmatic.
          The cultural disposition in the society must be reformed and re-channeled to fulfil the triple responsibilities of (i) creating a devoted block among the masses led by sincere dedicated men equipped with true Islamic revolutionary programme(ii) confronting the oppressive socio-political machinery and its operators (iii) guaranteeing the perpetuation and dynamism of the new Islamic system.
          Each one of these objectives can never be treated in isolation. It neither means that they must be accomplished simultaneously. What is intended is that the revolutionary programme must take cognizance of these three aims together so that their realisations even if consecutive in time and space are more-or-less automatic and systematic. To achieve or rather create such a methodology, the point of emphasis must always be onhow best to break with the oppressive culture and at the same time initiate a pragmatic substitute so as to avoid sociopolitical and doctrinal vacuum.
Ironically, this very tradition that ungloriously condemns its own believers into near permanent state of sociopolitical, economic and intellectual serfdom before other nations is itself devotedly elevated at the altar of oppression by almost every member of the community as the epitome of their own contribution to human civilization!
In severing the developmental
                                                                                                              The Mujahideen, September, 1991
m Page 09 wmrnmm
 crumble on their subjects without prior notification. The whole process after this abrupt but natural termination is again reinitiated from the beginning and everything continues endlessly in a circle.
           The merits therefore that can be found in creating a movement that implants its adherents with a living way of life are too numerous to count here.
(1) The existing culture of vanity is practically confronted without exposing the developing embrayonic organization to unnecessary brutal governmental reprisals.
(ii) The movement puts its own alternative into a selected and limited experimentation. Here opportunities are created for corrections and new initiatives, before ever striving with all available forces at the prospect of its becoming the paramount system in the community.
(iii) Members of such a movement would have unconsciously been trained so much to be future operators of a new socio-political and economico-ideological programmes.
(iv)  Finally the achievement of each of the major goals become not only easier but gives enough room for eternal perpetuation.
          For our own purpose here therefore, we can conclude that for a true Islamic revolutionary accomplishment a total break from the past and existing culture of vanity is a must.
        Unfortunately, most of the so-called radical fundamentalist organizations and their twin-sisters of conservative traditional religionists, really want to change the very system, they themselves are not prepared to permanently break away from. This is in addition to the
Surrendering at last:- Communist fighters giving themselves up to the Mujahideen
 fact that they have no intrinsic momentum to generate and maintain a new and distinctive way of life as an acceptable alternative.
          These various Muslim militant associations are entrenched though unconsciously in the oppressive past of their individual communities and are embedded with traditional and anti-progrossive institutions of the present monarchial, totalitarian or psedo-democratic states. The result is predictable. 11 is a road that leads into blind alleys of failures, frustrations, and chaos. Even if there appears rays of victory and accomplishment now or later, the so-called new Muslim governments which eventually might be formed will finally
pattern of the movement from the retrogressive traces of the past and unwanted set-up of conservative traditional community, anew living culture that is unique in message and goals, viable in manifestation and dynamic to perpetuate itself must be adopted from the word go by the group. This is to say that the movement should instead of all unnecessary engagements in secondary and irrelevant projects must concentrate on how to be a self independent group that can exist and progress without the oppressors and their system. In other words it must from the onset, has to be a community, within a community or rather a state within another.
          To emphasize this point further, the immediate objective therefore for a pragmatic Islamic revolutionary group is to create its own system that even if mirco in scope and operation but carries within its operational circumference great potentiality and dynamism that would eventually become the global or national culture in the future.
To emphasize this point further, the immediate objective therefore for a pragmatic Islamic revolutionary group is to create its own system that even if mirco in scope and operation but carries within its operational circumference great potentiality and dynamism that would eventually become the global or national culture in the future. These various Muslim militant associations are entrenched though unconsciously in the oppressive past of their individual communities and are embedded with traditional and anti-progrossive institutions of the present monarchial, totalitarian or psedo-democratic states. The result is predictable. It is a road that leads into blind alleys of failures, frustrations, and chaos.
s The Mujahideen, September, 1991
WSmwA

mPage 10
          Fighting between Mujahideen and Kabul regime forces have been reported from different provinces of Afghanistan in which Mujahideen have claimed victories at different battle-fronts,
 (^Prepared by: S. AnwarNas
 August 7:
 Army official rounded up:
 Kabul: Fifteen Army officials rounded up for probe into the Taj Beg blasting incident.
         The Kabul regime rounded up 15 high ranking army and Khad officials for interrogations to probe the Taj Beg ammunition dump blasts, reports AN A’s field correspondent in Kabul.
         It may be mentioned here that the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan had carried out the attacks at Taj Beg ammunition dumps and Oregan, Scud and Luna missile Launch-paths at Darul-Aman Kabul on July 31.
         The Mujahideen sources claimed to have destroyed two ammunition dumps at Bibi Ghaib at Tappa-e-Taj Beg and Oregan, Scud and Luna missile stations at Darul Aman. Around 150 persons were killed in these blasts while 50 jigime tanks were destroyed besides other large scale material losses to the regime forces.
 Shughnan District capture^.
       Shughnan District in the North-Eastern Badakhshan province fell to Afghan Mujahideen after three days
different kinds from the militia barracks and captured 500 Klashinkovs and Pistols.
                                                                                                 Three Mujahideen embraced
heavy fighting on August 5, Mujahideen commanders Shoora based in Peshawar while quoting wireless message of Mujahideen said that Mujahideen launched an attack under the joint-command of sayed Ali Khan (Hezb-i-Islami) and Basir Khalid (Jamiat-e-Islami) on the District on August 3.
        About 66 regime militiamen were either killed or injured while 300 were caught alive by the Mujahideen forces. They recovered 24 cannons of
martyrdom while eight others sustained injuries. The Shughnan District is situated on the border of Soviet Union.
August 10:
                                          Mujahideen’s affensive in Logar and Maidan
       In Logar province Mujahideen launched a joint attack on regime security posts and destroyed three security posts.
                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                        The Mujahideen, September, 1991
The Kabul regime Jet Bombers also heavily pounded Mujahideen basses and the civil population. Commander Mohammad Daudzai was martyred while a number of houses were demolished in the aerial bombings.
        Meanwhile fierce fighting broke out between Mujahideen and the regime forces at the centre of Maidan Wardak province. As a result, Mujahideen captured eight security posts at post Kamar, Chashma-e-Wazer and Abdara. The captured posts are in full control of the Mujahideen and they were making more advances on the regime’s other centres.
   Military trucks captured
        The Afghan Mujahideen seized military trucks of the Kabul regime on Kabul-Heratan Highway and set ablaze 14 oil tankers.
        According to details commanders Abdul Hamed from Samangan province Dr. Ismail from
Baghlan province blocked the Kabul-Heratan Highway near Hazrat Sultan for three days and Captured sixteen military trucks of the regime. The trucks were bringing military hardware to Kabul from the Soviet Union. Mujahideen also destroyed 2 tanks and set ablaze 14 oil tanksers and captured a number of regime militiamen in the three day operation.
 Auugust, 18:
    100 Killed 300 injured in indiscriminate bombings
        Peshawar: Hundred civilians were killed while around 300 injured due to indiscrim inatc bombings by Kabul regime Jet fighters on Badakhshan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces during the past two days.
        According to wireless messages received by the commanders Shoora in Peshawar the regime fighter planes severly bombed trading centres, orchards and densely populated areas in the Northern provinces of Afghanistan.
        In the course of heavy bombings Mujahideen downed a SU-27 Bomber of the regime in Juram District of Badakhshan province on August. 17, Mujahideen captured the pilot of the bomber, col. Abdul Mateen, who disclosed that he alone carried out 300 sorties on Mujahideen positions and
civilian areas in Badakhshan from the Bagram Airbase (Kabul) for two days.
 August 22:
                                               Militiamen surrander
        Four militia regiments of the Kabul regime surrendered to Mujahideen of commander, Maulavi Scrajuddin in
         -...v.:.,-, Page 11 < •• •••••
the Shahrud area of Gulran Distriect in Herat province. A report received from Herat disclosed that Mujahideen launched a joint attack on regime militia regiments. After a slight resistance four regiments of the regime surrendered to Mujah ideen. The surrendered m i 1 i tiamen brought with themselves two 75 mm cannons, three zK-1, fiveRPG-7 Rocket Launchers, twenty heavy machine guns, 600 Klashinkovsand six military trucks.
August 22: heavy Bombing
         Scores of people including men, women and children were reportedly killed and injured while large scale distruction was caused to civilan property in the week long heavy bombing of the Kabul regime Jet Fighters in the central Bamyan province, reports Afghan News Agency.
August 27:
        Copter Downed
        Peshawar:      Mujahideen
downed a regime military Helicopter with anti-aircraft gun in Sharak District of Helmand province on Aug. 26, reports ANA.
        In another report, the Mujahideen alsocaptured a security post and killed six militiamen and injured eight others in Helmand province.
       Convoy Attacked
       Peshawar:    Mujahideen
attacked a military convoy of the Kabul regime on the Mazar-Tashqarghan Highway in Samangan province and destroyed one tank and four military trucks of the Kabul regime loaded with arms and ammunition.
August 31:
                                                 Two Copters Downed in Ghazni
        Peshawar: Mujahideen downed two military Helicopters of the Kabul regime East of Ghazni city in Ghazni
 province. According to wireless reports of the Mujahideen the Helicopters were straffing the military bases of Sielgar Front when they came under anti-aircratf fire of the Mujahideen. Both the Helicopters crashed and its pilot with the crew members were killed instantly.
 Sept. 3:
                                                     protest against Kayhan International assasination threat
         Teheran: Iran-based Afghan intellectuals and refugees staged a protest rally in front of the main offices of the government funded English Language newspaper “Kayhan International” in Tehran last week, to protest the publication of an editorial in the paper which had called for the' head of Afghan Mujahideen leader Gulbaddin Hekmatyar’ reports Afghan News Agency.
         An informed Afghan source told newsmen that the protestors, carrying banners praising Hekmatyar and denouncing the editorial board of the paper, first tried to break through the main gate of the chief editor’s office
                                                            The Mujahideen, September , 1991
 before being pushed back by Iranian Security forces. They also submitted a protest note to chief-editor of Kayhan, demanding a written apology and clarification.
          The source said, next morning instead of rectifying his blunder, the editor-in-chief, adding insult to injury wrote that“wc actually did not mean the physical elimination of Hekmatyar, but we only meant his political elimination.”
          This has further infuriated the Afghans and there was fear of more protest rallies against the pro-Iranian government paper.
        It is to be noted that Hekmatyar has already condemned the said editorial and has termed it the work of some fanatics, “within the ruling circle of
                 Pa8e 12 Iranian government.”
 Sept. 6:
                                              Hekmatyar on death threat to his life by Iranian paper
        Peshawar: Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbaddin Hikmatyar has said that the death threat issued to him by an Iranian newspaper was not accidentally published but it was the handiwork of elements with a sectarian outlook in Iran who wanted to please the west. He made these remarks in an interview with a group of Arab journalists who met him inside Afghanistan on Friday Sept. 6.
        Hikmatyar commented thatthe Iranian government was infuriated by the failure of the tripartite Tehran conference on the Afghan issue which were not attended by Hezb-i-Islami.
        They are fearful of the strength and power of Hezb-i-Islami which is capable ofcstablishing and adminiserting an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He, however, said that only time would tell the motives behind the death decree against him in Kayhan International Newspaper.
        Tne leader of HI A opined that;
 we are certain that the Iranian nation does not agree with       the
 government’s policy      on
 Afghanistan. He also alleged that certain Iranian elements were opposed to the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and instead advocated the establishment of a coalition government that would include even Najib the head of the puppet communist regime in Kabul.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991

*Page 13 WKM
         Turks spread Islam in Yugoslavia. Muslims ruled there for centuries. Even today, Muslim population in Yugoslavia touches the figure of 20%. Though Marshall Tito did his best to maintain unity of his country but after his death in 1980 signs of disintegration began to appear.
         The story of Muslim suppression in Yugoslavia is very long and painful. Though still under an oppressive rule the wave of awakening is raging. Muslims demanded to be registered as Muslims when the first census was held after the world war II. But they were not allowed and in Serbia, Croatia, Slovania, Kosov and Mcqdonia they were registered as ethnic minority. The federation          of
 Yugoslavia assumed its present shape in 1918.
 Since then, due to the prejudiced and chauvenistic attitude of the Serbian majority towards the smaller nationalities, the country has been experiencing unrest and tension. The communist rulers have always been fanning Serbian nationalism in the Sebrian population.
 Now they are reaping the same harvest. In
            THE NATIONALITY PROBLEM

J
 place of providing employment to and solving the economic problems of Serbians, they were being fed on ultra nationalism. This has resulted in the country's move towards disintegration. Serbs being the majority population, constitute 70% of armed forces of the country. In thcbureaucracy too they have great influence. Slovenia and Croatia are the richest republics of the country but they arc in minority. They provide for a great part of the budget which is spent on the poorer republics. They are richer than Serbs.
         This is the Serbian superiority complex that compelled the minorities to struggle for cesession. Slovenia and Croatia have already declared their independence .Apart from ethnicity, religious considerations have also played a
 part in the war of nationalities. Slovenia and Croatia, for instance, are catholics while Serbia is Arthodox Christian. In December last year 80% of Slovenians voted in favour of independence from Yugoslavia. After that clashes ensued between Slovenian nationalists and the Federal Army consisting mainly of Serbs. Like Slovenia, Croatia set out on a struggle of freedom. In response the Serbian minority residing in Croatia, decided to annex its territory to Serbia. Many have been killed in these clashes. At first there was no noteworthy international support for the freedom movement but later on America and Russia supported the peaceful resolution of the problem.
                                                                                               In neighbouring Austria and Hungary people supported the cause
of the freedom movement in Slovenia. Half of Austrian population consists of ethnic Slovenians. Some countries after the aggression by the Federal Army, signalled that if aggression by the federal army continued they would consider recognition of the independence of Slovenia and Croatia. In the wake of struggle for independence in Yugoslavia the European community declared to send a 50 member non-military team to study the situation. It also presented a peace plan to the effect of cessation of hostilities, suspension of the independence declaration for 3 months and to find a peaceful negotiated settlement of the issue.
                                                       The Mujahideen, September , 1991
         The war in the republics dies down off and on but the tension persists. The Federal Army wants to capture the out posts of the two republics for which neither of the republic’s Governments is ready to accept. In addition to this, the two republics have distributed arms among their residents to resist the Federal Army’s thrust. The European nations have paid scant attention to the issue. They want to see the secessionist problem resolved to their satisfaction. They fear the failure in resolving the problem might result into world war like situation in Europe. ChancelorKohl of Germany observed recently that a counry cannot be maintained by tanks.
     If America and Europe recognize Croatia and Slovenia as independent states the emergence of two other Islamic states Bosinahe-rzegovina and Kosov from Yugoslavia will appear logical.
     The Government of Yugoslavia had blamed Muslims o            f
Bosinahcrzegovina of attempting to establish an Islamic state in 1984. The authorities had recovered a document of “Islamic declaration” containing the, resolve of destroying the
                 • Page 14
unlslamic forces. An important personality in herzogovina wrote in 1985,” Better to shut down all the Muslim schools and Madrassas.” The second future Islamic state Of Kosov where Muslims are 90% is the victim of Serbians. From 1981 to 1983 about 1000 Muslims belonging to 73 “illegal” organizations were arrested. On April 4, 1984 a newspaper of Zegrib wrote: “At least one member of every Muslim family was arrested”.
         The Serbian president while presenting report on April 12, 1984 in the presidium declared proudly: "In Kosov we took severe steps to stop riots. That was the only way left. We sent people to jail even for a minor crime. We had no patience for them.” In Kosov there is a virtual martial law since 1981. These conditions point to the creation of Islamic states out of Yugoslavia.
         Now that Yugoslavia is on the verge of splitting into several independent states, the world Muslims must rise to the occasion. As in the case of Baltic States the Western powers supported their cause of independence forcefully but ignored the central Asian Muslim Republics. The same is the case with the Yugoslavian republics. The west is interested in freedom movements of Croatia and Slovenia but does not heed to Muslim population demands for freedom. This is a glimpse of the proposed new world order. What is sought for the non-Muslim population is different from what is prescribed for the Muslims. Muslims of the world must wake up from the deep slumber. They must differentiate between their friend and foe. It is only for them to take up the cause of Yugoslavian Muslims in every world forum to save them from slavery.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991                  ,     Page 15
              1 A. ;                   X/ 
  THE LIBERATION MOVEMENT IN KASHMIR   ll 
            AND THE WORLD                 
✓               --- . , 1 --           1  
  M             > 1                       
I
        The Kashmir issue, basically, is an issue of human rights. The people in Kashmir, numbering about 12 millions are constantly denied their right to self-determination and self-government. Their national, political, economic, soical, cultural and civil freedoms are continously attacked. Many third world nations have gained independence after world War II. But Kashmiris still under the alien rule. Looking at the struggle Kashmins have launched for the last two years one is assured of their ultimate success.
        The movement for the liberation of Kashmir is an historical process. The Kashmir problem was the direct result of the division plan of the Indian subcontinent in 1947. Pakistan and India became independent on August 14 and 15, 1947 respectively, on the basis of two-nation theory, implying, Hindus and Muslims arc two different peoples thus deserving two different sovereign states.
Kashmir, then a princely state, was also to be made a part of Pakistan because it was Muslim majority area.
It would be in conformity with the decided principle by Hindu, Muslims and British rulers to the-effect that Muslim majority areas be included in Pakistan while Hindu majority areas be made part of India. But in the case of Kashmir         this
consensual principle was violated by the British rulers and Hindu leaders. They were joined by the non Muslim Dogra Maharja of Kashmir, Hari Singh, to annex Kashmir to India.
        To superimpose the will of Hari Singh over the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Kashmiri Muslims, who aspired to join Pakistan, was a blatant violation of all the democratic norms. The question arises why the last British vicerory to India Lord Mounthbatten and Hindu leaders like Gandhi and Nehru were so much interested in separating Kashmir from Pakistan? Already we are provided with the answer. They thought, Kashmir being a strategically important area, without which Pakistan would always remain vulnerable to India geographicaly . It was due to this importance that Qaidi Azam called Kashmir the jugular vein of Pakistan. Moreover, the retaining of Kashmir by India was meant to give India a dominant position in the sub-continent. What the leaders of Hindu Congress like Acharia Korplani and Krishna Menon wrote to
Kashmiris outside their gutted homes
 The Mujahideen, September, 1991    ■-          ^  ••       Page 16      ffi
Mountbatten before the division of the sub-continent meant that after division all the regions will one day reunite. It implied the eventual destruction of Pakistan. This wish on the part of Hindus was completely shared by British colonialists. This wish proved decisive in making the Muslim Kashmir a part of India.
        The Muslims of Kashmir were betrayed and they rose against this cruel decision. They started a sanguinary struggle to topple the illegal and puppet administration in the held vally. They were about to accomplish this task when the then Indian Prime Minister JawaharLal Nehru put brake on the tern poof the liberation movement by taking the Kashmirissuc to UNO. The UN passed a resolution advising India to hold a plebiscite in Kashmir on the question whether they join Pakistan or India. India accepted the resolution. But it has not implemented it so far. They fear the decision of Kashmiri Muslims in the plebiscite in favour of Pakistan. Recently in “Hindustan Times” an article was published. It said “that every state election in Kashmir was rigged by India. At last Muslim population rose against the central Government to rule themselves”.
        The UNO has failed in its obligations towards Kashmiris. Now in the wake of the freedom movement in Kashmir the UN must play its role in implementing its resolution as it did in the case of Iraq. It punished Iraq for violating its resolutions but still is unable to repeat the same in the case of India. It is a great test for the future of the United Nation.
        Nowadays there is talk of a new world order based on equality and non-aggression among the nations. Kashmir is a test case for the said world order. The world major powers arc morally bound to show the same degree of enthusiasm shown for the liberation of Kuwait. Is there, in terms of human aspect, any difference between Kashmir and Kuwait? Certainly not. In case they f deal with the Kashmir issue on different footing, then the Muslims will be entitled to question the legitimacy of the NOW and lebal it a weapon against the Muslims.
        The Muslim countries have a special responsibility in this case. Kashmir, being a Muslim population, deserves the support and assistance of the Muslims thcworld over. Unity among Muslims is the cardinal principle of Islam. To prove solidarity with the cause of Kashmiri freedom struggle is in the line with the teachings of great Muslims like Jamaluddin Afghani, Allama Iqabal and Shah Hamadan who were fond of Kashmir aswcll as Muslim progress. ^
m
 ip
 1
 1
  !;>X;
  II
  SI
  WjX-l
  p

                                    Health
c

Fast Walk- A Good
                               Recipe)

          For healthy mind healthy body is a must. But for healthy body somethings areessential.They are balanced nutrition, rest and exercise. As for exercise morning walk takes precedence over all other forms of physical exercises. But lethargy or lack of public parks keep us from this beneficial habit. Somewhere there are public parks but no walker somewhere we have walkers but no park. Walker or not all agree on the point—walking is a good exercise. With this one can live active and happy.
          There are people who are not aware of the benefits one can gain from morning walk. They think it a wastage of time and are not ready to sacrifice their sweet sleep in morning. What modem medical research tells us is on the contrary. It suggests that walk can relieve us from many deadly diseases. The people who take regular walk live longer than those who avoid it. Wecan witness a good number of old persons in parks. They possess enviable physique and active minds. They make a distance between them and diseases.
          Walking is very very necessary for heart patients or for those who have taken a by-pass, doctors advise walking more than medicines. Doctors say a regular walk makes it easy to cure a heart patient. A regular walk from the early age saves us from heart attack. It is also very helpful in preventing high blood pressure.
          Fatness is the mother of diseases. By taking fast walk we can fight fatness and become slim and smart. A research shows that in a period of two to three months, more than 100 pound of weight can be reduced in this way. In this coanection one thing is to notice. Fast walk is more beneficial than slow one. For a habitual walker it becomes very difficult to abandon this habit. Sometimes when he could not find time for walk, he passes a bore day. fast walk has a refreshing effect on health. Morning walk refreshes health. It rejuvenates.
          In addition to heart patients, walk is advised for men suffering from cancer. They must take long walk. Medical research indicates long walk keeps one young for long years. Work capacity increases because freshness envelopes all the body and one remains in good moods till he goes to bed. It is also important for joint-pain because it gives strength to muscles. Light exercise and jogging in morning harden shoulders, arms, belly and legs. To discard it is very harmful.
          Like doctors psychologists also advise walking. One should take walk when under mental pressure. Similarly, in case of noise in house or when there is no lime for a creative activity, one must take a fast walk. Itrefreshes mind and prepares one for serious work. Likewise, diabetics and men with weak eyesight are advised walk. The views of greenery and rising sun in morning affect eyesight positively. Pregnant women should take walk. It makes them healthy. So what not? Long life, free from ailments and good health. One small sacrifice can gain us a lot; the very sacrifice of taking pains for a fast and long walk.
-12


_
                                              The Mujahideen, September, 1991               Wmmmmmmmmmm Page 17

                    Hekmatyar Says
  Ouster of Najib Regime, Only Solution
          Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan has said that the days of Kabul regime are numbered and the regime is in a state of confusion.
          Taking to Afghan New Agency on wireless set from Logar, he said that no one guarantee the survival of Najib regime. There is no other way for the solution of Afghan problem except the ouster of Najib regime and that should be done at the handsof Mujahideen,he added.
          The most popular Afghan leader made it clear that there is no room for any kind of dialogue or entering into coalitition regime with Najib. There is also no chance of any compromise with Najib on future of Afghanistan, he strssed.
          Eng ineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar said that he is passionately waiting for the replacement of Najib regime at the hands of Mujahideen.
          As for as Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is concerned. Jihad would continue till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, he added.
          Explaining the policy of HIA, he said that we want the replacement of the Kabul regime by an interim government. The interim government should be entrusted with the task of holding elections and transferring power to an elected government of the Afghan masses, he added.
          Engineer Hekmatyar further said that whoever removed Najib regime, that should he followed by establishment of an interim regime. If HI A succeeded in toppling the Kabul regime all alone, even then we would announce establishment of an interim government, he assured.
          The Amir of HIA said that those people who are worried at the prospects of
 the toppling of Najib regime at the hands of Mujahideen, are infact, interested in keeping the Najib regime infact.
          He said that HIA would foil the conspiracies of anti-Islamic forces. Engineer Hekmatyar further said that some western powers along with some other weak elements in Afghan society, enjoying foreign patron age, are worried at the prospects of the toppling of the Najib regime at the hands of
 Mujahideen. We do not want to waste our time by engaging ourselves with such west sponsoved elements, rather we would stand against their masters.
          About the rumorus of the expected coup-de-etat in kabul he said that when such an eventuality happened. We would make our stand public, HIA always makes its policy clear on all issues.
          He, however, said that our stand is quite clear that the present regime has to go; we could not be satisfied with anything less then it. Afghan nation should be provided an opportunity to elect an Islamic government of their own and hand over power to those who enjoy their confidence.
          Engineer Hekmatyar made it clear that Afghan nation would never accept any foreign sponsored or imposed government in Afghanistan, whether they control a village, a province or the whole state. HIA would fight against such imposed regimes and would
 stand by the oppressed masses in all circumstances.
          Responding to a question, the HIA Amir said that some elements have no role in Afghanistan; neither positive nor negative; They are left with only one job i.e issuing statments to the newspapers and going interviews to the BBC.
          Engineer Hekmatyar advised such elements to remain in their limits. They should eat as much as they could swallow, he said. Such elements are neither able to play a role to bring about some change. Nor they could blocks the coming change. However, if they are capable of doing anything, they should come back to Afghanistan and fight against Najib regime.
          Engineer Hekmatyar said that HIA is interested in combined attacks of Mujahideen on Kabul, followed by formation of a collective interim government. HIA is not interested in hatching conspiracies or coup-d-etat to take overpower. HIA, he said, would also not allow other elements to grab power through illegal means. He said, HIA would never support, or take part in any such activity which does not result in the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
          Engineer Hekmatyar further said that HIA is in touch with a good number of Afghan organization and Mujahideen commanders and they have agreed with us on a joint attacks on Kabul. Only some paper parties in Peshawar are issuing false statement to Pakistan; newspaper and are opposing joint attacks of Mujahideen.
          He, however, expressed his confidence in Afghan masses, who could not be deceived by false propaganda. Afghan peoplenow judge leaders and their parties by their actions and characters. Afghan people have rejected all such foreign sponsored leaders and organizations who are derious of finding some solution of the Afghan problem through the dictates of soviet Union and America.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991

lan l aqir Ahmai
         Honey is a rich food and healing medicine. Even in yore times man was well aware of its good effects on health. In ancient Egypt there was a wide recognition of the benefits honey brought to human beings. The food that was believed to be procured to the Greek Gods ;was prepared from honey.
         The renowned "Hakeem", doctor, in the bygone ages, Boqratus, had lived for 107 years. The reason for his longivity was said to be honey as his routine diet. The doctors and philosophers in Greece thought honey as a ready made elixir. Plutarc, a Roman historian, wrote that the English people lived up to the age 120 years because they used honey a lot. "Hakeen" Jalinoos writes about honey as a cure for many diseases. In the Christian old testament honey is mentioned 21 times. In the Holy Qura ’an too honey is described as 'Shifa, that heals. Centuries before, when soldiers were injured in wars, physicians administered old honey to them. In short from Hindus to Muslims all knew it as a very beneficial prescription for health. Allah Almighty has made it a thing envigorating and revitalizing. It is regretful that we spend too much on tea, coffee and cigarettes but ignore honey, a precious natural gift. Likewise we pay big sums for doctors’ and "Hakeem" fees but don’t pay a penny for honey while it promises deliverance from many diseases. There arc three kinds of bees. Queen, that lays eggs. Male bee who does mating with the queen and the worker that is short lived and has no sex. Its utility lies somewhere else. The great struggle of the worker bee can be judged from the fact that it brings every day nectar weighing 500 times its own
 weight. To produce a spoonful honey the worker bee has to visit 2000 flowers. To get one pound honey the worker has to undertake 37,000 visits to flowers. One pound honey needs four pound flower nectar. If the distance between the hive and flowers is three miles, a worker bee has to travel a distance equal to four or five times around the world for making one pound honey.
         Honey is of two kinds, one is white, crystal clear, thin and sweet. It is said to be the best kind of honey. The second kind is brownish and thick. It is usually used in medicine. The flavour and taste of honey always depend on the flowers sucked by bees. Honey is producccd twice in the year once in the spring and then in fall.
         Honey is produced in many countries but the Miditeranean is the most famous. Hungary is the largest producer of honey. Apart from Hungary, Purtugal, Germany, France, Australia, North America, west Indies and Pakistan provide honey. In Pakistan Swat and Hazara produce most of the honey found in the country.
         Honey contains water 17% and special sugar 75%. This is a particular kind of sugar that is more digestive and envigorating than common sugar. Besides these, it contains Iron, copper, calcium, Phosphorus, sodium, protein and vitamins etc.
         Honey is very useful for health. It can be used in every weather and age. It is digestive and potent. It corrects stomach disorders and is a good applelizer. It is good for stomach diseases. It purifies blood. Itinduces deep sleep. It builds body and increases sexual capability. Honey brightens one’s complexion. It is good for diabetese, cough, cold, swelling, bronchites, and heart. It reduces fatness. In the winter you can have a spoonful of it with half glass warm water and in the summer with half glass cold water.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
& Page 19
mmmmt
MEMORANDUM
 Here ,we at the Mujahideen are reproducing a brief survey of the major discussions that occupied the participating members of the 20th session of the {OIC} Foreign Ministers meeting in Istanbul, Turkey, 1991, as seen from the view point ofMotamar Al-Alam Al-Islami first founded in Mecca A l-Mukar amah in 1926 and now based in Karachi. The ideas were extracted by Yasin Murtadah and presented by Abu Abdurahman
20TH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE ISLAMIC CONFERENCE OF FOREIGN MINISTERS {OIC} AT ISTANBUL (TURKEY) 4TH TO
                    8TH AUGUST 1991
Yasin Murtadah and Abu Abdur Rahman
          Dr. lnamullah Khan; the Secretary General of World Muslim Congress writes:
          Today the Muslim countries form nearly one-third of the UN’s membership. But due to lack of proper unity in our ranks, we do not carry enough weight in the world’s fora which, otherwise, would have made us holders of the balance of power in all important matters. Due to various reasons, including lack of enough knowledge, we today only imitate others, whereas we were once the standard-bearers of learning, science and technology. A turn-about is badly needed, without loosing the much-needed forward-look.
                       PALESTINE PROBLEM
          The OIC extensively discussed the Palestinian issue and once again re-asserted the fact that: Al-Quds and occupied lands are Muslim territories and that Zionists occupation does not alter this basic fact what so ever and that the Islamic Ummah is duty bound before Allah and humanity to continue its struggle and to exert all efforts to secure the liberation of these usurped lands. The Muslims warmly appreciate the sincere and just struggle (including that of the
 Intifadah) of the people of Palestine, especially the active part played by the entire populace and the martyrdom of youngsters apd the womenfolk, for attaining the inalienable basic rights of the people of Palestine.
          In the matter of latest efforts for peace settlement it looks that Israel is bent upon blackmailing others in this regard. Israel is asking US a series of concessions or assurances. Israel is asking USA and the Arab world to stop complaining about the Jewish settlements in the occupied territories and is demanding US $10 billion in loan guarantees for the settlement of Soviet Jewish emigrants. Israelis also want assurances that they would not be pressured into trading land for peace. They also want permanent assurances on the matterof occupied Golan Heights and won’t agree on any negotiations on peace in the Middle East.
          Is it not time that we, the people and the governments of the Ummah Islamiyah, take stock of the new situations and ask ourselves as to why this and similar other things are happening to us? The answer is simple: our disunity and insincerity.
          The Arabs have gone more than extra mile for peace. Very recently in July 1991, the four front-1 ine Arab States—Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Saudi Arabia — have agreed to a Series of conditions and compromising attitude. Compared to this apparently humiliating Arab flexibility the Israelis posture is most rigid high handed and negative. The crucial issue of the ‘intifadah’ for a genuine Palestinian state seems to be out of question now. And w ith American presidential election due next year, it is doubtful if, for the sake of the Arabs, Mr. Bush would be willing to annoy the powerful Zionist lobby in USA.
                            TheWorld of Islam: Muslim from different places confiding together f------------------------------------------------------ .                                                     \
                                       THE CRY OF KASHMIRIS
           The Kashmir issue is not the minority problem of a country. It involves an overwhelming majority of the indigenous people in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, whose formal status, so far remains undetermined. The Kashmir problem is not an internal matter of any state as often deceptively portrayed by the Indian Government, contrary to its recognized international character. The State of Jammu and Kashmir is a disputed territory and is seized with the UN Security. Council, whose final status is to be decided by its own people, through a fair impartial plebiscite, under the auspices of the United Nations, as per UN resolutions.
           The blatant violation of human rights is widespread but the human rights abuses is horribly devastating. The Government of India and the Indian armed forces, as the occupation authorities in the Indian-held State of Jammu and Kashmir, with their inhuman atrocities has outdone the Gestapo cruelties in occupied Europe, prior to the 2nd world War. Even the human rights abuses by Israelis against Arabs in occupied Palestine falls behind the Indian inhuman cruelties.
           While elimination of the Kashmir Question has been India’s long-term policy, from the year 1990, began with an unprecedented determination and severity to implement it. As such the already pungent black laws were greatly strengthened and enlarged, long-standing occupied forces of India were multifariously buttressed and enhanced,and the Indian-occupation administration was tightened and centralised by various New Delhi Governments.
           Under the newly conceived contrivances a large-scale extermination is necessary, by the Indian authorities, in order to suppress the increasing demand of its rights and to quell the growing movement for self-determination, justice, and freedom from this ruthless occupation. Thus a reign of terror was unleashed and is still going on.
           So intense and extensive have been the calamities that the whole Indian-occupied Valley of Kashmir has virtually turned into a perpetual operation theatre of horror and genocide by the Indian forces. All men, women and children, throughout the Valley have been terrorized with singularly cataclysmic effects. Every day in Indian-occupied Kashmir has become a day and rape, detention, arson, loot and desolation. It is not possible to recount all the dehumanized tactics that the occupation authorities and forces of India continuously and systematically subjected on the indigenous majority people of Kashmir. A detailed report about it has been submitted to the UN’s Commission on human Rights by the World Muslim Congress {Motamar Al-Alam Al-Islami} earlier this year. Now, we are happy to see, some Western media has started a media-exposure of India’s barbarism and many Western parliamentarians are talking and even moving towards concerned resolution to stop these barbaric actions.

 The Mujahideen, September, 1991
 Page 20

                                                                                                               The Mujahideen, September , 1991
Page 21 ......
                            AFGHANISTAN
          The popular armed resistance of Muslims in Afghanistan has not abated. The imperialist superpowers are still bent on intruding in Afghan Internal Affairs by supporting the Marxist regime in Kabul. The Ummah Islamiyah through its Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers must evolve pragmatic and operational plans of Action for meaningful settlement and for restructuring of Afghanistan and not rest content with only pious resolutions or by merely doling out some charities. The World Muslim Congress {Motamar} herein salutes all the unknown but brave 1.3 million men, women and children, who gave their lives in this fight for freedom and to liberate Afghanistan. Simultaneously we should not forget the over 5 million Afghan people who were forced to flee from their homeland and sought refuge especially in the neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran. There is now fear of famine in Afghanistan.
          The gravest issue, at present, is the formation of an accepted government in Kabul agreed by all the Mujahideen groups and the next biggest issue is that of the all-round reconstruction and rehabilitation in Afghanistan. The UN’s Secretary-General has also come forward with a plan for solving the Afghan problem. This has been carefully studied by the leaders of the Afghan Mujahideen and also by the OIC. The propect of such a plan working well is doubtful in view of the fact that outside forces are bent on imposing their aims and objectives on Afghans and none of the so-called peace-initiator is ready to give the generality of Afghan populace the unconditional rights of self determination and true independence. Care, before formal elections, have to be taken for the Transition period.
G
        CRISIS IN OTHER PEACES
           There are other crisis situations in other parts of Muslim world such as.
 Iran, Turkey and a few other places, also need the most serious urgent attention of the world of Islam for an honorable and amicable settlement, to start with the Kurds of Iraq who have been assured democracy and autonomy. The history of the Kurds go back to the glorious days of Sultan Salahuddin Ayyubi.
 (c)      Cyprusissue: ThelslamicConference was urged of Foreign Ministers to set up a representative Commission, with the mandate to resolve the Cyprus issue, which is under fire for the last 15 years, on the basis of the repeated call of the Cyrprus Islamic Turkish peoples, in seeking the establishment of a bi-zonal, bi-communal Federal Republic in Cyprus.
          The World Muslim Congress {the Motamar) appeals to all the leaders of the Muslim countries and the Muslim community to exert politically and economically. Muslims want peace in the land of Cyprus but on the basis of justice and equity.
 (d)      The Filipino Muslim Struggle: We appeal to the ICFM to declare its unanimous support for the Bangsa Moro Islamic Nation’s right of self-determination. We appeal to the 20th session of ICFM to use its strong and weighty influency with the Philippines government to honour its commitments to the Muslim peoples of the Philippines interims of the Tripoli Agreement and similar other agreements with the MNLF.
 (e)      Ethiopia: Ethiopia is a historical land. It is known to the Muslims from the lime of the Holy Prophet. It was under Haile Selassie that during whose era wild efforts were made to make it a Christian country. Conditions became worse under the cruel Haile Mariam Mengustu. Thanks be to Allah that he ran away to Zimbabwe to save his life. This Muslim population, is so far so badly neglected, but forms 74%. Believers in Islam in this part of the world are looking up to the Ummah Islamiyah in general and the OIC in particular to come to their rescue. They surely need help and assistance especially socio-economic and cultural.
 (f)      Eritrea: Eritrea, historically a Muslim land, because of its Islamic identity became a victim of Western colonialism. It was forced to be federated (with self-autonomy clause) with Ethiopia so as to provide Ethiopia with sea ports. In 1962 and in violation of UN resolution, Ethiopia annexed Eritrea and made it its province. The world, the UN and majority of the Muslim countries also kept inexcusable silence on this delicate but important issue. From 1962 started the real armed freedom struggle of the Eritreans and by their heroic struggle, the Eritrean freedom-fighters have taken the control of their homeland from the Ethiopian occupation force. From the very beginning the world Muslim Congress {the Motamar) had been supporting the Eritrean in their just struggle. It was our world Muslim Congress {the Motamar) which sent the first Eritrean delegate to the UN in the early sixties. The OIC must take up the Eritrea issue and see that Eritrea becomes an independent sovereign Muslim country and a member-state of the OIC.
(a) Iraq:- The saddest of all such tragedies is the lamentable situation in Iraq to-day. Peace, equity and democracy are the greatest needs for Iraq. These require concerted approach by the Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers.
(g)       Famine: Again this year there is all the likelihood that widespread menace of famine has started threatening Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia, Sudan, Shad, Mali, Mauritania, etc. The world Muslim Congress {the Motamar) urges that the OIC must activate effective and meaningful action plan to avert this menace of famine.
 (b) The long-hanging matter of the Kurds, specially in Iraq,
 ______________________________________________________________(h)______Muslim Minority Communities: Out of over 1300 million,
                                                        The Mujahideen, September, 1991
                       • Page 22 .
 Muslim peoples of the world 450 million Muslims live as minority communities in non-Muslim states of the world. In many places they enjoy substantial rights but in many other places their rights are badly trampled and we see racism, religious intolerance and denial of basic human rights to many Muslim communities, varying in degree, such as in India, Greece, Yugoslavia, France and in many other parts of the world. All these must change. We urge upon the OIC, specially the ICFM and its Muslim Minority Commission, to present to the world, especially to the international fora, all such cases so as to work for the restoration of the basic hum an rights of Muslim minorities, especially their religious, social and cultural rights. We want no favour but justice.
 (i)      Rights of the Child: We are most thankful to the UNICEF for taking such a direct interest in the matter of Children. The children of today are the citizens of tomorrow. The world Muslim Congress {the Motamar) urges upon all Muslim governments to set up Special Children’s Commission in each Member-state to study their problems with a view to solve them, as well as an OIC’s Commission on the Child’s Rights.
 (j)      Other Issues: There are various other issues which are also
 of grave importance for the Muslim world e.g. the need of nuclear energy and technology for peaceful purpose and development. Need for the whole Muslim world is to become a Nuclear-weapon Free Zone. Furthermore to make our environment free from all pollutions for the future well-being of all humanity also deserve the serious attention of all thinking peoples of the world.
Another Mujahideen's victory:- Captured Communist ammunition base
r                                                                                                   ^
                     ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE MUSLIM COUNTRIES
      There are fifty independent Muslim countries in the world today.
               All the Muslim countries, except a few won political independence after a long sustained struggle and after heavy sacrifice but economic independence is not there as desired and hence our socio-sufferings. We have to learn to solve our own problem not merely looking up to the charities of others.
               The world Muslim Congress (the Motamar) has been presenting studies on Islamic economic cooperation and on the creation of a Muslim Common Market, on the occasion of the meeting of the INFMs, since 1970 at Karachi and at all the subsequent conferences. Fortunately some of our suggestion have been accepted and also partially implemented but not with full vigour. The world Muslim Congress sincerely wishes once again to repeat the following suggested plan of Action, in brief, for the kind consideration of the august body:
      A)       Islamic Planning Commission: In order to avoid haphazard planning and duplication of efforts, we must start the process by establishing an Islamic International Planning Commission.
      B)       Islamic Common Market: We once again ugre the honorable Foreign Ministers of member countries of OIC to set up the Islamic Common Market, with a view to build up a world-wide Islamic Economic Community.
      C) Islamic Manpower Bank: Similarly there is great need for creating an Islamic available in the Muslim world
      and arrange their placement in the countries that need them.
                                                      The Mujahideen, September , 1991 Mmmmmmmmmmm Page 23 Wwmmm
  Election Process
   HIA affirms its Islamic Shurah principles in practice
         These varios photograhs show the Executive council members of Hezb-i-IsIami Afghanistan casting their own respective votes
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
                                               The Mujahideen, September, 1991 ffi..                      Page 24    mmfflmm
 in HIA underway
The Mujahideen, September, 1991 Mm
                                         
I III ISLAMIC MOVEMENTS AND THEIR FUTURE 
  *                                      
I'ninsl;ilal Irom I'rdu by Mian hiqir Ahtnail
                                                   The real achievement of Islamic movements
        At the advent of the 20th century Islam was in a very poor state in the world. The Hadith of our prophet Mohammad (PBUH), that.’Tn the beginning Islam was unfamiliar to the people and in the future again, Islam will become unfamiliar to the people”, aptly described the situation in which religion of Islam was placed. At the most Muslim scholars were serving Islam through presenting apologies in the face of western civilization. But the general public, on the contrary, were fully devoted to their religion. The problem was how to chanelise their love with religion. It was neither the task of a demagogue nor of a philosopher. It involved a long term strategy and leadership quality.
        The difficult and complex task of starting the Islamic movement             was
accomplished by Maulana Maudodi in the Indian subcontinent and Imam Hasnal Bana in Egypt. Besides them, in this field some other personalities also played their part though their efforts remained confined to their own regions and problems.
They are for instance, Abdul Hamid Bin Badis in Algyria, Badiuzzaman Norsi in Turkey and Shikh Ahmad Alzahavi in Iraq. Those were the men who brought Islam to the mainstream. Islam was thought to be a mere theory, they introduced it as
a solution of all practical problems of the world. They told the people that Islam has a civilization, nay, the best civilization of the world. Those people were different from their contemporaries in a great respect, namely, they showed the world that Islam is not a mere bunch of ri tuals but a complete code of li fe. Not only that, they also prepared enthusiastic workers who are busy now to attain the goal of making Islam the driving force of the civilization. They are working for Islamic revolution.
                                                       What is the Islamic revolution?
         A civilizational revolution is not a job of days, months or years. It is the name of a long process for change. To remove the effects of the dominant civilization, to prepare human beings who go against the present wave in all walks of life and with the help of such human beings to create a society
fashioned fully on the Islamic values and injunctions. That is what we call an Islamic revolution.
  Two ways to the destination
         To reach the destination of the Islamic revolution the Islamic movements have taken a two-way approach for the purpose. One is the individual reformation approach and the second is the collective reformation approach. The individual approach says that since society is the total sum of individuals comprising it, so to reform and purify the individuals would result in the reformation and purification of the whole society automatically. The collective approach, on the other hand, suggest that individual reformation alone will not work because institutions like Government, judiciary, banks, media and educational institutions would affect the individual purification negatively.
Therefore, it holds, to reform

The Mujahideen, September, 1991
mMim Page 26
 the dominant institutions be preferred to preaching individuals. The Islamic movements have adopted both the ways of individual reformation and institutional reformation simultaneously.
           But it is not the individual approach that has brought all the unlslamic forces against the Islamic movements. If the individual approach were the only way to Islamise society, the unlslamic elements would not oppose them. In reality their struggle to change the unlslamic governments and institutions have made the anti-islamic circles enemy to the Islamic ones. If the Islamic movements continue with their struggle with devotion, patience and prudence, they will succeed because it is in the nature of the right to succeed in the face of evil. Here is given a short account of the Islamic movements in different parts of the world.
                                     The Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt
        The Akhwanul Muslimoon of Egypt tolerated much hardships from 1954 to 1971. They faced jail, death, torture and economic shocks. Their party is still banned in Egypt. They appealed against the ban but the verdict is yet to be given by court. They have a journal named “Lawaul Islam”. They jointly work with a political group, “Hizbul Amalul Ishterakia” in the field of politics and elections. As legally they are banned they cannot work under their own label. In parliament they have 35 members who raise their voice for Islam ic system, justice, fair play, freedom and democracy. They have great influence in professional organizations like doctors, engineers, teachers and workers . According to an American analyst their movement is now a “people’s movement”. If free elections held, they would get a strong position. Women are
 example.
                                                The Islamic movement in Sudan
        Working in their peculiar conditions the Islamists are struggling to unite all sections of society in a common front. On the other hand they are working to influence the elements of the military junta. They are treading a wise path. Due to the Christians’ conspiracies they do not confront but try to get cooperation from the military. Women in Sudan are very active for the cause of Islam. The movement has relieved them of the chains of tribal traditions and instead introduced the real restrictions Islam prescribes.
                                                  National Islamic front
        This is a political movement working to bring people to its fold. Tanzeem Dawat Islami: This chalks out and implements its plans for Dawat (Preaching) and training. International Relief Agency: It works not only in Sudan but its branches are operating in many African and Asian countries.
                                 The Movement in Jordan
         ‘Akhwanul Muslimoon’ have an effective group in the parliament. In all they have 30 members in parliament. Jordan is a small country of 4 million population. The Islamic movement is working there under great stress and strain. They are directly influenced by Intifadah movement. They are spreading their influence while faced with Israeli and American hostility for their sympathy with Intifadah. The kingship is also not favorable. They are working well but it is likely they will come across some trying conditions.
                                                     Refah party in Turkey
         Refah is the representative of Islamic movement in Turkey. They are working in a difficult situation. Jews have a great role in Turkish economy. Europe and America are also very in fluential in Turkey. They cannot afford to see Turkey an Islamic force. Then the country’s constitution does not allow politics under the name of religion because it is a secular country. But despite the odds the Islamic movement is busy in their Jihad. The youth are attracted largely to the movement. The literature of Maulana Mauddi including
                                                     playing a great role in their success. The role of zenubul Ghazali is a great
Tafheemul Quran is spreading fast.
                                                  Tunisia and Algeria (north Africa)
        In Tunisia ‘Harkate Nahzat’ the Islamic movement, has been very successful! in influencing the youth. They went to the extent of toppling the unlslamic regime of Habib Boraqiba in 1988. But the new regime working under an anti-Islam ruler, zainul Abideen Bin Ali, is bent on suppressing the Islamic movement. About 10,000 pro movement workers are imprisoned. 11 Youth of them died in jail. The regime is relentlessly using its radio, television and newspapers to malign the movement. Will it work? Did the rulers succeed in the past?
        Algeria is the victim of one-party socialist dictatorship from its independence in 1962. Bin Bila laid the foundation of a wrong system. Hawari Bomedein entrenched the dictatorial system. He did his utmost to destroy the Islamic values for 25 years. As a result the country came to the brink of economic and moral insolvency. At last the great youth of Algeria returned to their origin. They came under the banner of Islamic Salvation Front. In 1989 theFrontgained majority in provincial and local bodies elections. They were preparing to
participate in the general elections that the government, under the pressure from Europe, prepared an electoral mechanism which would deprive the Front of its success. The Front protested over it and the government, making the protest as an excuse, declared emergency and postponed the general elections indefinitely. Now the government and the Front (in reality the people) are pitched against each other. The Front has rejected the emergency and the tension is continuing. The government of Shazli Bin Jadid may take a respite but its death is certain.
                                                             Malaysia
          The Islamic movement working in Malaysia is called “PASS” as its short name. It has been working since 1951. It played its part in the struggle for independence. Malaysia became independent in 1957. This movement is now working to make the country a truly Islamic state. Its influence is spreading to educational institutions fastly.
         Recently, for Islamic movement, a new field of activity has opened in central Asian republics who are on their way to full independence. There is the need of great efforts. They have thirst for their original religion.
ButQuran, Sunnah and Islamic teachings should be taught on a large scale. Jamat Islami Pakistan has published more than 20 books in Russian, Tafheemul Quran included. This work needs to be boosted.
                                                  The successes of the Islamic movement
                                                                                                          These can be summed up as
follows:
-The Islamic movements have revitalized Islam as a complete code of life.
                                                 -The difference between Islam and Jahiliya (ignorance) was brought to light.
-The spirit for the supremacy of Islam was revived through inspiring the Muslims to enforce Islam as a system.
-It has revived the spirit of Jihad. Influenced by the imperialistic propaganda this spirit was once abandoned. The effect of this spirit can be seen in Kashmir, Afghanistan, Palestine, Philippine and Eritrea, etc.
-It has prepared a full generation who are now struggling to make Islam a dominant religion.
-This struggle is the way to make Muslims an international power.
The Mujahideen, Septcuber, 1991
Page 28
       Before to say something on the subject, it is imperative to recognize that in philosophy this is the subject that is the most difficult and delicate. The difficulty arose mainly for people who want to solve it with reason alone.
       All know that the capacity of human mind is limited while the Being of Allah Almighty has no limits. Rationality and logic agree that limitless cannot be put into limited. To understand this point will help us in understanding all other points. We do not hold that the existence of Allah (Swt) is contrary to rationality. There is difference in contrary to rationality and above rationality. It is one thing to be contrary to rationality and something other to be above nationality.
       Human wisdom offers testimony to the reality that according to the law of ‘cause and effect’ nothing can come into existance by itself. The existence of the universe and the greatest order workiong in its every part indicate that there is some one behind all this drama. But the One who controls all the world is so great that it is beyond the vision of the human mind to comprehend Him fully.
       Once an atheist asked a saint to prove the existence of God. The saint said to the atheist, “You are sitting on a chair. Is there, to your opinion, any maker of the chair or was it made without a maker”? The atheist said that the chair has certainly a maker and to deny it is madness. On this the saint observed that if to deny the maker of an ordinary chair is madnees then what place a man deserves who does not recognize the maker of the whole universe.
                                                                                                                               Faqir Ahmad
        The same arguments were offered by Hazrat Iamam Abu Hanifa, the great jurisprudent of Islam, to a group of atheists. He asked if they could imagine a boat, full of men, to sail the river waters without a sailor? The atheists replied in negative. To this Imam Abu Hanifa said if this is against reason then what about a complex world without a controller. The atheists understood the point and embraced Islam.
        The scholars of Islam hold that the reason for Allah Almighty not seen by us are two. One that He is the nearest. Second that He is the most visible. You cannot see the nearest, for example, you cannot see a paper touching your eye lashes. Similarly, you cannot look at the greatest visibility of the sun. Then how to look and see the one who can create the suns million times bright of the sun of our world. Allah is the nearest to human beings as Qur’an tells us that Allah (Swt) is nearer to you than your jugulac vein. Then how we could see him. As for the greaterst visibility, the nature surrounding us is his phenomenon. That is the reason we can’t see him.
        The Qur’an asks man to ponder over the system of the universe. To contemplat over the order working in the inner self of man and the outer nature compels one to recogning the one Who runs all the show. In every leaf of garden, every petal of grass, every blow of wind, every drop of rain, the smallest animal and its every organ, the flow of river the height of hill, the shine of moon, the rays of sun and in the attraction among planets and stars, you will notice a certain purpose and order. Is it all possible without a hidden supreme powqer? When the veil of prejudice is removed, Qur’an tells, the voice of human nature rises from the depths of heart recognizing the existence of Allah (Swt).
                                              The Mujahideen, September ,1991                      :     Page 29
:-:-w:xv:vXv:-:^:-:vX%v^

THE THRONE OF JUSTICE
                                        "Whal is my crime?" this little boy seems to be saying to the world oppressive system that's still
                                                                          protecting Kabul regime
         The present contradictory world tensions are uniformly sending out their messages of hope to billions of men suffering today in silence. It is indeed a sign of relief at last, to know that the usurped global seat of leadership is to be evacuated for good, and the battered throne of justice is to be restored back to rule. The world will surely be at peace if oppression could finally be put at bay and mankind stands the chance of a natural brotherhood if sanity is unconditionally released from jail. Despotism and totalitarianism are only advanced form of tyranny but injustice as a crime presents a broad spectrum of vices.
         The decade old Afghan revolution will serve well here as a reference, and its numerous achievements since inception have uncovered to us the conflicting nature of man-made ideologies. A major objective of the struggle is to retrieve back the denied right of self-determination. Even the general call for a representative Islamic government is only a plausible reality of this basic fundamental. There is nothing un-natural for a community in choosing the type of life they want to live in as much as that is an outcome of a popular consensus. For the Afghans to demand the right of sovereignty is not a new phenomenon in human historical developments. The real question lies in why others outside the radius of the community want to impose an unwanted regime on them?
           In this world of time and space, man is bound by laws outside his stretch. It is the divine-given right on earth that accords every one the liberty of choice. Each person is free to fashion his life and tastes as much as nature will permit him to do so, provided the collective survival of his society or a part there-of is not endangered in such a process.
The Mujahideen, September , 1991
Page 30 WM
         Similarly, it amounts to open betrayal as much as a violation of the principle of collective association for any government such as the muderous regime in Kabul, to claim representation of a nation then rises eventually above the will of the very people that make up the state.
         Islam is the basis of the ongoing resistance in Afghanistan and this faith does not subscribe to any notion of oppression and subjugation. It is therefore a struggle towards preservation of sanity, in a world besieged by arrogant rulers and imperial merchants. The so-called super-powers must never be allowed to act as plaintiffs, prosecutors and judges at the same time and no nation or international organization should be given the right of playing the role of a god on earth.
         On this note, Afghans have suffered denials from many quarters since the last half a century. First, by those royal lords and tribal chiefs whose selfish interests over-rode all dictates of collective independence. It was infact to their credit that they succeeded where many had failed, in selling-out the country. Second, by the puppet regime which sits conceited in Kabul with ignominy, afraid to face the people it claims to represent—neither in the battle fields nor at the electoral colleges. These foreign servants are not only executing
the orders of powerful imperialists with total dedication, but are themselves committed to a party-program of destroying the entire nation.
         The greatest betrayal however to the cause of freedom i n general, and to Afghan struggle in particular, comes from theexisting global system of justice. This not only provides a haven for the killer-regime in Kabul but also protects other repressive autocracies and despotic monarchies around the world. It is absolutely true that democracy since French and American revolutions has unflaggingly, been striving to lay claim to the disputed throne of a savior, in today’s so-called modem socio-political set-up.
         The unfortunate matter in this is the irresponsible attitude of its advocates in global courts of the masses. All the proofs and evidences, forwarded by the West in support of democracy, are heavily marred by proven instances of double-standard policies. Prejudice and discrimination are only outstanding lines of its numerous stripes of cracks. Never-the-less, the biggest flaw of all is the constant manipulation of the rule of law itself by the self appointed champions of liberty in the West.
         The international conspiracy against Afghan revolution is well known, but the country still retains the right of calling for a stop to foreign interference.
Afghanistan is entirely a Muslim community and the people need to be given the chance of following the dictates of their faith. W ithout the popular armed uprising against Red Army invaders and their protected stooges at home, the whole nation would have been by now annexed to become the latest victim of imperialist grandiose.
         It was an exceptional contribution to human progress and a real feat of achievement in the present world, that the Afghans as a nation hearkened to the call of faith and rallied round the principle of freedom. They surged out enmass in fighting the combined garrisons of traitors and advancing battalions of oppressors. This is in fact a very good precedence, for progenies yet to come, but more important to the course of history and for the search of global peace is the motivating goals behind Afghan resistance.
         Mujahideen’s progress towards Kabul has exposed the falsehood in Western theories of rights. Accusations against out-going ideologies today, present a broad array of their flaws. Though humanity accepts freedom as a must and equality as a norm but operating systems as at now, even by the so-called democratic states in the world, are nothing but 'refined variables of oppression. The charges against them
are countless.
         It starts from common violations of simple principles of logic, to violent opposition to all sane suggestions. These are besides state sponsored terrorism and exploitative capital economies. All dissenting rational voices are treated with brutality and any movement at variance with oppression are subjected to calculated international blackmail. The failure of the League of Nations and the impotency of its veto-riddled heirs of today, are enough a testimony to the hypocrisy in Western style of democracy and of the unresolved contradictions in Eastern form of religious ritualism and philosophical dialectics.
         The upheaval in Afghanistan is not just a quest for a change by removing an unpopular and muderous regime from authority. Nor it is a mere guerrilla warfare confined to a new place by the limited circumference of its base. This is rather a struggle by a global movement which is prepared to querry the validity of everything in the so-called modem concept of freedom and justice. The objective as it, surpasses those artillery bursts around the besieged cities of Kabul Kandahar, Nangarhar, Jalalabad and liberated city of Khost.
         This is a struggle moving under the code-name of Jihad. It is the peak of Divine message in salvaging humanity from its own self-made world of iniquity. Islam ic revolution can be described with certainty as a process, encompassing in space, perpetual in time, logical in scope.
    The Mujahideen, September /1991 universal in goals and very much fundamental in essence. These are the pearls of Afghan armed resistance when advanced towards its completion, and the credence of any Islamic organization should be confirmed through these characteristics.
         For the uprising in Afghanistan to be fully comprehended, its doctrinal and military parameters must well be understood. Similarly, the operative dynamics of its subtle methodology deserves brilliant geo-political and lucid historical evaluations. Islamic Jihad is a revolution that vibrates uniquely on a particular wave length and progresses in life on a definite time-pattern.
         The movement is eventually forced by these constant factors to operate beyond personal craving for pleasure or political squabbling for power. It even goes beyond individual freedom or communal liberty. Admittedly these last two are precious attributes for social-equlibrium in a locality, but become minor issues when weighed against supreme universal order for justice and peace.
         The freedom of a country and its untempered state of sovereignty are deserving, but for the world to be permanently at rest there is need for a more elaborate application of the natural principle of sanity. Humanity must be accorded the same footings before opportunities and litigations, so that the universe as a whole will reap back the best qualities of its parts. The Jihad in
                     Page 31
 Afghanistan wants to destroy present socio-political anomalies starting from the despot who’s ruling in Kabul. The struggle seeks to eliminate all monopolies of power and eradicate the exploitative tendencies of capital. Everybody will ultimately be free from denial, then given back the chances of developing his talents to the fullest. The revolution wants all men to have a say in the future of his globe.
          By these standards, Western democracy is currently nothing more than a paper tiger and its goals are at best a tournament of shadow-boxing. The persistent international intrigues of its propagandists have cost it the confidence of global electorates. Men are equal in as much as the West is a victim and the people should have their say when Western world is bound to win. Freedom fighters may overnight be branded terrorists, if they dare challenge the global order, and dynamic leaders are given bad names, if the majority of the oppressed populace supports their case.
          Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan {HIA} is an example which is presently facing a barrel of allegations from the West. Two years ago, the Mujahideen were hailed for their heroic engagements against the communists.
          No sooner the leadership of this party announced his intention to carry the Jihad further, in liberating the denied masses of our time, the West changed their tune and message. The principles of justice and liberty were blatantly violated. Though Germany has been allowed to unite again without firing a single bullet-shot, and Eastern Europeans are free today including the three former communist Baltic States through agreed continental arrangement. But Azerbaijan cannot go and Palestinians still have no home in a world that claims men are equal. If democracy reall y stands for the people ’ s verdict, why denying the Afghans their birth rights of liberty and self-determination? Why protecting Kabul with the most lethal weaponry in spite of global call for freedom and justice. Where then is democracy?
          Afghan struggle is the latest expression of a world-wide popular
She was also a victim of global conspiracy in Afghanistan

                                              The Mujahideen, September , 1991                            Page 32        • &::
 resentment against the present global order of oppression. It’s just a pity that a lot of crimes are glossed-over under the nose of democracy and in the court of a so-called modem civilization. The Jihad is the most reliable strength available to the masses and its prosecution must be carried onward to its ultimate consummation. Kabul will soon by Allah’s leave succumb to the
 traditions which violate natural principles of progress would by Allah’s grace be among the fust institutions to face dissolution. These are infact inherited chains of oppression and celebrated shackles of subjugation, which have greatly contributed to the sorrowful state of our socio-political plight. They are all relic of the old days which must give way to the growing
 means of perpetrating monopoly of resources solely on those, whose main job is to plunder the nation completely. There is no room here for idealistic theories nor time for utopian niceties. All that is needed is a practical revolutionary approach to basically a real socio-political problem.
           Islamic revolution has launched its programe of transforming justice, from its ambiguous state of constitutional polemics to a living and perceived form of pragmatic ideological universality. Peace has to be established through faith and sanity, as justice needed to be entrenched via freedom and equality. It is not a question of sporadic local events but a movement for an enduring global resurgence.
           Afghanistan is the new center of Islamic revival and the Mujahideen are perform ing a duty meriting applause for many centuries to come. The struggle for Kabul has unveiled the deep hypocrisy of modern champions of democracy and the debacle of the Soviets in Afghanistan has sealed the fate of self-made proletariats of freedom. Islam remains the only hope of the abandoned masses of the world and its lofty message must be protected too from these corrupt cultural currents of oppression. The coffin of the spurious Western style of liberty, is ready now for disposal, and the tomb-stone of Eastern version of openness is right here for inspection. The full import of this struggle today, may take some years more to be assimilated, since the arrogant mind, of the West is intoxicated with power and the out-dated philosophical thought of the East is alienated with errors.
           Jihad is the path and the only road out of oppression. The suppressed will of man will eventually win back its denied liberty in life. Similarly, the unattended responsibility of the self, will soon be called to face the consequences of its choice. Surely the disputed throne of Justice and the wanted crown of liberty, are permanent properties of Islam. Let’s keep our fingers crossed and wait patiently for what tomorrow has in stock for us. To Allah be praises at all times.
m
i U I
ViiJ
                                         power of the new era. army of faith and liberty and the entire         Afghan revolution rejects the
 system in Afghanistan must be Islamised existing culture of denial which of course
 to reflect vividly the fundamentals of develops from the selfish interests of freedom and justice. Old customs and tyrants. This questionable order is a
                                           The Mujahideen, September, 1991            •
 Page 33

         ISN’T THE US THREATENING WORLD
               PEACE AND STABILITY?
           Political scientists have given different interpretations to the concept of administration, security and world peace. They have pointed out that, creation of world security and maintaining global peace and stability are interchangeable. Whenever peace and security of the world is discussed, in effect it means world administration and order. And there are opinions on the fact that should this planet be governed by one or two or more systems? And each of these ideas has its pros and cons.
           In fact, the world has been geo-politically divided into states or political units, and there are reasons for these divisions. History is a witness to the fact that the causes of emergence of these political units are different. We could vividly see that various governments with separate legal and administrative systems are governing these states. In addition to this, conflicting ideologies and religious institutions in these states have interrupted the process of unity among them.
         The perpetual existence of the above facts led to the creation of the world bodies namely League of Nations and (after the world War II), United Nations Organization. Although given the time and circumstances these organizations had their differences, they had one thing in common i.e. they mostly served the purpose of the Allied powers after the World Wars I and II.
         Further more, it was the United Nations that has further strengthened the grip of these so-called advanced countries over the world politic and this has continued to this date. Each of these states, particularly United States and Soviet Union with their vast military and political capabilities are out to fully utilise the UN for their advantages.
         It was impossible for one of these two countries to dominate the world by resorting to military force, therefore, each was out to get other countries support within the organization, so as to increase its hegemony over global administration.
      This process continued for a long time, and the world practically has been divided into East and West or socialist and capitalist blocs. Third World or non-alligned countries (NAM) had to follow them blindly. To put it bluntly, the NAM had been pawns in their hands. Eventually this scenario also ended. Communism with its absurd philosophy which has been leading the socialistbloc for years is facing crushing defeats and further smothing the way for capitalism to dominate the world.
From one side the prospect of the creation for a
To achieve this end, they interferred, directly or indirectly, in the internal affairs of other nations and instaled puppet governments of their own choice.
  sovereign world body was weakened and from another angle the World Wars and international conflicts with their undesirable effects were stressing the need for further mutual understanding among nations. On the other hand, the winners of the wars have proclaimed themselves the sole masters of the world.
      It is crystal clear from the current situation that communism is devoid of leadership in the socialist bloc. And also it is the truth that communism is a dead ideology. Hence the socialist countries are trying to adopt the capitalist way of thinking. America which is at the helm of the capitalist nations is having the control of the game and will do anything to get its desired result out of this competition.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
WMmmmmm.
gjjjjj                                     gl                   Page        34                                            «
                                             To achieve the world leadership America has to remove the following obstacles from its path:
1-       Political awareness of nations especially of the Islamic movements or we might call it the Islamic Renaissance in the Muslim countries world-wide. America has to face challenges from the ideology which has but still its principles based on soc ial justice, freedom and liberation of the entire humanity from and discrimination. This is why its a primary objective of Washington to prevent any Islamic resurgence.
2-       Though the United States is confident that communism is dead and no longer a threat to the capitalist ideology, it believes that Russia with its vast territory and abundant resources still have the potential of hitting hard back.
         When the USSR enters free market and operates the capitalist economic system, the European nations are likely to end their past fuedes with Moscow, after all, Soviet Union can be counted as one of the European countries.
3-       TheindustrialissedEuropcancountricscspecially united Germany mightonce again, renew thebitter memories of World War II in order to challenge the United States inroads on the world.
4-       Any country that challenges the leadership of America, would surely threaten its interests world-wide if such a state succeeds in dominating the economic resources.
         It is clear from the above points that US is challenging the whole world, and carefully calculated the obstacles that might exist on its way. In order to remove these obstacles and further enhance its rule over the affairs of the world, the US will try to do this at the cost of others. The American-led coalition invasion oflraq in the Gulf war proved this point. At present, the American onslaught is targeted against the Muslim Ummah which forms a formidable force against its hegemonistic designs. Although the existence of despotic and pro-western puppet regimes in many Muslim countries have suppressed the advancement of the Islamic movements, it is an explicit fact that, the awakened Muslim masses will no longer let these corrupt governments to remain in power.
         America and its allies with all their strength and capabilities are deeply involved in destroying the nuclear installations of the Muslim countries. US-led-coalition attacked on Iraq during the Gulf War but such hostilities were primarily targeted against Iraq’s nuclear facilities rather than the destruction of Saddam’s regime. The same goes with Pakistan. The presence of the Israeli commandos in occupied Kashmir is a dangerous signal to Pakistan that US and the Jewish State arc ploting to destroy the nuclear installations of this Muslim country too. The economic turmoil and the lurbulant political situation in the USSR has taken away its courage to criticise the American direct military intervention in the internal affairs of other countries. The recent US invasion of Iraq on the pretext of liberation of Kuwait furnished a good example of the above case.
         In the meantime, the Russians are trying to keep the Republics within the SovictUnion by whatever means possible and to get all of them to sign the Union treaty. The people and the governments of the Republics are not happy with the centre, and many of them have unilaterally declared independence from the Soviet Union. The leadership in Moscow is aware of this fact, and has chosen a peaceful method of transition from communism to capitalism. In order to accept the capitalist economic system, the Russians have to welcome the western political system too. The west, by imposing its political system on the Soviet Union, is out to support those forces in that country who are going to further disintegrate and weaken the Empire to the point that it could lose its status as a superpower. To compensate this loss, Americans will help the Soviets to keep the Muslim Central Asian Republics under its control. It is hard to imagine that US is a threat to European security,or vice-versa, because US considers any European instability as its own. This is mainly due to their common military strategy, political, linguistic, economic and religious interests.
         It should be borne in mind that if Soviets are no longer considered a danger to the US security and if Europe emerges a stronger power, then US will inevitably face yet another challenge from its friends. To summarize the whole situation. United Stale has to change the political systems of many countries, remove the opposing ideologies and destroy many other anti-American forces to become the world leader. Is the US capable of accomplishing all these aims? The answer to this can as well be in the negative, but US is capable of creating such catastrophes as the atomic bombing of Hiroshima during Second World War. If the US is left unchcked and unchallenged in its vicious ambitionsof military, political and economic supremacies, its going to declare itself the world leader and will create a bigger and more dangerous catastrophe for the entire inhabitants of our planet.
                                                                                             Translated by S. Anwar Nasr (from the Daily Shahadat, a publication organ of HIA)
--------------------------------------------------------1
The Mujahideen, September, 1991

In Islam, Women have great roles to play....
Page 35 mmmmmi
POSITION OF WOMEN
                 TEE PREESLAMEC
       ARA1BEAN
       S0CEETY
Ummu Abdullah
r
v
 This is a series of articles written by our sister Ummu Abdullah on Women in Islam. The first part appearing here contains a general examination of the socio-political standing of Arab community and Judaist societies prior to the messengership of Muhammad (on him be peace and blessings)...

caught in matrimon ial mesh were necessarily kept in subjugation and were treated more like harlots than human-beings” 2
         The pre-Islamic society here refers to the society of the Arabs before the advent of Islam which came as a result of the Prophethood of Muhammad (PBOH). The position of women during this time then refers to the condition of women in Arab society before Islam.
         Having explained the term position of women in the pre-Islamic period, we can then examine what exactly the position of women was. Actually the position of women was so m iscrable. The people of that society though t that women were evils and unwanted burden on the society. The people thought women to be sources of disgrace and humiliation in the family and to the society as well, to the extent that they were ready to kill and burry them alive. The people hated women to the proportion of taking them as toys and they were subjected to all kinds of inhuman treatments. This view of the Arabs about women is summed up by a scholar who writes thus:-
“The birth of a daughter in a family was not the occasion for rejoicing but of general gloom and despondency” 1
         Women were never viewed as part of the Society. They could be used for sensual pleasure and then discarded away. The scholar further says:
“Women captured in war from the rival clan or otherwise
         Women had no independent status and they were neither regarded as human beings and were not treated belter than animals. Nobody in that society ever thought of women as creatures of equal rights or as creatures endowed with any right at all, rather the women’s life were punctuated with tyranny, injustice and oppression.
         The people of this dark age never thought that women had rights until the advent of Islam-when the divine laws were introduced to the people through the Holy Prophet (on him be peace and blessings). The people of that society never thought that women had right to anything than to be enslaved. The women could not even share in the property of their deceased relations including their husbands. Whenever a man died his property used to be shared among his relations and the wealth of the man was everything including his wife, that means that the woman will not only be deprived of the right to inherit but she will also be regarded as part of the property left by the husband and therefore she had to be inherited along with the property. The woman could not also object to this since there was no liberty for her to do so.
         In that society, nobody ever cared to see that as injustice to women since their wish were not respected in getting married. A man could get married to any woman
                                                                                                                           The Mujahideen, September, 1991
  POSITION OF WOMEN IN THE CHRISTIAN SOCIETY
           ......... 0
whether she gave her consent or not. The master of a female slave could sell her to any man, while the woman by her nature couldnot object to this. It was not also regarded as inhuman to force a slave girl into shameful act by her master during this dark age. There were nothing like rights to be maintained by the man who got married to the women while the women by their nature were not free to cry out or to express their minds on the treatment they were receiving by them.
         As regards the right to di vorce,a woman can be discarded away any how and anytime the man felt like doing so.
         The Arab way of divorcing women was so babaric and inhuman. Babaric in the sense that the men used to divorce their wives and forbade them from getting married again. A typical example is what happened to Khaula who was divorced by her husband through the Arab’s custom of divorcing women and Allah then revealed a chapter called Suratul Mujadala (the woman who pleads) in her favour.
         This custom was held by the Arab pagans to imply a divorce and freed the husband from any responsibility and conjugal duties. This custom did not allow the women to leave their husband’s home or to contract a second marriage. They had a popular statement for this type of divorce that enslaved the women. The statement is:
“Thou art to me as the back of my mother” 3
         With this statement a woman is prevented from entering into marriage for the rest of her life, and this type of divorce is known as Zihar.
         The women were also treated as inferior beings, to the extent that the men used to claim that they were superior to them since they did not go to war to fight. These pagan Arabs had a very strong tradition that their men alone could inherit because he could fight with spear.
         In the Christian Society, women are described as agents of Satan whose voice is comparable to the hissing of the serpents. She is taken to be the scorpion that is ever ready, to sting and the lance of the demon. Women are regarded as the instruments which the devil uses to gain possession of the souls, and the gate of the devil.
         According to St Bernard, St Anthony, St Bonaventure, St Cyprian and St John respectively, women are
daughters of falsehood and sentinel of hell. The enemy of peace and of the wild beasts - the most dangerous. At the council of Macon, a bishop vehemently asserted that women do not belong to the human species. Women are dubbed as unclean creatures. Infact, it is the unclean nature of women as claimed by the Christian churches that make the churches to denounce the holiness of marriage.
St Gregory also said:
“Blessed is the one who leads a celibate life and not the image within him wishes the filth of concupiscence” 4
         It is also for this reason that the
Page 36 rnmmimrn
 church opens the nunneries so that women may escape from the Christian theory and the practice of regard ing them as the sources of all evils. Actually this theory and practice belittle the dignity of women folk.
         Careful examination of the position of women in Christianity reveals that the whole structure of the Christian creed is based on the doctrine of original sin. There is a belief in Christianity that the first woman was responsible for this original sin. Eve was believed to have
 first committed the sin and then caused the fall of Adam (A.S) According to the above theory, this original sin actually was responsible for the sins of humanity and then God sent His only begotten son to be crucified and to wash off the sins of humanity with his blood.
         The Christians condemn woman as the originator of the sin and they always refer to the Biblical portion which says thus:-
 “The man said; the woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree and I ate”5
         These people condemned the first woman and then transfered their
According to St Bernard, St Anthony, St Bonaventure, St Cyprian and St John respectively, women are daughters of falsehood and sentinel of hell. The enemy of peace and of the wild beasts - the most dangerous. At the council of Macon, a bishop vehemently asserted that women do not belong to the human species. Women are dubbed as unclean creatures. Infact, it is the unclean nature of women as claimed by the Christian churches that make the churches to denounce the holiness of marriage.
St Gregory also said:
“Blessed is the one who leads a celibate life and not the image within him wishes the filth of concupiscence” 4
- y■■■■*“  The Mujahideen, September , 1991

  > ■■ page 37
condemnation to the generality of womanhood. If one examines verses 13,14-15, these verses never accused the woman, this is because God never cursed the first woman (Eve) in the verses. Instead it was the serpent that was cursed in the following two verses. To this effect the verses read thus:
“The Lord God said to the serpent because you have done this, cursed art thou above all cattle and above all wild animals upon your belly you shall go anddustyoushalleatall theckiysof your life. I will putenemity between you and the woman and between your seed, he shall bruise your head avid you shall bruise his heel”6
 serpent was cursed, it was also made the enemy of the woman and her offsprings. In a nutshell this portion of the Bible never portrays God as having shunned or condemned the first woman and the generality of the women.
          Moreover, history of the Roman empire records many untold miseries and awful plights of women such that hot oil was poured on their bodies. They were even tied to the tails of fast running horses so as to be tom to pieces. It was also recorded that women were tied with pillars while fire was made to approach them from the pedestrals.
          Doctor Aspiring exposes the
heinous crimes committed against women in the Middle ages. He says thus:
“England the origin of Christian religion, in the year 1500 C.E set up a special Council which devised a new means of perpetrating cruelty and oppression on women. As a rcsultof this new methods, history recorded the burning alive of about nine million women by the Christians in England”.7
         In fact, there are a lot of arguments propounded by the Christians to show that women arc damned creatures. References are made to these arguments from the Bible. Among these arc the following:
“For behold, the days are coming in which they shall say blessed arc the barren and the wombs that never bare and the paps and which never give suck”8
“It is good for a man not to touch a
wowan...”
“Art thou loosed from a wife seek not a wife”9
“He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord. But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world how he may please his wife’T 0
         All the references are drawn from the new testament which is said to he weightier than the old testament.
         St Pual the premier saint of Christiandom proclaims:-
“Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. But I suffeer not a woman to teach near to usurp authority over the man but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed then Eve and Adam was not deceived but the woman being deceived was in transgress.”! 1
         Every woman according to him are transgressors since the first woman is taken to be a transgressor. StTertullian while expressing his own view about women also declares thus:
 “Do you know that each of you is an Eve, the sentence of God on this sex of you lives in this age, the guilt must necessarily live too, you are the unsealer of that tree, you are the first deserter of the divine law, you sse she who persuaded him when the devil was not reliant enough to attack him. You destroyed so easily God’s image in man”12
         To the orthodox Greek Church, women have no souls. In furtherance of this,St Clement of Alexandria also remarks:
 “Nothing disgraceful is proper for man who is endowed with reason much less for woman to whom it brings shame to reflect of what nature she is”15
 St John Chrysostom in his own view also said as regards women.
 “A necessary evil, a desirable and a painted ill”16
 “Calamity, a deadly fascinator and a painted ilF’l 3
         However when we examine the institution of marriage in Christianity, women are taken to be of equal creatures with the men, it is there that women arc taken as equal partners of men. Women and men live together as creature who love themselves in body and mind only in the institution of marriage, besides this, women are never taken as creature worthy of love. The Christian then ascertain that men and women have been in love right from the beginning of the world thus they make reference to the Biblical reference which says that
 “When God made man He also made woman to be his friend and pariner”14
         In Christianity, marriage is not viewed as a way of preserving the dignity of a woman as a result of this she is given
        Apart from the fact that the
Every woman according to him are transgressors since the first woman is taken to be a transgressor. St Tertullian while expressing his own view about women also declares thus:
“Do you know that each of you is an Eve, the sentence of God on this sex of you lives in this age, the guilt must necessarily live too, you are the unsealer of that tree, you are the first deserter of the divine law, you are she who persuaded him when the devil was not reliant enough to attack him. You destroyed so easily God’s image in man”12
                                               The Mujahideen, September, 1991           ; . v      •      Page 38 :
 the option to marry or remai n unmarried. When she even gets married, her happiness in the marriage is not taken into consideration because she is not given the right to sue for divorce if the needs arise. If she gets married that is final, she can only marry another man if the first dies. The Christians hold tenaciously to the concept which says thus:
 “All marriages arc eternally binding therefore divorce is not permissible”!5
         In Christianity there is also a concept which says
 “Neither was the man created for the woman nor the woman for the man”16
         This concept implies that it is not necessary that a woman gets married to a man afterall none of them is created for another. No man is ever created for the purpose of marrying a woman and vice versa.
         In the some Christian society there are other contradictory views and one of them is the notion that a woman has the right to inherit from the property of her relations. Christianity gives the women the place in the family and this is a sort of blessing to the woman and way of emancipating the women. According to the unorthodox stand forwarded by some unpopular church leaders in Christianity, it is believed that it is only the American custom that does not give them therighttoinheritfrom theproperty of their father even if she is the first bom. Said Mrs B Kunambi an African Christian woman in her article titled.
 “The place of woman in the Christian Community”
 “In recent times, in the wake of Christianity brought by the missionaries, there has been an evolution in the place of woman in the family as well as society. This has brought about a feeling of emancipation for woman, the tendency towards more and more independence both on the individual and the family level”! 7
          In the light of this, it is apparent that women are given their rightful place in the question of inheritance. The women can inherit as the men can as well. In fact, the portion of the inheritance that goes to the women is unknown for this is not contained in the Bible. Since the Bible is silent on this the portion that a woman inherits, then everything depends on the dictates of the will of the deceased relation. This also depends on the love which the deceased father or the
 deceased mother had of the daughter, that is if the daughter is loved more than than the son she will inherit more than the son.
         As regards the women’s right io leadership. A woman is not supposed to lead, be it in the Church or anywhere. Women can contribute to the administration of the community but they arc not to rise to the level of being leaders. It is believed that the development of a society asks for women’s integral development. Women can contribute to the development of her society if they have acceptance in their rightful place in the society -— Mrs B Kunambi.18
         Concerning religion, women contribute to the development of the church from the time immemorial. However women were never made head of the churches. There was no female apostle in the Bible. The church only desires that the Christian women should become fully aware of the greatness of their mission. The church has no authority to institute a change in the
 order of ministry of the sort required for the ordination of women to priesthood.
          It is only in modem times that women seek access to the ministerial priesthood which are no doubt moti vated by the desire to serve God and the Church. Jesus Christ who being himself a man chose only men to be his apostles. The church must therefore be faithful to Christ and therefore cannot consider any authori ty of adm itting women to priestly
 ordination. 19
          In recent times, there are seminaries by the Catholic where women are given theological education and thereby require them to become church leaders. All Protestants (as other churches arc called) have also taken this step and at least women are tolerated in seminary if not totally requited. The larger the familiar presence in the enterprises of theological education will in turn increase the challenge to perhaps a situation where one should say that with increased pressure upon the institutional churches to open their doors to competent trained women and afford them the same opportunity afforded to men.
          Any woman who lacks these qualities of sensitivity, talent and, discipline can hardly become a leader anywhere especially in the church.
          As regards politics, the women’s involvement is seen as engaging herself in a serious task. This could be as a result of the serious activities
In Christianity, marriage is not viewed as a way of preserving the dignity of a woman as a result of this she is given the option to marry or remain unmarried. When she even gets married, her happiness in the marriage is not taken into consideration because she is not given the right to sue for divorce if the needs arise. If she gets married that is final, she can only marry another man if the first dies. The Christians hold tenaciously to the concept which says thus:
“All marriages are eternally binding therefore divorce is not permissible”15
 lhal is involved in politics. The training of children is seen weightier than taking active role in politics. The ability to control grown up children that is boys and girls is the backbone of good citizenship. The role of women as educators is very important since the way children are brought up is the way they will live and look in the society.
        In the light of this Mrs B Kunambi said:
 “For a Christian mother, the role of an educator is even more important as the mother has the best opportunity to instil into the child all the good concepts of Christianity at this early and most important stage of character formation -The children of today arc the nation of tomorrow.” 20
        The involvement of women in politics is also seen as a sort of winning contract of burden and this is summed up in die following statement.
 “The right of women to vote is crucial to her winning a place under the sun.” 21
 r-----------------.■ =-
    POSITION OF WOMEN I 1               JUDAISM
         In Judaism women arc seen as being under the curses of the Creator God due to the original sin caused upon humanity by the first woman. There is an assertion which really degrade the dignity of women, and this is the assertion which says thus:
“Off the women came the beginning of sin and through her we all die.” 22
         Women arc considered to be creatures not worthy of honour but as creatures that could be deservedly subjected to any amount of insults and reduced to the position of mere chattel in the house.
(To he continued)
   The Mujahideen, September ,1991                             Page 39
                       on_
         SOPHISTICATED JAHILIYYAH
         In taking up a delicate issue as the "position of women in Prc-Islamic
 Arabia" there arc two or three points to be explained further:-
                         .1 . '
 A- The difference between Prc-Islamic Jahiliyyah way and other non-Islamic cultures in the past and now is never a fundamental one but question of magnitude. As women were taken as objects of baser passions in Prc-Islamic days, so also arc they today in the so-called modem world of pornography, bot-adverts and arousing shows. The idea of "WOMEN LIB" is rather an activator and a confirmation than a liberation and negation.
 B- The present Anglo-Saxon civilization of today, if traced properly back, has its origin in Pre-Renaissance Christian Europe. The latter in turn is studdely rooted in the Pagan culture of the Romans.
         Christianity in trying to win more converts not only compromised the basic tenets of Aposiolic faith but abandoned many other fundaments. From this mixed bag of Greek philosophy, Roman paganism rises the Sophisticated Jahiliyyah of the West.                              ABUABDUR-RAHMAN
I NOTES AND REFERENCES ON THE FIRST PART 1 
m                                        M 
   1-     Fida Hussain Malik Wives of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) Taj Company Turkman Gate Dehli pagel3.
   2-     Ibidpage 13.
   3-     Ali Abdullah Yusuf: The Holy Quran Text Translations and
          Commentaries fifth edition. Islamic Foundation 1975 commentary              No. 5.
   4-     Nazhat Afzah and K. Ahmad: The position of Women in Islam Anis Ahmad 1969 page 20
   5-     The Holy Bible Revised Standard Edition R. S. U. Collins: Genesis Chapter 3 verse 12
   6-     Ibid chapter 3 verses 14-15.
   7-     Nazhat Afzah K. Ahmad Opcit page 8
   8-     The Bible: Luke chapter 23 verses 29
   9-     Ibid Corinthians chapter 7 versel
   10-    Ibid chapter 7 verse 27
   11-    Nazhat Afzah and  K.  Ahmad  opcit page 19
   12-    Ibid page 20
   13-    Ibid page 21
   14-    The Bible: Genesis chapter 1 verse 27
   15-    Murtada Mutahari: The Rights of Women In Islam Translation 1st edition page 316
   16 Nazhat Afzah and K. Ahmad opcit page 24
   17-    Alvard shorter African Christian Spirituality Macmillan
          Publishing Company Incorpration        New York page 151.
   18-    Ibid page 154
   19-    Paul K.Jewtt The ordination of Women William B. E. publishing
          Company New York 1980          page 84
   20-    Alvard shorter opcit page 153
   21-    Paul K. Jewett opcit page 90
   22-    N. Ahmad and K. Ahmad opcit page 16.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991

mnrnmKsm^mmsmm^age 40 Mmmsm
IbnAbayomi
        The midnight coup that led to the disgraceful removal of Soviet President, Mikhail Gorbechev and the second day unceremonious reinstatement were never big surprises, if any at all. The message here is to emphasize the revolutionary lessons that surfaced as a result of the sudden exit and re-ascension of a man whose words and actions have altered much of the global geo-political structure, at least, for almost a decade now.
        If Bolshevism did prove itself worthy, rightly or wrongly as the most deserving heir to Czarist monarchy, the latest coup plotters mainly from the Communist fundamentalists as well as the so-called liberal opposition among the pro-West politicians, have both failed to justify why the baton of authority should be handed over to them.
        Revolutions, by all definitions, start from individuals but never end up with minorities. They are burning ideas and comprehensive programmes transferred from particular convictions of a man or a group of dedicated workers and activists, to popular acceptance of a nation or race for realization. No fundamental         socio-political
reformations, no matter how logical or grandiose, can be effectively accomplished if they do not enjoy the people’s confidence and participation.
        Gorbechev like his comrades-in-arms misfired on this note in two ways. One: He proceeded on what could be termed the greatest ideological blunders of our time because he lacked clear and comprehensive picture of the
 so-called reform which he intended to execute. The repercussions too were no less catastrophic. The whole Soviet economic system was not only exposed to international ridicule, even from the developing and underdeveloped countries which should be the last to jest at others but also its failures were deliberately exaggerated out of proportions. Two: The Soviet central leadership, by design or chance, became entangled in internal squabblings with almost every republic. These were cases emanating from various separatist movements through out the empire. More irritating, above all, was the apparent inability of thepresident to first safeguard the nation as a unit entity, rather was himself a too-willing accomplice in the whole politico-economic confusion.
         From these two points alone, one can justifiably say that what Gorbechev announced to the people on what he wanted was a new Soviet kingdom and on some occasions did use the term “going back to the original Marxism” in rebuilding the Union.
Unfortunately this ambition has remained best on paper and would have been sufficentas his own contribution to Communism if left thus. Today, his perestroika is nothing more than another word for chaos and the glasnost he much preached could now be regarded as a modern political term for national disaster.
         His dilemma is of course explainable. He was one of those who fanatically believed in revolution from above instead of grass-root upheavals. He wanted to effect basic socio-political changes by merely re-drafting another party manifesto and acquiring more presidential powers through un-popular constitutional approach without getting in touch pragmatically with the masses.
         In all places and at all times, the rowdy population of the society that forms always the majority could by nature be deceived a while by slogans and symbols, but in the final analysis this section judges rhetorical dialectics on the basis of practical
 sss:s;s^                                      The Mujahideen, September, 1991                          Page 41
accomplishments.
         During any political struggle for survival or supremacy, every priority must be given to the ability in any serious revolutionary movement to convince and control the people, since political authority depends on social solidarity. Gorbechev refused to learn lessons therefore from the first unsuccessful Communist revolution of 1904, where by, the ruling monarchs were able to win back the masses after having been earlier lost to the Marxist revolutionaries. Since Mikhail practically had nothing to show his own people as direct achievements of the new philosophy for which almost every section of the society seemed to have sacrificed endlessly, the opposition of the nation therefore was more than meritorious. Similarly, the conspiracy of his own colleagues was more than consequential and the temporary applause that greeted his less than seventytwo hour exit from power especially from the Third World was more than deserving.
         It appeared then that the Soviet president was himself more interested in having absolute power and in staying in authority longer than his predecessors, than he was in forwarding the wheel of real and radical social changes. Whether he got what he wanted or not needed further examination and detailed analysis, but one thing was certain, that he proved himself at be an incapable king,overarestlesskingdom,atacrucial
time when only dynamism and strong will were of paramount importance.
         On the international scene, but for the last coup d’ etat, Mikhail Gorbechev was the final arbiter or the last voter, whose position in international politics became a barometer of what lied in wait. No one had proved this devotedly with staunch religious fanaticism as much as George Bush. The first man in the White House would not execute a major decision approved by American Congress or supported by the entire nation except he was sure Soviet leader would actively not oppose or at least give his tacit approval by looking the other way.
         What exactly gave the leader of the Communist Union this unique opportunity was the position he occupied as the president of a country that stretched from one comer of the globe to the other. It also has a population greater than the Arab states put together including the whole of Middle East and with natural resources higher than that available in Europe. According to reliable military sources, and confirmed likewise by United States officials, the Soviet Union is still the only country in the world capable today of turning America into ashes within question of minutes.
         In the same vein, Communism, prior to Gorbechev’s first ascension to power, was a leading ideological challenger of Capitalism and its camp
 could effectively match Western military might in sophistication, number and established geo-political alliance. It followed therefore that Moscow was never a mere force to reckon with but a major power or more properly front-liner in all important global discussions.
         Putting the above mentioned brief survey in mind, one could actually understand why any social upheaval in the Soviets, or political blunders by its president or even geo-military and economic miscalculations by its leadership could become a real global calamity if no break was applied.
         As we have repeatedly mentioned, the world is no more a planet inhabited by absolutely independent human communities, even if there are international diplomatic illusions to that effect. The fact is that human socioeconomic and geo-political developments have reached a crucial stage that individual sovereignties are mere paper gestures. In reality a new global nation is in the making which would eventually re-unite humanity as a single entity.
         USSR, as acountry possessing the five qualities of a super-power, which are said to be (a) wide space-area, (b) high population (c) extensive natural resources (d) huge conventional military machine (e) large sophisticated neutron capability, has both the natural responsibility and ideological obligation to maintain world peace at all costs. But Gorbechev appeared to have been a wrong man in a right place. Being also a president of a country founded on revolutionary zeal, even if socialist, could himself be well accused of ideological betrayal to his political party and treasonable felony to the good of his nation and the entire human race.
         Although there were some good points to his credit during his pre-coup tenure of office. He broke some of the old diplomatic taboos in international politics, introduced substantial rational constitutional reforms, allowed satellite states of Stalinist Communist empire to
No readers are coming: Marxist literature turning into trash
                               ________
choose whether to continue happily or leave rejoicing, and likewise refused to send in tanks and artillery in defending “friendly” but unpopular dictators the world over. The re-unification of former West and East Germany was politically speaking to his credit for ever accepting to allow the merger, withdraw his forces, and promise not to interfere in other countries, internal problems. Finally, he was the first Soviet leader to publicly criticize Russian policy in Afghanistan by terming the Red Army involvement in Hindukush a bleeding wound.
         These above cited achievements without doubt shook the very foundation on which post Second World War strategic studies and international diplomacy were built. The so-called cold-war syndrome has gone at least for now, and oppressive ideological enclaves have but for a few disappeared. The iron-curtain was broken and the steel-wall gave way to a free-world.
         What then has turned these apparently brilliant collection of personal intiatives into a disturbing array of global afflictions? To answer this pathetic question, distinctions must be drawn between good intentions and viable conceptions as well as between quick and short turn-overs and delayed and permanent accomplishments. What could be counted as Gorbechev’s achievements were immediate results of his apparently good intentions, which only few could disprove. His failures and liabilities lay eternally in fanatically leading the whole world to a situation that might eventually become the greatest socio-political catastrophe in the history of mankind.
         In any revolution, you don’t dismandc except when you havea standby alternative, and it is a crime in itself to destroy a system, even if oppressive, except when you are confident that you have the faith, men, programme, understanding and unbreakable will to build another in its stead. Gorbechev unfortunately had neither the people, nor the brain. He wavered in
                                                              The Mujahideen, September, 1991
 determination as much as he knew not his own destination. As for his belief in Communism or new Marxism as he loved to call it; he was an apostate, since his conviction was zero. And for the newly embraced religion of Western style-democracy, freedom and so-called fundamental human rights, he could well be described as a pretender and traitor.
         His leadership was clouded with recklessness, tactlessness and sheer imbecility least expected of a man of his standing. What he should have put in mind was the adage that charity begins at home and therefore needed not to
 have disturbed world geo-political stability without first having total control of events in the Soviet Union. Similarly, his international programmes should have been executed in a form that would not threaten world peace. This he could do by maintaing the East-West power balance. But his inability to successfully steer his own ship out of strong waters has destroyed all logical bases for a progressive international co-existence and shattered old hopes for a world free of oppression.
         One such example of his short sightedness or obvious betrayal was the unilateral dissolution of the Warsaw Pact as a lever to NATO, removing thereby the only available practical and effective check on Capitalist absolutism on the
                    Page 42
globe. The positions of Moscow on Afghanistan and UNO were two other examples of Gorbechev’s contribution to world instability.
         For convenience, we shall review first open Communist crimes in protecting the puppet regime in Kabul during the tenure of Mikhail. People did take him serious the day he announced his country’s preparedness to withdraw from Afghanistan. Butas events unfolded themselves, it became clear that Soviet policy on this country would only change in shape and colour, not in content and goals. It was eventually known that
 perestroika and glasnost were for Eastern Europe and not for subjugated Muslim republics.
         The first suspicion as to Moscow’s real intention was created by the way and manner the Geneva Accord was formalized. Mikhail Gorbechev entered into negotiations with America, Marxist regime in Kabul and Pakistan on Afghanistan, without the participation of the armed resistance movement which represented more than 95% of the population. This was of course not of omission but a deliberate attempt at frustrating any total military victory of the Muslim revolutionaries.
         A case like the above mentioned one presented a real picture
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
The first suspicion as to Moscow’s real intention was created by the way and manner the Geneva Accord was formalized. Mikhail Gorbechev entered into negotiations with America, Marxist regime in Kabul and Pakistan on Afghanistan, without the participation of the armed resistance movement which represented more than 95% of the population
of political hypocricy dubbed always as strategic diplomacy in international relationship. Perestrioka and glasnost meant freedom and openness. America and Europe likewise claimed themselves to be champions of liberty and self-determination, and Afghan Jihad was initiated on the basis that the nation must be given a say in all things that affect its existence as an independent entity. To have therefore bypassed all fundamental principles, side-stepped the people and entered into agreement with outsiders, revealed the salient intention behind the whole peace process.
         If the so-called new Kremlin under Mr. Gorbechev really believed that Red Army involvement in Afghanistan was a mistake and that it had become a bleeding wound, why not absolutely disengage Communist military machine once and for all. As if to confirm people’s reservations, Soviet Union proceeded to withdraw under two new diplomatic terminologies at least in Afghan crisis: (a) Negative symmetrism which was apparently meant for both sides to the conflict but tacitly intended in stripping the Mujahideen of its external support, (b) East-West understanding on Afghanistan.
         This latter one meant many things viz: (i) destroying existing Mujahideen ammunition depot (ii) reequipping Kabul puppet regime with sophisticated arsenals to the brim, so as
to withstand any Mujahideen military onslaught that was envisaged after Soviet withdrawal (iii) Assassination of strong revolutionary supporters of the Islamic struggle such as Zia-ul-Haq, Gen Akhtar,Dr. Abdullah Azzam and others, (iv) Systematic blackmailing dynamic Mujahideen leaders through advanced Western propaganda machinery (v) Directly sabotaging Mujahideen military operations through implanted agents such as in Jalalabad, Kabul and former Khost garrison. It was intended by this to butress their notion that Mujahideen could never achieve any major military victory, (vi) Sentimentally over-blowing old and petit differences between various Mujahideen parties and striving night and day to create fresh ones.
         All these were during Gorbechev’s first era and to sum it up, we might quote Engineer Hekmatyar here”...The worst ever bombing over innocent people of Afghanistan by Russian Airforce was witnessed during the rule of Mikhail Gorbechev. The most modem and devastating weapons are still being supplied to the puppet regime for continuing the massacre of the Afghan people...”
          UNO was another casualty of the Soviet president’s fatal commissions. It is important here to note that when this international body first emerged from the tomb of the League of nations, the idea of veto was introduced, though monopolized unjustly by the so-called victors of World War II to rationally checkmate each other. The organization was also meant to be a buffer in crisis, as well as a platform of sanity, liberty and objectivity. It was never intended to be a military arm of any of the conflicting ideological camps.
          For one reason or the other, the founder of perestroika and initiator of glasnost decided to alter the balance without moral justifications or rational causes, destroying thereby the fragile credibility of the UNO. We must note that Capitalism and Communism are nothing but the two only sides of a philosophical coin. None of which is totally evil or completely free from mortal flaws. The only viable alternative is the advent of Islam as originally revealed. But since Muslims are today grappling for survival amidst countless disasters, it needs an entirely new understanding to make that a reality. Muslims must reform the so-called fundamental radicalism as well as reject its twin sister of conservative dogmatism to face the challenges. But in the meanwhile and before that becomes a practical achievement, the East-West balance must be preserved by all means or an immediate check must be placed on the absolutism of Zionist capitalism in the world today.
          This is not an invitation for the return of Communism as a rutheless socio-political warrior or a wish for the
Trapped and caught: some military leaders of the Marxist puppet regime under arrest
                                          The Mujahideen September 1991                              Page 44
continuation of polarized ideological globe of fantasies nor for the celebrated cold-war era. It is a call for the old law of checks and balances which has been the most effective method of natural preservation of all existences. Absolute power from any ideological camp corrupts absolutely. The destruction of Soviet influence in the name of a so-called philosophy of re-structuring and ambiguous policy of openness, on a planet full of political conflicts and economic hazards and without any available alternative, is surely pushing the whole world to the brink of nemesis.
         Here again, Mikhail demonstrated his geo-strategic blindness. He refused to take decisive positions commensurate with his authority or that of the Communist Union during crises. He was contented to play the role of an American fiddle and nothing appeared enjoyable to him than dedicatedly fulfilling the aims and ambitions of Western powers.
         This was the peak of Communist dialectical anti-thesis. Instead of Capitalism destroying itself through excess economic productions and conflicting political objectives, as prophesied by Karl Marx himself, Communism has crumbled in the Soviet Union on thcbasisofilsrigidilyasmuch
 as lack of initiatives and foresightedness and similarly the sell-out-policies of its leadership in exchange for a few dollars.
          If Moscow had performed its role responsibly, Baghdad would never have risked the ordeal of invading
Kuwait, and the catastrophe of the Gulf crisis would have remained a dream. The failure of the Kremlin under Mr. Gorbcchev for allowing the manipulation of the UNO in achieving Capitalist design and the involvement of the Security Council as an extension of NATO, created a dangerous geo-political instability as demonstrated, between August 2, 1990 and January 15, 1991.
          The world was close to a nuclear holocaust and innocent people were exposed to highly destructive biological and chemical weapons on a massive scale. The patched-up trust and confidence in the UNO as a peacekeeping and cease-fire body was lost. Its role as global-stabilizer was eroded and the old reputable international community in Geneva became a standing committee of the American Congress in Washington.
          Similarly, by betraying the responsibility reposed in him, the Soviet president gave the United States ample opportunities to unilaterally speak about the so-called New Global Order. By so doing, Moscow became an active abetter of Zionist supreme hegemony in the world. Since Baghdad presented herself as too unwilling to serve further in the court of global imperialism, her destruction therefore was a priority. The connivance of Soviet leadership was certainly of a higher importance in neutralizing the danger posed by the huge Iraqi military machine to the existence of Israel in the region. The "liberation" of Kuwait was a bait at not provoking international condemnation and as a facade towards creating Zionist new global order.
    The coup plotters who removed Mr. Gorbcchev erred too by underestimating American influence in a post-Gulf war world. Most of them were old Communist stalwarts who served in various capacities in the preperestroika Union. This conservative
 group now referred to as Communist fundamentalists believed nothing could stand on their ways if the president of the crumbling nation could be successfully removed. The latter they did by prosecuting the ill-fated power-transfer conspiracy and maintained it for about 72 hours, but not only external bigpowers opposed them, almost everything in the former Union of Soviet socialist republics stood in their ways.
         The ringleaders of such a poorly planned plot did not only have no touch with the people but eventually lost contact with their immediate juniors who could have mitigated the effect of their common unpopularity and extend the duration and geographical radius of a brilliant temporary victory. That was why the Russian president Boris Yeltsin in Moscow, could comfortably refuse to recognize them, making the leaders of almost every republic to reject them and no administrative quarter would obey too. The coup therefore, was already doomed even before commencement.
         Another thing which also contributed to its total failure was the direct consequence of Gorbechev’s dcscentralization. Hitherto, it would have been possible to stay in Moscow and issue orders which would be symmetrically executed throughout the Communist organizational heirarchy,but gone were the days. The old brigades could not understand that perestroika and glasnost were meant among other things to forestall a similar take-over by the die-hards.
         Repercussions of these tactical misconceptions of a Union divided against itself were far reaching. It temporarily removed, if not permanently obliterated any possibility of a Soviet-return to theold ideological power-status. Similarly, it gave the West undeserving edge and primacy on global platform. It has created the rule of a unit superpower pending the advent of an iron-will challenger. Finally, oppression, injustice and exploitation would be the language of the Western victors until the Muslims come to the rescue.
The world was close to a nuclear holocaust and innocent people were exposed to highly destructive biological and chemical weapons on a massive scale. The patched-up trust and confidence in the UNO as a peace-keeping and cease-fire body was lost. Its role as global-stabilizer was eroded and the old reputable international community in Geneva became a standing committee of the American Congress in Washington.
                   . :;                        The Mujahideen, September ,1991
wmmmmmmmmmmPage 45 mmmmm
               TEE ISLAMIC FEOMT FOE
          Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromo is committed to dual goals liberation from imperialist protected regimes in Ethiopia as well as to prevent nationalist and secularist parties which have strong links with global Jewish Congress and World Christian Federation from changing the original Islamic character ofOromia as a nation.
          As an introduction to the more than decade struggle of the Muslims in Oromia, we are publishing a summary of some of the documents submitted by Shaykh Nuru-Deen Yaraw Adam, who is currently representing the Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromia here in Pakistan.
         The documents were in Arabic but rendered into English by our own man Abu Abdur Rahman and presented to our readers by Abu-Abdullah.
                           FOREWARD
          All praise be to Allah alone. He who fulfils always His promises, helps His slave and defeats the allied alone. Peace and blessing on the noble prophet to whom this various revelations were sent:-
 “O ye who believe, do I show you a trade that can protect you from a tedious chastisement: You should believe in Allah and H is messenger likewise struggle in the path of Allah with your wealth and persons. That is best for you if only you know: (As a reward): He (Allah) would forgive you your sins and permits you entrance into Al- Janah that has rivers flowing beneath and into nice dwellings in paradise of bliss. That is indeed the highest felicity (Suratus-Saff)."
 and likewise:
 “Those that if we establish them on earth would observe prayers, pay the zakat, enjoin others to what is good and forbid that which is wrong....To Allah belongs the end result of all affairs
                                                                                                                                                               suratul-l-Hajj: 41.”
 After this:-
                TEE LIEEEATIOM OF OEOMIA
 AhuAhJullah
I
GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION:-
$
           Oromia falls in the eastern part of Africa having Kenya on its southern flank, Ogarden to its east. Jibotti and Sudan are on its frontiers in the west and to the north we have Tegri and Gunder (Ethiopia).
          Oromia is made up of eleven provinces which are all forcibly incorporated in what is today called Ethiopia. This nation has apopulation of 34 million 85% of whom areMuslims, 10% Christians and 5% pagans, occupying an area of 756,000 Kir?.
           Majority of Oromians subsists on agriculture and husbandry. A few section of the population is noted for trade, commerce and handicrafts. Today the rate of literacy is one of the lowest on the continent, which is something between 8% and 10%. This is of course a direct consequence of the cultural and economic isolationist policies ruthlessly executed by various Ethiopian regimes.
fADVENT OF ISLAM IN OROMU
          Islam entered Oromia about five years before the Prophet himself migrated to Medinah. On him be peace and blessings. This was possible through the first migration of Muslims from Mecca to Habasha (i.e Ethiopia) and it would be of great interest to recall the words of the Holy prophet while commanding his companions to go to Habasha.
          If you could go to Ethiopia, go! because “there-in rules a king that does not allow any body to be treated unjustly...”
          That was how Islam came to Oromia peacefully. It started from individuals to families.From clans to cities and provinces and till today there are historical cities and Islamic heritage which remind us
                                              The Mujahideen, September, 1991                mmmmmmmmmm Page 46
of the advent of Islam such as the first mosque built by the companions of our prophet [may peace and blessings be upon them all.]
          Since then onwards Islam had been able to establish it self as the dominant religion with the people. The faith, culture, administration, and commercial ventures were heavily influenced by Islamic tenets, even the languge absorbed a lot of Arabic words and grammatical methods.
CHRISTIANIZATION OF OROMIA
         Following the fall of Muslim empire in Oromia at the hands of Ethiopian Christians aided by European powers, Adis-Abbaba tried much to reward its foreign helpers by opening up all avenues for European evangelism.
          In the First half of Gregorian Fifteenth century, Oromians were able under the leadership of Imam Ahmad Ibrahim Oromia to establish a completely new socio-political Muslim Institution referred to in history as an Islamic sovereign state, which covered very large geographical space in East Africa and extended likew ise to the eastern part of Ethiopia to a place called Kaslah in Sudan.
          That was how Oromia continued to retain its Muslim identity until the last years of 19th century when its Islamic character was destroyed by Christian allied forces.
?------------------ ^
                          EUROPEAN COLONIALIZATION
                            AND THE FALL OF OROMIA
IS-------------------------4
          State laws were enacted forcing Muslims to forcibly accept Christianity or pay heavy levies in default. Ethiopian missionaries from Europe were encouraged to change Mosques and other religious places into Churches and new Christian religious centers were built on Muslim lands.
          Those few Muslims who refused to abandon their faith were given a three-year option of either permanent servitude under Christian lords or exile.
          The effects of these persecutions were catastrophic on the people, thelslamic faith and the overal Muslim cultural institutions in East Africa. Many did manage to uphold their faith, defend their honors and bluntly refused to compromise but the greater part of the community even after its unwilling acceptance of the new Christian faith under the threat of untold persecutions was still subjected to the worst type of atrocities. They were denied honorable living as well as necessary facilities and majority of the population was deliberately left without any education or professional training that could serve as basis for another Islamic revival.
           Later came Britain and France and from 1884 A.D, Oromians started fighting a tough batde in trying to stop evangelization of what they believe to be an Islamic community by 1891, with the active participation of major European Christian powers which sent trails of machine propelled weapons and advanced ammunitions to Ethiopian Christians. Later Oromo Finally succumbed to Christians colonialization.
           Portugal was one of the first European countries to invade Oromia. The main purpose was Christianization of this Muslim community with a strange hostility towards anything Islamic. In order to achieve their goals, Lisbon entered into strategic alliance with a section of the local population called the Amhari tribes in northern part of Ethiopia who were adherents of unorthodox faith of the Eastern Churches. The aim was to use the hither-to unhostile eastern Christians to destroy Oromia. But fortunately such a reckless undertaking failed since the Amharies and their foreign instigators were both defeated by a less equipped and poorly trained Muslim army.
          Immediately after Berlin conference of (1884-1885) Oromia as a Muslim community was Finally isolated from the main stream of the Islamic world. This without doubt was calculated as a crucial means of weakening the natural and dynamic Islamic resistance capability of Oromians. Not until when some neighboring Muslim states such as Somali became independent that the armed resistance was resuscitated with a renewed vigour. By 1973, a real militant Islamic struggle has been bom again which now lives till today to challenge Christian imperialists and their local secularists.
Muslim fighters taking the final instructions before battle
           As a direct response to this new Islamic resurgence, Ethiopian government increased its repressive policies. Children, women and the aged were killed with impunity. Villages were destroyed completely. Men were burnt alive before family members and anyone suspected of collaborating with Muslim fighters became object of all sorts of punishments. Fortunately instead of forcing the populace against Islamic fighters, the contrary was fulfilled by fueling therage of the people against European missionaries and their Ethiopian puppets.
                             THE BIRTH OF ISLAMIC FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF OROMIA

          Though armed struggle against the combined European and Ethiopian imperialism by the Oromians was indeed old. But with every new day, new experiences and understandings were acquired until a new militant movement emerged.The founder of this modem Islamic Liberation Front was Shaykh Abdul-Karim bin Haj Ibrahim Hamid Taqib. This Front is intended to be a movement that would facilitate the intellectual, political and military liberation of Oromia.
          Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromia has indeed started its military engagements with existing oppressive armies of imperialism since 12/12/1969.
          It's political message is based on these three major
 principles
 a- Glorification of the Word of Allah and Exaltation of His will on earth.
 b- Liberation of Oromia from the shackles of Ethiopian colonialism.
 c- Establishment of an Islamic government which will govern using the Holy Qur’an and the prophetic Sunnah.
:• I ■
I
WHO RULES THE HORN
           Emperor Haile Selassie never believed he was not the Lion of Judea until his military guards over threw him in one of the bloodiest coups on the continent. He was brutally killed and the numerous chains of ministers, advisers, top government officials he enjoyed and their families were cornered and butchered mercilessly.
           There endeed the reign on an emperor but the empire remained. Colonel Haile Mariam Mengistu who took over felt too ashamed to declare his own strong links to Zionism or assumed naked imperialistic titles as did his predecessor but ruled the country with the same tempo of ruthless dictator and helped the Zionist state of Israel to his utmost.
           When his superiors in Washington felt he could no longer fit into a conceived New W arid Order, former president Jimmy Carter, was chosen as the ambassador at large and entrusted with the responsibility of executing a long drafted plan of distabilizing and dominating the Horn of Africa.
           What jimmy did was to enter Sudan under a fake name, met rebel forces fighting Ethiopian army in khartom. The outcome was successful but the secret was divulged by a participant who felt he had been fooled to attend.
           Before Sudanese authority could round up these conspirators. Carter was already on the air giving his briefing. The gist was to remove Mengistu, allow the reminants of Jewish tribes in Ethiopia to migrate out to Israel and create a strong Western alliance to prevent advancing Islamic radicalism in the region.
           To this effect, Ethiopia appeared partitioned between Ogardens, Tegris, Oromia and Eritreans, Neighbouring Somalia is thrown into a real civil war best called bloody tribal pandemonium and Sudan, Uganda and the rest are not free from strong seperatist organizations financed from the West, we ask, who rules the Horn of
 Africa-                                   Yasin   Murtadah
 (If
                    Please send your subscriptions to The Mujahideen at the Bank Account No. given below.
                                     Habib Bank Limited Cantt. Branch, A/c No. 4852-76 Pwshawar, Pakistan
%
%
I
Attention readers
               If you wield a facile pen; please write to The Mujahideen on various issues concerning Muslim Ummah in particular and the whole humanity in general. The article should, however be well typed. The editor of the magazine is looking for a positive respons from its
                                                 worthy readers.
                                                    Subscription rates Pakistan: Rs. 100 per anum All other countries: US $ 25 per anum
                                                  Correspondence Address: The Mujahideen P.O. Box 710 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan
                                                                                     The Mujahideen
 Chief Editor:  S. Alamuddin Atheer
 Acting Editor:   Israrullah Khan
 Composed & Designed by: A. Latif Stanikzai
 if
    Lf%V'f '% \
*'
««