
 <;
 /
 <
 /*
 <
 i
 #
 /
 /
 <
 #
 /
                                       _§*>
c^iim >
#^i*T.
 L*
 ♦*
 <*
 ♦v
 *

  ^r
  ♦*>
  >
 /
 /
 <5*
 &
 €
 $
 /
 #
 *♦
 *;
 *
 ip
 {$)
 (|fi
 rS
 \jp
#
/
*
  f$
  ~+
                                                /\ ; “We want to establish an independent, non-aligned and stable Islamic
/. government in Afghanistan,
l K'% \'% ; % :>. ** j
3 •»* i *jf ; -   j
\                                 "The futiire government of free Afghanistan mamtian relations
        with atTStates except those acting against the , independence and *‘ • torial integrity of our homeland.
        "We will make independent judgements on all international issues, supporting the rights and condemning the wrong.
        "Our internal and external policies will be based on the Quran and Sunnah.
        "   The rights of all Afghan nationals would be duly protected by the Islamic
        State of Afghanistan.
        "The Islamic State will take all possible measures for the promotion of science and technology and for the reconstruction and development of Afghanistan in order to make it a self-reliant and self-sufficient State. ”
                                                                                                 Eng. Gulbudin Hekmatyar Amir of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan
&

$

*
 J
 $
 '/
*:mmi f

*
*
i.  \>.s*/e


The Mujahsdeen Monthly
The
MUJAHIDEEN
                                                          Monthly
1st Vol.                         1st Year                       January 1986 19, 4, '    1406 
Editor-in-Chief:      Abdul Qadeer Karvab       CONTENTS                                 Eage 
Editor :         Sur Gul Speen             1 '• Letter To the Readers                       4 
Founder :        Hezb-i-lslami              \ 2 Editorial                                   5 
                 of Afyhatiistan            2 3 Declaration of General                        
Address :        The Mujahideen Monthly i       Amnestry : Hekmatyar                        8 
                 G.P.O. BOX 255                                                               
                 Peshawar, Pakistan         2 4 Letter To the United Nations                9 
Subscription :   Afghanistan ;               5. Hekmatyar’s Statement Distributed At U.N. 10  
               1                                                                              
Monthly :        Afs. 50.00 |              S 6- Victory Or Martyrdom                       16 
Annual:          Afs. 500.00                1 7 Hekmatyar’s Visit to Malaysia              23 
                 STUDENTS: i                                                                  
Monthly :        Afs 20.00 i                ( 8 Sayed Hamidullah Bilal                        
Annual:          Afs. 200.00 I                  * Headache For Russians                    24 
                 PAKISTAN : !              i 9- Sealing Off the Borders                    27 
Monthly :        Rs. 5.00 j                                                                   
Annual:          Rs. 50.00 i                10. Russians Butchered Wounded Mujahideen      29 
                 STUDENTS: j               1 1. Governor Killed                            30 
Monthly :        Rs. 4.00 ‘ ij                  '                                             
Annual:          Rs. 40.00 jj             i 12- Russian Army Base In                       31 
                 FOREIGN: - j|                  Kunduz Heavily Damaged                        
                                            13. Russian General Killed in Wardak      31 »    
Monthly :        US$1.00 ;•                 14.                                           .33 
Six Months :                         , i'       .23 Refugees Killed                           
                 US$6.50 J j|                                                                 
Annual:          US$11.00 S                 15. v Jaji Chawpi Attacked                     34 
/                                                                                             
---5---; • ~. ... ---                           ' T ' V-V- •                                  
The Mujahideen Monthly                                                                3       
 I
X                                 :      s
 Dear Readers :
 The Editorial Board of The Mujahideen Monthly appreciates your comments, views, suggestions and criticism about the magazine and considers them as significant contribution to the further improvement of our work both in term of appearance and that of the text.
 Thank you.
      The Mujahideen Montnly G.P.O. Box Peshawar,Pakistan
4
The Mujahideen Monthly
 EDITORIAL
           Russians Are Nothing But
    Six years have elapsed since the Russian invasion bf Afghanistan but despite Moscow's wealth and might our nation remains unconquered — every day Russian troops are confronted and beaten by the Mujahideen. In reprisal the Russians massacre civilians, destroy villages, kill livestock and burn forests, fields and crops.
    So far more than one million people have been killed through indiscriminate bombing and shelling and an equal number have been crippled due to the use of anti-personnel mines. Thousands of people have lost their lives or been maimed because of booby traps despite the fact that Moscow signed an international convention on April 10, 1981 prohibiting the use of such weapons.
    Nearly five million people have been forced to leave their homeland and take refuge in the neighbouring countries of Pakistan and Iran because their homes have bqen destroyed. The country's economic and social infrastructure, including the roads, power and communication networks, hospitals and educational institutions, have been badly damaged or completely ruined.
    There is no justification for Moscow's military intervention in the internal affairs of our independent and non-aligned country and there is no meaningful interpretation of international law to justify Moscow's actions in Afghanistan.
    The only exception to the ban on the use of fqrce in international relations is provided for in Article 51 of the United Nations' Charter which affirms "the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a member of the United Nations."
    However, Moscow has never claimed that [it has been the victim of an armed attack — on the contrary it is the guilty-party not the wronged. The only explanation for its behaviour in Afghanistan appears to be a lust for power, a desire to expand its power-base
 and dominate other nations.
                        <r .
    It appears to .feel safe in this evil design because the Afghans are only a small nation, totalling probably no more than 18 million people before the war
 began
    Secure in the belief that it has the numbers Moscow appears to have forgotten Allah's (All Glory be to Him) words so clearly stated in the Holy Quran:
      When Ta/ut set forth With the armies, he said :
      "God will test you At the stream : if any Drinks of its water,
      He goes not with my army :
      Only those who taste not Of it go with me :
      A mere slip out o f the hand Is excused." But they all Drank of it, except a few.
      When they crossed the river, —
      He and the faitfhu! ones with him, —
      They said : "This day
      We cannot cope
      With Go Hath and his forces"
      But those who were convinced That they must meet God,
      Said : "How oft, by God's will,
      Hath a small force Vanquished a big one God is with those Who steadfastly persevere.
                                                                                                                                     (Baqara, 249)
    Perhaps the Russian leaders might like to reflect upon the closing words of the verse :
      But those who were convinced That they must meet God,
      Said : "How oft, by God's will.
      Hath a small force Vanquished a big one ?
      God is with those . Who steadfastly persevere.
    In reflecting upon God's words perhaps the Russian leaders would do well to remember* that Allah (AII Glory be to Him) has warned mankind not to commit aggression :
    "Fight in the way of Allah against those who fight
*The Mujahideen Monthly
    against you, but begin not hostilities. Lo! Allah loveth not aggressors."              (Baqara, 190)
    Amusing as it may be to people who do not believe in God, particularly those in the Kremlin, there are some, like us, who do believe — and who have not forgotten that Allah (All Glory be to Him) does not support the corrupt and the unjust.
    We remember His words "God is with those who steadfastly persevere" and every day we see the Truth in them as time and time again, by the Grace of Allah (AH Glory be to Him) we are able to defeat a force that is not only numerically stronger than us but also formidably armed — far better armed, far better equipped, than we can ever hope to be.
    Despite its blatant aggression — in complete defiance of those Quranic precepts that not only do we respect but which may people over the earth hold dear, whether they are, Muslims or not — Moscow has been making ridiculous allegations about the situation in Afghanistan.
    Those claims have been made to try to hide the real nature of the Kremlin's aggressive policy. Moscow has constantly claimed since the beginning of the invasion that Afghanistan poses a threat to the Soviets. But this stands in contrast to the claim it made for decades that Moscow's relations with Kabul were a model of peaceful coexistence, a prime example of neighbourly relations between a small country and a big country, each - with different systems of government and social structures but living peacefully together.
    The truth is that there was no threat from our nation but the Russians were fearful that the communists who were in power at the time, the traitors who sold out the motherland and slaughtered their own people, would be removed and an Islamic government introduced.
    Moscow and its puppet in Kabul also claim that the Russians were invited in by the government of the time to protect them against outside intervention. So far neither the Soviets nor thpir puppet regime have been able to produce any evidence to prove that such an invitation was ever made.
    If such an invitation was made why was Amin, the then head of the government, slaughtered by the Russian invaders ? Babrak was in no way authorised nor able to invite the Russians for he was not inside Afghanistan when his predecessor Amin was toppled. He v/as brought into the country by the Russians and imposed on our people.
    How can one rejy on offers of Russian friendship
                                                 and who would tro^t in Moscow's soft and gentle / ■ <* . tones when‘ in reality the Soviets are nothing but
 expansionists who intend to enslave nations.      ,
    The Russian government has been interfering
  if
 directly and indirectly in our internal affairs since the 19th century but over the years the incompetent governments that held power not only remained silent but contributed towards the implementation of Moscow's colonial designs as well.
   International Guarantees
    Moscow pretends to seek international guarantees for non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan but the only guarantee necessary is one from the Kremlin which has blatently committed aggression against our nation and is killing our innocent people mercilessly.
    Moreover, who are the Russians to seek guarantees of non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan ? Our country has never been part of the socialist bloc nor has it been attacked by any foreign power other than the Soviets. If the Russians withdraw from Afghanistan they should ensure that they never again make the mistake of invading Afghanistan.
    If Moscow is serious and honest in its claim to seek guarantees it holds the key to the solution for Afghanistan and / would suggest it accepts the following for a swift end to the conflict:
 —  the immediate withdrawal of all its troops from Afghanistan ;
 —  the restoration, of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and Islamic status of Afghanistan ;
    the restoration of the right of the Afghan people to self-determination, free from outside intervention, coercion or restraint;
 —  and the voluntary return of the Afghan refugess to their homeland.
    Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan is firmly committed to achieving these objectives and, 'Inshaa-'Allah, will not rest until every Russian soldier is* either dead or expelled from the land.
    But the One to best express our emotions is surely Allah (All Glory be to Him) Himself Who in two beautiful verses says in the Quran :
      Their intention is ' To extinguish God's Light
      (By blowing) with their mouths :
      But God will complete (The revel anon of) His Light,
      Even though the Unbelievers May detestm(it).
      It is He Who has sent His Apostle with Guidance And the Religion of Truth,
      That he may proclaim it
6
The Mujahideen Monthly
      Over all religion.
      Even though the Pagans May detest (it).                  (Saff, 8 - 9)
   Political Negotiation
   The political negotiations taking place now, or due to take place, involving parties that are not directly involved in the conflict will have no bearing on the final solution.
   Moscow, though expressing its wil/igness to• withdraw from Afghanistan, is not an honest negotiator as can be seen from its demands for guarantees of non-interference. Further proof of this is that there is no evidence to prove that the Russian troops will leave Afghanistan in the near future.
   On the contrary, Moscow appears to be trying to dig in by establishing new airforce bases, increasing the number of its troops and launching wild military offensives.
   One of the Kremlin's ploys is to persistently attribute the conflict to the Government of Pakistan and Iran to try to compel them to negotiate with the puppet regime in Kabul imposed on our people by force. Alhamdulillah, both Governments have failed to fall for this trap and have been loyal to their brothers in Islam and refused to negotiate directly with Kabul.
   Despite Moscow's attempts to embroil other regional governments in the conflict the reality is there are only tbvo adversaries in Afghanistan today — the Russian troops and the Afghan Mujahideen.
   The Russians, with low morale and no real objective are fighiting reluctantly, while the Mujahideen with high morale are continuing their just struggle for the sake of Islam.
   It is obvious that any negotiations which do not include representatives of one of the main parties to the dispute are meaningless -* as such any resolution passed by parties that do not include the Mujahideen will not be acceptable to Hezb-i-lslami.
  Invasion A Catastrophe
   The Russian invasion is not only a catastrophe for the people of Afghanistan but also for the whole region and has endangered the peace and stability of not just South Asia but also the world.
   The presence of more than 230,000 Soviet troops on A fghanistan soil is of the deepest concern to Pakistan, Iran and China■/ The soviet installed regime in Kabul and the KGBf *arej together running subversive activities ih Pakistan and are trying to provoke its tribal people against the Afghan refugees and the » Government of Pakistan. / '
The Mujahideen Monthly
    Moscow's invasion of Afghanistan has intensified India's hostility to Pakistan and Delhi has not only avoided condemning the invasion but also supported the Soviets in an effort to undermine Islamabad's security.
    This will obviously have a bad effect upon future relations between the present Government of India and the A fghan people.
    Since the early days of the Bolsheviks take over the communists have been spreading their profane creed and since the Second World War their attempts to enforce that creed upon others has intensified as nation after nation has fallen victim to their aggression.
    It is obvious that the invasion of Afghanistan is a disaster not just for us but others as well — after Afghanistan who will be Moscow's next victim?
    As Muslims we believe that Allah (AH Glory be to Him) orders us to fight for Him when we are called upon to do so Jihad has been declared in Afghanistan and now we are in the position so well known to those who believe — the position David (May Allah's peace be upon him) found himself in when Allah (AH Glory be to Him) brought him face to face with Go Hath.
    But surely Allah (AH Glory be to Him) tells the story best of all - • 1st let me pick up the quotation from Surah 2, Baqara, of the Holy Quran that was begun earlier :
      God is with those Who steadfastly persevere.
      When they advanced
      To meet Goliath and his forces,
      They prayed : "Opr Lord !
      Pour oui constancy on us And make our steps firm :
      Help us against those . • That reject faith."
      By God's will.
      They routed them ;
      And David slew Goliath ;
      And God gave him Power and wisdom And taught him Whatever (else) He willed.
      And did not God Check one set of people By means of another.
      The earth would indeed
      Be full of mischief:                      ‘
      But God is full of bounty
      To all the worlds. (Baqara, part 249, 250-1)
1
     DECLARATION OF GENERAL AMNESTY:
                     llekmalvar
    Engineer Hikmatyar has declared general amnesty for those Afghans who collaborated with the Soviet aggressors, but have subsequently repented and are now willing to join the ranks of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. The amnesty applies to all those Afghans who served in the lower echelons of the enemy, collaborated for short durations, unknowingly or under compulsion. The declaration made on December 1985 addresses itself the people inside Afghanistan.
    Explaining further. Engineer Hikmatyar stated that those who consciously collaborated with the enemy would also be accorded the benefit of general amnesty provided they are willing to repent, compensate for- their past follies, gain confidence of the Islamic nation of Afghanistan including the Mujahideen and are prepared to fight alongside the Mujahideen against the Soviet aggressors. Necessary directions will be given to ail Mujahideen commanders of the fighting- fronts in this regard so that all the misled Afghans upon their repentance are provided the required protection.
    The declaration of amnesty will be placed before the coming , session of the Supreme Council of the Unity; the fttehad e Islami Mujahideen-e-Afghanistan, for its endorsement. Besides, the forth-
 coming session of the Unity will consider the formation of the following Committees : Communication ; Cultura; Education Refugees ; and Health.
    Engineer Hikmatyar also observ ed that of late the Soviet rationale for the justification of their aggression on our homeland has undergone a change. Contrary to their earlier pretext of the so-called 'invitation", they now seek to justify their unlawful military presence by claiming that an unending civil war will erupt should they leave Afghanistan and that they cannot tolerate such conditions. along their borders. This preverse logic tends to portray the Russian aggressors as the guarantors of peace and security of our country and who sent their troops merely out of sympathy for our nation in order to stop the said civil war. '■
    The fact of the matter is that Sovief intervention is .solely responsible for the eruption of the war in Afghanistan. And needless to add the fighting wiil cease and peace and tranquility will prevail all over Afghanistan the moment Russians vacate our country.
    Indeed, it is in keeping with the shared logic of afl colonial powers to undertake the pursuit of brute force aggression and occupationism and perpetrate bloodshed and destruction while professing "compassion" for thejvictims of their own oppression. The Englishmen during
 their occupation .of Afghanistan also advanced the same perverse logic. They contended that upon their withdrawal the country would be engulfed in a series of civil wars and they claimed to be in Afghanistan solely on a "civilizing mission to undertake development and assist the Afghan people. History, however, bears witness that after the British were forced out of the country, Afghanistan remained peaceful and our nation was able to establish a viable central government without t’he help of any foreign advisors or protectors.
    The Russians have also expressed the fears that if their forces withdraw from Afghanistan, the Afghan communists will be decimated, Are we to accept that the safety and well-being of the handful of their agents requites the pre sence of 230,000 Soviet troops in Afghanistan ? Are we to grant that in protecting this small group of their proteges, not exceeding ten thousand, the Russians have the right to slaughter more than one million of our population in this 90 months unremitting war, unleash total destruction on the country force 4.5 million of the Afghan population to seek refuge outside and still continue its gruesome killings and genocide of the remaining population ? In any case, the fact is that even before the Soviet aggression these communists were living comfortably in Afghanistan. They were not only safe
    Continued on Page 28
8
The Mujahideen Monthly
               LETTER TO THE UNITED NATIONS
      THE ISLAMIC UNITY OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
               October 24, 1985                                 Peshawar Pakistan
               The Honourable
               Javier Perez de Cuellar
               Secretary General
               The United Nations, Organization
               New York City
               Your Excellency:
               As you well know, as a consequence of the illegal Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, 1.1 million of our people have been martyred and 4.5 million of our countrymen have been forced to take refuge in neighbouring countries after their homes and villages were destroyed by Soviet bombing and artillery shellings.
               This brutal aggression is continuing with full intensity. Scores of Afghan civilians are still being killed everyday and the exodus of refugees has increased enormously.
               Although an absolute majority of United Nations member countries has repeatedly condemned the Soviet invasion of our country, and U.N. resolutions have described the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan as a major threat to peace and tranquility in the region, the Soviet Union has not heeded the will of the majority of United Nations members. Further, the Soviet Union during this period has increased its forces in Afghanistan and intensified its acts of barbarism against civilians in its vain efforts to crush our nation's struggle for freedom.
               He are sure you can understand why it appears to us to be the height of hypocrisy for the United Nations Organization to repeatedly condemn Soviet intervention in Afghanistan while at the same time recognizing'the representative Of the regime installed by the Soviet Union as the legitimate representative of the Afghan people. It is surely clear to the overwhelming majority of U.N. members that this delegate does not represent Afghanistan, but only a "puppet" regime of the Soviet Union.
               We therefore request that, through your good offices, the United Nations Organization withdraw the credentials of the illegitimate representative of Afghanistan and that the vacated seat be awarded’to the true representatives of the Afghan people, the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (Itehadi Islami Mujahideen-i-Afghanistan).
                       j             :
               Most respectfully yours.
           / Gulbudin Hekmatyar, Engineer
               Chairman,'Afghan Mujahideen Delegation to the United Nations
    , / -The Mujahideen Monthly
9
     Hekmatyar’s Statement As Mujahideen’s Spokesman Distributed At UN
 -r-------------------------------------------------——  V.
           October 1985 Statement By Gulbudin Hekmatyar Spokesman For : Itehadi Islami Mujahideen~I~Afghanistan (The Islami Unity of Afghan Mujahideen) The Afghan Mujahideen Delegation To The United Nations
 s________________________________________________________
    In the name of Allah, the Beneficient, the Merciful
    Have they not traveled in the land to set the nature of the consequence for those who disbelived, before them? They were mightier than these in power ana (in the) traces (which th^y left behind them) in the earth. Yet Allah seized them for their sins, and they had no protector from Allah.
    Mr. President and distingu shed delegates:
    Allow me to voice the anguish of an oppressed nation which is in flames because of an inhuman and devastating war imposed on it for seven years. The Afghan nation is undergoing untold misery and unparalleled savagery throughout its homeland, following blatant Soviet . aggression on this weak and small neighboring state which has refused to succumb to her subjugation. We have incurred more than 1.1 million lives as martyrs, another 4.5 million people have become refugees and our valleys and plains are echoing with the horrid roars of tanks, artillery and bomb blasts and the screams of dying . women and; children at the hands-of murderous Soviet
 forces, as this august body is engaged in deliberating international peace and tranquility.
    In spite of extreme distress and unimaginable handicaps, our nation is waging heroic resistance, with patience and fortitude, against a far more superior power. We have shattered the myth of the invincibility of the Red Army. We are determined to continue this struggle until we achieve total independence. And under no circums-stances shall we bow before the dastardly enemy.
    By mvading Afghanistan, the Soviet/Marxist monster has actually exposed its dreadful and despicable teeth concealed behind the smokescreen of defending the workers, peasants a*d deprived, who ironically became the first target of Soviet brutalities. The huts and homes of our downtrodden people have been razed to the ground by Soviet tanks, heavy artillery and ceaseless bombardment. Indiscriminate destruction has .been unleashed all over Afghanistan. Our children and infants have been sadistically bayoneted to death before stunned parents. Our women and aged are oeing gunned down for the participation of their sons in resistance. Our crops,
 --------------7----------------------
 orchards, foodstocks and forests in Liberated Areas are set ablaze through . aerial assaults and our water supplies poisoned. Our refugee caravans, comprised of people whose homes have been destroyed and whose belongings stolen and who could no longer survive under the towering Hindukush- mountains and steep valleys, are repeatedly wiped out by merciless bombing and helicopter ggnship strafing. Thus after seven years of war the refugee exodus is not only continuing but has actually increased. Moreover, Soviet terrorism has not even spared refugees in Pakistan. Refugees are frequently killed in cross-border bombings and Soviet agents have been poisoning the water supplies of the refugees.
    In their bid to crush the resistance of our brave people, the Russian aggressors have refrained from no crimes and used all kinds of lethal and universally prohibited weapons- such as naplam bombs, dumdum bulets, poisonous gases, chemical weapons, booby traps and cluster bombs on a large scale Both youngsters and elderly people are forcibly taken away for military conscription. Small children are being systematically abducted and sent to nurseries all over the Soviet
10
The Mujahideen Monthly
 Union for brainwashing and indoctrination purposes. In short, the Soviet conduct in Afghanistan makes a mockery of the UN Charter, the Declaration of Human Rights, international law and the norms of civilized behavior.
    The world outside may not be fully comprehending the barbarity and utter ruthlessness of Soviet aggressor, unleashed on our helpless civilian population. Let me therefore cite just a few of the countless atrocities being committed by the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
    Soviet troops picked up dozens of innocent civilians from an Uruzgan village in Central Afghanistan following an ambush-'near-by. Relatives of the captured/viilagers approached the Soviet-installed authorities in Kabul but to no avail, since the captives who had been
 flown away in Soviet helicopters remained untraceable. Eventually, some shepherds accidentally located their bodies in a deserted valley, halfly eaten by. wild animals and carnivours birds. All of them had been thrown down alive from a high altitude as their bodies contained no signs of bullets, etc. Indeed, in i the logig, of Soviet communism, perpetration of such crimes are not only justified but deemed legitimate.
    Villages all over Afghnistarf have witnessed mass killings, followed by the bulldozing of bodies dead..as well as alive. One such carnage took place at Kerala in Kunar province, where Soviet troops gunned down 1100 civilians and then buried the bodies in one spot with bulldozers. Surviving members of the massacred ' families now live in a refugee camp in NWFP
 (Pakistan) renamed Kerala in memory of the holocaust. Another similar massacre involving serveral hundred Afghans took place at Qarghee in Laghman a few months back. The heavy shelling and bombing of our villages has reduced flourishing communities into unplanned graveyards, with none left to perform their funerals or retrieve the wounded from the rubble. These are some of the countless cases that expose the monstrosities of Soviet outrage in Afghanistan.
    Tens of thousands of our families are suffering the agony of missing relatives, imprisoned and then never heard of presumably executed or tortured to death. As the leader of the Mujahideen delegation representing the people of Afghanistan before this world body I am also one of those who cannot locate the graves of their missing fathers, brothers and other relatives all taken to prison cells and then perhaps to Soviet slaughter houses.
    The Soviet installed Karmal regime and its agents in Afghanistan claim that the "limited contingents" of Soviet forces were invited by the government of the time. They maintain it was initially Hafiz-ullah Amin and later Babrak Karmal who invited Soviet forces to Afghanistan. Recently Babrak Karmal stated that his party (PDPA) had invited the Russian forces. But the. whole world knows that the PDPA assumed power through a military coup and the entire nation has risen against its rapacious rule. The Afghan army units have joined the Mujahideen (Isla mic resistance) one after the other. The Mujahideen were on the verge of toppling the military dictatorship in a popular revolution. A » few days before the fall of Amin, the so-called PDPA in one of jts plenums had announced that Babrak and his colleagues from the Parcham faction had been sent to Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, USA
                                                                                                                                          i<
  k
The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
11
 and Iran as ambassadors where they had embezzled funds from their respective embassies. They were declared fugitives and traitors to the party and the whole nation and were even stripped of their Afghan nationality. The decisions of the plenum were duly published and broadcast by Kabul and Moscow radios and other countries mass media. Unashamedly, the Soviets have imposed all those proclaimed "fugitives" and 'traitors" on the so-called PDPA and the whole nation by the dint of force.
    Nobody knows who "invited" the Soviet aggressors to Afghanistan! If the Kremlin claims that Amin invited the Russian forces, then how could he have extended an "invitation ' for his own physical liquidation ? Because of his disagreement with inviting' or allow ing Russian military advances into Afghanistan, he faced the wrath of the Red Army upon its occupation of Kabul. The Russians immediately began the bombing and shelling of s\ Amins palace. And after a few hours of resistance by his loyal cadres Amin got killed in his own palace.
    Cohversely, they argue that Babrak Karmal had invited the Russian forces, then he was flown to Kabul one week after the invasion in December 1979. His first speech was simultaneously broadcast from Radio Moscow and Tashkent when Radio Kabul was still eulogising Hafizullah Amin, in the precise words which the Russians had used to praise Amin; calling him the hero of so-called the 'Saur Revolution'.
    Moreover, we are amazed how the Russians consider a limited contingent 85,000 troops equipped with 800 tanks and XP,CS and 300 warplanes and helicopters/ now increased to more than 230,000 troops, /4000 tanks and APC's .and 700 aircraft and* helicopters.
  It could have been called a limited contingent had Russians been at war with another superpower. But how can such a large force constituting massive air-cum-ground power deployed most ferociously against a poor, backward and weak state like Afghanistan be called a "limited contingent"? Whatever they call it, limited or unlimited, the people of Afghanistan by the Grace of Almighty Allah have belied all calculations and estimates of the nefarious Soviet aggressors.
     The fallacy of the Soviet claim that their forces had come to fend-off foreign interference in Afghanistan is so clear that it needs no explanatin. The only intervention and interference in Afghanistan is that of the Soviet Union and its surrogate countries. On the innumerable! battle fronts, either Russian troops or the Afghans get killed, Had there been any intervention from Pakistan and Iran then the refugees should have swarmed northward towards the Soviet Union. But in fact all the refugees are moving from the northern side to the south, east and west.
     If the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is labelled as "defence" of Afghanistan against imaginary foreign intervetnion then we surely denounce this..brutal defense. What kind of "defense* is it where more than 1.1 million Afghans have been decimated by our so-called "defender', the country ravaged by seven years of war and none from * outside other than Russian troops and those of their surrogates getting killed ?
     Indeed, our country is a victim i-of the policies of so-called friendship with the Soviet Union and of the treacherous and short-sighted policies of the previous Afghan governments.
    These governments opened the doors for Soviet penetration. The Afghan army was equipped and trained by the Soviets and they relied upon exploitative Soviet assistance in most economic projects. And now we all are a witness to the painful consequences of the policies of so-called good neighborly relations and non-interference the previous unpatriotic and incompetent regimes readily boasted. We are now suffering the outcome of those suicidal policies in seven years of devastating war. Those naive rulers also paid the price of their misdeeds. Zahir Shah was deposed in a bloodless coup. Dauod was killed with Russian machina tion, Tarakai was suffocated by the Russians, Amin and his family were blown apart by the Russian artillery barrage ; Babrak Karmal is also destined for the same fate. These figureheads were changed often like old spare parts, discarded when no longer of any use to the Russians.
    Friendship with the Soviet Union is the worst type of friendship in the world. In fact, those who refuse to befriend the Soviets remain protected against their evil designs. The tragedy of Afghanistan should be a lesson to all developing and third world countries. In order to avoid repetition of the fate of Afghanistan they should decrease their reliance on the Soviet Union and all other colonial powers.
    The perpetuation of the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan is not only a threat to this region but also affects the security of world at large. This is neither the first nor the last attempt by a superpower to trample the independence of a small state The invasion of Afghanistan is only the first step towards the fulfilment of the long-term Russian expansionist designs to reach the shores ot the Indian Ocean.
12
The Mujahideen Monthly
Mohammad Sadiq Agha, 1 4, lost his both legs
             '
 Soviet goals seek to encircle China, control the Gulf oilfields and even threaten India. We are there fore surprised at the indifference of the international community towards the Soviet menance casting shadows on world peace. Do the peace-loving nations not realize that the Soviet empire has stretched to the extreme end of the Far East and established bases for aggression and further expansion in Afghanistan fairly close to the Indian Ocean ?
    We are particularly distressed to note that some governments are taking sides with the Soviet Union in this criminal war contrary to the expressed wishes of their respective peoples. Their attempts to try to justify and condohe the Soviet' invasion of Afghanistan, are most regrettable.
                                                                                                                               Irrespective of the- Soviet intentions in invading Afghanistan and
 the international reaction and response to it, we hereby affirm our resolve not to lay down our arms until we achieve liberation .of our homeland and the expulsion of all foreign forces from Afghanistan. Let us remind the Soviet aggressors and their faceless agents that the only solution to the Afghanistan issue lies ip total, unconditional and'immediate withdrawal of the invading forces from Afghanistan. We have full faith in the righteousness of our cause and arc determined to continue this just struggle until the complete realization of our objectives. We are confident that our country will once again stand as a proud, free and independent state in the community of nations. (Inshallah God Willing).
   The Soviets must know that permanent bccupation of Afghanistan would be impossible for
  them and is a futile effort. Such Soviet dreams are clearly misplaced and would confront them with further frustration. No doubt our people are poor and far inferior in firepower. But they are equipped
  with an invincible faith in God Almighty and belief in the here after. The ensuing moral strength of our people has enabled them to courageously withstand the might of the Soviet power and not to surrender to Soviet bondage. Our people suffer untold grief and hardships without despair. They prefer honourable death over Soviet subjugation. The seven years of this traumatic war are an eloquent testimony to the glorious, historic and unremitting resistance offered by our great people to the ugly forces of aggression.
     The Soviets grossly underestimated the will and faith of our nation. They mistakenly thought that the Red Army would be able to occupy and subdue Afghanistan in a few days - like Czechoslovakia. The Soviets have not succeeded in establishing control over even 10 percent of the Afghan soil after 70 months of this costly war. They have not been able to secure large cities, major military cantonments and main highways from attacks by the Mujahideen. Their huge military convoys, though heavily armed, cannot move without strong air cover because of the fear of Mujahideen. Their terruous control of even 10 percent of our sacred territory has cost the Russian invaders 50 000 lives and the loss of 7,500 tanks and APCs and 480 aircraft and helicopters. The landscape of Afghanistan is littered with the wreckage of Soviet planes, * helicopters, tanks, APCs and military vehicles. Afghanistan today is the biggest scrapyard of military hardware in the world.
                                                                                                                       It is high time that those sitting in the Kremlin ponder the ultimate
       . ( The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
13
 fate of Nazi Germany in the light of their own reckless policies in Afghanistan - • which, like those of their predecessors engaged in similar expansionism, destruction and .genocide, are doomed to fail. At the same time, international consciousness must be raised to the Soviet challenge threatening the fabric of our civilization. Every moment of Soviet presence is a holocaust of this era to which no human soul can remain indifferent.
   While appreciating the efforts of all friendly and peace-loving countries and organizations and of all those including the honorable UN Secretary General and his colleagues, who want a solution to the Afghanistan problem, we wish to bring the following points to your kind attention :
 1. The root cause of the whole crisis of Afghanistan is the direct and indirect Soviet interference in our internal affairs and their armed aggression in the occupation of Afghanistan and the forcible imposition of their will on our naton. The only solution to the problem, we reiterate, is the complete, unconditional
 and immediate withdrawal of Soviet forces and respect for the independence,            freedom,
    territorial integrity and Islamic character of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen of. Afghanistan are one of the two real parties to the present conflict, the other being the Soviet invaders. Being the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan, the Mujahideen will not accept any solution short of the total expulsion of Soviet forces from Afghanistan and restoration of our complete freedom. Until the realization of these goals we will never lay down our arms. Our nation has nothing to talk about with the Soviet Union other than the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan.
2.  With the real parties to the Afghanistan crisis being the Mujahideen and the Soviet aggressors, the Mujahideen are engaged in the defense and liberation of every inch of their country and have lost tens of hundreds of lives to that end.
3.  Neither the puppet government of Babrak Karmal nor the
    governments of Pakistan and Iran are real parties to the conflict. Babrak is no more than a Soviet puppet. Whereas Pakistan and Iran are affected by the conflict, they are not actual parties involved in the conflict.
 4.  A political solution to the Afghanistan crisis depends on the contention of the actual parties to the conflict. Disregarding their views would further complicate the whole issue.
 5.  While recognizing that it is the right of any state to discuss its own issues and problems in whatever way it wishes and appreciating all efforts towards the reduction of tension and danger of war wherever it be, we would like to declare that nobody except the official representatives of the Mujahideen can represent our nation in any international forum. We would never accept representation of any one else in our place and vould never allow Afghanistan to become another Vietnam, freed of one superpower only to become the slave of another.
 6.  We earnestly hope that all of our friends and the free world would assist our valient nation led by the Mujahideen, to speak for its cause and its people in the international community.
 7.  We started on our struggle, the Jihad for a free, independent and Islamic Afghanistan. We believe that Islam is the real source of our strength and the sole guarantor of our progress and national well-being and can meet all of our moral and material needs.
8.  The only motto' of the Muja- ' hideen and the Afghan nation whom they represent, is the establishment of an Islamic Order in both the spheres of the individual and society.
 i
14
 i
   The Mujahideen Monthly
A house in Mazar-i-Shaiif
 9. Any solution of the Afghanistan crisis based on accomodation and compromise and without genuine involvement of the Mujahideen is unacceptable to our nation and will never solve the problem.
 10. Although the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan has been vehemently condemned in ail UN resolutions by an absolute majority, the Afghan seat in the United Nations is still being occupied by the representative of the puppet Soviet-installed regime, a product of the Soviet intervention. This continued occupation of the Afghanistan seat by an agent of the aggressor is absolutely unjustifiable.
 11 .We therefore demand that the representative of the puppet Karmal regime be removed from the UN immediately and the seat be occupied by the Ittehad-e-lslami-e-Mujahideen-e-Afgha-nistan, the united expression off all the Mujahideen of Afghani-tan which commands the support of the entire Afghan nation.
 12.We further request that in the interest of strengthening brotherly relations for ouf nation and for the safeguarding' of our legitimate national rights, all the .Supporters of ’ the Afghan cause should recognize Muja-
The Mujahideen Monthly
   hideen control • and establish our representation at the various Afghan embassies and consulates, while expelling representatives of the puppet Karmal regime.
 13. The members of the OIC, the Organization of Islamic Conference, are once again requested that the vacant seat of Afghanistan be given to the representative of the Mujahideen Unity, the Ittehad-e-lslami-e-Mujahideen-e-Afghanistan, the sole representative of the all the Mujahideen and the Afghan nation.
 14. We hereby invite the United Nations to send an official delegation to Liberated Afghanistan and so , recognize the destruction caused and crimes
   committed by the Soviet forces in Afghanistan. We also offer to the proposed UN delegation a guarantee of their security and comfort during the said factfinding mission inside liberated Afghanistan.
15.Lastly, we wish to express otir profound gratitude to the people and-government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, who over the past seven years have hosted over 3 million Afqhan refugees and extended all possible hospitality to our oppressed people. We likewise thank the people and government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for accepting 1.5 million Afghan refugees there. We would also like to express our gratitude to other friendly countries, humanitarian organizations and the UNHCR for their generous and continued assistance in meeting the needs of the Afghan refugees. We appeal to all the friends of free and independent Afgha nistan to further help the Afghan refugees, the largest number of refugees anywhere in the world, in the areas of shelter, foodstuffs, education, and health and thereby render their moral and humanitarian obligation towards the oppressed nation of Afghanistan.
   Victorious be the Afghan Mujahideen!!
                                                                                                                       Down with Colonialism!!
15
VICTORY
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
I*::::::::::!::::::::::::::
OR
MARTYRDOM
    This is the story of the bravery and proficiencies of Commander Sarwar Khan, 29 whose stronghold is called Paidarow Front\ located eight kilometres to the north of Ghazni, the capital of Ghazni province, south west of Kabul.
    Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen are a continual headache for the Russian troops and communist militias in the area. The Commander has particularly proved to Ire a source of trouble to the enemy's headquarters in Khawaja Umari district, about five kilometres to the east of - his base and eight kilometres north of Ghazni city.
    Khawaja Umari district is one of the few districts which has remained under government control over the past eight years. This is because the government forts in the area are exceptionally strong. Many of them have be6n built underground and are difficult/ to attack and it has proved hard for the Mujahideen to incur • heavy casualties on the enemy.
     The location of Force 14, a full division comprising tanks, artillery and infantry at Ghazni, has only added to the difficulties because the district headquarters can easily call for reinforcements at any time.
     Here are the stories of two of Sarwar Khan's more daring raids on the neaaquarters.
     One day last July Sarwar Khan was reviewing past operations on Khawaja Umari district and decided that the.results had not been good enough. It was time for another raid;' and, Jnshaa-Allah (Allah willing) a successful one.
     Sarwar Khan told one of his s,ub-commanders that they would have to- wipe out the district headquarters at any cost and he and his aide discussed the plan of the operation thoroughly, taking into account the lessons learned from previous attacks.
     He knew that the district head-
     1*
  quarters had a tank, mortars, different types of light and heavy machine-guns, RPGl7 (rocket propelled grenades) and 100 staff
 and soldiers.
   As well as the men and arms at the headquarters there were about 300 communist militiamen living at nearby villages who had been strongly armed by the Russians.
   These militiamen were Afghans, and dressed in the traditional manner, they could often be mistaken for Mujahideen. They were frequently employed by the Russian troops as spies and would attack the Mujahideen from behind while the latter were attacking the district headquarters.
   At the time Sarwar Khan was considering a fresh attack he was told that the Russians planned to send 75 of the 100 soldiers normally at the headquarters to Ghazni for an operation with Force 14.
   Sarwar Khan decided that this was an ideal time for an attack but he and' his aide agreed that , the use of any of their previous tactics could result in failure so they struck upon a new plan.
   He ordered about TOO of his Mujahideen to prepare for a raid but did not reveal to them the
k
 I
 I
16
The Mujahideen Monthly
Ghazm
Shaheed M. Naim
Pakt-ka's winter and Mujahideei^condition
Destroyed Ml—24
Taking booty from Khawaja Umari-district, Ghazni
hosp<'al
Hekrr>aWa’
Ghazm
\C.on<iui
 target or details of the plan.
    When Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen were within 200 yards of the Khawaja Umari district headquarters, he divided his men into four groups. He sent one group of 25 to the highway, another 25 to watch out for militias, a third to prepare Dasha kas (anti-aircraft, machineguns) in case of air attack and the last group remained with him. The latter were armed with 10 RPG-7s and 15 Kalashinkovs.
    The other three groups were told that they would have to attack any government patrols, convoys and aircraft coming near their positions but were still not told of Sarwar Khan's plan to attack the district headquarters.
    Sarwar Khan and his group then boarded a truck which they had captured from the Russians and he ordered the driver to travel at high speed towards the headquarters. The driver started the truck and it was only then Sarwar Khan revealed to his men the target of their attack the district headquarters.
    The truck took less than 5 minutes to reach the base and wnen it was within TO yards of the main gate the Mujahideen leapt from the vehicle and opened fire on the guards. The Mujahideen were so near to the tank guarding the gate that the crew could not shoot them.
    Two Mujahids, one with an RPG 7 and another with a Kala-shinkov, climbed on the tank while a third fired an RPG-7 grenade at the top of the building where a radio operator was sitting and cut communications with Ghazni.
    The remaining Mujahideen stormed the building and saw six soldiers drinking tea and listening to music in the courtyard while the Ulaswal (district administrator) was in his room. The Munshi (Politlcal-in-chargeL was on the roof
with two soldiers and a Dashaka machinegun.
   The Mujahideen surrounded all the men sitting in the yard in the first few seconds but the Ulaswal and the Munshi resisted for about 30 minutes.
   Finally the Ulaswal was shot dead in his room and the roof where the Munshi was firing the Dashaka was destroyed by a grenade from an RPG 7. The Munshi and. his bodyguards were brought out from the debris and arrested
   Four soldiers who were on guard at the rear of the building were shot dead after 10 minutes resistance and two others who were washing their clothes by a stream surrendered.
   Within about 30 minutes the Mujahideen had won control of the headquarters and everything was quiet. Even the communist militias in the nearby villages did not realise what had happened and some believed that the shooting was just practice firing or some members of the staff having a bit of fun.
   In capturing the headquarters the Mujahideen seized two mortars with 1500 shells, 2000 hand
 grenades, six heavy machine guns, two garinov machine-guns, 35 Kalashinkovs, 40 carbines, 300,000 Afghanis (US$ 2500), one R 106 wireless set, five pistols and a lot of ammunition.
    They also collected five bags of documents which w^re very use’ful. It took them several hours to load 10 trucks with the arms, ammunition and documents - and deliver them to their headquarters.
    During the operation the Ulaswal and seven other soldiers were killed and 15 others, including the Munshi and the district army commander were taken as prisoners. Most of the staff were either full members of the Communist party, the PDPA, or candidates for membership.
    One Mujahid, sub-commander Mohammed Naim, was martyred
 and four were wounded.
    Since it was difficult for the
 Mujahideen to drive the tank they set it ablaze and when the nearby villagers saw the smoke they realised that there was something wrong.
     During the night the communist militias informed the governor of Ghazni about the incident and
The Mujahideen Monthly
21
Loading booty captured in Khawa,a Umari
 early in the morning about 80 tanks, 12 helicopter gunships and four jets launched an offensive on the Paidarow stronghold of Sarwar Khan and the villages around it. Mahy cattle were killed and more than 50 houses destroyed but no one was killed or wounded.
    Meanwhile, the government installed another district headquarters in a building near the original centre and by evening the Russian forces had returned to Ghazni.
    Sarwar Khan made his second attack this year in October when a large Russian force was passing through .the district to make an offensive on Paktika province to the south.
    The force, which included a large number of tanks, was stationed around Ghazni city and Khawaja Umary district while waiting for supplies and reinforcements from Wardak province.
    Surveilling the force Sarwar Khan decided to use the situation to his advantage and attack the district. headquarters. “He knew that the presence of such a large force would cause the Russian troops and com-' munist militias to rplax ^heir guard, possibly enabling him to make a successful raid on the. headquarters.
    H?-told some of his Mujahideen to take up a position near the
district headquarters and to remain there overnight. He said he would mount an operation against the base the following day.
   Next morning he drove one of his brand new Russian trucks towards the district headquarters, assuming that people would think it was Russians on their way there for some type of business.
   When he arrived at the main gates he sent one of his Mujahideen to the guards and told him to ask for a doctor.
   The Mujahid obeyed his com-
 mander and asked the guard for a doctor. The guard asked, 'what for? who are you and where are you from?”
    The Mujahid told him that he was one of Sarwar Khan's Mujahideen and they had a wounded man in the truck. At this the guard started yelling wildly to the Ulas-wal and district commander that Sarwar Khan was outside the building.
    All the administrative staff inside, about 16, rushed out with their arms eager to arrest Sarwar Khan. When all the staff had come outside the Commander orders the Mujahideen, including those who had taken up a position near the base overnight, to open fire. After a few seconds all 16 were dead.
    Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen took their arms and ammunition as booty and started to drive back to their headquarters. While passing a Russian post, they were attacked and Sarwar Khan ordered his Muja hideen to jump out of the truck but told the dciver to keep going.
    The Mujahideen kept the Russians busy for about an hour while the driver reached their headquarters safely. Several Russians were killed and he and his Mujahideen later returned to their base without further trouble.
 i
22
The Mujahideen Monthly
Hekmatyai on his arnval at Subang Airport received by H.E. Anwai Ibrahim the Mimstei of Agi icultuie and UMNO Leader and Sheikh Fazel the Deputy Foreign Mmistei
Hekmatyar’s Visit To Malaysia
             j
      The Government of Malaysia by being the first to give diplomatic recognition to the Afghan Mujahideen has ba I zed the trial for world wide recognition of the resistance.
    The Government invited the Amir of Hezb-i-lslami, Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar, to Kuala Lumpur for the inauguration of the Mujahideen office which will have full diplomatic status. The Amir founded the ideological and armed struggle against social imperialism not only in Afghanistan but in the region.
    Upon arrival at the Subang international airport at Kuala Lumpur Eng. Hekmatyar and his five member delegation were received by the Minister of Agriculture of Malaysia and leader of the
 UMNO Youth, His Excellency
  *
 Anwar Ibrahim, the Deputy Foreing Minister, His Excellenfcy Shaikh Qader Shaikh FazH, the esteemed Ambassadors of Pakistan and
 Saudi Arabia in Malaysia and a large number of youths and supporters of the Jihad in Afghanistan.
    At the airport the Amir add ressed a packed press' conference and afterwards, accompanied by an official escort, was ^Iriven to his residence where he held a meeting with Brother Anwar Ibrahim.
    Speaking at the opening of the office <on Sept. 10 the Amir said it was commendable that the Malaysian1 Government had taken such a realistic and courageous step by allowing the Mujahideen to establish the office.
   :He said that the Mujahideen hoped that other countries, particularly Muslim Rations, would # follow Malaysia and realise that
 only the Afghan Mujahideen were entitled to represent their nation in the international community.
     'It is unjustifiable for all conscientious and sagacious people that those who are actually rejected by the Afghan people and those who have been installed and kept in power by 230,000 aggressive foreign troops, armed with the latest models of lethal weapons, be accepted as the representative of the Afghan nation, "Eng. Hekmatyar said.
    The Amir said : "If the expansionist Kremlin rulers attain their imperialistic and hegemonistic ends in Afghanistan with impunity and ambivalence of the world commu-' nity, then we should expect similar catastrophies and holocausts in other parts of the globe as well.
                                                                                                                           "On the contrary, if the God-loving people and those who believe
The Mujahideen Monthly
                i
23
 in liberty and freedom stand honestly and selflessly by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, who are defending each span of their soil by the blood of tens and hundres of their martyrs and resolutely support the Mujahideen, thenceforth with the intensification of internal resistance and enhancement of external pressure, the Russians would be forced to pull their savage forces out of Afghanistan.
    "This would not only make the Russians desist from the repetition of their crimes elsewhere, but would also encourage the oppressed and enslaved nations of the world who are struggling for their independence from the neo-colonial powers not to think that they are alone and would further strengthen their belief in the definite defeat of the aggressors," he said.
    "As far as the Mujahid people of Afghanistan are concerned they would never surrender and would never lay down their arms until the complete liberation of their motherland.
    "The Russians seeing the vanity of the results of their aggressiion have now realised that the permanent occupation of this martyr-
\ 24
Hekmatyar with H.E. Di Muhathn Mohammad, the Prime Minister ot Malaysia.
   dom-loving nation is impossible for them. And therefore there would be no way out of the guagmire in Afghanistan for them other than their complete and unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan.
      'We believe in the definite success of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan and are sure that the Almighty Allah will Himself take the revenge of the blood of our martyrs that have been spilled at the filthy hands of the Russian forces.
      "Long live the solidarity of • the Muslim Ummah. Victorious be the Jihad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and. long live the friendship of the two nations of Malaysia and Afghanistan."
      As part of the opening ceremony Eng. Hekmatyar hoisted the flag of the Mujahideen. The ceremony vyas attended by the Foreign Minister, Rittauddin Ahmad, the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Ibrahim, and the Deputy Foreign Minister, Shaikh Qader Shaikh Fazil. A large number of Arnba-, ssadors and diplomats from Muslim *' countries and other friendly nations, supporters and journalists were also present.
      During his five day stay in
 t
Malaysia the Amir paid courtesy calls on the Prime Minister of Malaysia, His Excellency Dr. Muha-thir Mohammad, and the Deputy Prime Minister, His Excellency
Sayed Hi
        Commander Sayed Hami-jj dullah who led the successful j: raid on Dashti Abdan Base jj recently visited Peshawar and Si/r jj Gul Speen took the oppor-jj tunity to talk to him about conditions in Kunduz province.
ii When Commander Sayed Hami-ii dullah visited me at the office of ii Hezb-i-lslami he was accompanied ii by his elder brother, Qari Aslam, ii and two other Mujahideen.
        Shaking hands, his elder brother ii expressed his pleasure at seeing me ••  because we have been friends
I:  since we first met in the days of
     the former President of Afghanistan, ii the late Mohammad Daud, who ii was overthrown in a coup by his ii marxist aides.
ii Sayed Hamidullah was watching ii me intently a little nervous I ii suspected about being interviewed.
The Mujahideen Monthly

 f
Hekmatyar with H.E. Musa Hitum the Deputy Prime Minister
Musa Hitam. He held wide-ranging talks with them for the further strengthening of relations between the two nations of Malaysia and Afghanistan and thanked them for
their realistic attitude towards the Mujahideen.
   The Amir also addressed public rallies in Kuala Lumpur, Johor and Kelanton provinces and met
student and youth leaders from the International Islamic University and the National University in Kuala Lumpur. He held comprehensive talks with them about the situation in Afghanistan.
   During his visit students demonstrated in front of the Russian Embassy and handed over a strongly worded protest note to the Second Secretary condemning the social imperialism of Russia and its brutal occupation of Afghansitan.
   An effigy of the Russian leader Goibachev and the Russian flag were        burnt       on        a
thoioughfare in Kuala Lumpur by the students.
   Eng. Hekmatyar also visited the Islamic Center and the Islamic Bank of Kuala Lumpur and during talks with the staff of these two institutions welcomed the establishment of these Islamic bodies m Malaysia.
nidullah Headche For
:::::
Russians
 At 29 he has a well established reputation as a Mujahideen commander, and is in fact the general commander of all the Mujahideen in Kunduz city.
   After graduating from high school he took up religious studies but when the Communist Regime took over in Kabul he could not complete them and soon joined the ranks of the Mujahideen.
   When I asked him about the situation in Kunduz province he said : "Alhamdullilah (thanks to God) it is good ' He explained that compared to the Russians the Mujahideen were very poorly armed but the Russians had failed to wipe them out and had actually suffered heavy losses themselvgs.
   Sayed Hamidullah' s^id that daily the Russians' long range          villages. He said that the aircraft
 arms and aircraft shelled and bom-     used in Kuqduz province for the'
 bed Mujahideen strongholds and genocide of innocent people and
 destruction of their property always took off from the Soviet Union. He said that the jets could not land at Kunduz airport because firstly the runways were too short and secondly, the Mujahideen attacked the airport. The loss of even one such sophisticated jet would be costly to the Russians.
    The Commander said that the Russians' land-forces were using tanks, BM 13, BM 21 and BM-41 rocket firers, Uboos 122mm and 151mm cannons, different range mortars, ZK-I and Dashaka machine guns, Z 23 double-barrel machine-guns, RPG-7 (rocket propelled grenades) and anti-personnel mines.
    The Russians are also scattering toy' bombs on a large scale throughout the area. Often the bombs are intended for children and are in the shape of a tiny aeroplane or similar toy. They
k
The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
25
 are left lying on the ground so that children will pick them up the lethal 'toys can kill or senously maim a child.
   Similar bombs in the shape of pens, watches, in fact in many different guises, are also being spread around.
   According to Sayed Hamidullah the Russians have five stiong bases in Kunduz. The biggest is Dashti Abdan which normally has a strength of more than 2000 tanks and army trucks. However, since the latest attack by the Mujahideen, its operational capacity has been reduced The second largest is at Kunduz airport with 500 tanks and army trucks and 50 helicopters; third is Qala Kuhna with 50 tanks, plus Bm-13 and Bm-21 rocket firers ; fourth , Qahwa Khana, with 250 tanks and army trucks and finally Pul-i-Alchin with 50 tanks.
   There are also more than 100 tanks, APCS and military trucks parked in different parts of Kunduz city.
 He said that despite all the government's military strength it exercised full control over its bases and Kunduz city only during the daytime at night the Russian forces were subject to attack.
   The rural area :s under the control of the Mujahideen. The government is not letting people take more than 20 metres of cloth and three kilogrammes of tea and sugar outside Kunduz city. The Mujahideen usually get these things by capturing government convoys.
   Supplies of raw cotton for the country's biggest cotton factory, Spin Zar Ltd, are under the control of the Mujahideen. ^1 f the Mujahideen want to stop production at the factory they simply ask farmers not to grow cotton. For example, from 1982 jjntil 1984 the factory was almost cJo'sed,
   The factory is partly owned by the government and partly by local tovyns people and farmers.
 It is now paying two million Afghanis (USS1666) a year out of the government s share to the Mujahideen and for this reason, and because local Afghans also have shares in the company, the Mujahideen are allowing it to continue operating.
   Sayed Hamidullah said that the Mujahideen were carrying out hit and run raids throughout the province and had attacked nearly all Russian convoys travelling in the area. During 1985 he launched four
 biq offensives on government and Russian positions and as well as the normal shelling and bombing by Russian aircraft his Mujahideen were attacked tvuice by Russian troops.
    On April 7 about 600 Mujahideen from Hezb-i-lslami attacked Hezrat Imam Sahib district headquarters and wiped out the headquarters and II army posts. As a result the Mujahideen won control of Imam Sahib city and captured arms and ammunition. In this operation one Mujahid was martyred and eight were wounded. In retaliation the government bombed villages and killed 12 civilians and wounded more than 50.
 i
    On July 25 he attacked seven army posts around Kunduz city and wiped out three of them. During this operation the Mujahideen destroyed a wi.ne store containing more than 5000 bottles of wine and burned 18 million roubles. Twenty senior communists and Khad agents were killed.
    On August 24 Mujahideen attacked Kunduz airport, which is located seven kilometres to the south of Kunduz city Mujahideen from the neighbouring province of Takhar under the command of Eng. Bashir also took part. They fired 82 rockets and according to a report that was later confirmed destroyed 80 tanks, 30 helicopters, one 118-wireless set and 18 residential blocks. About 200 Russians were killed.
    The Russians closed the airport for three days after the attack in an attempt to cover up the number of casualties and the extent of the damage.
    Sayed Hamidullah said that during 1985 about 90 Mujahideen and more than 1000 civilians including women, children and the aged were killed by Russian troops. He added that although 95 percent of the province was controlled by Mujahideen farm production had fallen by more than 40 per cent due to Russian air attacks on canals and the use of different types of anti-plant agents either to burn farms or dry out the soil.
    He said that this winter and next year the Russians would increase their operations threefold compared with the past nine months. The Russians have suffered a lot in Kunduz province during 1985 particularly during the attack on Dashti Abdan military base where they lost about 3000 soldiers.
    When I asked him "will you still resist when the Russians
 intensify their operations” he answered ; "Yes, Inshaa-Allah (Allah willing) we will defeat them again and aaain."
26
The Mujahideen Monthly
SEALING
     Unable to defend even Kabul from the Mujahideen's attacks the Russians are now reviewing their tactics as against the Mujahideen's overall strategy of dragging the war to the capital cities.
     In line with the tactics of the Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan Mujahideen under the command of Eng. Jalaluddin, who has many fighters under his control in Kabul, have attacked major Targets in the heart of the city, including the so-called Peoples' House, Ministry of Defence. Russian Embassy and the International airport.
     These operations are a success primarily because they are launched by proficient Mujahideen who work well according to planned strategy. Secondly the attacks are conducted by youths who with full zest and zeal operate in areas which they know well.
     Finding Kabul under constant Mujahideen fire the Russians, who have been seriously embarrassed by the attacks, have tried to drag the fighting to the southern borders of Afghanistan, pretending to be sealing off the borders with Pakistan ; a claim they first voiced in the days of their flagrant and ill-fated invasion in Dec. 1979.
     The Russians have tried their hardest, employing vast resources, to try to move the focus of the fighting to the border areas but have failed.
     The pattern of sending theii troops to the borders after attacks on Kabcil and calling Tt attempts to seal off the borde/s has been strictly adhered to by the Russian strategists.*
                                                                                        . The recent fighting in'the border
k
 The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
                                                                                                                    Mujahideen aiming garinov at Russian's Mig (Ghazni)
i '
 areas of Jaji and Khost divisons which flared up on August 27 and is continuing verifies this analysis.
    The Russians sent 35,000 troops to the ,Jaji district to try to divert the attention of the Mujahideen from the Kabul area and claimed they were there to block the Mujahideen's routes, j, Notwithstanding the number of troops and the time they chose for it, Eid, a time most of the Mujahideen prefer to be with their families, Mujahideen from several
organizations in the Paktia province pooled their resources and under the sagacious command of Eng. Hikmatyar, the Amir of Hezb-i-lslami, went to war against the incomparable odds. After 10 days of resistance they defeated the enemy that had come as close at three kilometres to the border and repulsed them eight kilometres, ultimately forcing, the 35,000 Red Army troops plus hundreds of their commandos to withdraw, from the area.
 (
27
    In the course of these 10 days of resistance seven helicopters and one jet were shot down, 79 tanks and APCs were destroyed or damaged and hundreds of the enemy forces were wiped out. An unprecedented number of Mujahideen were also either martyred or wounded.
    The Mujahideen under the command of Eng. Hikmatyar numbered thousands of veteran fighters from several provinces and organizations. A unique composition of fighters pursued the fleeing Russian forces into Chawhni, a previously beleagured garrison encircled by thousands of antipersonnel mines planted by the Russians.
    While withdrawing, the Russian forces were divided into several contingents, some stationed in Chawhni, some sent back to Logar via Gardiz, and some with rein forcements sent on a similar onslaught to Khost division.
    The back-tracking forces were waylaid at several points in Gardiz by the Mujahicjeen of Shaheed Rahii i Fronts who also inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
    However, those Russians sent to Khost with reinforcements were busy in a savage campaign against the Mujahideen and the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami and those of Mulavi Haqanni are putting up a fierce resists- ce.
    In the course of this fighting the Russians have suffered heavy losses and a large number of Mujahideen have been martyred, including two Commanders, Mulavi Ahmad Gul and Mulavi Fatehullah (God bless them) . These brave men were assets to the whole Jihad of Afghanistan and their presence in the area was a boost to morale for the
 Mujahicjeen of all parties. May their
    ♦ ** souls rest in peace.     *
    The recent series of attacks; in ' the southern province of Afghanistan is therefore nothing more than a futile attempt to disperse with .
 A soldier aftei the district was occup.ed
  the embarrassment emanating from the Mujahideen attacks on the capital city of Kabul.
                                                                                                        As far as the Mujahideen are concerned they will be maintain-
 ing their previous tactics of hitting the enemy where it hurts and the dream of closing the border will remain a far cry and whimsical dream for the Russians.
DECLARATION
    Continued from Paqe r
  and sound tut enjoyetf all the rights and privileges. It is also a fact that the ones who perished did so by killing each other through frationalism and personal feuds.
    Furthermore, the Russians are supposedly -worried that in case of their withdrawal the emergent Afghan regime will align itself with the other superpower which is the real cause of Soviet concern. Here, again, we are on record having consistently( expressed and demonstrated our total opposition aligned status of our country.
 to the idea of aligning ourselves with any power. Afghanistan's bitter experience of leaning towards the Russi-ans in an adequate lesson not to repeat the same mistake-viza-viz another power. We shall have a non-aligned policy. We reiterate, once again, that free Afghanistan will not be used as a military base of any power and will not pose danger to any state. We shall maintain normal friendly relations with all the countries which have no colonial designs in the region and which do not interfere in the independence and non-
 i
28
The Mujahideen Monthly
:::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::::::::::::::::
NEWS

:::
 :::::::::
   Russians
   Butchered
   Wounded
   Mujahideen
                            GHAZNI PROVINCE
 Russian troops have butchered four wounded Mujahideen and 'three of their relatives in an attack on a Mujahideen hospital in Ghazni Province.
 The murders occurred when enemy forces attacked the Mujahideen's headquarters in Zardaloo town of Qarabagh district, located about 56 kilometres south-west of Ghazni c‘ty.
 The troops surrounded the Mujahideen's hospital on Oct. 20 and found four wounded Mujahideen with three of their relatives who were taking care of them. The troops then brutally slaughtered all seven members of the resistance.
 The previous day Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan led by Commander Mohamqnad Jan attacked the enemy's headquarters in Qarabagh district, located about 50 kilometres south-west of Ghazni city. Two army officers and seven
 militiamen were killed and four army posts, equipped with Dashaka machine guns and mortars, around the headquarters were wiped out.
    In a later incident Commander Mohammad Jan and 22 of his Mujahideen were killed in close
 fighting with Russian-Afghan troops. During the clash the Mujahideen destroyed three tanks, one APC and two other army vehicles. The crews of the vehicles and more than three dozen soldiers were killed.

 A village in Balkh
   The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
29
Kille
    The governor of Ghazni with the provincial head of intelligence (Khad) have been killed by Mjuahideen in heavy fighting during which about 75 tanks, armoured personnel carriers (A PC) and army trucks were destroyed.
                                                                                                                       In Mid October Russian forces
                                                                                                                   launched a heavy offensive on
                                                                                                                   mujahideen strongholds in Qara-
                                                                                                                   bagh and Jaghoori districts of
 Ghazni province. More than 500 tanks, APCs and army trucks, six
                                                                                                                   jets and SU 25 bombers and 19
                                                                                                                   helicopter-gunships took part in the
                                                                                                                                             offensive.
    The Russians have been trying to establish a district headquarters in Jaghoori, located about 90 kilometres south-west of Ghazni city, capital of Ghazni province. The district has been under the control of the mujahideen for the last six years.
 *V=

 Mujahideen examining pieces ol exploded rockets (Ghazni)
    Several contingents of artillery and infantry were air-dropped in Jaghoori and the other forces came into the area through Qara-bagh district, located 60 kilometres to the south-west of Ghazni city. The forces set up army posts en route to protect their convoys.
    The mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan from Qarabagh Muqar, Ajiristan and the shia's group jointly attacked the forces with rocket propelled grenades (RPG—7) 107—mm rockets and. mines. The mujahideen succeeded in destroying about 36 tanks and APCs near Qarabagh and were abie to wipe
 out the military posts set up during the past 24 days. The mujahideen destroyed about 40 tanks and APCs around these posts by using RPG—7s, 107—mm rockets and mines.
    During the fighting the provincial governor of Ghazni, Awaz AM, his? head of intelligence, Mirza Khan and the political-in-charge of Ghazni province with hundreds of soldiers were killed in Qarabagh, Looman, Angoori and Jaghoori areas.
    About 320 Afghan soldiers have defected to tf]e mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan during
 the fighting with their arms and ammunitions. The fighting is continuing. The Russian troops are now reported to have abandoned their efforts to establish a headquarters in Jaghoori and are trying to save their troops either by flying them out or by sending in reinforcements by land.
    In another operation on Oct. 12 in Qarabagh Russian forces surrounded the village of Spin Kariz and started looting the houses and setting them ablaze. They killed six innocent civilians and injured tow children.
 i
30
 i
The Mujahideen Monthly
                             Russian Army Base In Kunduz Heavily Damaged
Russian's second biggest military base in Afghanistan Dashti Abdan in the North-Eastern Province of Kunduz, has been heavily damaged with more than 3000 Russian casualties in an attack by Mujahideen of Hezb i-lslami Afghanistan.
    Following the attack the Russian Supreme Command in Afghanistan ordered the arrest of 12 senior Russian officers who survived and sent them t the Soviet Union for court martial on charges of incompetence.
    The successful attack was led by Commander Syed Hamidullah Billal who was provided with information by people who had access to the military base which is located 17 kilometres to the north of Kunduz city. Capital of Kunduz Province.
    The information included the location of ammunition depots, underground fuel tankers, residential blocks and, most important of all, the distance of each of these targets frorh the point of attack.
    The Mujahideen attacked the base in September with R—107 rockets and fired 55 of them. The shells hit key targets and the exploding ammunition and fuel resulted in an inferno and further explosions which wiped out 1 -
 the camp.
    The fire was so fierce and errup-ted so suddenly that the Russian troops did not get a chance to extinguish the flames or even to respond to the attack.
    According to Commander Syed Hamidullah and his Mujahideen the scene was so horrific that Afghans ■living up to five and six kilometres away fled their villages and took • refuge in caves.
    The Mujhideen said that Russian men ' and women / fan towards i. nearby villages to /try -to escape the attack and in one incident a group of 12 women-ran towards
 another military base Pul-i-Alchin — three of them naked. The attack and subsequent inferno happened so quickly that they had not had time to dress.
    Instead of running all the way to Pul-i-Alchin they ran into the house of an Afghan farmer, Ghulam Rasool, who was shocked at seeing them.
    Ghulam Rasool was later accused of trying to hand the women
 over to the Mujahideen and arrested by the Russians. His whereabouts are not known.
    In another incident a woman, whose four year old daughter was killed by the Russians a few days before the attack, had a heart attack because she was so overjoyed to see the base blazing and exploding.
    The Mujahideen said that about 50 residential blocks, fuel tankers, ammunition depots, one Ml—24 helicopter-gunship, one BM—13 rocket firer, about 130 tanks and army trucks and bullet making machines were destroyed. They said that about 3000 Russians were killed or wounded. The base was exploding and burning fiercely for 48 hours after the attack.
Russian Generals
Killed In Wardak
    Several Russian Generals and the daughter of a Russian Marshal were killed near Maidan Shahar in Wardak Province in mid-October in an attack by Mujahideen on a convoy of more than 200 tanks and army, vehicles.
    The attack followed information supplied to a senior commander of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan in the Maidan area, Major Amman-ullahj that a group of Russian Generals and the daughter of a Russian Marshal would be passing through his area on the way to Ghazni Province.
    According to the information the group would be in a big armoured personnel carrier (APC) and was conducting a strategic survey
 of Kabul, Wardak and Ghazni Provinces.
    Major Ammanullah's Mujahideen took up a position in Takhmak, in the Maidan area, about 23 kilometres south-west of Kabul on the highway. On Oct. 14 he sighted the convoy, with a cover of four Ml—24 helicopter-gunships, and the next day Mujahideen planted six anti-tank electrified mines I inked to detonator off the highway ahead of the vehicles.
    The convoy reached the area of the mines at about 10 a.m. Four tanks were immediately ahead of the APC. The Mujahideen let the tanks pass over the mines and when the APC reached them they detonated the explosives destroying the APC and two tanks.
The Mujahideen Monthly
 i
31
Captu'ed aims in Khawaia Uman
    The Russian Generals and the Marshal's daughter were killed. Soon after the explosion the convoy stopped and started firing in all directions until several helicopters arrived from Kabul an hour later and picked up the dead bodies.
    Next morning Russian troops came into the area and besides destroying villages arrested villagers who were travelling to or from Kabul. They took the villagers to the Governor's House at Maidan Shahar where he addressed them and accused them of killing the government's guests. Three of the villagers were directly blamed for having a role in the attack and detained while the rest were released.
    The whereabouts of those detained is not known.
                      /
 On Sept. 18 Russ rah forces entered Maiden area passing Pul-i Surk;h and attacked Muja-
 hideen positions. After about nine hours of heavy fighting the Mujahideen were able to repulse the enemy, killing about 35 troops.
    During the fighting the Mujahideen destroyed six tanks and seized two Kalakov machmeguns, two Garrinov machine-guns and ope ZK—I anti-aircraft gun.
    Two Mujahids, Abdul Jamil and Mohammad Ashooq were martyred and two others were wounded.
    On Sept. 23 the Russians launched a 'big offensive on a Mujahideen stronghold in Chak with BM—13 rocket firers, more than 100 tanks, 12 Mig—21 jets and 46 helicopters. Before launching the ground attack the Russians bombed the area for two days and dropped troops by helicopter on strategic areas.
    The Mujahideen shot down two helicopters and killed about 300 militias and Russian soldiers. In this offensive 67 civilians mainly women and children and two
 Mujahids were killed. The offensive lasted 20 days during which the Russians destroyed 670 houses, eight shops and two trucks-belonging the civilians.
    On Oct. 3 Mujahideen planted mines on Kabul Qandahar highway, Sheikhabad when a Russian convoy passed through the area they destroyed four tanks.
    On Oct. 5 two tanks were destroyed in the same area by mines. On 24 Oct. Mujahideen captured one car belonging to the Khad (government intelligence) unit in Mustikhil area. On Oct 28. two tanks were destroyed in Dashti Toops by mines planted by Mujahideen.
    On Oct. 14 Russian air forces attacked Sanglakh area, 60 kilometres south-west of Midan, the provincial headquarters of Wardak province. After bombing the Mujahideen positions they landed militias and soldiers by helicopter in the area.
                                                                                                                     Duting the operation Mujahi-
9
 \
 i
* 32
 i
The Mujahideen Monthly
 deeu of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan shot down one helicopter-Gunship Several houses, which had been vacated before the Russian offensive began, were destroyed. The Mujahideen were able to leave the area safely.
    Twenty three innocent re fugees were killed and seven other were seriously wounded by Russian Afghan troops in an ambush attack in Paktika province.
    On Dec. 5 a famous commander of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan, Rah-matullah, in Zarmat of Paktia province was running the gauntlet with his families, and other refugees to reach Pakistan via Paktika province.
    Commander Rahmatullah stayed for a night in Sar Rawaza, located about 20 kilometres to the northeast of Sharana, capital of Paktika provirffce. On December 7 Commander Rahmatullah proceeded towards the Pak-Afghan border. Famous Khad agent and member of Loi Jergah (National Tribal Assembly) Maulvi Sarwar Khan, spied on Rahmatullah and the other refugees.
    The Russian Afghan troops took ambush position in Charbaran area, located about 30 kilometres to the east of Sharana. The refugees were travelling by an ambulance and tractor. The Russian-Afghan troops opened fire whe/i the podr refugees were within ea&y ;range Twenty two refugees including Rahmatullah's family were martyred and Rahmatullah with other six refugees were 'seriously wounded.
                                                                                                                      In teports reaching Peshawar,
                                                                                                                   Mujahideen in Wardak province
                                                                                                                   say that during the month of
  October more than 130 Mujahids and civilians were killed in the
  area by Russian troops.
  I wo refugees were martyred when anti personnel mines, planted by the Russians, blew up under their feet, while they wanted to run away
     Commander Rahmatullah and the other six wounded refugees have been brought to Peshawar for treatment.
  On Oct. 18 the Russians established a camp in Pa raw, 25 kilometres east of Sharana. The Russians had 40 tanks and 35 tents at the camp.
   Mujahideen, undej CommandeT Mohammad Khaljcf j^docfUj att- , acked the camp twp da’v'S later with 82 -mm cannon, 1Q7—mm mortar-J and 82—mm rockets. After sheJUrftj the camp for about two hours the Mujahideen destroyed almost all the tanks and burned all the tents.
   During the operation more than a dozen jets and helicopters appeared in the air and bombed the Mujahideen's positions. As a result of the bombing the Mujahideen were not able to proceed into the camp.
   Because the Russians picked up the dead and injured by helicopter it was not possible to determine the extent of the enemy's casualties. One Mujahid was injured.
   On Nov. 8 a government supply convoy was on its way to Brigade No. 38 at Khayer Kot, 45 kilometres south-west of Sharana when the Mujahideen attacked it in the Yahya Khil area.
   More than 50 soldiers were killed and 15 seriously wounded. Two trucks and one 122—mm cannon were destroyed and one truck was captured. Four Mujehids were wounded.
      Mujahideen with wireless set I_____________ ________________
        23 Refugees Killed
The Mujahideen Monthly
33
          Jaji Chawni Attacked
    The Kabul strategic military headquarters near Pak-Afghan border, Jaji Chawni, in Paktia province has been besieged by the Mujahideen and heavy fighting is going on with R ussian A fghan tro ops, who were air-dropped in the area to free the headquarters.
    On the night of 13/14 December Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan (HIA) under the command of Major Abdul Ghani and commander Mohammad Daud have jointly attacked the Jaji Chawni (army headquarters), located 12" kilometres to the west of Tira Mangal, border town of Pakistan. About 500 Mujahideen have taken part in the operation.
    The Jaji Chawni is one of the strongest army headquarters, which is usually difficult for the Mujahideen to wipe it out. Once in 1984 the headquarters was wiped out by commander Mohammad Naim, on the price of 22 martyres and several wounded including Naim himself, but it was reinstalled by the Russians. Last September the Russians sent two divisions to Jaji area to reinforce the Jaji Chawni, which resulted on the destruction of 105 tanks and trucks and seven aircrafts were shot down during two months fighting throughout Paktia province.
    According to the reports sent by Lieutenant Hassan Niaz, in charge of Hezb-i-lslami Office in Para Chinar, Pakistani town, that the fighting started late in the evening of Dec, 13 and it still continues. Mujahideen were able to occupy 12 peaks ahd important strategic posts from the Kabul troops. .The posts were equipped
   with heavy artillery and light weapons.
      Niaz said that the commander of Jaji Chawni, Brigadier Allah Mohammad Waziri. district administrator of Ali Khel, Mohammad Shireen, in charge of the party affairs of Jaji army base, Sayd Akram with several Khad (government intelligence staff) were killed. Eight Mujahideen were mat tyred
  and 1*6 other wounded, whom 11 of them were very serious and have been transferred to Peshawar.
     The reports add that reinforcement troops have beeri sent both by air and land from Kabul, Snahri-now brigade and Gardez, capital .of Paktia province. A lot of commandos have been air-dropped around the base to break the siege ; and save their army base. On the other hand dozens of soldiers have escaped during the night and joined the Mujahideen. The Russian-Afghan casualties are not
-----------------1--------------------
 known yet.
   Further reports reaching Islamabad- from Jaji area say that consecutive bombardments and shelling of posts occupied by the Mujahideen are continuing by the Russians.
   The reports add that four helicopters stationed in the Jaji Chawni, (ar.iv base) for emergency use were destroyed in the
 first few hours of the Mujahideen attack on December 13.
   Mujahideen have captured two Uboos-122mm cannons, one ZK-1, several dashaka machineguns and a lot of arms ammunition from the military posts. The Mujahideen were able to destroy the main tower of the arm base by operating the captured cannons.
   The Karmal troops are strengthening their positions by having fresh troops sent by air from Kabul. Two civilians were martyred on December 15 by the shelling.
Rifle seized
34
The Mujahideen Monthly
       March forth light and heavy and strive
      hard with your riches and your lives in the
      way of Allah ; that is the best for you, if
     you have knowledge
                                                 Tawba 41
     Wherefore faint not, nor cry out for peace
     and you shall be triumphant and Allah is
     with you, and He will not defraud you of
     your work
                                       Mohammad 35
 The Mujahideen Monthly
                 i
\ [