zaps
mom a J&rtt


       We want to establish an Islamic Government in Afghanistan that is independent, non-aligned and Islamically elected. Our Jihad will continue until this goal is a reality.
       We insist on election as the only practical way for solving the current Afghan crisis. No Government other than an elected Islamic one will be able to put an end to the war and establish durable peace and security in Afghanistan.
       The internal and external policy of our Government will be based on Qur’an andSunnah. We will make independent judgements on all international issues and maintain friendly relations with all states except those that are engaging in activities detrimental to our faith, independence and territorial integrity.
       The Islamic state of Afghanistan will take all possible measures to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals and will promote science and technology for the reconstruction, development, self-reliance and self-sufficiency of our state.
kTHE

N
 No. 4,5th year October / November, 1991
Founded By Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan

S.No. Article                               Page
 01   Editorial                      . *                    03
 02   Madrid Conference conspiracy against Palestinians        04
 03    A storm in a teacup                                  05
 04   Anti-American sentiments intensify in the Muslim World ' 06
 05    Towards Gardez                                       08
 06    Dynamism of Faith                                    10
 07    News Roundup                                         11
 08    Necessity of Change                                  14
                    i Y
 09    Hekmatyar talks to Soviet Journalist                 15
 10    From Bukhara to Kabul                1               19
  i'
Die Mujahideen, October! November, 1991
Page 02

E
 11    Accredition of Man
 12    Ustaz "Zara" talks to "Shahadat"
 13    Story of a young Magahid
 14    Islamic Encyclopaedia
 15    Why does Iran want Hekmatyar's head 9
                ♦ •
 16    An Empire of Illusions
 17    Qazi Hussain Ahmad predicts end of US power
 18    Genocide of Arakan's Muslims
 19    Position of Women in Islam
 20    Affection of the Prophet for Children
 21    Islalmic Party in USSR
 22    A tale of arrogance
 23    Garlic: A useful Medicine
 24    Universal Goodness
 25    Periodica Islamica
 26    Letters to the Editor
 21
 22
 23
 24
 25 28
 31
 32 35
 39
 40
 41
 42
 43
 46
 47

YOU CAN (JET OUR MAGAZINE FROM THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
TO:               TO:                         TO: ,                    
AIJKHAN           GULZAI                      HIA                      
P.O.BOX #3081     GEORGIA COLLEGE             BM BOX#                  
NEW DELHI 110003  C.P. BOX# 1000              2084                     
INDIA             MILLEDGEVILLE               IjflNDON                 
TO:               G.A.31061-1000              WCIN3XX                  
AHMADSHAHQAYUMI   USA                         ENGLAND                  
GROFT1IOJPARKEN,  TO:                                                  
157TH             IAM                         TO:                      
8260-VIBY-J       ARY SCHEFFER STR. 10        HIA                      
ARHUS-DENMARK     2597 VV DENHAG              H#B-40 BLOCK             
TO-               HOLAND                      ABDUL HASS AN ASFHANI    
IAM               TO-                         ROADHULSHAN-E-IQBAL      
                                              KARACHI 47               
46 AVENUEDE       M. SHARIF AMIN 10-44-EPPING I7AD ATUT                
TERVUREN          ROAD-LANE COVE              IN AlvA\-ill             
1040BRUXLLES      (NSW) 2066                  TO:                      
BELGIQUE /        AUSTRALIA                   AFGII AN M U J Ai IIDEEN 
                (                             INFORMATION              
TO: , 1           TO:                         BUREAU 14126SHERMAN      
P O. BOX# 443     HIA                         WASDY+201                
FLUSHING. Y 11352 THEATHERSTR. 12             'VANNUYS.CA              
USA               53 BONN 1                   91405                    
-                 WESTGERMANY                 USA                      
 TO:
 J-MANSOOR 61 FRANEL-CR WBSTTON-DNT M91-IB6 CANADA
 TO:
 HIA
 15, RUEDE PROG RES 93230 ROM AINVILLE FRANCE
 TO:
 IAM
 P.O.BOX #394 STATION (O 0 M4A
 2N9 TORONTOONTARIO CANADA
TO:
O.A.M
902/4 JALAN TUN ISMAIL
KUALALUMPUR MALAYSIA
                        s •                  The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991                       f -f. Page03
US Blocking Peace in Afghanistan
        
        
        
m// Q ) 
        
This is an established fact albeit an unpleasant one that in the present world the western media is controling the flow of information which is often biased, especially when it is concerned with the Muslim countries or the Third World. The western media is also trying her best to misguide world opinion about the situation in Afghanistan. Presently it is engaged in a campaign to paint ‘Afghans’ as not interested in
peace in their country. The uninformed or little informed people about the situation in Afghanistan or the behavior of Afghan masses; or those who are living far away from Afghanistan, usually depend on western media for information on Afghanistan and the same biased information serve as a basis of their decisions
or conclusions. The western media is very adept in belittling the importance of a great success of Mujahideen on the battle front or political arena but blow up the minor disputes among various Mujahideen groups which are not unnatural keeping in view the activities of the agents of enemies who miss no opportunity in this connection. The CIA, WAD, RAW and even Israeli secret service Mossad is also active in
Afghanistan to cause damage to the unity of Afghan Mujahideen and to block the way of the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
So the propaganda campaign unleashed by th(e western media, led by American and British news agencies, should be seen in the
proper perspective in order to bring to light their malafide intentions.
The USA on one hand is hobnobbing with the Soviet Union and on the other hand pressurizing neighbourly countries of Afghanistan to accept a US sponsored solution of the Afghan problem. She is also using UNO as a tool in this connection; a sorry state of affairs for this prestigious world body. The people world over look towards UNO as a machinary for peace and human progress. It should help oppressed nations to achieve their due rights. It should in no case be a party to a conspiracy against oppressed nations. It is better for UNO to do nothing but it should in no case become a tool in the hands of a superpower. The Bush administration is trying to impose ex-king Zahir Shah who fled to the west instead of helping Mujahideen in their Jihad against Russian intervention. She is also doing her best to contact such personalities who decided to go to the western countries and even acquired foreign nationalities and she is doing every thing to install another puppet regime in Kabul.
The United States by doing so
r
 wants to deprive Afghan Mujahideen of the fruit of their long and historic struggle against foreign intervention. It was the Afghan Mujahideen who not only kicked Russian forces out of Afghanistan but also paved the way for the liberation of predominantly Muslims in Central Asian republics from the yoke of Kremlin. The changes in the Eastern Europe and independence of Baltic republics is also the result of the Afghan Jihad.
 It is impossible. No one could deprive Afghan Mujahideen of the fruits of their historical Jihad which left about 1.5 million martyrs, thousands of injured and crippled and rendered about 5 million homeless. Such a nation could not allow some surrogates
              f
 or puppets of foreign powers to decide their destiny.
 By conspiring against Muslim people of Afghanistan; it is America which is blocking efforts of peace in Afghanistan various Afghan leaders and especially Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, has so many times said that no one more than Afghans could be interested in ' peace in Afghanistan. Afghans want peace because they have already paid a heavy price to safeguard their independence. Other people or nations may be wanting peace in Afghanistan because of their humanitarian concerns but Afghans need it. It is in their interests. They know that their country is being destroyed
SSS& The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991         Page 04
  and theirresources being depleted. ✓---------------------------x
  So no one would accept the false         Madrid conference      ^
  propaganda that the Afghan              conspiracy  against
  themselves are not interested in         Palestianins : JI
  peace. For the cause of peace in                                  |
  their country, Afghan Mujahideen           Lahore:       Madrid   ^
  have so many times declared conference was the first part ^ general amnesty for all those who           American plot to ^
  are ready to repent their past    provide security umbrella to  ^
  misdeeds and work for the          Israel. This was observed by   ^
  progress of their country in future. t*ie Jamaat-e-Islami (JI)    ^
                                      Pakistan, which met here ^ The general amnesty declaration     under the chairmanship of its ^
  is still intact. And this is in     Amir, Senator Qazi Hussain ^
  complete contrast to the behaviour Ahmad,
  of the Allied powers after the             A resolution passed ^
  world war II who did not spare     in the meeting said, for the ^
  their enemies for their war crimes next step America would        ^
  even after their death. The western bring Arabs and Isrelis to the ^
  media resembles the bat which      negotiation table face to face ^
  could not see in the light. It is  and finally America would      |
  very much clear that USA is not    make Arabs recognisie the      |
  interested in peace in Afghanistan. Zionist state.
  She wants a civil war in this              The resolution said ^
  country. She wants to deprive the  that those who participated in  ^
  freedom loving nation of           the conference as Arabs did    ^
  Afghanistan of their fruits of a   not represent Palestinians.    ^
  successful Jihad. She wants to     The resolution condemned       ^
  block the dawn of the Islamic      the resettlement of the Jewish ^
  revolution in our country. She is  immigrants in Israel and        |
  worried that Islamic revolution in added that it was nothing but  ^
  Afghanistan could serve as a       an encroachment and illegal  ^
  catalyst for similar revolutions in and immoral violation of the   ^
  the other parts gf the world and   human rights of a nation,
  thus threataing her hegemony.              The resolution said ^
                                      that the only solution of the ^ It is however, clear beyond any     Palestine issue lies in “waging ^
  shadow of doubt, that American      a Jihad against Israel. The   ^
  foreign policy is totally against   entire Muslim Ummah and       ^
  Islam and Muslims; but with the     the judicious peopleshould    |
  help of Allah Almighty the         help, the Palestinian in thier ^
  oppressed Muslims of just struggle against the | iAfghanistan would also dash to     oppressors and “Allah would  ^
  ground the nefarious designs of    help them to accomplish their  ^
  the only super power United        sacred struggle,” the          |
  States. The fate of USSR should    resolution added. H
  be an eye-opener for her. -       ^
                                                                                                  Madrid conference conspiracy against Palestianins: JI
       Lahore:      Madrid
 conference was the first part of the American plot to provide security umbrella to Israel. This was observed by the Jamaat-e-Islami (JI) Pakistan, which met here under the chairmanship of its Amir, Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad.
       A resolution passed in the meeting said, for the next step America would bring Arabs and Isrelis to the negotiation table face to face and finally America would make Arabs recognisie the Zionist state.
       The resolution said that those who participated in the conference as Arabs did not represent Palestinians. The resolution condemned the resettlement of the Jewish immigrants in Israel and added that it was nothing but an encroachment and illegal and immoral violation of the human rights of a nation.
       The resolution said that the only solution of the Palestine issue lies in “waging a Jihad against Israel. The entire Muslim Ummah and the judicious peopleshould help, the Palestinian in thier just struggle against the oppressors and “Allah would help them to accomplish their sacred struggle,” the resolution added. u
 I
 I
                     The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 wwmUMBmKftaffKmimUt$:Page 05
                        ^MADRID^
      A STORM IN A TEA CUP
             (iBNABAYOMf )
         “In the city of the blind” so goes the saying “one eyed is their king”. But today the blind seems again to be drunk and the self-made ruler is a proven cheat. No land is too sacred for him to defile, no honour too high for his men to soil and no trick is too difficult for his court to perform. The result is a new ruling order on the globe where diplomatic legitimacy must be given to every international exploitation and blanket approval to broad-day denial while generations; one after the other, are stripped of their identities, as much as land and honour in the evil dominion of oppression just to keep the banal ship of Zionism afloat.
         Madrid remained till last week an entirely unknown and quiet city. Its inhabitants were not famous for ungodliness or profanity. But today its name has been tarnished by the unkind shoes that aligted on its lawns to discuss what history will definitely record as oneof the greatest political robbery of the century. It may sound funny, but still very true that the hands that raised Madrid to prominence today were the very ones that masterminded the notorious Desert-Storm campaign and partook happily in the merciless murdering of tens of thousand
                                               Afghan students demonstrating in Peshawar to condemn the Middle East peace conference in Madrid
    innocent children, women, and the aged just less than year ago in the same Middle East which the world is clamoring to settle.
              What aconference! and what a cheat!! Today, men wearing their best suits and native outfits but harbouring in their inner selves the greatest animosity aganist justice, liberty and self-determination, are sitting before a psychologically be-witched audience numbering into scores of millions all around the globe to rewrite their names and those of their countries again in the memories of men after been repeatedly violated by unsurpassed despotism, and documented cases of atrocities.
              Luckily we say, nature can not be cheated and not all men are dunces. There are still those who could see that the white gloves which the so-called peace-initiators are wearing bear multiple stains of blood and the symbolic doves of peace they set-free to fly grow red tails instead of white.
              If Baathism has invaded Tehran, that was good, and Britain in falklands, China in Tibet, India in Kashmir or South Africa in any of the so-called front-line states are alright and fine. Here there shouldn’t be any Pandemonium. But a Persian Gulf threatened of its oil wells, or Islamic armed struggles in Afghanistan and Kashmir, or kids throwing pebbles in occupied lands of the Middle East or Palestinians on the street of Jerusalem demanding a return of their lands; is of course terrorism and anti-internationalism. It is must therefore be quenched.... Madrid therefore is serving not as a veil to cover, but as a show-case to expose the latent truths of life. Every body will see better than before that if he or she refuses to defend his natural honour the coming days might not be kind enough to protect him or his race from genocide. Revolutionary struggle is no more a theoretical possibility but a socio-political necessity in winning back liberty and freedom, to safeguard the rule of sanity and equity as well as guarantee a sojourn of peace and tranquility, on this earth before the hereafter.
              One may start asking why is Washington now interested in » peace after disturbing the peaceful neighborhood of our planet for more than fifty years? Why has Spain become the meeting centre of the Jews and Christians after obliterating all traces of 800 years of Muslim rule on the same land? Why is Syria trying to project its image as the most radical champion of the Arab cause after the worst capitulation and willing co-operation in the Gulf Crisis? Why is Iran reviving its anti-Americanism after receiving repeated but sufficient bluff and snobbery from Washington?
              Why...? and Why...?, it continues without an erid. The teenage who looked at himself as almighty in the isolated island of the fable Lilliputians was of course wrong. This isn’t Lillipqt any way, its the planet earth. Truth could be buried alive and its grave concreted with slab stones, but it will never die. Its seekers and lovers would one day locate its tomb, and Truth will once again rise up to pervade on earth. The Holy Qur’an says: Say the Truth has come and vanity has disappeared for certainly,falsehood is (meant) to vanish"
                                            Banilsrail 17:81. ■

 The Mujahideen, October I November. 1991
              Xnti-American                  
sentiments ii ntensify in the Mi tslim World 
          By: A llamudin Alheer
         Robert B. Oklay, former US ambassador to Pakistan, has warned that anti-American campaigns in some Islamic countries have increased feelings against
 Washington. According to the voice of America, Oklay, who is also the senior co-ordinator of the US Institute of peace, said that efforts to prove the United States an enemy of Islam were stepped up in the wake of the Gulf War. He said that in many Muslim countries information revolution has doubled the public awareness to participate in the formation of governments and official decision making. Oklay, while addressing a seminar on the
  Middle East arranged by the Centre for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said "anger against the United States is visible which is a result of the US support for Israel." The belief that there is a great social and economic inequality between the ruling classes and the people in the countries friendly to the United States has also increased anti-US feelings. Such beliefs were not always right, he said.
       “In my view more worrying is the deliberate effort to portray the US as anti-Islamic force. As these things are often said by religious scholars before the uneducated masses, they take root in their minds. More efforts are needed to dispel such dangerous1 ideas. Therefore, the government *and nqp-government organizations in the United States should work together . to improve America’s image in the Islamic World.”
         Oklay remarked that extraordinary importance is given to Islam in movements for national, regional and racial liberation. Afghan Mujahideen’s drawn out war against the Soviet Union has increased the importance of religion as they fought this war under the banner of Islam.
         Accordipg to Robert Oklay,
many Muslims in the Sub-continent consider the Intifada an Islamic struggle and believe Islam would ultimately overcome Israel. According to him uprising against India, which started two years ago, is still strong and is under the influence of Islam. As it happened in the occupied territories of West Bank and Gaza Strip, the movement in Kashmir is gaining momentum and is pushing moderate and traditional parties into background. Oklay recalled that during the Gulf war many in the Islamic countries believed that Saddam’s war against the United States would help the Islamic movements world over. They considered Saddam Hussain a champion of Islam and the oppressed. The defeat, however, tumished his image. So the expected revolutionary changes in the Islamic world as a result of Gulf crisis did not take place. The situation, he said, has returned to normal.
        He said that political evolution in the Central Asian republics of the Soviet Union has opened the doors for Islamic influence. He expected that Iran, Pakistan and Turkey would take keen interest in these new countries. Saudi Arabia and other Islamic countries will not only take keen interest ip the happenings of the Central Asia but also possibly influence the formation of future governments there. He pointed out that the fundamentalist Ikhwan-ul-Muslimeen party and all organizations linked with it tried to bring the people to the streets
                                                                     The Mujahideen, October/ November, 1991 mmmmmmmmmmm Page 07 WWWMBWWS
exploiting the Gulf crisis. The obvious purpose of these demonstrations was to support Saddam Hussain but the real purpose was to weaken despotic governments in some countries. From the observations of Robert B.' Oklay, the former US Ambassador to Pakistan which was published in the daily "The News" the following facts could be deduced i.e. he has warned that anti-American sentiments in some Islamic countries are on the rise, anger against the United States is visible among the Muslims which is a result» of the US support for Israel and, at the end, he has come up with a suggestion to solve the above problems.
        Oklay’s observations could be analysed as follows:
He observes that anti-American feelings in the Muslim world is a dangerous' signal to US interests the world over. He urges American government and non-government organizations to work together in order to prevent such anti-American feelings in the Islamic countries. Therefore, according to him the Americans should try to improve their image as to show that they are not enemies of Islam and the Muslims.
        Efforts to convene a Middle East peace conference to resolve Arab-Israeli conflict and to return , some occupied Palestinian land is primarily targeted at appeasing Muslims and could be considered as an indication of the so-called US friendship with them. According to this Ameircan diplomat the other thing which Ameirca h<(s,to fear is the political awareness/of Muslim nations. By this he wants to confess to the fact .that the Muslin massed will no longer let their fate be
determined by imperialists who colonise them through one-man rule.
        Through his observations he forewarns the US and other powers of the existence of a threat to their imperialistic designs for the exploitation of other nations' resources. To him they have to develop new formulas to achive their objectives. The overwhelming desire of majority of Muslims to implement Islam in every walk of their life, is considered another dangerous signal to the United States and other imperialistic forces, because in establishing Islamic government Muslims will no longer imitate the footsteps of the Kuffar (infidels).
        He further maintains that the sensitivity and anger of the Muslims against the United States is visible which is a result of the US support for the Jewish state. He points out indirectly to the US administration to deal with Israel rather secretly. Apparently George Bush’s refusal to grant a $ 10 billion loan to Israel is an attempt to decrease the Muslims’ hatred towards the US. To counter these anti-American feelings all over the Muslim world he puts forward the following solutions:
Firstly, the US government should counter the Muslim intelligentsia and Ulema, “religious scholars” who introduce America as a great Satan and the real enemy of Islam. The United States should take preventive measures to eliminate or at least minimise these propaganda threats against! its interests, but it is quite unlikely that it could achieve its objectives completely.
{Secondly, America should by whatever means possible try to change the mentality of the Muslim masses and to project itself as a good ally of Islamic countries.
Thirdly, the US should try to deminish the important role played by Islamic movements in awakening the Muslim masses.
Fourthly, the US should eradicate the religious influence on the Muslim struggles for independence, establishing justice, equality and brother-hood among the Islamic countries. To achieve this end, America is out to brand the Afghan Jihad,the Kashmiris Islamic struggle and the Palestinian Intifada as mere nationalistic, racial or civil strifes. The US also wants to help the moderate and liberal parties in the Islamic countries so as to chanllenge the advances of the genuine Muslim movemments.The American diplomat also stresses the point that, America should do its best in reducing anti-U$ feelings which have been created by the Gulf conflict. The formerUS ambassador is fearful of independence of the Central Asian Muslim republics. He considers their independence a step forward in strengthening the Muslim world . He indirectly urges the US and USSR governments to prevent this to happen. This is because Central Asia once was a great centre of tearing and a symbol of Muslim civilisation and no doubtit will regain its leadership role when it is fiilly independent. At the end, this American diplom at suggests that the Ikhwan-ul-muslimeen along with other Islamic movements associated with it should be suppressed by whatever means available. We Muslims should be ready to face the challenges and inroads of different enemies of Islam particularly that of the Zionists with stem resistance. For us it is an obligation to defend Islam, the tenitorieal integrity of all Muslims and the dignity of the entire Ummah. .
  Translation:     Sayed A"Nasr"
 i
                                                                                                                       The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
mmmmmPage08 mmmmi
TOWARDS
GARDEZ
 i
(AbuAbudullah
         The military battle for the removal of another major vestige of oppression in Afghanistan seemed to have commenced. As there is political pandemonium on unpragmatic peace-initiatives in Peshawar, fierce fighting is on in Afghanistan in what could be called a defiant demonstration by the military commanders on the great possibility of removing the Marxist puppet regime in Kabul through armed conflict
    TheMujahideen are again proving that they are capable of removing the Marxist regime in-Kabul through revolutionary armed *                      struggle
 )
           What the poineers and abetters of the so-cal led roundtable conference where-in Mujahideen would be invited to sit and talk peace-terms with theenemy should understand, is that, such a programme seems to be about a decade late, hence doomed to fail ever before commencing.
           The intention here is not to deny the possibility of pressurizing some Afghan political leaders into accepting negotiation of peace with Kabul nor the improbability of the UN to pass resolutions under Washington’s manipulation that would force a permanent peace-fire and not cease-fire as its was in the last Gulf crisis. These options are possible. Our own contention is simply based on the attainability of a lasting new socio-political structure in Afghanistan without prior and complete obliteration of communism as well as other relics of foreign imperialism in the country.
           As if to make things worse, the advocates of quadruple delegations to different capitals in the World in winning a nonexisting concessions, are busy fighting amongst themselves on who should lead which group. Ironically all parties concerned have apparently agreed to remain divided as long as no one is prepared to step down or drop the whole fabulous project. The matter remains unfinshed since no agreement could be formed among them.
           But Afghan crisis did not originate from Pakistan or Iran, and therefore cannot end there. Nor are their Mujahideen's military bases in USSR or America. The people who drove away ex-king Zahir Shah were Afghans and those who invited the Red Army and now enjoy massive Western support are ’Afghans. The struggle since inception has been confined to the geographical boundary of Afghanistan. If there is going to be any solution, so to say, it has to be settled inside the country by the people themselves and not from outside nor under foreign pressure.
           This is why Gardez is not only an armed and revolutionary conflict against a heavily defended strategic provincial capital of Paktia but also a political reward that has a mammoth advantage for any onewho finally controls the city.
                                                   f
           Since last Ramadhan, when the overblown Western theory of military stalemate was shattered by the successful liberation of Khost, Kabul regime has been finding it difficult to come to grips with the nightmare of Mujahideen overruning
 i
The Mujahideen, October t November, 1991 *:
g; Page 09
 Kabul. This might be justified somehow because the zeal, determination, strategy and accomplishment that all came with the Mujahideen in liberating Khost was novel since the beginning of Afghan crisis.
         What Kabul regime failed however to understand was that the Mujahideen who used to be known by the White House psyche as the barefooted and divided group had eventually learnt from history. They have also chosen Ramadhan as a turning point in their armed conflictagainst global imperialism represented by the Marxist clique in the country. This month has always been a month of trials, will and power. A month of repentance and commitment. Apart from the spiritual dominance of the mind over the sensuality of the self, it has witnessed the greatest military and political victories in Islamic history.
         These all are fresh confirmations that Afghan Jihad draws its inspiration from Islam alone and its completion would never be, Allah willing except in fulfillment of Islamic fundamental principles. Solutions therefore should not be sought except in accepting the natural rights of the Afghans to choose their way.                                  , *>
         For twelve bloody years. Mujahideen forces strenuously tried separately to claim the honour of liberating that heavily guarded border town. Khost today is fully secured under Mujahideen's hands but its revolutionary message would stay longer. It has to be considered here too so as to be able to appraise how far Muslim Revolutionaries have gone in uprooting the imperialist menace on the battle field.
         Khost like Gardez is a strongly fortified city. The latter lies on a major route that qmbraces Logar and Kabul. The former is a border town, falling within the range of 200 kilometres from Peshawar and 50 kilometres from the nearest Pakistani Frontier Post. The fall of Gardez will mean a southern 1 barricade of Kabul.from many provinces though its link with the Soviet Union could still remain open for sometime.
     k
         The reasons why Marxist forces held out at Khost for almost a decade was primarily due not to superior arsenals available to them but as a direct consequence of Mujahideen's separatist inclination then. In any revolutionary struggle, fora common cause, unity of purpose, integration of method and primacy of not allowing petit differences to prevent the establishment of united revolutionary command are fundamental principles that could neither be by-stepped partially, nor compromised totally under any circumstances.
         Any attempt to go into the battle alone against a common enemy and for a particular cause that belongs exclusively not to an individual or a certain group, is not only a political blunder or military miscalculation but also a revolutionary contradiction. The reason is simple: the cause belongs to all, and the aim is to transform the community entirely. This means the greatest the participation of everybody, the easier it becomes in fulfilling the objective of changing the whole society. That was the major explanation why earlier attempts by the Mujahideen in separately capturing this city had been futile.
         Strategically, Khost like Gardez is a valley town which enjoys natural defence lines of endless chains of mountains. At a point about five kilometres to the center of the city are numerous confluences of seasonal rivers which form additional security belt around the city. In a sophisticated war, the citadel so formed from this natural landscape could be stormed by a well developed mechanized division of twentieth or twenty-first century Army.
                                                       %
         Since the town falls comparatively in the center, cutting across through a targential section of the defence circle is suffice in guaranteeing a base which could be used in constructing make-shift bridges overnight. That appears to be the best that could be done as at now over these rivers. The depth and numbers of large masses of rocks present great dangers to any military navigation scheme. Similarly, airborne
r
                                        :■ The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 #:                m Page 10
 troops could be landed behind enemy’s communication lines.
 Bui none of these propositions nor others could be applied here for the mere-fact that the Mujahideen have few heavy weapons needed in prosecuting these ideas.

         The simple strategy used by the Mujahideen in Kbost is now again being applied verbatim in Gardez. The clue is this:- (a) Integrated operations, (b) mass mobilization of available forces (c) concentrated use of long range artilleries in bugging down the enemies in their defence positions and hideouts (d) well co-ordinated seige-advance tactics on the enemy and (e) a final man-to-man engagement with light ammunition by the troops.
         This method worked well, and is still very effective today in the provincial capital of Paktia. Mujahideen, have suffered losses too because the puppet regime seems to be making a desperate last attemptto defend itself. Najib himself was reported to have visited Gardez under the cover of darkness so as to raise the fighting morale of his troops.
         Up to the time of writing: Gardez is completely an isolated city. 1 ts coded messages are conveniently intercepted. No reinforcement could come to the Marxist soldiers except through the air which is itself very risky due to Mujahideen close anti-Aircraft guns. According to some leading commanders on the front, the fall of Gardez would, Allah willing be easier than that of KhosL Some of the military officers of the Mujahideen even contest that the Muslim revolutionary forces have the power today to march on Kabul if Gardez should fall now.
         In its belated attempt to prevent total capitulation, Kabul has resorted to using “human shield” as Saddam did in the Gulf to prevent missile attack on thecity. Najib himself has issued instructions not to allow further civilians to leave the city. But in reality this is only a technical difficulty, because by the time Gardez is liberated, Kabul also could be totally isolated from the world forcing all her inhabitants, both ci vil ian and military to surrender under the pangs of hunger. With the fall of Banuzai and Halecm Qila which are at close vicinity of Balahisar fort, and with the capturing of Ealadeh and Fort Najib that both fall to the South of the city; The Mujahideen could be said to be a kilometre and a half from the heart of Gardez.
         The heavy aerial bombardment of Mujahideen positions by the puppet regime would not help it nor would the Western orchestrated so-called peace initiatives. The solution lies in Jihad. If the UN or other self-made friends of Afghan Mujahideen really believe in ending the Afghan conflict, let them hands off rather than increase Lheir interference. Let Afghans choose their owrt set of new leaders instead of others imposing a distrusted personalty on the nation. In short the people must be given the total freedom at removing Najib and his unpopular regime as much as the complete liberty of establishing a truly representative Islamic state.Q
                    Dynamism of Faith
         Let the Will of Allah be done and we should raise His name even at the point of death. Our entry must be to fulfil His word, as our exitmustbea testimony in H i s cause. The strength of a man resides in his mind and the 1 ink with his Lord projects from his faith. Islam covers everything in the life of a Muslim. The Holy Qur’an is the highest authority in any truly Islamic community. In the appointed ■•Messenger of Allah lies the best exaihple for all -sincere believers. A good Muslim prefers to be martyred, than bows to the enemy of Allah. Faith in Allah, submission to His law s, obedience to His orders, devotion to His cause, rebance on His care and martyrdom on His path, are all attributes of a Muslim Mujahid. Allah indeed has saidr-
 ”Among the Believers are men who are truthful to what they contracted Allah upon. Among them have already fulfilled their vow (ofmartyrdom) and (others} among them are waiting (for their own turns). While they have not dishonoured their pledges in any form.” (Al-Ahzab 33:32)
         When a Muslim is sincere in Faith, Islam becomes his mother and father. Islam becomes his relatives, race, nation and tribe. Islam overtakes his thinkings and doings. He is a Muslim dead or alive. He gives all he has readily away for the cause of Islam. Allah says:-
                 ftAmong humanity is such that would sell himself out to seek the pleasure of Allah and Allah is most Compassionate with His slaves. (Al-Baqarah 2:207)
         But if one pretends to be aMuslim.retaining only the name, while casing off the Islamic way of life of true faith and complete obedience to the Most Gracious, then Islam to such is assumed to be a costume that could be changed at random. Since he appears today in a form and tomorrow in another. He introduces himself as a Muslim whenever material benefit is involved, but later violates the simplest code of conduct expected of a believer W;hen he is admonished to reform and amend, he mistakens consultation for confrontation, and becomes obstinate and violent. His account lies with Allah. The Most High says:
                                                \
         '‘Whenever he turns away, goes about on earth spreading iniquity there-in, destroying cultivation and husbandry, while Allah loves not mischief. But if told (to) fear Allah, he is seized by arrogance in pervertedness. Enough is Hell For him and miserable it is a place of rest.” (Al-Baqarah 2:205-206). •
mssxxmm'tr j
   | m                                         77* Mujahideen, October! November, 1991                                  :; U
 [By: Stayed Anwar *Nasr"^

                                  Fighting between Mujahideen and Kabul regime forces have been reported from different provinces of Afghanistan in which Mujahideen have claimed victories at different battle-fronts.



October, 1:
       Gardez Flghtteg
       The Mujahideen were making hectic efforts for fortifying their positions in the newly captured areas around Gardez and enforced their supplies, reports Afghan News Agency. In their attack mujahideen captured 26 security posts, a number of regime’s tanks, and other mili tars1 bases of strategic importance.
       Heavy bombardment on the Mujahideen positions around Gardez especially on the Zurmat District were reported. Around 12 Mujahideen were reportedly
 martyred in the continuous air raids and Scud attacks. The Mujahideen are reported to have killed or injured dozens of regime’s soldiers in the two days fighting. Severe bombings of die regime Jet l ighters continued over Mujahideen positions around the garrison. The regime bombers dropped cluster and parachute bombs and bobby traps around the Gardez city to disrupt Mujahideen movements. The bobby traps are aimed at stopping Mujahideen entries into the city on the one hand, and hindering regime officials surrender to the Mujahideen on the other. Meanwhile the Mujahideen are working quickly to capture the city before the snow falls. Despite the senever winter ahead they are resolved to continue the siege of Gardez.
October, 2:
                                       Nine tanks II trucks destroyed
      Latest reports from Laghman speak of fierce battle between Mujahideen and the communist regime forces at Mehtarlam, the capital of the province, reports (ANA). According to a wireless message received by ANA the Mujahideen killed 70 regime personnel, destroyed nine tanks and eleven military trucks and set ablaze an ammunition dump. The capital of Laghman Province Came as the second target of the Mujahideen after launching the ground offensive on Gardez on September 30.
 Forward they march: The Mujahideen are more determined than ever to defeat all *              ^____________ international  counspiracies
October, 2:
                                         Logar-Gardez highway dosed
       Mujahideen closed the Logar-Gardez highway aft era Kotal for all sorts of traffic to disrupt any communist regime re-inforcements to the besieged military garrison of Gardez. In the adjacent Logar
Province Mujahideen have unleashed heavy artilary fire on the regime positions at Pule Alam. Meanwhile, reports reaching from Maidan-Wardak Province says that Mujahideen have launched a surprise attack on regime’s installations and destroyed four tanks and two military Jeeps while captured one tank and five regime soldiers.
October* 3:
                                           Said Karam District captured
       Theonly adjacent district of Gardez in regime’s control. Said Karam fell to the Afghan Mujahideen, reports ANA. According to details Mujahideen entered this district, 8 kilometers North-East of Gardez garrison and after a fierce fighting captured the district. Said karam, the native district of the puppet regime president, Najib, was the only district that protected Gardez from the North-East of the city.
October, 5:
Afghan leaders reject Soviet proposal for coalition govt
       Peshawar: Leaders of the four major political parties of Mujahideen have rejected the Soviet proposal for the formation of a Mujahideen coalition government in Afghanistan with the incumbent prime minister, Fazal Haq Khaliqyar reports Afghan News Agency. In this connection the chief of Ittehad-e-Islami, Professor Abdur Rab Rasool Syyaf, chief of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, Burhanuddin Rabbani, representative pf Hezb-i-I si ami . Afghanistan Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal and chief of Hezb-c-Islami Maulayi Khalis, met in
Peshawar and hold a detailed discussion over the political developments on the Afghan problem. All the leaders unanimously rejected the proposal of Soviet Union for the formation of a coalition government with the communists. The leaders held Khaliqyar squally responsible for the crimes against the nation. They said that there was no difference between Najib or his prime minister or even any other member of his despicable regime.
        Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, chairman Political Affairs Department of HIA said that Mujahideen’s coalition with the communists is unquestionable. The communists arc national traitors, they are responsible for the martyrdom of more than 1.5 million Afghans, and plundering die national resources and devastation of the country. Therefore, any patch up with the communists for the Mujahideen isbeyond question. The communists must have to go otherwise the current struggle will be continued till a final victory, he remarked.
 ' Engineer Hilal said that the Watan Party is a combination of Khalq and Parcham Factions which is responsible for the devastation of Afghanistan and the genocide of the
Afghans. Unless and until the party is not removed from the power corridors in Afghanistan the Barnes of war will be burning in our country.
        Commenting on the interim Govt, of Mujahideen he said that die same has lost its life and credibility. Mr. Mujaddadi could represent only his own party and he is not heading any Mujahideen interim govt. He said that it will be hi ghly unbecoming of any Jihadi leader to listen even to a coalition proposal rather than giving it a positive response.
        Prof. Abdur Rasool Sayyaf in his comments over the Pankin
proposal has said that we reject all external interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and we would never compromise on our freedom and independence which we are going to achieve after historical sacrifices.
October, 12:
                                             Weak elements might prefer “National
                                          reconciliation*5 over Jitigd: Hekmatvar
        Peshawar:      Engineer
Gulbaddin Hckmatyar, Leader of Hczb-e-Islami Afghanistan has said that the fate of those who are bidding
                             '                                       the Mujahideen, October (November, 1991 wUmm-xPage 13
to join the communist regime under the pretext of forming a coalition govt, with Najib, Khaliqyar or any other member of the ruling clique, will not be different from that of Najib and his group. Mujahideen will consider this treacherous act as surrender to the so-called policy of national reconciliation of Najib.
             -= if
        Eng. Hekmatyar said that such elements must know that they would he isolated from the ranks of the nation 1 ike some of thei r collegues who joined the bandwagon of Najib and earned the curses of the Afghan Muslim nation.
        ‘These people might succeed in getting their names published in bold letters in the newspapers by opposing Jihad as they have no role in Jihad. However, this will not enable them to bring * peace in Afghanistan.” He remarked.
        He said that this is a fact that imperialist powers do not want peace in Afghanistan. They either want a government of their choice or want to turn Afghanistan ipo another ; Lebanon. He called upon the neighbouring countries Jo refrain from collusions with the imperialists, by adding, that a strong elected
Islamic govt, in Afghanistan will be for the good of our neighbours and for peace and stability of the region.
Sept, 23:
14 military posts destroyed
       Fourteen security posts of the Kabul regime have been smashed in two different offensives of the Mujahideen in Paghman District of Kabul Province. According to details Mujahideen launched an offensive on the 3rd battalion of the Kabul army in the Dilsoz area of Paghman District and destroyed eight security posts and set on fire eight tanks and killed or injured a number of regime soldiers.
       In total Mujahideen claimed to have killed 90 regime soldiers and officers and also captured tens of different heavy and light weapons. Four Mujahideen embraced martyrdom in these operations.
October, 7:
■ Kabul T. V starts covering
  Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi
            -1
       Following an agreement
between the two superpowers for -------------1-----------------
replacing the incumbent communist regime president, Najib by Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi, the so-called president of the Pashawar based Afghan Interim Govt., Kabul Television has started broadcasting his statements in its telecasts.
        In its central telecast, on the evening of Oct. 6, the Kabul T.V. quoted him as saying “Hazrat Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi, the elderly Afghan leader has said that the Mujahideen attacks on the regime installations are un-Islamic and aganist the national unity.”
        The Kabul administration being frustrated by Mujahideen’s current pressure over Gardez and Kabul itself made much hue and cry against Mujahideen in its telecast besides levelling false allegations against Pakistan. Though the communist regime in Kabul, with the help of superpowers, tries to establish a broad-based government with some mode rater parties based in Peshawar but the Mujahideen will never come on a single table with the despicable regime or Ex-king Zahir Shah. Such political maneuvers are against the spirit of Jihad and the principled and just stand of the Mujahideen. «»

*The Mujahideen, October /November, 1991
: Page 14

          I Necessity of Change
          Crime is a chain of endless manifestations. But our social circumstances have made more converts in recent years than crime itself could muster in many centuries. The world would not have been infested by such large multitudes of culprits if the socio-political order had long been corrected. Nobody wants to be bom outside wedlock, and all sane men will prefer sleeping outside the goal. Every man wants peace but men at the top today are too selfish. If people below could see the gravity of the crimes perpetrated by those above, humanity would have demanded a change since a long time.
          To prevent such a drastic transformation and a disastrous outcome, our so-called superpowers devise a diversionary artifice of misrepresenting the issues at stake. Men fightiflg for truth are labelled terrorists. Revolutionaries are called renegades, and dedication is named fanaticism. Black is shown as white. Green exhibited as red and falsehood becomes the basis of propaganda. Thus many become compounded. Majority thinks it is the situation that must change itself and not man bettering his lot. Allah Says:-
          “They appointfor Allah rivals to mislead (others) from His path. Say, gratify (Yourselves) for a while, your return is to the fire.” (Ibrahim: 14:30)
                                                                                                                                           * *'
          But whatever we say, the state of our world is a reality for all to see. With many non-believers around,the world is almost gone, while the Hereafter is.yet to be lost. To gain in the coming life, the present world must be used. Man must be rehabilitated here, in this life to plan and work for his Hereafter. Islam does not say get the first ahd miss the other, nor vice-versa.but teaches that both worlds are created for the purpose of man alone. Why should man deny himself what none will use beside him?
                                                                      /
          Therefore, the situation must be changed for the better. This act of transforming the world is, as human beings, a right, as Muslims a duty and as Mujahids, a demonstration of total servitude to Allah, the Most High.
           For man to live pleasantly on this globe and happily in the Hereafter he has some duties to perform. towards himself, society and universe. Admission of having such responsibilities is fundamental in the Universal Islamic Message. To shirk obligations, deny liabilities and put-off incumbent sociological demands is incompatible with Islamic teachings. Allah the Glorious says:-
           uBut he does not accept (the truth), Nor observes (devotional) prayers. Rather he rejects (all obligations) and glides away (on earth heedlessly), Thereafter proceeds to his people insolently. Woe on you (O, men) and woe. Woe betide you and more. Does man think he’s to be left alone (Without any responsibility whatsoever)? was he not a drop of liquid from a sperm discharged. Later became a suspended congealed matter. From which He created and fashioned (him) Then made out pairs -males and females .. is that (Creator) not capable of resuscitating the dead” (Al-Qiyamah 75: 31-40).
           This is of course a divine description of gross human irresponsibility. Spiritually he refuses to attest to truth and rationally he rejects all obligations. He abhors salat, refuses Zakat and neglects other compulsory duties. In the end, he goes about stupidly and arrogantly. Boasting of mundane achievements and extoling human materialistic potentialities. While very much forgetful of natural limitations and his own biological origin. Woe on such and many of that.
     M
           Is there any effect without a cause? Would man too have himself becoming a being, without a concerted discharge? The world is founded on responsibilities. Why is man so dishonest and pretensions? Why is he so unreliable and unwilling to reform? Man must better his scociety with his own hands. Muslims should stand up to their obligation of stabilizing the globe and purging it of profanity and oppression. And it is the duty of Mujahids through out the world to work towards establishment of the Divine Will and meeting Him as martyrs. This should ( be our supreme goal in life. Are we prepared to lay the foundation of a just World for our children to complete th£ structure of a new global order in Sha Allah.?! m Please contemplate.
WM
 Hekmatyar talks to Soviet Journalist
         The Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbadin Hekmatyar, told a Soviet journalist that Mujahideen after the establishment of their government in Afghanistan will demand war reparations from the Soviet Union.
         Hekmatyar said that he would not demand punishment for the Soviet army officers for being involved in crimes during thdr stay in Afghanistan. However, he added that the Soviet people themselves were demanding the trial of such army officers. The Soviet journalist asked Hekmatyar if he would give the names of such officers of the Red Army, the Afghan leader advised the Soviet Union to obtain the list from its KGB.
         The interview recently took place at the stronghold of Hekmatyar in Paktia (Afghanistan). The Soviet journalist identified himself as the correspondent of the Young Pravda.
         The ‘journalist’, accompanied by another Soviet national, was taken to Afghanistan. The Hizb sources believe that the interviewer was sent to Hekmatyar, in the garb of a journalist.
          Moscow must look after its own collapsing house. It should be least interested in our problems. I don’t know why the diversity of parties is considered to be a sign of democracy and political polarization elsewhere but in case of Afghanistan they express misgivings and look at it as a sign of hostility.
          If Afghans could liberate their country from the superpower, they will be able to put their house in order very easily. The problem in our country is not diversity but interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan mostly by Moscow and Washington.
 Is it true that you do not exchange the POWs because you want to extort political concessions from Moscow?
          No, absolutely not We are for total exchange in the context of the package of settlement:
 Do you pelieve that Afghanistan will be a friendly country 7n future?
          Why not, provided the USSR stops interference in our affairs. It must respect our territorial integrity and national sovereignty.
 Will you demand war reparations from the Soviet Union?
Following are the questions and
answers of the interview; '
                       / .■ j
Moscow is afraid that the Afghan Mujahideen will start fighting one another as soonns they enter Kabul.
  k
 b         yes,ofcourse,thatisourright
 But will it be possible to demand war reparations amtalso see the prospect of friendship in future?
                t
         I don’t think that these are interlinked. You just visit Afghanistan yourself and see the extent of devastation of today alone by the weapons sent by your government to Afghanistan. When you see the extent of damages, you will agree with our demand for war reparations. I must tell you that this is the right of the Afghan people.
 How much reparations will you demand?
         It will be possible to determine this only after a complete survey.
 I am really pleased that you receive me inside Afghanistan and am gratefulfor giving me your precious time as I understand that you are a busy man.
         You are most welcome. You are no longer in an occupied and subjugated Afghanistan. You and I now breath in a free Afghanistan where you might be hearing the boom and roar of planes and artillery but you will not see any sign of foreign control or influence.
 May I know where exactly this particular area is located in Afghanistan?
         This is Paktia province. It used to be a such green province* and a beautiful summer resort. The tall mountains used to be covered with dense pine and oak tree plantation which have been turned into ashes during the decade-long war imposed by the USSR on our brave and peaceful nation.
 Don ’tyou think that the war must now come to an end and reconciliation start?
          We believe that we need peace more than anybody else. A proverb in our language says that the place feels the warmth of heat upon which the fire is burning. We are fighting to extinguish the flames of a war which has been lit and fanned by your country. We arc fighting to bring peace. A peace which is just, honourable and durable.
          You know the war in Afghanistan had two basic reasons: one was the Red Army and the second was an imposed regime which, in our view and in the eyes of the outer world, was the extension of the occupation forces. One cause is gone while the other remains in full force. In such circumstances, we have no option but to fight and that is why the war has been intensified. It is ranging around Kabul, Jalalabad, Gardez, Laghman, Logar, Qandahar, Maidan and Ghazni. The Kabul regime is very weak. It is still standing on Soviet crutches and without them it will fall very soon.
                              t
 Do you think you can capture Kabul by force? If so, when?
          We believe the Kabul regime
 will fall any moment. Because on the one hand well-organised and coordinated attacks have been mounted against it and on the other it is suffering from internal rifts and contradictions coupled with miserablecconomicconditions. All these factors put together will bring the regime to its knees.
 Which battles have you personally participated in and where?
         I have taken part in many battles from Kunar valley to the deserts of Qa'ndhar, Moreover, I have taken part in battles in Nangarhar, laghman, Paktia, Logar, Maidan and Parwan. I have been going to these areas during even the bloodiest,of fighting. In each of these provinces, most of which are located around Kabul, two major Soviet offensive used to take place every year involving 2 divisions of troops. The result was devastation and ruin. I will never be able to live down those memories.
 What changes ha veyou observed in the So viet policy towards Afghanistan after Gorbachev took over and particularly after the failed coup in USSR?
         Soon after Gorbachev’s takeover, we attached a lot of hopes to changes in Afghanistan. But all that
 proved to be a writing on the sand. Nothing was changed. The amount of military aid to the beleaguered Kabul regime and subsequently an escalation of war took place. We never found out that Gorbachev after giving so much in concession to the West, almost to a humiliating degree, letting loose the Eastern bloc, allowing the collapse of the Berlin Wall and allowing the three Baltic republics to secede, was and is still reluctant to recognize the right of self-determination of the Afghan people. After the failed coup we thought the saner elements like Mr. Yeltsin would prevail over the jingoist elements and stop all military aid to Najib but again nothing significant happened.
 Moscow is likely to cut off military aid to Kabul from next January. Do you think this would really tip the balance in anyone's favour?
          There is no doubt that the only thing which keeps the regime resuscitating is the unhampered Soviet military support to the regime without which it will not unable to survive. The important thing is if the Soviets really wish to have arms cut off to both sides it should discuss the negative symmetry. If Moscow agrees to this suggestion we on our part can pledge to offer facility in
t
The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
Page 17
 this regard. No agreement in this regard between Washington and Moscow will have any legitimacy. Similarly, any other Russo-American agreements on Afghanistan will not be binding on the Mujahideen since none of them represents the Afghan nation in such talks.
 Would that not make it difficult for the Mujahideen if USA cuts off military aid?
        We would be very happy if the USA stops interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. We expect just the same from Moscow.
 But I know you receive a lot of aid. If thatis stopped where would you acquire the arms from?
        We will get our arms from you-All our *71ns are of Russian make.
 What about Stingers?
        We have no Stingers. We have only been using weapons which bear USSR markings! You go and see for yourself if all those tanks are Russian or American? Our Mujahideen areall armed with Kalashinkovs, Kalakovs and other types 6Jf Russian weapons.
    •
 Would it not be easier for you to deal with Yeltsin rather than Gorbachev?
        I believe all the changes in Sovietattitude towards Afghanistan have been inspired by Mr. Yeltsin. He was in favour of arms cut-off to the regime for a long time. I remember when his foreign minister once called Najib the Berya (chief of KGB in Stalin’s time) the same nickname was given to Najib by Krutchkov, the head of Gorbachev’s KGB. Anyway, if Mr. Yeltsin or anybody else wants to see Afghanistan in peace, they must order the stoppage of all kinds of aid to the rejected regime of Najib.
                      Y ■ j
 What changes do you see in the policies of Gorbachev and Yeltsin. Are thejur politics different from each other?
         Yes, their policies are different and there are many reasons for that but in my view the main reason is that Gorbachev has been surrounded by the mostconservativeelementsof the KGB, army and the communist party. Yeltsin has not grown up in a similar environment This has put him in a good stead to take action for the solution of the Afghan problem.
 A Mujahideen delegation is about to visit Moscow. Why are you against this visit?
         This has been consistendy an important part of our policy that the Mujahideen should talk to the Russians as the second direct party to the Afghan problem. In line with this policy, we have, several times, held direct talks v with them. We have been fiercely against Russo-American talks on Afghanistan as none of them represents the Afghan masses.
         We want direct dialogue with Moscow but we want it to come out sincerely for talks with the Mujahideen. Moscow may solve her problem with Washington by talking to the Americans but their (Moscow’s) problems with the Afghan people remain. Since the Russians are giving no impression of their sincerity in these talks, we wouldbe absent ourselves from the firststage. We will wait and see if the Soviets come around and change their present attitude. We will participate in the next rounds, if any. We believe in substantive talks and will never take pai*in a PR dialogue.
 What do you mean by ‘sincerity*?
         You know the Sovietare talking to Washington on substantive matters while we think the solid and durable peace can only be achieved by talking to the Mujahideen. The Soviets must realise that Mujahideen are ncc the Contras.
 What do you expect from the Moscow talks?
               j
         Nothing at all. If we were to expect any thing I would have sent my ---------------?--------------------
 representative to Moscow, at least We believe that the Russians, by inviting the Mujahideen to Moscow at this time, just want to appease the Soviet nation that after all the government in Moscow is concerned about its POWs on whom they would try to focus during the talks in Moscow. The issue of POWs in our view is a very small one compared to the other taming issues still unresolved. This is the reason why we suspect that the Russians are not sincere to find a lasting solution to the problems confronting our two nations. The Soviet are unrealistically pressing for the release of their 311 POWs whom they declared MIA but we have about 35, 000 such Afghans about whom no one knows whether they have been killed or being kept in prison in Kabul or Siberia.
 How many Soviet POWs does yourparty hold?
         A good number of them.
 When will you release them?
         They are our guests. We do not intend to keep them for good. This matter in fact depends on the attitude of the Soviet government The sooner they solve the problem, the sooner will the boys go home. The Soviets must stop all assistance to the Kabul regime and stop the bloodshed. The key to peace lies with them. Without this they should never ask for the release of the POWs.
         Do you look after them well?
 I intended to show one of them to you now to prove that we look after them well. But due to shortage of time we could not do so.
 Oh, God. Is none of them here?
         Not here, no.
                              %
 As I know some of them are still fighting along with your forces against the Kabul regime.
         Yes, many of them. They have become very skillful Mujahideen. I will
 tell you that many of these boys are going to be the heroes of our history whose feats are going to be written in golden words.
 But, what would be the fate of those who want to return?
         This issue would be 'solved in the context of a package settlement We will see to it that those who want to go will go. Those who want to stay back are welcome to do that. We would never exchange them against their will.
 Are they all from the Muslim republics or are there some Russians as well among them?
         They are all from the Soviet
 Union.
 You mean there are some Russians in them?
         I said they are from the USSR. You can interpret it the way you like.
 What do you thinkabout the fate of the Kabul government. You reject any coalition with the members of the government Is that so?
 It is exactly so. We are not prepared for a coalition with the regime elements at any cost.
 But Mujaddadi has said we will join a coalition government with KhaUqyar?
         If he can afford to do so, he should do it.
 Will you fight against that coalition?
       . It is out of the question for him (Mujaddadi) to take the risk of isolation. If he does it, he will go just as an individual. I can tell you with certitude that a coalition is not possible in our country.                  /    j
         No Mqjahid will everimagine , to sit across on£ table with thos^criminals whosb hands are stained with the blood
     M
W8: The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 Wm
 of nearly 1.5 million martyrs. Those who think about coalition will achieve nothing but shame.
          The only solution is thatNajib’s regime should be removed and replaced by a provisional government acceptable to the Mujahideen. This provisional government should not have elements of the communist regime and supporters of the ex-king.
          Then cease-fire be announced and elections be held. Anybody who is in favour of a just and durable solution,this is the only way. Those running after coalition and trying to carve out a place for the communist elements in the future polity are mistaken.
 * They do not know the reality and dynamics of our society. Moscow knows it is the only way out but because of the insistence of Washington it cannot come out openly in favour of this solution. Washington knows that since her agents are the weakest elements and they cannot survive without a coalition with the communists, that is why she encourages her agents to cry for a coalition.
 Would you not accept Zahir Shah either?
          No, not at all. We will not tolerate people like Zahir Shah for one single moment. He is in our view the root cause of (he present Afghan tragedy. There is ho question^ accepting the symbols of aristocracy and feudalism in the present revolutionary situation of ' Afghanistan.
          Jhe question is right of self-determination to the Afghan people. They should be able to choose their future government in accordance with their aspirations. The people of Afghanistan should be given the right to elect and determine the type of government they want. As we have not accepted the government formed by outsiders in the past. We will never accept such governments in future as
-------------------j--------------------
  well.
  Do you want to establish an Islamic Democratic Republic of Afghanistan?
           We are Muslim nation. What I have been insisting on and will continue to insist is the right of self-determination for my people and to elect an Islamic government.
  How will you treat the communists after taking over power? Will you kiU'them or expel them from the country?
           We have announced a general amnesty for all those who join us, repent, their past and renounce hostility towards Islam and the people. We have proved our intentions. We have granted amnesty to the defence minister of the regime and this will be applicable even to Najib if he wants to prove his sincerity.
  How will he do? Just by professing sincerity?
           No, words alone are not sufficient. He must at least go to the extent of Shanawaz Tanai or he must step down, stop killing the Afghan people and repent his past crimes.
  Moscow believes that participation of people like Khaliqyar in the coalition will be an element of stability.
                                                                 How?
           They think if the Mujahideen take Kabul by force it would lead to a bloodshed.
           It is true, if the Mujahideen take it by force anything might happen but they need not be afraid of a bloodbath in case they talk it out with the Mujahideen and not the Americans.
                                  %
  Will you punish the people like ordinary soldiers, civil servants and inteflectuals?
           No, the general amnesty is applicable to all those who repent their past and join the nation. We have proved that we never punish the defectors. ■
mmm TheUuiaUJeen.OctoberlNovmber.1991
                                                                                                              Pate 19 Wj8BHit
                                                                                                                  * JWCWWWWOPWW
 C^Utt FaqUAhtMuT)
         Socialism and Communism are thesystems against human nature, common sense and the basic teachings of all the religions in the world. The base upon which communism was built represented the denial of Allah Almighty, hatred and stifling of individual freedoms. The first communist revolution in Russia in 1917 was a story of untold cruelty surpassing ^oppression committed by Czars.
         From 1917 to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan many nations were made victim of the communist rule. For this purpose their best weapons remained savagery and fraud. With these two weapons they engulfed the whole of Central Asia, a great centre of Muslim civilization in the past Today we know Central Asia by the names of the republics of Uzbakistan,Tajikistan, Khazakistan, Azerbaijan, Kirgizia and Tuikmenia. -This fertile land of learning and knowledge produced a number of great personalities like Hazrat Abdullah Bin Mubarak, Imam Bukhari, Imam Termizi, Abdul Mansoor Mataridi, Abu Nasar Faryabi and Sheikh Khwaja Dahauddeen Naqshband. Even in tije 'time of the Muslim decline before the communist rule thousands of Islamic Madrasas were furiictioning. Thatjfe the reason
  that Islam could not be obliterated notwithstanding the great efforts by the communists.
                                            Communist Attitude towards the Muslims
         The Russian communists ~ pounced on the areas of Central Asia like beasts. In 1920 they took Bukhara and Khewa. Mosques were shut down. Recitation of Qur’an and offering of prayers were prohibited. The good Muslims were taken as criminals. Some of the mosques were taxed. The Muslim who attended the mosques after paying taxes were labelled as capitalists and were killed. Many were banished to Siberia. Thousands of the Central Asian Muslims were compelled to flee to Iran, Afghanistan, Turkey and Saudi Arabia.
                                              The Style of Communist Action
         In Central Asia, like Afghahistan, ..the communists accomplished theirmission of complete subjugation in three phases.
  1-  fii the first phase the poor population of Muslim masses were shown communism and socialism as the remedy of their genuine problems. They were made to believe that communism meant nothing more than eliminating the corrupt feudalists and capitalistic 1 system. They were given the assuarance that communism was not against the religion of Islam. Instead, they propagated it as a new version of Islam.
2-  In the second phase the communists penetrated the important institutions like education, journalism, literature, media and culture. The trained agents started their work without mentioning" communism. As a result a large section of people were influenced. They made friends with the rulers in the Central Asian regions. The rulers were made to take the decisions that brought the population against them.
3-  After all these actions the country was than an optimum for the communists. There was no internal danger. So the Russian communists, ignoring all their pledges and prom ises, pounded the Central Asian land with tanks and guns. Their first target was the incapable rulers. They were replaced by trained communist and atheist agents in the region. The poor masses got nothing. Religious and political freedoms were suppressed. Even a weak gesture of dissent was met with death, prison and labour camp. Tenor was the rule of the day.
                                                       Jihad in Afghanistan
         In parallel to Central Asia, was Afghanistan too. The first phase of communist penetration was started well before Zahir Shah. The second phase was completed during Zahir Shah's rule. Daud Khan was the final non-communist servant of Russia. With Daud rule the comrAunist net, work ‘beacame strong enough within the military and administration. The ground was prepared for the direct
                                              The Mujahideen, October/November, 1991 ». V  ■'■ 'is-..- " '  v Page 20          &
 f



1- 15,000 Muslims, many of them Ulcm mas, were killed during the start of his rule.
2- Many laws repugnant to Islam were enforced.
3- The property of dissident Musi ims was confiscated.
iiwwwnMwninwiwt
 communist coup d etat. Daud was no more relevant and the stage was set for Taraki, a known communist in Afghanistan. At first Russians felt no need for their massive military intervention. To them Taraki could do the job of Communalization of Afghanistan. The misdeeds of Taraki may be enumerated as:-
 Hafizullah Amin who killed Taraki. Amin was also unable to control the situation because of the Muslim uprising. So Russia found no other way but to directly invade Afghanistan on Dec 27, 1979. Amin was killed and Babrak
 in favour of the Mujahideen. They fight with the help of their faith.
         Afghan Jihad has entered its final stage. In this regard the brotherly Muslim countries of Pakistan, Iran
4- Religious programmes were stopped from radio.
 5- Islamic subjects were banned in educational institutions and instead communist dogmas were taught.
 7- Peasants, workers and women were forced to, participate in the programmes of the socialistculture’.
 8- The existence of God was publicly denied.
         Butcommunism was faced with a nation having no precedence of slavery. The Ulema were busy warning the pcoplcof the communist thrust since the rule of Zahir Shah. They had rejected the so-called cultural revolution of Zahir Shah. They were conscious of the threat and declared Jihad against the communist regime. The regime did its utmost to weaken the resistance but could not. They used napalm bombs and poisonous gas against the Mujahideen. On March 15, 1979 about20,000 Muslims were martyred in Herat. But all the terror fired back. Jihad spread to the wjiole of Afghanistan and the regime forces were unable to come out of their tanks. Russia found no other way but replaced taraki with the puppet
 Karmal, with the help of 150.000Russia forces, became the puppet president. Jihad was wide spread and Karmal failed in his communism bid of Afghanistan. Then came Najib who took KarmaFs seat. DidNajibdclivergoods?Certainly not. He alongwilh 150,000 Russian forces came to knees. The Russian troops left Afghanistan without any request by Mujahideen. Najib was left to his fate. Now he is in the process of fleeing the country.
         Afghans paid the price of 1.5 million martyred for the cause of Islam. This Jihad paved the- way for the liberation of the Muslims of Central Asia. Some of the republics have declared their independence while others are preparing to do so. In Afghanistan itself 90% of the territory has been liberated. Khost has been captured, and pther large cities are under the siege of Mujahideen. Gardcz is.imminent to fall to Mujahids. Kabul is the next target. Qandahar is encircled completely. Russia cannot supply more arms to Kabul regime. But India is taking the position of Russia. America is preparing to make supplies to India for this purpose. They arc not ready to see an Islamic government in Afghanistan. But despite all the hurdles in the way the situation in the country is
 and Saudi Arabia have a great role to play. Success of Jihad in Afghanistan is linked to the formation of the envisioned Islamic bloc stretching from Central Asia to Turkey, Iran Afghanistan, Pakistan and Kashmir. This regional Islamic bloc combined with the Middle East would be a counterweight to the anti-Islamic forces but the key is Afghanistan. Therefore the regional Muslim powers and Saudi Arabia must help their brothers in Afghanistan politically, morally and materially. No peace formula be accepted disregarding Jihadi forces. No communist, open or disguised can play a role. No foreign agent can be assigned a responsible position in the country. To accept such a proposal is the negation of 12 years of Jihad.
        As for the Central Asian republics, Muslim powers should also make contacts with the newly independent Central Asian states. They mustbehelped in all fields. Last but not least, the O.I.C which has remained dormant during the Gulf crisis, must be activated. It must not be a tool in the hands of the West but for the Muslim peoples. •

                          The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 mmmmMmmtMtimmS; Pa8e 21
Accredition of Man
              t/
                            ......
                      \J^asin
         Islam maintains that humanity has a special role to play on the globe and reality has confirmed that man is falling short of this accredition. The role man has to play is J dimensional - to Allah, to mankind and to himself. The holy Qur’an and the prophetic Sunnah contain many passages enunciating these duties, Take this as a specimen. Allah the most High declares:-
 J
         “Say, come and I will relate to you what \ your Lord has made prohibited on you (as duties). That you should associate nothing with Him But to your parents (show) goodness. Kill not Your ; children out of poverty.
             1
         "We shall provide for you and them (too). And advance not towards indecency — overtly 'or covertly—Nor kill a soul sanctified by Allah, except for a just cause.
 /
         "These (obligations), He mandated on ,you to be sensible. Likewise go not near belongings of the orphan, except with that which ' is better (in motives) until he attains full puberty. And perform your measurements and scaling with fairness none has been burdened (with / obligations)...
 4
         "Save what he can bear. And whenever ]you testify, be just even if against close relatives Similarly, the convenient of Allah (you must) fulfil. Those (things) He obliged on you to be * mindful. And this is indeed my path straight forward then follow hot.crooked roads that will surely divide you away from my path. Those - (instructions) He dcrees on you for your piety”.‘ ^(Al-An’am.6: 151-153).
 / / /
        The characteristic of the path of Allah is straight forwardness, and the peculiarity in the J ways of men is waywardness. The primordial J universal unity of mankind, is of course larger than the parochial artificial boundaries of nations.
        Humanity has a common origin and / should be allowed to live once again as a com- / posite entity. The surest way towards universal unity, is the proclaimed path of Revealed Monotheism. The best shield against continental schism, is the adoption of fundamental Islamic message.
                                                                                                                 /
        But the truth today has no platform, and \ the believers in-Allah have no say. Islam itself is oppressed so long as humanity is denied its blessings. The so called believers who only profess faith but work not accordingly are to be blamed for this because they are refusing to stand up to global challenges.
                                                                                                                 /
        Let mankind have access to the teaching of Islam and see if the world will not succumb to its message. We are today on a globe without Islam and speaking right now of Islam without a globe.
                                                                                                                 /
                                                                                                                 /
        What remains is not globalizing Islam, for this has already been settled by Islam itself - - but, how best to Islamize the globe. That is J today a near possibility in the faces of hostile garrisons of infidelity but only if we accompany faith with actions. This is the more reason why we must be conscious of our duties. The Glorious passage above is comprehensive and its like are numerous in the holy text. The message remains the same, that man has three duties in life — to his Glorious Lord, to his hostile men and to his
 heedless self.

 ✓
mmmmmmmMmmmmmmmttmmm The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 mmmmmmmmmm Page22 Wm®m
                Mohammad Ilyas “Zara” Head of the Education Committee HIA recently spoke with the reporter of "Shahadat" in Peshawar.
        rans lalion: SayedAnwar "Nasr”
     Excerpts:
 How would you describe the role of education in building the spiritual values of the members of the Society?
 In the name of Allah, the most Beneficent, the most Merciful.
         The construction of a building is similar to that of a society. If the foundation of a building is strong and the bricks which form the walls are solid and properly weaven then it will not easily collapse.
                   f
         In order to have a strong and educated society, the need to accelerate educational programmes thus arise. Allah says in this regard. “Are those who know and those who don’t equal?” However, the invasion of Soviet forces in our country further disrupted the education system there.
 What differences do you think exist between theMujahideen education system and the one before the start of Jihad?
         It was a dark age before Jihad started. The dark clouds of secularism and anti-Islamic teachings were hanging Over the horizons of education in Afghanistan, Communist ideology and secularism were taught in the schools and institutions of higher learning and Islamic teachings gradually disappeared.
                       i   '                     /
                                                 I
         Now despite all the social and political instabilities that we encounter, education under these circumstances has increased dramatically.
              r
 This year a big number of students from other Mujahideen parties have shown interest to join the HIA schools to continue their studies, why iS this?
          When the Afghan Interim Govt (AIG) was set-up, , some Mujahideen parties placed their learning institutions under the control of the said Govt for financial support. Now
 that the AIG has been dismantled, the schools face severe shortage of funds.
 The HIA thus, has opened the doors of its schools to all Afghan refugee students regardless of their party affiliation. To educate the Afghan nation is one of the top priorities of HIA,becauseour country was lagging-behind under the totalitarian regimes of the past.
 What is the total number of elementary, secondary and High schools of HIA inside and outside Afghanistan?
 1 - Elementary Schools                             -204
 2-  Secondary Schools                               -30
 3-  Lycee (High School)                             -18
 4-  Religious Schools and Darul-Hifaz
         (Schools for memorizing Al-Qur’an by heart) - 258
 •Total No. of HIA’s Schools                        -510
 What is the number of academic and administrative staff
 of the Education Committee and the Schools?
       /
         The administrative and academic staff of Elementary Schools is 1000 persons, while that of the Secondary and High Schools consists of 413 persons.
                                                     %
         The number of students studying in refugee camps in Pakistan reaches to 70630 while the number of those who are enroled in schools inside the country is 36520. Total number would be 107150 students.
 How many students are given hostels and provided transportation to enable them to continue their studies?
                                                    The Mujahideen, Ocober / November, 1991 mmttHMmmtHKtHHHSKStPage 23 mmmm
            Buses are provided for those students who are not living in hostels to transport them from their homes to schools and back. Those provided with hostel facilities in different schools are as follows:
( Story of a YoungMujahid
i
1:- Saycd Jamalludin High School - 1200 
          2:- Imam Azzam Madrasa -450   
                               \        
3:- Abdullah Ibn Abbas           - 760  
4:- Central Darul Hifaz          -680   
5:- Talimul-Qur’an               -428   
6:- Ziaul Jihad                  -383   
7:- Mazhar ul-Ulum Madrasa       - 100  
8:- Imam Bukhari Madrasa         -520   
9:- Al-Fatah Lycce               -200   
10:- Maulavi Habib Rahman Lycee  -320   
11:- Abdur Rahim “Niazi” Lycee   -240   
Total                            -5181  
 What are your financial resources and how much is your monthly expenditure on education?
 By: Rahmanullah
          It was December 1988. The annual examinations of Govt. High School MayarDistl. Dir (N.W.F.P., Pakistan), was in progress when the 9th class boys were attempting the Islamic studies paper, one of the boys attempted the question which was about the Jihad(Holy war in the way of Allah).
          This student while giving the answer of the question, fully described the various types of Jihad, its importance, meaning definition and advantages in the light of Holy Qur’aan and Sunn ah.
          As this boy was not a common School boy who just attempted his classes and played various games only but was much different from the rest of the boys. He was not only a School boy, to read and write and to play some interesting games in the playground, but was also a Muhajir and had left his homeland and migrated. He was a Mujahid who had taken practical part in the Jihad in his early childhood in the battlefield. He, however, had not embraced Shahadat (martyrdom) although he had a great desire and hope to embrace Shahadat in the way of Allah Almighty.
          He wrote a few sentences in the essay about Jihad and expressed his hearty feelings in the following words. “ I want to do Jihad in the way of Allah with the enemies of Islam and communists. I have the desire to sacrifice my life for the sakeof Allah and His message in this world."
         Our monthly expenditure is around Rs. 11,776,629 and we get this amount from Muslim countries, Islamic organizations and the Jihad sympathizers. •
Whether the agreement reached between the US and USSR to stop supplying arms to both sides in Afghanistan, from Jan. 1,1992, will gave a negative impactonyoureducational programmes?
         In fact, we welcome this decision. But this must be mentioned that the two countries have'to stops, all kinds of interferences in Afghanistan.
                                               f
         If and indeed the Soviets discontinue deliveries of arms packages to the despicable regime of Najib, Kabul govt, will surely fall to the Mujahideen soon.
         Once the Islamic govt, is established in Afghanistan, the education system wi(l be placed under the control of the govt, and the domain of education will certainly be expanded further. •,                       /                   1
          When the examination was over and the School was closed for the winter vacations, the examination result was awaited. He remembered those sentences and words which he had written in his paper. Actually he was waiting for the time when his desire which he expressed in the paper might be fulfilled for this purpose he left for Jihad with his other young friends, belonging to Islamic Jamiat Talaba Pakistan (student wing of Jamiat-i-Islami Pakistan) to Paktia province of Afghanistan. During this period the cruel Russian troops were busy in killing the innocent Muslims of Afghanistan.
   , Within a fortnight of the departure of this young Mujahid, his dream of martyrdom became true. The result of his examination was not yet announced when he became Shaheed (martyr) on the 28th day of the December, 1988 at a hilly area of Paktia province near Khost
                                                      %
          This great young poineer of Jihad was Samiullah son of Qari Abdullah, bom in the village Mirsheikh, Ali Abad, Kunduz, Afghanistan in the year 1966. He was also a pushto poet and writer. His prose and essays were very moral in nature he was very fond of learning and acquiring education. He wrote with a purpose. Although his education remained incomplete but he achieved the real goal of his life.^
M
 I
The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991                                   Page24 ■■■ <•

      Work on Islamic Encyclopaedia
                in Progress
 A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
 lj
 >T and the financial obligations were being met by
        Work is underway to produce a large 2(),()(X)-page Islamic encyclopaedia covering all aspects of Islamic history, culture and civilization. Four volumes have already been completed and the remaining 30 volumes are expected to be completed by the year 2000. The first edition will be in Turkish language and official sources said English and Arabic versions of the encyclopaedia would be brought out soon after completion of the original Turkish one.
        Official sources told IINA one thousand experts and specialists from Turkey, Arab countries, India, Pakistan and African countries were commissioned to undertake this huge work
 the Turkish Islamic Turst Board, they said. The sources furthersaid two thousand employees with Islamic background and experience in printing
and publication were employed and the project would cost millions of dollars and the authorities took up the project without expecting any material returns, they said.
       In the old quarters of the Ottoman capital Istanbul, the main complex of the encyclopaedia was set up some time back and pictures in black and white as well as colour and other reference works were provided at the complex to help the researchers.
       Official sources revealed Saudi Arabia and Egypt had expressed their willingness to undertake the work of Arabic translation. Saudi Arabia also plans to produce all the volumes of the encyclopaedia in an abridged form in one book in three languages including Arabic, English and Turkish. The Turkish venture was started in 1988.
       The Islamic encyc-lopedia published in Holland in several volumes was undertaken by Christian clergy men. It, however, contains distortions and false claims as testified by prominent scholars, Muslim or non Muslims alike.
       Several short encyclopaedia were produced by Egypt also and Egyptian academics have said they were planning to bring out an Islamic encyclopedia on a very large scale. (IINA)*
                                                 The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991              mmmmmmi                      Page 25 MMMMMM
 I
               WHY DOES IRAN WANT
        HEKMATYAR’S HEADl
       By: F. K. Abo Walid, PhD
        It is a common human trait that whenever someone stands in the way of our goal, we experience anger. The degree of this anger depends on a variety of factors including the intensity of our goals, our psychological make-up and cultural background.
        On August 29, 1991, the Iranian government showed a strange and bizarre anger reaction toward Eng. Hekmatyar, the Afghan Mujahideen leader, calling for his assassination and also stating that Eng. Hekmatyar has done more harm to the Afghans than the Soviets or the Kabul regime. This angry reaction from Iran was published in the English language daily newspaper Kavhan which is known tobeamouthpieceofMr. Rafsanjani. Such a strong reaction in Tehran raises the question of which of Iranian goals Engineer Hekmatyar may have frustrated. To answer this question it is necessary to shed some light on the background of Iran’s policy vis-a-vis the Afghan issue.
        When the Islamic Republic of Iran was formed, its stand on the Afghan issue was admirable. They firmly supported the Mujahideen, assisted the Mohajereen(’refugees), and attacked both superpowers for materialism and immorality. With the martyrdom of Shaheed Beheshti
and numerous other revolutionary clerics.the composition of Iranian policy makers changed. Nationalistic and sect-promoting elements came to power. While Iran had isolated itself from the non-Muslim world, its war with Iraq also isolated Iran from the Arab world-perhaps it was the heavy toll of this isolation that caused Iran to abandon its original principled stand. Secret ties (which are not anymore secret) were developed with Israel (to buy weapons) and with the US (the hostage deal with Reagan’s administration).
        The post-revolutionary Iranian relations with the Soviet become obvious with the letter of Imam Khomeini to Gorbachev, and since that time Iran has been on a course moving closer and closer to the Soviets.
        It appears that the revolutionary slogan of “Neither
East, nor West, Islam is the best!” has given way to a policy that serves the interests of the Iranian rulers. The current regime appears to be entrapped by the Soviets in the drama of the their dirty geopolitics.
        The Soviets are well aware of the great potential that a Mujahideen-led Islamic government in Afghanistan would have in uniting Muslims, including the awakening of Soviet Muslims. Iran also knows that a Sunni Islamic government in Afghanistan will have widespread influence and supporters among the world’s 1000 millions Muslims because the majority of the Muslims are Sunnis, thus overshadowing the Iranian sphere of influence.
        The Soviets may have reminded the Iranians that a Sunni Islamic government in Afghanistan will furthermore strengthen the demands of the Sunni in Iran to be treated fairly. Thus Iran and the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
 k
 USSR would have a common interests to weaken the Mujahideen in Afghanistan.
        After receiving assurance from the rulers of Iran that they will not interfere in the internal affairs of the Soviet Union, the Soviets have given the Iranian clerics a more free hand in contacting Muslims in the Soviet Union. This is a devious move by the Soviets because they know that by creating multiple sects among Soviet Muslims the probability of internal clashes will greatly increase among them. Those who are converted to be Shia will be less influenced by the Afghan Sunni Muslims. This is indeed the old British policy of divide-and-rule.
        The Soviets have given another “bunch of carrots” to the Iranian government in the form of various cultural and economical agreements. The combined effects of the Soviet influence on Iran and the Iranian perception that a strong Sunni government in Afghanistan is contrary to their nationalistic interests is in the opinion of this writer determining and governing the Iranian policy and behavior towards Mujahideen and Mohajcreen (refugees).
        The outline of the current Iranian policy toward Afghanistan can be traced from their behavior and statements demonstrated over the past three years:
 1-     Iran has tried hard to interfere with the unity of the Afghan Mujahideen. Towards this goal they hand-pick, and support those elements among the Shia Afghan Mujahideen who are anti-Sunni Mujahideen leaders. A go0cf example is the heavy Iranian support of Mr. Mazari, a prominent member of' Hczb-i-Wahdat..A reliable witness
g The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 gg
 has related to this writer that Mr. Mazari has repeatedly remarked that “Najib is better to us than any of the Mujahideen Sunni leaders since Najib will give us a greater share of power.
         Another example is the negative role played by Iran is the February 1989 consultative council that created the AIG (Afghan Interim Government). At that time Iran put itself forth as the spokesman for the Iranian-based Mujahideen parties and made unreasonable demands. Because of this interference, the Iranian-based Mujahideen did not join the AIG which was one of the several reasons the AIG did not succeed. Iran appears to use the Shia parties to further her designs.
 2-       In order to please the Soviets and also to further their own plan of reducing the chance of Mujahideen success, the Iranian regime has developed cordial ties with the illegal regime of Kabul. Disregarding the martyrdom of over one million Afghan by the Kabul regime and instead of following the original goal of the Islamic Revolution of Iran to help Islam and Muslims, the Iranians are systematically catching Mujahideen (mostly Sunni) in Iran and placing them in the hands of Kabul secret police across the border. So far oyer 12,000 such cases have been reported. Reliable sources have confirmed that the Iranian immigration and border authorities consult he Afghan secret police of WAD before they allow any Afghan refugeek to exit.
 3-       Great restrictions are placed on the Afghan refugees living inside Iran. They are allowed to work only in specified low status jobs and live in places that are strictly guarded. Awhile back in Zahidan, when a group of guards were ordered to
mmmmwmmmmPag*26
shoot refugees who refused to live in a prison-like place. The shooting caused the martyrdom of thirty Afghan refugees. It was because of the cruel treatment of the refugees and the Iranian anti-Mujahideen policy that many Shia leaders such as Ayatullah Mohseeni (leader of Harakat Islami Afghanistan, Khalili (of Nasr), Hashimi (of Hezbullah), Mehdavi (of Shoora-i-Ittifaque), Taqaddussi (of Pasdaran), Gebraely (of Jabha-i-Muttahid), Haidary (of Niro-i-Islami), Iftikhari (of Nahzat-
i-lslami) and several others left Iran and established their offices in Pakistan. This mistreatment of the refugees was also the principal reason that the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan reminded the Iranian government of their discriminatory and unfairpolicy toward fellow Afghan refugees and Mujahideen.
4-      The Iranians know that because of Eng. Hekmatyar’s popular base and military strength in Afghanistan he has a great potential for establishing a strong Mujahideen administration in Afghanistan. This is exactly what the Iranians do not wish for Afghanistan. The establishment of.Shoura-i-Ittelaf in Peshawar which has improved the probability of Shia-Sunni unity against any international conspiracy and which has cordial relations with Eng. Hekmatyar also stands as a hurdle in the path of Iranian goals. In summary, Iran’s policy towards the Afghan Mujahideen is to prevent them from forming a strong Islamic government in Afghanistan. To enforce this policy Iran is doing the following:
                           %
a)      Using her economic, religious and geographic (influence to cause disunity among Mujahideen.
b)      Cooperating with Najib’s regime and acting as a conduit for
the Soviet policy in Afghanistan.
c)      Weakening            those
Mujahideen leaders that are effective in standing in the way of Iran’s Afghan policy implementation and supporting those “Mujahideen” elements that Iran can use as the tools.                  *
        With this background the reader can now see in better perspective why Iran showed such an angry reaction towards Eng. Hekmatyar’s conditions for participating in the trilateral talks in * Tehran. The H.I.A set the following conditions for its participation in the second trilateral talks:
i-      The Jihad organizations should discuss the achievements of the first trilateral talks held in Islamabad and reach a consensus on a plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem before participation in the Tehran conference. /
ii-     All the effective Jihad organizations including Shoora-i-Ittelaf should be invited to the conference and the extra-ordinary importance being given to some of the parties Should be stoped forthwith.
iii-    The major Mujahideen organizations should agree upon the delegations participating in the conference and, through mutual • understanding, a person should be named as head of the delegation.
        Since Iran did not accept the condition, HIA did not participate in the talks. It should be mentioned that HIA participated in the firsttrilateral talks in Islamabad, and learned that the Iranian delegation was insisting that the talk's be called four-sided (Pakistan, Iran and Iran-based
    At
 ^ The Mujahideen, October I November, 1991 ■
 Mujahideen and Pakistan-based Mujahideen). This insistence of the Iranians had disappointed Sayyaf s representative which resulted in their boycotting the meeting. This attitude of the Iranians to divide rather than to unite the Afghan had no doubt left a negative impression on all participating Mujahideen including HIA and therefore reducing the chance that all Mujahideen would participate. Four Mujahideen parties Ittihadi Islami, HIA (of Khalis), Shoora-i-Ittelaf and HIA boycotted the Tehran meeting.
        The reasons Iran singled out Eng. Hckmatyar for a verbal assault rather than the other party leaders that boycotted are that:
 i)     Eng. Hekmatyar is perceived as a real hurdle in the way of Iran achieving her goal in the region.
 ii)    Iran scores points with the Soviet and the Americans both of whom are against this Mujahid leader.
 iii)   Iran hopes to send a message to those Afghans who are waiting for the Afghan imbroglio to be solved that Eng. Hekmatyar should be blamed if the trilateral talks do not produce much results.
        ' “ ,«
        The words selected to assault Engineer Hekmatyar (Hekmatyar harmed Afghan more than'the Soviet) refleet the function of an angry and desperate mind rather than logical thinking. The whole vyorld knows that it was the Soviet bombing for ten years which killed 1.5 million people and ruined 70% 6f the villages. How could Engineer Hekmatyar who possesses not even a single bomber do more damage than the Soviets?
                                                                1
mmmmmmmmmpage 27
       When contrasted with the friendly overtures of Mr. Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, toward Mr. Qutbaddin Helal the chief of the political Department of HIA during the first trilateral talks, such a strong statement by the Iranian government ordering in fact the killing of a Mujahid leader shows a childish reaction. When HIA participated with Iran in the talks, Mr. Velayati repeatedly told Mr. Helal that he wished to see “Br. Hekmatyar and greet him”. But when the HIA boycotts the talks in Tehran, like the bully in a child’s game, Iran says, “If you don’t do what I say I will knock you down.”
       To give the benefit of doubt one can hope that the statement in Kavhan was a terrible blunder made by a few individuals and that it does not reflect the collective policy of the whole government.
       It is hoped that the noble nation of Iran which has numerous learned scholars able to see the real issues will firmly bring to the attention of their government this unfortunate blunder and request that an apology be immediately sent to Mr. Hekmatyar.
         It is also hoped that the people of Iran should alsonow examine the intentions behind such propaganda against a Mujahid leader whose cause the people of Iran have supported for a whole decade. Perhaps through this kind of examination the people of Iran can also check their government to keep it on the right path and to prevent it from becoming a tool which serves the interests of the superpowers. The Islamic Republic of Iran jn the true sense of the word will become stronger when it has another brotherly Islamic of Afghanistan by its side. •
        ^flbnAbayomi
         Deep reflections on Afghan Jihad, have acceptedly, presented their own novel and creative expositions about man, faith, politics and collective aspirations. But all in in all, they primarily serve today as new and cogent confirmations of the perpetual struggle between Western rhetorical democracy and existing international diplomacy.
         Since the winter of 1990, which also happened to be the thirteenth year of Muslim popular uprising and the eleventh year of a real armed and organized party resistance against Soviet invaders from abroad and their puppet Marxist dictators at home, Afghanistan has steadily become another victim of capitalist encroachment.
         It took the bulk sector of the Mujahideen some sixty months after the notorious Geneva accord between the two Superpowers under the direct supervision or rather the insidious initiation of the UNO to realize that global Zionism which was originally represented in the country by the Red Army had dramatically changed its language of oppression from military invasion to political incapacitation.
         Ten years ago, every body entrusted the Afghan Muslim Revolutionaries with the task of doing what was apparently then an impossibility. The calculation of the capitalist world was to tic the Islamic militancy down in Hindokush by giving it the arms and ammunitions to face the most brutal dictatorship on earth. The communist Soviet had but more than one other attributes; in that it had equal if not exceeding* militant inclination
    k
 which had also been proved savage in post second World War political history.
           What the West would have gained if such a “bog-down” strategy were successful would have been muliple-fold. One, it would have won the sympathy of a large cross-section of the Muslim world by posing as a friend. Two, it would have prevented a resurgence of Islamic militancy in other parts of the world, since majority of the Muslim fighters might have been trapped in a probable stalemate or even eliminated if the Red Army gained the upper hand. Three, The financial resources of the so-called Muslim fundamentalists, which were used to advance Islamic courses all around the globe would be automatically directed to, and recircled in Afghanistan.
 second-hand if not third class industrial equipments from the West. Then comes the exaggerated threat of Communist hegemony. Developing nations are told to run helter-skelter so as to protect themselves. This will be fully accomplished by using all their oil revenues. In the end the Islamic necessity of helping brothers in Afghanistan and other ideological-hot spots crops up which is also fulfilled by providing for the refugees and aiding the fighters. Eventually, the money, love affection and thanks are schemed to find their ways back to the West.
          That was the Zionist empire of illusions. It was constructed on false premises that Communism would last longer to warrant the continuation of Marxist over blown threat, that Western
          The simple formular here would just be “sell oil” from the Middle East and, get paid through Western Banks. Go and borrow money later from international financial houses in Geneva, London, Washington or New York. The so far borrowed h,uge amount is used in servicing previous interests on old debts also as payments for war machines and
 stooges in Muslim countries would al ways com mand the conf dence of their nations, and that the Red Army could never be defeated in Afghanistan not by the “unruly tribal guerrillas”... Western dream was endless. It was a constellation of misguided imaginations that were formed from confused geo-political analyses and crystalized in the old glories
 of Zionist imperialism and capital hegemony.
         It was not the first time nor would it be the last, when our so-called defenders of human rights would engross themselves in a world of fantasies and commit all their energies to fruitless battle with reality. Like a fast melting lake of ice under the scorching heat of a burning sun, Western hopes evaporated into the thin air of permanent uncertainty. The various soico-political calculations crashed head-long with the immutable edifice of human revolutionary determination .which is prepared to free itself from the shackles of injustice and break the numerous fences of denial constructed around it in preventing fundamental changes on the globe.
         The Mujahideen have of course learnt their own lessons. Drawing heavily from the unreliability of past friends and foes alike, Muslim revolutionaries a year ago decided to proceed as a united front, which brought Khost as its first fruit. Two nights ago when the battle around Gardez was just starting, Islamic forces captured twenty six postsand more from the Marxist forces. By the end of the third day, the Mujahideen had already penetrated the suburbs. The fall of Gardez seems today highly imminent. No communist reinforcement could relieve the city except through Logar which is also controled by the Mujahideen. The geo-political expectations of the West that Afghan crisis would pay them are nowhere materializing.
         The only alternative is to stop the military advancement of the Muslim revolutionaries through increased military assistance to Marxist regime in Kabul— though that would amount to administering anaesthetic drugs to a clinically dead patient — because any weapons and ammunition sent to the besieged Gardez would eventually fall in to Mujahideen hands. This therefore becomes a double calamity. In apprehending such situations Zionist manupulators from all comers of the globe are putting in their last’breath to direct public attention from the on-going
 M
                                                                                                                     The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 3
                                                                                                                                   Page 29
 armed conflict in Afghanistan to a series of barren political initiatives.
          To realize this, UN appears to have been appointed to play the major role. Iran and Saudi Arabia are chosen to actas mid wives for a proposed republic of Afghanistan that must have a remote control in Washington. Tehran seemed to have fully accepted her own roles. Various Shia Mujahideen parties based in Iran have been secretly guaranteed a protected status regardless of the outcome of popular elections. This would pay Iran since what she wants is a future Afghanistan that could at least stand with her in the leadership crisis between Tehran and Jeddah. This is also an illusion, since both Iran and Saudi Arabia failed to play a decisive role in the last Gulf-crisis during which they unconsciously frustrate away many of their old sympathizers and made their die-hard supporters to be as confused as ever. Islamabad also appeared to have been pressurized by unknown forces to give UNO peace initiatives the first priority. To be honest anything short of a convincing Mujahideen’s victory in Afghanistan would never pay Pakistan.
alleged constant transmission of imported arms from the seaport in Karachi to refugees camps in Peshawar, has been attributed to be the major cause behind terrorist operations through out the country. But Afghan exiles on the other side of the border are poor familes of the martyred Mujahideen. They are widows, orphans and the wounded who need not weapons but secured domiciles.
         These different reasons even if existing are totally not free from illusions. As an illustration the tribal areas in Pakistan manufacture their guns and the presence of Mujahideen and Muhajireen in Peshawar and other major cities has contributed greatly to the industrial and commercial development of these localities. The financial aids and grants suspended from both Muslim fighters and Pakistani government were very much beneficial in that all revolutionary parties concerned are now self reliant. That was what it used to be in the past. Finally the creation of a true Islamic government that represents a genuine majority of Afghan nation is one of the best assets Islamabad could have in a region full of hostile neighbors.
         People may argue extensively in the press and speak disgruntly in seminars and conferences that Afghan crisis is now staying longer than expected and that the influx of refugees is becoming an economic liability on Pakistan, since all financial assistances are now virtually cut-off. Similarly, the
          Involvement of neighbouring Muslim countries by America ih her strategy is a ploy to give the impression of an international consensus especially since the UNO too is firmly committed. This is the core of American diplomatic terrorism whereby, apparently innocent sovereign states are intimidated by
                                                                                                                   §The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 §
\ Page 30
 pollute their thoughts and create poisonous atmosphereof fllipancies. To think today that, by withdrawing what is
 economic strangulation or bought over by promises of financial liquidity to recant tlleirearlier principled stand so as to end up joinning the band-wagon of American political castigation of, or military intervention in other nations.
          This strategy of cajoling feable minded leaders into submission and manipulating general global opinion was first tried on Iran. It worked exceedingly. Later Baghdad became the next victim even if she was the greatest beneficiary when implemented on her neighbour. The next target of this international intimidation appears to be Afghanistan, and to be more explicit the so-called, fundamental militant parties among the Mujahideen.
          Theoperation always starts first by repeatedly emptying tales of lies and falacious impossibilities into the heads of most policy makers. Then the process of isolation follows by a so-called popular consensus or strategic alliance as they want people to call it Later UNO is made to give the whole conspiracy a stamp of legality by passing loop-sided resolutions through the security council and finally America acts according to her own will and programmes but now finely concealed under false international backing and penal codes.
          Such diplomacy could be effective in fighting an existing government that seeks recognition, trade and loans from the West and never against a zealous militant nation,that is still in its revolutionary days and advancing daily towards explicit goals. Even before the Western press blew the trumpet of Afghan crisis, the , revolutionized people themselves were on the verge of over-running the capital.
 It was their faith in their LordMost High and determination never to be brutalize
 or maginalize for ever by a despot----
 be him local or foreign,----- that gave
 them these initial victory. W^hat Western grants, propaganda and soyoalled anticommunist programmes did was infact not toadcelerate the already commenced and independent victorious march of the Mujahideen but to retard their progress.
 essentialy a liability to the Mujahideen from them would suddenly help Western imperialistic machinations in the region, is so to say, the peak of self-mockery and collective deception. It is a fact that confirms the inability of most policy makers in Washington to abandon their old illusive hypotheses that Afghan Jihad can be derailed or defeated.
          Logically, assuming the present
 Western peace-initiatives survive-----
 though very much unlikely — amidst the blowing thunderstorm of communist defeat on the battle field and Mujahideen advances at every day break, we may inquire here that which socio-political set up have these foreign intruders got that could stabilize the country. For one, "majority of Afghans share a common belief in Islam. All they are fighting for is an Islamic republic which must be an outcome of popular participation. An imposed electoral results by the UN or any other quarters would leave this lofty objective unfufilled, perpetuating thereby the bloody armed struggle against who ever replaces Najib.
          Similarly, the military commandants, look upon themselves and their political leaders in Peshawar as strong factors in forcing both the West and its allies among the so-called Islamic states into negotiation. Would these
 people-----that is the victorious Muslim
 fighters,------ - fold their hands and
 allow the American jfo plunge the whole nation into another bottomless valley of violence and disorder?
     / Assuming, the military commanders agree to co-operate with the Americans or the UN or with who ever poses as the spokesperson of Zionist imperialism—though very unlikely too —what would be the historical position and the ideological importance of the martyred Mujahideen in a new Afghanistan headed by another stooge of the imperialist? For which purpose then has the war continued for a decade and half starting from the first communist
 bloody revolution in the country? What is going to be the stand of the out-lawed so-called Islamic fundamentalists, who still control a large followership among the citizenry?
          From the above endless suppositions and well defined but perturbing inquiries, one could see vividly that America is living in a complex world of delusion that is far removed from reality. Those political leaders that are currently playing the role of servicing Western programmes, personally see no better alternatives than to look up to America fra survival. The reason is that most of than are mere political figures elevated by Western propaganda machine without broad and solid popular following among Afghans they are claiming to represent These Western made politicians, therefore see neither any role fra themselves nor their scanty groups of advisers if Afghan crisis is settled by unseating Najib by force.
          Similarly, these brainwashed figures have no substantial military force of their own that could in the least partake in Mujahideen’s armed victory or at least protect themselves from possible armed reprisals from fellow country mot for dancing to American tune too openly and too long. Hence their anti-Military solution. Unfortunately fra the West, their reliance is still on these unpopular personalties anditmight be late to correct this anomaly.
          If America feels that by dividing Afghans, they can rule them, this will amount to another fantasy. What they have forgotten is that every successful general revolution is a continuous process through which the society is totally purified from all relics of oppression. If the imperialist block is finding it difficult today to stop Islamic militant struggle in Afghanistan when the Mujahideen still do not control the official rein of authority, how would it ^ be possible to stop them tomorrow when K Allah would have awarded them total control over the country and by then those internal and external enemies must have been fully identified? •
i, October / November, 1991 mmmmimmimmmmmmsm Page 31
r

         Qazi Hussain Ahmad preditcs end of US power
        Jamaat-e-Islami N.W.F.P. (Pakistan) arranged a high public meeting at Peshawar busy Khyber Bazar in Connection with the 50th anniversary celebrations on Oct. 24, 1991.
        The meeting was addressed by the top leadership of the Jamaat-e-Islami including its Amir Qazi Ahmad the meeting also passed several resolutions concerning Kashmir, Afghanistan, Palestine and other burning issues.
        Addressing the meeting Amir of the Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan Qazi Hussain Ahmad condemned the United States of American
 and its new world order and said that soon the world would see the end of US hegemony. He predicted that US power might end within the next 15 to 20 years. Like the Soviet Union,the US would also meet its natural end. He predicted a bright future for the Muslim countries of the world.
        Referring to the recent changes in the Soviet Union, he said that all this happened due to the historic struggle waged by the Afghan Mujahideen. He stressed the need for unity among different groups of Mujahideen in his 40 minute speech, he critcised the Pakhtoon nationalists and condemned their statements regarding Afghanistan. He said that time had proved that they were wrong and now they were changing their stand..
                                                 e'
                Amir Jamaat-e-Islalmi Qazi Hussian Ahmad addressing a big public meeting at Khyber Bazar in Pashawar on the
                                               occaion of golden jubilee of Jamati-Islami Pakistan
Sl------------1___________________________________________________________;________________________________________✓
    Vs.                                                  I_________________________________________________________
  Genocide of Arakan’s Muslims
        Arakan, an independent Muslims kingdom of South-East Asia till 1784 AD, is now one of the 14 provinces of Burma. The area of present Arakan is approximately 16,000 square miles. It is bounded in the North-West by Bangladesh and on the North by the Chin Hills. The lofty Arakan Hills completely separate Arakan form mainland Burma in the East, thus forming a natural physiographic unit, It is bounded on the West by the Bay of Bengal. *
        The total population of Arakan is approximately four million. There are two major ethnic communities in Arakan. The Rohingyas, who constitute nearly 70% of the total population are believers of Islam and the Maghs (Rakhine) who constitute 25% of the total population and profess Buddhism. The Northern part of-Arakan adjoining Muslim Bengales is over-whelming! y more than 90% of the total population in the area.
                                                                                                                            *
        The term Rohingyas is derived from the word Rohingyas trace their origin to the Arab, Moors, Turks, Persians, Moghuls and Bangles and over the last 100 years have maintained their Islamic culture and identity. The Muslim traders first visited Arakan in the 7th century and established their Kingdom in 1430 AD. They ruled Arakan for nearly 350 years till they were conquered by Burmese in 1784. Later the British occupied Burma in 1824 who ruled till 1948, when Burma became an independent state. Even^since the Arakanese lost their independence to Burmese tioijimination! they have been subjected to religibus and cultural exploitation.
                                                                                   / ^ / ' 1
        In. April 1942, the Maghs equipped with arms;
 plundered the Rohingya villages in connivance with —t
 Burma independence Army and massacred nearly 100, 000 Rohingyas. In 1947, general Aung of Burma, held a conference in Pang long, where all the national groups were invited except the Rohingyas of Arakan. In the conference he gave written assurance to British government to protect and meet the rights and demands of all nationalities of Burma, but that of the Rohingyas of Arakan were not even discussed. It was in 1947 that enrollment for the first general election of Burmese constituent assembly was carried out throughout Burma. In the process the Burmese authorities deliberately excluded the Rohingyas area of Arakan. The Rohingyas did contact the British government as the election was scheduled to be held quite some time after the enrollment, but by that time the constitution of Burma had already been framed. Thus the Burmese authorities tactfully debarred the Rohingyas from becoming part of the efforts of for framing of the constitution. As a result their rights and privileges did not find > a mention in the constitution and were once again left out unguaranteed. Ever since and after the departure of B ritish, the Rohingyas .have been socially degraded, economically crippled, religiously persecuted and politically liquidated. Some (of the wrongs done to them need to be elaborated.
                                                                                       Social Persecution
       All Rohingyas social, cultural, religious and student organizations or associations have been totally banned by the government, — Deliberate and persistent attempts have been made to impose the majority culture on the Muslims.                       )
 — Government sponsored media has been painting the pictures of the Muslims in such a way that their fellow countrymen look at them with contempt and hatered.
t
 — Muslims' lives and property are continuously in danger due to riots and many lives are lost every month.
                                                                                                                 The Mujahideen, Octobe / Novemberr, 1991
              is allowed to move from one place to another without a permit which is not easily attainable.
 — Rohingyas history has been practically obliterated, Muslim culture, Muslim relics, archaeological remains and monuments have been destroyed. The Muslim names of places have
 — Medical treatment, educational facilities and social welfare services are non-existent in the Rohingyas area. No outside humanitarian organizations are allowed nor the Burma Red Cross Society did render
                     Page 33
 humiliate elders, beat up youths, snatch away valuables, enter into the houses and dishonour women.
 — Muslims are forced to provide food items, firewood and construction material free of cost round the year for the soldiers and workers and other law enforcing authorities.
                       GENOCIDAL CRIMES / ACTS AGAINST ROIUNGYA STATISTICAL FIGURES 1942-1991
No         Crimes / Acts        Approx                         Remarks                    
1-  Destruction of settlements  715         Over the whole region of Arakan.              
2-  Exodus/Expulsion            1,200,000                       -do-                      
3-  Massacre                    1,80,000    Massive in 1942.                              
4-  Arson                       6,700       Over the entire region.                       
5-  Rape                        2,600                           -do-                      
6-  Murder                      6,000       Mostly by B.T.F now alarmingly increased.     
7-  Detention (Rohingyas                                                                  
    & other Muslims).           4,500 .     Mostly in Arakan, Maungdaw, Buthidaung Akyab, 
                                            Rathedaung, Insein, Moulmein, Prome.          
8-  (a) Destruction of          1,975       Over the whole region of Arakan.              
    Mosques, Maqtabs and                                                                  
    Madrasahs                                                                             
    (b) Destruction on Holy     7,00,000                       - do -                     
    Books and'&criptures.                                                                 
9-  Confiscation of Waqf land & 6,000                           -do-                      
         Trust properties.                                                                
10-    Confiscation of land     Acres Worth                    - do -                     
          properties etc.       Millions of                                               
                                   Kyat.                                                  
11-  Removal from Govt Service  10,500                        ' - do -                    
      (including nationalised                                                             
          Organization).                                                                  
12- Missing.                    21,500      Govt explanation is left the country.         
13-     Unemployed / under      2,50,000    Over the entirSegion.                         
             employed.                                                                  J 
 been changed. Arakan and Akyab are changed to Rakhine pray and Sittwe-which are names used by Buddhists.
 — In all schools, Muslirh, students are being brain washed/witb anti-Islamic education.
                       ,i /
 —Since 11 October 1966 no Muslim
 — Rohingyas are being press-ganged into forced labour as porters and workers for construction of roads, dams, buildings - even women folk are dragged out of the houses and hauled to the work sites.
I
5
 any help and medical services to the Rohingyas even during the time or natural calamities and epedimics like the severe cyclonic holocaust of 29 April 1991, which took hundreds of Ijives.
 — Burmese soldiers, law enforcing authorities and Klaghs ruffians often go round the Muslim villages.
Economic persecution
     Muslim lands are confiscated on fictitious grounds and non-Muslims are being settled on their lands.
 -— Almost all shrimp culturing dams and salt farms owned by the Rohingyas have been confiscated.
 — The agricultural taxes on farmers are so high and oppressive that it is not simply possible for them to make the payment. No mercy is shown to Rohingyas even in the days of natural catasrophes, destruction of crops by pests, etc.
 —Muslims are not allowed to carry on business and trade. Shops oWned by the Muslims are often looted and sometimes set on fire. In duly 1991 hundreds of shops were seized at Maungdaw town and property worth millions of Kyats was looted.

                                                                                    . The Mujahideen, October t November, 1Paf*34
  (^Religious persecutionj)
         Religious activities of Rohingyas arc under humiliating restrictions. On 23 May 1991, the mosques and the headquarters of the Islamic preaching Centre of Maungdaw was closed down.
 —   Mosques and Madrasahs arc desecrated, burrft down and turned into military barracks or warehouses.
 —   Muslim grave-yards have been converted into banana orchards or public latrines.
 —   Waqf properties are being confiscated and distributed among non-Muslims.
 —   Religious dignitaries are humiliated, manhandled and forced to work in labour camps.
 —   The use of loudspeakers is not permitted in mosques.
 —   Muslim orphanages and other religious institutions arc not given any aid by the government.
                       y '
 —   Sacrifice of animals on religious occasions / is curbed through rcstrictivc fnca5iurcs. *' •
 — A very meagre quota is given to Muslims for performance of Haj.
   Political Persecution
         The new Burmese citizenship law of 1982, as ratified by the Burmese parliament has declared Rohingyas as “State less people” and “Illegal immigrants” from Bangladesh. Through this enactment, the authorities aim to throw out all Rohingyas from Arakan.
 —r* Rohingyas arc not allowed to form any independent political party of their own which could serve the interest of their people. They are given no participation in the affairs of the state.
 —   They have been deprived of their rights of franchise as many of them have been deliberately denied to register in the voting list.
 —   Rohingyas arc not all recruited in defence services and grossly discriminated against in civil services. Those in civil services are being dismissed or forced to resign.
 —   Since independence (1948) the
 successive Burmese regimes have launched 16 major anti-Rohingyas armed operations and engincere 64 communal riots in Arakan to drive out Rohingyas from their ancestral homeland. Constant oppression by the security forces and degradation have forced the Rohingyas to flee their homeland and take shelter in         neighbouring
 Bangladesh or other countries like India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Thailand, Malaysia etc. In this manner over 1.2 million Rohingyas are uncarcd for refugees living a dismal life.
        The ongoing genocide and oppression in Burma should be stopped by the joint efforts of the UN and its member states. UN must take the initiative and urge the Burmese regime to respect human dignity and protect human life and property of Rohingya people in Arakan.
        Like the Palestinians, Kashmiris and Afghanis, it is the result of forcible dispossession of the Rohingya population and their expulsion from their homeland by means of in-human persecution and harassment.
        It is denial of fundamental human rights and freedoms under UN declaration. It is the moral duty of all the countries and the concerned international organizations to come to assistance of Rohingya refugees wherever they are, in giving them shelter and meeting their essential requirement for survival. The Rohingya people must be given full support to go back to their homeland honourably. ^ (Countesy "The News")
                                                                                                        The Mujahideen, OctoberNovember, 1991 ®
s Page 35 ms
           .*.^
  Position of Women

        in Islam
                    Introduction. This is the second part of our articles on Women written by one of our sisters: Ummu Abdullah, in this series, the writer tries to explain that; the phrase: Position of Women in Islam, implies the way by which Islam treats women with regards to their dignity, honour and rights.
                                                    C^UmmuAbdullaH^
          In fact some heretics are of the contrary opinion about Islam and the rights of women. According to a scholar, these people are of the opinion that Islam regards women as lowly, totally weakling and captives in the hands of men. To these people women are deprived of all rights and priviledges. They are also deprived of the blessings of letters (education) and therefore women are required to stay at home with their eyes closed and detached from the society.
          When one examined the position of women in Islam one would be able to see that these people are talking from a purely ignorant perspective.
          Islam as a religion preserves * the dignity of women and thereby outlines their rights hence women are endowed with various rights. These rights include that of marriage with other attendant rights, such as dower and owning of property which are all embeded in marriage so also are the right of divorce, the right to fedupation, politics and religion:
          To start with Islam considers men and women equal as far as human
  rights are concerned. The Holy Prophet .of Islam (P.B.O.H) “Women are the twin halves of men”. In the light of this we can infer that Islam does not only recognize human personalty for both men and women but it also consider them as equal in all rights and human priviledges.
          The holy book of Islam as well often speaks of two mates which are men and women. The Holy Qur’an says both men and women are created from a single soul. At times the Holy Qur’an refers to men and women in a single language. To butress this fact there are some references in the Holy Qur’an where Almighty Allah refers to both men and women as partners, and friends
  to one another. •
         *          ,m
          This then means that women are also equal to their male counterparts in all respects. Although this does not mean that there are no differences betweep the two sexes. Men are physically stronger than their women counterparts. Men are biologically different from women. Among those Qur’anic references that refer to both ipale and female as equal include the followings: -
  “O mankind! reVere your Lord who
  created you from a single soul, and from
  it created of like nature. His mate and ------------------r---------------------
from them both scattered like seeds countless! men and women”. 1
“O mankind we created you from a single (pair) of a male and female and made you into nations and tribes”2
“And the believer, the men and the women are friends of one another”.3
         In all the verses of the Holy Qur’an quoted above men and women are equally addressed in the word mankind. In Islam women are regarded as the axis of the society because they are the mothers of the society. The family is a small union of individuals which include women. A society lacking mothers (women) is not complete. When a mother fails to perform her natural duties in a family the cordial relations of the members is affected because Islam gives the dignity of training children to mother. Although men are also concerned in the training of children but it is the mothers that are majorly charged with this role. Infact no society can function without women. The ultimate perfection of the family dependstm the women in that family.
                            t
         The Holy Prophet (P.B.O.H) while defining the dignity of women was quoted to have said thus:-
“If a society is good the women of that
                                                  Mujahideen, October / November, 1991                                          Page 36 WmmmSm
 society are good and if a society is bad the women of that society are bad.”4
         The Holy Prophet did not stop here, he also enjoined the whole mankind to treat women in a gentle and kind manner.
         He said this because he realized that women are the sisters, wives and mothers of the society therefore he said:
 “Stick to your mother for the paradise is beneath her feet”5
         Italso happened that on another occasion a man came to the Prophet (P.B.O.H) to inquire from him the person that deserves his duty fust and the Prophet (P.B.O.H) told the man to be good to his mother three times before mentioning his father.
 The man asked, who has the greatest right of a good company of the child?
 The Prophet answered: “Your mother”
 The man said: Wbp’s next?
 The Prophet replied: “Your mother”
 The man asked, who’s next?
 The Prophet answered: “Your mother”
 The man: Who’s next?]
 The Prophet (P.B.O.H) then said “Your father”6
         The Prophet (P.B.O.H) also said during his last pilgrimage while he was giving his last sermon that a man should treat his wife kindly and that a man should also provide food and clothing for his wife.
         Islam in realization of the dignity of women also grant them their natural rights. These rights shall be examined under the following subheadings:- Marriage, Inheritance, Right of women ontaen, Religion, Education and Politics.
_ .
   RIGHTS OF WOMEN TO MARRIAGE
          Marriage is the sacred union between two people that is a man and a woman. This contract has to be initiated by one of the two parties. Therefore it is the man that intitiate it except in rare cases when a woman initiates it. The question that then arises is this: Does that degrade the status of the woman or is it an insult on the personality of the women. The answer to this is that men do not ask the hands of women in marriage to degrade them. In the light of this, women are given the right to turn down or to accept man’s proposal. It is the man’s instinct to make the fust approach while it is the woman’s instinct to be a source of attraction andthis attitude is perfectly in accordance with the latter's nature of self restraint. From the time immemorial men have been approaching women with their common proposal and requesting conjugality from them. In fact this has been the greatest weapon in safeguarding the prestige and honour of women. Men do notapproach women because they are superior neither are the women taken as inferior sex to them hence women are being loved. Islam stipulates the custom of asking a woman’s hand in marriage to preserve their honour and prestige. Even when a woman asks for a man’s hand in marriage — though in rare cases — it does not tamper with her honour and prestige.
          Among the rights given to woman in marriage include the right to reject any groom who is not her choice irrespective of her parent’s consent. A woman has the right to choose her husband whether she is a widow or a divorcee even if the parents do not give their consent. Islam forbids imposed marriage and it is also against compulsion in marriage.
          When the proposal is made and acceptance is given, dower then comes in. Islam gives women the right to take from thei{ suitors a token amount known as (Maher) dower. This dower is given by the groom in order to preserve the economic rights of the wife after marriage and to strengthen her financial position. It also serves as obstacle to the dissolution of the marriage for frivolous reasons. The money should be given to women as free gift. Islam also gives the women the right to take it without refunding it e>#n if the two parties are to part ways later on.
          Islam also stipulates that women should not be treated with harshness in order to take away part of the money given to them. In the ' light of this, the Holy'Qur’an says:
 “I^or should ye treat them with harshness so that ye may take away part of the dower given them”7
 The following verse also declares thus:
 “Even if ye have given the latter a whole treasure for dower take riot the least bit of it back..”8
            )
          In the light of the above verses, it is therefore unlawful for men to take back what they have given to women as dower.
                                                 The Mujahideen, Octobere / November, 1991                               Page 37
  ----------------------------------------------------------------7--------------^
           Women arc allowed to hold property in their own respect and( they could dispose of their property independently. This property includes what they might have acquired through their own labour or acquired through dower, inheritance, by gift, or through any other way that is lawful. A woman can own an estate and the woman may reside in her own estate, if the husband has not got power to provide her a domicile. The husband can as well reside with the wife but the woman still remains the legal owncrof the house. In fact the husband’s consent is only necessary because the husband is the head of the house. The rationale behind this is not that the man will take the possession of her estate but that the male must always be affirmed as the head of the family. The woman is still the mistress of her personal estate.
           If a woman is wealthy she can also willingly help her husband from her own wealth.
   If she decides not to, the husband can not lake the possession of her property by cohesion on this. Even if it happens that a woman dies while the husband is alive, the spouse can never take the death of such a wife as an advantage to take her belongings. The husband is howeverentitlcd to certain fixed portion of her property after her demise but not to the extent of taking everything. The property of a woman is not also shared along with that of her husband in case the latter' dies first. The Woman retains her right over her own property while only the property of the husband is disbursed to the appropriate channels. The stand of the Holy Qur’an is as follows:
   “Q ye who believe you are forbidden to inherit women against their will”9
   The Holy Qur’an thus warns that women’s property should not b 6taken over unlawfully. This verse could also be taken to mean that men are forbidden in Islam to marry widows by force or through inheritance. '
v . _______j_____________SL-______________________J
 I THE RIGHTS OF WOMEN ON MEN 1
          This implies the obligatory duties of men to I women. The rights include proper maintenance I when she is healthy or sick by making for her I adequate provision for food, shelter and clothing. I In Islam men are enjoined to treat women with love and kindness. The authority of this is found in the j Holy Qur’an and the Sunnahofthe Holy prophet. It is incumbent upon the men to take care of their wives during the latter’s sickness. A man should be responsible for the cost of the medical care. Although a man may not be held responsible for Everything. The woman could as well help the husband out of her own means. Thus a woman can still remit part of the money expended on her when the woman recovers from her sickness and then resumes work.
          Islam also gives women the right to be provided with adequate food, and other things. To butress this the Holy Qur’an declares thus:-
   “Men are the protectors of women because Allah hath given some of you more strength than the other and that they support them from their means" 10
          In the light of the above verse, it is therefore apparent that women are not obliged to work in order to provide for herself and her family. The burden is incumbent on the husband, however the . woman can co-operate and support the husband, especially if the husband is poor since poverty is not an excuse for a Muslim man or woman to practice celibacy.
          The rights which Islam gives women as regards inheritance is also seen as a sort of emancipation for them when we examine some Jahiliyyah systems of inheritance. In these various customs; a woman who bears no issue for a man is | notentitledtohispropertyandalsothemalechildisen of a deceased are regarded to have better rights to inheritance than the female children. Moqe often than not the women are excluded completely from inheritance.

                                                                                                                       The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
& Page 38
^wwwwwwwwvwwwimwwwwwww^^
THE RIGHTS TO DIVORCE

        Islam gives women the right to sue for divorce if they are disallowed their conjugal rights. They are entitled like men to sue for the dissolution of marriage even without the permission of the law court or the consent of the husband. Still on the issue of divorce, women are given a kind of right and opportunity through a process known as delegated divorce. This implies the practise whereby the husband empowers women to make themselves free of marriage bond. There is also a right given to women whereby they can stipulate that if the husband do certain things contrary to the woman’s wish they can sue for divorce.
        The door of divorce is not open for only mt?n but also women as well. In Islam the rights of women are so preserved that if a woman is to be divorced the husband has to first of all submit evidence before the judiciary, (where shariah is being practised). The judiciary will then assess his proves. If his proves and evidences are reliable he has a ground for divorce but if otherwise the couple will have to settle their disputes.
        In addition to the provision of evidence ’ and proving of the reliability of the evidences, the husband is obliged to house the woman for a period of three months consecutively. If the wife is pregnant the period goes beyond that period and it continues till she delivers her burden. This waiting period is called the Iddah period in Islamic law. It is important to note here that the woman still has the right to be catered for as usuals, even if the man will not reconcile with |he woman again. To butress this the Qur'an*1 declares thus:-
  “fit?r divorced women maintenance should be
 provided by the husbands on a reasonable (scale). This is a duty on the righteous. Doth God make clear His signs to you: In order that ye may understand” 11
        It is apparent from the above verses that a man is compelled by Allah (Swt) to cater for his divorced wife even if the divorce is initiated by the man yet the man has no legal right in Islam to expel the woman from his house during this waiting period. The women’s right to custody is as well guaranteed and she has the right to nurse her children. She also has the right to continue her occupation. If a woman is divorced after the consummation of the marriage, she still have the right to take her dowry or any deffered part of it. Concerning this afore mentioned rights the Holy Qur’an declares thus:-
 “There is no blame on you if ye divorce women before consummation of the fixation of their dower but bestow on them (a suitable gift) the wealthy according to his means and the poor according to his means, a gift of a resonable amount is due from those who are prone to do the right thing." 12
 “And if ye divorce them before consummation but after the fixation of dower for them. Then half of the dower (is due to them) unless they remit it 7>r the man’s half is remitted by him in whose hands is the marriage tie. And the remission of the man’s half is the nearest to righteousness. And do not forget goodness between yourselves for Allah sees well all that ye do" 13
        In lieu of the above quotations it is then apparent that it is the woman’s right to be treated with kindness and equity even when the marriage bond or ties has bee(n dissolved..
                                                                                                  To be continued

                                                                    The Mujahideen,October I November, 1991 WWMmm&WM&Mm&Wm:- Page 39 mmmm%i
    Affection of the Prophet for
              Children
i

                                                 (Written on the occasion of International day for Children)
          Before the advent of Islam the Arabs in general were very callous and cruel to their children. They would kill their small children as a sacrifice in the name of gods and deities. Sometimes they would kill them out of the fear of poverty. They would also murder little daughters because, to them the birth of daughters was a source of shame. The parents were unaware of die value of their children. They had no affection and love for the little babies.
          Once an Arab came to the Holy Prophet (PBOH) and narrated hjs story in these words. “I had a small daughter. When she had reached the age of six or seven years, I dressed her well and look her out. Uninformed, she was happy with the outing. She thought we were going to watch interesting things. 1 took her to a lonely place out of the town. Already I had dug a spot. When we reached that spot I pushed her into the well. She was calling'Abu Abu’ while I was stoning her. At last she she died. Then I filled the well with mud and came to house alone.” The story was so tragic that brought tears from the Prophet's (PBUH) eyes wetting his beard.
          Hazrat Mohammad (PBUH) came to the world to elevate man to high moral ground. He could noj tolerate this heinous custom. He forbade the Arabs from crimes against their* children. He called to Muslims,"Allah (Almighty) has termed the killing of daughters as Haram.” This was due to the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) that the Arab land was made a safe place for little daughters. Not only they were safe bill got the dignified position unprecedented in world history. He told those who sacrificed their children at the altar of gods and dictics, that Allah Almighty has forbidden people from such acts. To the equal parties he impacted the verdict of Allah (SwT) that those who murder their children unduly are at great loss.
          The parents who killed their babies to save them from hunger and poverty, Were iriformed by the prophet (PB U H) that •Allah (SWT) grants everyone to eat. Every soul who comes to this world brings his share with him. He preached to the people
 with the command of Almighty Allah, meaning, that do not kill your babies out of the fear of hunger, that Wc grant you and your children to eat and that to kill them is a great sin. Once a companion of the prophet (PBUH) asked him about Gunah Kabira (big sins). He answered and said,“To kill your babies for the fear of hunger is also a great sin.”
           Our prophet (PBUH) not only ended the custom of child-muder but introduced a new custom of love and affection to small babies. "He exhorted people to be kind to children. One of his say ing goes, he who is not affectionate to our children is not of us”. He called all the children “our children” thus showing his kindness for them. He would always demonstrate compassion to babies. He would pat and kiss them. Wherever he came across the little angels, he would be the first to say “Assalam-u- A Laikum” to them. Once an Arabi came to the prophet (PB UH) who was busy show ing his love to Hazrat Has an. Th is scene surprised the Arabi as it was against the old tradition of Arabs and asked, “Do you show love to your children? I have ten children but have never shown love to any one. The Prophet (PBUH) looked up to the man and said,” If Allah (SWT) has taken away affection and compassion from your heart, then w hat could I do.” To stress the importance of children he said,” If you were faithful, you too would consider children as a source of blessing and solace."
           Fourteen hundred years before was the time when according to the author of “The History of Morality in Europe”, “Even the civilized law in Europe admitted the authority of a father to kill his Children. There was no questioning about this and child-killing was an oft repealed proclaimed act." By the very period our prophet of Islam (PBUH) called the.” children as a source of blessing and solace.”
           All over the world, what to speak of Arabia and Europe, was oblivious to the rights of children. Children ^ were taken as cattle. But the prophet Mohammad (PBUH) had come to the world as a blessing, he granted the chi ldren not only eternal safety but through taking them into his laps, setting them on his shoulders and drawing close to his chest, granted them a universal respect and greatness for all the ages to come.«»
I '■
»<!!

li


                                                             The Mujahideen, October I November, 1991
ISLAMIC PARTY USSR
                                        Dr. Ahamd Qadihi, Emir of Nahdha Islamic party, (Soviet Union) sent a message to all Muslims of the world recently. His speech was in Arabic rendered into English by one of our staff writers and presented to our own readers by Yasin Murtadah
         Praise be lo Allah, the Lord of the worlds, peace and Blessings upon the Messenger Muhammad and hiscompanions. To everybody who is a member of the international Islamic community, to every body who shares the tenets and message of the international Islam. To all, we say peace be upon you. These passages are meant for you. They are essence of a true call. Which position are we from the sayings of the Messenger, peace be upon him ? Who says. “He who cares not for the affairs of the Muslims is not one of them”?
         “The example of the believers in their love, mercy and co-operation to each other is like the similtude a unit body. If one organ of it complains, the whole body partakes full day and night with fever”. The prophetof Allah may peace and blessings be upon him has indeed said the truth.
         Every one of you knows what the situation is in USSR and how much they hate religion and fight it, especially Islam. They have made every, effort to destroy every thing that had relation with religion. Although they killed our scholars, burnt the Qur’an and other religious books and destroyed the mosques, but they could not change the Muslims.
         Going into the details about what the Communist Party had done, is a long story, but what we want to mention is that the same policy is continuing. It was the reason behind the fighting between Qerqizia and Ozbek nations at LoSh, between Armenian and Azerbaijan, and also at Baku where thousands were killed. They used to cause fighting between a Muslim and non Muslim nation, while supporting the non-Muslims. They gave them modem weapons while Muslimscannotgcta simple hunting gun. We should not trust them, they do not care if all Muslims are-killed even if they give promises and guarantees but the point is that they never fulfil any agreement when it is related to.Muslims.
              / » /
         Inspi'leof all the tremendous efforts of the communist party to force the Muslims to change their religion to
     k
 communism, they could not reach their goals. Allah by his mercy had kept our religion alive in our hearts. You will find nowadays intellectuals who believe that our religion is a powerful, active way of life. Islam deals with all affairs on earth: religion, state, economy, law, politics, science, obedience,and other aspects of life. They also understand that Islam regulates the life of the human being and guides it to the happiness of individuals and the society. Praise be to Allah, that has opened our eyes and our hearts to share the same goals
                                                USSR: a land of plenty and greatness trying to rise again after centuries of denial and plunder
 The Mujahideen, Octobe' I November, 1991
 Page 4i
 with our Muslim brothers all around the world to build up powerfully and contribute our own small quota to international Islamic rennaisancc.
         We know for sure that what had happened to us and to our fathers was a result of our deeds, of what we have done by our hands, this fact is thought to us by the Holy Qur’an. We and our fathers had missed and forgotten some important parts of Islam related to Jihad, education, power economy, politics, and so on and adopted only a part of Islam. Only that we were in trouble because we did not adopt Islam as a whole. Again praise be to Allah that we are now understanding our past mistakes, may Allah forgive us and our fathers. We are now trying our best to adopt Islam properly.
      4 A Tale of Arrogance^
                                                  <^Abu Abdur-RahmarT>
        Islam is essentially based on faith as well as practice, and reality revolves round truth and justice. Whenever a community is honestly devoted to Islam, accepting the commandments of Allah as a way of life to be followed, using the Sunnah of His messenger as light to guide, they benefit themselves and need not tell the world that Islam is the best before other nations confer on them their proper places as leaders of all races.
         In USSR there are four departments for Muslim religious affairs since 1944 in the era of Stalin. But since then till now these departments had done no important service for the Muslims. Those departments were tools in the hands of the governments to collect Muslims' money and not more. They have never performed any effort to preach or spread Islam. When young Muslims, who understood Islam properly found that those departments are of no use to Islam, they decided all over USSR to do some thing, to work together and propagate Islam all over USSR. On the sides of river Volga at the town of Esterkhan, South Russia, they met and established an Islamic party which they called, “Islamic Nahdha Party” and they have chosen Dr. Ahmad Qadi from Daghistan to be its leader and , its Amir.
         The main goals of the party are to renew the understandings of the Qur’an and the Sunnah and to fight all innovations (Beda) as well as to explain and spread Islam to all people every where around us in USSR in a proper way. We want to do the same as done by prophet Muhammad peace be upon him. We know that we are going to face many obstacles from the stale and from our Muslim brothers who had forgoLlen their main Islam ic duties. We will face many obstacles but this is natural for any body who wants to guide the people to the right path.
         The support of Muslims all over the world is badly needed. We need Muslim scholars, as all our Muslim scholars have been killed, and we have none as at now. We have to bring up a new generation of Muslim scholars so that they can carry out the duties of leading the people. We will send students to Muslim countries to study Islam. We need books, magazines, Islamic publications so that weean share ideas with the Muslim world and their activities.
         We need political support from the Muslim world so that we can re-establish our own identity. The party made the necessary plans to activate Islam in the hearts and minds of all the Muslims in USSR in all aspects of life. We will be having a special department for each branch of activities: education, > politics, economics, propagation, etc. May Allah support us to achieve our goals.**
 Nuh complained to his Lord:-
 "...Then I said; seek the forgiveness of your Lord; for He is the Most forgiving. He would send the sky on you abundantly (i.e. rain) and would strengthen you with children (i.e capital and man-power). Likewise provides you with gardens (i.e. agriculture) and grant you rivers (i.e. poly-hydro potentialities) (Nuh 1:10-12).
         But if the community is such that takes the commandments of Allah for jokes and ridicules, even though there is a verbal profession of Islam as a faith, if the society is such that believes in part of the message and substitutes the other pans with one or more of these satanic ideologies of our time, then its tales of woe linger for ever. Allah the Glorious wams:-
         "How many a nation was insolent against the commandment of Us Lord and His Apostle For this we called her to account - an accounting stringent (indeed) and punished her—A punishment frightful (to see). So she tasted the repercussion of her affair. But the consequence of her case was a loss.” (Al-Talaq 65:8-9).
 <*
         Sorrowful it is that this Divine warning has not been heeded by today's so-called superpowers. Relying so much on advanced techological developments, they are not prepared to see what is beyond the graveyards. The repercussion of this obstinacy is a world of class conflicts, as much as a community of injustice and savagery.
          With crooked diplomatic juggery, the evils of the spiritual perversion in the West is transmitted to other less developed countries. The effect is much predictably : Poverty is married to ignorance and people spend their lives under socio-political systems worst than the Babylonian and pharaonic oppressions. The word of Allah find its fulfilment in reality. Allah has not wronged any, but people are the ones quite unjust to themselves. Men of understanding should take heed. Please Contemplate #

wwmmm: The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 'S$;lSgiigiS                                                            Page 42
JSLm*......... v
Wr/?/////////// / /\ rang>\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 1

                                         nt*nn
                                       VJ tif H/t/

.+ .*■ ;r .r.+A- * A- A A A A *
AAAAAAAAAAAAAA?
          The use of Garlic (Allium sativum) for its purported health giving properties has an honorable tradition, being mentioned in 22 of 800 herbal remedies in the Codex Ebers, an Egyptian medical papyrus of 1550 BC. Bottom,however, acknowledged its major side effect when instructing his actors to “eat no onions nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath”. Garlic has been advocated for various ailments including heart disease, headache, bites, worms, tumours, cancer, and infections. Recent work suggests that it has a possible role in reducing vascular disease. Popular interest is currently greatest in Germany, where garlic preparations are the largest selling ojver the counter drugs.
          Garlic’s principal active agent is allicin, a sulphur containing compound, which, with its breakdown products, causes the characteristic odour. Allicin is formed enzymatically from an odorless precursor, alliin, when cloves are mechanically
                                   AJfnAl
Tloofnl
                  JVJf VI/
                                                           /If ff /)
disrupted. Other biologically active compounds related to allicin, ^uch asojoene, may also be extracted from fresh garlic.Garlic has beneficial effect on coagulation, platelet aggregation, vasodjlation, and serum lipid
 concentrations. A fall in fibrinogen and an increase in fibrinolysis have been reported. Garlic extract reduces the formation of acute platelet thrombus in vivo in stenosed coronary arteries in doge platelet aggregation in vitro, although the mechanisms are unclear. Garlic’s vasodilatory properties have been shown in human skin and conjunctival vessels. The packed cell volume, plasma viscosity, and blood pressure all fall with garlic. Concentrations of triglycerides and total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol fall with garlic while the concentration of high density lipoprotein cholesterol rises (although there have been contradictory studies). A recent review concluded that whereas large doses of fresh garlic (7-28 cloves a day) had beneficial effect on cardiovascular risk factors, data for commercial preparations were unconvincing and there was inadequate evidence to recommend garlic supplementation.
          One reason for the difficulty in showing the effectiveness of garlic is that active ingredients may be lost in processing. Carefully dried sliced cloves retain their potency, but extracts or oil prepared by using steam distillation or organic solvents may have little activity. In addition, the alliin content of natural garlic may vary 10-fold. Standardizing garlic products by using their potential for releasing allicin has been suggested.
 X •I ■I X •I •I X X X X X X X X X X X X X
 may have used inactive products and were jj poorly designed have recently been met by a 5 placebo controlled, randomized, double blind jj four month study in 261 German patients || with hyperlipidaemia. In those taking 800 jj mg dried garlic powder a day (Kwai, with Jj 1.3% allicin) serum concentrations of total X cholesterol feel from 6.87 to 6.07 mmol / 1 jj and of triglycerides from 2.55 to 2.12 mmol X /l/. A smell of garlic was reported (most jj frequently by spouses) in 21% of treated i| patients and 9% of those taking placebo. A jj similar dose of garlic taken for three months Jj in another controlled study was associated X with a significant fall in blood pressure from jj 171/102 to 151/89 mm Hg in hypertensive X patients, with one in eight reporting an odour jj of garlic.                                 Jj
                                                                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                                                                               X
           Confusion clouds the issue of i|
                                                                                                                   “odourless” garlic preparations: It is theodour jj
                                                                                                                   of the tablet or recipient that is being ^
                                                                                                                   described. Some garlic preparations contain X
                                                                                                                   no active ingredients and do not smell. Active [j
                                                                                                                   preparations may themselves be odorless, X
                                                                                                                   but if allicin is released of ingestion there jj
                                                                                                                   will be a substantial chance of a detectable i|
                                                                                                                   aroma. “Odour blocks” seem infective. Other jj
                                                                                                                   side effects such as gastrointestinal ^
                                                                                                                   disturbance, asthma, and contract dermatitis X
                                                                                                                                                               X
 are uncommon, although a spinal haemotoma ^ has been attributed to the antiplatclct effects X of garlic.                                 jj
                                                                                                                                                               X
           Evidence that garlic reduces jj cardiovascular risk factors is accumulating Jj but is incomplete. Some garlic preparations [j
 Criticisms that previous studies      sweet breath
                                             ||
 may be useful in treating hyperlipidaemia ^ and hypertension, but concomitant reductions X in morbidity and mortality remain to be jj shown. The possibility of detectable aroma X ( seems as inevitable consequence of ingesting jj an active garlic product. A late twentieth Jj century Bottom would recognise that the jj potential benefits of garlic may be offset by •( the social consequences of uttering without X
 t
                                                  The Mujahideen, October! November, 1991                                    43
Accepting the challenges of life constitutes an attribute of faith and pragmatic approach to ________________________reality elevates a believer well above others_________________________
          All praise be to Allah, the Praise - Worthy the Most High. Peace and Blessings of Allah on Muhammad, the honoured, the beloved. Also on all chosen prophets, their families, relatives and companions. May the Mercy of Allah remain with all hearts that believe in Islam.
 After this:-
          Thc globe for man, is a field for advancing human potentials, and maximizing available resources. It is indeed a place for satisfying his spiritual yearnings, intellectual probings and socio-political cravings. Allah the Exalted in Might says. •
 “ He is (the one) that made the earth for you tractable, thereftfre move along its highlands, And consume of its nourishment, for to H im is the Return”.
 ' (Al-Mulk(16): 15)
          prom the above glorious verse we can see that humanity has the world at its disposal. It is a planet conditioned to serve very much the needs of man on earth. To live as a member of the most advanced communities is to be conscious of the great obligations which such a favour demands. Responsibilities in life, entail a purposcfiil existence through constructive annexation of cosmic provisions, in advancing human wheel of progress, toward^ achieving universal
 peace. This requires not merely individual aspirations but also collective participation in as much as it is a global liberation.
          Being in the world means, having a duty and to be a man, is to discharge your obligations. Allah the Glorious has indeed said:-
 “llad it not come upon man a moment in time when he was a thing unmentioned We have indeed created man from a blended drop of sperm, (then) charged him with responsibilities (by) making him to hear and see”. (Al-Insan 76:1 -2)
          It is therefore Islamically a crime, to be irresponsible when one belongs to a genetic race, whose only purpose of existence is responsibility. The duty of man on earth is to live up to these expectations and the end of the world means termination of all mundane obligations. The hereafter which everybody is promised commences with the stringent accountability, which infact, is a new dimensional manifestation of all gone responsibilities. Allah the Exalted says:-
 "We have not created the heavens and earthalso what lies between them in vain (But) that is the assumption of those who disbelief Woe (then) to those who reject faith from hell" (As-sad 38:27)
          If we accept the fact that mankind as a single race has common universal obligation to perform as a
                                                                                                                         The Mujahuleen, October / November, 1991
Page 44
 fulfilment of the Divine Wisdom, we must however take cognisance that apart from the common duty shared by all, each member of the human race has its own seperate and incumbent duties to perform. The individual contribution is as important as its collateral collective operation. The former must be divested of selfish ego-centricism, as much as the latter from blind communal absolutism. Accepting the challenges of life constitutes an attribute of faith and pragmatic approach to reality, elevates a believer well above others. It is Islamically abhorrent to be neglectful of one’s natural duties, but worse in culpability, is the prevention of others from discharging their fundamental obligations on earth. Allah the Most High says:-
 "Those who disbelieve and hinder (others) from the path of Allah, we shall increase them in punishment after the (major) chastisement for the mischief they spread (on earth)”. (An Nahl 16:88)
         Personal infidelity, in a world of common reality, is in essence, an eccentric abdurdity, but persistent conspiracy and deliberate hostility, in obstructing the resolute movement
 of Universal Islamic T ransformation, is a colossal crime against the entire creation. The punishment is to be double fold, one, for willing unfaithfulness, and the other for global mischief mongering. The basic criterion in distinguishing a man from another, cannot be skin pigmentation, nor places of birth, nor geographical and residential locations. The common denominator in humanity is, acceptance of reality plus performance of one’s duties, or rejection and indifference to universal progress. Allah the Gracious says:- j
  Altruism then, without a convincing cosmic objectivity, leads straight to nowhere. The goal must precede at all times its means, as the path must proceed at any given moment, towards the aim.
           Naturally, we can say, man exists to be charged with duties, and Islamically, these various undertakings have their respective identities. The transition of what was yesterday, into what is today, represent vividly a historical picturesque of all created things. Our will to convert present thinkings, into future happenings, explains lucidly the force behind human strivings. The drive towards making tomorrow an improved version of today, readily provides rationale for all human philosophies of progress. In a situation where development is natural and humanity being a race with innate gregarious characteristic, its divergent civilizations at different times, must of necessity reflect as they do — very high collective tendencies. A man is judged in that case, not by what he holds as private property but by how much he gives as public gratuity. Not by what he keeps to himself personally but by what share he expends on humanity generally. It is not a question of accumulative possessibility but of strict contributive relativity. Allah the All-knowing says:-
  “As for him who gives away and is pious Also attests to goodness, we shall facilitate for him (real) prosperity.” (Al-Lail 92 :7)
         The man described here is a believer in Allah, not by mere verbal professions or vain empty pronouncements but by what he contributes as his own quota, towards human emancipation — spiritually and socio-politically. This contribution should be the peak of possible capacity, be it time, intelligence, sweat, money, blood and life. This becomes a practical demonstration of a hidden attestation. A transition of inner peity intoa witnessed reality. Above this too, is his subscription to the notion of Islamic Universal Goodness. He graduates therefore, from a simple believer to a dynamic Mujahid. This man holds that, in ’as much as perfection is no human attribute, for every human accomplishment there is a always a room for further improvements. It is to say that, there is no limit to human capability within the closed sphere of natural possibility. Global wheel of progress can thus be made a continuum.
 "Do we have to make those who believe And work righteously like corrupt ones on earth. Or do we have to make the pious (ones) similar to the sinful.” ( As-Sad 38: 28)
                              <              J’
          The message we are trying to convey here is that having faith is not as important as proving it. To profess a creed is not enough,butall spiritual declarations must be corroborated1 with socio-political actions. It means that, pragmatic consequences must follow realistic intellectual hypotheses.
          Humanity therefore as a race, has a responsibility and Muslim Ummah as a community must champion the cause. The focal point of these all, is the principle of contributive relativity which demands from every one, not all that he has, but at least a substantial fraction of things in his possession for a common objective, which is Universal Islamic Transformation. From the above divine verse, piety (i.e. spiritualism) must be accompanied by charity (i.e sociopolitics), which in turn must be geared towards universal goodness (i.e. Islamic cosmic perception). This is the centre of
 gravity, from it, people are variegated in thoughts as much as in deeds. It all depends on what each understands to be his role on the globe and his priority in life. Allah the Exalted says:-
 “By the night when it envelopes, and by the day when it permeates. Also (by) that (power) which has created the male andfemale. Certainly your strivings (O humanity) are diverse” (Al-Lail 92:1-4)
                              \
          It is not what one professes that is so much paramount this time, beacuse many people do say many things many times. But what gives credence to, or pretext of, a doctrine is what follows in deed to prove or disprove any attestation. Allah the Sovereign says:-
                                                         t, October I November, 1991
to appraise every member of huma ideological balance we can see I asset to humanity. The last three i They represent global culprits iikthdfrlilfdlCAt ]
The only legal authority to be loved, obeyed and < has positivity through out. While airWggal bpdi^are those which, show negative attitude towards the universal change. What matters therefore is one’s position vis-a-vis Islamic Cosmic Transformation. It is not he whose actions contradict professed doctrine, who oppresses others and promotes corruption on earth — even though he bears a Muslim name and claims to be a believer that is an asset to humanity. A true asset to mankind is such a person that professes Islam, whose action confirms his sayings, understands revelation as well as creation and inspite of numerous odds and clogs, struggles
     A man’s worth, from what we have seen, is measured in a community by his contribution to or disassociation from, Islamic Transformation. Legality or illegality of any group or any constituted authority depends on what it has as its goal, why it has chosen such an objective and finally, how does it conceptualize the best method in fulfilment of the goal. Now examining combinative mathematical probabilities and selecting only those realistic practical possibilities; We have:-
    (A) (WHAT)      (B) (WHY)        
    Words & Actions Divine & Mundane 
    (Sincerity)     (Understanding)  
i   Positive        Positive         
ii  Positive        Negative         
iii Negative        Positive         
iv  3               Negative         
    Negative                         
11                                 m 
(C) (HOW)
Universal Islamic Change. (Jihad)
Positive
Negative
                     ■ *
Negative
Negative
 "But as for he who is niggardly and feels (himself) beyond needs. Also rejects Goodness soon too shall we pave for him (his) predicament. And his possessions' will benefit him not when he tumbles into perdition ” (Al-Lail 92:8-11)
                                                    i
          This is the verdict of Allah the Supreme, the Sovereign. The condemned man here is an ingrate, who not only refuses to accept faith but is also useless and does not benefit humanity because of his miserliness, greed and inconsideration. Above these all, he feels him self bey pnd natural obligations by refusing to succumb to the universal concept of Islamic Goodness. He is therefore a man leading himself to perdition and his predicament is guaranteed solidly from his own ineptitude.             ‘
                            d
    /      * ‘           r*
    V
          Looking at the table on this page which is an attempt
 with all he has, against the multiple forces of infidelity and tyranny, in liberating humanity from the sledge-hammer of Iqcal polytheism and razor-blade of continental despotism. We can thus conclude here that, many are tagged today as rebels but in reality, they are vanguards. Others are labelled as extremists, where as they are true fundamentalists. Some too are hailed as divine partriots, when in fact they are accursed traitors. Allah the Glorious has of course said:-
 “And say, work(asye all please), for soon will Allah examine your actions , likewise His Apostle and the believing ones. And soon will you (too) be returned to the knower of the hidden and witnessed for he will (surely) inform you ofwhat you do”. At-Taobah (9): 105) ■
P E R I O D I CA
ISLAMICA
Editor-in-cheif «Dr. Munawar A. Anees Consulting Editor IZafar Abbas Malik ( Mamie Aita foundation. London)
Dear Editor:
                                 *
This refers to a contents indexing arrangement between periodica Islamica and The Mujahideen.
        In order to augment current awareness about your publications, periodica Islamica undertakes to reproduce, in its quarterly issues, tables of contents as they appear in your above cited journal. For representing your material in its original format, it is our policy not to perform any editing, except where changes become absolutely necessary. In any event, only accessory items and graphics, if any, are deleted from the list.
        It is my pleasure to enclose herewith a gratis copy of periodica Islamica for your records. Please refer to the “periodical Title List” to check on the placement of your material. I hope you would like the prominece accorded to your journal. Kindly verify your mailing addresses as it appears under the “Publishers Address List” and notify me of any changes.
        It is our belief that periodica Islamica offers you a unique opportunity to reach a worldwide readership. I am confident that the current awareness brought about by periodica Islamica would help in improving the market potential of your publications.
        As a token of our appreciation for your kind cooperation, we have specially designed a printing mat for you. Enclosed please find a positive film for the same. Please place it in every issue of your jounal. This should identify that your publication is indexed by periodica Islamica.
        Finally, I would like to confirm that you would continue to receive a gratis copy of Peiodica Islamica irrespective of the indexing status of vour journal: Please check vour mailing list to ensure that we continue to recive vour cited journal.
        Oncec again, my sincere thanks to you for giving periodica Islamica an opportunity to serve you.
^ Berita Publishing
22 Jalan Liku, 59100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Tel: (+60-3) 282-5286 Fax: (+60-3) 282-1605
Sincerely,

                                                                       / * Dr. Munawar A. Anees
1
rnmmm
 The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
! Page 47
 !
 !
 :
 ►
 ►
 ►
 x
 ►
 ►
 X
 M
 £
 9
 £
 s
 £
 fl
 3
 3
 9
 £
 >
 ¥
 ¥
 I
 ¥
 X
 N
 M
 £
 9
 £
 >
 M
 ►
Letters to the Editor
          I have been reading your esteemed magazine form the past one year since my joining service as a clerk in Gomal University D. I. Khan. While reading this magazine I break into tears and my heart laments for the tragedy which has befallen on this proud and honourable nation. The way you express and offer solutions to the present problems confronted by the “Muslim Ummah” is also appreaciable. I am sure that one day your voice would reach everywhere throughout the world.
          Actually all these problems can be solved with firm determination of mind and heart. The help which is extending your magazine towards "Mujahideen" emboldens my faith that one day the efforts of Mujahideen will bring fruitful results. Insha Allah.
                                                                                                        Inamullah Khan, J / clerk Dell, of Pub. ADMN Gomal University D. I. Khan
 Broker Inamullah,                                                                                (N.  W. F P.) Pakistan.
          We are thankful to you for your letter and appreciate your keen interest in The Mujahideen Magazine. We also offer you the pages of this magazine if you want to write articles on the different issues confronting Muslim Ummah. ...Editor


 \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
 Dear Sir,
         I am a regular reader of The Mujahideen. There is hardly any time which I read your magazine that 'am not filled with happiness in that I see better and it seems I know why Imperialists would generally not allow any Muslim nation to stand on its feet and would go at any length in blackmailing and destroying those so called Islamic Fundamentalists in Western ideological terminologies. My aim is to inquire if people like us here in Africa could reproduce some of your articles in our local Newspapers and journals so as to extend the circum ference of benefit to others too.                . •
                                                 May Allah bless you and guide us all
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yours in Islam Taha Farid Lagos, Nigeria
 Dear Taha,
         Thanks for your letter.All articles in our magazine are meant for the Muslim World in seeking the blessed pleasure of Allah the Most High. Therefore we are not only permitting you to reroduce those articles you feel are necessary but also emphasising to you that such duties arc obligatory in faith. Please do so without hestitation and encourage others to do the same but don't forget to indicate your sources when ever that is done' to complete the trust of knowledge and Dawah.
               J i
               / J                                                                           Thanks
                                                                                                                         The Editor
V
y




                Please send your subscriptions to The Mujahideen at the Bank Account No. given below.
                                 Habib Bank Limited Cantt. Branch, A/c No. 4852-76 Pwshawar, Pakistan
—>l

Attention readers
          If you wield a facile pen; please write to "The Mujahideen" on various issues concerning Muslim Ummah in particular and the whole humanity in general. The article should, however be well typed. The editor of the magazine is looking for positive responses from its
                                             worthy readers.
                                            Subscription rates Pakistan: Rs. 100 per anum All other countries: US $ 25 per anum
                                                    Correspondence Address:
                                                  The Mujahideen P.O. Box 710 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan
.IAHIDEEN
 Chief Editor:       S.  Alamuddin  Atheer
 Acting Editor:           Israrullah  Khan
 Composed & Designed by:  A. Latif Stanikzai
*
   •■t * A- A- A- A- A- A- A-                                                                                                                                                                                     .4-.4- A- A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *\j4- A- A- * *■ A- A- A- A- A- A- A- A- * A- A- A- A- * .*- .♦;#■ A-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A A A A A- A- A A * A- A- A- A- A- * A * A- A-
                   Sayings of the Holy Prophet
                       (SHU)
 1 - Narrated Anas who took part in the battle of Badr and was a Naqib (somebody heading a group of six) on the night of Al-Aqaba pledge: Allah's Prophet (peace be on him) said while a group of his companions were around him, "Swear allegiance to me on:
 *  Not to join anything in worship along with Allah.
 *  Not to steal;
 *  Not to commit adultery;
   •t
 *  Not to kill your children;
 *   Not to accuse an innocent person (to spread such an accusation among people); and
 *  Not to be disobedient (when ordered) to do good deed."
 2- Narrated Aisha; "Whenever Allah's Prophet ordered the Muslims to do something, he used to order them deeds which were easy for them to do (according to their strength and endurance)". They said "0 Allah's Prophet (peace be on him), we are not like you. Allah has forgiven your past and future sins." So Allah's Prophet (peace be on him) became angry and it was apparent on his face. He said, "I am the most Allah-fearing,and know Allah better than all of you do".


niKSfe

J-

ACKU

Wtiti
ill


safe*