Hekmatyar’s visit to Qandahar
Qandahar
r '• ' r •-
Issue
"We want to establish an independent, no-aligned, and stable Islamic government in Afganistan.
"The future government of free Afghanistan will maintain friendly relations with all States except those acting against the faith, independence and territorial integrity of our homeland.
"We will make independent judgement on all international issues, supporting the rights and condemning the wrong
"Our internal and external policies willbebasedonthe Qura‘an and Sunnah.
"The rights of all Afghan nationals would be duly protected by the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
"We will be asking for elections and the establishment of an elected government and parliament. We have always made it clear that we will never accept unelected and imposed government in any form at any cost nor will take part in any such government.
"The Islamic State will take all possible measures for the promotion of science and technology and for the reconstruction and development of Afghanistan in order to make it a self-reliant and self-sufficient State."
                                                                                                               Eng. Gulbudin Hekmatyar Amir Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan

The
MUJAHIDEEN
                                                          Monthly
1st Vol                           3rd Year
Editor:       Sur Gul Speen                
Founder:      Hezb-i-Islami                
              Afghanistan                  
Address:      The Mujahideen Monthly       
              P.O. Box 1014          1.    
              University Town        2.    
              Peshawar, Pakistan           
Subscription: Afghanistan:           3.    
(See page 54) Afs. 50.00             4.    
Monthly:      Afs. 500.00                  
STUDENTS:                            I5-   
Monthly:      Afs. 20.00                   
              Afs. 200.00            \6.   
PAKISTAN:                            7.    
Monthly       Rs. 6.00                     
Annual:       Rs. 60.00              8.    
STUDENTS:                                  
Monthly:      Rs. 5.00               I9,   
Annual:       Rs. 50.00              1ft   
FOREIGN:                             in.   
Monthly:      US$ 1.20                     
Six Months:   US$ 6.00               112.  
Annual:       US$ 12.00              ) 13. 
Published by  Cultural Committee           
November 1968
  CONTENTS
                                                    Page
Editorial.........................5
Hekmatyar’s visit to Qandahar.....7
IUAM Considering Russian move for direct talk.............11
                                                                                IUAM reject consensus resolution.. 14
UN Assembly takes up
Afghan issue..................16
Mujahideen soon hold election.16
                                                                                 Cordovez has no right to interfere ..17
Hekmatyar lauds Gorbachev decision........................18
Fall of Spin Buldak.............18
The Fall of Paktika.............22
Open letter to Gorbachev........25
Research and Advisory Council..32
Isreali Terrorism fails to
break Palestinians will.........35
The Mujahideen Monthly
3
November 1988
        14.  "Scorched by Qandhar"...........37
        15.  One eye on the ground and
             another on the sky..............39
        16.  The Soviet style of good
             neighbourliness.................42
        17.  Introduction of Commanders......43
        18.  News............................45
J
                    From: The Mujahideen Monthly
V
                  You can get our magazine from the Representatives of the Afghan Mujahideen.
Dr. Mohammad Ashraf Amanyar   Dr. Abdul Aziz Majidi    
Regional Office of            P.O. Box 1848            
Afghan Mujahideen for         Canberra 2601            
Southeast Asia                Australia                
No. 902/4 Jalan Tun Ismail    Tel. 473051              
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia                                 
Tel. 03-291 7943,             M. Halim Tanweer         
03-291 4835                   Informatie Bureau van    
                              Afghaanse Mujahideen     
Abdul Hanan Waheed            Postbus 1492             
52-B, Anson Road,             8001 B1 Zwalle, Holland  
Crickle Wood London NW2, U K. Tel. 543759              
Tel. 01-208 0763              Qabil Saddiqi            
Eng. Saifur Rehman Halimi     3rd Floor, Flat 59       
Afghan Information Bureau     New Golden Market        
35-10 Farrington, Flushing    P.O. Box 7538            
New York 11354, U.S.A.        Dubi, U.E.A.             
Tel. 718-961 7663             Tel. 283 136             
Mohammad Shakir               Qasim Hemat              
P.O. Box 47139                Bureau D’informations    
Kuwait                        1040 Bruxelles, Belgique 
Tel. 3612683                  Tel. 02-735 5011         
Fazul-ur-Rehman               Eng. Mir Azam Afghani    
P.O. Box 10238                P.O. Box 15271           
Madina, Saudi Arabia          Al-Ain, U.E.A.           
Tel. 573 4732                 Tel. 655744              
A.
Sayed Abdullah Street No 30 Ryadh, Saudi Arabia Tel. 463 1543
Kabir Akhtari 15 rue due Progres 93230 Romainville Paris, France Tel. 4287 2308
Eng. Abdul Saboor Akhtari Information Buro der Afghanischen Mojahedin Theater Street 12 D-5300 Bonn 1 West Germany Tel. 0228-693061-2
The Mujahideen Monthly
4
November 1988
 EDITORIAL
          CORDOVEZ’S SECULAR GOVERNMENT PAVES WAY FOR CIVIL WAR
    The Soviet Union from the very beginning of the Geneva talks, June 1982, has been using the U.N. platform for its diplomatic offensives against the Mujahideen under the cover of political dialogue. Mr. Diego Cordovez legitimized the presence of Russian troops and Kabul puppet regime by pushing Pakistan into the negotiation process, which plainly leaves the impression that Pakistan and the Kabul puppet regime are the two sides of the conflict. Yet in his shuttle diplomacy, Cordovez adroitly worked it out that the question of, 'whose army is scorching the Afghan soil?\ was never raised by him in any form. Even in the Geneva Accord he gave a guarantor’s role to the Soviets like that of the Americans and not that of naked invaders and aggressors.
    In his whole mission the Afghan Mujahideen were ignored completely. The rights of self-determination and self-expression have never crossed the Cordovez mind. Their leadership, their identity, their Jehad for a free Islamic Afghanistan, their voice, their views, their unity, their interim government, and their feeling have not only been rebuffed, but disgraced by Mr. Cordovez, when he suggests a coalition
 government with the Marxists, proposes ex-king Zahir Shah, prsumes government without Mujahideen and further crucially comments that the Mujahideen do not speak for the Afghan nation.
    Looking back at the history of the Cordovez mission, the Soviets have always scored diplomatic gains despite shedding blood of innocent people. Each time the headlines of his mission splashed in world newspapers and the news items of the
 bloodbath invariably remained buried under them.
    The outcome of the Cordovez mission is not less than a stab in the back for the Afghan nation, which has been threatening their socio-cultural and religious values. Even recently in his interview with the BBC he directly attacked the Mujahideen and their goals. While the Afghans are the victim of Russian atrocities, Mr. Cordovez does not give them the right to say 'yes' or 'no' to the hegemony of others. He has been trying to give an erroneous impression that the Afghans are perhaps turbulent, arrogant and unbending people who refuse proposals put forward by him, Kremlin and Najib.
The Mujahideen Monthly
5
November 1988
     Mr. Diego Cordovez himself is well aware of this fact that his suggestions about reconciliation, coalition and broad-based goernmetn etc are not dissimilar from the Moscow-Kabul ones. Besides, he workers tooth and nail for the implementation of Russian proposals to prepare ground for a secular government by mellowing and softening some of the Mujahideen under the U.N. umbrella. He seems to be unaware of the fact that all sacrifices and hardships of gallant Afghans are only menat to have a free Islamic government and not a secular regime as suggested by him to please Moscow.
    Glancing at the seven years mission of Cordovez, we feel that he fomented tension and differences between the Mujahideen's groups and refugees. Mr. Cordovez has been trying to accomplish what the Russian failed to do. This is a trap for the Mujahideen. Once he seduces one portion of the Mujahideen, they will have only two options: (a) either to join the Afghan Marxist army under the cover of
 'government of either coalition or reconciliation’, or (b) to go for a secular government under the pretext of Loi Jirgah, broad-based government, or any other label. This is what Cordovez indicated in an interview with the BBC’s correspondent in New York recently, saying that the Superpowers disapproved an Islamic government in Afghanistan. This move means nothing than paving way for a civil war to wash away the effectiveness of Jehad in the eyes of oppressed peoples of the world who are struggling for freedom, self-determination, terretorial integrity, and justice.
    The Cordovez mission, whether under the Superpowers pressure or the hope of Nobel Prize award, aims at obstructing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Such attempts from a U.N. platform will simply perpetuat bloodshed in Afghanistan, because the Afghan Mujahideen are resolved to brave all storms and obstructions to reach their final goal - the establishment of an Islamic government in their beloved country, Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen Monthly
6
November 1988
     Eng. Hekmatyar’s visit to Qandahar
    We left for Quetta a week before Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar, Amir Hczb-i-Islami Afghanistan, had reached there. We decided that we would be accompanying him not as reporters but as Mujahids in this risky and hazardous trip to Qandahar and Zabul provinces. We had already been told that Mr. Hekmatyar would be in Quetta by August 28 around 3:00 p.m. Upon his arrival we left for Ala Jirgah, across the Pak Afghan border in the Zabul province. After six hours's speedy drive we arrived at the HlA's militaiy brigade in Ala Jirgah, named Mubarez Ghound (Valiant Brigade). Despite
Commander Muzafaruddin Khan.
' Eng. Hekmatyar in a meeting with Mujahideen’s Commanders in Arghasoo of Mizani, subdistrict of Zabul province.
the night time we were received with open arms by the brigade commander, Lieutenant Muzafaruddin Khan’s men, who is known for his chivalry and total commitment to Jihad.
    After have dinner and tea I came out of the room to watch the starry sky and things surrounding the brigade. In the calm atmosphere the memory of a risky trip to khost (a border town in the Paktia province in October 1986) flashed across
 my mind when we had much difficulty in finding our way.
    The next, morning we were joined by representatives of 21 provinces to see for ourselves the passion of the Qandaharis for the establishment of a truely Islamic government We also had a chance to glance at the visual display of unity, unanmity and sense of cooperation which stripingly featured the Mujahideen of various groups. We stayed for two nights.
The Mujahideen Monthly
7
November 1988
 Entered second time.
       ffo
                                                                                               ^ w Shorawok/)
 o r •
     On   August     30th Lt
 Muzafaruddin Khan was chosen to head a concoy of around 22 landcruisers and pick up destined for the Marouf district in the Qandahar province On our way we stopped at each headquarters of the Mujahideen. Each group welcomed their leader,    Eng.     Gulbudin
 Hekmatyar, and his companions and then accompanied him to
 the next front There he had long meetings with the commanders and open discussions with the Mujahideen,
     From there several vehicles were added to our convoy and we left for the Attaghar district in the Zabul province We stopped for night at Ashraf Khil village, where the Mujahideen and commanders of all groups had a
                Ai^hasoo’s hills long sitting with Hekmatyar, discussing threadbare all aspects of the Jehad The leader gave them guidlines and instructions peculiar to the situation facing them
                                                                                                              The next morning we left for
The Mujahideen Monthly
8
November 1988
 Booties captured from Kabul regime in Takhta Pul district of Qandahar.
 the Shinkai district where Hekmatyar gave this tiding to the freedom fighters that their goal of the liberation of Afghanistan was not for off
     After two days Mr Hekmatyar met a Joint Council of Mujahideen near Qalat and it was decided that a joint offensive should be launched against Qalat, the provincial headquarters of Zabul Later when we came back to Quetta Sayed Hashim, General Commander of the Joint Council of Mujahideen, informed Mr.
 Hekmatyar that the Zabul governor was begging for a sale passage to Qandahar. The government condition was that the troops would only take their tanks and leave everything to the Mujahideen including artillery, light and heavy machineguns, ammunitions, clothes and food
    Mr. Hekmatyar sent a special message to Sayed Hashim. saying that the government employees and the army should take advantage of the Mujahideen's amnesty. They (the Najib men) should hand over everything to the
Mujahideen and join them in the Jehad against the Russians. Mr Hekmatyar insisted in his order that under no condition the Zabul army should be allowed to reinforce Qandahar and fight the Mujahideen there
    On 5th Sept, we left for Mizani subdistrict of the Zabul province where we stayed for a night at the Arghasoo village The elders. Mujahideen, the commanders of nearby districts greeted the party. Mr. Hekmatyar addressed the crowed and advised them, to strengthen their unity and
Eng.Hekmatyar with religious scholars and juridicial council of Arghandab district.
The Mujahideen Monthly                                    November 1988
Hekmatyar with Commander Chat Akhiindzada in Shawali Kot district. The gallant ness of Chat is that Iwing paralysed from his legs, he commands 500 armed Mujahideen.
 mobilise all their resources for the establishment of an Islamic government in their motherland.
     We made it to see four districts and subdistricts of Zabul province and had been to each strongholds of Mujahideen in these areas
     The next day we proceeded to Shah Wali Kot district of Qandahar where commander Chat Akhundzada was based. Mr Hekmatyar addressed a
 crowd there and threw lights on the Jehad situation. He told them that an international plot had been hatched to obstruct the achievement of their cherished goal but the Mujahideen should put up a stiff resistance to the filibusters.
     Later in the day we left for the Arghandab district and on
 our way we stopped at Commander          Assadullah'o
 Strongholds. We also visited Tabain, Khisrow, Babal We had
  stayed for two nights with Assadullah in the Arghandab district. Depite the fact that several villages had been razed to ground and not a single wall could found intact. The Mujahideen looked in high spirits and their goal-oriented will was undamaged.
     On 9th Sept the convoy • moved towards the Panjwai district There we stayed for the night and in the morning visited the Mujahideen's headquarters based at Pashmool and Talkan • During our stay in Panjwai several meeting were held at which the Mujahideen displayed their matchless courage and determination to fight against the Russians and their puppets.
                                                                                                     On 10th Sept, we entered Dand district and then Mahalajat just one mile from the Qandahar
          Cont. on Page 27
The Mujahideen Monthly
10
November 1988
          IUAM CONSIDERING RUSSIAN MOVE FOR DIRECT TALKS
                                                             By Ghani Jafar
     The Supreme Council of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen {IUAM) is considering soundings received from the Soviet Union that it is willing to enter into direct talks with the Peshawar-based seven party alliance to the exclusion . of the Kabul administration. Engineer Gulbadin Hikmatyar disclosed this to ‘The Pakistan Times’ in the course of an
exclusive hourlong interx’iew in Peshawar,
     The leader of the Hizb-lslami Afghanistan said that no decision in this regard had yet been taken by the IUAM Supreme Council He expressed his confidence that the Soviets would ultimately concede "the reality” that any format of negotiations which includes the Kabul administration and does
 not have the Mujahideen as a “direct and principal party", remains ineffective in resolving the Afghan issue.
      He said it was his understanding that any sort of parleys on Afghanistan which had the Kabul regime as a party, would "deepen the crisis". "Unless Moscow washes its hands of the Kabul regime, this kind of dialogue will be useless," he aded.
      Mr. Gulbadin Hikmatyar said that if Moscow persisted in the involvement of the Najib regime in any negotiations on Afghanistan, the current crisis would not be abate. He further said that it was immaterial if such a dialogue involving the Kabul regime was held between the four "socalled signatories" to the Geneva Accord, or with any other composition.
      He felt that the Pakistan Foreign Office taken a "very appropriate" decision in rejecting the proposal made last month by Mr. Abdul Wakil, Foreign Minister of the Kabul regime, for the convening of a meeting of Foreign Ministers of the four signatory countries to the Geneva Accord to discuss the Accords implementation.
    When Mr. Hikmatyar's attention was drawn to proposal made by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Mr. Secretary-General for him to call a meeting of the five permanent members of the U N. Security Council, together with Pakistan and the Kabul administration, the Mujahideen leader reiterated his position that “any negotiations that involved the Kabul regime would be fruitless".
    He recalled that even at the
  The Mujahideen Monthly
11
November 1988
 time of the initiation of the Geneva talks on Afghanistan, the Mujahideen leaders had expressed the same position.
     The Hizb-i-lslami leader stated that the best form of dialogue on Afghanistan would be that of one between the Afghan Mujahideen and the Soviets. "We have made it clear time and again that Pakistan should not participate in such a dialogue (which includes the Kabul regime), particularly when it acts as a principal party to such talks," he said.
     Mr Hikmatyar said that any negotiations which did not include the Mujahideen as a direct and principal party, would fail. "We have been tipped that even the Soviets are prepared for a dialogue which would exclude the Kabul regime and include th Mujahideen. In this regard we have received a proposal which we have discussed in the Supreme Council of the IUAM, but have not made a decision (on it) yet," he revealed.
      He added "My understanding is that the Soviets will ultimately councede this fact and will ultimately concede this fact and will ultimately get ready for such a dialogue with the Mujahideen. In case they really want a solution, they will have no choice but to talk with the Mujahideen."
     The Mujahideen leader said that the late President Zia-ul-Haq truly represented the wishes of Pakistanis with regard to Afghanistan. President Zia-ul-Haq, he said, had adopted his Afghan policy on the basis of these popular aspirations of Pakistanis.
     Clarifying a statement of his
 as reported in an Islamabad daily on Sunday, Mr Hikmatyar said that he had stated that "whosoever wins the (forthcoming) elections in Pakistan would pursue this popular policy". Any patriotic leader, he said, would pursue such a policy, “which I see very much in the national interest of Pakistan. He added that he, therefore, had no worries about the policy of such patriotic persons.
     Mr. Hikmatyar said he did not believe that "the Muslim nation of Pakistan” would vote those "who oppose the Jihad in Afghanistan or intend to alter the present policy".
     While discussing reports of current Soviet efforts to put together a ruling coalition under former King Zahir Shah so as to include representatives of the Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA), leaders of the Mujahideen factions other than the fundamentalist' groups, and some of the local field commanders inside Afghanistan,
Mr Hikmatyar maintained that the Soviets had no choice but to concede the realities in reaching an understanding with "the major political forces"
    If the Soviets, he said, could have put up with Zahir Shah in the first place, they would not have removed him. "Even if they could tolerate people like Daud, they would not have toppled him like that" he said
    Mr. Hikmatyar said that the Soviets were doing their best to create discord and rift between "our nation". He added that if the Soviets could solve the Afghan problem through reaching an undestanding with some of the selective Afghan Mujahideen parties or with some of the commanders, they would have done so much earlier.
    He said that if one looked at the change of Soviet policy on Afghanistan from the time of Daud to that of Taraki and till Najib's time, together with their efforts at changing the present structure, it all showed that the Soviet priorities had changed

District headquarters of Arghandab.
The Mujahideen Monthly
12
November 1988
from a Communist to a non Communist regime in Afghanistan.
    "Ultimately, they will turn to concede the reality and accept the will of the people of Afghanistan," he added.
     All that the Soviets were doing with this delay in the inevitable change, Mr. Hikmatyar said, was that they were wasting time and allowing more blood to be shed. "As this graph of changes shows," he added, "they will ultimately surrender to the will of the people-they had better do it before it is too late”.
     The            Hizb-i-lslami
 afghanistan leader thought, however, that the Soviets would not delay their departure from Afghansitan. “On the contraiy, they will withdraw ahead of the (Feb. 15.1989) deadline".
     Considering the overall situation in terms of the Soviets “military defeat" and the "political
Mujahideen’s Commander’s of Panjwai district in a meeting .
     He mentioned that when he had read the Soviet Foreign Minister's statement threatening to delay the process of troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, he had addressed a Press conference in Quetta to state that any such delay was not possible. 'The next day, the Soviets denied that they had said such a thing," he said.
Arghandab town bombd by Russian aircraft.
 cost" incurred by them, he said, the Soviets were convinced that withdrawal was In their best interest. "Whenever I hear about the possibility of delay, I see it as an empty threat," he said, adding that the Soviets could frighten only those through such threats who were not aware of the real situation on the ground.
     He said that during his visit to Kandhar a few days ago, he had been to places barely a kilometer and a half from the airbase which was located in the
 city. "The Soviets, with all their might and forces, could not enter these areas in the past ten years. They launched numerous offensives to penetrate these areas but failed."
     Engineer Hikmatyar said that if there had been anyone else in place of the Soviets, he too would have realised by now that it was not possible to crush the resistance and to impose a government of one's own choice on Afghanistan.
     He said that the Soviet decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was not a rash decision on their part which could be altered. The decision, he said, had been taken by the Soviets in the light of their ten year experience in Afghanistan. “For this reason we say with certitude that they will not delay their departure," he added.
The Mujahideen Monthly
13
November 1988
IUAM REJECTS CONSENSUS
 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabani at a press conference.
     Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat e-lslami Afghanistan and current head of the IUAM, told journalists at a Press conference in Islamabad on Monday he had not yet found the opportunity to meet Sahebzada Yaqub Khan to discuss the latest proposal but "the Mujahideen are against all such arrangements that call for the inclusion of Communist elements in a future government in Kabul". Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan had told reporters on his return from New York earlier this month after attending the 43rd session of the General Assembly that the Soviet Union and Pakistan were planning to present a consensus resolution on Afghanistan in the Assembly’s next session.
     He had said that the resolution that calls for a broadbased government in Kabul was also supported by Pakistan's traditional allies.
     Prof. Rabbani, commenting on this proposal said: “We don't permit any government friendly or otherwise to decide the future of Afghanistan".
    He said the Mujahideen had already offered a general amnesty and were not ready to make any more concessions to the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul and their agents.
    The Jamiat chief claimed that Vorontsov, the new Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, was the architect of the so-called reconciliation programme of the Kabul regime. He said Vorontsov had been sent to Kabul to revive this programme and to save the PDPA regime from a total collapse.
    The Afghan leader, who has just returned from a five-week tour of this country, claimed that the Mujahideen had already
liberated the provinces of Paktika, Kunar, Takhar, Kunduz, and Bamian. Badakhshan, Bamian, Wardak and Qandhar have also been partially liberated.
    He told a reporter the Mujahideen would soon establish an interim government in these provinces but refused to give a date.
    Prof. Rabbani once again rejected the proposal to accept the former Afghan monarch, Zahir Shah, as the head of a broadbased government and said: “Zahir Shah has become a part of the history and he has no role to play in Afghanistan anymore".
    On Oct. 17 the seven-party Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM) has rejected the consensus resolution that Pakistan and the Soviet Union are to present before the November session of the U N. General Assembly for the creation of a hroad-based government in Kabul.
RESOLUTION

The Mujahideen Monthly
14
November 1988
    The IUAM chief said the Mujahideen would not accept the U.N. aid which was sent through the Kabul regime as they did not want to give any recognition to the Communist-backed government.
    He said if the U.N. wanted to distribute anything in Afghanistan it should contact the Mujahideen directly.
    Prof. Rabbani said he was receiving "green signals for direct talks between Mujahideen and the Soviets but time had not yet come to disclose the details".
    He said the release of the Soviet POWs in Mujahideen control depended on the future situation. A number of POWs, he claimed, were so happy with the Mujahideen that they did not want to go home.
    The Jamiat leader said he had asked his guerillas not to fire on the returning Soviet troops but if the Soviets tried to destroy the harvest or cause problems for the villagers, the Mujahideen would be compelled to retaliate.
    The IUAM chief said though the Mujahideen had declared a general amnesty but those who had committed heinous crime would not be excused. They would be dealt with in accordance with the principles of Islamic justice.
    Asked why did the IUAM failed to hold elections inside the Mujahideen controlled areas despite promises by its two former chiefs, Prof. Rabbani said: "We are fighting a war. There are countries that have dissolved their parliaments when faced with war. Elections inside
 Afghanistan will be held whenever time permits".
     He said he couldn’t give a date for the proposed elections but said that he was as committed to the holding of elections as his predecessors were.
     Prof. Rabbani admitted that there were some differences among the Mujahideen parties but they were of minor nature.
     He said he had gone to Afghanistan to make the commanders more aware of the political. military and administrative situation there. He said he had asked the commanders to avoid residential areas while fighting against the Kabul troops and to make sure that the civilians were not hurt
     The Mujahideen, he said, should try to give a sense of security to the people of Afghanistan and restore peace in the country.
     Prof. Rabbani said the GOO million dollar aid from Moscow was neglitible compared to the destruction they had caused in
 Afghanistan.
     Prof. Burhanuddin said the attacks on central areas by Mujahideen also showed their dominance against the enemy.
     He said the Mujahideen had been directed to concentrate on military targets only and avoid hitting residential areas. He said, the recent attacks on such places in the Kabul city were launched by the Kabul regime itself and their allies and added the Mujahideen could not think of killing the innocent citizens.
     He said, though Afghanistan was confronted with a military problem on account of the Soviet invasion, the Mujahideen were ready to negotiate with the Russians in an attemp to seek a political solution to the issue He urged the Soviets to pull out of Afghanistan as soon as possible in their own interest, otherwise it would lead to more bloodshed and misery in that country.
     He said that any attempt by the foreign forces to prolong the rule of discredited regime in Kabul would result in further trouble and strife in the wartorn country.
     He said after liberation the Mujahideen would set up an Islamic, independent and neutral government In Afghanistan. He said "we will not let anybody establish military bases in our country to be used against anyother state". He said despite the invasion committed by the Russians against our country we would try to have friendly relations with the Soviets on the condition that they did not interfere in our affairs. Prof. Rabbani said India had been pursuing a wrong policy on the Afghanistan issue “but we would like to have cordial relations with it if that country changed its present attitude".
     The Afghan Mujahideen leader praised late President General Mohammad Ziaul Haq and the people of Pakistan for their support to the people of Afghanistan In their hour of need.
     He said 'we also thank all the friendly states for extending us valuable help in this crisis
The Mujahideen Monthly
15
November 1988
          U.N. ASSEMBLY TAKES UP AFGHAN ISSUE ON NOV. 3
      The U N. General Assembly will take up the Afghanistan question on Nov. 3, a U.N. spokesman announced •
      But unlike previous years, there will be no debate this time. Instead the 159-member Assembly will adopt a consensus resolution, which has been prepared by Pakistan in consultation with the Soviet Union.
      Officials said the draft will be ntroduced in the Assembly by 'he Assembly president. Dante Caputo of Argentina.
      The text, which was unanimously endorsed by the Islamic Foreign Minister Conference on Sept. 30. calls for an intra Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
      It emphasises that such a government ensures the widest support and immediate participation of all segments of the Afghan people, and asks Secretary-General Javier Perez De Cuellar to bring about an early settlement in Afghanistan in accordance with the Geneva Accords, signed on April 14.
     The resolution notes the continuing process of withdrawal of the foreign troops and hopes it would be complete on schedule.
     It calls on all parties to create conditions of peace and normalcy which would enable millions of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran to return voluntarily to their homeland.
     The text reaffirms the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government free from outside intervention and for preserving the nonaligned character of Afghanistan.
     The Pakistan U.N. Ambassador, S. Shah Nawaz, hosted a luncheon for the representatives of 46 Islamic and other nonaligned countries which have been sponsoring the resolution on Afghanistan every year since the 1979 Soviet military intervention. The ambassador profusely thanked them for their consistent support to the Afghan cause that has paved the way for a settlement
 of the problem under the U.N. auspices.
                                                                                               16
Tbn Mujahideen Monthly
  MUJAHIDEEN SOON HOLD ELECTIONS
     The Mujahideen will soon form an elected Shora (council) to replace the present regime in Kabul, said HIA Leader.
     Elections will be held within Afghanistan and among 3-million refugees in Pakistan, said Eng. Gulbudin Hekmatyar.
     The election commission will decide if women too can vote, he told a news conference.
     Mr. Hekmatyar was giving the conference in the light of his recent visit of 100 miles into Qandahar and Zabul province. He said the had talked to many local commanders of all the parties about the future of Aghanistan.
     He vehemently rejected the latest proposal of UN special enevoy Diego Cordovez about a government of 30 neutral figures'
     The proposal does not provide for elections or any other way of reference to the opinion of the Afghan people. It does not include the Mujahideen.
     "Who says the Afghans do not want elections but want a Loi Jirgah (grand Assembly)?*, he asked.
    'We say this loudly that we do no want a Loi Jirgah and will never accept an impartial government. This is not my words and decision. This is the decision of our whole nation", he added
       November 1988
    He said that Mujahideen could easily capture the beleagured city of Qandahar. "But they do not want to repeat the tragedy of Kunduz", he told.
     The decision was made to avoid high civilian casualties. "Kabul too is bound to fall to the Mujahideen but at the expense of lesser civilian casualties.”
    “We have always tried that the non-combatant people may not be hurt," Hekmatyar said. “But we have no other alternative for exerting more pressure on military targets."
     CORDOVEZ HAS NO RIGHT TO INTERFERE
     On Oct. 24, Professor Burhanudeen Rabbani, current Chairman of the seven-party Afghan alliance of Afghan Mujahideen has taken exception to the recent statements of UN mediator on Afghanisatn, Mr. Diego Cordovez. He has described them as unwarranted and uncalled for and likely to damage his own reputation and that of the World Body.
     In a message sent to the UN Secretary-General Mr. Perez de Cuellar the IUAM Chairman while appreciating his efforts to bring peace and security in the world, drew his attention towards recent statements of his
personal representative on the Afghanistan issue which were against his own impartiality and neutrality of the United Nations.
    He said Mr. Cordovez "allows himself to make unwarranted and uncalled for remarks and to pass inaccurate and inappropriate judgement." He also allows himself to interference in the domestic affairs of Afghanistan by requesting certain individuals to form - or help to form - the future government of Afghanistan.
    Prof. Rabbani also said that Mr Cordovez’s attack on the IUAM and on the Mujahideen
 organisations which had fought against an invading superpower and had forced it to leave their country was very unfortunate. “We wonder how Mr. Cordovez who is an experienced diplomat can say things that are far from diplomatic etiquette", he said in his message. "We also wonder how Mr. Cordovez gives himself the right to interfere in our affairs while he himself has stated that only the Afghans can decide their future", he added.
    The Mujahideen leader requested Mr. Cuellar to advise Mr. Cordovez to avoid making such statements in the future because it could not only damage his own reputation but would also be harmful to the prestige of the UN.
    In his message he said "we know that Afghanistan is passing through a critical and historical stage. Afghan people fully realise the historical responsibility. Determination of our future is only the right of our people. A nation which could force a superpower out of its land can certainly establish a strong government after liberation. Work for reconstruction of its country, makes the country a centre of peace and security in the regin and in the world, and make positive contribution to the development of humanity."
The Mujahideen Monthly
17
November 1988
                     HEKMATYAR
                       LAUDS
                     GORBACHEV
                      DECISION
by Rafiq Afghan
FALL OF SIMA BlILDAK
    General          Secretary
Gorbachev's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was wise and just, said Eng. Hekmatyar at a press conference in Peshawar.
    However, he said this should have been done immediately when Mr. Gorbachev had come to power. Hundreds and thousands of people have died since then. Eng. Hekmatyar said the Mujahideen would try to capture the places to be evcuated by the Soviets before winter.
    Asked if the Mujahideen were rocketing cities, the Hezb-i-Islami Amir said that they were much concerned about human lives. Had it not been so, most of the cities would have been captured by this time. "We have issued strict orders to the Mujahideen to refrain from hitting the civilian targets ", he said.
    I am standing on the top hill security post of Spin Buldak garrison surrounded by plain valley The hill is of strategic importance as the few troops stationed at the security post can forecast the attack from any side.
    Spin Buldak, a main town and border cantonment of
southern Afghanistan is 13 kilometre away from Pak-Afghan border. Both the town and the cantonment are chained by security posts where the Kabul troops were stationed under the command of Asmatullah Mulsim, now he is called Asmatullah Tasleem" (defeated). Spin Buldak is the area of Noorzai and Achakzai tribes who are
    “My advice to Najib is to either leave the county or surrender to the Mujahideen", he added. He told that those who voluntarily join the Mujahideen will enjoy full protection and support of the Mujahideen. Adding that those who had already surrendered to the Mujahideen were under full protection
    No party could come into power in Afghanistan without the support or participation of H I.A., he declared.
    Commenting on Arman Hammar shuttling between Islamabad, kabul and Moscow, he said that would be fruitless unless it was between Mujahideen and Moscow.
Commander Pahalawan Nick Mohammad on the right who led the group to enter the Spin Buldak garrison. Building at the background is part of the Spin Buldak garrison.
The Mujahideen Monthly
18
November 1988
<a>   Security post,
<l)>   Spin Buldak garrison,
<e)    Spin Buldak town.
 residing on both sides of the border The tribals have traditional enemity since six decades, but Afghan Jehad has shattered the rifts by converting them on the basis of Islam and anti Islam The major force of Noorzai and Achakzai has joined the ranks of Mujahideen.
     Spin Buldak having the population of 4,000 is the gateway of Qandahar where anti Pakistan elements were bribed and instigated for not only attacking the Pakistan border but carrying out subversive activities in Baluchistan and Sind as well. The Mujahideen have seized several documents from Spin Buldak which indicate about the subversive network and the persons who were engaged in Pakistan. Spin Buldak was strong Soviet base on Pak-Afghan border, the capturing of which utmost necessary after signing Geneva accord
     The resistance sources had
 received informations about the separation of Afghanistan, repatriation of deposed Zahir Shah and to create rifts among the Mujahideen's organizations According to Soviet plan, the Kabul malitia led by Asmatullah 'Tasleem" was to lay arms before the so-called Mujahideen who afterwards emerge the Kabul malitia and hand over the administration of Spin Buldak to Asmatullah. The plan was further aimed at to close the Mujahideen routes by declaring Spin Buldak as liberated area.
     During the second phase of Soviet drama the Qandahar's Governor was meant for handing over the city to the socalled Mujahideen and Tasleem’s malitia. By this way, the invading Soviet forces wanted to vacume the pressure of the Mujahideen as saying that the "Mujahideen" are controlling the Qandahar city The final stage of this plan was to the Qandahar city. The final stage of this plan was to "inagugrate the session of Loi Jirga" in which pro Zahir Shah elements were to participate as
representatives of Afghan nation The "Loi Jirga" had to decide the return of Zahir Shah and appoint him as monarch of Afghanistan. This was a complete conspiracy against the interim government formed by the Seven Party Alliance. According to reliable sources the British intelligence department MI-5 was also active in this plan.
     The Mujahideen associated with Seven Party Alliance held the meeting to review the Soviet design After long discussion the military command and Majlis-e-Shoora approved Spin Buldak operation. The military command was consisted of the Mujahideen associated with Hizbe Islami Afghanistan, Jamiate Islami, Ittehade Islami and Hizbe Islami (Younas Khalis) It was decided that first the security posts around Spin Buldak will be wiped out and afterwards Tasleem malitia headquarter will be targetted which ultimately would lead to
The Mujahideen Monthly
19
November 1988
 the complete siege of Spin Buldak garrison
     About 1450 Mujahideen started Spin Buldak clean up operation by attacking the security post during the second week of July last After 22 days struggle the Mujahideen destroyed nine tanks, ten trucks and three radar installations besides killing of 200 troops including Kabul malitia. In the operation 32 Mujahids lost their lives and 73 other injured. The first phase of the operation completed by severely damaging the security posts and forcing the Kabul troops for
 confining themselves to the garrison After ten days break the Mujahideen revised their strategy and constructed new bunkers besides sufficient supplies to meet the new offensive. During this period the Kabul administration tried to mount pressure on the Mujahideen who were determined for capturing Spin Buldak
     It was August 5, when the Mujahideen were narrowing the security belt surrounding the the Spin Buldak garrison from three sides The Kabul administration had established strong base on the hill top In the back side of Spin Buldak fort where long range heavy 130-MM guns were installed The target of the Mujahideen was malitia headquarter which hindered the siege of Spin Buldak Consentrating on Spin Buldak the Mujahideen were able to take positions near malitia headquarter on the evening of August 8. Just before the dawn next morning the Mujahideen prayed to Allah Almighty for victory for Shahadat (Martyrdom) and attacked the malitia headquarter. After three hours fierce fighting the Mujahideen were able in capturing the headquarter where the enemy fled away leaving behind several dead bodies and lot of ammunition Now the Mujahideen route was safe till the security posts of Hood, five kilometre west of captured
 malitia headquarter. The Mujahideen          commanders
 without waisting the time advanced towards Hood and reached the mountain without suffering any loss. On August 9, the Mujahideen wiped out a strong base of Kabul regime but they wore facing stiff resistance from the security posts on the right side of Qandahar highway.
    The Mujahideen hit the security posts by rockets and mortars but they were not able to capture the post which were surrounded by rocks, At last the Mujahideen thrashed the enemy after attacking from other side and forced the Kabul troops for surrender.
    They seized heavy arms and captured several troops. Now Spin Buldak garrison was under complete siege of Mujahideen, who were controlling the Qandahar highway upto Takhta Pul. a Soviet garrison, 30 kilometres from Spin Buldak. All the routes leading towards Spin Buldak were closed confining
Militia headquartes of Esmat Muslim, 20 Km. from pakistan border. Now under the control of Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen Monthly
20
November 1988
 the Kabul troops in the cantonment. They had huge quantity of supplies and fdod stuff, but they lost the morale.
     After having the information about the encirclment of Spin Buldak, the puppet regime sent reinforcement consisted of twenty tanks. The Mujahideen intercepted the convoy and force it for retreat. The Mujahideen strategy was to meet the enemy in the field anticipating maximum losses and reducing the duration of attack.
     After three weeks state of siege, the Kabul troops decided to break the encirclment. They send two tanks as advance party' out of which one was hit by the Mujahideen and the other moved back towards Spin Buldak. On the other hand the Mujahideen also raided the reinforcement, which after losing two tanks, fled away towards Takhta Pul.
     The Kabul troops confined in the garrison were calling for help by sending wireless messages, but Qandahar were unable to provide them with any help. Perhaps puppet regime was mentally prepared to accept the fall of Spin Buldak
     The supreme command of Mujahideen decided to give final blow to the enemy and directed the local commanders about the strategy.
     It was the morning of Sept 9, when Mujahideen were narrowing the siege from all sides. As they were advancing close to the garrison, the firing on both side become heavior The Hezb-i-lslami Commanders Eng. Abdul Wadood, . Abdul Ahad and Pahlwan Nick
Mohammad Khan who were leading the Mujahideen, entered in muddy fort of the garrison, hording on a jeep along with two campanions Qari Ahmadullah and Zahir Khan
    They stormed the main gate of the cantonment and took positions. All of a sudden a cantingent of Kabul troops fired on the jeep, in response to which the Mujahideen launched rockets and mortars. After killing several Kabul troops, Qari Ahmadullah Khan and Zahir Khan martyred as they were hit by gun fire In this situation
commander Abdul Ahad and Pahlawan Nick Mohammad Khan stricked at the concrete bunkers, while several Mujahideen enter in the fort climbing on the walls. After sacrifying 76 losses and injuring to 150 during the encounter the Mujahideen at last conquered the Spin Buldak garrison at 11.00 a m. on Sept. 9. The Mujahideen captured three tanks, four armoured vehicles and eighteen trucks. The fall of Spin buldak is not merely capturing of a military cantonment, rather it was demoblising of subversive network working in Pakistan.
The wreckage or a British tank destroyed by Afghans in 1919 in the jehad against British and below is a Hussian tank captured by Mujahideen on Sept. 9.
The Mujahideen Monthly
21
November 1988
 THE
 FALL
 OF=
 PAKTIKA
       Paktika is one of the most strategic southern province of Afghanistan, which is bo'dering Pakistan. Not now but throughout the history this part of the country was one of the three important routes in the south where all movements to Kabul and Delhi pass always safely. This route which known for Urgoon the border town of Paktika has two branches which reaches Wana and Miran Shah in Pakistan. The zig zag and deep valleys give full security to convoys and people.
       Even in the past nine years of Jehad against the Russians, no Mujahideen convoy has been ambushed so far and whenever the refugees on their way to Pakistan have always founded themselves safe, when they entered Paktika. The sole reason is that Mujahideen of this province were fully in control of government activities.
       To the surprise of Kabul puppet regime that Paktika is the
Mohammad Khalid I'aroocp, Amir jehad Paktika. member of the Central Council of H.I.A, member of Provincial Council for Party Affairs, and member of .Joint Council of Jehad comprising from the seven-party Alliance.
only province out of 29 where both KHAD (now WAD) and KGB failed to recruit local Paktikans either in the army or militia. People in any cost were not ready           to spy on  the
Mujahideen's movement to the government In these nine year even a single incident of attack on Mujahideen convoy has not been reported so far.
    Government and Russian with all their might were able to keep eight bases until recently which are Sharana-the capital, Urgoon, Zama, Wazi Khaw, Katwaz, Khyar Kot Muta Khan and Patana. All of them were runover within a month of after two months intensive fighting throughout the province.
The Mujahideen Monthly
22
November 1988

w
HEtfi
  | r
Wm
Shahid Lieutenant Ghafar, who was martyred on Oct. 1st in the battle for Sharana, was one of the outstanding commanders of H.I.A.
    According to Mohammad Khalid Farooqi, Amir Jehad Paktika, that the fall of the province began with the tookover of Wazi Khaw district and Khyar Kot brigade. Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan Commander of Katawaz. Dr. Alam Shah with the co-operation and coordination of Mujahideen of the other parties took full control of the government bases on the third week of September.
    During the operation one helicopter gunship while it was on its bombing mission was shot down by Mujahideen. One tank, two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs), two Dashaka, and several mortars and cannons of different range and large number various kind of rifles with several ammunition depots were seized by Mujahideen.
    Several ammunition depots of some security posts were blown up by Russian bombing when the government found that they would be about to runover by the Mujahideen. The head of Katawaz district and chief of KHAD were arrested with more than 150 soldiers and officers. The brigade command with some of his loyal officers were killed during the fighting.
    Commander Khalid Farooqi told that in the last week of Sept. While fight for Urgoon and Zama was on its peak, Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan under the command of Qazi Rais. Commander             Mujahid,
Commander Mohammadyar, Zabit Ghafar. Commander Akhroot, and Zabit Abdullah Jan with Mujahideen of other parties increased their operations to capture the capital and wipe out the surrounding 13 security posts.
    On Oct. 1st Mujahideen successfully took full control of the Sharana and wiped out all 13 posts. The unchallengeable commander of Hezb-l-lslami Afghanistan, Zabit Ghafar (lieutenant) with dozen of other Mujahideen were martyred in the fighting. Mujahideen were able to seize 3,500 different type of rifles, five 76mm cannons, 15 APCs, 85 army trucks, 15 mortars—1 07mm, 20 Zeaguak, two 82mm cannons, numerous RPG-7s, two wireless unit of R-118, 50 portable wireless units, one mobile hospital, one helicopter with miner technical
%
faults, and large quantity of ammunition, food and clothes.
    Deputy Governor, KHAD’s Chief, and several dozens of officers with soldiers were arrested. While 45 soldiers and post commanders were killed. The Governor, Colonel Abdul Wahab with 50 of his commandos were able to make it safely to Muta Khan subdistrict with fear and hazardous escape. From there they were flown to Kabul.
    Commander Khalid Farooqi added that while the fight for
The Mujahideen Monthly
23
November 1988
 Sharana was on the victorious point, Mujahideen of Goomal and Urgoon under his command with Mujahideen of other parties jointly tookover four posts in the Zama area on Oct. 1st. In the attack one tank, two APCs, five army trucks, two 76mm cannons, six 107mm mortars, 10 heavy machineguns, eight ammunition depots were seized by Mujahideen. Twenty army officers, 130 soldiers were captured. In the attack 25 Mujahideen were seriously wounded.
     One of the natorious officer, Lieutenant Jan Mohammad, who pretended to be soldier escaped during night, but he was captured near Kolalgo area and brought back to Khalid’s headquarters * for full interrogation.
     On the 3rd Oct. Muta Khan subdistrict came under full control of Mujahideen where 85 soldiers surrended to the Mujahideen with their arms and ammunton. Large quantity of arms and ammunton, artillery were seized by Mujahideen.
     Commander Farooqi told that after Muta Khan Urgoon was the only place left under the government control. After four days of heavy fight by all Mujahideen parties Urgoon was ranover on Oct. 7 on the loss of 15 martyres and 25 wounded. Deputy to Farooqi, Commander Sahibddin was seriously wound on anti-personnel mine during the fighting.
     Some 800 militia of Wazir tribe of Pakistan’s tribal area and Afghan officers and soldiers under the command of Militia commander Takar escaped to Muta Khan subdistrict via Danah
valley, being unaware of that the Muta Khan was already under the control of Mujahideen At dawn the escapees were incircled by Mujahideen of Sarawaza, Sharana and Muta Khan and fierce fight took place between the Mujahideen and Takar's men near Srawaza. More than 150 militiamen, soldiers, officers, including Militia commander Takar were killed and the rest were arrested
     Mohammad Umer Chief of Khad who was arrested offered 145      million        Afghan
(US$70,000.00) to a Mujahideen group to release him and take him to Gardiz, but the offer was rejected and he has been sent to the Mujahideen base in Muta Khan.
     In Urgoon about 100 soldiers and officers were killed and some 500 were arrested.
 The Mujahideen were able to seize eight tanks, 11 APCs, 75 trucks, one jeep with wireless unit, six 122mm cannons, 30 mid-range mortars, seven 76mm cannons, 1,500 different type of rifles, 100,000 sacks of flour--100 kilos each, and large quantity of ammunition and clothes.
     Commander Khalid Farooqi added that his province is now under full control of Mujahideen and all Mujahideen’s commanders of different parties are of the view that the interim government can easily be established in their province. He said that very soon a joint statement of all the commanders would be sent to the Jehad’s leadership in Peshawar about the government. He disclosed that the rehabilitation and reconstruction have been started in the province by people.
 Trucks captured
 by Miyahideen on
       Sept. 9
The Mujahideen Monthly
24
November 1988
AN OPEN LETTER
i—
TO GORBACHEV
    Vladimir Ramchuk, 20, from Brozna in the Ukraine, defected from the Soviet army in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, on December 19, 1985. Taking his arms and ammunition he surrendered to the local commander of the Hezb-e Islam i whose name and location he had heard from Afghan army officers. He does not wish to return to his         Russian-occupied
 Ukraine, and got political
asylum in the U.S.A.
    While still at a technical school in Brozna, Ramchuk was conscripted by a special army team which regularly visits colleges and high schools. He was whisked off to Volga by the army recruiting officers the day he was suddenly summnoned to the principal's office in March 1985. After eight months' training, with special emphasis on
 meterology, he was airlifted first to Kabul and then to Jalalabad. His father, a driver, and mother, a worker in a chemical laboratory, were not informed that Ramchuk was being taken into the army for service in Afghanistna. All he himself was told-as indeed all the other Soviet soldiers-was that he would be fighting Americans, Pakistanis and Iranians in Afghanistan.
r
                                   RESPECTED
                                    MIKHAIL
                                  GORBACHEV
   I heard about a great miracle which happened in the country of ’locked doors' and legalized lawlessness, that is openness’ (glasnost). There are rumours that apparently it has become possible there [in that country] to talk about everything and everybody. All kinds of problems are now being decided and subsequently publicised.
Therefore, I have decided to share some of my problems with you, as I am wholeheartedly concerned with them. As I am a single person, I will explain myself in a simple language, I trust you will not judge me too
    Vcaa a J/a*oaji C epee* a
 /7pcc./ittiuo* t                     oyauterr H c. r/to~e
 jOMroB a y3arer*rPOA f f            rr - o rj/oc aocta.
       *oj*t rorrr. tryjio c*/ non op at* ran c to sic ,<ro/uro CSCact r Lt      f?tooexc/rt/ acwrAt crarA pc tear* cooct/r.
 J-’a.u/m) ajr /jojt jn*T*cM c Boaa c   /}/ee&ptaoaa -
 Coj/m/o yr jorrAaror oua mcaj, £ oocretAtry AtjeoperA /1/oocroZ, TO rJ'XiraT^ PCrJLr Ha *3*/r, npocTor, J}*/y*
 *<. re -T/o o.-o, (}r/cors.e. n»/ h°h- upt ohu
   P OAMOA A3 Caere pttetA yUOMtA/pu Bt, ror~TO OS fejtro ■
 A AC Terre, H 03 A « & * retro 3 o roeseUec A paMou* foB tip AAA D*/ ao BAcmaTtptcTBc a Ae ft a tToro ayit e> m-AMOAO roeyxaperao aaoo ToaArAy Pcpr/oB, oApoAcrot aa-peprerprlAa ae C~eo tc. rot* non out a CoBc.rc.roro Co/o-
 30.
   & StSTMOCTt Mo*o Ca/UoToM, IJ/DArOAAstoc* aac /roe/T* e/reprcBMo BaacT* rmOAC/lorTAAC coAOAcrA AS Coro • 9a. Apabojapa or/*/ r /otrrroc aopoacaaac. »u*aaac eocnproator/r^ c om/map/a Ay a rpr.p. Tier, crapa
 r*/T* pro corent *
   Tier sure, poBopoc* Mr* y Super* xpyruc    r
   Me.trra: rmjoTorrct a ryro A/rro, /TPAcrroceoPr* a Ae/oe mu*,* Cap* ota Bet pa 3 rrc, //a aPCpa op a a n f>A 3rote a* ort mPrup/o*HAA- Moj/iuc* "For ofej/tan tefueftt * To. , Jab mmforoM* A Ay ct At* AC* OS *
 A CAPA a »tak put Arerr r /uctu r my At X A trotytATAA
 puc_, Myra a c. o«w/0, aa/oa... TP.ro. mo tr/f pro a TcPtra jerc-TPATCPtMo » nppxrct Arrcrpc/AAAt xtprymB*/ 9 to cp*jLo*mTcp*M0t BACA A TCP ter So'A sr/eoAcru*
   Kam re /to a a mot* /tpa yrr/A re iry mcto/orro a.
The Mujahideen Monthly
25
November 1988
 severely. These are my problems.
     In one of your speeches you once referred to Afghanistan as a bleeding wound'. You also talked about the interference in the affairs of this sovereign State by foreign powers, about the designs of imperialism and about the brotherly help of the Soviet Union.
     In my duties as a soldier, I had the opportunity to see, almost every day, transport aricraft from the Soviet Union They were bringing heavily sealed boxes with army supplies, ammunition and so on This then was our help
     Later. I had the opportunity to see other boxes and parcels: cardboard ones and paper ones, plastic ones and wooden ones. They were all different, but they had one common factor, the inscription ‘For Afghan Refugees' These boxes and bags carried medicines, rice, flour, sugar, oil, and so on. The senders were, indeed, foreign powers. This presumably was the ’interference’ and designs' you mentioned.
      How would you have us interpret this story? It doesn’t quite add up, does it?
      Here is another contradiction: during political education courses we were told how the dushman were, apparently, corrupt, that there was only a handful of them, that ali their weapons were American, French, or from parctically every country on
  earth - and almost from the moon.
                                                                                                              When I ended up in Afghaistan, I learned from my Cont. on Page 31
                               »ui,m * amw . a '-3 //e/QM jomwo c-tc*ad r*/T4 /tonywmercM. tfjlu e. ml e. Htt noj«T3an»Tn0* how roBopHju*i mt e>
'AYtMtlOH*'     OHM WOA, A /OOAO/M MM <  **TO ropt-Tett
  Hr, vro epywe ynit* 8ci awepw*aHCKO» c^pawt*y3-*oe h ... bob ia,*m co at*)11    WMjoa m wyT*-ru we.
  e. J!y MW.
    AonaC B f&rakttcratY yswcrj rr or cW/Ot***)1, roBcrfiM-
          OT ot£ HtwepoB , WTO no A eowrpoAeW y roper**' now u tow M/o /LS? T-cppw Top MM cTpa ~ hw. { nee.rna*‘ coJSatc. war baoct* ro/retro ATopo-BQXjia w to we Bo Bee*' "Yopoujtt^ropc.rwa? - Jtf-tiaro. Xerjia tee f m* sep Tw/ooBayr, yftmicn t wem-tiw     hMwtoB  * Hntpu a jmJ PO" Vanwe ham npoeTo
 TK>tr*r*WHo: ycro-Qwe* AHt+O; WaTpyw*ww*/epywM. c. pawnero jre tctbo /ro3 woBwwe rrwwww rpyj; jt AM-HtOutoa pygOMOJ Ul Mpo He WWwe wo /oo JBBp'w &4TW' jIoam-h SWAtcM * a* tost mo rocy wony- AAOiH r O w Hi* w OAe»AO H nojl /WYO w 3BWMTB OT •OAPJ.O M »T MOP4/J A*WB- Hywo A. €7* W4 M/0WH m eTttpw H M pOAM ■ T*J>W . ?TO m 44T4 m WHM MM T *
 ft y&MM*B w* Boc pyweWwe J* 70 A A mo nr * homm no wor
 %A K" A KM' J~ TJ(Mayo /tob"Jl U/if, fop w> wo s' f-S* r g
   IT yr y C r/Opw~*, oyty M/w y c A* A (* MST t> * MO J» A HA <r TO}<** mW**tca /3jjgT£ yo~BB*r ow/~Amm*wm0 BmW-TOBhw oryoajM, a Mayo A a Be TO MAM CMC, W/ew w S7m/BW-Kerry/** n ew Bm m baba* a* u, h-o roy>ore e mm a aoa C TOAMHTA or OS*r mam ,S/o y3*y"c wOTope/W JbTO Tyro or mo no yppow yroyw a mam ffo mb a y m h Barn T fle/rewBeAAT* wowwo jroA/~0, mb Bor war a a r e^<-ny>ocwj> rwarwor ww oMm wro to mow M-/6, ryr yWOWW no MO AM s?a ewoww - Vyo OTO 3 a or Ty trey Cwewee ■ejST~1" AoMewwa^ yway oeTi bBTombtw-wee true Bmm7oBhm - War      /S£>0 aolieTc ww*
 omo woTOJi - 3-3 J! ey m Tg we A/-/6.
   7ww,wTO Byyoje how oaat* we y7>e to m mb ao-AYWoeree. R-m-o!Bow £ rowreyw"nowon wer/ewar To At Me A03BOA4T* Bac en/eoewTe ,-M CwoAewo mm. oTm* kfrMwrepoB?“ To -TO m b mo - mbao Wsro a s»-
 Am et cww am art to A war a a.
    IS Att Bo~ eut >" eoBcew ywriTio y oM wewe Mmatmm. flowwAyw ye / wm wo e n ewe wwyyw et — BMW STOW
 Ott-wy-nw - pro -75 orW 0erwyAM ye& 73 *•w m A- o & A • er-mom M £oT5e tckom Tommym~_ C wew W/omwbhym re nyoM/te r>er*ee - c o wwy/7B(* we w ?
   /7e we r/M/OMmt srr>M/w eprewMA — r ywerwwa 7ieo*TO,
 M y two m we now A two. > t%ot ro t/re> «-o 3 e To wm e
 7$ 72) c , //WM weA>yt-oTee " B oe WO 9 WO M W ww/oneet re 3 jaiMwrww// wmujab waw — 9T0 rr/oa      ye wen
 yaw AT-w-tm A* we.
    /} rer/epy //or boa* re wwe Bt/e*otart caoe wwe-Hwe no •wtmw Bonfire**-
    Tw ee am aw m B/rpewe c rpewwreee w WMW Y, a e wow too rw wf rnoe moctm m r, n — Bw Be am re boh-c mo MB £a/Lrtrmmc TC3MOt n/oeabmtc y-AOc. moc/m T7/OW■ a Ay or wtom e too we, e>r~Mcr poA yMTe aowwmy o WepTBoAj o row. c won * wo wo re pea we m-P w/Ja-
 nieee C71oMX ee/woByw. tS o TO mm* mBy a TOWC we wo/rt/wye — mto-To o c y a mt ^ a mTo-to wcwrT m boat mo « Ten:, flowewy?"
    Ton* mo Be A* we pue AoeTe 04/ ero ro /7o a/om -y>ojrec.8oeM woMMywwc.T**we *.w o*r ro m re * * 94/ le t^wao m yp/zoBo m peSMwe momt poe to a m rew poAee eoore>r*/ w aoa*moaywwe. H 3a r notw -r o /OWM. row* wo O WOWT075MO wyooewo erroe -
The Mujahideen Monthly
26
November 1988
        ”We the Qandaharis have been fighting bravely in the way of Allah (S.W.T) for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Unfortunately the Zionist-grabbed Imperialism through his biased media is shamefully fabricating news that the Qandaharis want to restore the deposed, ousted, and old-fashioned monarchy"
Hekmatyar addressing a big crowd of refugees in Pir Alizai Camp. This was the gathering which BBC on purpose fabricated a baseless news that Hekmatyar was not allowed by the people to deliver his speech.
city. We stayed for our launch at the war-ravaged Sardar Qala: A scene of vast destruction in Mahalajat betrayed the crudest form of the Russian barbarity at this place where it speak of that the Red Army had the toughest kind of resistance at the Mujahideen's hands. Mr. Hekmatyar addressed a group
of 200 commanders and subcommanders from all over Oandahar, about 100 Afghan
defectors wre also present. The meeting synchronised with
Afghan shelling around us, yet it continued for an hour. The Mujahideen took the shelling a routine phenomenon and nobody even moved from his
The Mujahideen Monthly
27
November 1988
We have given our pledge and oath to Allah (S.W.T.) for the establishment of an Islamic government. Those who agree should repeated and raise their hands. (Quetta 18 Oct. HISS)
"We will in no way be satisfied with anything less than Islamic government in Afghanistan" Qandaharis oath with Hekniatyar in Sept. HISS in the vicinity of Qandahar.
P’ace-                              near Silo (bread Factory) with
                                    hundreds of the Mujahideen. The Mr. Hekmatyar also visited      building was routinely used for
the newly-captured army base      military purpose by the Russians
and the Kabul regime.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Around evening we moved back to Commander Assaduiiah
A session of the Executive Committee of H.I.A’s Quetta Office.
 base at Arghandab in a com oy of about 50 vehicles. Just about 10 kilometers away from the Qandahar airbase and Core Commander Headquarters. The enemy lacked the guts to ambush our convoy, while they had enough artillery and tank units. Indeed the fear of the Mujahideen's       retaliation
 paralysed their power of action.
    Later we were hosted by commander Babi of Arghandab. Babi told us that his Mujahideen were going to do a feat.
    Babi ordered three of his Mujahideen to shave off their beards and put on AFghan army
From right to left: A mujahid with Kalashnikov, Colonel Jalaludin, his driver, and the other three Mujahideen. Colonel Jalaludin was very famous for his brutality in Qandahar by throwing wounded Mujahideen from helicopters.
The Mujahideen Monthly
November 1988
 uniforms. At night they were sent to the airport with their rifles. In the morning when a army truck was leaving the airport, the three musketeers’ showed themselves as Afghan army soldiers. The officers, colonel Jalaluddin, in the truck asked them what they were doing. They answered that they wanted to go to the city army base but they were afraid of the rebels (Mujahideen). The officer ordered them to get in the truck.
    When the truck covered only a short distance the Mujahideen ordered the officer at a gunpoint to move for another direction. Finally he was brought with his driver, truck and about 100 shells of tank and DC-10 (122mm cannon) to Mr. Hekmatyar Over this remarkable performance Mr Hekmatyar gave each of them a pistol as a reward.
 Hekmatyar had lengthy discussion with commanders and Mujahideen of these bases. On 11th Sept, we left for Shin Nari Brigade of Hezb-i-lslami near Spin Boldak via Arghastan district We drove for five hours and then stopped for launch. Finally we reached Quetta at around 9:00 p.m.
 the next morning we were told that Mr. Hekmatyar would be addressing a big crowd of refugees in Quetta. Indeed the address was the first of its kind ever made by any other Afghan leaders. A huge conference was given by Mr. Hekmatyar, which Quetta ever remember with regard to Afghanistan issue
      On Sept. 13th a colossal meeting took place in Panjpai Camp of refugees. The next day it was held at Gardi Jangal The third was at Jangal Pir Alizai Camp which started at 8 00 a.m. and according to the schedule it finished at 12 30 p.m. Surprisingly, Western mass media as usual fabricated the biggest lie of their coverage of the Aghan issue which said that Mr Hekmatyar was not allowed by the people to deliver his speech.
     On 17 Sept. He addressed another gathering at Muslim Bagh Camp of Afghan Refugees. And his last speech was delivered at Lorlai Camp. In the end he visited all Quetta hospitals and wards with 495 victims of the Russians bombings and shellings.
    We visited a total of 46 fronts of Mujahideen only in Arghandab district. Mr.
                                                                                                  We thought perhaps that was the end of the matter. But
Mujahideen’s Commander's of Talakan in Panjwai receive Eng. Hekmatyar.
The Mujahideen Monthly
30
November 1988
      Cont. from 26 older comrades', i.e., from the officers, that nearly 80 percent of the country was under the control of this handful' of dushman, and that the 'local' Soviet power is only to be found in the cities and what’s more not in all of them. This is not bad for a handful'. A turban, or simply a skull cap, tired faces, hardened hands from heavy work from early childhood, a very long shirt, large baggy trousers, sandals on bare feet in winter and summer alike, a shawl, used as blanket or pillow and for protection against cold or heat, at home masses of children, a wife, and elderly parents-these are the 'stooges'.
                 nvetpj' r* y/0 ovcBOM soar. t-cm          aec* sen        c*x>, 7°*+*£>  /eenTo/e
  C7M/HM He Cy      ho CF4,74CS-/7O0/r4>yMseM 04! J*0 -
 Jyat, u* ti/cr/-ojf* g cno 0„ c ot tjso* s~y Jt yate*- oTot*T0 Bis hc, seect£.
  G P*ei, sets u/ro ^0 4 04/ G 0/7 y S Js yo Tip S7M a Otoe-
 'TO‘r< " Ore TOate, 0ho X074 te /rc/O 0 Bo* ho a’ceyeo..
 /Jejr4 Seen m/4 hoh/ho h oGo nee/t-noT h» Xoay X 3*04 ToM/4 , ccHercxau X oTt * Ge/AU/un. /Jyyort,-T*t-rw/tr e /togyers-osro Boa/com yotrerre //0G~yJl4 tm/to u 0* ^eJM/ey m*> Joy0/74S h          4/ /r/aos/e//»/> *
     T
                                                                                eexte e 00070rojro90t//roy*t ro h* y3s-
 W*'* 0/70 774 /foj, ywrw; r/ooo/ey ye* M/eero bo Jyu/ye, a 9/eeeTO axyt/HVo 73-w n/oatse MMe/e a/w/o*>-7iO fits te          tr 0 /o y C ary ex. Aa *v /7natHO «.rt>
 natuy»        a w   Xh/ttom*?
     Ox, Me y Of J oms/is - H4y D» Sot/x-te, Xo7 t 73/7 ysovrH 0 CM 9477*4/0/ T0 O/Ote 0 h sr/ocr H 7 m h a, 3 cr /r oc.jie JO/rne "TO 7~ — *./, JT 0 U, Mts* ^H< VStJaW/' //■<•« HHOC/ OM« 7300 HO a y so 43 JX* s*jt y4 n 4/ ye* G~4sstm " e. 7,0 re CTO/aytO te 73 4/ /74/7~t TO/7o^ 73 • ji t 0To 3/oe0 ho AAU 3X0/00 9tsy Mote JO0OK , -                OTsi/oa Tt* ■
  T« J7 4 A/4S S]
     I saw their weapons and could only shrug my shoulders. AK's, AKM's, TT's, Makarvo’s, Dashaka's, Goriunov's. I will not argue, there were also weapons made in the west. For instance, some British rifles, from the beginning of the century, or parabellums’, prototypes of which were rotting under Stalingrad, or ‘Mausers', the type used by Dato Tutashia when he was running around in the mountains ... I think this is enough examples, although one could give endless more. But when I asked them if they knew what an M-16 was they shrugged their shoulders and inquired what was it and how did one eat it. Of course, they do have automatic rifles - for every 1,500 Soviet rifles they will have two or three, but no M-16‘s.
     This also does not add up. Ahal You are thinking about Stingers. They do not give you any peace. But allow me to ask how many of these stingers there are? Not so many, and the few there are appeared only a year ago.
7$OT Tory jaOT C-T-OJ/O G4/T6 ...
     And another thing: reconciliation. Pray, what kind of reconciliation? Afghanistan is occupied. It Is occupid by the 'valiant' Soviet army. With whom would you have them reconciled - with the occupant?
     Reconciliation - a cloudy, misty, and incomprehensible concept. But the fact that the Soviet airforce 'reconciles' itslef to bombing, basically peaceful and defenceless villages is as true and clear as daylight.
     And now allow me to give my opinion on these questions If you are really aiming for
     J-’ohh yt,. /3xtrxxhm/>
 peace, democracy, openness and so on, you would pull the Soviet army out of Afghaistan and allow real openness about this country; you would publish the data on the victims, about how many mothers have lost their sons, and you would also tell about people like me, defectors. Some people would condemn us, but others may give it some thought and ask why' did they defect
     But you will not do this. Because of your communist nature, you are afraid of everything, of heat and cold, of strong contrasts, and particularly freedom and independent thinking. Your colour is grey. Only the frame is red. And being grey yourself, you want the
The Mujahideen Monthly
31
November 1988
 whole world to be grey. But your wishes will not materialize Whatever slogans you may use in order to march forward into a ‘bright future', you will ot be able to advance.
     What about my little letter, will you publish it, huh? There is openness' after all. It may be a crooked one, but, nevertheless.. as everybody is now supposed to be able to talk about everything, I too, therefore, want to put in my bit, being a Soviet', even if a former one. If you want
 it, you can publish it under a heading such as: 'He sold his country for dollars and jeans!' huh?
     But with such a heading it still doesn't add up. I do not have a penny to rub together and instead of jeans I am wearing baggy trousers and a long shirt, and this leter does not come from the Hilton
     Misunderstandings, misundesandings. . By the way,
 all your theories and practices for the last 70 years are complete misunderstandings. And today, while putting on new clothes, you have forgotten to remove the old clothes and wash yourself. And this is unhealthy, the smell, excuse me, is revolting
    And so the story continues...
    Vladimir Ramchuk
By Dr. Faizullah Kakar
         RESEARCH AND ADVISORY COUNCIL PROPOSAL
                                                         INTRODUCTION
    The heroic sacrifices of the Afghan Mujahideen during the last nine years to defend Islam and to liberate Afghanistan from the Soviet claw, the admirable hospitality of Pakistan provided to the Afghan       refugees      and
 Mujahideen, and the continued    assistance    and
 political   backing      from
 supporters of the Afghan Jihad have brought Afghanistan and Islam into sharp international focus        and          have
 internationalized the once regional Afghan issue.
    The Jihad has influenced East-West detente and has also Influenced relations between the Soviet block countries and the majority of the Muslim peoples. These international effects of the Afghan Jihbad, together with the spectacular victory of the
 Mujahideen in convincing a superpower army to retreat, have crystallized a new international image for the Muslim nation of Afghanistan.
     In Afghanistan itself, the decade-long Jihad has produced considerable socioreligious changes such that ideological relations between Afghans have become stronger and tribal affiliations have become weaker Tremendous awareness of Islam as a whole way of both social and political life has permeated virtually every segment of Afghan society.
     These important changes in the international image of Afghanistan, its potential impact on future international issues, and the internal socio-religious changes that have occurred and are still in evolution, dictate a new political order for Afghanistan. Such a new
 political order will have to be based on the principles of Islam since the historic changes in Afghanistan have had a fundamental influence on the Islamization of values and characters of the people.
 Now that the Soviets are leaving Afghanistan and the Mujahideen government is about to control the whole of Afghanistan, a new phase of Jihad will emerge. The greatest challenges facing the Mujahideen in this upcoming phase will be to unite the nation and begin reconstruction and rehabilitation of the country and its people. Similarly, as the Afghanistan begin to clear the estimate five million Soviet land mines in Afghanistan, they will most likely face in the international arena a more ubiquitous and more difficult to defuse multitude of mines. The latter challenges are expected
The Mujahideen Monthly
32
November 1988
especially because the Mujahideen are determined to set up an Islamic system of government that may have profound implications for influencing events far beyond the borders of Afghanistan.
     A good understanding of the nature, direction, and implications of the socio-cultural changes that have occurred and are occurring in Afghanistan, a reasonable knowledge of the availably and potential economic resources in Afghanistan as well as an undrstanding of the dynamic nature of intrnational relations, laws, and economics will enable the Mujahideen leaders to make a more informed decision in the formulation and enforcement of internal and external policies.
     The generation of such specific and relevant knowledge for a scientific formulation of policy in Afghanistan requires that a group of competent and experienced scholars from
 several different disciplines undertake a systematic study of the most pressing and most immediate questions pertaining to the internal and external policy goals.
     There are numerous Afghan and non-Afghan scholars scattered around the globe who have maintained an active interest in the issue of Afghanistan during the last decade. These scholars have made meaningful contributions by writing analytical articles or books or engaging in public speaking about the struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen. A\ concentration of their collective intelectual energy on a relevant question about Afghanistan could generate answers of great value for Afghanistan.
     A research and advisory council is proposed to be made of these scholars who come from a variety of disciplines such as political science, sociology, anthropology, psychology,
 economics, religion, history, education, medical science, and engineering. For the purpose of improving the objectivity of judgement of the council, it is proposed that this professional council be non-partisan and independent.
    The council will have a coordinator. an assistant coordinator, a secretary, and two correspondence clerks. There will be two categories of members. Full-time members stationed in Peshawar, Pakistan (or somewhere in Afghanistan) and part time members residing outside Pakistan.
    Issues to be investigated by the council will be those raised by the Heads of the Mujahideen, leaders of the state and government of Afghanistan, or those issues that are considered important by the council itslef. Written solutions, advice, or proposals pertaining to an issue that is researched and discussed by the council will be presented to the above-designated Mujahideen leaders.
The Mujahideen Monthly
33
November 1988
By Muslim Media
ISREALI TERRORISM FAILS TO BREAK
 houses, have all been constant features of life for the Palestinians living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip
     Since 1967, when the Zionists occupied these areas, more than 100.000 Palestinian men and women have been put in jails or in concentration camps. Even children are not spared In the Al-Fira a concentration camp-the former Jordanian military cantonment outside Nablus - children as young as eight or nine years old are interned. Not only are they tortured but they have also been sexually abused. Before the uprising, there were 4,000 Palestinian men and women in jail; today there are 10,000 and the number is growing.
      In their attempt to crush the uprising, the Zionists have resorted to every brutal method that their crooked minds could think of - from shooting directly into crowds, using dubs to smash the skulls or break the bones of Palestinian youth to attacking homes, destroying furniture and food and bulldozing orchards and killing and injuring young children, pregnant women (there have been at least 100 cases of miscarriages brought about by Zionist atrocities in the Gaza
PALESTINIANS WILL
Palestinians using the only available means of jehad, slings, stones and sticks against the Zionist troops for the independence of their country.
     The nine-month old intifadah in Palestine has long ceased to be an attraction for television cameras. There are no longer hordes of journalists, with note-pades in han, hotly in pursuit of gun-toting Israeli soldiers chasing            stone-wielding
 Palestinian children. The fact that the television cameras are not there does not mean that the Intifadah has subsided, as was so arrogantly daimed by the Zionists. Even though they knew otherwise, the Zionist leaders
the uprising was stage-managed simply for the television cameras. There was never any hint that the Palestinians may no longer be willing to put up with Zionist brutalities or humiliation.
    And there has been a consistent, deliberate policy of terriorising the Palestinians into submission Brutal killings, detention without trial, torture in concentration camps, where living conditions are horrible, and collective punishments of
The Mujahideen Monthly
34
November 1988
 Strip alone) and old men - but the intifadah continues Most ol these crimes have occurred in remote areas away from the glare of television lights, where, with evident delight, the Zionist have beaten up their victims.
                                                                                                               Among those killed were a four-day-old infant. Suha
 Muhammad Faha. from the AIFawar refugee camp near Hebron, who choked to death when Israeli soldiers sprayed toxic gas into her house on April 15. a 90-year-old woman - Suad Ahmad Yousef from the Az-Zaitoon quarter in Gaza who was clubbed to death on April 12, a 70-year-old woman, Wafa Farajallah, who        died from
 poisonous gas inhalation in the Jabalia camp in Gaza, a 21-year-old - Huda Yousef Musallam of Salfit village - who was beaten up in Nablus while out buying medicine    and      42-year-old
 Zahriyeh Isma il Al-Baba from Al Amar Camp near Ramallah who was savagely beaten up when Israeli soldiers broke into her home
    The overwhelming majority of the victims have died of bullet wounds Some have even been shot to death after surrendering to the Zionists The case of 24 year-old Hussein Shahin from AlYamoun village near Jenin is typical On March 30. Shahin was grabbed by Zionist soldiers
 and ordered to sit on the ground An Israeli officer then shot him through the head, killing him instantly On February 7, lyad Muhammad Aqel, 15, was taken from the Bureij camp in Gaza A few hours later his battered body, with skull crushed was found near the camp. 17 year-old Fuad Tarazi from the same camp faced a similar fate on February 9 Four youths from Kafr Salem near Nablus were dug out just in time to survive after Israeli soldiers buried them alive with a bulldozer on February 5
     At least 7,000 Palestinians -perhaps twice that much - have had their limbs and fists broken by Israeli soldiers using clubs
(now reinforced with fibre glass because wooden clubs tended to break upon impact) and metal bars. Dr. Jennifer Leaning, a medical expert from Harvard (US), testified in February that the midshaft fractures which she found among the Palestinians during her visit to the area occur only when arms and legs are forcibly stretched out
    However, these direct methods of repression have largely proved ineffective in breaking the people's spirit -rather they have fueled the uprising - so the Israelis have been forced to resort to other more indirect tactics. The Palestinians, despairing of the PLO, had decided to see if they could break Israel's hold on the occupied territories with a series of strikes and boycotts, as well as threatening collaborators; in short, by relying on their own resources.
    Withholding of both labour and taxes play a key role in this original strategy. The Arabs have been reduced to hewers of wood and drawers of water in their        own country;    some
industries, notably construction and          services are totally
dependent on Arab labour
    Any boycott is a double edged sword, added to which the Israelis are stepping up the economic pressure. The Zionists have selected six or seven villages to make an example of them. One is Bait Umar in the West Bank. About 50          local farmers    were
summoned to the military governor's office in Hebron and advised that their licences to market their products had been withdrawn. The result is that bO percent of the fruit crop is now
Zionist forces daily exercise different ways of torturing in Palestine. It is rather part of their hobbies.
The Mujahideen Monthly
35
November 1988
 rotting on the trees (the remainder is sold locally)
      Withdrawal of export licences is far from the only trick up Israel's sleeve Another is the tax sweep. Before dawn. Israeli troops seal off a town or village, then go round demanding to see identity cards When the person produces his ID. it is confiscated. He can only recover it by going to an office where Jewish tax collectors present him with a heap of bills for overdue payments and future estimates Should he refuse or be unable to pay. they distrain from his property; the army seizes his car. fridge, even valuables in lieu of taxes Now. in the Gaza Strip, the Israelis are even levying a special tax on cars 25.000 car owners have been sent letters informing them they must change their licence plates, for which a fee ranging from S70 to S300 is charged The Israelis confiscate driving licences at checkpoints, when a person goes to recover his driver's licence, he is told it cannot be returend unless he obtains clearance from the customs and excise department One man has even been ordered to pay $1,500 in rates on a factory that closed down two years ago before he can get his licence back.
      By means such as these the Israelis are seeking to counteract the effect of the Arab tax boycotts, which has cut Israeli revenue in the occupied territories by as much as 50 percent. The israelis also have another way of retaliating: they cut the social services and close down hospitals and clinics Businessmen either have to pay their taxes or face closure Arabs receive in any case only
 elementary health care, specialised treatment is usually available only in Israeli hospitals, unless, of course, one can afford $150 a day for a bed or have insurance
     Military commanders resort also to arbitrary cutting-off of electrical supply and telephone lines, imposing restrictions on travel and foreign capital and even interfering with food supplies.        The civil
 administrators, for their part, have not been idle. They have suspended welfare payments and cut back all development projects This entails laying off employees in large numbers
     After medical care, the area most affected in the social services has been education Wholesale closure of schools and universities reflects the youth of the stone-throwers Schools had been closed for a period of four months; now both primary and secondary schools have been closed again All universities have been shut drvA'n nre December Muslims are already discriminated
 against educationally and in job opportunities. These measures are intended, by striking at the morale of the resistance, to aggravate a situation already deplorable. With shops open only three hours a day. all development frozen and factories working at only half capacity, the gross domestic product in the West Bank and Gaza has dropped by around 25 percent. Israel is relying on grim economic realities to break the people's morale but in so doing forgets that Israelis inured to luxury are less likely to put up with the effects of such resistance than are Arabs, for whom hardship has become a way of life.
     Typical of Israeli punitive methods is the closure of the Inash al-Usrah (Family Rehabilitation Society) al-Birah on the West Bank. In ash al-Usrah was one of the best run Palestinian            charitable
 foundations, it was founded in 1965 by an energetic lady. Umm Khalil, with a capital of only $330 It grew into a formal multifaceted organisation with
A Palestinian Mujahid with his latest arm, the catapulatc, trying to shoot on the Zionist troops.
The Mujahideen Monthly
36
November 1988
 workshops, vocational classes, a school and a day-care centre for 200 children. What has particularly attracted the malevolence of the Israelis is its efforts to keep alive the Palestinian sense of identity through teaching of folklore and handicrafts Five vocational courses open to women provide teaching in sewing, machine knitting, machine embroidery, cosmetics and secretarial training. An annual bazar enables the women to market
 their products. There is also an orphanage (Dar alYatama), with 150 inmates accommodated in two buildings.
    One afternoon on June 8. a group of Israeli policemen simply walked in and closed most of the society down for a period of two years'.
    The real reasons for Israel's closure of In ash al-Usrah is not far to seek, it is part to Israel's policy of collective punishment, of making all Arabs corporately
responsible for the activities of those engaged in active resistance A society like In'ash al-Usrah. by paying for the education of martyrs' families, is helping to keep the spirit of resistance alive' even anything so innocuous as folklore or embroidery is a target for Israeli brutality as such activities help nourish in a demoralised people the spirit of resistance by reminding them of their identity and a past in which they can take legitimate pride -
-----------------------------s

SCORCHED RY QAXRAIIAR"
       The following article had been published by Panda on August 10th, I9SR, which clearly speaks of Russians' convulsiveness and agitations. The article had been written by V. Okulov and P. Studenikin, Pravda's special correspondents.
       Qandahar, we flew here before daybreak The airport on the "edge" of the Registan desert looked lifeless. Afghan soldiers stood next to our armoured carriers (the Soviet troops' base had virtually been handed over to the Afghan Army Corps). Our rear military personnel had been flying out of Qandahar day after day. Only the combat subunits remained. They had to leave for the border along a route that skirted Afghanistan in a semicircle from the South-from Qandahar-to the Northern through Shindand.
       "Your departure from Qandahar at the first stage of implementing the Geneva agreements is well timed", many Afghans in Kabul and Qandahar
S_________________________________
said to us. This exposes true aims of the Peshawar leaders propaganda trump cards
    The situation in Qandahar, which has always been complicated,           remains
contradictory even now. According to information from competent Afghan organs, there are 389 groups in the province -more than 17,000 men Less
 than 200 of them are active -numbering 11.000 men As everywhere in AFghanistan, when the implementation of the Geneva Accords began, the process of polarization of forces increased in the opposition i camp and disagreements were exacerbated to the point of vicious fighting.
                                                                                                  Many armed groups ;
The Mujahideen Monthly
37
November 1988
 stopped the struggle against the government and Soviet troops, but instead fought their "brotherers-in-arms." These tendencies also exist in Oandahar. 'The movement of the Islamic revolution" marked time.
     Meanwhile, the groups of the two "Islamic Parties of Afghanistan"        received  the
 order from their leaders Gulbuddin          Hekmatyar  and
 Mohammad Yunis Khalis in Peshawar to step up combat operations and to struggle to sieze power. The Peshawar extremists announced their intention to plant their transitional governemnt" in Oandahar,           and they  are
 nurturing plans for the division of Afghanistan.
     We are       discussing  the
 situation with Colonel Nisar (name as transliterated), leader of one of the provincial subunits of the Ministry of State Security A strong man, as if hewn from stone, he does not conceal the difficulties. On the contrary, he wants to reveal to us all the factors which are complicating the situation in Oandahar
     The           irreconcilable
 opposition is assembling additional forces here 400 men arrived from Uruzgan, 200 from Helmand They are waiting for additional detachments from the Pakistani bases to arrive. According to our data more than 20 advisors-from the United States, the PRC, the FRG, Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia-are active in the groups close to Oandahar.
     About 300 counterrevolutionaries went to the province from behind the border, from Quetta. Their task was to attempt to sieze Soviet
      Assault: Combat vehicles are entering the city, they are taking up positions in guard detachments and block formation ready to protect the convoys from fire, the first to begin the march through Oandahar There are few people in the strets, and this increases concern: will there really be fighting ahead? Check your weapons! put on your helmets and bulletproof vests!
      The Dushmans are conducting a strong mortar barrage - a vehicle is on fire. .
    Now they can strike from the Kohypaya direction They will try to split the convey...
    ...The first wounded man arrived at the       battalion
 command post:         Private
 Grigoriy Sukhanov was blwon up by a mine. With the aid of his assistants          senior
 Lieutenant            Nikilay
 Baranovskiy, the    battalion
 doctor, desperately fights for Grishin's life...I saw Lt. Col Dunayev grit his teeth: it is awful to lose guys, it is indescribably awlul-especially on the way home!
    Machineguns were still firing
     True, this picture can only be seen in Oandahar We had just gone past numerous stalls, and waved in response to the little boys squatting under the trees, and   then suddenly its
 fighting, shooting, and over the thickets nearly black columns of smoke from the explosions. It is as if we are covering, like a chain of armour, a perfectly peaceful procession:       an elderly
 townsman is moving along the roadside     surrounded     by
 women, they are leading children. As if it has not occurred     to   them,     so
 accustomed as they are to everything in their city on the front, that  they are in  the
 epicenter of the struggle Our APC brakes in an open space, and lets an on coming Afghan vehicle rush by: two soldiers support a wounded captain-they rush through the city to the hospital
     The convoy leaves "Black Square", and gathers speed on a slope where the shells of burntout trucks shield the roadway from the "Green Zone” as if with a metal barrier along the roadway. Our face are burning with the heat The convoys are entering the Registan desert
 from the command post-roof, and guns were blasting away behined the wall We go to the roof: there is firing in the city itself, and the vehicles which have been knocked out of action, are marked out by plumes of smoke.
 soldiers and ofticers and carry off people loyal to the authorities.
      A fine day is breaking. Sappers with powerful mine-clearing devices are the first to leave the camp: their task is to clear the road of mines...
The Mujahideen Monthly
38
November 1988
By Dr. F. Kakar
ONE EYE ON THE GROUND AND ANOTHER ON THE SKY
    The call of Allahu Akbar rose from several mountain peaks around    us. Amidst the
 reverberations of these calls the mountains shook as the powerful  antiaircraft Zikoyak
 cannon-like guns fired grom the peaks where the calls had' originated Red tracer bullets fired by men located somewhere below the Zikoyak positions crossed each other's paths in the sky. A group of men shouted "Zenda    bad Mujahideen-i-
 Afghanistan” ("Long live the Afghan    Mujahideen") and
 "Zendabad Hekmatyar" ("Long live Hekmatyar"). We had arrived at the Mujahideen strongholld of Espast in the Logar province at night and all the fire works were to welcome Br. Hekmatyar, the Ameer of Hezb-i-lslami of Afghanistan (HIA) whom we accompanied. The base, belonged to the members of the Harakat-i-lnqilab      Islami-i-
 Afghanistan (HIIA) party, led by Maulavi          Mohammad   Nabi
 Mohammadi. The warm and magnificent welcome which Br. Hekmatyar received was a clear gesture on the part of the HIIA Mujahideen signifying      their
 support    for the Unity of the
 Afghan       Mujahideen.    The
 Mujahideen at the base were ecstatic that a national leader had come to their base to spend a night with them. We were then taken to a mountainside cavelike
 room heavily fortified. As we sat and    began    to   discuss   the
 Mujahideen operations in Logar, a Mujahid guard from a hilltop shouted "Extinguish to lights!". Immediately all aladdin lamps went dark, and the roar of Soviet jets   above    the     base  drew
 everyone's attention. In a minute or two the planes had gone and the aladdin lamps were lit again. We     were    later    told  that
 extinguishing lights at night has
been a routine security precaution practiced by the Mujahideen to avoid Soviet bombardment.          Soviets
apparently drop bombs at night when they locate a light in the areas held by the Mujahideen. At night the planes fly lower and thus can hit their targets more accurately than during the day when they have to fly at higher altitudes to avoid being hit by the anti aircraft missiles of the
   The Mujahideen Monthly
         39
                                     November 1988
 Mujahideen.
     Our trip to the mostly liberated province of Logar had begun on July 78, 1988 from Peshawar, Pakistan. After resting at a border Mujahideen base in Paktia, we drove to Logar for about six hours. The rest of the trip was by foot. While we were walking, the local Mujahideen repeatedly warned us not to stray from the footpath of our guides. Anti-personnel mins are apparently everywhere and the distraction these mines had caused was clearly evident. On the way we saw numerous fresh graves of people blown up by these mines. These graves, together with the corpses of horses and camels laying on the roadside, formed a grisly scene of Soviet barbaarism. In one area where the anti-personnel mines were found in particularly great numbers, the foot path we followed snaked through craters of discharged mines and a young man standing there directed us to walk between the marks, the marks were made of sticks and stones, but in one spot a Khaki brown jacket was also used as a marker placed on a stick like a scare crow. The jacket, as the young man recounted, belonged to the man blown up by an anti-personnel mine a few days earlier.
    While walking among these mines, the danger is not only from the ground but also from the air. Since the area is about 40 miles from Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, Soviet planes carrying deadly bombs and rockets pass overhead several times a day.
    Three hours of walking through this high risk area went without incident and we finally reached a valley called Kafer Dara. The valley was green with
 mulberry and apricot trees. The fruits were ripe and we stopped to enjoy them. On both sides of the rather narrow valley were houses, but these were all In ruins with no human beings Inside. After eating a few handfuls of mulberries, I walked over to inspect a nearby mosque which was half damaged On the dusty shelves of the mosque I saw the corner of a book showing through a small mound of dirt I pulled the book out and found it to be a small booklet used for teaching young children the Afghan alphabet, the type I had used in my childhood some 35 years ago in Northern Afghanistan. While my eyes were focussed on a page of the booklet in my hand, I imagined myself as a child in the place of the children to whom these booklets belonged. How terrorizing the Soviet bombardment must have been to these children. Where are those children now? I asked myself; in a refugee camp in Pakistan?, in the Soviet Union?, or do they lie dead under the piles of rubble in their houses? I was still searching for these
children in my mind and a few drops of tears were rolling down my face when Mohammadullah, one of my companions, called my name saying, "Lets go! We are leaving."
    We continued up the lush valjey passing several ghost villages Huge trees laid dead, blown off their trunks by bombs. Bomb craters almost perfectly
The Mujahideen Monthly
40
November 1988
circular at the top and conical in shape were everywhere. They measured about 5 to 6 meters across at the top and about 3 to 4 meters deep. At the upper end of this valley we rested and performed the zuhr prayer and continued our journey heading towards a pass called Dobandi Dobandi is a well known spot where numerous Mujahideen groups and caravans have been ambushed in the past by the specially trained Soviet Spitnaz troops. Before crossing the pass we split into three groups. The lead group which was made up of 10 experienced men carried with them rockets and rocket launchers. Before reaching the top of the Dobandi pass, we rested by a small spring of water that was rather recently used by the retreating Soviet soldiers. Opened food cans with Soviet writing on them were scattered around the spring with piles of empty cartridges of different sizes. On the top of the pass all three groups gathered, and we practiced target shooting using Klashnikov guns which each of us carried on our shoulders.
    Following this we continued on our path toward our destination which was the Abchakan Mujahideen base On the way one accompanying Mujahid showed me several spots where Soviets ambushed the Mujahideen, pointing to graves along the road of the fallen brave. He said the ambush often created suspicion among the surviving Mujahideen that perhaps an informer was among them. The suspicion was there because the Soviet Spitnaz would show up precisely at the time when the Mujahideen caravan was passing a specific point even if they had changed their trip schedule prior to
 reaching the Dobandi pass. After the liberation of the area, however, the Mujahideen discovered several pieces of Soviet electronic equipment buried in the ground in strategic spots with only a sensor antenna showing above the ground. Apparently these devices informed the Soivets of a passing caravan, and with the help of this equipment, the Soviets carried out their precise and deadly ambushes.
      Our walk to Abchakan base was tring but we also learned a few of the discriplines that the mujahideen exercise in Afghanistan. We learned that you always keep your gun with your no matter what you do You always stay clean with wudhu (ablution) since you don’t know when and where you will become a martyr. While walking, keep one eye on the ground to watch for anti personnel mines and the other on the sky to watch for Soviet helicopters and jet planes. Beyond these precautions you move bravely and rely on Allah (swt).
      On the third day of our stay at the Abchakan base we were about to observe signs of the Mujahideen morale before they participate In an operation. The plan to capture Pui-i-Alam, the capital of Logar province and the only unllberated town in Logar province, was drawn during the previous days. The necessary heavy equipment was moved into strategic positions. I carefully observed how the commander of the base selected men among the Mujahideen who will participate in the operation and how the Mujahideen were going to react to his selection. I expected some Mujahideen to say they were sick since I knew
  two of the men had fevers, and I had just given them Tylenol to lower their fever. Now selection took place however, and no one refused to participate Everyone began to prepare himself for the daring evening war with the Soviets and Afghan communist soldiers at Pul-i-Alam some 25 kilometer away from the base.
      Everyone seemed cheerful and energetic and quite eager to leave Mohammad Gul, a young man 14-15 years of age, also began to tie his waist and wrap his legs with a doth known as pitaba I and my other colleagues surely thought that Mohammad Gul would stay since he was very young and was assigned the duty of cooking and serving tea to us, the guests. Every day Mohammad Gul had served us tea quite humbly. But now our tea server stood there firm like a master and was ready to challenge a superpower army. When everyone was ready to leave (except us, the guests) they cohered for a brief prayer and saying of farewell. Mohammad jumped on a rock, held his gun high over his head and firmly declare: "We shall fight until the last Soviet soldier is out of Afghanistan. We shall fight until we form an Islamic government In Afghanistan." While they were reciting "Allahu Akbar wa Lillahil Hamd" the Mujahideen marched towards Pul-i-Alam. As of this writing Pull-i-Alam is still under siege by the Mujahideen and is expected to fall soon, Insha Allah.
The Mujahideen Monthly
41
November 1988
THE SOVIET STYLE OF GOOD NEIGHBOURLINESS
                                                     By Ghous Amer (Member of Afghan News Agency)
     The Russian inroad into the poor, defenceless and landlocked Afghanistan in December 1979 came as a Hide shock to the world nations. They had never thought of this brutal onrush of the Soviets to ever take place against a friendly, tiny Muslim country. But unfortunately this happned and Afghanistan came under the Communist sway.
     In fact, the Soviet military might warned the West interfering in the affairs of the countries situated close to the Russian border. The Kremlin bosses startd issuing orders while the hirelings of the Kabul regime were bound to obey them. The Russians tried to dupe the free world by speaking highly of the welfare and prosperity of the Afghan Nation as well as about the overall socio-economic development
     Instead the Soviets turned Afghanistan into one of the most poverty-sticken and bullet-riddled countries of the world, dislodged millions of its people and crippled the entire state apparatus. There were unprecedented             human
 sufferings in the recent history -over one million deaths occurred and countless became disabled. The protracted wanton bombardment deep isnide Afghanistan has woughty havoc to agricultural field, schools, health centres and roads. The
                                     The Mujahideen Monthly
 countryside is littered with mines, bombs, hand grenades and other lethal devices that pose a major threat to life for an indefinite period.
      Villages were ruined and the centuries-old traditional life of the peace-loving people was completely       disrupted. Those
 who dared to put up a resistance were jailed in the dark dungeons. The advdent of Russian troops in Kabul, however, was a good omen for the pro-Moscow quislings who were out to chant the slogans of '• a so-called earthly paradise.
     The         atrocities   and
 persecution of the Russians in
 collusion with the surrogate clique in Kabul led to the national          uprising    and
 strengthening of Jehad which luckly culminated in bringing the infidel invaders to their knees. It still continues and will perpetuate till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The holy war
 (Jihad) caused tension and chaos within the ranks of the communist party and their KGB masters.
     The Afghan Jihad quardually gained momentum and, as more and more patriotic Muslims rallied round it. the process and stance of the holy war was expeditiossly intensified and became universal. In spite of ruthless repression by the Russians, mainly through air and ground strikes on the Afghan Mujahideen’s concentrations and the villages which somewhat provided protection to them, the Afghan Mujahideen have pinned down the Russian aggrossors.
     Najib was installed by the Russians to fulfil what Karmal failed to chieve who is still serving his KGB superiors and fight against his nation But th^ general situation cropping up around Najib and his followers is indicative of his imminent downfall.
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii INTRODUCTION OF COMMANDERS iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.........................................................................................
      A SHORT LIFE-SKETCH OF ENGINEER TARIQ
     Engineer Tariq, 32, is a member of the Central Council of Hezb-l-lslami Afghanistan and acting Amir of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa. He is one of the founding members of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa. Highly energetic, hardworking, smiling and sobre. He puntucally recites the Holy Qur’an and observes fasting quite often. His decision in every matter depends on the decision of the related Council. He is a very good practical Muslim, follows the commands of Qur'an and Hadith. He
 displays patience and courage while facing problems All his action are aimed at winning the pleasure of Allah (SWT).
    While still a student, he became an active member of the Islamic Movement and started his struggle against the corrupt regime of Zahir Shah. After high school he got admition at the Polytechnique Institue of the Kabul University - an Institute which run and watched by the Russians and it was the centre of Communist activities. The
institute invironments did not changed him despite the continuous threat of his licturers and fellow Marxist students. In return he with some others class fellow became the most active anti Daoud and anti-Communist group in the Institute. Being well known to the Marxist, he defected soon after the Communist took power in Kabul.
     He turned to traditional Islamic education. Not being contented, he decided to participated in Jihad. He went to the Kunar province in 1978 and took part in many operations against the enemy. Then he was shifted by the Head Office to Parwan and Kapisa and got stationed in Panjshir. He established the base of Paishghor, an important centre for military and cultural activities of the province. Many Mujahideen from other parts of the province were sent to his headquarters for military and ideological training.
    Later he was sent to Nejrab district as Commander and he made every effort to organize the Ne|rab front. As a result the Nejrab district was conquered for the second time and all the enemies of Islam were killed. A large quantity of weapons and ammunition was also seized as
The Mujahideen Monthly
43
November 1988
Commander Tariq with his Mujahideen.
 booty. The Russians sent a large convoy to crush the Mujahideen in the region in the winter of 1980 He ordered his Mujahideen not to let the Russians to re-establish the district headquarters. The fight went for 15 days and he was able to caputre 400 Kalashnikoves and other rifles with large quantity of ammunitions.
     In 1981 on the HIA Amir's direction Tariq went to Jabul Seraj district. Organizing the fighting fronts of Salang and Jabul Seraj he proved to be master of orgnaizing Mujahideen and establishing new fronts of Jihad He was always ordered to cope and guide the neigbour fronts and help Mujahideen of other front when they face difficulties. In the same year he was appointed as second in command to the Amir of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa province.
     In the 1987 HIA’s party election he easily made It to become member of the Central Counil by winning more than ninty per cent vote in Parwan
and Kapisa province.
     His headquarters, known as Shafaq front, plays top role in giving lessons to the Russians convoys and the military base in Qala-i-Surkh. His area Is marked by the Russians as black area' Each time when the Russians' convoys came from north or cross the Salang toward north they take special security measures, but never at the history of Jihad convoy has passed his area without leaving behind the reckage of army trucks and tanks. His stronghold is not only a base for military
 propose, but it is a centre from where he runs dozens of schools, madrasah and ideological training courses. Frequent conferences and gatherings are held in different part of the province by him for the enlightening of the people to be aware of the world attitude toward the Afghan Jihad. Special courses are held by him to inform people of the Russian-Kabul conspiricy and blackmailing tactics and this way he made it safe for his followers and himself that a government can not infliterate in his area of command.
The Mujahideen Monthly
44
November 1988
                  HEKMATYAR SEES NO CHANGE IN PAK-AFGHAN POLICY
    The head of Hizb-e-lslami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbudin Hikmatyar has said that the general elections in Pakistan do not pose any worry for Seven Party Afghan Alliance
    After the visit of Kunar valley, the Afghan leader while talking with Agency Afghan Press in Peshawar maintained the impression as misconception that he had described about the role of any political party of Pakistan in connection with the Afghan problem, he said that the changes due to general elections in Pakistan will not affect the Afghan problem as the present Afghan policy is in the best interest of Pakistan. This fact cannot be ignored.
    Engineer Hikmatyar said that the headquarter for the interim government of Mujahideen will be in Afghanistan. Before establishing the headquarter, Majlis-e-Shoora will be electd which will award the vote of confidence to the interim government He said that the present situation in Afghanistan clearly indicated that our point of view about Geneva accord was correct. The Afghan leader again clarified that
 if Soviets are sincere to solve Afghan problem then they should negotiate with the Afghan Mujahideen rather to patronise the puppet regime. He was surprised that the western powers who posed themselves as champions of the democracy are trying to push back the Afghanistan towards the old system of Loi Jirga as described by Mr. Cordovez
 and the airport have been cut off after the occupation of the town, where there are Soviet troops present these days. After the attack, the Mujahideen have stepped up their operations to obtain the control of the airport. The occupation authorities are using transport planes to save the trapped Soviet troops at the airport whose movements can be safe qt the night time only
 MUJAHIDEEN CUT OFF THE LINKS BETWEEN THE AIRPORT AND QANDAHAR CITY
    The urban guerilla Mujahideen captured Murad Qila army camp in Qandahar city on October 7, the Hizb-e-lslami sources from Qandahar front said
    The sources told AAP that the links between Qandahar city
     It is to be noted that after encirclement of the Qandahar airport from the south and west the only supply route remain the Kabul highway which the Mujahideen are capable to keep close whenever they desire.
     In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen have captured Shehrak            subdivisional
 headquarter, 120 kilometre south-west of Chaghcharan, headquarter of Ghowr province According to the reports, the
Ammunition of tank and artillery captured by Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen Monthly
45
November 1988
 Commander Naser with unit of long range rocket captured by him in Shakardara district. Below is a unit loaded with rocket at the some place.
 Mujahideen armed with rockets and missiles launched an attack at the military centre of Shehrak where the Kabul troops fled away after some resistance. In the fighting 12 Kabul troops were killed and ten others were captured while fleeing away and heavy quantity of arms and ammunition were captured from the military centre.
 GUERILLA OPERATIONS OF MUJAHIDEEN IN BAGHLAN CITY
    The Mujahideen led by Group Commander, Mohammad Akbar blew up a security post on October 7 from where the puppet troops fled away However seven troops with arms were captured. The same Mujahideen group led by Commander Bashir Khan during an operation destroyed the tank of the mobile force whose crew was killed on the spot.
 MUJAHIDEEN FOIL MILITARY OPERATION NEAR KABUL
    The Afghan freedom fighters frustrated the military offensive for recapturing the liberated town of Shakardara, 15 kilometre north of Kabul.
    According to the reports, the armoured units, on October 10, advanced towards Shakardara where the Mujahideen waylaid the invaders at the place Qala Dasht. After the day long resistance, the armoured units retreated towards Kabul leaving behind the wreckage of a tank and two vehicles. The casualties during the military operation could not be confirmed while eight Mujahids sustained injuries.
 SOVIET AIRBASE ATTACKED IN HERAT
    The second largest Soviet
airbase of Shin Dand was attacked by the Mujahideen, as a result of which several Soviet troops were killed and injured and installations were destroyed.
     According to AAP sources, the Mujahideen of Jamiat-e-Islami and Hizb-e-lslami stormed at the airbase by using rockets,
 missiles and mortars on the morning of October 8. During the swift attack the invading forces conducted severe shelling in retaliation while the Soviet bombers sent from Herat hit the rural localities. In the course of bombing eight Mujahids and several Afghan civilians were martyred
The Mujahideen Monthly
46
November 1988
    In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen are reported to have captured the sub-divisional town Bakva in the east of Farah city It was learnt that Seven Parly Afghan Alliance Mujahideen launched joint operation on October 5. The Kabul troops stationed at the Bakva town fled away without putting up any resistance. Heavy arms and ammunition left by the fleeing force was captured by the Mujahideen.
 MUJAHIDEEN SURROUND QALAT GHILZAI ON KABUL-QANDAHAR HIGHWAY
    After capturing the provincial headquarter of Paktika. the Mujahideen have narrowed the siege of Qalat Ghilzai on Kabul-Oandahar highway. the headquarter of Zabul province
    The AAP sources report that the Mu|ahideen. on October 7. broke the first defence line by capturing the military camp in Shora area in Qalat Ghilzai The Kabul troops stationed at the security camp fled away as the Mujahideen launched operation by rockets and missiles. A total of 15 kalashnikov rifles, one long range gun and ammunition was seized by the Mujahideen Three days earlier, the Mujahideen had shot down the Soviet helicopter which was carrying supplies for the besieged troops in Qalat Ghilzai
    The political circles of the resistanc movement say that Kabul-Qandahar highway can totally be blocked by capturing Qalat Ghilzai, which will further mount pressure on Qandahar.
 MUJAHIDEEN       LAUNCH
 ROCKET ATTACK ON QANDAHAR CANTT
   In the Afghan provinces of
 Helmand and Qandahar, the Mujahideen wiped out a security post besides damaging a Khad office during the guerilla operations.
    According to the AAP sources, a group of urban guerilla Mujahideen conducted rocket attack on Qandahar cantonment from the military camp of Qila Murad on the morning of October 9 The Khad office in Qandahar cantonment was badly damaged by rocket fire where four officials including an officer were killed The Mujahideen captured the military camp of Oila Murad two days earlier as a result of which the link between Qandahar cantonment and the airport was cut off The military camp was still in the occupation of Mujahideen till the report of October 12
    Another report from Helmand province adds that the Mujahideen, on October 7. destroyed a security post near sub-divisinal town Yakh Chal on the highway leading towards Herat During the fierce fighting lhe puppet troops stationed at the security post fled away towards provincial headquarter Lashkargah carrying several dead bodies and the injured A tank and a truck were also destroyed by rocket fire in the operation. The Mujahideen seized sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition from the security post
 GUERILLA OPERATIONS IN SAMANGAN
    In the north Afghan province of Samangan, the Mujahideen seized heavy arms and ammunition when they attacked two security posts near Aibak, the provincial headquarter
     According to the reports the fierce clash resulted in the killing and injuring of ten Kabul troops while a Mujahid was martyred and three others sustained injuries The operation was conducted by the Mujahideen of Hizb-e-lslami and Jamiat-e-Islapni. The Mujahideen conducted shelling on Aibak cantonment, as a result of which two official buildings and military installations were severely damaged
 SOVIET TRANSPORT PLANE DOWN AT KHOST
     The Khost front in Paktia province is again gaining the momentum which had attracted the world media in the beginning of the year
     The AAP sources report that large number Mujahideen led by commander Eng Faiz Mohammad,         Commander
 Hazarat Mohammad and Maulana Jalauddin Haqqani of Paktia province are engaged at Khost It was learnt that a Soviet transport plane was shot down by heavy machine gun when it was landing at Khost airport The plane was hit by a Mujahid Daulat Khan under the command of Mannan Kochi. The transport plane crashed at the place Ghalang in the north-west of Khost killing the pilot and the crew on the spot, on October 11. The Khost front is equally important for both Mujahideen and invading Soviet authorities where the armoured units had to suffer heavy losses during the fierce fighting in January last. The political circles of the resistance movement are of the opinion that after the occupation of Khost, the troops of Kabul regime cannot make long resistance at Gardez and Pul-e-Alam Moreover the Pakistan will
The Mujahideen Monthly
77
November 1988
 also be safe to some extant at its western border from Soviet pressure after the Mujahideen's control in the provinces of Kunar, Logar, Paktia and Paktika.
 SITUATION IN KUNAR VALLEY
    The Mujahideen sources have claimed that they have gained final victory in Kunar province after getting control of subdivisional headquarters Chokai, Khan Ghundi and Babro Kundak
    According to the sources hundreds of kalashnikov rifles, heavy arms and military supplies were seizd by the Mujahideen
 MUJAHIDEEN OPERATION ON SALANG HIGHWAY
    The Afghan freedom fighters stormed at a mobile force and captured heavy arms during the attack near sub-divisional headquarter Khinjan of Baghlan province, 162 kilometre from Kabul
    The AAP sources report that during the operation, on October 9, nine troops including a Soviet were killed while a machine gun and 14 kalashnikov rifles were seized. In the same area a commander of Kabul regime joined the ranks of Mujahideen alongwith his two companions. Mujahid commander Soofi Painda Mohammad Khan was leading the Mujahideen.
 SOVIET BOMBING NEAR JALALABAD
    After capturing ten security posts on Kabul-Jalal bad highway, the Soviet planes are bombing the Mujahideen positions in Sarobi area.
    According to the reports six
 Mujahids and several civilians were martyred during the bombing while over 60 houses turned into rubble in the rural localities.
 KABUL                 RADIO
 CONTRADICTORY REPORTS
    The state controlled Radio of Kabul regime has contradicted its own broadcast by denying and confirming the Mujahideen's occupatin of Asadabad the headquarter of Kunar province
    The Kabul Radio during its Pir-hto broadcast denied the Mujahideen claim about the occupation ol Asadabad However, the same day, the Radio confirmed the Mujahideen's occupation in Urdu and English news. According to Radio the puppet regime is holding talk with the "opponents" about Asadabad
 MUJAHIDEEN STRATEGY TO LIBERATE PAKTIA PROVINCE
    The Mujahideen have again besieged the border cantonment of Khost after ten months in connection with to liberate the Paktia province
    The AAP sources giving the details of the Khost front said that the meeting of local commanders associated with Seven Party Alliance held at Jehad Wal base of H I.A, where the plane to capture the Khost garrison was finalised According to the reports, the Mujahideen has constructed concrete bunkers from three sides of Khost cantonment.
 OPERATION IN FARAH PROVINCE
    The Afghan Mujahideen stormed at a military convoy
 near sub-divisional headquarter Khak-e-Safaid in the north of Farah town on October 10.
    During the swift attack an armoured vehicle and two jeeps were hit by rocket launchers while seven puppet troops were killed and injured. The Mujahideen moved back before the arrival of reinforcement alongwith two dead bodies of their companions
 MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURE SECURITY POST NEAR KHOST
    The Afghan Mujahideen have succeeded to capture a remote military centre in the south of Khost front.
    The eyewitness told AAP that a group of Mujahideen captured a security post of Spin Kai on October 14 During the operation, a total of n Kabul troops were captured and four others were killed The Mujahideen seized one machine gun and a wireless set besides 18 kalashnikov rifles.
 LARGE SCALE DEFECTIONS FROM KABUL TROOPS
    The commander of the 9th division of Afghan army Colonel Noor Ahmed, who defected to the Mujahideen with six army officers and 150 troops from Asmar cantonment, said that the Kabul army was day by day collapsing.
    The division commander joined the Mujahideen of commander Kashmir Khan of Hezb-i-lslami stated that the number of the Afghan army was fast diminishing despite the campaigns for conscription.
    He told AAP in Peshawa'r
The Mujahideen Monthly
48
November 1988
 that those who were forcibly recruited run away alongwith arms and ammunition and join the Mujahideen. Giving an estimate of his division, he pointed out that in a division there should be 12,000 men but at present in the 9th division the number was cut down to 834 only Similarly there should be
 36 heavy guns and 35 tanks with a division but there were only 12 heavy guns and five tanks and there were 15 armoured vehicles.
     The commander pointed out that the Afghan army was demoralised and had lost its aggressive capability and could not conduct any operation independently He said that the entire army wanted to flee away and defect but they had been kept in the encirclement of mined areas.
 AFGHAN            COMMANDER
 PREDICTS FALL OF NAJIB ADMINISTRATION
    Incharge of Asmar Brigade. Major Abdul Ghafoor Chopan who defected to the Mujahideen and helped them to capture Asmar town, has said that the overwhelming majority of the urban areas controlled by the Kabul administration were with the Mujahideen, this was they were conducting successful operations within cities and towns
    He told AAP In Peshawar that the Najib administration claim to construct a network of security fortresses around Kabul
 to make unconqurreable but Afghan capital was being hit by havan (mortar) guns with a range of three kilometres. This was sufficient proof that the people in Kabul were providing help to the Mujahideen.
     He asserted that the days of Najib administration were numbered and the Mujahideen would be able to liberate whole of Afghanistan He declared that it was his determination to fight against Soviet troops side by side with Mujahideen and would
drive them     out of their 
  homeland                  
     Those present   on the 
occasion   were       Major 
Mohammad    Jaffer  Mamoon. 
 Senior Captain Ali Ahmed Salarzai, Major Mohammad Ghani, Captain Ashiqullah and Captain Sher Azam They pointed out that it was being propagated that those who loined the Mujahideen were maltreated but they said that it was all false and concocted story. They conveyed a message through the press and media to those who wanted to defect that they must not be misled by any propaganda based falsehood and should join the Mujahideen without further wastage of time They should avail of the amensty announcement by the Mujahideen
 OPERATIONS IN TAKHAR AND WARDAK
    It was learnt that the series of Soviet bombing conducted to dislodge Mujahideen from Talqan provincial headquarter. Seven Mujahids and three civilians were martyred by the bombing on October 7, while 17 were injured
    According to a report received from Wardak province, bombing was conducted in Qarya Aab and other rural areas in Shaneez Pass near Saidabad, where four persons were injured and many houses destroyed
 GUERILLA OPERATIONS IN GHAZNI. HEART AND FARIAB PROVINCES
    Kabul Radio confirmed reports of fighting in Badakhshan and Samangan provinces bordering the Soviet Union besides Ghazni, Herat and Fariab In the clash 48 people were killed and dozens of others were injured.
    According to the Radio monitoring 25 people were killed in the clashes between the Kabul forces and the "armed opponents" near Herat city on October 17 while 18 persons were killed and over 100 sustained injuries in Fariab. Samangan and Badakhshan provinces
    The Khad office in Ghazni was hit by the Mujahideen according to the Radio where five office bearers including two women were killed. The Radio did not mention the losses suffered by the Soviet-Kabul troops in the attacks.
 SOVIET BOMBING IN QANDAHAR’S LIBERATED AREA
    The Mujahideen foiled an attempt of the armoured units of the Kabul army in Takhta Pul. liberated area of Qandahar. The operation was aimed at recapturing the town.
    According to the report the Kabul administration troops helped by the airforce advanced towards Takhta Pul town on October 18. However the Mujahideen encircled the troops. The Mujahideen forced to flee away the invading forces after a day long fighting They withdrew towards Qandahar after suffering
The Mujahideen Monthly
49
November 1988
 heavy losses Kabul Radio has reported that five people were killed and several others were injured during the fighting The report further said that the planes aiding the ground forces dropped bombs which could not hit the target. The bombs exploded in the rural localities but the losses occuring thc<r-could not be confirmed
AFGHANISTAN'S SITUATION TENSE - RADIO MOSCOW
    The Moscow Radio quoting spokesman of soviet Foreign Ministry said that situation in Afghanistan is still tense like in the past.
    According to the Radio Soviet spokesman Gennady Grassimov during the press briefing mentioned the killing of Abdul Shakoor and Mansoor Ahmed Khan, the high ranking officials of the ruling party who were killed in Herat. The spokesman said that over 1000 officials were killed during the last eight years.
OPERATION IN KUNDUZ
    The         Hizb-e-lslami
Mujahideen, on October 13, stormed at a security post near Qandahar city.
    According to the reports the Soviet troops fled away carrying a dead body and three injured during the swift operation. The Mujahideen seized arms and ammunition from the security post and moved towards safe places before the arrival of reinforcement.
AFGHAN PROBLEM IS DANGEROUS FOR REGIONAL PEACE
    The Puppet Kabul regime
 has also mentioned the Afghan problem as constant danger for the regional peace.
    The Kabul Radio has included India in the countries who are directly affected by Afghan problem. According to the Radio present situation of
 Afghanistan is harmful which cannot be solved even by Geneva accord
 OUTPOST NEAR QANDAHAR CAPTURED BY MUJAHIDEEN
    The Mujahideen in a swift operation captured Chehl Zeena military camp close to Qandahar city where 20 Kabul troops were killed and injured while 12 others were arrested The Mujahideen are also reported to have seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition during the operation on October 19 Four tanks were destroyed at the place
    The captured military camp is of most strategic importance and is set up a the hill top at Surpooza From this post, Qandahar city and the airport can be targeted easily However, there wao still a large quantity of oil which is now in the possession of the Mujahideen.
    Chehl Zeena is based on forty step passage to the hill and the former Afghan government had set up posts on the top of the hill. There is also Radar system operative there which captured by the Mujahideen The Mujahideen have established their positions at the post
 ZARMAL HEADQUARTER LIBERATED BY MUJAHIDEEN
    The Mujahideen liberated the Zurmat sub-divisional headquarter in Paktia on
  October 17 Several troops were killed or injured in the operation.
     The Mujahideen captured from the place three tanks, two heavy machine gunds, seven military vehicles and dozens of boxes full of hand grenades
     The same day an army officer from a military post near Gardez joined the Mujahideen alongwith 13 troops
 SOVIET HELICOPTER DOWNED IN GHAZNI
      The Afghan freedom fighters shot down a Soviet helicopter gunship near Muqar town on Kabul Qandahar highway, 182 kilometres from Ghazni.
      According to the reports, the helicopter was straffing the Mujahideen positions in area when it was hit by the rocket. The helicopter crashed as it
The Mujahideen Monthly
50
November 1988
 caught fired by the rocket. The Soviet pillot and the crew of the helicopter were killed on the spot. The Mujahideen captured a machine gun and other arms from the wreckage of the helicopter.
 KABUL:
    The details of the Mujahideen’s attack on Afghan capital Kabul indicated that the official buildings Khana-e-Khalq and Darul Aman were severely affected during the shelling on Oct. 21. The other losses occured during the operation could not be confirmed.
 SOVIET PLANES BOMB SECURITY POST NEAR KABUL
    Over 20 Kabul troops were killed and injured during the bombing of Soviet planes in Deh Sabz area, 14 kilometer north of Kabul on the morning of October 17.
     According to the AAP sources the Soviet planes hit the security post of puppet regieme when the planes were searching the Mujahideen positions. The building of the security post reduced into rubble during the bombing.
     The same day the Mujahideen shelled Bagram airbase where invading forces had to suffer severe losses The Afghan freedom fighters also frustrated a military operation which aimed at to recapture the librated area of Deh Sabz. It was learnt that the invading forces fled away leaving behind the wreckage of two tanks, a vehicle and a heavy gun. In a course of offensive several Soviet troops were killed including two high ranking officers.
 MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED FIVE PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTER IN AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                       After capturing Mehmood
 Raqi the captial of Kapisa province, the Mujahideen are now controlling five provincial headquarters in Afghanistan
     According to the reports the Mujahideen attacked on Mehmood Raqi on October 18 and captured it after week long resistance. Most of the officials and the troops of Kabul regime were arrested but the provincial Governor was escaped. It is to be noted that Taloqan, Bamiyan, Asadabad and Shama, the headquarters of Takhar, Bamiyan, Kunar and Paktika are already under the control of Mujahideen.
    The reports adds the Mujahideen seized a machine gun and 15 rifles of a mobile force near Najrab town where a Mujahid was martyred and eight puppet troops were killed and injured.
                                                                                                In the meanwhile three security force were wiped out by
The Mujahideen Monthly
51
November 1988
 the Mujahideed on Salang highway in Parwan province. During the clash a Mujahid Fazal Ahad was martyred while the Kabul troops fled away carrying several dead bodies and the injured. In the course of another operation in Qila Murad Beg area, a Mujahid lost his life and three others were injured.
 SOVIET TROOPS VACATE PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTER ON SALANG HIGHWAY
     The Mujahideen led by commander Engineering Tariq conducted attack in Robat area of Parwan province on October 20, as a result of which four Kabul administration troops were killed and a jeep was destroyed, while the Mujahideen captured a truck.
     In the same province, an Afghan militia commander Faiz Mohammad Khan joined the Mujahideen with his 25 soldiers and arms and ammunition, the same day, as a result of the shelling conducted by the Kabul administration forces in Said Khel area a Mujahid and two innocent children were killed.
     According to another report received from Ustad Farid commander of Parwan province, the Soviet troops withdrew from Gulbahar. The re port further said that the Kabul administration officers and men were destroying their belongings In Gulbahar and the provincial headquarter of Charikar so that they could easily flee away towards Kabul. In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen seized an army truck on Mazar Sharif highway in Pul-e-Khumri in Baghlan province on October
 18. . _____________*
   QANDAHAR OPERATIONS The Mujahideen conducted
   an operation in Qandahar wherein they killed and injured eleven troops while a tank and two army vehicles were destroyed.
      According to the report the Mujahideen conducted an attack on the Kuchi army post close to the city, killing and injuring eleven troops. A tank and two army vehicles were destroyed during the attack. The Mujahideen captured a machine gun and other arms and moved back unhurt.
   SOVIETS MEASURES TO PROTECT JALALABAD
      After capturing Kunar and Kapisa provinces, the
   Mujahideen are engaged . In mounting pressure on Jalalabad for the protection of which the Soviets have sent some troops.
      According to the sources of the AAP 2,200 troops of the Seventh and Eighth Division In Qargha garrison of Kabul had been sent to Jalalabad. The
troops being sent to Jalabad had fled away to Samar Khel after occupation of Asadabad by the Mujahideen.
    It is learnt that a Mujahideen group launched a rocket attack on a security post in the vicinity of Jalalabad on October 23, where a Kabul soldier was killed and three others were injured. The same day the Mujahideen hit Jalabad cantonment. However the losses taking place there could not be confirmed.
    According to the details of the occupation of Mahmood Raqi, Kapisa's headquarter, 40 Kabul administration troops were killed or injured and three tanks and five vehicles were destroyed. Led by Hizb-e-lslami commander Ustad Farid in the attack to capture the provincial headquarter, the Mujahideen seized eight trucks, an armoured vehicle, three heavy machine guns and 160 kalashnikov rifles in addition to a sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition. The resistance sources said that the Mujahideen have become more
The Mujahideen Monthly
52
November 1988
active in Parwan and Baghlan provinces along the Salang highway.
washed and getting "ideological training" were conscripted by the invading Soviet authorities.
strike at the security post of Siah Koh and Koh-e-Mulla on October 22.
A COLONEL KILLED IN GUERILLA OPERATION
    The Mujahideen fired rockets near Qalat Ghilzai, headquarter of Zabul province, located on the Kabul-Qandahar highway, where a jeep and an armoured vehicle were destroyed. The jeep was boarded by Qalat Ghilzai's commander Colonel Sultan Azizi who was killed along with two body guards and the driver. The armoured vehicle accompanying the jeep was also destroyed. However the crew managed to escape.
SOVIET          AUTHORITIES
CONSCRIPT AFGHAN YOUTH
    About 2,000 Afghan youth out of 15,000 reached Afghanistan after being brain
      Giving the details, the AAP sources report that the Afghan youth reached Afghanistan have been sent to Jalalabad were 2,500 puppet troops have already been drawn from the Qargha garrison of Kabul. The Soviet authorities making the Afghan youth as fuel of the war anticipating the reducing figure of the Kabul troops.
     According to these sources over 13,000 Afghan youth are still in Moscow and other cities for which their parents had expressed their severe resentment to bring back their children immediately.
OPERATION IN WARDAK PROVINCE
   The Afghan freedom fighters led by commander Ammanullah
     In the course of swift operation, the MujahideeH seized two machine guns, one
 rocket launcher and 28 kalashnikov rifles while 14 Kabul troops including an officer were killed and injured. The invading forces conducted shelling on the rural localities afterwards as a result of which two women were martyred and two children were Injured.
      The same day, a mobile force encircled the Mujahideen group in JaJrez area where three Mujahideen of Hizb-e-lslami Faiz Mohammad Khan, Abdur Rashid and Mulla Abdul Qadeer lost their lives. The Mujahideen broke the encirclment after stiff resistance and moved back towards safe places.
The Mujahideen Monthly
53
November 1988
                                                                     
Send your donation to the Mujahideen on the following bank account.  
                  BANKING ADDRESS,                                   
Hczbi Islami Afghanistan. Hezbi Islami Afghanistan.                  
HABIB BANK LIMITED        HABIB BANK LIMITED                         
City Branch Peshawar      Cantt Branch Peshawar                      
Rs. A/c. No. 18092---8    A/C. No. Fc cD 50                          
Rupees                    Foreign Currency                           
                                                                     
 ------------------------------------sgjgg)
  Send your subscription on the above bank account and notify us through a photo copy of the cheque on our mailing address:
                                                                                  The Mujahideen Monthly P.O. Box 1014 University Town Pshawar, Pakistan
\
The Mujahideen Monthly
'54
November 1988
       Mr. Diego Cordovez disapproves the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM), on a baseless ground, we want him respectfully to answer that how many Uzbaks, Turkmans, Qazaks, Qarghizis, Armenians, Azarbaijanis, Ukrainians, Lithuanians etc are there in the Polit Buro and Central Committee of Kremlin.
     As the answer is clearly ’’none", we suggest to Mr. Cordovez to exercise his proposals of Broad-based and Loi Jirgah in USSR to see whether they work or not.
     The populations of the above depressed and deprived nationalities in USSR is several times more than the Afghans. They also,on principle, deserve the right to speak for theselves.
     Would it not be much better for Mr. Cordovez to raise this important matter with Gorbachev to relieve millions of peoples from Russian dictatorship p
Hekmatyar’s visit to Qandahar