#
Cuellar
Formulla fails to make headway

ft
AC KU

J
Hezb-i-IsIami Afghanistan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            j
      We want to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan that is independent, non-aligned and Islamically elected. Our Jihad will continue until this goal is a reality.
      We insist on election as the only practical way for solving the current Afghan crisis. No other than an elected Islamic government will be able to put an end to the war and establish durable and security in Afghanistan.
      The internal and external policy of our government will be based on Qur’an and Sunnah. We will make independent judgements on all international issues and mainta in friendly relations with all states except those that are engaging in activities deterimental to our faith, independence and territorial integrity.
measures to protect the rights of all Afghan nationals and will promote science and technology for the reconstruction,
Founded By Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan
 TABLE OF CONTENTS
S. No. ARTICLE             Page
01 Editorial                                  03 
02 A new global order                         04 
03 Hekmatyar takes Ulema into conference      05 
04 The Real enemy                             06 
05 Mujahideen recapture positions in Logar    08 
06 World politics at a glance                 09 
07 The Mirror of Time                         10 
08 Najib's Ouster must                        14 
09 American-Jewish committee                  15 
10 IGP denies refugees' involvement in crimes 19 
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 02
11 Cuellar formula fails make headway        20 
12 Man and Revolution                        21 
13 Jihad in full swing                       23 
14 Farooq-e-Azam                             24 
15 Hijra Calender and Hijrat                 25 
16 Mujahideen cut off supplies to Kabul      26 
17 Palestine-The Intifadah movement          27 
18 Intrigues of power                        28 
19 HIA leader, Velayati discuss Afghan issue 31 
20 Kashmir-Give them what they want          32 
21 Mossad also active in Afghanistan         33 
22 Eritrean Islamic movement                 34 
23 Commentary                                36 
24 Islam's Answer to racial discrimination   38 
25 The Unbroken Chain                        43 
26 AI-Quds--Through the Ages                 47 
YOU CAN GET OUR MAGAZINE FROM THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
TO:               TO:                         
AUKHAN            GULZAI                      
P.O. BOX #3081    GEORGIA COLLEGE             
NEW DELHI 110003  C.P. BOX #1000              
INDIA             MILLEDGEVILLE               
TO:               G.A.31061-1000              
AHMAD SHAH QAYUMI USA                         
GROFTHO JPARKEN,  TO:                         
157TH             IAM                         
8260-VIBY-J       ARY SCHEFFER STR. 10        
ARHUS-DENMARK     2597 WDENHAG                
TO:               HOLAND                      
IAM               TO:                         
46 AVENUEDE       M. SHARIF AMIN 10-44-EPPING 
TERVUREN          ROAD-LANE COVE              
1040BRUXLLES      (NSW) 2066                  
BELGIQUE          AUSTRALIA                   
TO:               TO:                         
P.O. BOX# 443     HIA                         
FLUSHING. Y 11352 THEATHERSTR. 12             
USA               53BONN1                     
                  WESTGERMANY                 
 TO:
 IDA
 BM BOX#
 2084
 LONDON WCIN 3 XX ENGLAND
 TO:
 IDA
 H#B-40 BLOCK ABDUL H ASS AN ASFHANI ROAD HULSH AN-E-IQB AL KARACHI 47 KARACHI
 TO:
 AFGIIANMUJAHIDEEN
 INFORMATION
 BUREAU 14126SIIERMAN
 WASDY+201
 VANNUYS.CA
 91405
 USA
 TO:
 J-MANSOOR 61 FRANEL-CR WESTTON-DNT M91-IB6 CANADA
 TO:
 HIA
 15.RUEDE PROG RES 93230 ROM AINVILLE FRANCE
  TO:
  IAM
  P.O. BOX #394 STATION (O 0 M4A
  2N9 TORONTOONTARIO CANADA
TO:
O.A.M
902/4 JALAN TUN ISMAIL
KUALALUMPUR MALAYSIA
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 03
      Editorial
  Solution lies in Jihad

          All talks of political solutions by United States are directed towards the instalment of such a regime in Kabul which fits into the scheme of Bush’s New World order. America is well aware that a regime with strong Islamic credential would pose a threat to her imperialistic designs in this region in particular and globally in general.
          America is also unhappy over the principled stand taken by leaders like Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar and Prof.
          With the crushing defeat of Soviet Union at the hands of Afghan Mujahideen, Kremlinnow finds it difficult even to keep its ownempire intact. The changes in the Eastern Europe also demonstrated that communism as a system had breathed its last. The America and it Western allies no more fear communism a force, to reckon with. The only challenge to the supremacy of American imperialism and its New Word order is nothing but Islam. This is why American policy of “containment of communism” has now been replaced by “containment of Islam”. Seen in this background America is trying her best to keep true Afghan Mujahideen, whom the west term as “Muslim fundamentalist” out of the corridors of power in future Afghanistan.
Sayyaf during the Gulf war.
          The fall of Khost which came as a shock for White House because it proved that Mujahideen are capable of defeating puppet regime on battle front. In deed the historical victory of Afghan Mujahideen at Khost was more shocking to Washington than anyone else because she was busy in convincing the international community that Mujahideen were not capable of scoring militaiy gains on war front The victory poured cold water on her evil designs. The fall of Khost, however, served as an alarm for Washington and she intensified her efforts for a political solution of its liking.
          Thanks to Almighty Allah that
           International conspiracies to block the formation of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan are not something new. The Afghan Mujahideen, who kicked Russian forces out of Afghanistan, had waged their Jihad not only to liberate their soil from foreign occupation forces but also to establish a system in Afghanistan which would be based on the teaching of Allah Almighty and Holy Prophet (PBUH).
Afghan Mujahideen a.e well aware of the conspiracies being hatched by America, her western allies and Soviet Union. All major Mujahideen organizations and military commanders have outrightly rejected all American sponsored formulae of political solution of Afghan problem. They have set their eyes on their goal i.e the formation of an Islamic state in Afghanistan, which would be free from all kind of political, social and economic exploitation.
    Afghan Mujahideen understand that realization of their mission is possible only through Jihad. And there are fresh reports pouring in which speak of more victories of Mujahideen on different fronts in Afghanistan, giving credence to the belief that military victory of Afghan Mujahideen is on the cards.
    Indo-Israeli collaboration against Muslim world in general and Pakistan in particular is not something new but the shootout between Kashmiri Mujahideen and Israeli commandoes, in the garb of tourists, confirmed beyond doubt the existence of a secret plot to attack nuclear installations of Pakistan at Kahuta.
          The Mujahideen of Kashmir should feel proud of their extra-ordinary feat which exposed Indo-Israeli designs both against Pakistan and their sacred Jihad against the Indian occupation forces. The Israeli’s posses a long experience of brutally suppressing intifadah in Palestine and it seems as if their Indian collaborators also want to learn from their experience.
           The presence of Israeli military men in Indian held Kashmir should serve as an alarm for the Pakistan and one hopes that government of Pakistan would be well aware of its responsibilities to respond to the challenge posed to its security and especially its nuclear installation from the joint RAW-MOSAD threat.
Indo-Israeli collaboration
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991                             ^
          The near total destruction of communism as a potent global ideological force, has infact buttressed Washington questionable declaration of building a new global order.
          The West should with all humility and diligence, be grateful to Mr. Grobechev for awarding it this unique opportunity through an ill-conceived perestroika and a poorly executed glasnost. Moscow may never be what it used to be ag ain as one of the most important capitals on our planet or at least for some years to come and the obituary of Marxism which courageously signed by the Mujahideen in Afghanistan has indeed sealed permanently the role of communism in global ideological struggle.
          The daily confidence that beams uninteruptedly from the White House, is therefore understandable. President Bush throughout his Desert Shield-and-Storm operations did repeatedly try to carry the apparently innocent American populace with him on the necessity of restructuring the world geo-political order so much as to successfully protect Western interests around the globe at least for our own age.
          What exactly Mr. Bush envisages for the world and consequently for hum anity including unborn genertations ahead, is an arrangement whereby a new socio-political solar system would be constructed having Washington alone as its undisputable centre and around which all other capitals in the world are to revolve. The gravitational force to keep every planet in position is the sum of political terrorism plus dollar-diplomacy. Here, the White House and Pentagon would not only play the tragic triple roles of being the plaintiff, prosecutor and jury at the same
 time through the sheer use of sophisticated military arsenals and massive armed intervention as in the Persian Gulf but also fulfil their primary duty of serving as the most formidable guarantor of capitalism in the next inevitable ideological showdown.
          Though the next victim to bear the brunt of another Western dictated U.N...” imperial peace-fire” and “humanitarian” economic sanctions is yet to be publicly identified by name, but all indications strongly point to the so-called Muslim militant fundamentalism. Till date, nothing has frightened Western leaders nor threatened Zionist controlled capitalist system more than Islamic resurgence.
          Well, George Bush as an elected president of an independent nation, and capitalism as a contemporary ideology competing for dominance on earth and maybe on the moon and s tars, do retain the implicable rights of laying bare their visionary plans and telling us what exactly their cherished hopes are, on the common world we all live in. Here, as in other places, the rule of the game mustbe obeyed. You can’t destroy the liberty and freedom of other nations in the name of democracy. This is a contradiction in mode and implications. If such a basic and obvious line is not drawn between what the West sets as its aims and what more than 80% of the world sees as its right then the result would surely be catastrophic.
          We must accept the natural distinctions between the goals and methods. If both are not complemetary in operations, they must never be anti-thesis of each other or else Nazist and other fascist ideologies would have got the best justifications in trying to forcefully subjugate other so-called sovereign states regardless of all accepted international norms. The on-going effects of
 shameful diplomatic manipulations of a supposedly respectable body of international communities presently prosecuted by the self appointed champions of fundamental human rights, and its subsequent outrageous political terrorism of the Third World, through draconian resolutions are what makes the whole Washington New World Order questionable.
          Many puzzles could be raised here: Will the oppressed people on our planet willingly accept such audacious impositions? Will revolutionary movements all over the world allow themselves to be intimidated by brute mechanical military superiority, backed by a virtually empty shell of an over-inflated ideological balloon, which is ready to burst at the smallest frictional exposure to concentrated ideological challenge? These are infact the real issues and care must be taken in not laying the foundation for another World War by all means.
          The idea of a new global structure is as excellent as it was old. What matters actually is the unresolved questions of whose order? For all men or for a clique of rulers? For the good of a particular country or group of nations or for the benefit of the entire human race including future generations?
          To be able to resolve these paradoxes is to understand the fundamental Islamic revolutionary message that keeps revibrating in many places and in different forms through-out ages. The struggle will continue and our globe today too is a witness to this bitter reality. Let Washington say what ever it wants. Nobody can deny these Allah-given rights of expression and ambition awarded to H is creatures. B ut in practical life it is not what today is that counts, but what tomorrow will be. In Allah therefore we put our trusts. ||;tl
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 05
Policies of HIA
'I
Hekmatyar Takes Ulema Into Confidence
 By Israrullah Khan
Ulema that Washington want to compensate Moscow for the concessions it allowed to US A in Africa and also for its support during
at length on Afghanistan issue and explained policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan in the best interests of Islam and
         A big gathering of Afghan Ulema has endorsedpolicies of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan on Afghan issue and vowed to continue Jihad till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         The Ulema who gathered at Jihad University in the afternoon of July 28 at Peshawar passed various resolutions, rejecting any kind of coalition with Najib or members ofhis communist party or the former Afghan monarchZahir Shah or his colleagues.
         The Ulema also resolved to continue Jihad till establishment of anlslamic government in Afghanistan. They also pledged to resist any imposed solution of Afghan problem and pledged to hold up their arms till the removal of Najib regime.
         The Ulema conference was arranged to get opinion of the Ulema on various policies adopted by the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan in connection with the Afghan Jihad.
         Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghani-stan Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar who spoke on the occasion, dwelt
Afghan people.
          Engineer Hekmatyar blamed Moscow and Washington for continued bloodshed in Afghanistan, adding, that both of the superpowers have joined hands against Islam and its true followers.
          He blamed both Moscow and Washington for prolongation of war in order to establish a government of their own choice or otherwise turn Afghanistan into another
Lebanon. He, however, vowed to continue Jihad until the establishment of an Islamic government, reflecting aspirations of Afghan nation.
 Gulf Crisis.
          He said that if foreign interference is stopped in Afghanistan, war will come to an end and people of Afghanistan would he able to establish a government of their own choice.
          Engineer Hekmatyar also paid rich tributes to the Afghan Ulema for their practical participation in Afghan Jihad and preparing the who nation for Jihad against communists.
          Well aware of the importance of the Unity, Engineer Hekmatyar announced that his party is ready to accept any proposal for the unification of all Jihad organizations. He, howeversuggested the formation of a joint institution for launching unified attacks against enemy, if other majorpolitical points donot agree to form a grand unity of Mujahideen. He also suggested formation of a limited Shoora, comprising of heads of Mujahideen organizations only, for the supervision of such an institution.
          Engineer Hekmatyar further said that such a joint military institution could be entrusted the task of holding election after removal of Najib regime within a stipulated period; so that an elected Shoora is formed and an Islamic government established in Afghanistan.
          Rejecting Cuellar formula for solution of Afghan problem, he said Muj ahideen would never accept communists in their ranks. He said the formula seems to have been masterminded by such countries, having rested interests in Afghanistan.
          The overwhelming support which Afghan Ulema extended to the policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, have tremendously strengthenedhandsofits Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar at such a critical juncture of Afghan nation, when enemies of Islam are leaving no stone unturned to block the formation of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan.
^The overwhelming support which Afghan Ulema ^ extended to the policies adopted by Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, have tremendously strengthened hands of its Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar at such a critical juncture of Afghan nation, when enemies of Islam are
yfa true Islamic government in Afghanistan. J
 Engineer Hekmatyar reminded
 V/'
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
\?age 06
   The aim of Islamic revolutionary movement is actually not to personify its slruggle....even if the removal of a despot and his governors is a necessity for a fundamental change... Abu Abdullah argues here that it is the oppressive socio-political system which produces arid meantains tyrants
                                            in power that must be taken as....
         The path to a fundamental socio-political change in any society could not but be bloody and hazardous. An oppressive community by definitation is such a society that consciously allows or inadvertently encourages the selfish interests of a few to overide the common wishes and collective rights of the generality.
         The driving motive behind Afghan Islamic resistance could also be understood from this perspective. There is the outside imperialists represented today by Washington or Moscow. Similarly, we have the puppet regime in Kabul formed from a broad alliance of secularists, Marxists, Conservative tribal lords, self-made nationalists standing beside their colonialist godfathers. Within the emigrant populace reside too the monarchists, opportunists, so-called moderates and other anti-Islamic forces.
         To change the fundamental socio-political set-, up of the old Afghanistan in view of the active collaboration between these various segments of oppressive machinery cannot but be a difficult task. Though it has taken twelve long years in liberating a greater portion of the entire nation from the anti-Islamic ruling alliance but these spent days could be regarded as good training period for Muslim Revolutionary struggle in Afghanistan in trying to transform itself from a mere local brigade of “Muslim fundamentalists” to a broad global movement for a lasting Islamic resurgence.
         The first observation therefore in this respect is to remind ourselves that the duty of presenting the Islamic case to the World, either to our co-believers in faith or non-Muslims or both, must never be allowed to be clouded with anti-Islamic orchestrated religious or partisan unrests. A good example in this context would be the Kunar episode and to quote Engineer Hekmatyar himself “It is a ploy by the enemies of Jihad that whenever they see the Mujahideen burying their differences, uniting their forces and marching to victory, diversionary scenes are created to obstruct their progress and give the false impression of disunity...”
From where does the puppet regime gets these sophisticated weapons
        However, there had been moments of trials and occasions of joy for the Mujahideen, a situation that makes Afghanistan an experimental laboratory for Islamic field work. Afghanistan therefore becomes unique as a global revolutionary specimen both in goals and operations. We must all draw lessons from the past so as to correct those avoidable errors that were committed as well as open-heartedly implement the accrued practical experiences of our fellow brothers-in Jihad through-out the Islamic World.
          With all sincerity, the Kunar case is just an illustration. The province apart from being among the first liberated areas to witness a free election, also enjoys the strategic importance of occupying a central position in linking Kabul with the North. Hekmatyar’s analysis is without doubt correct and timely judging by recent improvements in Mujahideen military strength and Western effort at breaking up the united Jihad front. We must ourselves note that the aim of Afghan Islamic revolution is not forcing anybody to become a Muslim,
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 07
 or soliciting for more fighters for Islamic cause at random or doggedly defending the indefensible at all costs during unavoidable crises.
         Our duty is to avoid sectarian theological dispute in all forms and any Muslim worker must first appreciate the importance of having a broad-based grasp of the TRUE Islamic perception of life. The major objectives before Islamic revolutionary development is infinitely larger than barren theoretical controversies. The world is a place of reality, and social unrest aimed at chagning an oppressive system formed over a long period of time and hardened up by the ironfist of local traditions must first and foremost be pragmatic in all its programmes. Its defenders must be oriented to rise above personal conflicts of ego and internal fightings based on non-issues and destructive squabblings.
         What is exactly intended here is that members of the highest body of any serious organization that coverts the ambitious role of serving as a dependable spokesgroup for the entire Ummah must fully comprehend those fundamentals which give Islamic revolution its unique character and permanent dynamism. The fulfillment of this is too necessary in today ’ s local and global ideological struggles.
         The second observation we must take total congnizance of is that of the unavoidable necessity of identifying who exactly the real enemy of a future Islamic Afghanistan is. Here too the adversary can not just be any person who raises up a resistance-flag to disturb the serenity of his neighbour-hood nor those
The end of the road: killed communist special squad
 opportunist political manupulators who frequently mount religious pulpits at least once a week to gain popular recognition and international popularity by instigating inter-tribal animosity and partisan fueds. Though these
 quasi-religious zealots are without doubt obstructions on the path of any meaningful and progressive change in the nation, yet they are of a secondary importance and should therefore not be taken as primary.
wmm
               Captured enemy's tank
         The major reason why Afghan Jihad continues perpetually is that the very interests which imposed themselves on the people by denying them their basic right of self-determination and honorable participation in the affairs of their own community are still very much alive. The imperialists and their local sycophants gain one way or the other from the present existing sociopolitical and administrative orders in the country.
         As a result of this candid observation, we can say that, the eternal adversary of our Islamic revolutionary struggle is that very oppressive system, which deliberately props up mediocres into sensitive positions of authority, implants sectarian and partisan dogmas into the the psyche of the people and leaves the whole country in confusion and disorder by permitting treacherous government officials to get away happily with their crimes and ill-gotten booties.
         To destroy such a system appears more important than hair-splitting controversies on theological niceties and metaphysical dialectics. Our enemy is the existing state of things which callously abandons majority of the citizenry in abject penury and joyfully condemns the vibrant generation of our youths into sophisticated ignorance even after acquiring some elementary, secondary or so-called university education.
         The few people who managed to gain scholarships in higher colleges in Moscow, Washington or any other European capital return again to serve their benefactors. People therefore go to foreign universities to learn how best to marginalize their fellow country-mcn or in the alternative fit perfectly into the existing
                                                                                                              The Mujahideen, July /August, 1991
Page 08
 oppressive socio-political structure. It is always very rare to find any one today aiming high at destroying this rotten system and building in its stead a dynamic and productive Islamic Afghanistan.
         Our Muslim revolutionary struggle therefore is striving towards breaking the imperialist monopoly of domination over the country. Its two puppet allies of imposed Marxist regime and brain-washed, half-baked intellectuals are therefore going to face the toughest part of the contemporary ideological challenge. Afghanistan wants to vacate its almost permanent seat in the outcast group or poverty-striken class of the so-called Third World.
         This is the hope today and we should try as best as we could to recast our memory and vacate our steps in knowing why exactly generations after generations were denied. The entire country was plundered from east and west. Men women, children and aged were thrown into valleys of denial and brutally beaten into submission by the so-called traditional values of the society without justification in a manner hardly surpassed in history.
         We don’t want things to remain so and this is why the entire population must be thought how to countinue in living for constructive principles and not returning to the era of selfish interests. Not to teach this vigorously to our selves and hammer it into the minds of the children is to mortgage our lives and further generations to neo-colonialists and nuclear age imperialists.
         For these all we need a revived revolutionary understanding of Islam as a dynamic system of life and simultaneously reject completely that conservative religious way of thinking that seek to protect oppression in the name of faith.
         The next step therefore is to fight this tradional way of doing things with, the same vigour if not with a greater strength by which we are now combating the puppet regime in Kabul. The reason for this is obvious. Since if we are successful in removing foreign stooges represented by the Marxist-secularist alliance party, the act of reconstructing the country would be rendered impossible if the socio-political system itself docs not witness a real fundamental changes.
         In the world generally and as it is in Afghanistan particularly it is extremely difficult for any tyrant or despot to maintain its rule of terror and totalitarianism
 without having recourse to a permissible cultural base that keeps him and his heartless court in power.
        This system is therefore the main enemy and not the ruler, in as much as the former in most cases does not only create the latter but also guarantees a perpetuation of oppressive rule through his progeny for many
 generations, g
                                     ..... ... —. Mujahideen recapture position in
                                                             Logar
 V.______________________________________________ J
        Peshawar: Afghan Mujahideen in one of their massive joint operation in Logar province of Afghanistan Friday night claimed to have recaptured their lost positions, reports (ANA). Wireless reports of Mujahideen disclosed that they launched joint attacks on regime’s strong-holds all over the province.
        In the two-hour nightoffensives. Mujahideen captured a part of the Tangi Waghjan, Kunjak Hospital, Patho Ghundai, Niazi area and the former base of Lushkar Esar at Tangi Waghjan.
        Mujahideen were reported to be in position of the captured areas, while indiscriminate bombings continued on their trenches.
                After captured these areas, Mujahideen unleashed heavy artillery fire on regime’s installations at the capital of the province, Ali Malang area, upper Tangi Waghjan and certain parts of Mohammad Agha district.
        The regime forces were also returning Mujahideen fire, however Mujahideen claimed to have inflicted heavy losses on the regime troops. Casualty figures of the regime forces could not be estimated immediately.
        Four group commanders alongwith some Mujahideen are reported to have embraced martyrdom in these fighting. Their names could not be ascertained immediately. Fierce fighting was reported at different fronts between Mujahideen and the regime forces.
        Mujahideen have formed local Shoora for the supervision of these operations, which include the Mohammad Agha and Kulangar Shooras. Steps were also being taken to close the Kabul-Logar highway by Mujahideen. The highway if closed will ease pressure on Mujahideen forces.
        The joint attack on regime forces in Logar is a prelude to Mujahideen offensives in Nangarhar, Paktia, Kabul, Kandahar and other major cities under the regime control.
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
 Maulana Abdul Salam
          Afterworld war II, two powers emerged on world scene: USA and USSR. All other countries flocked around US and Russia which made two blocs namely the American and the Russian blocs. There was and still is a so-called bloc of the non Aligned movement (NAM). In reality there is no non aligned country in the world as the countries comprising that movement are attached to one bloc or the other. This was the real political map until recently when all changed. Because of its economic difficulties inside and its
 outside military adventures as in Afghanistan compelled Russia to abandon its superpower status thus making its major adversary America the sole superpower in the world. The recent Iraq-Allied conflict attested this fact. Russia did nothing more than consenting to what America willed in the Persian Gulf. The Russian humiliation did not end here. Now it has assumed the status ofaborrowingnation.lt demands economic aid from the West of which
 America is the leader.
        It is evident that the West will lend Russia only on its own preconditions. It is bound to circumscribe its power more. America* in the given conditions, has risen as the only super power in the world. We have an eye on the conduct of America also. We should see what it intends to do in the world. To survey the prospects we have the case study of the Gulf crisis. Iraq has been destroyed for its crime of attacking and capturing the sovereign state of Kuwait. It is being disarmed to save the world from its atrocities. Justice demands equal treatment. If Iraq is aggressor, Israel is
 the greatest aggressor and grabber of foreign land. But in place of punishing Israel it is being armed and made strong as a terrorist state. It can capture Palestine, attack Lebnon, Jordan, Syria and even Uganda without any fear of preventing it, what to speak ofpunishing. Likewise Pakistan is discriminated against India on the question of nuclear capability. India exploded its nuclear bombin 1974 but America ignored. But it is the Muslim Pakistan that is punished
 for its supposed nuclear capability . When Iran defied America it was destroyed through Iraq. Iraq too faced the same fate as these are the facts on the ground. One finds it difficult to understand what the American proposed new would order would be like.
         It is crystal clear this order is not going to be based on equality. What is right for one is wrong for the other. So who is to be deceived? Before the world wars I and II Britain was a great power. What order it had? To capture and grab the resources of the weaker nations. So does America. Its foundation has been laid in the Middle East It has taken the Arab oil in its control. On the other hand it has started to build its bases in the Gulf countries, oil trade will be at the disposal of the US. Any country going against the American will will face the consequences. Now America is world writ large. As it is what is to be done to save the nations of the world? A seemingly stratagem suggests the assemblage of Europe, Japan, Russia, China, and the nations of West Asia as a group against a possible US action against the interest of the nations mentioned here. It is unthinkable that the supremacy America has gained will not be used to further its own influence. It will do this at the cost of the others. The nations of the world must take some precautionary measures to ward off the menace.
         The Islamic countries are duty bound to think over the matter seriously. They are the direct target o f i mperial ism. They must get together to avoid the worst. Their inter-state relations be fashioned on the patten of a solid group as their interests are common they must help one another economically and politically. This will not be practical without sinking their internal differences. If they come together it will be difficult for any one to hit them.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
                Page 10
                        TOE MHKIR0K ©IF TTHMIE
                          MHHSMJE SASTT
                            iPOLmcs
Abu Abdullah

         It would be of much interest to know why the East and the West are so frightened by the thought of Muslim unity more than that of a nuclear holocaust hanging over their heads. Could it be fear of the clear stand of Islam in calling for a practical realization of freedom and true march towards a real perfect global order?
         Revolution we must accept as a concept is not new. Civil insurrections, mass demonstrations, armed uprisings and their like are not novel means of realising a fundamental socio-political change in the historical development process of the human race. It is indeed one of the greatest irunies of our time that the East which rose out of the ruins of a falling conservative and aristocratic empire through a radical revolution and the West which won its universal acceptance on the basis of a similar revolution espousing fundamentals of freedom and liberty, would both become front-line adversaries of an Islamic revolution that wants all men to be free and equal. It was not the objectives of Western or Eastern revolutions that were at fault, nor could it be that they are bad as historic mirror of the past, but the real problem is that of a few individuals who are not prepared to sacrifice their ill-gotten wealth and positions for a universal system that knows no evil in all forms. Such are the antagonists of popular changes. These are the real imperialists who act as Zionist agents around the globe.
         The allegation against the Islamic revolutions in the early 80s in Afghanistan as well as in Iran was that they sought a world free of oppressions. In fighting Islam in the region, a lot of barren Philosophies which alienated one
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Kuwait oil at blaze, Rafsanjani searching for a "safer" ground
 section of the people from others were deliberately formulated and injected to the main stream of Midle Eastern politics. Saddam Hussain received the best lectures in this respect and attended selected tutorial classes possible only for a spoilt child of the imperialists. Baghdad became the new capital of international policy of cloak-and-dagger and its regime imbibed well the norms of oppression. Imperialism seemed to have won the day and the ambition of Saddam Hussain was allowed to develop fully out of his Zionist orientation. The die appeared to have been cast and the regret of the world today deserves no pity.
        Strobe Talbott wrote late to explain away American boomeranged policies in the Middle East and other places and also tried though unconvincingly to exonerate the warhawks in the White House thus...”By concentrating its fury on one miscreant, the US has sometimes overlooked or even pampered another potentially greater source of trouble in the same region...’This is infact another case of begging the issue peculiar with most official and unofficial spoke-persons of the American ruling class. He has not enunciated what criteria are to be used in
 knowing who is miscreant from others. The learned writer has only explained how Saddam Hussain became an adopted son of the Zionist but failed woefully to say exactly which supreme interest governed American foreign policies. We on our part may ask that could it be :oil wealth .friendly despotic monarchies, co-operating totalitarian tyrannies, liberal democracies or the rule of law and fundamental human rights. Should American super might be a tool in protecting vested interests of a few government officials who have direc t or indirect econom ic investments to protect in the region? Or is America striving for the overall stability of the world and freedom of mankind?
         Therein lies the core of the whole problem. The blunders have been repeated many times as Talbott was later to admit with courage...” The American obsession with Cuba as the Soviet cat’s-Paw in the Western Hemisphere, was one factor that led Washington to support Panama’s Manuel Noriega..” But the US is not alone in its profligate soliloquizing for ever aiding Saddam against the Ayatollah. Saudi scholars too under the pressure of authoritarian monarchy have issued press statements
 calling Muslims all over the world to rise up in Jihad against the infidel B’athist! But if we are permitted to ask here again: Where were these learned scholars when Riyadh was pumping money into Baghdad to build the strongest “infidel” army in the region? Was it not the same Saddam Hussian who a decade ago was hailed as a hero of the Arab world? Did Iraqi aggression against a neighboring Muslim nation not pass away without the call of Jihad against Ba’athist oppression internally and externally? Who is therefore an infidel? Why is Saddam an infidel today and not yesterday? These questions are endless and their answers are simple. The so-called learned men are giving verdicts only to protect their own social status and the seat of authority monopolized by the ruling family rather than facing reality and delivering the trust of knowledge as demanded. These honorable scholars are of course not fooling the Muslim world but are surely in the contrary be littling themselves.
         The deposed king of Kuwait too after long years of conspiracy and intrigues against a fellow Muslim country decided finally to face reality by sending a special envoy to Tehran to
                                                      The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
seek...’’forgiveness for the old blunders of this part of the world or destroy Kuwait performed and the unjustjoleit -Ba’athism and ruin their future interests took with Iraq against Iran...’’-gWHhe in the whole region?
apology and regrets came about three weeks late. Sheikh Jabar Al-Sabah was by then no more a ruler, at least his kingdom had been reduced to mere province of a bigger Iraqi empire. The financial assets of both countries were announced then to be frozen all over the world. But in reality they remained flowing, enjoying the liquidity of hard currencies in fresh investment programmes by those few hawks that rob humanity to feed Zionism.
        Saddam is surely one of them, he appears to have understood the language of terror and violence faster and better than what his imperialist instructors had contemplated. His Ba’athism, though still needed to cause more problems in the zone is now told that it must definitely re-direct its priorities. The ambitions of the tyrant in Baghdad are surely damaging future plans of his god-fathers and exposing Zionism itself to a dangerous mass reprisals which none in the Mafia clique of oppressors could longer tolerate. The foreign guardians of Ba’athism are getting confused. Do they allow Saddam Hussain to threaten their own domination
         Even going by the loop-sided international ethics of today, Baghdad invasion of Iran was a naked aggression which if had been condemned earlier would have saved the world the last ordeal in Kuwait. The so-called vanguards of freedom and champions of liberty did not only condone such a blatant violation of accepted rules of neighborliness and an open negation of international treaties between two countries, but were for all practical purposes the real brain behind this global disaster. That was infact the first real comprehensive rehearsal Saddam underwent in the theater of dramatic belligerency. Here he knew how easy to get away with crimes of aggression if you have the “right guys” behind you. Since then he had never taken any international law, or pledge, nor agreement or ethics very seriously. But who has the moral courage today to blame Baghdad which is just starting the long journey of regional expansionism. Israel the illegitimate child of Western Democracy had been on colossal aggressive adventures three decades before Iraq invaded Iran and still at it today. Nobody cried foul, the heaven
    has not fallen, and may be it will never in our own time against the present oppressive global order.
             This was not a case of I international appeasement, rather, of r conspiratorial encouragement which was L faintly screened by sporadic Non-M Aligned movement plea for peaceful I settlement of the first Gulf crises and I UNO ceremonious call for a cease-fire. I It was of course a great paradox that the ■ “fire’ did not cease because the * aggression was going on, and peace itself never settled because major donors of the UNO were involved. Baghdad understood this very well and could see the gates of tyranny still wide opened. Saddam Hussain knew that he had the bestopportunities to strengthen his shaky power base project the party manifesto as sacred guiding principles of the state and establish himself as the life president of the nation. He was sure also that no
—   matter the atrocities, if the cordial
—   relationship with the major powers remained unaffected, nothing else to fear. From here onwards he turned first against all oppositions at home using all methods of brutality and suppression in forming and perfecting his present police-state. Nobody raised an eyebrow, (as we shall Insha Allah see later on) and the world took it to be internal problems or a political structural adjustment, except few lines of distorted editorial comments.
             Saddam Hussain as a politician is a fanatical pragmatist who knows properly his own limitations and hates to chew more than he can swallow. As a Ba’athist he’s treacherous by all moral standards and he is strangely very successful in getting the best out of an ally now, to make him an arch enemy tomorrow. As a soldier he is a tactician and strategist who is always many steps ahead of the smartest foe. Saddam’s plan are always well contemplated before ha..dand totally followed afterwards. In defeating oppositions at home, he employed all these traces in a swoop. He got the best of his bosom friends in preparing for a future battle against them and destroyed those adversaries presendy facing him because he thought that they
 would constitute additional burden tomorrow. In securing Soviet military aid he remained a professed Socialist and in winning the affection of the Gulf states, he raised the banner of Arabism. But to merit support from Washington and other Western capitals he proved himself a savage ruler...
         “when the Soviet Union began expanding its influence...in the 1960s and70..”concedesMichael Schatzaberg of the Woodrow Wilson Center for scholars...’’support for brutal right wing dictators were an absolute necessity in the cold war....” But after the termination of the cold war and the collapse of the Eastern block, Western policy of Communist containment was restructured and substituted with a new strategy called encirclement of the so-called Islamic fundamentalism. The support of Ba’athist dictatorship in the region became therefore an obligation in the West and Saddam Hussian got the mandate he needed for destroying all oppositions in the country. In the overall fulfillment of this design, he used his parly ideology to the fullest advantage and manipulated well the stormy political tides at home.
         The first thing he tried to exploit was the doctrine of his party. Ba’athism the official state religion of Iraq and the ideological wing of Saddam’s authoritarianism, has never won the supportof the people itclaims to salvage through out its history. The Christian activist Marshal Aflaq who founded the Ba’athist party did so not out of any solid intellectual reasoning but based his theories merely on simple sentiment of Arab nationalism and rhetoric programmes that are common where ever there is a socialist inclination. The major goal was not to construct an enduring socio-political system in the regime rather the main objective was to break the monolithic character of Muslim Middle East by replacing Islamic concept of universal brotherhood with a parochial racist ideology...”The idea of an Arab nation..” Writes Edward Mortimer and Micheal Field of the Financial Times....distinct from the wider
 I The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991 ■
 community of Muslim believers seems to have originated among Christian minority in Syria. It has remained popular among Arabic speaking Christians because it offers them, at least in theory, the chance to escape from their m inority statue and play a role in the affairs of their country or countries....”
          Saddam Hussain in view of his astute ideosyncrasy could not be deterred by the philosophical deficiency in Afiaq’s doctrinal exposition. The former therefore supplemented the intrinsic ideological weakness of Ba’athist party with the political accomplishment of Jamal Nasecr’sdynamic leadership. Pan Arabism reached its maturity in Cairo in the late fifties and early sixties when Arab Israeli hostilities seemed to be at their peak, and theThird World countries were either fighting for their sovereignties or trying relentlessly to protect their hard-won independence. Here too Egypt scored some points by being one of the founding members of non-Aligment movement.
          The performances of this movement after taking off are a different story entirely, but the new Arab nationalist movementundcr Jamal Abdul Nasecr believed in (i) the necessity of fighting Israel by sticking to Arab racism as the Jews held-on to Zionism, (ii) The necessity of an Arab Unity in challenging all the foreign imperialists in the Middle East (iii) and the establishmentof a progressive strong leadership or revolutionary dictatorship that could lead the whole region in the struggle and (iv) The eventual creation of ultra-modern Arab empire from Gibraltar in the west to Basrah in the cast and from Aleppo in the north to Aden in the south.
          The authors of the first two objectives are unkind to themselves by exhibiting their complete ignorance of the very issues at sake. They were surely not clear as to the differences between Semitism and Judaism on one hand, and anii-semitism and imperialism on the other. They should have understood first
                                                                                                                              13 ■■■HH
 why Arabism as a racist doctrine could never face Zionism which though racist has since been acting as the imperialists bul-work. It is true that the population of the Middle East today is made up of Arabs who are themselves Semitic. Judaism, though taught in Hebrew language is a religion by definition and not a tribe by exposition. The wanted enemyof the Pan-Arab nationalists ma’ not be anti-semitic to qualify him for th s name imperialist Similarly, Zionism as a creed is a man-made ideology that perverts the true message of Judaism for socio-political hegemony
          Zionism therefore has a “racist god” who had long chosen Israel “as a blessed flock” and condemned others even before birth as “heathen lots” worthy of extermination or subjugation. Zionist philosophy therefore believes the world is for a single race among diverse nations of mankind. This“chosen race” must whether by “fair of foul” rule and humiliate others for the assumed innate inferiorities of the latter.
          In the Zionist conception of life and practical performances on sociopolitical stage, no rule, no law, no man, no morals no treaties..."should therefore be observed when dealing with other nations, and nothing could makeaZionist equal to a non-Jew. They, as a result, do enjoy very much the role of destabilizing the entire globe so as to live in a fallacious, peaceful state of mind. On the contrary Arabism without Islam is an empty shell and with it an ideological contradiction.
          Arabism lacks clear doctrinal perceptions, meaningful historical inspirations, and solid socio-political foundation. The Arabs were a nonentity before Islam and would remain so, in as much as they abandon their only path to greatness. The intellectual contribution of the early Muslims (Arabs and non-Arabs alike) to human progress in all fields did not spring from pre-Islam ic Arab Jahiliyyah but from the unvcrsal Message of the Holy Quran.
          Looking at the third objective
of our Pan-Arabists it would also be discovered that it is a carbon copy of communist principle of proletariat “dictatorship” As Lenin strove to remove Czarist monarchists and Stalin came to consolidate the revolution by his bloody purge of post second world war. Jamal Abdul-Naseer and his disciples commenced too their operation- “house cleaning” which was as brutal as Stalinist purge except that the former never stopped cleaning until they were carried into the graves.
                                                                                                                  The last objective of Arab
1  The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 5
nationalist was taken from Jamal-u-Deen Afghani’s Pan-Islamism transmitted to Egyptian politics through his devoted student Muhammad Abdul, who later became the Rector of Al-Azhar university in Cairo. From here Jamal Abdul-Naseer and his co-exponents took Jamalu-Deen verbatim with very slight, variations. Where the world “Islam” occurred they put'Arab’ in its place and Muslim historical data and the noble life of the Holy prophet (on him be peace and blessings) were projected as heroism of Arab nation.
                 Page 14
         Soon they ran into problems on many fronts. Larger part of Islamic Intellectual contribution and political consolidation were performed by non-Arab Muslims! Similarly, the Prophet himself and his companion denounced nationalism, Arab or non-Arab! The concept of Arabism or Ba’athism or even Middle East nationalism therefore has no grounds. A situation which has been compelling its authors to run from one school of thought to the other in trying to survive amidst numerous catastrophes... • ■ ■ " " ■
                •• ■ ■ ■ ■ »**
                                                                                                    rIVipartite moot declaration
Najib’s ouster must
         Islamabad: The two-day trilateral talks held here between Pakistan, Iran and all factions ofPakistan and Iran-based Afghan Mujahideen concluded on Tuesday, (July 30) after approving a joint declaration pleading for a solution to the Afghanistan problem which should lead to the replacement of the present illegal government in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
         The tripartite meeting which was attended by the Foreign Minister of Iran Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Secretary General Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Akram Zaki and the leaders of the Pakistan and Iran-based Afghan Mujahideen parties also ended on a positive note of preliminary understanding over the number of eats allocated to the representatives of seven Shiya Afghan political parties based in Iran in the joint28-member commission to be constituted for holding elections in Afghanistan of an elected government
         The understanding finally arrived at between Iran and Pakistan-based Afghan groups would pave the way for a greater unity among all factions of the Afghan Mujahideen. The Iran-
based Mujahideen, who earlier had demanded at least Five seats in the proposed commission, would nowbe satisfied with there seats.
        Addressing the joint press conference at the conclusion of the talks with Pakistan Secretary General Foreign Affairs Akram Zaki .The Iranian Foreign Minister said that the second round of the trilateral talks would be held in Tehran within 45 days to work out a concrete formula. Describing the holdi ng of these parleys as a historic event in the struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen, the visiting Iranian minister expressed the hope that Tehran mootwould be more productive in view of the preliminary understanding reached between different Afghan groups during the Islamabad talks.
He said the Islamabad tripartite talks among Pakistan, Iran and almost 90 per cent of the Afghan leaders of different groups “is a turning point”, as these leaders now start understanding viewpoint of one and other which produced “consensus declaration on Tuesday,”
        “I must say”, Dr. Velayati continued “every Afghan leader who comes down here for parleys has strong will and desire to save the destiny of their nation from this disastrous
 situation.”
         About role to be played by other Muslim countries in helping to bring out Afghanistan from the present crisis, the Iranian leader invited the attention of Muslim countries world over towards their religious, moral and historical role for ending the Afghan crisis.
         Stressing for inclusion of all Afghan groups in the formation of next government in Afghanistan for the transitional period, Dr. Velayati said the future of a democratic Islamic Afghanistan is rested with fair treatment to these Afghan Mujahideen groups.
         Iran and Pakistan have taken the initiative of arranging this tripartite talks and the process of consultations through peaceful negotiations should be continued in the future, he said adding” Iran would hold next round of tripartite talks in Tehran sometime during next month.”
         Mr. Velayati disagreed with a question that Pakistan and Iran had perhaps trying to “impose a some kind of political solution on Peshawar and Tehran-based Afghan Mujahideen leaders.
         Continued on PageO 3(
 The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991
1 Page 15
American-Jewish Committee

                s WK                                                 v            s'.:
i4 buAbdu-Rahman
        Contray to popular behlief, it is Western democracy that has become a hostage of Zionist global imperialism and not vice-versa. Here is a revealing pre-Gulf crises document; summary of the actvities of the 31th conference of the American Jewish General Affairs (ABAC) held Washington between June 10th and 12th, 1990. Submitedby our special correspondent and translated by Yasin Murtadah
 Affairs Committee is actually a part of the Israeli grand connection on the North American Continent, except that its importance lies particularly in the extensive influence it commands in American political circles. An observer, Newbroak Taiz, once described it as “the strongest, most highly organized and influential gathering in Washington. Representative Michael Clay said some time ago that “ABAC terrorizes the Congress...It has a variety of methods in luring and intimidating members of the Congress in realizing Jewish goals in America.” The ABAC also has the reputation of being aided and supported by the Israeli Embassy in Washington
 on a daily basis. (It would be of interest to mention that this organization officially issued its press statement defending the aggressive Israeli attack on the Iraqi Nuclear Plant in 1981 hours before the Israeli Prime Minister in Tel-Aviv gave the official version of the attack.)
         The annual ABAC conference is recognized as one of the most highly political gatherings in the U.S. Senior government officials from the White House, popular members of the Congress, and representatives of the diplomatic corps of other countries are usually present. DuringRonaldReagan’s term in office, the President was represented at ABAC Conference by the Vice-President, George Bush. The current Vice-President as well as the Secretary of Defence also participated in the last ABAC gathering.
         Mr. Geonaversh, in his speech to the attendants, emphasized the importance of establishing close intimacy with members of Congress through press releases, conferences and symposiums. This method, he concluded, was not only very effective but explained the cogent reasons behind the failure of the Arabs in influencing American official and public opinion.
         Similarly, he expressed a prevailing opinion among participants by condemning any nation of the world moving towards peace and added that a third world war could well start in the Middle East between the Arab states and a West-supported Israel. He also contended that there was a great distinction between the situation which led to the 1973 Arab-Israeli war and present socio-political developments. The difference, he maintained, could be noticed from the mere fact that Saddam
 Hussain has successfully risen to be a regional leader. His success, the speake explained, was bom from the ability of the Iraqi leadership in winning the support of major sections of the Arab populati on to its side as well as its almost successful bid to form a militant anti-Jewish united front in thf Middle East.
          The ruling Iraqi government managed to bring Arab heads of states to Baghdad as well as to project its strongman, Saddam Hussain, as the most popular leader in Arab streets and city-enclaves throughout the entire region. To the common people, argued the Jewish speaker, Saddam actually performed an amazing feat by challenging and curtailing “Iranian fundamentalism”, which compelled the Arab world to accept his leadership.
          Later he said it would be unrealistic to believe that most Arab nations would ever recognize the state of Israel. Here he cited the example of Yasser Arafat’s refusal even under collateral international pressure to condemn Abu Abbass. If Arafat had done that, he believed, the PLO leader would have been assassinated the next day.
          Though with some reservations, Geonaversh believed the ongoing dialogue between American officials in the External Affairs Department and Palestinian leaders should continue. The reason, he maintained, was the mere fact that such dialogues could never give the Palestinians anything but mere conventional resolutions and never-to-be fulfilled promises. After these observations the speaker expressed his amazement at those who still held the faintest hope of Egyptian co-operation on resolving the Palestinian issue. He
 declared that this was untenable in view of the fact that there had been hints of a possible bloody coup in Cairo with the strong possibility that the next leadership to emerge from this expected military mutiny would immediately renounce all Egyptian obligations and commitments towards the Camp David Accord, and the entire country would be only too happy to support such a government since the streets of Middle East capitals have already expressed their full hatred and rancor towards the Accord.
          Geonaversh also informed the audience about intelligence reports which pointed to the fact that the
 relationship between Iran and Iraq was progressing and the prospect of the two Muslim and neighboring countries entering into a formidable treaty was very near. Considering the fact that the foundation of such an anti-Zionist agreement has already been made; one could correctly conclude that hostility could break out anytime in the region. As an indication of this claim, he cited the recent (pre-Gulf crisis) declaration of Saddam Hussain which stated that Iraq was prepared to open its borders for the Iranian Army to cross and attack Israel. This is what both countries constantly referred to as “Liberation of Jerusalem”. Saddam Hussain himself has repeatedly said that in fulfilling this Islamic objective he was prepared to bum out as much as half of present-day Israeli territory.
                                                                                                           The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 1
          For the speaker, the solution was simply to take the Iraqi leadership seriously since some of his devastating missiles were already deployed facing Israel waiting only an order from Baghdad to be fired. This, unfortunately, resembled very much the late thirties and early forties threats of Adolf Hitler which were eventually carried out with all its attendant ruthlessness to the letter. To stop Saddam from becoming another Hitler, he suggested that it was necessary for the American government and pro-Zionist forces the world over to think of a way of enforcing economic sanctions on Iraq as well as a political boycott of Baghdad and all other
 sympathetic Muslim states with Iraq. This alone, he submitted, would not only benef t Israel indirectly but would also directly guarantee its security in the Zone.
         A1990 press release by ABAC highlighted the operation strategy of the organization. The following fundamental points should be mentioned:
         “The only American policy likely to succeed in the Middle East is that which is based on strengthening the existing American-Israeli relationship from all areas. These include commercial, financial, economic, political and diplomatic co-operation in seeking a permanent peace in the region.”
                                                                                                        The role of the ABAC in this
                                                                 Page
 respect, according to this press release, is very important in serving as a liason between the two nations as well as extensively promoting the avowed aims of the two countries. The priorities of (ABVAC) in the year 1990 therefore would be:
         One: Strengthening the current efforts towards a realistic peace between Israel and its neighboring Arab states. This could be performed by America gearing up its support for on-going Israeli attempts of carrying out free democratic elections for Palestinians residing in Jordan, Sumarah, and Gaza. This would without doubt pave the way for the emergence of a new group of Arab leadership that could be invited to join the present dialogue on peace initiatives.
         Two:      ABAC  should work
 intimately with the American government as well as the Congress in securing necessary aid and grants for Israel. Funds and assistance are no doubt necessary in assimilating and re-settling Jewish historical emigrants from the Soviet Union. There is need for international co-operation to eliminate existing impediments which bar Jewish immigration from Ethiopia, Syria, Yemen and other parts of the world where they are persecuted.
         Three: Activities must also be directed towards preserving the economic and military assistance of America towards Israel.
         Four:      Strengthening  of
 strategic          “American-Israeli
 cooperation”, especially against the persistent threat of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons possessed by some neighboring hostile states in the region.
         Five: Supporting the efforts to transfer the American embassy from Tel-Aviv to Jerusalem and guaranteeing the security of this city as the eternal capital of the Jewish state which would be free, united and open to all religions.
         Six:   Encouraging  the Jews
 presently serving today as American officials
 to fight international “terrorism” which is basically engineered by the PLO. This organization must be held responsible for “terrorist” activities performed by any of its members.
          Seven: Elucidating the role of Israel in consolidating American strategic interests in the region in preparation for the new world order. Emphasis must be paid on the observation that even though Eastern Europe and some other parts of the world have fallen to the wind of democratization the Middle East is yet to be changed. There is, therefore, an urgent need to create a new set of stable and powerful allies at this time when chaotic changes are engulfing the region.
          Eight: Encouraging the United States of America in its leadership role of preventing persistent Arab attempts to expel
 I The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991 •
 overlooked.
         The ABAC press document also considered the following fundamental principles:
 ^ PEACE INITIATIVES
         The document mentioned that the United States and Israel were strategic partners in the historic search for peace in the Middle East. The strong co-operation between the two countries developed profusely during the tenure of President Ronald Reagan and such developments were expected also during George Bush’s era as a standard for future Israeli-American cooperation. The continuous help and support from the Congress no doubt would encourage
 Israel from the general assembly of the United Nations Organization and its agencies. Similarly, we are going to support the United States in its efforts of convincing the UNO to abrogate the spiteful resolution of 1975, that classified Zionism as racism.
          Nine: Promoting fresh areas of joint economic, military and political cooperations between the United States and Israel.
 Israel to be more determined in its peace initiatives such as theproposed freeelections for Palestinians in some occupied territories. The search for peace should be considered as a project that required patience and steadfastness. Recent developments must never discourage American officials and members of Congress from supporting Israeli peace initiatives. The United States should likewise realize that there can be peace in the region without the PLO participating in the dialogue.
          Ten: Diversifying the strategic searches for the new energy sources in the United States. This is aimed at not only advancing the existing policies of energy consumption in the U.S. but in reducing the country’s reliance on foreign petroleum by developing sustainable alternative sources. Such a move is too important to be
          The state of Israel since 1948, according to the document, had launched its peace initiatives inviting all Arab states to dialogue. Unfortunately, except for Egypt no Arab nation was prepared to recognize Israel as a state. The core of the problem in the region was the acceptance or rejection of Israeli peace initiatives in the region. The
                ^^^age 17
 role of the U.S. in this respect would be to encourage other Arab nations to follow the Egyptian example by opening up dialogue with Israel. After 1989 new Israeli initiatives have appeared. The gist of these moves was the proposal of Tel-Aviv to hold free and fair elections for Palestinians under Jewish rule so that elected representatives could directly enter into dialogue with Israel. Similarly, such a move would encourage other Arab states to proceed in democratizing their various states. It would be of interest to mention, stated the document, that apart from the government in Tel-Aviv there was no other democratic nation in the region. The creation of Israel in this zone therefore could be considered to be a revolutionary development.
 ^ PRINCIPLES OF PEACES)
          The document mentioned that both the United States of America and Israel agreed that the global socio-political situation called for an urgent change. There is great need for more political solutions being attempted. The continuation of violence in Judea, Samara, and the Gaza strips were some of the reasons thatmade peace initiatives obligatory. It was unfortunate, according to this document that while Israel was striving hard to seek a peaceful solution, the PLO increased its “terrorist” activities. Moderate Palestinians had consistently been subjected to persecution and assassination by Intifadah workers in occupied Palestinian areas for the former’s support of peaceful solutions.
          Surely, continued the document, Israel with the help of the U.S. was prepared to proceed forward with its plan of entering into direct negotiation with Palestinian leaders from occupied Arab lands as well as sovereign neighboring Arab countries. The only condition for executing such programs, would be the unconditional recognition of Israel by all Arab leaders either within or outside occupied lands. If they could subscribe to this idea it would definitely amount to a practical demonstration of their sincerity and preparedness to respect the borders and security of Israel as a sovereign state. All these, the document mentioned, were necessary in creating the yet-to-come trust and seriously needed understanding between the two opposing parties.
          From this perspective, the ABAC believed that it would be of great importance to closely study the possible consequences
 of American-Palestinian negotiation and dialogue. It had been proved that the PLO had violated all pledges made by Yasser Arafat in 1988 by renewing acts of terrorism, which have been the only effective weapon known to the PLO for 26 years. An example of such cases was the PLO “terrorist” strike on the 10th day of Yar on Israeli beaches.
          As Tel-Aviv was striving to build trust between Jews and Arabs, neighboring states were bent on destroying all such possibilities. Saddam Hussain, as an illustration cited in the beginning of the conference, had promised to ravage half of the present geographical territory of Israel. Other Arab leaders wanted to destroy the entire state of Israel and the Arab world as a whole vehemently opposes the on-going Jewish emigrations from the Soviet Union and other places where Jewish persecution has reached its peak, to the state of Israel. On the first of Teshr in 1989, all Arab states beside Egypt voted in adramatic demand for the expulsion of Israel form the UNO. The leaders of the Arab hardliners on this international platform were Saudi Arabia and Kuwait which have proved themselves relentless in their struggle against Israel.
          For a lasting solution, the ABAC suggested that the United States should adopt the following principles in their quest for Middle East regional peace.
          1.           A stronger and more committed American guarantee for Israeli security and frontiers should be taken as permanent official policy. There is an urgent need also to draw
■ The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991  I
 military. The sketching out of an American defence zone by Washington in the region would likewise be of immense value.
          2.           America should oppose any international conference on the Middle East so long as there is a possibility of a pre-local negotiation directly between all opposing parties in the region. In the same vein, the participation of the U.S.S.R. in any peace initiative must be subjected to unconditional Soviet recognition of the state of Israel, establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, and non-abrogation of Jewish emigration rights from theU.S.S.R. to Israel.
          3.           The United States of America should herself encourage democratic changes in the Middle East in general and in the occupied territories of Judea, Samara, and the Gaza strips in particular. The importance of this, according to the ABAC document, was the certain evolution of democratic Arab leaders who would be more than willing to negotiate directly with the State of Israel. The PLO should be prevented from influencing this political program by its known terrorist and intimidation strategies.
          4.          The ABAC therefore called on the U.S. to officially condemn PLO terrorist activities such as the unprovoked attack on Israeli beaches. Similarly, the United States of America should demand the expulsion of Abu Abbass from the executive committee of the PLO. Any further negotiation with this organization by the U.S. must be based on earlier pledges by Yasser Arafat to stop
                                                                                                                          18 ■■■■■
 dialogue between the state of Israel and its neighboring Arab countries.
         6.          There should be no imposed solutions from any side, especially from outside and local radical groups. The U.S. should strive towards creating a political climate that would lead to positive results and all concerned parties must give their pledges to accept the outcome of such negotiations.
         7.          The U.S. should, according to the ABAC document, maintain strictly its earlier stand of opposing the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on Israeli borders.
         8.          Washington should officially condemn PLO terrorism against moderate Palestinians living inside and outside of the occupied lands who believed in peaceful solutions rather than armed struggle.
         9.          The document also mentioned that the U.S. must never succumb to the demand of accepting the PLO as a competent and serious partner in any peace initiative.
                                                                                                    ft FOREIGN AID J
         Economic and military aid by the United States tolsrael was meant no doubt to fulfill American foreign goals especially in the Middle East and to help Israel in serving as a bulwark against any possible Arab hostility in the future. Current American economic, financial and military aid tolsrael per a billion dollars has been calculated to be enough to create new jobs for 60,000 unemployed Americans.
         The reversal of Soviet influence in theMiddle East has not in the least guaranteed total American interest since the West still felt Israel would be the most useful weapon-against the increasing formidable activities of Muslim fundamentalists and other paramilitary Islamic organizations.
         The ABAC wanted the fulfillment of the following obligations by the U.S. government:
         a)          A continuation of the existing American 3 billion dollar annual aid to Israel as a mere grant.
American latest sales to Isreal
a pragmatic picture of the consequences that      pakstWan stnlgg]e.
would follow the present progressive cooperations between the Jordanian and Iraqi
5.  Initiating a non-conditional
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 19
       b)       Acceptance of the fact that economic and military assistance of the U .S. to Israel is a permanent American foreign affairs policy.
       c)       Need for more elaborate searches for new ways of increasing American foreign aid programs in safeguarding United States interests throughout the world.
 (( JERUSALEM
          The document also considered the issue of Jerusalem as a permanent capital for the state of Israel. There was also a declaration that East Jerusalem would be forever a Jewish location and is never to be an Arab domicile.
          The document also expressed the concern and surprise of Jews all over the world on President Bush’s declaration on East Jerusalem as well as the American government’s decision to maintain its embassy outside Jerusalem. These developments, the document said, did not fit well into overall American policy in the Middle East. To this and other similar political and diplomatic tensions between the two countries AB AC officials demanded the immediate transfer of the American Embassy to Jerusalem. Similarly, the document emphasized the strategic importance of the American-Israeli alliance in the region, since the Jewish state alone could be regarded as the most dependable ally of the American opinion. As aresult, the ABAC felt the continuous progressive cooperation between the two parties should be accorded its due priority.
          The document also expressed the concern of Jews all over the world on the increasing military threats faced by the state of Israel in the Middle East. The reason was the procurement of advanced military arsenals by some neighboring Arab states including the capability of some of them to deliver biological and chemical missile warheads to Israel. Equipping Arabs with the latest military technology against Israel has seriously altered the power-balance in the regime. This was in addition to the relentless efforts of Baghdad to produce its chemical and nuclear weapons.
 ( PL0 )
        The document also mentioned the disturbing cases of the PLO “terrorists” attacks on Jewish and American interests as well as the persistent armed struggle of the Arab world against the state of Israel and its
        The inspector general police of the Frontier Province. Syed Mosood Shah, has categorically dispelled the impression that the Afghan refugees were involved in committing crimes in the province, reports PPL
        Talking to the Rawalpindi, Islamabad-based newsmen in Peshawar at Central Police Office (COP), he said it was part of the propaganda campaign of the antisocial elements in order to create bitterness between the Afghan refugees and the locals.
        He observed that the re fuggees were good people and were not contributing in crimes such as robbery, highway dacoities and kidnapping. “Afghan refugees are our brothers and they do not create law and order situation for the government,” he added.
 diplomatic offensives in the United Nation s Organizations towards the expulsion of Israel. Similarly, of much distress to the leaders was increasing American reliance on Arabian petroleum as a source of energy. The best bet for the West, according to the document, was to search for alternative sources. So that there would be a minimum dependence on the Muslim World. —
         About the incident of terrorism in the province he said the agents of KGB, RAW and WAD were involved in the bomb explosions in which at least 290 were killed and 1,180 were injured so far.
         The IG maintained that the Kabul regime had established a training center in Kabul where- from trained terrorists were being sent for getting further training to Moscow. These saboteurs after getting training in Kabul and Moscow, enter Pakistan disguised as Afghan refugees to initiate terrorist activities in the country, particularly in the NWFP, the IG added.
         He said that these terrorists targetted important government installations and busy centers in order to cause immense damage to fulfil their nefarious designs.
IGP
                         DENIES REFUGEES’ INVOLVEMENT IN CRIMES
 The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page20 I
Fails to Make Headway
        It seems as if United Nations secretary General’s formula for solution of Afghan problem has met with a complete failure as almost all major political organization of Afghan Mujahideen and military commanders have rejected his plan, terming it as totally unjust and impracticable.
        Meanwhile Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar Amir of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has proposed formation of a transitional government compri-
r
 Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar is of the opinion that replacement ofNajib regime by a transitional government comprising of judges and university professors could pave the way for the solution of Afghan problem. Such a transitional government \ should be given the task of arranging elections and handing over power to an elected government within a stipulated period. He, however, has ruled out any role forNajib and ex-mo narchZahir Shah in the future political set-upof Afghanistan.
 during his recent visit to Peshawar, Engineer Hekmatyar told a mammoth Jumah congregation at Shamshatu refugee camp at Peshawar, that he made it clear to Mr. Jacobi that any solution of Afghan problem imposed from outside would be resisted with full force and it would never crown with success.
       Engineer Hekmatyar said that Afghans should be allowed to determine their own future and also made it clear that even if all superpowers agreed on an imposed solution, Afghans would resists the same till last man.
 sing of Judges and professors after removal of the Najib regime and this transitional government should be entrusted with the task of holding election within a stipulated period and transfer of power to an elected Islamic government.
        Giving resume of his talks with Swiss secretary of state for foreign Affairs Klaus Jacobi
 Commenting on the formula of the UN secretary General for solution of Afghan problem Engineer Hekmatyar said that the aim of his plan in the name of political solution was to start an intra-Afghan dialogue between the communists, the Mujahideen and the Afghans who fled to Europe and America when brave people of Afghanistan were fighting against Soviet aggression on their homeland. Engineer Hekmatyar said that all Mujahideen were opposed to such a dialogue
 because Najib and his party was responsible for the massacre of the Afghan and destruction of their homeland.
        He declared that Najib and his supporters would not be allowed to play any role in any future set up as Mujahideen were against formation of any coalition government with communists.
        He vowed to continue Jihad until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
        Meanwhile according to A. N. A Engineer Hekmatyar has also ruled out any role for former Afghan monarch Zahir Shah during his meeting with Swiss secretary of state for foreign Affairs, because he had no role in the resistance.
        Amir of Hezb-e-Islami also told Mr. Jacobi that Loya Jirga had never been a social or political institution in the history of Afghanistan. Such Jirgas were used to be formed by the previous despotic regimes, in which they assembled their henchmen for the justification of their misrule. Further elaborating his point, Mr. Hekmatyar informed Swiss secretary for foreign affairs that those who were advocating Loya Jirga were infact afraid of the verdict of their nation, because they have no footing in the Afghan masses.
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 21
MAN
REVOLUTION
         It is perhaps not an easy task to fore-stall the advent of an impending inevitability. However, the difficulty becomes more pronounced if any attempt is made at comprehending fully the multi-dimentional implications of what appears to many as abstractions but which in reality is the basis of all socio-political associations.... Whether we prefere to accept or opt for the contrary, humanity has all along been and will continue to behave and interact as a unit community. Every member-group of this global nation if put under the same situation is prone to act similarly: if other tilings remain constant.
         One basic fact which must be understood is that the natural laws that facilitate the appearance and continuous existence of man on earth compel all communities to react similarly if not wxactly when they arc subjected to the same natural laws and conditions. This is the practical scientific basis of modem humanities or social disciplines which though in professional terminologies appears to be new, and in exposition modem and changing, but in essence ancient, constant and permanent. This is an unpalatable fact before racist ideologies and protangonists of artificial geo-political separatisms. Ncver-the less, it is a common social phenomenom in view of the apparent unsimilar if not completely conflicting locational, cultural and religious backgrounds of various tribes and man-made sovereignties.
         Let’s take the case of Afghanistan as an example demonstrating this reality. What has transformed an apparently underveloped and unlettered nation into a community championing, the will of faith plus the modem thoughts of self-determination, freedom and liberty begs for contemplation these they want so that the entire nation could live according to the dictates of their religion.
 Following this sequential development, the whole landscape of mountainous terrain has been converted into blazing battle fronts. It is therefore unsurprising that its valleys are no longer passive spectators but vibrant activators of military operations in the ideological struggle for independence and self determination. Fightings are now heatingup for the establishment of Faith and progress.
        The Marxist puppet regime ironically came to power through military mutiny, and declared itself a people’s revolution that aimed high at winning back the lost freedom of participation in socio-political administration of Lhe country. But unfortunately these so-called saviours of the masses have been maintaining themselves in office by refusing to bow before the same popular demand for a change. In contrary, they are determined to silent the people by resorting to criminal bloody suppression of “all oppositions. Unsurprisingly, our self-apointed proletariat defenders of the masses and their rights, are now facing a real people’s revolutionary challenge in form of a long and bloddy armed struggle. The people are resolved never to flag in their military resistance which all the more makes the self-imposed and foreign protected regime to be more desperate. It is therefore too natural for the Afghans to be equally persistent and more dynamically dctcrtcrmincd in their struggle against oppression.
        In the same vein communism is busy taking its final steps towards the global ideological exit door but the struggle for the establishment of a permanet world of faith, peace and justice will continue. Dictators are today being overthrown one after the other. The lucky ones among them are those who arc wise enough to flee the capital before the final assults of the people’s revolutionary resistance. As for the unrepentant ones; apart from being mercilessly killed as they them selves ruled their countries, most of them were even denied recognizable graves.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 22
         The on-going battles in different parts of the world between the people’s call for freedom and justice in the face of authoritarian rule of terror by these so-called popular goverments and self-appointed champions of human rights will not cease as long as oppression remains anywhere on earth.
         The revolutionary journey to Kabul is a testimony here too. The Mujahideen though after much difficulty have been able to make their advances towards the capital more consistent in recent times. Afghan Jihad therefore serves as another demonstration of this fact that the natural instict of liberty that resides studdedly in the fathom consciousness of man will always prove itself undefeatable; tentative occurences do not matter. It’s momentary suppression or temporary silence which
 could make oppression to brag and prop before its hypnotized beholders a little while longer does not actually change the essential potentiality of the people’s capacity to fight back in the future. The most important thing is the natural capability to resurrect or resuscitate, via the love of freedom and liberty that both form the essential characteristics of human Will-power on earth.
         It is this natural attribute in man that makes the continuation of global ideological struggle, whose out come in turn determines the velocity of hum an civilization at a particular point, a must. Kabul or no-Kabul, Afghans first and foremost are humans who believe in Islam and their present demand they should be given the chance to rule themselves is too natural to be silenced.
        This is another reason why the on-going Jihad is very important in understanding some of the complexities surrounding global revolutionary struggle. Afghanistan is a country which enjoys unique socio-political and ideological tenents in a similarly distinctive homogenous religio-cultural and politico-geographical neghbourhood. The mere thoughts that Hindokush was the last revolutionary centre from which Muslims managed to govern the entire sub-Indian continent for more than eight hundred years sends waves of uneasiness through out the imperialist capitals. This is also beside the fact that many of the powers that be today have at one time or the other been militarily humiliated by these freedom-loving populace of Afghanistan. The common and major anxiety is that this country would again serve as twenty-first century revolutionary base for the oppressed masses
 of the world and eventually history could repeat itself if Muslims could dominate the region again.
        But it was the British empire which successfully terminated the first Mongol attempt at changing the geopolitical structure of the sub-centinent, making the above mentioned apprehensions quite unfounded. In revolutionary struggle involving two apparently
 -j---oppossed ideologies,
 sophisticated weapons plus ammunitions and battalions especially when highly trained are without doubt advantageous. But in the final analysis time is certainly in favour of such ideological message that is closer to the natural disposition of man. Here victory will eventually go to that camp which practically and not merely theoretially believes in freedom, liberty and self determination, since these qualities are all innate in most men.
        The longevity of this particular time of transformation may be reduced or increased by real battle preparedness. Physical fitness, strong strategic and tactical experience could play vital roles but in the long run victory belongs in the end exclusively to the group that in reality will liberate humanity from oppression and advance the global revolutionary struggle.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 23
'Commander9 s Joint Press V. Conference ^
Jihad in Full Swing
         Military representatives of the seven major political organizations of Mujahideen while addressing a joint news conference in Peshawar on Sunday disclosed that joint military operations of Mujahideen will commence soon all over Afghanistan for the removal of the puppet regime of Kabul and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, reports Afghan News Agency.
         Those who addressed the press conference included military representali ve of National Islam ic Front, Mohammad Gul, Harakat-e-Inqilab-i-Islami’s Sher Mohammad Khan, Ittehad-e-Islami’s Mohammad Musa, Hameedullah Jan of Afghan National Liberation Front, Jamiat-e-e_slami’s Mehrabuddin, Kabir Khan of Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar).
         Giving a resume of the Jihad activities in Afghanistan the comanders said that Mujahideen destroyed 3,500 aircrafts, including bombarda nd transport planes and helicopters, of the Kabul regime after the Russian intervention in Afghanistan 26,000 tanks, armoured vehicles and military trucks
 were also destroyed in the 12 years Jihad. Giving an account of the regime arsenal they said that before the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. Kabul regime had only 2,800 tanks. APCs and military trucks of aircrafts, But after the communists intervention! in the country they used the Russian airforce and Russian army which caused large scale devastation to the nation.
         The commanders claimed that during the current month Mujahideen scored major military victories in Logar, Maidan Wardak, Gardez, Nengerhar, Badakhshan, Qandahar, Herat and Faryab provinces. They said thatduring the 45 days war in Maidan Wardak province Mujahideen repulsed regimeoffensivesandkilled 135 soldiers, destroyed 10 tanks and APCs while captured 13 military posts. They claimed that a large number of the regime soldiers including the defence minister of the regime Gen. Nabi Azemi and a number of military officers were injured.
         The commanders said that Mujahideen captured the Zabuk garrison in Badakhshan province in which 137 militiamen and soldiers were captured
 and 36 of them were killed during action. Two Mujahideen laid down their lives in these operation.
                                                                                            The newsmen were told that
 Mujahideen have increased theirpressure on the Eskhaam district of Badakhshan province bordering Soviet Union. The district is of very strategic importance and Mujahideen’s victory was close as they captured six security posts of strategic importance on July 20. The commanders disclosed that more than 500 militiamen headed by militia commander Shadi Khan defected to Mujahideen at in Herat province recently and brought with them 800 pieces of weapons.
    They further revealed that in different districts of Herat including Zinda Jan, Ghoryan and Injeel, Mujahideen ooperations were on the peak. In Sherin Tagab district of Faryab province Mujahideen captured five military posts of the regime and prison for the political prisoners from where a number of prisoners including a Mujahideen commander Adam Khan were released.
jr *           “                  \
I Military commanders of seven j major Mujahideen organizations | heve disclosed a joint operations | strategy against enemy through-j out Afghanistan. They are very j much hopeful of a military victory \ against the Najib regime.
             1 
Pllllllii   jA 
    The representatives of the different political organizations of Mujahideen were fully united inside
 Afghanistan and in the very near future they will launch joint attacks on regime military installations throughout the country.
         Replying to a question the military chiefs of the seven parties ruled out the political solutiion of the Afghan problem and said that the military victory of Mujahideen was the only viable solution of this problem. They said that Mujahideen never attached any hope to the political solution and stressed on mediamen that instead of searching a political resolution of the problem they should propagate the military victories of Mujahideen. The political solution of the confict, they added, was the plan of the superpowers who are persuing their designs in Afghanistan.
         Responding to another question they said that commanders of the nationwide shoora were affi 1 ialed wi th di fferen t political organizations and were fully abiding by the policies of their respective parties.
         The commanders said that hall in military aid to the Mujahideen by different countries has not affected the morale of Mujahideen as with the begining of Jihad they wereempty hands while today they have different weapons which they will fully utilise. They said that the future operations of Mujahideen will prove that the military victory of Mujahideen is possible as they were now fully united in the Jihad field.
         Commenting over the differences within the fold of Watan party they said that the resignation of the ex-prime minister of Kabul, Sultan Ali Kashtmand who returned to Kabul from self-exile in Russia was a clear proof of the dispondcncy in the party ranks.
         When asked to comment over the reported diffrences between Mujahideen commanders in central Afghanistan they debunked it adding dial Mujahideen were fully united on the Jihad front.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991                            PageO 24
                                   match to his adversaries. This was Hazrat Umar, popularly            not all he did. He was not oblivious
known as Faroooq-e-Azam, was              of the internal management of the
a great companion of the Holy             state. Side by side with outside
prophet (PBUH). As Allah                  victories he was laying
Almighty’s, masterpice is Hazrat          foundations of different kinds of
Mohammad (PBUH), so is our                departments to run the country,
prophet’s master piece and that is        Fe was also preoccupied with
Farooq-e-Azam.                            making rules and regulations for a
                                   just and efficient judicial system. Umar bin Kliitab loved and        He accomplished this all without
followed the prophet (PBUH).              having a secretariat or even a personal
Therefore he was enlightened in           secretary. In the midst of the
turn and became Farooq-e-Azam,            engagements he would find time to
Now the learned of the east and           patrol the city streets at night. It is
the west eulogize him. Umar bin           evident that he did all things with
Hisham was called Abul Hakam (the         the help of Allah Almighty. He was
wise). As he failed to recognize the      true servant of Allah(SwT). Therefore
greatness of the prophet (PBUH) so        as, a hadith tells, “Allah Almighty
became Abu Jahal (the ignorant)           had become his eyes, ears and
and died as Abu Jahal. We can say         hands. One of the sayings of the
dial he is placed as high as Abu Jahal is prophet (PBUH) is, Fear the wisdom
placed lowly.                             of the faithful. He sees with the
                                   light of Allah (SwT). That was the The vision of the prophet wisdom syed Farooq-e-Azam had (PBUH) made several historical            in abundance he was highly learned
personalities but thecase of Hazrat       and statesman. He had unmatched
Umar was somewhat different. As           understanding of the principles of
he was taller than others so he was our religion, Islam. He was an greater than others. But to know unparalleled mujtahid (one who one s greatness one must be can make new rules in accordance somewhat great himself.                   with the basic principles of Islam).
                                   Our prophet Hazarat Mohammad It is very surprising that (PBUH) had great confidence in while confronting the two super hjs power of decision making. powers of the time (Persia and
Egypt), he would direct his army            Syed    Saddiq-e-Akbar
about the details of the battle front     appointed Hazarat Umar Farooq
and still remain hundreds of miles        as his successor in his last time his
from the war front. Thus he defeated      choice proved very correct. The
the mighty powers of the world Muslim Ummah endorsed this albeit his worldly power was no choice with their consent (bai,at).
                                                                                                             The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 25

         HIJRA CALENDAR AND HI JR AT
                                                                                        Syed Abdul Rauf
        Congratulations on the eve
 of the new Islamic year. We pray this new year bring glory for the whole Ummah especially those who are engaged in their Jihad (struggle) for their just cause. In this connection Mujahideen Afghanistan and Kashmir are worth mentioning. For the convenience of those who are not well aware of the Islamic calender it is made public that with the beginning of Muharramul Haram, the Islamic year began on July 14,1991. For centuries this Islamic calender was in use. Even today several Islamic countries refer to it officially. Still there are many Muslims who, under the alien influence, are forgetful of the Islamic calender.
        During the period of the companions of our prophet (PBUH) the question of the beginning of the Islamic calender came to surface. From what date should the Islamic calender begin? It was decided that Islamic calender will start from the day of (Hijrat) migration of the prophet Mohammad along with his Muslim companions from Makka to Madina.
        After finding the atmosphere of Makka unfavorable for preaching the teachings of Islam the prophet (PBUH) chose Madina as a new center for imparting the message of Allah (SwT). Thinking of the importance of Hijrat one cannot remain unimpressed by he sagacity of the companions of our prophet
 (PBUH) who chose the date of Hijrat as the starting point of the Islamic years. Because the Hijrat was of the most importance for the cause of Islam. Hijrat means a journey from the evil towards the good.
 the world.
 - It was before Hijrat that Islam was thought to be only a theory. After the Hijrat it was known as a complete and practical code of life.
         The Hijrat and its repercussions is a subject which demands a detailed study but there are given some points to highlight the point.
 - Before Hijrat Islam was an individual religion it was after Hijrat
 - Before Hijrat every one talked of Greek, Roman and Persian Philosophy and culture, after the Hijrat Islamic philosophy and culture was the subject of the day.
 - Rome and Persia were the super

 that it became a law of the land.
 - Before Hijrat no one had experienced the beauty of the social and political system of Islam. After it this glorious aspect of our religion was well known all over the world.
 - Muslims were fearful and isolated before Hijrat but after it they gained strength and ultimate supremacy in
 powers then. After the event of Hijrat Muslims were able to dominate them all and itself remained a superpower for centuries.
 - A limited number of people had accepted Islam before Hijrat. After Hijrat Islam spread all over the world.
 - Before Hijrat there were monopolies of the Jews who
 exploited the people through usury. After Hijrat the system of social justice of Islam replaced it.
The Mujahideen, July! / August, 199
r
\Page 26
 - It was before Hijra that Arabs were divided in their feuding tribes. After Hijra when Islam spread all men turned into brothers.
 - Arabs before Hijra were mostly ignorant, wild and wicked. After it they changed into learned, progressive and good.
 - Before the advent of Hijra the world in general was sinking in ignorance and darkness. After undertaking Hijra Arabs had the torch of
reached that degree of faith (Iman) wherein he transcends all the m aterial benefits for the cause of Islam. In that case Allah (SwT) helps the faithfuls from the sources that were unthinkable for them. When they embrace an unknown future for the cause of Allah (SwT), Allah Almighty too supports them in unknown ways. When man becomes free from the chains of the material bond, he is capable to perform miracles because he knows no more obstacles in his way. That is why Hijrat and Jihad are two basic pillars of Islam. Without them Muslim Ummah is like a heap of sand. Love
 knowledge and civilization. This was through Arabs that Europe and America came out of their dark ages and the industrial revolution was possible.
         The question arises what is the secret that makes Hijrat catalyst for so many great changes in history. In fact Hijrat (migration from one’s home), is the victory of faith in Allah (SwT) over the worldly considerations as home, property, farms, language, dear relatives and friends etc. It means that man has
for life is an obstacle to Jihad and love for worldly things represents a hurdle to Hijrat. When these hurdles are removed from one’s heart, success is at hand. Hijrat is like a plant planted in some other place that is favourable for the growth of that plant.Even for worldly purposes Hijrat rewards the migrated. Hijrat is a great sacrifice and the manifestation of faith in the power of Allah (SwT). It pays here and hereafter.
Mujahideen cut off power
supplies to Kabul
      Kabul (AFP)-power supplies to the Afghan capital have collapsed following a Mujahideen attack of a state-run power station southeast of the city, officials said her on Monday.
      Electricity supplies to the capital were first disrupted on Sunday following intermittent clashes between Mujahideen and and government troops, and the blackout continued for more than 24 hours.
      A government spokesman confirmed that the blackout was the result of skirmishes and said the city of 1.5 million people had only emergency supplies.
                                                                                                             The Mujahideen, July / August, 199
I Page 27
   Palestine ) The Intifadha movement
   Acifullah-MA.
         The revolutionary Islamic movement of Palestine, Intifadha’ has entered its fourth year. The people of Palestine on this occasion, pledge to continue their great struggle till the final victory is achieved. They know the price of this pledge but are prepared to pay it. Already they are wading through the rivers of blood and tears for their great cause of freedom.
         During the last three years Palestinians have demonstrated an unprecedented level of fearlessness, stam ina and steadfastness in fighti ng the Jewish usurpers of their sacred land. As the courage shown by Palestinians is unparalleled in history, so is the nature of their fight agaisnt their enemies. While the Zionist forces use all kinds of modem weapons as tanks, machine guns and missiles, the great Mujahideen of intifadha movement fight only with stones and clubs as they have no other weapons to fight with. Unlike other world movements the vanguards of intifadha are small children and women. Then they do not fight the zionist regime in mountains and jungles but in the streets of cities as well as villages. They continue their struggle in a demonstrative form as public meeting,processions,pickettings, strikes, demands and combats. They do all in public to liberate Al-Quds Alsharif and to retake their lost country .The usurpers did all to suppress the movement but all in vain. The three-year old Irtifadha has gained more than the entire Palestinian struggle since 1948. The moral defeat, the zionist army is faced with every day, is immeasurable.
         Armed with stones and sticks, the innocent children and women speak to the zionist forces with courage,” Jews, usurpers, get out of our homes”. But they respond with killings, tortures, disgrace and imprisonments. According to an Arabic journal, during the last three years, one thousand and three
 hundred (1300) Palestinians have been killed nad other thousands inj ured, about 70000 young Palestianins are suffering in torture celles. In occupied Palestine thousands of Muslims houses are buldozed and children stopped from going to technical institutes. On violating the unjust rules, they are dispersed with tear gas. But whatever the obstacles, the Palestinian people have resolved to advance.
          For the last three years 250,000 Palestinians have been denied their right to settle in the occupied territory kept for the settlement of Russian Jews. In Moscow about 35000 passports are issued every month to the Russian Jews for they could migrate to Palestine. By the end of 1992, it is estimated, more than a million Jews will have migrated to Israel.
          In the opinion of international observers, the extraordiray resistance by Palestians is a great puzzle for Israel and US. They are amazed at the force which has kept the struggle of these hungry thirsty and unarmed people in tact. It is more surprising, especially, in the absence of any outside help.
          Since Sept. 7,1987 there have been 12000 combats between Palestianins and zionist army as a result of these fights about3570 Jew army men have been killed and wounded. What Palestinians have suffered has been immense. During their fights the Mujahideen also used daggers and kin ves along with stones and sticks.
          Influenced by Intifadha’s Islamic movement, many people in the region have risen against the zionist. For instance, an Egyptian namely Abusehan attacked an Israeli camp in dark and killed five soldiers. Similarly a Lebanese women hurled a bomb on zionist and caused them a big damage in men and material. In the like manner, a 22 year old Egyptian Mohammad Hasan and Salman Khater attacked the slept zionist and killed them, these examples are
 enough to substantiate that the Intifadha Mujahids have spread in the region to prepare the young Muslims for the cause of Islam. All the justice loving people especially the Muslims the world over have been disgusted with the cruelty and callousness demonstrated by the Zionists. They wish to see this horribal game finish and the villians meet their logical end. The zionist too have been harassed because of the world movements turn ing against Isreal. The new generation greatly abhors the Zionists dirty game. It is likely that one day the youth all over the world cross their respectti ve borders to take on the Zionists and that would be the final day of Israeli government.
         An Israeli diplomat was killed in Egypt in 1985. After this an Israeli delegate was murdered al ter being locked up. No clue was found to these incidences not notwithstanding a great effort by the Egyptian governemnt. Why ? Because the guerillas of Islamic movements do these acts voluntarily. They do it to make the Zionists realize the result of their acts. If the Arab govememnts helped their Palesinian brethren, they would shorten their joumy to freedom.
         Israel got $35b loan from other countires during the last three years to spend on the occupied territory, but to no avail. Business centres always remain closed due to demonstrations. This has suffered even the Jew labour in financial terms. Last days 10000 unemployed Israelis participated in a protest against Shamir governemnt. Israeli people also suffer because of the continued unrest But the Israeli rulers harbour the vain hopes of one day becoming the masters of the whole region.
         It is due to the Intifadha movement alone that resolutions have been passed against Israel in UN. The securitary council resolution 672 has condemned the Israeli atrocities. The woprld public opinion has turned against the Isreaeli regime. Now it is duty of all ______________Continued on Page 46
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
IPage 28
        INTRIGUS OF POWER
            A
          However, Jamal Abdul-Naseer was able to realize some of his pan-Arabist objectives, before he died under mysterious circumstances. As far back as 1952, a young commissioned officer though he was, Jamal manipulated well hisMuslim Brotherhood connection and the common nationalist orientation he received at the Egyptian Military Academy, in sacking the royal house of king Farooq in Cairo. America had earlier been taken into confidence by the clique of these military boys so as to checkmate the over-whelming support and popularity which the Muslim Brotherhood commanded in Egypt. Truly Lo his calculations, the coup d’etat succeeded. Farouq’s kingdom was liquidated and Jamal became the major power in the country, The two-face internal struggles lhaL followed were all part of the nationalist strategics. They fought those conservative superior officers in the army and broke their strongly-worded allegiance to the Islam ic activists. The Islamic revolutionaries were trapped and butchered mercilessly through a well laid repressive formula of the highest order. This treacherous stab-in-the back, meticulously performed by these so-called young Egyptian army revolutionaries, was infacta professional service to the cause of Zionism, which had been badly shaken by the Brotherhood’s role in 1948 Muslims’ confrontation with imperialism in the Middle East. Similarly, it was also a form of gratitude to America which later reciprocated by publicly condemning European joint aggression on Cairo qnd went further by entrenching the young officers in power.
                                                                                                        From here onwards, Jamal Abdul Naseer played the role of a real
 pan-Arabist. He accepted the responsibility of training young Arab officers from all over the region. He projected himself a revolutionary even if all his ambitions were directed against the sovereignty of his country and progress of humanity instead of the avowed foreign imperialists he setout to fight. He was also able to establish himself in a question of a very short period as a world-class despot by silencing all oppositions at home and transforming Egypt not only into a practical one party state but also a political hell for Muslim activists. Cairo became the most active center in the Middle East:acadcmically, socio-politically and militarily. It equally attracted foreigners and Muslims all over the world.
         Though the Ikhwan movement came under fire from nationalist repressive policies, but did manage to gather adherents and zealous followers all around the region. This without doubt made Cairo poly-centric in its compositions, now divided between the Brotherhood, conservative, communist-socialist groups and Nationalists. Since the last mentioned controlled the government, all official organs of the authorities reflected their objectives. Jamal Abdul Naseer gathered round himself, young military boys from neighboring Arab stales, and injected in to them his barren pan-Arabist philosophies. These officers like Anwar Saddat of Egypt, Hafiz Assad of Syria, Jafar Numciri of S udan and others, were properly indoctrinated with the objectives and methods of Middle East nationalism. It was in Cairo they all formed their first conceptualization of brutality and treachery as basic instruments of totalitarian survival. It was actually to the credit of Egyptian nationalists generally, and Jamal Abdul
 Naseer in Particular that conservative monarchies existing then in most part of the region were shown their exit, including, the one in Libya. Though the Egyptian regime in Cairo could not lorm an ultra-Arab empire as desired but it won enough converts among young army officers that merited commendation.
         Saddam Hussain is the most successful disciple of Jamal Abdul Naseer, and a probable heir to the cast his mentor occupied as the Arab-Causc most famous champion. On that basis, the last devastating crises angle Baghdad seeks today to play the role Cario once played, and Ba'athism wants to prove itself as a natural continuation of Arab nationalist movement. Finally, all what Saddam Hussain cherishes as his ambition now is nothing but lo be a living incamalcof his former instructor. He wants Baghdad to be the next political center of all activities in the Middle East and himself the unchallenged, emperor of a vast Arab kingdom at all costs, even of it entails mass destruction, callous betrayal and outright sellout of the whole region of Zionist shylocks.
         Following the 1958 expulsion of the British-made monarchy in Iraq, Gen. Abdul-Karim Qussim ran into trouble with other Pan-Arabist by considering himself an Iraqi nationalist first be fore con tern pla ti n g to be a M i dd 1 c East Arab regionalist. The Ba’athists among others took up arms against him and tried many times to topple his government by numerous excruciating unrests. In 1963, the enemies were too much for Abdul-Karim Qussim to suppress and he could not even win any reliable support from the self-appointed guarantors of regional despotism. Later in the year, another military putsch successfully went through, and the General with some of his leading
                                                                                                            The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991
Page 29
 colleagues lost their lives. The role of Ba’athist party in this latest development remains up till now very contentious, even though its members had themselves earlier joined the broad base opposition against the government and attempted more than once to assassinate the head of state. Soon after this, the opposition broke down as a united front and a new power-struggle ensued among group-members of the shaky resistance league with bitterness, brutality and treachery which had long characterized the vengeful Iraqi politics. By 1969, the balance appeared to have tilled quite well in favour of the Ba’athist, and Gen. Ahmad Hussain Al-Bakr,—a senior .military officers but naive political administrator for the turbulent Iraqi scene— assumed power.
          Saddam (then only 32yrs old) was latter appointed the vice-president and with a combination of red-tape diplomacy, espionage intrigues and blunt use of terror, was able to outflank his powerful rival in party. Eventually he rose up to become the sole dominating actor and the real ruler of Iraq. However, in theory and according to official hierarchy he was still behind Gen. Al-Baker. Though Ba’athist parly had been a quasi-elitist party but the new vice-president did surprisingly manage to stream-line both its membership and acti vites in such a fashion as to be mistaken for another version of “barber-shop” Mafia which was associated with Italian Sicily, but now in the heartland of Arabian desert.
          The government, right from its commencement lacked both grass root support and popular followings. Its functionaries had never been interested in mass movement of the people. Apart from scanty sympathizers it could muster in Tikrit, which was said to be the constituency of both Ahmad Hussain Al-Bakr and his deputy Saddam Hussain, plus few clusters of admirers in the broader Tigris province, Ba’athism as an ideology enjoyed no other local support. It had therefore lost all legitimacy to rule, and likewise foreited the needed legality to speak for the people or stay in power right from inception.
         It can thus be seen that the political pyramid of Ba’athist administration was a hollow structure from the on-set and the initial lack of popular power-base presented a major hurdle before the ambitious tyrants in Baghdad. But to Saddam Hussain’s sharp acumen this appeared to be a minor puzzle because of the total confidence he personally reposed in his own innate witticism. As a foreign commentator puts it. ...’’Saddam Hussain is a real pragmatist who allows reality to over-ride readily his ideological premonitions..” Well it is still debatable if Saddam Hussain has got any ideology in the true sense to merit any premonitions and whether Pan-Arabism from which Ba’athism draws its inspirations has got any solid doctrinal foundation remain to be clear. Unfortunately this observer made all aforementioned issues as vague as ever and even more ambiguous to his readers, however, he made a good point here.
 Since he was convinced and determined to make himself the life commander-in-chief of the whole nation, Saddam Hussain to his own credit, quickly admitted sincerely that he was facing better equipped and larger opposi lions at home. They formed a long variegated spectrum of opposition movement starting from some of his Ba’athist co-party workers and military officers to resistance-leaders in exile. He cleverly classified them into major groups and filed them up patiently and orderly before the party pol itical guillotine. It was dramatic and apparently impressive, except the objectives which were all colored with personal impudence.
         His energies were first directed against his own rivals within the same pan-Arabist movement. At this point Saddam Hussain exhibited his latent aggressive tendencies and unleashed torrential waves of allegations as facades in eliminating all present and potential adversaries in the party. The world took this too with mute lips and nobody felt justified to protect the rights of the oppressed populace. Morally none had the gut to speak because CIA,KGB, SAVAK, MOSSAD and other contemporary heirs of Gestapo were involved in similar international intrigues abroad.
         After h is successful operation against party rivals and universi ly protesters, the now stronger ruler of Baghdad turned on another potent adversary in the country. He selected the Shiasas the next victims of suppression. The external battle he was fighting happened to be against a predominantly Shia community. The Islamic revolution in Iran had inspired resistance in Iraq prior to the out break of war as well as in the beginning of hostitics between the two countries. What Saddam did was to launch a new process of witch-hunt. Those who had no serious determination for opposition were driven en-mass
Saddam Hussain is the most successful disciple of Jamal Abdul Naseer,and a probable heir to the seat his mentor occupied as the Arab-Cause most famous champion. On that basis, the last devastating crises between Iraq and Kuwait should also be viewed from this additional angle Baghdad seeks today to play the role Cairo once played, and Ba’athism wants to prove itself as a natural continuation of Arab nationalist movement. Finally, all what Saddam Hussain cherishes as his ambition now is nothing but to be a living incarnate of his former instructor. He wants Baghdad to be the next political center of all activities in the Middle East and himself the unchallenged, emperor of a vast Arab kingdom at all costs, even of it entails mass destruction, callous betrayal and outright sellout of the whole region to Zionist shylocks
 out of Iraq into Iran on the pretext that their roots were in the latter and not in the former. The few who stood their ground were effectively executed, either during public demonstrations, police interrogations or found dead under ambiguous circumstances.
         However, there remained a third group among Shia opposition in Iraq which was equally sympathetic to Islamic revolutionary development in Iraq but due to its official positions in the army and other government establishments completely applied the :Tuq-qiyah” teaching of Shia ideology in burrowing Ba’athist regime from within. But Saddam Hussain proved to be too clever and he indeed out-manoevered this group in their own game. What he did was to turn them into sand bags and human for tifications by deliberately placing them on the red lines of the battles. They were thereby caught between the determined human-waves of Iranian offensives and moderous missile-fires of Iraq Republican Guards. This strategy worked well for the Ba’athists. It was to them using a stone to kill many birds at a time, and the danger posed by the second file of opposition was eventually neutralized.
         Finally the old Kurdish question re-surfaced again after being betrayed by the former Shah of Iran by signing the Aligiers accord of 1975. Tehran during the war with Iraq rekindled the Kurdish autonomist struggle. To distabilitize Ba’athist regime in Baghdad, Iranians waved the banners of hope and independence before the poor Kurdish populace. The old aids and supports were immediately resumed. Military training were resuscitated and the Kurds were advised to open two more battle fronts to weaken Ba’athist army in Baghdad. The first to be internal through skilled agents in sabotage-operations behind Iraqi lines. The other was to be real guerrilla war-fare for the liberation of the so-called Kurdistan.
         The lay-out was almost successful was not actually Tehran
                                                                                                    The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 I
 interested in Talabani or Barzani, Nor as it interested in Kurdistan or Kurdish autonomy or independence. The whole issue was reduced to a conflict of ego that has nothing to do with the so-called Islamic fundamentalism. For one thing the Kurds had always been the losers. Since neither Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria nor Soviet Union which had 24%, 18%, 52%,5%and 1% of Kurdish population respectively, was prepared (nor is prepared) to grant any concession that would eventually alter the present sociopolitical balance in the region It was therefore mere politics or call it diplomacy of intrigues that forced the Iranians to hypocritically wave the banners of hope and independence before the Kurds.
          The ruler of Iraq had long detested fighting on many fronts. More importantly his army were initially trained for conventional war fare and not for the hit-and-run operations of the secessionist. Baghdad actually became threatened and with the living memory of a near Kurdish victory in late 1975, the authorities became very worried. Nothing had Shaken the ruling clique of tyrants in Baghdad more than this old resistance movement. Iraq took some ill-planned and apparently panic measures in confronting this revived autonomists but failed raising the apprehension in Baghdad beyond control.
                                                                                                                 After series of bombings and straffings couldn’t disloge the Kurdish
                    page 30
 fighters Saddam turned to his imperialist masters and borrowed a leaf from American shame in Nagazaki and Hiroshima. He ordered high quantities of cyanide bombs to be exploded over Halabsha. Plane sorties were intermittently sent out to exterminate the whole community, a decision that resulted in many thousand casualties among civilians. Unfortunately the majority were innocent women, children, the old, weak and pessimist adults who refused to partake in opposition against Baghdad. As for the real. Kurdish freedom Fighters who actually posed a threat to Ba’athist rule, they weren’t in the city but in the inaccessible ends of the jungle.
          Though chemical weapons were said to be internationally banned but the questions are multiple here. How did Baghdad get these lethal weapons and why did Saddam Hussain go scot free even after using the same chemical bombs to wipe out advancing columns of Iranian soldiers on more than one occasion ? To sol ve the first riddle; Daniel Bejamin, filling his report for the American Time Magazine says....”Who’ is responsible for the threat posed by Saddam Hussain?” Then answers bluntly himself thus...” actually every industrialized nation assisted the Iraqi leader in some way after he came to power in 1979: Until he invaded Kuwait last month, greed and self-delusion about his intentions knew no boundaries...”
         Though a belated regret and an hypocritical holier-than-thou posture, but this is just the beginning of the story. As for most of the chemical plants in Iraq he writes..” A crackdown on Todes Kramer, or merchants of death, is now under way. Economics Minister Helmut Hassaman has announced that 59 West German firms are being investigated for illegal weapons. In one case, even seven people have been arrested and charged with supplying plans and parts for the chemical weapon plants in the Iraqi city ofSamarra. Therequisite materials were shipped from West Germany under permits claiming that they were for pesticide production...” It may be fair for us to ask here that who is fooling whom? After a decade of massive shipment of materials, active cooperation of multi-nationals, heavy production of bombs, open explosions on towns and villages and documented multi-national authorization...now a crackdown?... on what and by whom?
         As for why Ba’athist regime was allowed to go unpunished and even encouraged on this chosen path of terror, the reasons could be understood from both prevalent polices in the West and existing line of thinking in the White House. Today as before, some leading exponents of American politics such as national Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and the group of “So-called pragmatists around Bush” believed fervently that ...“US must not expand its war aims of go beyond restoration of status quo anti...” The reason for this they argued... “to oust Saddam and weaken his military, might bring host of nasty repercussions, including seething Arab sentiment against the US” imperialists” and their ruling Arab cohorts, a radical shiat take-over of Iraq and the weakening of Iraq as a military counterweight to Iran and Syria..” Says the official lime recently. We can thus see that the continous existence of foreign made ideologies like Ba’athism are therefore very necessary in maintaining imperialist interests in the Middle East and Saddam Hussain on Lhim basis gets away with all crimes. For his and solely on the honor of hisZionist masters.... the sky is always the limit...!
                                                                                              ■ The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991 I
 Najib's ouster • • •
   Continued from Page 14
         “This is not our problem to decide the fate of Afghanistan, but to persuade these Afghan leaders for coming closer and resolve their differences,” he maintained.
         He affirmed that both Iran and Pakistan had a close contact and cooperation with Tehran and Peshwar-based Afghan leaders for a permanent negotiated peace in Afghanistan.
         Meanwhile, Engineer Qutbuddin Hillal, a representative of top Afghan leader Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, pointed out that the 5-pointpeace formula was not acceptable to Hizb-i-Islami and other Afghan Mujahideen groups.
                                                                                                       Asked what are unacceptable
                  I Page 31
 points of the 5-point peace formula, he said majority of the Afghan leaders are not accepting the “intra-Afghan talks, mechanism and any role of Najib’s puppet regime in the post-peace process in Afghanistan.
          “We are ready to sign a consensus agreement provided Najib regime, Watan and Bhas parties along with role of Zahir Shah in the peace process are eliminated,” he said adding “We consider that continued process of peaceful dialogue will bring positive results.
          He, however, ruled out the possibility of participation in talks in which Najib’s representative is also attending.___________________________
leader, Velayati discuss Afghan issue
        Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, chairman political affairs Department of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan called on the Iranian foreign Minister Mr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Tuesday (July, 30) afternoon who was in Islamabad in connection with the tripartite most an Afghan issue.
        Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, represented an a representative of the Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
        Both leaders discussed matters relating to the Afghan issue and exchanged views on the ways and means of the solution of the issue.
                                                                                     Dr. Velayati foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of
 Iranian, assured Mr. Qutbaddin Hilal that Iran will spare no efforts for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, in accordance with the aspiration of its people.
         Meanwhile Iran has sought some clarifications from UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar about his 5-point peace formula of the settlement of prolonged Afghan conflict, as there are some glaring “ambiguities,” Iran has found in it.
         This was observed by Iranian foreign Minister Dr, Ali Akbar Velayati while talking to M The Muslim" just an hour before his departure from here following two-day tripartite talks on the Afghan issue. Dr. Velayati said that his countries from UN Secretary General about some of the “vital points” as provided in the 5-point peace formula.                       f
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 32
Kashmir
lilllilliplliiiiiii

                                                                                                        -Mian Faqir Ahmad
        The problem of Kashmir is today a burning issue for the international community. The spilling of blood of the Kashmiri Muslims has succeeded in attracting world attention to their just cause. It has also exposed the heinous crimes continuously committed by the so-called largest democracy against innocent Kashmiri women and children.
        During the partition of the Indian sub-continent, the Hindu Maharaja of Kashmir, against the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Kashmiris who are Muslims, annexed the state of Kashmir to India. The people of Kashmir rose against the decision and started a forceful movement. They wanted to annex their state to Pakistan. They were about to succeed in their violent struggle when Jawaharhul Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, took the case of the Kashmiri people totheU.N. This move on the part of Nehru had the effect of cooling down the temper of the Kashmiris, it also slowed the tempo of the movement. The Security Council passed a resolution directing the Indian government to arrange for a plebiscite through which the people of Kashmir would decide either to join Pakistan or India. The Indian government accepted the resolution. Over 43 years have elapsed since the passage of the U.N. resolution but
the Indian government has still not held the plebiscite. They still occupy the land of a Muslim people. This illegal occupation by India has resulted in three wars between Pakistan and India. It represents a permanent point of tension on the Indian Sub-Continent. The freedom movement of the Kashmiri people has been continuing for the last 40-plus years with varying degrees of intensity. At times, the Indian occupation forces have succeeded in temporarily suppressing the struggle. It was in the winter of 1989 that the oppressed people rose with unprecedented vigor and vitality. This time they are not to be hushed. Do or die is now their motto.
        For the past one and a half years the duration of the fresh movement, all the suppressive activities of the Indian forces have failed to quell the struggle for freedom. Frustrated by their failure
imperialists, as a result of the atrocities, expected an early success. But the cruelties and atrocities perpetrated against the inhabitants of the Kashmir Valley turned out to be an effective incentive for the movement. In this regard all the calculations of the Indian government proved wrong. The more crimes they committed against the people, the more fearless they became. During the Gulf Crisis the Jihad of Kashmir was overlooked by the world and its media, but the Mujahideen continued their struggle unabated. After the cessation of hostilities in the Gulf, the Jihad in Kashmir figures high on the list of world issues.
        World observers have keenly watched how human rights have been violated in Kashmir. A carefully prepared record shows that during this period 11,000 Kashmiri Mujahideen have been martyred, 450
they have resorted to the worst kind children and citizens killed, 4000 of human rights violations in the     seriously wounded, 300 crippled,
Valley. In the beginning the Hindu    8,000 houses and shops gutted,
 42,000 women and men arrested without warrants, 120 out of 11,000 young men imprisoned in torture cells died, 50,000 have gone underground for fear of arrest, 16,000 crossed the border into Azad Kashmir, 170 schools and hospitals destroyed, hundreds of mosques demolished, untold crops and forests burnt, and women disgraced.
        Kashmiris wanted to keep their movement peaceful but especially due to the disgrace of women the peaceful struggle changed into a violent Jihad. An incident in the outskirts of Srinagar wherein the Rajput Regiment of the Indian army committed shameful crimes against the women was especially painful to the people. A journalist of the British daily newspaper, “Independent” visited that area where the attrocities happened. This brought the western press in protest. Moved by this, the British parliament appointed a committee to record human rights violations in occupied Kashmir. The committee on human rights violations in the American Congress has also verified the gruesome acts of human rights violations there. A story in “The New York Times” exposed what the Indian army has done to Kashmiri women. After reviewing the evidence, the European parliament expressed its concern over the state of affairs in Kashmir.
        This year the government of Pakistan is planning to send delegations to different countries to highlight the situation and muster support for the Kashmir issue. The government is intending to raise this issue in the U.N. forum this fall.
        In fact, it is the duty of every Muslim country, organization and individual to project this issue in its true perspective. The genesis of the problem, the true cause of Kashmiri
 ■ The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 M
 Muslims, the U.N. resolution, the human rights violations and the resultant Jihad are no secret. People all over the world support a fair cause. It is our obligation to arouse world opinion and help the people understand the cause of the Kashmiri people. Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Ameer of Jamiat Islami Pakistan, headed a delegation composed of different political elements in Pakistan to such Islamic countries as Turkey, Egypt, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and Abu Dhabi. As this was a non-governmental delegation, reflecting the real wishes of the people, its effect was great.
        After the resolutions passed by influential bodies such as the British Parliament, the American Congress, the European Parliament, the O.I.C., and the Islamic Conference in Sudan in favor of the Kashmiri people, the time has come to raise the issue in the U.N. After enforcing its resolutions against Iraq, the U.N. has a duty to enforce its resolution vis-a-vis Kashmir.
        India holds that after an agreement between Pakistan and India this issue cannot be discussed on the U.N. forum. A plebiscite is what the Kahmiris are struggling for. Pakistan and India should negotiate bilaterally but only on the ‘how’ to arrange for a plebiscite.
        The freedom of Kashmir is in the interest of Kashmir, India, and Pakistan alike. It is a festering wound in Pak-Indian relations. Over this issue they have fought wars. This is the problem that burdens the defence budget of each country, Pakistan and India. Through this both the economies are immensely strained. Apart from this, it constitutes an internal headache for India. They suffer both in all ways. “Live and let live” is the rule to go by.
        The Indian ruling elite should not fail to understand the
                                                                                                               Page 33 ■■■
 spirit of the times. The last decade of the 20th century is a myth-shaking decade. Russia fled from Afghanistan, the Communist Empire fell apart. Eastern Europe went its own way. Even the states within Russia are nearing their independence. Nambia has gained its independence. In South Africa, Nelson Mandela has been released. Vietnam found no other way but to leave Kampuchea. Palestinians are on their way to freedom. Saddam Hussein failed to deprive the Kuwaiti people of their freedom. That is the way India should tread. “Live and let live”. The sooner they understand the better. They say India is the largest democracy. But what does the term democracy imply? Give the Kashmiris what they want. And what the Kashmiris want is freedom.
                                                Mossad also active in Afghanistan
         Reports pouring in from India say s that a Jews international office has been established in the Indian capital which belongs to "Mossad”, the Israeli secret agency. The report says the main function of this office is to recruit agents, and called information about Pakistan, occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan.
         This officers located in Street No, 95 in the Indian capital. The India Today magazine had recently reported the "Mossad”, RAW and WAD (Wazarat-e-Amniyal-e-Daulal Afghanistan) had signed a security agreement four years back for cooperation betweenthe there organization on Pakistan, occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan.
         Some reports say that two of the Israeli commandos who were killed or injured or had escaped from Kashmiri Mujahideen, had visited Jalalabad and Qandahar to help Kabul regime against Afghan Mujahideen, before the ir covert visit tooccupied Kashmir-
         Ahmad Muaffaq Zaidan (The writer is a correspondent of Sharq al-Awst', London).
                                                                                                            The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 34
                    GENERALFUNDAMENTALS
     ERITREAN ISLAMIC
                       MOVEMENT
INTRUDUCT IONTher was a conference sometime back about the future of Eritrea as as independent state. That was before the defeat of the ruling Junta in Addis Ababa. The conference was inf act meant for a re-organization ofEritrean Islamic Movement so as to withstand theychallenges posed by nationalists, secularist and socialist parties in a future Eritrea. This was our own report
Translated by Yasin Murtadah
       1:- The Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement is founded on a true Islamic faith that is in total consonance with the Revealed Book of Allah and the practices and teaching (Sunnah) of the Holy Prophet in accordance to the understanding of the righteous earliest generation. This is comprehensive, thereby covering all shades of human endeavors: Spiritual, intellectual and Sociopolitical, Dawah techniques, principles of consultation and Jihad has been re-emphasized by the conference as the accepted instruments of change.
       2:- We place an emphasis on the fact that the fabric of Islamic community can only be built in total adoption of Islam. We therefore rejectall form of partism dogmatism and schism. Arabic is the official Language of Eritrea.
       3:- Accomplishment of Islamic goals through propagation, orientation and jihad.
       4:- Developing and advancing the course of Jihad.
       5:- Preservation and and
unity of Muslim community.
       6:- Raising the living standard of everybody in all
 human endeavors.
        7:- Projecting the magnanimity of Islam and its righteous Social values in every individual.
        8:- The sincere urge of selecting a sincere and disciplined leadership that is competent intellectually and otherwise so as to fulfill its official responsibilities.
        9:- Our foreign relation is based on co-operation, integration, consultation,
                                               Political Document
and organizations on all international platforms.
       10:- Certainly Islam is
built on goodness and justice. A peace-loving person is treated peacefully and belligerency is met equally with confrontation. Islam likewise accepts armed resistance until Allah inherits the world and that which is there-in.
        The Eritrean Liberation Front came into existence in the 1960s with the professed aim of salvaging the country. This constituted the backbone of the Liberation Front. It could be confirmed from the point view of
A map of East Africa
 the huge amount of contribution in cash and kind. It was indeed a pity that after the Liberation front took off, such a revolutionary project became a source of distress to the Muslims because the rank and file of the Front became infested with anti-Islamic thoughts and hostile activities that were completely against the Islamic identity of the nation.
        By and large, those Muslims whose dedication to their faith appeared deep seated did not give up hope and never betrayed the trust to preserve the Muslims. Nor did they capitulate before the might and brutalities of communists,
 Christians and secularists. The enemies of Eritrean Muslim community did much to destroy Islamic roots in the society but failed woefully in the eventuality. As the atrocities of the anti-Islamic forces increased: dedicated Muslims reviewed their tactics and method ended to be the best not only protecting it from a probable crush of defeat by the imperialist forces but the fact that the Muslims were also able to further Islamic call openly, challenging anti-Islamic ideologies and inviting more people to their fold as well as strengthening the united Muslim country.
        Today, Our Eritrean
 I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
 national community has accepted totally the Islamic armed resistance in defending its faith, honor and ethics this is a natural consequence in view of the deep Islamic culture rooted in the society. Our Muslim community is prepared to bear the responsibility entrusted to it by Islam in preserving their creed and aspirations. Allah the Most Glorious says:- “Then we inherited the Book to those whom we selected among our slaves.
 There were some among them who were unjust to themselves others were moderate and still among them too were those who were always pioneers in goodness by Allah’s grace..”.
        In the same vien, Islamic community became united and formidable before the combined forces of foreign imperialists, Ethiopian colonialist and their local stooges that were propagating destructive ideologies.
        These various anti-Islamic activities forced the Muslim community to stand up in
   ■ - ——*--I Page 35 ~    - - -
 resistance protecting their faith and honor. Confrontations erupted in many places against the nationalist Front such as in (Baraka), (Dankaliyya) and other cities. In the ensuing resistances many Muslims were killed unarmed. These ugly occurrences forced the Muslims both at home and abroad in unifying their programmes, as well as forming a united front in confronting anti-Islamic National elements. Such attempts were crowned with success manifested in the number of various Muslim organizations which participated in the first general conference of Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement. The congress was held between (19th-21st) Rabiul-Thanni 1409, corresponding to (28th-30th) Nov, 1988.
        Names of participating organizations were as follows
 1:- Eritrean Islamic unity Bureau for Emigrants in Sudan
 2:- Islamic people’s Committee for the defence of Eritrean oppressed populace
 3:- Eritrean Muslim Captains Organization
 4:- Islamic Front for the Liberation of Eritrea
        “Allah will indeed help whoever helps His cause, certainly Allah is all-powerful the Exalted”
 First General congress of the Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement 21/Rabiu-Thanni/ 1409.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 36
                                  Telling lies, a routine matter for America
         Annoyed by the support which the steadfast Mujahideen organizations extended to Iraqi Muslims against the indiscriminate, inhuman and unjust assault and bombardment by American and allied troops, the U.S. representative to the Afghan resistance has once again used very harsh, derogatory, and rather uncivilised language unbecoming of a diplomatagainstMujahideen leaders like Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, Professor Abdur Rasool Sayyaf and Prof. Burhannuddin Rabbani.
         For the Afghan Mujahideen, it is not strange to listen to terms like terrorists or drug traffickers being used against them by American spokesmen. They understand the frustration Washington feels for herfailure to install a puppet leadership over the heads of the Afghan Mujahideen. A leadership which could serve their interests and designs.
         The United States has done her best to assign a major role to the exmonarch, Zahir Shah, in Afghan politics, but has failed miserably due to the brave, courageous and intelligent leadership of the Afghan Mujahideen. The Afghan people will notallow an American puppet to replace Najib’s regime in Kabul.
        The crux of the problem is that both America and Russia fear the rising force of Islam and they have decided to
President Saddam
 work together to block the coming into power of the “Islamic fundamentalists” in any part of the world, including Afghanistan. In an interview with the BBC, Mr. Tomson termed Engineer Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Rabani as “terrorists”. Interestingly enough, this fact dawned on the American administration after more than
 Commentary
                          By Israrullah Khan
 a decade during which the heroes of the Afghan people were in fact these “terrorists”. Even the American public would laugh at such a silly U-tum of their leadership. But telling lies and betraying friends has become a routine matter in American foreign policy.
        The Afghan Mujahideen were well aware that whatever little support the American administration was extending to the Afghan resistance was not because they were sympathetic to the cause of the Mujahideen butbecasue of U.S. fear of communism. Now that Russian troops have withdrawn from Afghanistan and drastic changes have taken place in Eastern Europe, the threat of communism has almost evaporated. The Western policy of “containment of communism” has now been replaced by the policy of “containment of Islam”. The United States sees Islam as the
 single most dangerous threat to its imperialistic designs and this is why the drama of the Gulf War was staged, the military machine of Iraq destroyed, and the wealth of both Kuwait and Saudi Arabia was sucked to fill the pockets of the West The stage is now being set to force the weak Arab states to recognize Israel and accept its hegemony in the Middle East
         The American administration should know that it could not deceive or force the Mujahideen to change their course or forget about the establishment of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan. The Afghan Mujahideen can continue their struggle without any outside help because the help of Almighty Allah is enough for them. If they were able to capture Khost without outside help, Kabul will also fall to them, Insha ‘Allah.
         Mr. Tomson also announced that the “fundamentalist” groups in Afghanistan would receive no more U.S. aid because of their anti-American policies. The U.S. should know that the “Muslim fundamentalists” have never begged for American aid in the past and they will not beg for it in the future. But the U.S. should also realize that the Mujahideen have starting viewing Washington as the No.l enemy of the Afghan people and their independence.
                                Another US attack on Iraq likely
          There are fresh reports that
 America is preparing to Attack nuclear installation of Iraq on pretext that Baghdad is trying to conceal some of its nuclear installations from the United Nations mission. Iraq, however, says that it has produced complete information to UN mission and America is looking for some excuse to once again attack Iraq.
          One is astonished over the double standard applied by the United
 Nations in dealing with different countries. Israel has rejected all resolutions passed by United Nations but no action is taken against her. No multi-national force is set up to force Israel to vacate occupied Arab territories. No deadline is set for Israel, asking her to put out of operation its nclear installations. No force is used to compel India to abide by UN resolutions and give right of self-determination to the people of Kashmir.
         It seems as if United Nations has been hijacked by United States. UN passed resolutions after resolutions during Gulf war in order to punish and humiliate a Muslim country and even allowed use of force without giving diplomscy a chance to settle the issue peacefully. If this trends continue and double standard policy is not abondoned, United Nations organization is bound to meet the fate of its predecessor, i.e the league of Nations.
         USA should know that no nation could dominate the world all alone. This is the fact, supported by history. America should see very soon, Insha Allah that followers of Islam would dash all its dreams of world supremacy to the ground. If Afghan Mujahideen could defeat Soviet Union, having biggest military machine in the world, America and it capitalism are bound to face the same fate.
                                  Beg fears Indian attack on Pakistan
         Pakistan chief of the Army staff has said that conditions were fast changing in the region and shadows of war had started appearing.
         Addressing troops in the different parts of the country Gen. Beg said that freedom struggle of Kashmiri Mujahideen was gaining momentum with every passing day and it is now impossible to suppress it “It is quite likely that in sheer desperation India could lead to venture against Pakistan,” he said.
 I The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991 I
         Although Pakistan’s foreign office was quick to dispel impression created by the remarks of the outgoing Army chief of Pakistan and said that there was no imminent danger of Indian attack. The foreign office denied any threatening or anormal troops movements on the Pak-Indian borders and clarified that chief of Army staff Gen. Mirza Aslam Beg” statement on this account was not directed at the immediate situation.
         The foreign office of Pakistan may be having some good reason to issue such a statement but the escalation of Jihad in Kashm ir which is now beyond
 Indian’s ability to control, and presence of Israeli commandoes in Indian occupied Kashmir give credence to the views expressed by Pakistan’s Army chief.
         There were also reports that Israel in collaboration with India has prepared a plan to attack Pakistan’s nuclear Installations at Kahuta and with the arrest of some of Israeli commandoes by Kashmiri Mujahideen, the conspiracy to attack Pakistan’s nuclear installations stands exposed.
         Gen. Mirza Aslam Beg has rightly said that India would not be alone in its adventure against Pakistan as it would be aided by others who are so frantically eager to harm and destabilise Pakistan. He also referred to the presence
 ■■■■■■■■■Page 37 ■HHK1
 of Israeli commandoes in held Kashmir which amply spoke of the designs of the enemy of Pakistan.
                               Mujahideen plan joint military operations
         Another important news which was recieved with great enthusasm and satisfaction was the disclosure of the military representatives of all major seven political organizations of Afghan Mujahideen that joint military operations would soon commence throughout Afghanistan for removal of puppet regime of Kabul and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
         The disclosure which was made at a press conference at Peshawar was attended by military representatives of National Islamic Front, Harakat-e-Inqilab-e-Islami, Ittihad-e-Islami, Afghan National Liberation Front, Jamiat-e-Islami and He'zb-e-Islami Afghanistan.
         It is a matter of great satisfaction that Afghan Mujhaideen have further enhanced their cooperation on battle Field despite conspiracies of enemies to sow seeds of hatred and distrust among their different groups. Kabul regime could not withstand United assault of Mujahideen and their recent victories against Najib administration is ample proof of the fact that with greater coordination and cooperation among Mujahideen is key to the success.
         Realising the conspiracies being hatched by superpowers and especially America to impose a political sol ution of its own liking on Afghanistan, the commanders declared that military victory of Mujahideen was the only viable solution to Afghan problem.
         The military commanders also termed the reported differences between military commanders in central Afghanistan and declared that Mujahideen are united throughout Afghanistan. Wepray to Almighty Allah to help Mujahideen in their sacred cause.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
IPage 38
Is Damans Am gw®it H©
            ID 8 s <e Jt 8 m 8 m m H 3 © m
         It is a great and, as I feel, rather undeserved, honor which the organisers of this Conference have so very kindly and generously done me by inviting me to address you thus to contribute to the aims of the Conference, namely to develop closer relations with the various religious groups, to present the teachings of Islam as they actually are, and to remove misunderstandings about, as it has been called, the most misunderstood religion in the West, so that the Western world may see it in its true image. I am most grateful for this honor and I pray Almighty Allah for H is help and guidance so that I may be able to do justice to the task which lies before me.
         The topic I have been asked to speak about is: “Islam and Racial Problem." When it was proposed to me I accepted it very readily, even eagerly, for some very personal reasons which I may kindly be permitted to mention very briefly. When I was introduced to you, you were told that I am a German Muslim, a German convert to Islam. As a German national, who was bom in the twenties, I spent my childhood and my youth under a political regime which, by the gross and utterly shameful atrocities perpetrated upon racial minorities and by its dogmatic belief in, and its ruthless application of the “Herrenrasse”—or Master—Race Theory, meaning nothing less than the absolute supremacy of a “Germanic Race" over all other races living on this earth, has become synonymous with racism and like all the ills and evils, the misery and suffering, the injustice and brutality that go with it.
         Though by sheer accident of birth, not by any personal virtue or merit and accident of birth, nothing less, decides life and death, happiness and misery, freedom and bondage under a racist regime— I was spared the fate of becoming a victim myself of this obnoxious and pernicious creed. I cannot and shall never forget the terror and excesses which marked its rule in m y country, nor shall I ever forget the plight and agonies of the innocent objects and targets of this diabolic and inhuman system of dividing man and man as I saw it practised around me in the formative years of my life.
          It is against this background and with these personal experiences with racism and its problems and consequences indelibly engraved in my mind and memory that I so eagerly and readily responded to the invitation to expound, as far as my limited knowledge of Islam permits, the Islamic concept of inter-human relations, its high ideal of human brotherhood and actualization of this ideal in history, in contrast to the antagonism between the different races of man as preached and practised by racism.
          Let me commence by taking you on a pilgrimage to the Holy Places of Islam in and around the venerable city of Makkah in present day Saudi Arabia, the city of the “Ka’aba." the Sacred Mosque, which, according to the Holy Qur’an, is the first house that was ever built on earth for the worshipof the One and Only God-lo Makkah, the birthplace of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), the city in which, and in whose vicinity, the Holy Prophetreceivcd the first and large part of the remaining revelations from On High.
          This annual pilgrimage, or “Hajj”, as it is called in the Arabic language, is one of the “Five Pillars,” one of the five fundamental religious duties to be performed by Muslims.
          Without going further into detail of the conditions to be fulfilled in order to be able to proceed on this pilgrimage, or of the rites and rituals to be observed in its course, let me describe in a few words the most striking and unforgettable sight that will present itself to your eye upon reaching the sacred territory.
          You will see a multitude of men, women and also children, close perhaps to 2 million, from every comer of the world, black and brown of complexion, yellow and white, Arabs and Iranians, Turks and Malays, Chinese and Americans, black and white Americans, blond and blue-eyed Europeans—in short to quote one of our great Germanic poets, Friedrich Schiller: “Who knows the nations, who the names of all who here together came?
           And there is still more that fills us with wonder: Whether black or brown, yellow or which, rich or poor, young or old, every male that our eye beholds is dressed alike, wearing two while seamless sheets of simple material, thus eliminating completely all marks and signs of distinction of dress between the African and American, the Asian, Australian and European, the mighty and wealthy and the poor and lowly. Here they have come, brother unto brother, sister unto sister, bearing witness to the brotherhood of mankind, to the equality of all human beings before their Creator, for it is to worship Him and to extol His glory that has brought them here. They have heard and heeded His call and their reply uttered, nay cried out by all and sundry, echoing and re-echoing from the surrounding mountains is:
           “Labbaik, Allahumma Labbaik"-Here I am O Allah, here am I, there is none who is thy partner, all praise and blessing belong to thee alone, for thou art the sovereign, and thou hast no partner.
           The pilgrimage to Makkah, the huge assembly of believers from all five continents, the gathering together of a multitude of worshippers of all races on the plain of Arafat is perhaps themost spectacular expression, symbol and proof of unity and brotherhood of m an as enunciated and upheld by the religion of Islam, and it is equally a symbol and proof of the equality of man before Allah, the Supreme Being , as taught by this religion.
           The concept and idea of the oneness of humanity is Islam’s unique contribution to human civilization, and it came as a natural sequel to its cardinal doctrine, the doctrine of “Tauhid,” or the unity of God.
           The doctrine, which runs through all teachings of the HolyBook, called “Al-Ikhlaas,” or Purity of Faith.”
                                                                                                                         "Say: He is God, the one and Only; God, the Eternal, Absolute; He begetteh not, nor is He begotten; And there is none like unto Him."
                                                                                                                                           (Holy Qur’an:! 12:1-4)
 (Read these verses and the verses following in conjunction with their commentary by A. Yusuf Ali)
          He Allah the One and Only, is the author of all existence; He is our Creator, to Him webelong and to Him is our return, And He is more than mere author and creator: He is also the “Rabb” of his creation and His creatures; and “Rabb” according to the great authority on the Holy Qur’ an. Imam Raghib, in Arabic it signifies “Thecherisher, sustainer and fosterer of a thing in such a manner after another until itreaches its goal of completion and perfection.”
 “Thus, Allah being the “Rabb ul-Alamin,” the “Rabb of the worlds,” as He is called in the opening chapter of the holy Qur’an and of all of us, whom He created.” No matter to which race,nation, tribe or parentage we may belong, for He created us all alike, as the Holy Qur’an further elucidates in numerous verses and words, such as:
                                                                                                                   "Andmankind is naught but a single nation."
                                                                                                                                     (Holy Qur’an 2:213)
          We are all the children of Adam, and Adam was made of dust. Here dawned the idea for the first time in human history that all men have a common origin, because we belong to Allah, all and sundry and to Whom is our ultimate return. The whole of humanity is but one family, one nation, and should, ideally, form one fraternity, the universal brotherhood of man.
          The differences of color and languages, of build and features are not regarded as differences of quality, or as marks or degrees of excellence, but as an expression of the diversity in nature”
 Says the Holy Qur’an:
 "And among His Signs is this that He created you from dust: And then, behold, ye are men scattered {far and wide)"
 "And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the variations and diversity of your tongues andyour color; verily in that are Signs for those who know."
                                                                                                                                     (Holy Qur’ an 30:22)
                                                                                                                Allama Yusuf Ali, commenting on this verse, remarks: “All mankind were
 I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991   |
 created of a single pair of parents; yet they had spread to different languages and different shades of complexions. They feel in the same way, and are equally underGod’s care”.
          Whatever the country in which a people lives, whatever the language they speak, whatever the color of their skin, they are recognized as one family, living under one roof—the canpoy of heaven, scattered, but of common origin:
 Says the Holy Qur’an:
          "O mankind! reverenceyour Guardian-Lord, who created you from a single person, created, of like nature, his male, and from them twain scattered (like seeds) countless men and women."               (Holy Qur’an 4:1)
          Among the measures introduced by the Holy Prophet of Islam to level the differences of rank and of race among his steadily grow ing community, perhaps prayer ought to be mentioned in particular. Five times a day the Muslims meet together for prayer. Among the first Muslims were members of the noblest Arab families as well as a good number of negro slaves. At prayers they all stood shoulder to shoulder before the Almighty, and when, in the further course of prayer, they prostrated before their Lord, it might well have been that the head of anoble Arab praying in a row behind a negro slave rested at the latter’s feet. In prayer and in the company of the Holy Prophet no differences of status was recognized between the two.
        Unity in Prayers
           From standing side by side in the rank of prayer, the next step was a mere corollary; they mingled freely on terms of perfect equality on all other occasions. Service to God was thus the door through which the fraternization of humanity was effected...The negro slaves and the noble Arabs were made to meet together on terms of equality in prayer and in religious gatherings. It was thus impressed on their minds, that they were all equal before God, and life once moulded on these lines led to the natural consequence that the negro slaves and the Arab nobility enjoyed equal status in society.
           In the first Muslim community a negro slave, Bilal, was chosen by the Holy Prophet himself to deliver the “Adhan”, the call to prayers, while theHoly Prophet himself was the “Imam” or the two office-bearers of the Mosque, the Holy Prophet himself, of noble blood and birth, was one, the other being Bilal, a negro.
                      Page 39 r_
          In his famous oration, Which he delivered on the occasion of his “Farewell Pilgrimage,” his last pilgrimage before he closed his eyes forever, the Holy Prophet reaffirmed and re-stated theprincipleof equality and brotherhood of man in Islam, thus bequeathing it as a sacred legacy to generation after generation of Muslims after him until thepresentday, Letmequote from the oration.
          “Ye people! Listen to my words, for I know not whether another year will be vouchsafed to me after this year to find myself amongst you at this place.”
          “Your lives and property are sacred and inviolable amongst one another until ye appear before the Lord....and remember, yet shall have to appear before your Lord Who shall demand from you an account of all your wives, and your wives have rights over you....remain always faithful to the trust reposed in you.”
          “Ye people, listen to my words and understand them, know ye that all Muslim are brothers unto one another, Ye are one brotherhood.”
 “All men are equal in Islam. The Arab has no superiority over the non-Arab, nor does the non-Arab have superiority over the Arab, save in the fear of God."
          The the Holy Prophet’s bequest was heeded and the example set by him was followed by subsequent generations of Muslims throughout the ages and history, it is impossible for me within limits of the lime allotted to me for this talk to render a detailed, much less a comprehensive, account of all such fact and incidents which afford proof of my assertion. I can only quote some of them, and I may be permitted to do so at random.
          One of the acid tests of unrestrained and unrestricted inter-racial relations are inter-racial marriages. That such marriages were never frowned upon by Muslims is borne out by the fact that Arasside as well as of later dynasties, had Turkish, Greek or even negro mothers.
          On the other hand, social rank or high office did not bestow upon the bearer special privileges before the law and certainly did not entitle him to ill-treat a brother Muslim with impunity.
          But perhaps one of the most instructive examples of the policy of Islam
 towards different races is furnished by Spain. Permit me to quote from Syed Amir Ali’s fundamental work “The Spirit of Islam”.
          Immediately on their arrival on the soil of Spain, the Muslims or Saracens published an edict assuring to the subject races, without any difference, the most ample liberty.
          Suevi, Goth, Vandal, Roman and Jew, were all placed on an equal footing. Their women were invited to intermarry with the conquerors...The fidelity of the Arabs in maintaining their promises, the equal-headed justice which they administered to all races and classes, without distinction of any kind, secured them the confidence of the people. ..the Jews profited most by the change of government”, and when many centuries later Spain was re-conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella, innumerable Jews left the country for Muslim lands, preferring a life in exile under Muslim rule to life in their home-country under the new rulers of whose racial and religious tolerance they were not convinced.
                                                                  Religious Tolerance
          And this is another aspect of the principle of the brotherhood of mankind as envisaged and enunciated by Islam: namely religious tolerance.
          There is one verse in the Holy Qur’an, however, which not only restates the common origin of man, explains the division of humanity into nations, or races, and tribes, tells us the object and purpose of this division was also the ultimate uni fication of humanity, but goes a step further: It points out to us the one and only criterion, the only standard by which man is judged by God, and thus by which we should also judge our fellow-men. As you will presently see, this criterion is not his color, nor his race, not even his skill and the degree of his intelligence. It is something which to achieve lies within reach of rich or poor, if only he made an effort to cultivate it within himself.
 Says the Holy Qur’an:
          "O mankind! We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each other, not that ye may despise each other, verily the most honored of you in the sight of God is (He who is) the most righteous of you. And God hasfull kno wledge and is well acquainted (with all things))
 I The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991   I
                                                                                                                                      (Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
          The principle of the brotherhood of man laid down here:, observes an author of an English translation of the Holy Qur’an, “is based on the broadest foundation. The address here is not to believers: but to men in general, who are told that they are all, as it were members of one family, and their divisions into races, nations, tribes and families should not lead to estrangements from, but to a better know ledge of each other. Superiority of one over another in this vast brotherhood does not depend on race, nationality, wealth or rank but on righteousness, on the careful observance of duty towards God and fellow-man, on moral greatness,” to which I may be permitted to add: and on the strength of one's “Iman", or faith in the one and only God because it is through faith and through submission unto the will of God alone through which we can attain to moral greatness.
          This verse of the Holy Qur’an is the answer of Islam to racism, an answer which, as far as the Muslim community is concerned, did notremain a pious exhortation but sounded the death knell of racial discrimination in the world of Islam as borne out not only by the example set by the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) but also by all Muslim nations and by the general attitude of the Muslims until the present day. I am inclined by personal experiences gathered during travels in almost all Muslim countries in the course of thelast 25 years, to insist that, in consequence of these teaching of Islam and their translation into practice by the Holy Prophet (PBUH) such a complete change was brought in the minds and hearts of all Muslims that is, that to them racial differences present no problems at all, nay, that they are largely almost totally unaware of, most certainly little disturbed or embarrassed by, such differences.
          There are instances galore in the life of the Holy Prophet Muhammad, (PBUH), which show us that, as is the case with regard to all injunctions of the Holy Qur’an, he was the perfect exemplar, the beautiful pattern of conduct also with regard to die application and actualization of the principle of the brotherhood of man in his own dealings with his followers as well as in his personal relations with adherents of other faiths. But we can only appreciate fully how formidable a task it was to establish this
 principle among his followers, if we look at the social conditions which prevailed in Arabia before the advent of the H oly Prophet. Let me, in order to illustrate this point, quote from a book of a non- Muslim author, namely from “The social Structure of Islam” by Reuben Levy: “The population of Arabia, outside of a few settled communities embedded in it, has throughout historical times been so constituted as to form a number of groups or tribes, very loosely held together either by loyalty to a particular leader or by the assumption of descent from a common ancestor, whether real or legendary. Within each of such groups or tribes, the independence of individual units—the tents or families—has always been taken as a matter of course and the head of each unit has been regarded as being in status the equal of every other. In the heads of the families lies the power to elect the “Shaykh” or tribal chief, of whom in theory no special qualification is required. In actual practice.however, there is normally a strong prejudice in favour of choosing the “Shaykh” from amongst the members of particular families. At the time of the rise of M uhammad such families held a position of great influence within the community, so that in any claim to authority the factor of birth was considered of paramount importance. Noble ancestry was the supreme test of nobility, and no person whose geneology was not entirely free of hereditary taint—for example, ancestors of servile or negro origin—could be regarded as conforming to the requisite standard. Such persons were relegated to the humbler rank of society and were thus compelled to undertake careers that inevitably marked them as inferior beings...In the same way the old nobility resisted the assumption of equality by other Arabs so the inhabitants of Arabia as a whole refused to consider foreigners as being their peers.” The Arabs regarded themselves as a superior race. And as for the negroes they did not recognize them except as slaves. It is to this situation to which the Holy Qur’ an refers in the following verse:
 "And holdfast all together, by theRope whichGod (stretches out for you) and be not divided among yourselves; and remember with gratitude God's favour onyou;forye were enemies, and He joined your hearts in love, so that by 11 is grace ye because brethren; and ye were on the brink of the pit of fire, andHesavedyoufrom it. Thus dothGod make His signs clear to you: That ye may be guided."
                                                                                                                                 (Holy Qur’an 3:103) The essence of the attitude of Islam
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 41
towards adherents of other faiths is to be found in the chapter which was granted to the Jews by the Holy Prophet after his arrival in Madina, and in the message which he sent to the Christians of the Najran, a town in Southern Arabia, then largely inhabited by Christians after Islam had fully established itself in the Arab Peninsula.
“ In the name of most Merciful and Compassionate God,” says this first chapter of freedom of conscience, “Given by Muhammad, the Holy Prophet, to the believers, whether of the Qureish or of Yathrib” as Madina was then called—and to all individuals, of whatever origin who have made common cause with them: All these shall constitute one nation...The Jews who
attach themselves to our common wealth shall be protected from all insults and vexations: They shall have an equal right with our people to our assistance and good offices. The Jews of the various branches— (and here follows the names of the various Jewish tribes of Madina and the surrounding territories)—and all others domiciled in Yathrib, shall form with the Muslims one composite nation; they shall practise their religion as freely as the Muslims; the clients— meaning the protected, and the allies of the Jews shall enjoy the same security and freedom.” This was a paraphrase of the Charter granted by the Holy Prophet to the Jews after he had arrived in Yathrib, a town which because of him became known as Madinat-un-Nabi—the city of the Holy Prophet, or in short, Madina, while the message to the Christians of Najran, sent to them almost at the end of the Holy Prophet’s mission, runs as follows:
           “To the Christians of Najran and the neighboring territories the security of God and the pledge of his Prophet are extended for their lives, their religion and their property—to the present as well as the absent and others besides; there shall be no interference with the practice of their faith or their observances; nor any change in then-rights or privileges; no bishop shall be removed from his bishopric; nor any monk from his priesthood, and they shall continue to enjoy everything great and small as heretofore; no image or cross shall be destroyed they shall not practice the rights of blood vengeance as in the days of ignorance— (the era before the advent of Islam); no tithes shall be levied from them nor shall they be required to furnish provisions for the troops."
          If there been instances of religious intolerance in the history of the Muslim nations, these instances—and that should be very clearly understood —did not happen because of Islam but inspite of Islam and they only betray lack of knowledge of the teachings of Islam, and of understanding of the spirit and principles of that region.
                 Equality in Action
          I certainly cannot and shall not claim that the idea of racial equality and of human brotherhood is the invention of Islam and has only been proclaimed by thatreligion and by nobody else. But I claim and insist that only in and through Islam has this idea ever been realized in action over centuries and among the most different and dissimilar nations and races.
          Inspite of the lofty ideals of
 Enlightenment and of the French Revolution the West did not and has still not solved the racial problem, not has the West been able until today to establish racial equality everywhere in its hemisphere. It is barely thirty years ago that racism was raised to the position of state philosophy—themostbrutal and barbaric racism that can be imagined the one I referred to the very beginning of my talk, was crushed in my own country. Racism in the shape of “Apartheid” is still allowed to raise its ugly head in South Africa, and racism has certainly not been eradicated in the United States inspite of the abolition of slavery that took place some time ago and inspite of legislation introduced after the Second World War, aiming at the levelling of differences among the various racial groups and at the doing away with racial discrimination. In the Socialist world, Marxism Leninism of Communism has introduced its own brand and type of racism— namely what I may be permitted to call “Ideological Racism” which is as hateful and abhorrent as biological racism. So wherever we look we find that neither the ideals of age of Enlightenment nor of the French Revolution, nor the UN Charter of Human Rights, the latest exercise in bringing about racial equality and in abolishing racial discrimination, has been able to achieve its goal, while Islam has most certainly done so.
               The Success of Islam
          Why, then has Islam succeeded where other systems and ideologies seem to have failed? What is the secret of its success, and in what way can be solution of the racial problem under which millions and millions of our fellow human-beings are still reeling?
          In my humble opinion Islam has succeeded where other systems and ideologies have failed because of two decisive factors: namely the universality of its teachings and the divine sanction on which the Islamic concept of the brotherhood of mankind is based.
          A Muslim believes that Islam is not only the last of the world’s great religions but also an all-inclusive religions which went before it. It is one of its most striking characteristics that it requires its followers to believe that all great religions of the world that preceded it have been revealed by God, and it is a fundamental principle of Islam that a Muslim must also believe in all prophets who were raised up before the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH). Prophets, according
 to the express teachings of the Holy Qur’an were sent by God to all nations: Says the Qur’an:
          "And there is not a nation but a warner has gone among them”.
                                                                                                                                        (Holy Qur’an 13:7)
          But whereas all previous prophets were sent with specific missions to theirown people only the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) was sent to all nations of the earth, as the Holy Qur’an reaches us:
          "O mankind! I am the Apostle that hath come to you in truth from God"
                                                                                                                                       (Holy Qur’ an 4:170)
          “There is no question now,” Says Allama Yusuf Ali in his commentary to this chosen verse, of race or nation, of a 'chosen people ’ or' the seed of Abraham ’ or the' seed of David: ’ or of Hindu Ary a-Varta, of Jew or Gentile, Arab or Ajam, Turk or Tajik, European or Asiatic, White or Colored; Aryan, Semitic, Mongolian, or African; or American, Australian or Polynesian,” The Holy Prophet Muhammad upon whom be peace and the blessings of God, was sent to them all—and that distinguishes him from all other prophets, and that also distinguishes Islam from all other religions.The message that was revealed to the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) from On High was a message addressed to all nations on the earth, and the principles set forth in that message applied universally to the whole prophets, and Islam, based on the revelation which the Holy Prophet received, is the final and perfect expression of the Divine Will. Says the Qur’an:
          "This day have I perfected your religion for you, completed My favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion."
                                                                                                                                          (Holy Qur’an 5:4)
          It is the self-same God, the Supreme Being, the Ultimate Cause, the One and Only, our Lord and Creator Who has also spoken to us, through the mouth of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH), the words which I have already quoted earlier and which I
 I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991     ■
 should like to call back into our memory:
           "And mankind is naught but a single
 nation."
                                                                                                                                       (Holy Qur’an 2:213)
           “Verily, O mankind, We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female and make you into nations and tribes that ye may know each other, (not that ye despise each other). Verily the most honored of you in the sight of God is He Who is the most righteous (and God-fearing, dutifid)ofyou."
                                                                                                                                       (Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
           Equality and fraternity, as well as liberty, according to the teachings of Islam, are religious commands, and only where they are conceived as such can these lofty ideals become reality.
           There is no road to the unification of humanity, no road to a brotherhood of man which knows no boundaries of color, race, country, language and rank except through God, the Creator and “Rabb” of all that is in the heavens and on earth. Without absolute and unreserved faith in Him, and in the truth and universality of His revelation— without the will to serve Him, which is the purpose of our creation and to follow His commandments and guidance this goal can never be achieved as history tells us.
                           42
 established absolute values by which we can assess our conduct and our fellow human beings.
           "Verily the most honored of you in the sight ofGod.O men isHewhoisthemostrighteous, the most Godfearing, of you."
                                                                                                                                           (Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
           This is the yardstick by which in Islam man is measured, and not by his race, cast, or rank. Peace and mutual trust among individuals and nations alike can only be brought about on the recognition of, and strict adherence to the absolute values. Materialism, humanity's ideal in modem times, lacks all prerequisites because its value concepts change from time to time and from place to place. Islam is the only force which provides man with the spiritual and moral foundation on which lasting peace and mutual trust and respect among the nation of the world can be built. Islam is, first and foremost, an international religion, and it is by the grand international ideal of Islam, the ideal of the equality of all races and of the unity of the human kind, an ideal founded on the belief in the Oneness of God, that the curse of racism and narrow minded nationalism, which have been and still troubles the ancient and the modem world, can be swept away.
           (This is a paper read at the International Islamic Conference in London by brother Mohammad Am an Hobohm, who is presently serving as diplomat in the West
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 43
BWmanSociologv \
THE UNBROKEN CHAIN
        Sociologists, political analysts, environmentalists and other contemporary thinkers have finally come to realize unitedly that man was a latecomer in the cosmos. Ironically this fact
 though novel to a newly liberated consciousness of a true scientific researcher, is but as old as man himself if one ventures to follow the mode of constitency by which all heavenly revelations assert this old truth. The point is that nature is independent of both human existence and his limited awareness. The universe which had existed millions of years before mankind appeared, could as well do so for even a longer period without him.
         This is perfectly an Islamic fundamental message. It makes the study of human cultural evolution more fascinating and likewise exposes the false arrogation of omnipotence that characterizes the oppressive cult of imperialism through-out ages. It also tells the intoxicated mind of the so-called modem man in the bluntest of all
languages, that his essentiality falls on nothingness at worst and strikes the cord of infinitesimality at best. However, between these two polar zones lies his obvious infirmity before natural laws and cosmic principles that rule our universe.
        Similarly, it offers acceptable explanations for the common phenomenon of communal variations between groups of a particular human generation as well as solving the riddle of apparent differences between the same
society over an extended period of time. By this, every revolutionary development becomes intelligible, equality of men appears comprehensible and the common destiny of humanity as a unique single race could now be better considered under more illuminating sociological principles.
         From here, one finds that the progress of human civilization cannot but be an unbroken chain of a unit global socio-political development. The motivations that bring about changes in any community or in an international garthering of purported sovereign states are as natural as the consequential results of such upheavals. No culture could claim absolute originality so much as modem experimental science can be taken as refined reflections of all human experiences since his arrival on this planet.
         Global civilization would therefore form a parabolic structure if a Y-space graph is ploted against an x-time. The curve, indeed becomes part of a long wave length which if followed is seen to be rising at a point and falling at another but yet moves forward as a result of these fluctuating developments. The
 advent of a world power and the exit of another global force does not represent any contradictions nor is it to be taken as a break in the cultural evolutionary process. In fact it is the most cogent evidence of a progressive continuation of the common human civilization.
         Under these circumstances of intrinsic continuation, sporadic oscillations and unbroken chain of consistency, no nation could lead the
 world except it utilizes those basic innate spiritual characteristics and possesses such socio-political understandings that make it an undisputed cultural-model for others to follow.
          It is extremely difficult if not totally impossible to find a collection of local customs assuming the propensity of a global culture for a long time beside the fact that such traditions are the most logical as well as pragmatic in solving contemporary and unescapable sociopolitical and sprituo-economic crises. It would therefore be the first among apparently equal traditions but of course the most natural among others of its own kind in advancing the wheel of human intellectual and revolutionary developments.
          As an illustration, we can cite the advent of the British in this part of the world and we mean the so-called Third World. The preponderance of Anglo-Saxon civilization today is no accident nor a resultant concomitant of
 ® The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991 I historical chance, if there is ever anything to be called as such. Before the rise of European powers and lately prior to American supremacy today, human developments were at the lowest possible velocity for the modem world. This was unfortunate in view of the unlimited but then unexplored and misused potentiality of the human race.
                                                                                                 There was no doubt even in the minds of the most cynical critics that
 those pre-Renasisance empires in Europe and tribal enclaves in Africa, Latin America and Asia, were a confluence of oppressive banality, ego-centricism, chaos, uncongenial superstitions and outright superfluous scholasticism.... Though there were some brilliant flashes of hope, sanity and progress here and there, but these were exceptions not the general rule. Their defeat therefore before an emblossoming and more scientific Anglo-Saxon understanding of life was too natural not to be expected, if one grasps how the most Gracious Creator deals with his slaves. But such dramatic rebellion against dogmatism by combined revolutionary forces of logic and pragmatism compelled human civilization to change its downward trend and to rise again in the eternal march towards perfection. The chain remains unbroken but the speed and direction have sincebecn altered.
       . Today too, Western technological advancement though excellent in itself is loosing its old brilliant luster
 of positive contribution to human civilization. European and American capitals are no more centers of freedom fighters or “libertarians” but have unfortunately been converted to notorious Zionist cells for economic colonialism, military imperialism and diplomatic terrorism. The West therefore has crossed the line of no-retums in its journey which has moral, spiritual, ecological and socio-political destructive backlash on human cultural advancement.
          Sophisticated machinery though highly essential is not all that makes a better global comm uni ty. What exactly forms the core of global human development is the rule of sanity, justice and liberty, which the so-called modem democratic diplomacy of the West only pays a lip-service to. The doublestandards of our self-appointed champions of human rights are too numerous to count. This is why human progress would have to be reactivated. A new and redefined Islamic civilization should come to the rescue in view of the above stated observations.
          The revived understanding of cosmic principles, manifesting themselves in already known and yet to be understood natural laws could be utilized in forwarding a real comprehensive and non-multiple standard of a socio-political and scientific culture. This is the only plausible alternative. The next line of progress must be a move towards absolute freedom, elimination of oppression and establishment as well as preservation of a productive global peace...
          These are lofty goals, though still very far away, but are the basic motivating inertia behind socio-political revolutions that make the chain of human civilization unbroken as much as they perpetually drive its wheels in motion. It is the sole force that permanently dissolves the illusive and apparent contradiction between creation and revelation, exoteric ism and esotericism, as well as between physical nature and spiritual scripture. This is what we call a
 revived understanding of Islam as a way of life or more properly as a global civilization which does not necessarily mean a so-called conservative, dogmatic and traditional Muslim domination.
         The revolutionary struggle for the establishment of the original Islam in its true manifestations is therefore not a question of choice but that of a must. Hence the only acceptable accomplishment cannot be anything less than a total and undisputable victory. This final realization, where and whenever, it occurs would never be a point of departure since human historical process will jealously retain its long and integrated line of socio-political, intellectual and military continuation of its evolutionary advancement. The question therefore would be the false impression of acute differences, constradictions and chances, which could be created here or there. But in the final analysis however, one finds that there is nothing as such since everything eventually falls into its deserving natural positions in the unbroken chain of human civilization.
         The fall of feudalism, the rise of monarchy, the near total disappearance of the latter in face of aggressive constitutional republicanism and the likely evolution of ultra-national states from the debris of inefective or incompetent regional organizations such as WARSAW, OAU, EEC, ECOWAS, GCO, OIC, NATO e.t.c are some
                                                                                                     The Mujahideen, July/ / August, 1991 i indications of this historical continuum.
         To be realistic is to accept that going back on the abandoned norms and customs is not entirely impossible but only, extremely difficult via the same route. It is easier through a round-about return trip. The old oppressive shackles of political monopoly, social-manipulation and economic exploitation by a clique over the generality which brought the rise of modem nations and
 the disintegration of ancient empires are still the same major revolutionary factors in understanding global instability today.
          The same reasons were responsible for international ontcry against slavery, apartheid, fascism, Nazism and Communism. These various ideologies ran into trouble global wise, because they declared open battles against logic, freedom and other natural
                                                                                             Page 45 ■■■■■
 dispositions in man. Their exit was therefore as natural as their advents. Unfortunately Western democracy too has been hijacked by capitalist monopolies and Zionist hawks. Though the former started well, but today, the old oppression that led to bloody revolutionary struggles in Europe and America has eaten deep into the edifice of our so-called modem civilization based in the West.
         One may for ever be wondering why human historical development and the necessary progressive continuation of global civilization seem to be practically less expressive except through revolutionary struggles. Art, science, literature, technology, architecture, political theories, administrative systems, economic principles and of course military theses are nevertheless the chariot carriers of new ideological thoughts that come to replace old ones. No practicable doctrinal movement which is out in correcting existing anomalies in the society except it essentially manifests itself and hence assumes a position of superiority by living to expectation in all human endeavors, not just in tools and weaponry.
         We must however, take cognizance of these major facts.
 One: Various socio-political upheavals and religio-cultural changes in different places and generations would always combine to form an advanced version of
 human civilization better than its predecessors.
 Two: In the local or international struggle between different political systems and social traditions, the final champion would be that one that has the highest merit or in other words, the new ideology will surely be such that has benefited most from the success and failures of former leading civilizations.
 Three: At any point in human cultural evolution, unavoidable socio-political and spiritual circumstances would
 I The Mujahideen, July! / August, 1991 \
 communal upheavals. These in turn would bring forth new societies thereby forcing human civilization to go further.
          What we have said so far does not mean in the least that the historical stage would for ever be dominated by revolutionaries without the barons of oppression challenging them. The contrary is intended here. Greed, lust and outright wickedness, would of course create their philosophies, build their armies and employ the services of heartless, academic propagandists and irresponsible press manipulators to form their imaginary world of eternity.
 ....But the simple naturalinstinctin man that knows nothing but truth, freedom and justice would as a result of those oppressive social forces, rise upfrom the graveyard of denial and exploitation ,to destroy the fabulous glass-castte of imperialism. It is at this juncture that a new historical page is opened in human socio-political, spirituo-economic and academic developments ....and by that humanity as a unit race has a life pattern that is strictly progressive and perpetual...
 always create room for improvements. This apparent imperfection in any existing civilization becomes the railing point of revolutionaries. Hence every age would always produce its vanguards of fundamental changes.
          If the above points are well understood, it will be easier to predict where else we could expect the next social upheavals or why should there be one here and not there. A revolutionary table could be formed where-in oppression manifesting itself in religious dogmatism, political monopoly, social injustice and economic exploitation would be seen as the reasons for bloody
         But the simple natural instinct in man that knows nothing but truth, freedom and justice would as a result of those oppressive social forces, rise up from the graveyard of denial and exploitation to destroy the fabulous glass-castle of imperialism. It is at this j uncture that a new historical page is opened in human socio-political, spirituo-economic and academic developments in the temporal positive or negative versions. Then the whole process starts all over again and by that humanity as a unit race has a life pattern that is strictly progressive and perpetual.
         It may sound paradoxical that
                    Page 46
 in the world, colonialists and imperialists would naturally have their ways so as to create a revolutionary movement that would perform the triple task of destroying old oppression, advancing global cultural evolution and preparing the way for history to repeat itself.
         In the bounded zones of places and extensive but well defined world of volumes, oppression can rule for decades if not centuries. Few men could usurp the rights of nations if not the entire human race for some time. This is possible through systematic as well as sophisticated jahiliyyah and mischief mongering on earth. We must however, not forget that this is a relative evil of space-limitation serving devotedly the permanence of a boundless time-goodness.
         Without the tide of criminality once in any community, the necessity of strict maintenance of law and orders would never become imperative or appreciated. It is the evil deeds of callous emperors, despotic presidents and exploitative systems that make the struggle for justice and liberty more deserving. No matter what today presents, what is in the morrow is far more important. Don ’ t be surprised then if oppression controls the world as at now, it is equally an opportunity for faith, sanity, progress and peace to collect their forces together and extend the unbroken chain of human advancement.
         This is the working structure of human sociological development since the first man appeared on this planet and since man first thought about himself as a member of a larger community. There will never be any fundamental changes in the natural order of things or in human developmental procedures. America or no America, imperialism or Fascism, the defeat of Nazism or the breakdown of communism, if Muslim activists reschedule their programmes to be more natural and hence perfectly Islamic, then the Muslims would play the next role of turning a new page in human sociological progress. ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ * **
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
                                                                                                       \Page 47
THROUGH THE AGES
__________Vi___1_
1
m
AL-QUDS
AL-SHARIF
                                                                                                                            M Faqir Ahmad
          Historically, Al-Quds has been the first Qibla of Muslims and a religious centre of Christians. This city is older than its recorded history of 2000 years. This region has been ravaged for several times. Many rulers have come and gone. This city has seen different religions alternatively. Once this city was named after Hazrat Dawood, called Jerusalem. Jerusalem means’ place of peace’ In 970 B.C., when Hazrat Suleman was alive, there was built a place of worship called ‘structure of Suleman’. Al-Quds, built on the mountain Sehon, with a hight of 2800 ft from the sea level. It is 100 kilometre far from Ghaza and Tel Avivc. In 70 A.D. it was captured by Jews who destroyed its place of worship. Later on even its name was changed. Then came the Christians. They captured the city and built their Churches. The next was the emperor of Iran who defeated the Christians and ruled there for fourteen years. He too was defeated by Shah Haroqul.
          In the times of Muslims Hazrat Umar Farooq took this great city under an agreement. The Christians were allowed to worship there. They were forbidden from building new churches. The Christians would come from all over the world and wordhip. Then the Christians started spying. The Muslim rulers reacted by imposing some restrictions on the activities of Christians. They were not ready to accept the restrictions. The priests instigated the Christians against the Muslims which culminated into the wars of crusade. In 490 A.D., on the declaration of war by Lhe pope, hundreds of thousand of the Christians attacked Al-Quds. After a
 seige of forty days and the killings of 60,000 they succeeded in capturing the city. The bigotted priests had poisoned their minds about Muslims. They thought the Muslims as the usurpers in the city which, they claimed was the worship place of the Christ only. The Muslims were very perturbed by the events but the weak rulers of Bughdad could not help them. The Christians succeeded in capturing the whole of Syria and Palestine in a very short time.
          Allah Almighty sent Nooruddeen Zangi for the help of Muslims who retook many captured areas from Christians. They became frightened to the extent that they asked Europe for help. The help came from France and Germany but most of their army was destroyed by Nooruddeen Zangi. After his death came Sulahuddcen Ayubi who captured most of the lost areas. The Christians were driven from all the areas to Al-Quds. Al-Quds too was recovered after a protracted struggle of 91 years. This shook the whole Christians world. They were allowed to make pilgrimage to Al-Quds for several times. The Christians tried to retake it but to no avail. The crusades ended after a span of 100 years. There came a time when Tatars of Khwarzm killed, plundered and looted in Jerusalem.
          For 300 years the Egyptians and the Uthmanis ruled the city. Ibrahim Pasha was the next in line to succeed thcm.But only after 10 years he too was defeated by Uthmanis. By that time in the whole of Palestine the number of the Jews was 8000.
          After that, in the recent past started the great conspiracy between the English and the Jews. Britain and America brought the Jews from all over the world to Palestine and established
 the Jewish rule. They halved not only Palestine but also Jerusalem. TheUnited Nations had called the Jerusalem an international area but the Jews attacked it on may 15,1948. The Muslims resisted but the Jews succeeded in grabbing it. The call of Azan was silenced after eight centuries in Al-Quds-Sharif.The tragedy of Al-Quds which is the land of one lakh messengers of Allah (SwT) is the greatest. The relation of the Muslims with A1 -Quds is very old. It was our first Qibla till 15 Sha,aban 2 Hijra when Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) was offering his Zuhur prayers, Allah (SwT) commanded him to turn his face from Baitul Muqaddas to Ka.abatullah. Al-Quds Al-Sharif is the Lhird sacred city of Muslims after Makkah Mu,azzama and Madina Munawwara..
  continued from Page 27
     Palestine • • •
 the Muslim people and governments to support the cause of Intifadha wholeheartedly. The plans for new settlements in theoccupied land mustbe stopped at all cost. Any negligence on the part of M uslim at this moment would cost them heavily. The call of the hour is a united support for Palestinian brethem. The Muslims cannot afford to waste their lime and energies in their own quarrels. Muslims are not weak but unfortunately they easily fall ^rey to the enemy conspiracies and start their infightings. Now this must be changed. Let us help our Palestinian brethem. let there be an echo of Allaho Akbar in Masjidi Aqsa. let us take on the Israeli grabbers of the Palestinian land. Insha, Allah Intifadha shall be victorious and the zionist ev il shall be doomed to failure.


/---                                        
              The Mujahideen                
Chief Editor:      S. Alamuddin Atheer      
Acting Editor:       Israrullah Khan        
Composed & Designed by: A. Latif Stanikzai  
^_                                      J)> 

                                           Subscription rates Pakistan: Rs. 100 per anum All other countries: US $ 25 per anum
                                                 Correspondence Address:
                                               The Mujahideen P.O. Box 710 University Town Peshawar, Pakistan




