         And why should you not fight in the cause of Allah and for the rescue of the weak men. women and children-who say.‘Our Lord, take us out of this town whose people are oppressors, and give us a friend from T hyself and give us from Thyself a helper.’
                 AL-NISA 76
The
MUJAHIDEEN
                                                          Monthly
Vol.I-ll                        2nd year 
Editor-in-Chief : Abdul Qadeer Karyab    
Editor:           Sur Gut Speen          
Founder :         Hezb-i-lslami          
                  Afyhanistan            
Address :         The Mujahideen Monthly 
                  G.P.O. BOX 255         
                  Peshawar, Pakistan     
Subscription •    Afghanistan            
■See page 4o)                            
Monthly           Afs. 50.00             
Annual            Afs. 500.00            
                  STUDENTS:              
Monthly :         Afs 20.00              
Annual:           Afs. 200.00            
                  PAKISTAN :             
Monthly.          Rs. 5.00               
Annual:           Rs. 50.00              
                  STUDENTS:              
Monthly :         Rs. 4.00               
Annual:           Rs. 40.00              
                  FOREIGN :              
Monthly :         US$ 1.00               
Six Months:       US$5.50                
Annual:           US$11.00               
Jan-Feb 1987             VI-VII 1407
CONTENTS
   Editorial
 1. The Timetable........................5
 2. Our stand on war and peace
   in Afghanistan........................6
 3. The loss and reinforcement of
   Red Army ............................13
 4. The Barikot battle...................16
 5. Change in Soviet manoeuvre .........19
 6. “Not a single refugee has returned”. . . .20
 7. SU-25 background....................23
 8. Russians’ second biggest base
   set-ablaze...........................28
The Mujahideen Mon thly
3
Jan - Feb 1987
 9. Message of an ex-officer of Red Army to the Ru'ssian armed forces in Afghanistan........................29
10. Brigadier killed.......................31
11. Kremlin new tactics,  old policy. ..... .32
1 2. Major Cosanov stabbed to  death.......34
13. “Soviet can only destroy
    not control”...........................35
14. World-wide support to seven Afghan
    resistance parties................. 38
1 5. A testimony of a defectee of
    the Kabul Army......................39
16. Soviet convoy attacked...........  .40
1 7. War wages between Soviet
Afghan troops.........................  40
18. News................................42
19. Shaheeds ...........................44
                  From:      The Mujahideen'Monthly
You can get our Magazine from the Representatives of the Afghan Mujahideen
 Dr. M. Ashraf Amanyar 10 PRIORY ROAD LONDON NW6 -UK
 Tel: 01 625 4200
Afghan Information Bureau
36-24-2 F
Union Street Flushing New York 11354. U.S.A.
  Najiullah Afghani Al-Sabahia P.O. Box 38139 Kuwait
  Tel: 449051 - 3903968
Fazulurahman P.O. Box 10238 Madina, Saudi Arabia Tel: 825334 5
Mohammad Zahir Afghani P.O. Box 3245 Makkah, Saudi Arabia Tel: 5734732
Haji Mangul Hussain
Regional Office of
Afghan Mujahideen
for Southeast Asia
No. 902/4 Jalan Tun Ismail
Kulal Lumpor
Malaysia
Tel: 2917962-43
M. Amin Karim
1 rue des Ormes 67200
Strsbourg
France
Tel: 88290315
Eng. Mir Azam Afghani P.O. Box 15271 Al-Ain U.E.A.
Tel: 655745
Ghairat Baheer P.O. Box 1848 Canberra 2601 Australia Tel: 473051
Karim Muhajerzad Information Buro dar Afghanische Mujahideen Theater Street 12 53 Bonn 1,
West Germany Tel: 22304 - 650223
M. Halim Tanweer Informatie Bureau van Afghaanse Mujahideen Postbus 1492 8001 B1 Zwalle, Holland Tel: 543759
 Qabil Siddiqi 3rd Floor, Flat 59 New Golden Market P.O. Box. 7538 Dabi, U.E.A.
 Tel: 283136
The Mujahideen Monthly
4
Jan — Feb 1987
 EDITORIAL
                              THE TIMETABLE
     From the very beginning the Soviet military action in A fghanistan was condmned universally. It was branded as inhuman, brutal, and complete violation of the United Nations charter. Non-Aligned Movement also condmned it because it had robbed away the freedom of its member country.
     The Kremlin was urged to call back the troops and respect the right of self-determination, territorial integrity, and freedom, of Afghanistan. There was no justification for Russia to station its troops on the soil of a foreign country. But all went unheeded.
     Yet in spite of seven years of genocide and devastation of Afghans and their country the Russians have failed to defeat the Islamic resistance. They have also failed to strengthen their claws and stabilize their puppet regime in Kabul.
     Now the Russaisn have resorted to a new tactic which will make their stay possible in a diplomatic way and deprive the Mujahideen and their families (refugees) of humanitarian help of the free world such as food and shelter. The Kremlin leaders think that they will be able to get rid of the Islamic resistance and reach their goal through diplomatic intrigues.
     Pullout timetable from the Kremlin point of view if agreed upon, will taper off the momentum of resistance and provide the Soviet a chance to make the best use of the time-gap by sending back demoralized troops and bringing in fresh ones to settle things in Afghanistan according to their entire satisfaction. And the Russians are so swift in this task, as experienced by the Mujahideen, that they can land their troops within 30 hours by land and five to six hours by air.
     For instance, it took their fresh troops only few hours to reach northern Afghanistan to battle against the Mujahideen. In Herat, it is always the same that usually half of the Russian troops are sent fresh from Takhta Bazar military, base across the border. In 1986 one commando brigade was sent to Paktia to take part in the Khost offensive and it did not take them more than six hours to land by air.
     Now the distant bases exist in the Qandahar province, 290 miles south-west front Kabul, capital of Afghanistan. Qandahar via Herat on highway is around 400 miles and via Kabul is about 600 miles away from the Soviet border. It took the Russians a few hours to reach Afghanistan by air and a day or two by land. In the light of all this it is baffling as to why Mr. Diego Cordovez, UN representative, is trying to convince Pakistan, Iran, and China that the Russians should be given time in terms of months and years.
     If we estimate the speed of a tank 20 miles per hour it will take them about 20 hours via Herat and 30 hours via Kabul Salang to cross the Afghan-Soviet border. As for the airforce they have no problem as they can return within six hours. To be sure, the Mujahideen will leave all roads open leading to the Soviet Union, provided the Russians genuinely interested in leaving Afghanistan.
     Obviously, the time factor has no bearing on the Soviet pullout. Their real motive is to strengthen their puppet regime during the period which they asked for. Or to their con-vinence they may install another puppet regime during that period.
     We believe there will be no letup in the genocide ana the savage instinct of the Soviets will continue to have its untrammelled play in Afghanistan. We do hope that Pakistan, Iran and China fully understand the Kremlin strategy.
     And if the UN representative, Mr. Cordovez, accedes to the Soviet demand, the Afghan nation will count the UN role as (a) legitimizing the Soviet atrocities in the past seven years, (b) the Russians will be officially allowed by the UN to stay for the continuation of their brutalities in Afghanistan.                _________________________________
 The Mujahideen Monthly
                                                                                                     Jan - Feb 1987
        OUR STAND ON WAR AND
             PEACE IN AFGHANISTAN
                       —
  The following is the text of Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar's speech delivered on 8th January, 1986 at a huge conference held at Warsak Camp, which was attended by refugees, great scholars, Ulema, commanders, Mujahideen, students, representatives of refugees' camp throughout Pakistan and great A_____________
number of Ansar.
     At the conference Eng. Hekmatyar announced Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan's stand about the solution of the Afghan crisis, as well as, the recent satanic manoeuvre of Russians and their puppets under the name of reconciliation and cease-fire.
                                     IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE BENEFICIENT, THE MERCIFUL.
       Therefore, do not be faint-hearted, and do not beg for peace, for you and will surely gain the upper hand.
                                                                                                       (Mohammad 35)
                                        Brothers, Mujahideen, Muhajireen and dear compatriots!
  Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah We Barakatuhu!
       Eversince the blight of Communism has struck the land of Afghanistan — 104 months — our nation has not sighed relief even for a moment.              ,
       Communism is ominous of blood and fire. Communism is synonymous of death and destruction. The red flag of Communism-symbol' of insolence and jingoism — has heralded bloodshed and destruction since its unfurling in Afghanistan.
                                                                             In the course of past eight years and eight months one man has been martyred after every four minutes. After every 54 seconds one man has been forced to leave the country. And every twelve minutes one
 man has been put behind the bars and persecuted.
      The whole of our green and beautiful country has been ruined and stained with the blood of our martyrs.
      There is no village which is not witness to destruction. There is no family which is not devoid of any widows, orphans and wounds or which has not been affacted in one way or the other in this protracted war imposed on us unvoluntarily.
      Those who talk about the Red revolution, those who talk about the eradication of class system and restoration of the rights of peasants and workers, when took the reins of power in collusion with the Russian forces, turned the huts of the peasants and workers into their graves, their villages cemeteries and their tattered clothes shrouds of their bodies. The same people offered bombs instead of food to farmers and workers.
      In fact the Soviet expansionism exposed our country to untold miseries and calamities. With a view to foisting the toadies of Khalq and Parcham on us, the Russians tried to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. And when our people rejected it and took up arms against them, the Russians invaded Afghanistan and triggered off this protracted war in our country. This is an open
The Mujahideen Monthly
6
Jan - Feb 1987
                                                                                     secret that the war has been imposed on us.
      The Russian agression and their military presence in Afghanistan gave birth to the war which is still continuing. As long as there are Russians, nothing can stop our struggle for liberation. The presence of Russian forces in our country is an unsheathed sword dangling over the heads of our people and threatening their lives, usurping their independence and making them to resort to war for safeguarding the Muslim values.
      Just and just the withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghanistan can stop the bloodshed and devastation. The day the Russian forces withdraw, peace and security will return to our country very quickly. Our patriot and freedom loving people who have, never, in the course of history, capitulated to the alien forces in their country, consider the presence of the Russian forces in Afghanistan equivalent to the continuation of war on their part even if the barrels of their guns are grounded and white flags of ceasefire are raised over their bases and camps.
      If the Russians and their stooges really want a solution of the Afghan problem, cessation of bloodshed, and peace to the region, they should leave our country unconditionally and immediately without making any lame excuses. They should let our people determine their destiny precluding all avenues of extraneous pressures and influences.
                                                                                          The key to the solution of the Afghan
                                                                                    problem and the cessation of the war and
                                                                                    hostilities is with the Russians. If they choose
                                                                                     to avoid installing their puppet regime and
                                                                                     withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, none
                                                                                    can stop them. What hurdles the Russians
                                                                                     face in the pullout? Is it not possible for the
                                                                                     Russians to withdraw the rest of their forces
                                                                                     the way they pulled out their six regiments
                                                                                    precluding any conditions? The Russians
                                                                                     did not consult anybody on it, nor did they
 ask anyone to open the borders of Afghanistan for them.
                                                                                     it visible or invisible interference from the West, as the Russians claim, made them
 invade Afghanistan, then we should lament their prudence that instead of taking any counter-measures against the West, they deemed it fit to step into Afghanistan—a step which drew worldwide condemnation and which is a stigma on the face of Russian imperialism.
      In the course of this brutal military intervention, they committed heinous and unpardonable crimes which history will never forget.
      But the West keeps you stuck up in Afghanistan and does not allow you to get out?
      Most surprising is Najib's address to our nation: "Let's put out the flames of war, and forget the past. War is fust burning in fire and war is just hell and hell is the abode of sinners. God Has cursed war. We propose peace and reconciliation. Of workers tell me what has the war brought onto you? Fathers, mothers, children, mountains and valleys! Tell me if you need war? We want peace."
      / say to Najib: All those people curse the war-mongering aggressors. Everybody wants peace and everone is willing that peace should return to his country. But what other choice can they have for the restoration of peace other than reistance against the usurpers?
 Najib, tell me!
      What can else workers, peasants, traders, Ulema and other sections of the people do in putting out the flames of war lit by the Russian invaders, other then armed struggle against the atheist invaders?
      Do you think the orphans whose fathers have been martyred by the Russians, the widows whose husbands have been lost in the wake of Russian invasion, and the old fathers and mothers whose sons have been buried by the Red Army, will forgive the Russians?
      The workers and peasants whose huts have been blotted out, strafed and shelled by the Russian forces and their country has
The Mujahideen Monthly
7
Jan - Feb 1987
 turned out as a horrendous ruin have no other alternative but to show their wrath and indignation by resisting the invaders. Aided by the available weapons they will continue to struggle till the agressors review their stand on the genocidal war and withdraw their forces from our country and put out the flames of this war imposed on us.
      We people cannot be hoodwinked by hypocritic offers of ceasefire and reconciliation. Ceasefire with whom? Ceasfire with those who are responsible for the unprecedented pogrom in the world history and ceasefire with those who have ravaged a whole country and still slyly trying to perpetuate their rule by these so-called peaceful means?
      Najib! If you are willing to announce a ceasefire with the freedom fighters, why do you not tell the invaders who have deprived us all of our independence which has been a valuable asset to our people for centuries, to vacate our country? Why does your conscience not prick on the slaughter of your people at the instigation of a foreign imperialist power? At least your human feelings should be moved by all these macabre crimes the Russians have been committing in your country.
      Look! What the occupation forces are doing with your motherland? How do these invarders behave towards your mothers, sisters and compatriots? You see their hands are stained with the blood of your own defenceless people. You seem to be a senseless on looker to the killings of hundreds of children and women of your motherland who are massacred, buried alive and bombed out. Instead of offering a ceasefire to a people who are struggling to liberate your homeland, you should ask your Russian masters to stop killing your people, stop detroying your country and stop burning your farms, orchards and forests and stop using chemical warfare against your defenceless people.
      You call the liberators of your land as miscreants, rebels and belligerent; while you yourself garland the invaders tanks whose chains are stained with the blood of our
 defenceless people and you give badges and medals to these Red soldiers who are the killers of your innocent people.
      What have Russian tanks brought to your people other then death and destruction to be so profusely garlanded? Whether the Russian forces have defeated the NATO pact forces in a superpower conflict to be given badges and medals of championship?
      On the other hand General Najib invites to peace. The peace Najib has proposed at the behest of his Russian masters is as such;
      1. Resitance against the Russian invaders should be stopped
      2. Some opponents of the regime should be convinced to participate in a
 Parcham-Khalq brand government and be satisfied with just nominal posts in such a government.
      3. The Russian forces should stay as long as such a government is secured in power or until they disarm the nation and remove the chance of uprising for a second time against the puppet government for ever.
      4. At last, the Russian forces will withdraw at any time they wish with confidence.
      The above mentioned four items are the major conditions of the peace Najib has proposed at the behest of the Russians.
      General Najib! Tell me, what do your peace offers mean other than making our people surrender to your Russian masters and vacate their positions which are stained with the blood of 1.1 million of our people and lay down their arms?
      Basically the offer of ceasefire should have been made by the Russian and not Najib whose government's full authority rests with the Russian advisors. The question of ceasefire with the Russians can only be discussed, when they withdraw from our country. Ceasefire in the presence of the Russians can only be discussed, when they withdraw from our country Ceasefire in the presence of the Russian forces is tantamount to approving of the Russian's occupation of our country, shameful accomodation and capitulation to the enemy.
      General Najib has spoken of releasing
The Mujahideen Monthly
8
Jan - Feb 1987
 those prisoners who repent over their past and offer loyalty to the puppet government; wheras today all of our country has been turned into a horrifying prison. Each military garrison is a prison. Every village of the occupied areas is a prison. Every office is a prison. Each town is a prision and all of our people are in the prison. As long as the Russians are in Afghanistan, whole of our country will remain a prison. The sun of independence will not rise unless the Russians withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, and our people will not relish the joy of liberty. The puppet government in Kabul had better open the gates of the military garrisons and barracks of the so-called Afghan Army and release those prisoners who have been forcibly conscripted to the army service after being hunted our in the towns and villages by the Russian army. They are used, contrary to their wishes, against the Mujahideen in the battlefield. Those prisoners-cum-soldiers do not want to fight against their nation, They do not want to spill the blood of their brothers and resent to kill their own people at the behest of alien forces.
      The puppet regime should defuse all the mines planted around the basses, posts and camps of so-called Afghan Army meant to reduce the desertion rate. They should set the Afghan Army free and then see if they aim their guns at the Russians or Majahideen and whom do they side with? Isn't the escape of brave Afghan soldiers from their barracks, camps and posts in large scale in spite of all possible security measures, abundant proof that all these garrision and camps are prisons and jails? The barracks, posts, military camps are all jails. AH the cities and towns in the occupied areas which are surrounded by security belts are all in all prisons, as people are not permitted free movements in the cities, the houses of innocent people are broken into by the Russian and agent forces and their dignity and privacy transgressed. Suffocation and fear prevail all around-fear of being tortured and persecuted at the hands of KHAD and KGB agents, fear of forcible entry to one's house, fear of conscription of one's
sons to be used in a disgusting war aginst their own fellow Muslim.
      General Najib! Tell me what role does the PD PA (Communist Party) play in the affairs of Afghanistan? What can this party do without instructions and orders from the Russian masters? On which authority can you offer peace, ceasefire and reconciliation? Swear in the name of Lenin and Babrek, your mentor, don't you see your fate similar to that of Tarake, Amin and Babrek and as horrible as theirs?
      Tel me if you were taken into confidence about the recent withdrawal of the six regiments of the Russian forces whom you saluted and profusely garlanded? Did you or any of your ministers know about the withdrawal of these six regiments until Gorbachev announced it in Veladivastok? Tell me the truth, if Gorbachev’s announcement was not shoking to you when you heard it first? Wasn't your recent visit to Moscow following the one made by the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, in which you were so hurriedly summoned like an ordinary Soviet embassy official, unexpected to you? Did you know up to the last mement of your audience with Gorbachev along with your Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Foreign Minister and other important ministers, what were you summoned for? Weren't you and your colleagues' hearts throbing in anxiety that you would meet the fate of your predecessors, particularly when you noticed that a person with the status of Foreign Minister came to receive you at the Moscow airport?
      The head of government, General Secretary of the Commuist Party of Afghanistan and the most important members of his cabinet visit a friendly country but nobody else than the Foreign Minister should come to receive them at the Moscow airport.
      And when the Soviet Foreign Minister come to Afghanistan he is received by Najib and the most important members of his cabinet at the airport
      General Najib addresses the A fghan refugees and invites them to return to their
The Mujahideen Monthly
9
Jan - Feb 1987
 country. What change has taken place that the series of migration and wanderingness should end and that the refugees should return to their homes with dignity? Have the Russian froces left our country that refugees should return? Has the puppet government of Najib been -overthrown that our people should leave a sigh of relief and go back to their homes’ After these two causes of the war in Afghanistan are removed and the flames of fighting are extinguished our people will return with assurance and dignity to their destroyed houses and villages. Our people have risen for the liberation of their country, the expulsion of foreign forces and the establishment of an Islamic government. And for the achievement of these goals they have endured the hardships of this protracted war and have been patient with all the deprivations, agonies, martyrdoms and wanderingess. We wonder which one of these goals has been achieved that our Mujahid nation should lay down its arms and stop the struggle?
     Instead of addressing the- refugees, Najib should ask the Russians how long bombing will persist? How long innocent people will continue being driven out of their homes and houses and villages will remain exposed to destruction. He should address himself and his comrades how long will they remain at the serfice of the Russians, how long will they remain slave to the aliens and how long will their hostilities with the nation continue? It is enough. Leave this ns trim alone.
     But the pathetic mass exodus of refugees does not grieve the conscience of these flinty elements? They don't take pity on the plight of the refugees whose houses have been destroyed, farms and harvests burned and their everthing lost and who have no other way but to migrate to the neighbouring countries. But still these refugees are followed by the savage Russian forces and their meric-less agents and bombed and strafed by SU-25s and gunship helicopters. The caravans of these refugees are ambushed and women and children are mericilessly massacred.
     Shorn of all human sympathies and
 consideration the Kaoul rulers are in no mood to stop indiscrimnate bombardments of villages and refugees caravans, Rather they are collously taunting the refugees for receiving aid from foreign chairty organisations. What a ridiculous gimmick! Who could oe decieved by such empty words? Who doesn't know what is the root-cause of their miserable odyssey and who degraded our self-respecting and high-headed nation? bore surprisingly, Najib calls the present conflict as a fighting between two Muslim groups and insists on the reconciliation between them.
      Indeed the fighting is between the occupying Russian forces who have installed their agent regime and our Mujahid nation who does not want to knuckle down to slavery and accept living under an infernal Communist regime
      If any Afghan fights alongside the aggressive Russian forces is neither Afghan nor the faithful; he may be a helpless fellow taken prisonei either from his house, office, classrom, farms or factory and sent, to the army barracks which are surrounded by anti-personnel mines meant to prevent his desertion. In the course of fighting too he is placed in the forefront so as to be the fuel of war on the one hand and should reluctantly fire against the Mujahideen on the other hand. And in case of failure he becomes target of the bullets of the Russian army which occupies the back lines of the battlefield.
      We wonder on what reasons Najib calls it a fighting between two Muslim groups and tries to quote from the Holy Quran which he cannot recite correctly let alone understand its meanings. No doubt, on one side of this war is our faithful nation. But tell me who is on the opposite side? Are the Russians or PDPA the Muslims? The Russian leader recently reprimanded officials and members of the Communist Party in Toshkant for their participation in religious riutals. He told them to sternly deal with the religious phenomenon. And as for the PDPA it is a Maists-Leninist party and is based on atheism.
      Have the Russians become Muslims or the Khalq party has renounced Commu-
The Mujahideen Monthly
10
Jan - Feb 1987
 nism? We do not know which one of them has become Muslim.
      Mujahid brothers :
      Our Islamic revolution is in a very sensitive and eventful stage. We should move and take steps with wisdom and prudence. We should identify the enemy's consperacies and nip them in the bud. We should avoid feeding on pseudo hopes and expectations which are misleading like a mirage. We should not be taken in by the enemy's deceptive manoeuveraboltity duping us in to accepting transient and provisional solutions. We should not allow the enemy to achieve by deception what they could not achieve in the 104 months long war. When the sly enemy sensed that the suppression of our Mujahid nation was not possible in the battlefield and that the atrocities and the increase in military units did not work, they resorted to beguiling hap: for the achievement of their nefarious designs.
      Every revolutionary movement, in the course of its struggle, does pass through such sensitive stages. Those who compromise on this delicate juncture and deign toward let-up in the momentum on vain hopes, indeed, lose all their gains. The example of the Algerian revolution is before us where one million people wer martyred under the banner of Islam due to their agreeing to a political solution and the establishment of national government just when the victory vjas quite close. As a result the revolutionaries failed to achieve their goal of Islamic revolution and the power was snatched by those who had no stake in the whole struggle.
      On historical consciousness calls for the continuation of the armed struggle till the Islamic flag is hoisted on a free and independent land. Condescension to the ceasefire in the presence of Russian forces in Afghanistan is an ignoble and unpardonable act which neither Allah will forgive nor the 1.1 million martyres.
      For the solution of the Afghan crisis, the cessation of war and bloodshed and restora-
 tion of peace and security in our country we propose a solution based on the following three main conditions:
      1. The unconditional, complete and immediate withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan.
      2. The establishment of an interim government, supported by our Mujahid nation which will prepare the ground for general election.
      3. The establishment of an Islamic elected government as a result of free and fair election.
      Those who do not accept our proposal and choose to resort to the use of force and conspiracies and compromise on principles for achieving their nefarious designs, we declare that the slogan of our Mujahid nation during armed struggle will be the following:
      As long as there are Russian forces in our country and the sowrd-law continues, war is our shield and war is our skill. Continuation of armed Jihad until the expulsion of foreign troops. War until independence, peace after victory. We will not be statisfied with anything less than an Islamic government in the free and independent Afghanistan. We will not lay down our arms until the total, unconditional and prompt withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghnistan. In the presence of Russian forces in Afghistan we consider the end of war even for a moment as a felony. As long as there is a single foreign soldier on our soil our struggle will be continuing uninterrupted.
      Let us renew our commitment to Allah as well as people and pledge on this historic day: (Those who share the following commitments should raise their hands)
 ** We would not be satisfied with anything less than an Islamic government in free and independen t A fghan is tan.
 ** Until the total, unconditional and prompt withdrawal of the Russian forces we will not lay down our arms.
      We believe that the continuation of our armed struggle will ultimately force the aggressive Russians to vacate our country uncondi-
The Mujahideen Monthly
11
Jan — Feb 1987
 tionally. We belieye in the definite victory of the Jehad of our Muslim nation and have no doubts about it. The situation of Jihad has been, after eight years and eight months, better than any year before. The strong bases and the determination, patience and fortitude of our Mujahideen make us hopeful and sure about the future, and the repeated defeats of the Russians on the battlefield add to our certitude. The disarray of the Khalq and Par-chum parties and the low morale of the enemy forces are pointers that the Russians are bound to vacate Afghanistan. They are disappointed with the occupation of Afghanistan. For the first time they have admitted that they would not like their forces to remain in Afghanistan for a long time. They are dismayed and too tired to continue the war. They consider it as their hell. Najib says the war is hell and hell is the place of sinners.
      Yes, war is hell to all those who fight for an untrue cause. But a Mujahid who fights for the superemacy of righteousness and the liberation of his country believes that heaven lies under the shadow of swords. If war is
 your he/^ but war is a bridge for a faithful Mujahid to enter paradise. To be sure, the heaven of a Mujahid is under the shadow of swords. Yet war is hell to Najib and his Khalq and Parcham parties. The determination of our Mujahid nation will ultimately remind Gorbachev a question once posed to Mr. Gladstone, a Prime Minister of the Great Britain. Mr. Gladstone was asked how the British army was able to conquer the whole world but could not subdue a few unarmed Afghan tribes. Gladstone replied how to deal with a nation who saw heaven through the barrels of their guns? / hope the Russians will also one day see their defeat in Afghanistan the way Mr. Gladstone had done.
      The morning of victory is dose. It is awaiting our patience and fortitude. The morning of victory is close provided ypu and me have patience and fortitude.
      We believe that the morning of victory is very dose, we are sure that Allah, glory be to Him, will not nullify the sacrifices of our Mujahid nation. In the hope of a bright future - in the hope of the victory of Islam.
Afghan refugees and Mujahideen's rally in Islamabad on December 27.
TJhe Mujahideen Monthly
12
Jpn - Feb 1987
   Bv Stir Gul Speen
                The loss and reinformcement of Red Army
The wreckage of helicopter at Jahadwal Brigade.
   After World War II the Russian expansionism has met the toughest resistance in Afghanistan. Indeed, none would have expected it. It was the miscalculation of the Kremlin that 80,000 Red troops, aided by
 100,000   Afghan soldiers, would be able to grapple with the Islamic resistance and would settle things in Afghanistan in a preplanned way.
   The Russians, were believed to be the masters of guerilla warfare but the Afghan Mujahideen proved it otherwise in the battlefield. The Russian Brigadiers. Generals, and Marshals, who displayed their grit in the invasion of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, could do no miracles, met their fate at the hands of unbowing Afghans. Many of them even lost their previous positions and good number of them were sacked for losing the battles against the freedom fighters. Thousands of them paid the price of their lives for their audacity, and almost equal number of them took bullet-mark to Russians.
   Peace and cohesion marked Afghanistan as an independent country known for its non-aligned status. Yet Britain had shown it in the Soviet orbit. This is one of the reasons that the free world stayed away from the Afghan scene to avoid direct confrontation with Moscow. As a result the Afghans were left alone in the arena to come to grip with a Superpower. Yet the same Power has been dismayed to realize the Afghanistan is a hard nut to crack and it will be no longer possible to retain hold over it The Kremlin has tacitly hinted at its dilemma in different world fora-
Needless to say that material weapons cannot help in winning a war.
RED TROOPS
   Here we look into the yearwise record of the Red Army in Afghanistan provided by the underground members of different Mujahideen groups in Kabul as well as other provinces. The report particularly speaks of Russian casualties and their reinforcement.
   In 1980 Russian force No. 40 was consisted of Combined Arms Army (CAA), Motorised Rifle Division (BRD), Airborne Division (AD), Motorised Rifle Brigades/ Regiments (MRB/R). The fight spreaded throughout the country and the Russians casualties had reached around 15,000 troops by December 1980. Since more infantry forces were -involved in the
 fighting, the casualties marked rose higher.
    In 1981 the Russians, besides filling the gap of 15,000 men, brought additional 30,000 troops comprising Air Assault Brigades/ Regiments (AAB/R), Attack Helicopter Regiments (AHR), Transport Helicopter Regiments (THR). The total strength of the Red Army mounted to 110,000 men. The Russian casualties fell down to
 12.000   by the end of 1981. The Reason was that they got familiar with the region and also used armoured and artillery units against the Mujahideen and very often sent their infantry units into the frontline of their offensives.
    In 1982, the Kremlin sent extra
 20.000   troops plus 12,000 soldiers for filling the 1981 casualties. The Red Army Supreme Command sent most of their infantry forces back
The Mujahideen Monthly
13
Jan — Feb 1987
 to their country and replaced them by doubling MRB/R, AHR, AAB/ R, and THR units and also Air-borne/Airmobile Brigades (A/AB), Multiple Rocket Launcher Regiments (MRLR). The number of the Russian forces went up to 130,000. They changed their tactics by shelling and bombing the Mujahideen positions from long distance to avoid their casualties.
    In 1982 the most effective gun-ship helicopters were MI-24-D and MI-24-E, because the rumour was floated in the country that none could shot them down. This did have impact on the Mujahideen's morale. The Mujahideen avoided those Russian convoys which were moving under protection of these helicopters. That is why the Russian casualties came down to 9,000 men in 1982.
  BRUTAL OPERATIONS
                                                                                                         In 1983 the Russians launched heavy offensives, employing three
 or four divisions at a time. Besides raiding the Mujahideen's strongholds they also increased their attacks on villages and towns burning farms and crops to deprive the Mujahideen of people s I material support as well as food supply. Those brutal operations forced thousands of people to take refuge in the neighbouring countries. The same year 40,000 additional Soviet flowed into Afghanistan, making a total of 150,000 men By the end of 1983 the Russian casualties shot up to 10,000 men.
 INTELLIGENCE NETWORK
   The next year about 30,000 fresh troops joined the Russian-Afghan army in the Spring offensives against the Mujahideen throughout Parwan including the Panjshir valley. Besides, a network of KGB and Khidmat-i-Aminiat Daulati (KHAD) - Government Security Service — was given shape to prop up the army intelligence.
 This made the offensives a partial success. Moreover the Panjshir people were freed to visit Kabul for a few days, and this made way for government to collect military information about the Mujahideen. This tactic made it easy for the Russian to bomb the ammunition depots and important strategic peaks not only in the Panjshir valley, but in many parts of Afghanistan.
    The same year the Mujahideen were encouraged by reports from different fronts, where rocket-propelled grenade IRPG-7) could be used against the gunship helicopters. This boosted the Mujahideen's morale and they put up a tough resistance to the Red troops. By the end of 1984 the Russian casualties jumped to 11,000, whereas their troops were around 180,000.
 TRADITIONAL CLOTHES FOR R USJ51 Aty-AFGHAN TROOPS:
    The aim of this tactic in 1985
The wreckage of Russian tank.
The Mujahideen Monthly
14
Jan - Feb 1987
Anotaly Dobrynin, talking to the American delegate in Kremlin, last November, about the loss of Red Army. Where the Russians confessed that about 26000 ol their soldiers are killed and 65000 wounded.
 was to confuse the general public so that they could not distinguish between the Mujahideen and government troops. This gave them an easy access to the Mujahideen hideouts. But this tactic worked only for a short period. In the first few weeks of 1985 the Mujahideen fought desperately to defeat the army. The- same year SU-24 and SU-25 were used against the Muja-hjdeen. But all this could not prevent the Russian casualties which mounted to 12,000. On the other hand 20,000 commandos arrived in three phases ar.d the total number of Russian troops went Uffcto about 200,000.
 DIPLOMATIC ONSLAUGHT
    At the very outset of 11986 about 20,000 Spitnatz troops bulged up the Russian-Afghan army stationed in different provinces. Heavy bombardment, shelling and then dropping spitnatz arou/td the Mujahideen strongholds were the frantic efforts to wipe out the resistance. Yet the Mujahideen (ought heroically throughout the year and made the Russians kneel down till they cache out with diplomatic manoeuverings to disarm the Mujahideen Karmal was shamefully substituted by another lackey, Dr Najib, and several senior officers were also shifted to give the false impression as if the Russians had realised people's demand and they (Russians) wanted to end ■the Afghan crisis
    The Russians well fed their lobbies abroad to propagate about their eagerness for restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan. Another baiting was the withdrawal of 8,000 solders of the anti-aircraft regiments. The Kremlin took this step to abate the world anger in UN General Assembly and also to reduce U S. President. Mr. Reagan, not to raise the Afghan issue at the Reykjavick meeting.
    Yet soon after Moscow sent
 15.000  troops comprising tank units, artillery and commando brigades. Anyhow the Russian casual ties went upto 14,000, whereas the total in the past seven years is about 63,000. According to the Mujahideen sources in the Ministries of Interior, Defence, and Intelligence (KHAD) about 20,000 of these were killed and the rest were wounded.
 CASUALTIES
   According to a groups of Americans, who visited Moscow last November to discuss the Afghan issue there they came to know that the number of Russians casualties was much higher. One day during discussion the hosts. Mr. Anatoly Dobrynin and his colleagues, asked the guests (Americans) about the Russian casualties. When told about
 13.000  Red soldiers might have been killed, a Russian, who could speak persian with the Iranian accent, said, "No", giving sign with his head to go up. To the surprise of the guests the disclosure was "26,000" killed and "65,000" wounded. It was also divulged at the same meeting that the Soviets considered the Afghan-Soviet War ras^’severe and serious".
   Apart from 220,000 Russian troops inside Afghanistan, there are about 50,000 troops along the Af-
 ghan-Soviet border on the Soviet soil, which also penetrate in the northern and northwest Afghanistan for certain operations.
    With the exception of few units of the Red Army, nearly every unit has served between one and two-year term in Afghanistan All together about 600,000 Russian troops participated in the genocide and devestation of the Afghans and their country. Also Afghanistan is said to be a test-ground for the Soviet Army. The Mujahideen say that the Russians have tried their best against them but in vain. Indeed, they have paid a heavy price for their folly, and they won’t repeat it now
    The anti-Breznev tirade by the Soviet Press and by Gorbachev himself is ample proof that the Russians have learned a lot from Brezhnev si mistakes. Now they are in a state of quandary about their southern border. Afghanistan, no doubt, is of vital importance to the Russians interests, but for the Afghans free Afghanistan is above everything. At this stage the Afghans and the free world believe it is not the Soviet agents who have failed to gain support among the people or to get rid of the Islamic resistance, but it is the Russians who have failed to impose their will on the Afghan nation despite their Stupendous might.
The Mujahideen Monthly
15
Jan - Fet> 1987
By Gulzar Mashkoor
                 The Barikot battle
Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar, Vice Chairman of the
                                                                                                               Defence Committee.
   December 27, had blazed up the grira memory of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the hearts of the Mujahideen animating them to strike at the Soviet bases as a revengeful measure. The Barikot battle was reflective of the same psyche, whose inner fire had balanced up the chill all around.
   Barikot, located opposite Aran-do, border t6wn of Chitral, has been a stimulant point for the Mujahideen for the 'last eight
 years. The Hezb-iHslami /Mghanis-tan’ men led by Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar, Vice-Chairman of Defence Committee, and three senior commanders Abdul Ghafoor Abadi, Major Ubaidullah Khan Khoshyar. and Mohammad Daoud of Safaq, Sayed Jamaludin Afghani, Kamdish Fronts and Hazrat Hamzah Brigade moved up to the surroundings of Barikot on Dec. 24 to clear anti-personnel mines, booby traps, and toy-bombs in antici-
 pation of the onslaught.
    Thick dark clouds shadowing the Barikot deep vallies and high snowcapped mountains, augured well for the Mujahideen who were safe from the whizzing of helicopters and jets.
    The freedom fighters said, Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar planned with the three mentioned commander to attack the Brigade and all the posts around it, but the heavy snowfall fear of mines and the chilly weather made them change the plan. After studying the enemy position they planned to attack the three strategic bases: Battalion No. Ill, Spin Ghar and Doka-lam posts, and the Barikot brigade itself.
    The clearance of routes called for both prowess and courage. The groping of mines and booby-traps in the snowlayers was a terrible job. Engineer Musafar, Gul Akber Khan and Khan Zareen, Abdul Ghafoor Khadim, Pir Mohammad and Yar Mohammad were deputed on this uphill task and it took them about 48 hours to finish it. However, Musafar, Gul Akbar Khan and Khan Zareen were injured when a mine blasted under Gul Akber Khan's feet, and’ the incident delayed the attack for one day.
    Next morning the plan was chalked out by Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee:      Sayed
 Jamaludin Afghan and Shafaq Fronts were to attack Battalion No. Ill, while the Mujahideen of Hazrat Hamzah and Kamdish Front were to strike at the Barikot headquarters, artillery unit. Battalion No. I, and anti-aircraft unit with 75mm and 82mm cannons
The Mujahideen Monthly
16
Ian. - Feb 1987
 •HtU J1 1V      
      11 - - .If 
           j r-  
If> -yjuf i      
. .1:            
      --- r      
iS/jb , i, ,i;   
      j•*» r     
irrA  jl.T . IL. 
inr jr           
                 
 Photo and documents of Shamsullah Saadat S/o Dad Mullah from Panjshir and Organ (full member) of Parcham party. He was Director of operation as well as Head of the Political affairs of Infantry Division No. 9 of Kunar and was arrested by Mujahideen in the same battle. Later he was hanged.
     OjtT
_______(fo—.
_______• _______________
        Ojfcf    (5Ua->l
 and Multi Barrels Rocket launcher (MBRL-12).
   On December 27 last around 3:45 p.m. Shafaq Front under Abdul Ghafoor Abadi, Sayed Jamaludin Afghani Front under Major Ubaidullah Khan Khoshyar and Kamdish Front under Duod fell on their given targets.
   During the operation 60 officers and soldiers were captured alive and about 50 were killed, while others escaped. The Mujahideen seized all the arms and ammunition, food and clothes from the posts.
   Next morning three more posts of Battalion No. Ill fell and the Mujahideen were able to silence the enemy artillery. Since the day was a bit bright several jets came for bombing. The Mujahideen shot down one of the them and the remaining ones disappeared.
   In the afternoon fresh troops were brought to Barikot from Brigade No. 49 and infantry Division No. 9 of Chaghasurai, Kunar province by nine helicopters.
   When the troops were landing the Mujahideen increased their
long-range firing and proceeded to get closer. At this time Haji Mohammad Anwar, of Puli Rustum, Sayed Aman and Wali Mohammad were martyred and 13 other were wounded all by antipersonnel mines.
                                                                                                  When the Mujahideen were busy in carrying the Shaheeds and
f. Barikot „Brigade.
 wounded companions to the back line, the government soldiers recaptured some of the posts. The Mujahideen launched another raid after two hours and took fuM control of Battalion No. III.
   In the second attack Maulavi Mohammad Karim, senior subcommander of Shafaq Front,
/
 L_______________________1
 Major Ubaidullah Khan Khoshyar
 Jamaludin and Fateh Khan were martyred and 11 other freedom fighter were wounded. On the other side 27 more Kabul army officers and soldiers were arrested and twice the number were killed. During this attack the Mujahideen seized a lot of arms and ammunition.
The Mujahideen Monthly
17
Jan — Feb 1987
    On December 29 and 30 the Mujahideen were in full control of the Spin Ghar post and Battalion No. III. On the night of December 30/1st January fresh troops were brought by helicopters from
Commander 4. Ghafnor A bad'
 Brigade No. 81 of Jalalabad. Then in the morning they atta eked the Mujahideen positions both from air and land. By the evening the government forces were retreated, while leaving several dead bodies_ One jet was shot down. One Mujahid N.adief Khan was martyred and three others were wounded*
    On January 2nd the Mujal'm deen fired several surface-to-surface rockets on the Barikot Head-
 quarters.—This was a formidable blow to the regime troops After two hours fresh troops were brought from Kabul by 21 Helicopters. On the other side of the Brigade the helicopters were hovering three metres above froro_the ground and the soldiers were jumping from them.
    At this time one helicopter, was destroyed by a surface-to, surface rocket, when the soldiers were jumping from it. The pilot, co-pilot and 11 othei" soldiers near the copter were killed.
    The Afghan soldiers landing were accompanied by a heavy bombardments of eight SU-24 on Mujahideen positions. The enemy also dropped several bombs on Arando, the border town of Pakistan.
    Later at the evening the Mujahideen received news that two Russian advisors, three senior Afghan officers wer^ killed and seven others were wounded by the morning rockets firing when they were at a meeting.
    During this seven-day fighting all ammunition depots of the Afghan army were blown up by the Mujahideen. Several buildings and barracks were destroyed at
Wreckage of MI-24-D helicopter carried by camel to Pakistan.
    Commander M. Daoud Barikot A total of 13- Afghan army officers, two Russian advisors and about 200 soldiers were illed and almost the same number Of Afghan officers and soldiers wounded On the Mujahideen side eight were martyred and 39 woun-
Shaheed Maulvi Muhammad Karim
    The Mujahideen also seized one 76mm cannon with 300 shells. One 14.5mm anti-aircraft gun with
 50,000   rounds, four 82mm mortars with 2.800 shells, three heavy machineguns known as Garinov with 100,000 rounds, 100 kala-shinkovs with 400,000 rounds —50 magazine — 50 baynotes, 10 R— 105 wireless sets, eight telephone sets four binoculars, 1000 hand-grenades, important military maps of Kunar with army documents plus other logistic goods.
The Mujahideen Monthly
18
Jan - Feb 1987
By Prof. Aminuilalt
                       Change in Soviet manoeuvre
   The Russians have been forced to change their position regarding the Afghan cause. Initially the Soviets were not ready to discuss their troop withdrawal as they wanted the UN mediator to concentrate on the Afghanistan problem only. Later they took the stand that the pullout was a bilateral matter of the USSR and Pakistan.
   However, after Gorbachev's emergence as the Soviet leader and his admission that Afghanistan was a "BLEEDING WOUND" for rhe USSR, the Soviets showed willingness to withdraw from Afghanistan within a longer period. To project themselves as sincere and trustworthy they staged a drama by withdrawing six of their battalions from Afghanistan, whereas in reality, it was a rotation of their troops. Confirmed reports say that more than 15000 troops were sent to Afghanistan weeks before the so-called withdrawal.
   By taking all these steps the Russians intended to convince the Pakistani officials of their willingness to defuse the Afghan crisis and ultimately to vacate Afghanistan
   The Soviets took another step in May 1986, removing Karmal from the ruling hierarchy in Afghanistan. Indeed, this was the beginning of a slow-poisoning process, and he was reduced to the position of a titular head of the Kabul regime. Later he lost this post too as well as the membership of politbureau Obviously. the Soviet strategy was to hoodwink the concerned parties which were not ready to negotiate with a regime installed with the help of Soviet tanks. The Soviet gesture was that the question of the
 'ruler in Afghanistan was not so important and they evinced their flexibility on it. And this type of action features the Soviet scheme of things/and also their own set-up. The recent statement of Gorbachev in New Delhi that there were definite possibilities to strike a solution of the Afghanistan problem indica ted the Russians had been forced to change their perception of the Afghan scene.
 PARTY TUSSLE:
     Of course, the removal of Karmal has intensified the 30-year old hostilities between the Khalq and Parcham factions of the Communist Party. The lust for power alienated Dr. Najib from the Parchamis and he felt no scruples in betraying his mentor and benefactor Karmal.
     The replacement of Shah Mohammd Doost by Wakeel as the Foreign Minister of the regime caused further problem for Najib. Wakeel, the first cousin of Karmal, once intended to form Khayber faction of the Parcham party. For this reason Wakeel was sent to Vietnam as ambassador. His return as Foreign Minister might have two purposes: besides offending Kar-malites it could keep check on Mah-mood Baryatai, the brother of Karmal and head of the International Department of the Kabul regime.
     Najib will be facing a lot of problems as he lacks the calibre to head a party. It should be kept in mind how Karmal survived while Taraki and Amin were wiped out.
                                    i
 The outcast pawn might be reused by the political chess-master as they
 did while Amin outmanoeuvred Karmal, Baryalai, Anahita and even Najib for allegedly attempting to impose the Parcham faction on Afghanistan. The Russians tactically kept Karmal out of the scene and finally brought him back as a puppet head of the Kabul regime. The Russians thought that Najib, against his Pashtoon background would be able to infiltrate into tribal leaders; but this did not come true. The experiment fragmented the Parcham faction into pieces: Karmal faction, Najib faction, Sultan Ali Kishtmand faction and so on.
   Then the subtlety of the Kremlin brain flowed into a unilateral ceasefire for six months, general amnestry to all Afghans outside the country and inviting the Mujahideen leaders and others to participate in a national government under the Najib leadership. In fact, Gorbachev has his own winks and feints in the so-called peace proposal. fancying that the freedom fighters would be duped into submission. But they have outrightly rejected it, saying the presence of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan makes the offer just a farce. They insist that the only solution to the Afghan issue is the immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops from their land leaving the Afghans alone to decide on their future type of government.
 MUJAHIDEEN:
   The Mujahideen are in a stronger position than ever before. They are more organized than in the past and have obtained a better fighting experience. They have support of the
The Mujahideen Monthly
19
Jan - Feb 1987
 nation, are better equipped and well understand the fighting tactics of the enemy. They courageously launch big operation in or around the big cities.
    Recently, Kabul experienced a series of raids of the Mujahideen. A big explosion was caused by the Mujahideen in the Soviet Embassy and Soviet Trade Attache office. In the explosion of the Qargha ammunition depots about 25 buildings were destroyed and more than 250 enemy troops killed.
    The Russians have realized that they cannot smother the resistance movement as 90 percent of the countryside under the virtual control of the Mujahideen. They have established their own educational institutions, administration and the judicial system. In most of the lib-rated areas the Mujahideen grow crops and raise cattle for the meat consumption. They seek inspiration from the concept of martyrdom and this accelerates their resistence tempo for the sake of establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan, More than 150,000 armed Mujahideen belong only to Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
    Different Mujahideen groups have coordination in the war strategy and have formed a seven-party alliance, namely, Ittehad-i-lslami Mujahideen Afghanistan. They have also a seven-member Supreme Council, the highest decision-making body. They are representated by a single spokesman at different international fora. The political committee military committee, educational committee, communication, refugee and health committees are working under the guidance of the Supreme Council. Their multifaceted cooperation exists on all levels and in all regions of the country.
 RUSSIAN SOLDIERS:
    The Russians fortified by tanks, APCs, mines, gunship helicopters
and security ring posts are not safe even in the ten per-cent of the Af ghan soil. Their morale is going down day by day. The Russian soldiers are cheated by their officers who tell them that their confrontation would be with the Chinese, the Pakistanis and others in Afghanistan. But they find only the Mujahideen'who are fighting for the liberation of their country and the freedom of their faith. This damps their fighting stamina and leads them to frustration. Colonel Bashmatullah. ex-acting commander of Division 11 of Nangarhar, said that he himself had witnessed the two Russian soldiers committing suicide in Charikar, provincial centre of Par wan a year ago. Furthermore, the Russian soldiers are not able to fight the Afghan Mujahideen who are inspired by a noble cause Soldiers from Central Asia pass information to the Mujahideen. If get a chance, they join the Mujahideen and fight against the Russians, hoping after the liberation of Afghanistan their country will cast off the yoke of slavery too.
   Worst of all, the Russian soldiers are commonly dope-friends. Stories go that the Russian soldiers swap away their weapons for the sake of small amount of hashish.
RUSSIANS LOSSES
   A desperate resistance on the part of brave Mujahideen have compelled the Russians to triple their troops in Afghanistan — from
85,000   in 1979 to 250,000 lately stated by Dr. Najib. So far, they have lost more than 750 aircraft — jets, gunship helicopters and transport planes — and over 8500 tanks, APCs and army vehicles have been destroyed. Their casualties are thirty person a day. Last October the Russians lost 31 aircraft and about 20 aircraft were either shot down or destroyed in November.
 “Not a single
 ±          ——
  refugee has
  returned”
  The following is the text of
interview of Eng. Gulbudin
Hekmatyar with the English
magazine ‘Herald of Karachi.
     Q. Why have the guerilla groups rejected Najibullah's ceasefire offer and the Afghan government's efforts at reconciliation?
     A. Bismillah ,.. Actually, this war was imposed on our nation by the Russians when they started interfering in our internal affairs. They imposed a communist government on our nation through the officers trained in the Soviet Union and through Russian military advisers. Our nation rejected this and started an armed struggle. When the struggle was almost over and the regime was on the verge of being thrown out, the Russians realised that the puppet regime could not survive and sent in troops to prolong the war — a war that was going in our nation's favour.
     So, there were two main reasons
The Mujahideen Monthly
20
Jan - Feb 1987
 for the war. First. Russian intervention through which they were able to impose a communist government on our nation and secohd. direct military intervention in support of the regime they had imposed. Both these causes are present even today. Nothing has changed. The same government is there and Soviet troops are also there. We believe the solution is simple. If the Russian troops withdraw from Afghanistan today, peace will return to our country tomorrow. The peace proposals are nothing new. Even in the past such offers were made to all major fighting groups by the government. But our people rejected them, saying that weapons would not be laid down as long as Soviet troops were present in the country. Talk of a coalition government is not a new proposal either. Our people rejected the National Fatherland Front in the past, which was a cosmetic exercise, an attempt to bring in some new faces, comprising non-party members. Replacing Babrak Karmal with Haji Mohammad Chamkani was another such
 ploy, to show the world that noncommunists were also included in the government. But our people saw through these ploys and rejected them. The latest peace move is, therefore, nothing new. The Soviets are trying to show the world that they seek a settlement, and that the Mujahideen do not want peace. They are trying to complicate the issue. Rather than make such proposals, they should take the practical step of withdrawing. But they will not do so. They are only trying to deceive our nation and the whole world. Realising that they can't impose a military solution with the current level of troops, they want to prepare the ground for inducting more troops in such a way that they are not accused by the international community of stepping up hostilities. That is why they want the world to believe that they offered peace but the Mujahideen insisted on fighting, forcing them to react. If the Soviets do not withdraw, they will have to bring in more troops. It is simply impossible for them to control the situation
 with what they have now. Thus, the peace offer is only a propaganda offensive. That is why we have found it unacceptable
    Q. Having rejected the peace proposals, do you seriously believe you can emerge victorious in the armed conflict?
    A. We believe we will win the war and make the Russians realise that it is impossible to impose a military solution. We will make them realise that it is impossible to rule Afghanistan forever and impose their puppet regime on the people. The continuation of this long war — eight years and nine months - is proof enough of this. We are determined to continue our struggle and arc optimistic of the outcome. Our January 17 rally also proved this. Just by making one announcement, and that too only two days earlier, we were able to gather three lakh people. Around
 1,200,000   of our people live in the area that lies between Bajaur and Miranshah, which means that out of every family of four-odd people, one participated. Some of our people who live at a distance from those areas were unable to attend. We put our decision to continue the struggle before them and asked those in favour to raise their hands. They all did and continued to raise slogans in support of the jihad. We were able to quieten them down only after much persuasion.
    Q. How do you view the current situation within Afghanistan?
    A. The fighting continues there. The peace proposals have not-chan-ged the situation anywhere in the country. The general situatfon, in my view, is in favour of the Mujabi' deen. In fact, the situation this year is better than in any previous year. The Mujahideen were able to carry out successful operations almost
Tbe Mujahideen Monthly
21
Jan - Feb 1987
 everywhere in Afghanistan. Every major Soviet base was attacked. The Soviets have succeeded in making limited areas safe from the Mujahideen and have suffered heavy casualties.
    Q. You have claimed that 90 percent of Afghanistan's area has been liberated and is under the control of the Mujahideen.
    A. Yes, it's true. It means that there are no government bases, no civil administation, no government offices. Everything is being controlled by the Mujahideen. Education, courts, administration, local governments. When the Russians try to enter these areas they face strong resistance. This is what we mean by liberated areas.
    Q. If this it the case, why have the refugees living in Pakistan and Iran not returned home?
    A. As you know, fighting is going on and no one is safe from bombardment. The Soviets are bombarding all areas indiscriminately. Whenever they launched an attack, instead of hitting out at Mujahideen bases, they bomb civilian areas. They have created famine-like conditions in the liberated areas. They have burnt fields, destroyed villages and demolished the houses of the peasants. The refugees are forced to continue living abroad because it is not safe anywhere. However, the Mujahideen remain in Afghanistan. They have safe areas and bases where they can take refuge.
    Q. Would you like to comment on reports that the US has stepped up supplies of arms, including Stinger missiles, to the Mujahideen?
                                                                                                                A. This is just propaganda. There are people who want to create the impression that the war is not a struggle between the Afghans and
 the Russians, but a superpower conflict There are people, even here in ftikistan’ who are trying to create this impression. The pro-Russian element here is trying to offer a justification for the Soviet intervention and atrocities in Afghanistan by this suggestive propaganda — that the Mujahideen are backed by the western countries, particularly the USA — thus trying to prove that the USSR is not the only foreign party to the conflict. But one must remember that the struggle began during the Taraki regime and continued in the Hafizullah Amin period. All this took place while Jimmy Carter was in power in the US, the Democratic Party's policy is well-known. In fact. Carter had conceded that Afghanistan was an area of Soviet interest, only warning the Russians against moving any further. Even Pakistan recognised Taraki and Amin. Our struggle was in progress during this 18-month period. It only became an international issue when the Russian troops moved in. Most countries began to call for a Soviet withdrawal. Can all the 122 countries that have voiced support for an independent Afghanistan be accused of supporting us through supplies of arms etc.? This talk of supply of US weapons is merely propaganda.
    Q. Do you deny receiving any arms or other material help from the US? Has there not been a definite change in the US attitude since Ronald Reagan's Republican Administration came to power?
    A. Please ask the government of Pakistan this question. They have repeatedly maintained that Pakistan would never serve as a conduit for weapons meant for the Mujahideen, Where, then, is the passage through which arms can be supplied to us7 Believe me, we only use arms captured from the Russians in battle
 We have guns, tanks, armoured personnel-carriers and a host of other weapons. Recently (smiles), we have even brought you two helicopters of the type Vezirov (the Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan) has promised to supply Pakistan if it was willing to improve ties. As long as the Russians are present in Afghanistan and we continue to capture weapons in battle, I assure you we will need weapons from no one else. Admittedly, some countries help Pakistan with the refugees. But this is humanitarian aid and that too through the government of Pakistan.
    Q. But western newsmen who have visited Kabul have reported that hot flares, which serve a decoy for heat-seeking-missiles, are parachuted in the vicinity of the airport during take-off and landing of aircraft. Are you saying that you have captured surface-to-air missiles in battle?
    A (Smiles) Please ask the Russians why are they so scared. I can say no more.
    Q. Would you like to comment on reports that some of the refugees have begun to make the long trek horre. following the ceasefire?
    A. Our rally proved the determination and the will of the refugees. It is true that they were beginning to feel the time to return home was drawing nearer. But this was not because they thought the Russians would withdraw unilaterally or that they were preace-loving people, but, because the positive situation arising out of our jihad had made them hopeful, So when they heard that Najib had made a ceasefire offer, they thought that the Russians had been forced out of Afghanistan and so they started preparations to go back home. They began selling their cars, their belongings, in fact, every-
   Continued on Page 27
The Mujahideen Monthly
22
Jan — Feb 1987
By Prof. Aminullah
SU-25
background
    Prototype;, of wnar was clearly a new subsonic attack aircraft were displayed in Ramenskove test centre, near Moscow, in 1977, and the type was allotted the temporary designation of RAM.J. Early illustrations were highly inaccurate and may have even representatted an alternative prototype aimed at the same requirements.
    The Sukhoi design believed to have carried designation T—58, was selected for further development and according to normal Soviet practice, 30—40 pre-series aircraft were built in 1980 1981. The Sukhoi design believed to have carried designation SU-25 was first reported in the course of 1981, and the type was given the NATO codename Frogfoot.
    Early in 1982, about a dozen of the product*on aircraft were deployed at Shindand, Farah Province and used in action against the Mujahideen. These aircraft will probably be indetified as Frogfoot A by NATO.
     Early this'year the production SU-25 — likely to be known as Frogfoot B — appeared first in Afghanistan and then in service with the Czecgiskivaj Air Force It is also reported to be in service with Soivet units in Bulgharia and the southern USSR. It has not yet been observed in service with Soviet units in East Germany.
    SUKHOI SU 25 Frogfoot
                                                                                                                         Earlyier this year, clear photo-
 graphs of the production-type, Sukhoi SU-25 Frogfoot strike aircraft were released by the Czech slovak Air Force. SU-25 is an equivalent of the USAF/Fair-child A-10.
    The most important point to make is that the SU—25 and A—10 share some basic design priorities which distinguish them from other combat aircraft, but that in other respects they are quite different. They both address the same problem of tractical strike operations, where the fast jets, typically a fighter, a modified fighter, carry ing bomb and fuel tanks, is difficult to use effectively against mobile or imprecisely located targets and their effectiveness is further limited by weather and terrain.
    Although the fast jet can manoeuvre at high airspeeds the actual radius of its turn is large. Over rolling country in overcast condition, the fast jet is often unable to manoeuvre in the available airspace while maintaining visual contact with the target. This is particularly true of the older designs like MIG 27 and SU-27 Both the A-10 and the SU-25 have long wingspans, enabling them to
 manoeuvre, at moderate speeds in a small radius than a more highly loaded fighter.
   In its basic configuration the SU—25 resembles the Northro YA—9. Like the YA-0, the SU-25 has a short, simple main landing gear and no ventral weapon stations. Like both A—X contenders, the SU—25 has a split wintip speedbrakes. Speedbreakes of this kind have a number of advantages: they are effective, have no effect on trim and cannot effect the stabilizer or rudder. SU—25 is designed for good pilot visibility-while mirror must suffice for the rear quadrant, the high seating position and raised cockpit give a good outlook to the sides, over wings and down over the nose.
   The SU—25, however, is smaller and much faster than the A—10. Its engines are from the opposite end of the design spectrum, its wings are more highly loaded and its range is much shorter. At the root of these differences is the fact that the SU—25 has been designed and developed in the knowledge that the helicopter would be the primary means of providing offensive and defensive close support in the immediate
Jan - Feb 1987
The Mujahideen Monthly
I
 vicinity of troops.
 Battlefield Air Interdiction
    The Soviet armed forces have embraced the attack helicopter with tremendous enthusiasm and it is this vehicle, rather than the SU—25, which is rather effective. But helicopters cannot penetrate more than a few tens of kilometers beyond the forward line of troops. Between the helicopter zone and the area of the fixed targets, such as airfields and critical junctions, lies a region full of high-value mobile targets mainly comprising new forces joining the battle. The SU—25 mission to locate and attack these targets, isolating the battlefield from reinforcement.
    To carry out this mission, the aircraft must penetrate emplaced enemy defences and operate in the enemy-dominated airspace. In the SU—25 specifications, the Soviet military command clearly demanded that as little speed as possible be sacrificed in the interests of manoeuvrability and endurance.
    This is evident in the design of SU—25's wing. Although it has a long span, it has the thinnest practical section and about 15° of sweep and is probably good for combat. The large slab tailplane and other wing features indicate that the aircraft has been designed to operate at speeds where manoeuvring can induce buffet. The long span and moderate sweep probably rule out sustained highspeed for the SU—25 than an aircraft intended for deep penetration strike mission.
 Protection:
    Survivability is basic to the SU-25; the most obvious example is the fact that the SU—25 is the first and only operational Soviet combat aircaraft to have two eigines when one engine could have provided enough thrust. The
 basic configuration also protects the fuel system, the most important part of a combat aircraft. • Most of the fuel is in the centre of the fuselage where it is protected from fragments by the engines and inlet ducts. Also the surrounding structure will detonate an explosive shell before it enters the tank. The fuel tanks have a relatively small surface area in relation to their vulume and can be more easily protected with self-sealing skins and foam, than it is possible with integral wing tanks or saddle tanks wrapped around an inlet duct.
    Armour is visible on the sides of cockpit and is probably used in other critical areas.
 STOL Operation:
    Short takeoff and landing (STOL) performance is achieved by a combination of respectable thrust/weight ratio, effective control for low-speed flight, long wing-span and powerful double-slotted flaps which extended over 2/3 of the trailing edge. The short, robust levered-suspension landing gear is designed for operations from rough pavement or uneven grass, and the fat low-pressure tyres can be used on soft surfaces. All in all, the SU—25 should be able to operate quite normally from 1000m of grass, sod sor roadway. All the basic systems are readily accessible from ground level, facilitating operations away from the main base.
     The importance of STOL capability is that it allows the SU—25 to be despersed to road and feild bases close to the target Because of this and because the aircraft is not intended for deep penetration, it has been possible to optimise the design for a mission radius of only 200—250km, reducing internal fuel capacity, aircraft size and cost. Longer mission can be flown with
 .auxiliary tanks. Forward basing also shortens the response time and increases the sortie rate for the force.
    The SU—25 is a heavily armed aircraft with a superior all-up weapons capability to that of MIG—27. Its fixed armament comprises a single internal gun, mounted in the lower port side of the nose.
 Electronics:
    In the nose of the aircraft is a large glass panel that almost certainly covers a laser rangefinder, probably with a designator function for guided weapons. There could be room for a fixed forward-looking infrared sensor, giving the SU—25 a limited night-attack capability. The SU—25 has the twin nose booms of the SU—17, one carrying prominent mechanical yaw and    pitch   sensors. The aircraft
 has a large   Doppler      antenna, simi-
 lar to that of the MIG—27, beneath the forward fuselage. There is space available for other equipment in the engine nacelles beneath the inlet ducts.
 Antenna and other installations on the     rear  fuselage       suggest  that
 the defensive systems are concentrated in this area. This fact that     the  SU—25          has far  more
  volume for such equipment — which has proved to be extremely important in all recent air battle— than the fast — jet types is an important advantage. Systems currently installed include a radarwarning receiver and probably an active ECM suite.
  A Functional Aircraft:
     The SU—25 can be summarised as a typical Soviet warplane. It is cheap with a simple airframe, weapons and some systems common to the existing aircraft, and two low-cost engines.
The Mujahideen Monthly
Jan - Feb 1987
Refugees who have come to Pakistan after unilateral ceasefire
of Maj'b.
                                                                Continued from 22
 thing. They changed their rupees for Afghanis. But when they realised that Najib’s offers were meredy empty words, they stoppped. Nobody has gone back. Nothing has changed to make them return home. Not a single refugee has returned.
    Q. Do you think the rally was a turning point?
    A. Yes, that is right. Moreover, it proved another point. The pro-Russia element in Pakistan has repeatedly carried out propaganda that these refugees are here to stay for good. That even after the Afghan issue is resolved, they will not go back and pose problems for Pakistan. These same people are now writing in their own newspapers that the refugees have started going home and the Mujahideen are stopping them. I find it surprising how they can carry on with their propaganda when they have been proven wrong Actually, the innocent refugees were mistaken and when they real isect the truth, they themselves abandoned their plan to return. After such sacrifices, how can they surrender themselves to the Najib government? No one has left Pakistan. Not a single person has crossed the border.
    Q. How would you react if Pakistan finds the Najib proposals, and especially a timeframe that is expected to be tabled at Geneva, acceptable?
   A. Pakistan desires a solution to the crisis as soon as possible. But they are insisting on a Russian withdrawal. They want the ground prepared far the return of refugees. They want the cause — the presence of Russian troops — that forced the refugees to migrate, to be removed. The presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan is also a threat to Pak-
 istan. That is why they are demanding the withdrawal of Russian troops. I don't think Pakistan will agree to a solution that does not include the pullout of Soviet troops. If there is an agreement leading to the withdrawabof Russian troops, it would be acceptable to us. The problem will be solved. But if there is a gradual pullout in which the Russians withdraw accor ding to a timetable, then it would mean they have achieved on the negotiating table what they were unable to achieve in the battlefield. And we would not accept this.
    Q. If the Soviets put forth a timetable, say six to twelve months, at the proximity talks for a phased withdrawal and Pakistan finds it acceptable, what would be your reaction?
    A. We would respect any decision by the Pakistan side but we have decided to continue our struggle till the last Soviet soldier remains in Afghanistan. A phased withdrawal is not acceptable to us at all. We have expressed our willingness to
 provide safe passage to Russian troops leaving Afghanistan but will continue our armed struggle against Russian troops present in Afghanistan. This is all we are willing and able to offer. You see. what the Russians aim to achieve through a phased withdrawal is to enable their puppet regime to stay in power, following a cessation of fighting. They will then seek the establishment of a coalition government in which the pro-Russian communists will also be a partner and their opponents will work under their control. Then they will attempt to strengthen this government, so much that its continuation is guaranteed. And when the possibility of destabilising this setup is gone they will withdraw over, what they term, a suitable timeframe. We think such proposals will never be acceptable to our nation as this will amount to a surrender before the enemy.
   Gl Public pressure in favour of a settlement has gathered momentum in Pakistan after the Karachi clashes. where the involvement of
Tite Mujahideen Monthly
27
Jan - Feb 1987
 some Afghan refugees was-Would you like to comment?
   A. Yes, this propaganda has proved another thing to me, and that is that a communist is someone who doesn't believe in anything, Not in rights, not in truth. Anything that serves his purpose is legal and moral and is acceptable to him. I don't know how they have the gall to tell such lies and I don't know how and why the people believe them. A strictly local problem in which not a single Afghan was involved, was given a certain anti-refugee twist. Either purposely or inadvertently some people in the administation also made this mistake by removing the refugees from Sohrab Goth. If it was at all necessary to remove them it should have been done
 either before or after the trouble and pot during it. By doing this they created an impression that the refugees were also involved.
    If believe that some people have done this on purpose. I don't accuse the administration outright, but there are pro-Russian elements everywhere who take advantage of each opportunity that presents itself. But later, the government announced that the Afghans were Innocent and not a single round of ammunition or a single gram of heroin was recovered from them. I don't see how these people can be so cruel and heartless. Rather than ask the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan, they want the refugees removed from Pakistan, their mud houses destroyed so that they are unable to find even a tent. These
 are the same Afghan refugees whose houses were bombarded and their relatives killed by the Russians. They came to Pakistan thinking they were Muslims and would find shelter here. Bu the pro-Russian element here, the communists, who claim to be fighting for liberation, independence and the rights of the oppressed (in Pakistan), want to push the refugees out of Pakistan instead of speaking out for them The refugees are falsely accused of crimes they have not committed. These people want to prepare the ground for serious misunderstanding and clashes between the Afghans and the locals so that the refugees are thrown out I repeat that communists will tell lies and unscrupulously pursue their objectives, They have no shame
 the base next morning along with the Russians, is reported to have said that 350 Russians were either killed or wounded, and 40 tanks, 13 APC, 46 oil tankers, 33 vehicles, four tank carriers, three armoured ammunition carriers, two Zeaguak-equipped vehicles and one multi-berrals rocket launcher (MB-13) were reduced to wreckage.
   The smoke, the source said, kept seeping out of the wreckage for the next day, and the tremendous heat changed the cold atmosphere of the Russian base into a hot summer of lower plateau.
   Besides, the police office building and the Jabul&raj security headquarters were also destroyed in the same operation.
   The very next day the Russians retaliated and bombed the nearby villages and the Mujahideen's strongholds. Within short time scores of houses, which had already been vacated by people at night, were razed to ground. People had taken refuge in the underground caves. However, one Mujahid was martyred in the Soviet bombarment.
Russians’ second biggest base set ablaze
                                                                          By:
                                                                   Gulzar Mashkoor
   The Mujahideen, being true to their tradition, pounced upon the biggest army headquarters in the Parwan province, based in Qalai Surkh, three kilometres to the northwest of Jabulseraj, in a dare-devil fashion, destroying about 140 tanks, APC, trucks, tank carriers, government buildings and ammunition depots and killing or wounding about 350 Russians.
   This took place on the eventful night of 16th January; when the Mujahideen, in response to Kabul’s Machfavelliori-type unitalateral ceasefire, stormed the base. Led by Engineer Tariq of Shafaq Front of Jabulseraj, they used about 200 surface-to-surface rockets, 150 shells of 75mm and 82mm cannons, martors, rocket-propelled grenades (RPG-7) and heavy machineguns.
   Indeed, Tariq had been planning to attack on 3rd January, when Najib announced that the unilateral ceasefire would be implemented from 15th January. The base was
 attacked from all sides and the Russians responded for a short time, but they lost their morale when the rockets hit the oil tankers. The tankers went off one after another and flames were leaping about 150 metres high, ingulfing a vast area.
    The situation worsened when the rockets crashed against the lined-up tanks, APC, army vehicles, and arms and ammunition depots. At the same time one of the Mujahideen group struck at the government offices at Jabulseraj to delink the base from the town.
    As many as 46 oil tankers burst into fire and the whole park took fire. Thing went out of control. The Russian rescue groups rushed from the Bagram airbase and Charikar, capital of Parwan, to help out their man. They air-lefted the soldiers and the casuali-ties to Miana Guazar and Qalai Sahara villages and after the dawn they took them to Jabulseraj town.
    A reliable source, who visited
The Mujahideen Monthly
28
Jan - Feb 1987
 Message of an ex-officer of Red
 Army to the Russian armed forces in Afghanistan

Ivan
    "My message as an exofficer of the Red Army to the Russian soldiers and officers is: you are descendants of those who ridded of Fascism, you should look around yourselves and see what you have brought on to the Afghan people?
    "If you ask this question from any farmer or worker, he would definitely tell you: Death, destruc tion, bloodshed, tears, ■groaning and moaning to kids and women breathing their last under the bombarded houses.
    The Mujahideen of A fghanistan whom you ^people call 'Basmachi' are
       Ob
       Ftpuy: cft>& i

4o

 A e.-or 'i cl &-c. PK* ft A
 f( $:CL- cX-c. C      t^-i  c^J) Serf                          -
 fa                            u-cCk-c. Xt-c. ■/-£-)< >C > C Ot ^cxb~c -
 '3te-*-t- C 4foCcc/ c>r>* tj&a ottm-n'<£-*rc,-vy> l* ~*-ci . P-t-c-t-ot
       e <*-fc *6O-L-t'ATC                         ^            -
 R-LLOveK.LV ^ f C         y                                    —
               Fr € y-Lt.ij , ‘
                     —  C- ^ 3^^- •
                     •3 k'fOO 'T’f       C-*'CL/0C-CXLC>4>.
                     -  &e>~jfOi/te/
 ■ffs(cz-C.-
                     7P/JU w r/JAK^. <^/e-<vZ2 c-c 7 e’ — af&e                                     xj'c  ta            e       .
         /Cr ta£4A-/o TTt^c^jCl                F            g~-C./e} —
 /3  7~C/Oc^ lC.   4*-'*>*
 TO'tG^ipf'/'O ■€-     -PC£l r*. 01- LC^L-jpC& xe.                       -
 r^c./0'yr^>t-<--^CL £-*'*'> jo€--»-&ct-ct*-c-               Jt-iyx-~x^e.v e>*~/
 ■£'yy *-t£- yy-Dr-^c^r. (ftfb-c4X~i4<±*jo4-iyj yt£Ly?c2$A n£. Lcy-jr-pf*#/
                                                                                                                           €*«y yy.
                  (9/V *<=>-«? ^                ~tx*e\
 l^~ -4 •wxtS'ZW &cl>-» ft, ^ i-urtTo fbutt? &
 M&to'Tc                                              'tT/c  rPyotex -
 kk-<L-7c^t.vg, "L/e.      e*eUP<Ji    e*«yc*i**-ci^cl  t*. t./~0 e' r»
       C-ijooiyy ***>Sake*
 iy&~OL tce$~er*-x-4\.c^t-y            ^Lcyi.      C-e^cCZ -r-n &
 t$o„ v-,***- **^*~^>~                                     9tB.,T*>a.
   t^tt-cX.                           (sceJ71x^>'
             ( ^ X~yA- ycOt-4- yce hc&-£4*1 *■ 143 C           yo C t^r-e.
   ^O- coc^ joefecc. t~ai      *^2-                          /'"&-*      -
          C cl-lc        £i£. e^-cyx-Lrt^ e-s           ^cs <s
   &o4e~i** e, *£*>*-- /oe\St>c^o,             u**., n/?-e<zcz_
          c toe>£o4-*i&^c>t*~ V d-0~~Z-&~/a4-£x                      -
   IrK^y rfel^-ertYl-SO-#. Si Sc-c- *>e ^             K-YZ>   *4-^   ^Ck<L
   m^nje-joyt.    e^e£-oGc^e-*c*sc*r                  * S £      jTex>CL*y -
The Mujahideen Monthly
29
 Jan - Feb 1987
Tcu^a?
_______u-------—
^/ Sce.x. JF2>e^fjf-tc>Q e.Vi*~. 3&5v & a-oi^a.
^                                   f  k^^o/ooz^
Pet- ^tsC4rC-t-<-<je~+-r -z-ytx~ yi fOO^-WZczc- -yz^^-tYXc^u- x
£T)00^-^ totz^e^i*cyc>7~^/?0& k- <7ex-t-Y/c-c>-^
£- LAXj£-fO j fy. ^ LaS7)-&. ZsCzX- tXZ^Z-
Q^ ?6t^
3   L*J*) 0-Z-C-<^ isC-C^&OS
KLo7~0/3£y-6- /3^3 -** /-^ zc-EXzy^<^5^
                      7 3&- t-c Vc-t- 7 -G- O
  controlling over 80 per cent of the countryside. This shows that they are supported by all of their countrymen. This is a fact that people always support those who have a place in their hearts. Quite evident when people reject Najib and other agents of the Kremlin it should be realized that people totally reject the installed regime once and for all.
     The people of Afgha-nistan do not believe in mere words of 'peace and
*^ex.-
        c-cA                        -~e-<y
hCt.                                     Kt
k^OKZ.C?/CXX-£. CZ- 5lp£-eV/i
               Vo
JOt
^7e7^

C<s
 ■£./ 0
 reconciliation. But they - ft               ./                                     *       ^    ^                        .
 practically want to see                                         '                       -           ->       , -
  peace which is only possible if our army gets out.
  It should be kept in mind that Afghanistan is an Islamic country and shoula not be taken for as any European country. The culture and tradition of these fiercely independent people are different from those in Europe. In the past seven years of occupation. in spite of systematic efforts nobody could change the culture and mentality, of these people.
      You should look at your history how our fathers and mothers resisted the fascist Germans, the same way these Afghans resent our Army in their country.
      The Radio, TV and Press in the USSR always speak of the Palestinian refugees and show films about them on the TV but they are ignoring the five millions Afghan refugees scattered in Iran and Pakistan.
      These refugees do not own homes in their host re,n are, crv'n9 out gainst countries and their child-
ycOt)                       eftS
ChCZ-Z- £7&-joy /** e*£ J5 0-       .  H'X-kH o   rcO —
~l*S7 ocScl &a’76>tA & e^ropo^sL c£~ £~op>*, <5V fie*
©7 {^l£LiX«L Q)o                              & -l^or><X.
G ~uC>pOC^Pcyf t LsC^-e t^Ou w-cQ.,
      -e.             30. OcoccA-tci^
Wo &CC C-U-di &9e-r-OS. xzx-^joo^OT                       0^0.
X-ZX-J fJz'ct&cO ZCJ &CXC 4-tS h          ?-*2/-$ L-CJ? 7cx
Of0€-i-c0i.m jTefc)y t^c^x^fS)-C 0 x J
'Wto d/iflv’w- ?-£ Szzv %^c£Lyi^je./ne,z. 'ci/ViV-zZL -
S tfefe'C€Lt-c<x.e. wa^£ 330- “t-7o o*s W-'iC j fX cv-^cz.CLcz 3                          <? W&      -
 €1^0
*ryi-zx- X.&. 7 ft?Oi*-c- C h.
                                                                                                                                                                                  c<
                                                                                                                                                                                    -
Kuc> UL4J2. fOJt    ' t-c. 's ^ f «£> TOc^-z •£-
       C-Vau/c>cz-z<c£7^     ?£ z^,            -
t-zzy L^-yz3~^o~tC.czuyy p^ye-c-                 7
t^t-+Z-0 V~
3^0
Acf2Z&~t-<xXrO-T7&^l^C£t 7             *-eyy-?^K£i- -5»7 Ck
Soci'K^X. ?/                  1 4-drh K0LC> ^>VCC
So An              . 13p^£l-c<St €-
                                                                                          'ip*- /f■
the cold and heat of the still they prefer to stay in here as they do not hear deserts they live in. But these miserable conditions the whizzing of aircraft
The Mujahideen Monthly
30
Jan - Feb 1987
    and booming cf guns that cause death and destruct ion. Do you know about the refugees hospitals filled with the Afghan kids, women and the elederly people?
       Do you know about the toddlers whose legs have been blow up by the mines? If you visit these hospi tats you will see the bemoaning mothecs whose dear kids have been either killed or wounded by the bombing and shelling you resort to indiscriminately
       The Afghans have ah ways spumed opperssion and that is why they have taken up arms against you You should think why do you kill people and what for?
       Each one of you has his belbved ones. If you are skilled in Afghanistan, which is thousands of kilo-rpetres away from your motherland, just think about them. How will you reason out the grief of a mother, whose son has been killed in Afghanistan? What will you tel your relativesmabout Af ghanistan? You will not he able to say anything ex cept massacring innocent peopleo destroying their houses and villages, and burying children and women alive.
       How long should the Russian mothers shed rears?
       You should sit ansi think very coolly on these questions. If you can do nothing you can join the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen will guarantee your life and welfare. Please stop shedding the blood of innocent people.
Brigadier killed
    On March 4th the. Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan (HIA), under the command of Ustad Fateh Mohammad, attacked five Russian-Afghan posts around the Bagram airbase, the biggest in Afghanistan and located about 60 kilometres to the north of Kabul. They wiped out four posts and killed several troops.
    During an attack on the fifth post a Russian-made SU-24 plane, while bombing the Mujahideen positions, was short down by the Mu-lahideen with the Zeaguak, a 14.5 mm anti-aircraftgun. The plane wreckage was strewn away near Dosaraka. seven kilometres to the west of Bagram airbase on the Kabul Salang highway. One of the two crew of the plane came down by parachute, who was of the Brigadier rank, but killed by Mujahideen for the fear of that rescue group might reach and probably they would save him. His co-pilot were killed when the plane blown up at
 the air.
    Later the Mujahideen learned from the documents discovered from the pockets of the Brigadier that he was, frqm ttje Ea^t per
 9'apy
    After the incident six helicopters took off from the Bagram airbase. One of them landed at the area where SU-24 fell down and the thrpe started hovering very low while the last two were flying in a big circle. The Mujahideen hit the first one on the ground with the rocket propelled grenade (RPG-7) and it exploded up along with the pilots.
    At the same time the Mujahideen fired several rockets of RPG-7 on the other three helicopters and were able to hit one of them. However, the helicopter managed jo reach the vicinity of the Bagrarri airbase. Yet it went out of control and crushed with a government
                                                                    Continued on Page 37
Parachute and Kalashinkov of the Pilot
The Mujahideen Monthly
31
Jan - Feb 1987
Afghan children, condemning the 7th anniversar of Russian invasion of Afghanistan in Islamabad
 lateral ceasefire, Islam as state religion, national reconciliation and general amensty for all Afghans outside the country including the Mujahideen leaders. This is indeed a device to coax the Afghan nation into submission. Yet the Afghan Mujahideen leaders have a common stand and they have declared that they would never share power with communists in Kabul. Instead they floated the idea of an interim government in order to take care of free and fair election as a prelude to establishing an Islamic regime in Afghanistan.
 PROTEST STRIKE
   Reports from Qanoahar say that after the announcement of the so-called ceasefire the Mujahideen controlling most of the city, called a protest on January 15 which was a complete success. Another interesting report has also trickled down to us, saying that 20 buses were seen containing what police described as village militiamen from different regions. Later the same men were presented on Kabul TV as the Mujahideen who had offered to lay down arms.
   One Asian official has observed
 that Gorbachev does want to end the Afghan war but he does not want to be branded as the one who lost it. He wants to maintain Superpower prestige and dictate the Kremlin terms to end the war. He faces a dilemma which accounts for the latest burst of diplomacy. Yet the Mujahideen say that accepting national reconciliation on Moscow-Kabul terms means an ignominous surrender.
    Lately, the Russians have- concentrated on the Mujahideen routes: Parachinar and Mirari Shah are two important routes which link up about 17 provinces, Chitral, Spinbuldak in Qandahar and Islam Qala in Herat.
    The undaunted Mujahideen have also stepped up their activities. Recently they have killed two puppet regime agents working under the cover of national reconciliation. One was killed in the Qundus province in northern Afghanistan bordering the Soviet Union, and the other, namely, Inayatullah, was killed with his son in Ningarhar province.
    Apart from it, the car bomb explosion in Kabul near the Indian embassy, killing 4 and injuring 23 and causing damages to the
 buildings and the car bomb explosion in Jalalabad, killing more than 30 people, speak about the Mujahideen activities right in the centre of enemy positions.
   Gerosimov, an official of the Soviet Foreign Ministry said that there were 378 violations since the ceasefire was declared by Kabul on January 15. But Mr. Shevardnadze said in East Berlin there were about 500 ceasefire violations.
 MOSCOW INSINCERE
   There exists a strong evidence that the Russians' dependability is doubtful in announcing a unilateral ceasefire through their agent, Najib. Confirmed reports indicate that the daily shooting down of aircraft averages as one. The March report of Parwan indicates that in one single incidence one Su-24 and four helicopters were either shot or destroyed at Bagram.
   Recently the Mujahideen destroyed five jets and nine helicopters at Qandahar airport. In the Khost incident,as reported by Mujahideen-sources, 15 Afghan army officers, 22 soldiers and six crew men were
The Mujahideen Monthly
33
Jan - Feb 1987
 leader of the Hezb-e-Islamic group with which I was going to travel into Afghanistan, is annoyed that the war has been portrayed as
 swinging in favour of the Russians this year.
    Hekmatyar said: "The resistance is now in a better position than any time before. We are stronger and better-organised and it is false to say that the Russians have made any advances. Irv the last seven months of this year the activity of the Mujahideen was higher than for the whole of 1985. It's correct that we are facing more difficulties than before but that does not mean that resistance has weakened. The situ ation is completely in favour of the-Mujahideen."
    Hekmatyar thought that Western governments should take every diplomatic opportunity to criticise the Russians for their military adventure in Afghanistan but also to take practical steps to aid the resistance. One of these, he suggested, should t?e to order out the Kabul-appoint ed diplomats from Afghan, embassies around the world and hand the buildings over to the Mu-
“Soviets can only destroy
not control”
A report of a Western Journalist who visited Afghanistan and his name is withheld for security reasons.
    I embarked on my first journey to Afghanistan in six years with some trepidation because of Press reports throughout the year that the Afghan Mujahideen fighting the Soviet invaders and the Communist government in Kabul had been taking a hammering and, according to some articles, were practically on the point of collapse.
    There had been grim tales of the insurgents being wiped out in their strongholds by Soviet helicopter and by air attacks. Soviet elite 'Spetnatz' commandoes were supposed to have made striking successes, punishing the Mujahideen with swift and deadly surprise attacks and succeeding in cutting the guerillas’ supply lines in a bid to starve them of food and weapons.
    The Russians were even supposedly withdrawing six regiments of men because their pacification of the country was so successful that they were presumably no longer needed. Pakistani and western intelligence sources, as well as an Afghan army general who defected to the Mujahideen in October, said that the Russians had poured troops into the country before their well-publicised "withdrawal" in the autumn.
    But even before leaving Peshawar in October for the journey west to Parachinar in the tribal homelands of Pakistan and hence to Afghanistan, I found encour-
 aging signs. Peshawar has, since the beginning of the conflict been, the headquarters for the various Muja> hideen groups fighting the Russians, Six years ago there had been considerably disunanimity between the groups, which even sometimes extended to the fighting groups within Afghanistan. Now there seemed to be healthy cooperation between the seven largest of the Islamic groups who try to co-ordinate a strategy for the struggle within Afghanistan.
                                                                                                                           Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar,
The Mujahideen Monthly
35
Jan - Feb 1987
 forced to carry weeks and weeks of food supplies with them on long expeditions. Any extra weight to be carried in the gruelling mountain ous terrain that the guerillas operate over is an unwelcome burden but the Mujahideen shoulder the supplies with the same stoicism that they jesign themselves to the other hardships that accompany being a fighter who relies just as much on faith as modern equipment for waging his struggle.
    But discipline and organisation have undeniably improved and several of the Mujahideen groups as well as Hezb-i Islami, the largest of groups, have permanent bases protected by anti-aircraft batteries near the Afghan-Pakistan border.
    Although food was scarce the guerillas seemed satisfied with their weapons. The ubiquitous AK47 Kalashnikov automatic rifle is the standard tool of both sides in the conflict and most groups have RPG 7 rocket propelled grenade launchers, designed for use against armoured vehicles. Both the weapons are of Soviet orgin but have also been manufactured for many years by the USSR's satellite states and Chjna.
    Those villages which are still inhabited are controlled by the Mujahideen with the wholehearted support of their populations. Detractors would say that those opposed to the Mujahideen had been destroyed but there is little evidence to sustain that argument. The Mujahi deen try to provide a structure for as near a normal life as possible within the “liberated areas" with a locally-elected political commander in overall charge
    He not only supervises the military operations through his fighting commanders but all other aspects of life, establishing medical and education facilities for villagers and organising life on strictly Islamic lines.
    Moral among the Mujahideen seemed genuinely high and the
 leadei of our group, Gulab Gul said.' "After seven years the Russians still connot control the countryside, they can only destroy it. They control only parts of the cities and when their convoys come out we destroy them."
    To prove his point, Culab bul took us to the area of Hassan Khel in the north west of Paktia province where his group had attacked a joint Afghan-Soviet convoy three weeks before A snake-like column of 35 tanks, armoured personnel carries and lorries, many brand new, had been destroyed by mines a'nd rockets as they attempted to cross a river. Gulab Gul said three hundred soldiers had died in the attack. Nearby, a Soviet MI-8 gun-ship helicopter had been downed by an RPG 7 rocket fired from a hill, Gulab Gul said proudly: “We do not need Stingers, we are very inventive and we now have experts who can use the RPG. The Russians will never win because if there is only one Afghan left, he will be fighting themf
    Later, as we rested in a bombed and deserted village, a flight of eight helicopters flew low overhead. The Mujahideen aimed an RPG 7. fired and missed. The helicopters sped away, spewing out flares to misguide any heat-seeking missiles that might be fired at them. About an hour after we left the village, the helicopters returned and bombed the ruins
    The Afghans, ''inventive” but not always accurate, seem capable, despite the Soviet claims of break-
 throughs, of maintaining indefinitely the present level of attrition. The idea of Islam and a Jihad has consolidated its hold on the national consciousness and seems to make up inspiritual strength what the Muslim deen lack elsewhere.
   Brigadier killed
                                                          Continued from 31
 building.. The flames and smoke could be seen billowing up. It was reported later that the crew were seriously wounded and the building of the airbase was damaged, apart from the injuries caused to the airbase staff,
    In retaliation the Bagram artillery units and aircraft bombed the Mujahideen strongholds and the nearby villages for several hour. Scores of innocent civilians were wounded and three Mujahideen martyred. Many houses were razed to ground and the Russians also smashed the vacated houses, thinking that the Mujahideen could be hiding there.
   On March 10th a village boy was reported that had found the head of a Russian, believed to be the head of the co-pilot of SU-24 in the bushes. He ran up to his father and whispered something in his eai. His father laughed by the burial of the head and asked the Mujahideen to listen to his son. The boy told them that he saw the head lying in the bushes. When he approached closer he found that his teath was glittering which he (boy) thought to be made of gold so he buried it.
The Mujahideen Monthly
37
 ;jlqn - Fe{f 1987
    By f Speen
                     A testimony of a defectee of the Kabul army
    "We had two posts in Espendi, five kilometres southwest of Ghazni on the Kabul-Qandahar highway. One of the two posts belong to KHAD (government intelligence) and the other to Sarandoy (police force). We were equipped with three tanks, one four barrels ZU-23, known as Shilka, four heavy machineguns, one 82mm cannon, and 45-kalashinkov". said a defectee of the Afghan army who did not want to disclose his name for the security reasons.
    "During the day time we checked civilians cars, trucks, and buses on the highway and from late afternoon on wards we watched the Mujahideen's movements, particularly trying to prevent them from entering the city for anti-government activities", he added.
    When I asked him what made him detect, he narrated that on the night of December 14 they were expecting the Mujahideen's attacks as usual. All 50 men were present on duty. They were scared that the Mujahideen would again make a nocturnal raid. The previous night the government troops suffered losses not exactly known to him. But the defectee could guess from the face of an angry Russian officer.
    "Night was calm, cold and starry and we were watchful and raised our ears on any sound being afraid of the Mujahideen's movement. Suddenly the silence was broken by the rumbling tanks coming out from division No. 14 of Ghazni. For us the noise was not strange and we thought that the Russians or Afghan tanks might have got a word on the Mujahideen caravan. They could ambush any time,'1' the defectee
The Mujahideen Monthly
 mind to join the Mujahideen. They contacted the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan and Hara-kat-i-Inqilab Islami Afghanistan. The Mujahideen offered 1,200,000 Afghan currency for their surrender with arms and ammunitions. The defectee said that he and his friends could not discuss the matter with all the people in the posts so he suggested a surprise attack.                ,
    On December 18 the two Mujahideen groups jointly launched an attack and after two hours fighting, helped by the defected soldiers they took over both posts. During the fight five officers, who had been posted just four days before, were killed and 12 soldiers were arrested alive, including three defec-tees.
    About 20 soldiers succeeded in defecting and left everything behind. The Mujahideen captured one four barrels ZU-23 (Shilka), four heavy machineguns, one 82mm cannon, 25 Kalashinkovs with 60 boxes of rounds and three tanks. The defectee added that it was difficult for the Mujahideen to ^jrive the tanks to a safe place, so they put mines with electric fuse and exploded all the three
 said.
    After a few minutes the tanks reached their posts and encircled them A senior Russians officer came out of a tank and called the commanders of the posts roaringly. He was talking about last night’s incident in which two senior officers were killed by the Mujahideen inside the city. The Russian officer accused the Afghan army officers of not doing their job properly.
    The defectee said that the Russian officer was arguing that the Mujahideen had entered the city from the western side and after completing the operation they took back the same route. Yet the Afghan commanders denied the allegation of being sympathetic to the Mujahideen.
    The defectee added that at the end the Russian officer asked four Afghan officers and one soldier to accompany him. The Afghan officers went away with him and they did not turn up till next morning. Both the posts reported to their headquarters in the city about the incident.
    Around lO'OO a.m. two groupk; one from KHAD and the other from Sarandoy, came to find the whereabouts of their men. After making an inquiry they followed the trail of tanks. Going about one kilometre from the post to the east, they found all five stabbed and bayoneted by the Russians last night for avenging the killing of their officers at the hands of the Mujahideen.
    "I feared that one day I would also meet the same fate", the defectee said. He shared this apprehension with his trustworthy colleagues and we made up our
                                                       Jan - Feb 1987 39
men returned to their village and informed the Pul-i-Khumari autho l ity and the Afghan army headquarters about the incident. The news spreaded in the town and people came to the streets, They raised anti-Soviet slogans and asked for the withdrawal of the Russian troops.
                                                                                                                                  The Pul-i-Khumri authority and
the army failed to calm down the people. The rally was still in its full swing when the Russians reached the spot with their tanks and exchanged hot words with the Afghan army officers about the protest rally. When the Russian officer was shouting on the Afghan army officer, an Afghan soldier opened fire on the Russian officer.
                                                                                                                                            The officer* along with four
 Russian soldiers, were killed and in retaliation ten Afghan soldiers were killed by the Russians. Later the Russians controlled the situation and warned the crowd to disperse away. Several tanks were also parked in different part of the city. And the Highway was closed for few days both for the civilian and Afghan army transport.
4|
The Mujahideen Monthly
Jan rt,Feb 1981
 HERAT PROVINCE:
   On Dec. 24 the enemy troops attacked the Mujahideen positions in western section of Herat city. Mujahideen resisted strongly and killed 30 Russians, 25 commandos and destroyed 4 tanks completely. Thirty Kalashinkov were seized. On the Mujahideen side three were martyred and 14 wounded.
   In another operation the following day the Mujahideen repulsed the enemy troops inflicting considerable losses on them. In the attack about 60 Russian-Afghan troops were killed and 11 made captive. A jeep was destroyed and 20 Kalashinkovs were seized. Two Mujahideen were martyred and 13 wounded.
 PARWAN PROVINCE
   The Mujahideen of HIA under the command of Ustad Fateh Mohammad are reported to have shot down a Mig-23 on Jan. 14th. The Afghan pilot Naqibullah s/o of Bismelah from Logar, was arrested alive, while the co-pilot was killed.
 WARDAK PROVINCE
   The Wahdat Front in Maidan city indicate that the HIA Mujahideen repeatedly attacked the enemy posts at the end of December last, killing 15 militiamen and destroying two truck loads of food stuff.
   In another operation the HIA Mujahideen killed a KHAD official on Jan 4 in Maidan city.
   Later in a series of attacks on the enemy posts on Jan 15 they killed six officers.
   In another operation on Janu-
 ary 18, five Soviet-Afghan troops were killed and many others were wounded. The Mujahideen also killed 14 Soviet-Afghan troops, wounded three others, destroyed the KHAD building and the enemy pitches and made captive a KHAD agent. In this operation one Muja-hid was martyred and 14 other were wounded. This operation was performed on Jan 19.
 HERAT PROVINCE
    Commander Khalifa Subhan reports from the Gulran district that the HIA Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts on Jan. 19 in Chah-i-Shirin region, close to the Soviet-Afghan-Iran border, causing them heavy losses. Also 12 Afghan soldiers were made captive and 13 Kalashinkovs and one machine-gun were seized.
    In another operation on the Gulran airport the following day, 8 RPG-7 and a machinegun were seized and 13 militiamen killed.
    Commander Khalifa Subhan, in a joint operation with the Mujahideen of Jamiat Islami, launched seiers of attacks on the enemy posts in Islam Qala, Paterpul and Qadusabad on Feb. 4th and caused considerable losses to the enemy. A tank and two army trucks were
 destroyed and their occupants killed. A great number of Afghan soldiers and militiamen were killed or wounded, On the Mujahideen side 30 were martyred.
    In another operation the HIA Mujahideen, under the Command of Khalifa Subhan, attacked the enemy posts in Gulran district, wiped out Habib post and captured 21 Kalashinkovs. Six Afghan soldiers and militiamen were made captive. Four Afghan officer joined
 the ranks of the Mujahideen with their arms.
 ZABUL PROVINCE
 Commander Shafiqullah of Qalat central Front attacked Qalat, provincial headquarter on 3rd week of January and killed 15 Afghan army officers and soldiers. One government post and a 76mm cannon was destroyed and the occupant of the post were killed.
    The following are reports of Mujahideen operations in different provinces of Afghanistan:
 KABUL:
    On Jan 15 a helicopter was shot down in Tangi Abrishem, Sarobi district.
    On Jan 16 two helicopters were shot down in the vicinity of Kabul City.
    On Jan 26 a SU-25 was shot down in Jekdalak, Sarobi district.
 NENGARHAR:
    On Jan 16 a trasnport army plane and a helicopter were destroyed at the Jalaabad airport.
    On Jan 20 a jet was shot down in the Ghani Khail district.
    On Jan 22 a jet was shot down in the Daroonta region and a helicopter was shot down near Jalalabad City.
    Jan 31, a helicopter was shot down at Daroonta Dam, 8 kilometers from Jalalabad City.
 GHAZNI'
    During the 3rd week of-January two helicopters were shot down close to Ghazni City.
The Mujahideen Monthly
42
Jan — Feb 1987
    On Jan 15 a helicopter was shot down near the Ghazni airport. PERWAN:
   On Jan 22 a jet was shot down in Cbarkar, provincial center. QUNDUZ:
 A jet was shot down in the 3rd week of January.
                                                                                                                                     QANDHAR:
   On Jan 15 two helicopters were shot down near Qandahar City.
   On Jan 15 three jets were hit and were destroyed at Qandahar Airport.
   On Jan 20 a helicopter was shot down near the city, another one was shot down in Kajaki.
   On Jan 22 a MIG 17 and a MIG 21 were shot down in Dar-wanda.
   On Jan 23 a helicopter was shot near Qandahar City. HELMAND:
   On Jan 24 a jet was shot down. LAGHMAN:
   On Jan 27 a jet was shot down in the Turnau mountain.
   JOZJAN:
   On Jan 25 a MIG 17 was shot down close to Jozjan City. NINGARHAR PROVINCE:
   The Mujahideen unitedly attac-ed the Goshta battalion on Jan 21st killing five militiamen and wounding 10 soldiers. And they returned safely.
                                                                                                                            WARDAK PROVINCE:
   The HIA Mujahideen attacked government posts in Maidan Shar, capital of Wardak province on Jan 11, As a result 25 soldiers were killed and many others wounded, while a number of Khad was captured and government buildings were damaged too. One Mujahid was martyred and 10 others were injured in the offensive.
  SMANGAN PROVINCE:
                                                                                                                 The HIA Mujahideen led by Qazi Atef, attacked militia posts in Dasht-
i-Farma on Jan 16. As a result several militiamen were killed, and two were arrested. The Mujahideen returned safely to their headquarters.
BALKH PROVINCE:
   The Mujahideen jointly attacked seven army posts in the Chemtal district on Dec 23 last killing 10 soldiers and destroying the posts. The soldiers fled to the district headquarters, and the Mujahideen seized two Klashnikovs. In this joint operation one Mujahid was martyred.
BAGHLAN PROVINCE
   The HIA Mujahideen led by Engineer Saleem attacked the Deh-salah, Arzangan and Kharpushta posts on Jan 2. As a result 50 Klashnikovs, 12 Carabine rifles one PK heavy machinegun, 100 army uniforms, 200 blankets, 20 boxes of bullets and one wireless set were captured by them while they returned safely.
KABUL PROVINCE:
   In the first week of Jan. the HIA urban guerillas in a daytime raid fired two 107mm rockets on the building of Soviet Cultural House, located on Dehmazang-Durulaman road, seven kilometers to the south-west of the Presidential Palace. The rockets were fired when an important meeting was going on in the building. The report says that the building was badly damaged an$ people inside the building were mostly injured or killed.
   On December 26 the Mujahideen HIA shot down a transport plane which was on its way to Khost, the second important town of Paktia. The plane fell down in the Charas-yab region 25 kilometres to the south of the city centre.
   On December 27 a reconnaissance TU plane was heading toward Kabul. The Mujahideen of HIA shot down the aircraft when
 she was hovering over the sky of Khoshi of Logar for spying on Mujahideen. The plane fell down in Khoshi. The crew were killed when the plane crushed
    Around 3:00 p.m. two gunship helicopters came to search for the wreckage of the plane at Khoshi area. The Mujahideen shot down the helicopter with RPG-7 when it came down to the wreckage of the plane. The helicopter took off and tried to land in a safe place. Later the helicopter went out of the control and fell down in Dobandi, Azro district of Logar province. The crew were killed.
    The enemy launched a serious attackes on Qata Beland, Turkman, Qalander Khail, Tokhchi, Chaikal, Mohammad Zaee, Qalai Bayseed. Sofeyan and Doulet Shahe villages of Parwan between Bagram and Dosaraka from Dec. 13 till 26. The Mujahideen repulsed the attacks and raided tbe Bagram airbase twice and also Senjed Darah, and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Nine aircraft were destroyed at the Bagram airbase. 12 tanks, and 19 army trucks were destroyed and their occupants were either killed or wounded. In addition to that, about 200 Soviet-Afghan troops were either killed or wounded. The residential block of the Russians in Senhjed Drah and the workshop of the aircraft at the Bagram airbase were partly damaged. Two families of Russian and Afghan army officers were killed. On the Mujahideen side 25 were martyred and 15 wounded.
    On Dec. 27th .38 Russians were killed. 4 tanks dhd 6 army trucks destroyed in Qalai Surkh. In the same attack Russians military traffic directorate of the Qalai Surkh army base was destroyed.
    Another report indicates that due to the enemy shelling on Deh Baba Ali in Kapisa on Dec. 27th 30 innocent civilians were killed and wounded.
The Mujahideen Monthly
43
Jan - Feb 1987

Zailubadreen s/o Abdul Vi/ahab
Shaheed Mohammad s/o Mohammad Naseem
Shaheed Sakhi Mohammad s/o Abdul Ghani
Shaheed Eng. Aludin s/o Abdul Smad
Shaheed Mohammad Azam Khan s/o Manssor
Shaheed Shamsul Rahman s/o Mohammad Azam Khan
Shaheed Ikramudin s/o Mohammad Azam Khan
Shaheed Commander Mohammad Naim s/o Mohammad Khan.
Shaheed Mohammad Naim s/o Mohammad Naseem
The Mujahideen Monthly
45
Jan - Feb i987
 9  ?■'
“ACKU
                          ----\___                                   
Send your donation to the Mujahideen on the following bank account.  
                  BANKING ADDRESS,                                   
Hezbi Islami Afghanistan. Hezbi Islami Afghanistan.                  
HABIB BANK LIMITED        HABIB BANK LIMITED                         
City Branch Peshawar      Cantt Branch Peshawar                      
Rs. A/c. No. 18092---8    A/C. No. FccD 50                           
Rupees .                  Foreign Currency                           

 Send your subscription on the above bank account and notify us through a photo copy of the cheque on our mailing address:
                                                                                                                                      The Mujahideen Monthly G.P.O, 255 Peshawar, Pakistan
J
The Mujahideen Monthly
46
Jan - Feb 19$7
d 0
 *1
 H
 k
 SI
 §
 i
 M
 In
 M
 M
 k
 1


jHi
-I
 |
 n
 |
 i
 £
 I
 k
 •Hi
 H
 ts
 (Mi
 k
 k
 k
 H
 k
 k
 k
 k
Fight them, that Allah may punish them at your hands, and humiliate them and help you to victory over them,
and relieve the minds of a people who believe.
                  Al-Taubah-14
 M
 x>
 w
 v
 >y
 vy
 v/
 v
 3
 w
 vy
 vy
 W
 v/
 8
 8
 M
 v/
 v/
 w
 IK
 V/
 vy
 k
 vy
 B
 M
 vy
 vy
 vy
 k
 1
 Jf
 vy
 i
 P
 P

MUJAHIDEEN
Monthly
“We believe that the continuation of our armed struggle will ultimately force the aggressive Russians to vacate our country unconditionally. We believe in the definite victory of the Jehad of our Muslim nation and have no doubts about it. The situation of Jehad has been, after eight years and
                                                                                  eight months, better than any year before”.
                                                                                           Eng. Hekmatyar— 8 January 1987
ar Sttking «n Seat For een •
Dr. Wall, A Commander Whose Feats will be Remembered for Gaod-J            JM
The Plight of tho Soviet Trained Spltznatx (Commandos) In Khost
 EXPLOSION J WHICH ^ SHOOK KABUL
GENEVA-6
AHDMH RELIEF.
  ft#
Monthly