 Prof. Rabbani discusses future
plans with Iran-based parties
       THE Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance has led a delegation to Iran to hold talks with the Iranian leaders and to discuss the issues regarding Jehad with the Mujahideen parties based in Iran.
       Prof. Rabbani left Islamabad for Tehran (Hi 24 December. He held talks with President Khanmenia on December 26 and briefed him on Taif i talks and discussed with him the latest situation in Afghanistan.
       President Khamenia said that Iran's support for the rightful resistance of Afghan people would continue.
       Earlier, Prof. Rabbani held similar j ialks with Prime Minister Mir Husain ' Moosavi and Foreign Minister Welayati who expressed support for the people of Afghanistan in their struggle for freedom.
I
    The Mujahideen leader also will meet the heads of the Mujahideen parties based in Iran and will discuss with them the issues relating to Jehad. He will try to unify the positions of the Mujahideen regarding the talks with the Soviets.
    Prof. Rabbani will inform these leaders about the Taif talks and will seek their support for the next rounds of talks which will be held in Islamabad.
    Eight Shia parties based in ban have formed an Alliance. These parties ’ wore critical of the Taif talks because they were not involved in them and were not consulted either.
    After the Taif talks, the Soviets proposed to hold similar talks with the Alliance based in Iran but so far the proposal has not been accepted.
    Prof. Rabbani will try to convince the Mujahideen Alliance in Iran that separate talks with the Soviets will weaken the position of the Mujahideen.
    A possible solution is inclusion of the representative of the Iran-based parties in the delegation which will participates in the talks with the Soviets.
     Shaikh Asif Mohsini a leader of Iran-based alliance has said that separate talks with the Soviets is harmful to the cause of the Mujahideen.
     He criticized the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar for not consulting him before going to Taif.
     The alliance of the Mujahideen in Iran consists of Shia groups coming
  from the central part of Afghanistan. They are representing a minority of the population in Afghanistan and compared to the Mujahideen parties in Pakistan are weaker in military strength.
      An estimated 1.5 million Afghan refugees live in Iran.
Taif talks moral victory for Mujahideen
    THE Alliance leader stated that Taif talks between the Mujahideen and Soviets represent a moral victory for the cause of Afghans.
    Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen and the head of the Muajahideen delegation to Taif, addressed a press conference on December 18 in Islamabad. Prof. Rabbani said he hoped the Soviets will come with new proposals in the next round of talks in Islamabad.
    The Mujahideen leader said he asked the Soviets to withdraw their troops before February 15 and to stop
 Regime's diplomat defects
    THE first secretary of the Kabul regime embassy in North Korea has defected to the West.
    Mohammad Mansoor Tahiri, who had been an official of the foreign ministry of Afghanistan for 24 years, said to the reporters in New Delhi that he has
      ►v
 registered with the UN as a refugee. Earlier the puppet foreign minister of the regime and one of its officials in trie UN asked for asylum in the US.
  offensive attacks against the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen delegation also demanded compensation for the destruction the Soviets have inflicted on Afghanistan and the cutting of all forms of support to the communist regime in Kabul. The Mujahideen asked the Soviets to remove the Scud missiles andMig-27 which they have introduced recently.
      Prof. Rabbani said he asked the Soviets to recognize the government of Mujahideen and to guarantee noninterference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan in the future.
      The Mujahideen delegation demanded the release of prisoners of war and the return of the Afghan children taken to the Soviet Union for brain-washing.
       When the Soviet delegation was in Taif Prof. Rabbani said that their forces escalated the war. The heavy bombing of Badakhshan and sending troops to Kandahar were two examples of such aggressive actions.
      The chairman of the Alliance criticized the Soviets' attempt to talk separately with the Mujahideen parties in Iran and called it an attempt to divide the Mujahideen. He said while the Alliance is in favor of the participation of the Iran-based parties in the negotiations, there should be one sole delegation of the Mujahideen. Separate talks .weaken the position of the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews
Vol 5, * No 1, January 1,1989, page 2
N
called Kor-i-Mali.
    News
From the battlefields
 v - — —
                                                     Kabul province
    Kabul-Jalalabad road has been blocked by the Mujahideenfrom Jami'at since December 1 and the repeated attempts by the communist forces to open the road has failed.
    An attack to open the road was repulsed after the enemy lost two tanks on December 18.
    Kabul-Jalalabad road was blocked by the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mohammad Anwer on December 1.
    Until December 20, the enemy had lost 25 tanks and eight trucks. In Twenty days of fighting 80 enemy soldiers were killed and 200 others were captured. The Mujahideen lost five men and 25 Mujahideen were Injured.
    On December 23, three tanks and four trucks of the enemy were set on fire in Tangi-Abraishomi. Twelve enemy soldiers were killed in the incident and the Mujahideen captured two Kalashinkov rifles.
    Six police men were killed and nine were injured when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets on their positions in Soroobi district. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries.
    When a group of enemy helicopters were trying to take supplies to the besieged city of Jalalabad, they come under the Mujahideen's attack. The helicopters were flying under the cover of darkness at a low altitude. One of them was hit by an RPG-7 rocket and fell in Tangi Abraishomi.
    On the same day two tanks and one truck of the enemy were hit by Milan rockets fired by the Mujahideen.
                                                                                                       Takhar province
    The Mujahideen captured the stronghold of the Setami Milli (National Depression Party) faction near Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar on December 23.
     The attack which was launched jointly by the Mujahideen from Jami'at, Harakat-e-lnqilab, Hezb Islami (Khalis group) started at 6 a.m and by the nightfall the stronghold of enemy situated in Qazaq came under control of the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen lost ten men but the enemy casualty was much heavy. In the afternoon of the same day the Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar group) also participated in the operation. .
     The enemy force, which is estimated at 400, is besieged in Bagh-e-Zakhira near Taleqan. The operation was launched under the command of Dr. Sayed Husain, a member of the Supervisory Council of the North.
     Setam Milli is a faction of the communist party which separated from the People Democratic Party long time ago. This faction got influence in the North by emphasizing the rights of non-pushtoon nationalities. During Daud's time the party split into two parts and radical faction head by Bahruddin Baais was responsible for killing the US Ambassador, Mr. Dubs in 1978.
     This faction also launched an armed attack against the Taraki regime in Badakhshan in 1978 but were defeated. The party adopted a flexible tactic. Where and when it was possible, its members organized fronts and posed as Mujahideen. A great number of them also started to cooperate with regime and the Soviets. Soviets gave the party a friendly hand. In the Northern provinces this parly provided most of the officials and the militia men for the defense of the cities and towns controlled by the regime.
     Due to differences between the Mujahideen, this party not only survived in Takhar but started to pose a serious threat to the Mujahideen. When Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, was liberated some of the government forces were protected by one of the the commanders of Setam Mili,
    When the Soviets allowed other communist factions to have political activities, this party re-arganized itself under the name of SAZA (Revolutionary Organization of the Toilers of Afghanistan). Its leader is Bashir Baghlani an original settler from central Ask and a reliable man of the Soviets.
    In the past few months this party had sent most of its educated members to the North to participate in political and organizational activities. The fall of the stronghold of Setam Milli is a severe blow on the Soviet design to create a strong puppet party along its border with Afghanistan.
                                                Badakhshan province
    The enemy attack to capture Baharak sub-district was foiled by the Mujahideen from Jami'at on December 11, Sayed Najmuddin Said.
    According to Sayed Najmuddin, the commander of Jami'at in the area, the Soviet planes bomb Wardooj valley from 3 to 6 times day and night
    Baharak garrison was captured by the Mujahideen two months ago.
About 700 soldiers and militiamen of the enemy were captured in the operation.
    Wardooj is a narrow valley connecting Baharak to the border town of Eshkashim. This valley was used by the Soviets to invade Badakhshan and bring supplies and troops.
                                                     Herat province
    To prevent the Mujahideen from launching attacks on the anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, the Soviet forces have laid a siege around the city of Herat since December 13. Fighting has taken place in Houz-e-Karbas, 3 kilometers west of the city. The enemy casualties were not immediately known.Two Mujahideen were injured.
    -Report of low intensity fighting from different parts of Herat province indicates a standstill situation in the province.
    East of the city of Herat was attacked by communist forces on December 6, as a result of which one Mujahid and several civilians were killed.
    The Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Torghondi Road on December 4 as a result of which one
             Turn to page (4 )
AFCjHANews Vol5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 3
 AFGHAN e ws
                                 P.O.Box 264, Peshawar- Pakistan Tel: (0521) 41381
 Editorial
 Talks with ex-king designed to divide Afghans
     THE Soviets' move to meet the ex-king, proposal to start dialogue with Iran-based Mujahideen parties and their attempts to talk with individual commanders are designed to divide Afghans and complicate the situation further.
     Taif talks between the Soviets and the Mujahideen should be considered as an important step towards achieving peace in Afghanistan through political means. But the late Soviet moves to contact other groups and individuals cast doubts and suspicions on the good intentions of the Soviets in finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Soviets have proposed to see the Shia Alliance in Iran. So Car, the leader of Mujahideen based in Iran have not accepted the Soviets' offer. This indicates the farsightedness of these leaders and their understanding of the evil designs of the Soviets.
     Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance, visited Iran on December 24 to talk to the Mujahideen leaders based in Iran to unify the position of the Mujahideen on the talks with the Soviets.
 Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Yuri Vorontsov, who led the delegation of the Soviets to the Taif talks has visited the ex-king in Rome and has discussed with him the Afghan issue. Meeting individvals who did not play a role in Jehad is an attempt to create differences among Afghans.
     The ex-king who preferred growing roses in Italy to fighting for the liberation of his country which he had ruled for several decades, did not find it morally wrong to be used by the Soviet invaders. He has said on several occasion he will do what the people of Afghanistan want him to do, but did what was harmful to the unity of Afghans. His participation in the political life of Afghanistan is an internal issue which should not be discussed with the invaders.
     The Soviets also are^trying to contact different commanders, refugee figures and individual parties to persuade them to participate in coalition government with the puppet regime.
     The idea of a broad-based transitional government after the Soviets have left is acceptable to the Mujahideen. By this they mean that the Mujahideen, the refugees and the representative of all parts of Afghanistan should be included in the transitional administration.The non-communist people living under control of the regime could also participate.
     But what the Soviets want is to create a new crises by creating new groups in the resistance camp. They want to make Zahir Shah a party in the broad-based government, not as an individual but as a representative of a group which will be organized later. They also talk about the participation of tribal leaders and different nationalities who are part of the present Mujahideen parties. But these new groupings will not come about peacefully and quickly. The purpose of them is not, as some people see it, an attempt by the Soviets to save face.lt is a real conspiracy to divide the Resistance.
     Soviets know that the puppet regime in Kabul will not last long after they have withdrawn their troops. The only hope they have is the division of the Resistance. They think that if the Resistance is divided the regime could have a chance of survival. This is the real reason for Vorontsov's late initiatives.
     The Mujahideen leaders should take notice of this conspiracy and take steps to neutralize them. The talks with Iran-based Mujahideen parties started very late but now they should continue until an agreement has been reached. The Mujahideen should include people from all nationalities and different groups of the Afghan society in their proposed interim government so that no room for Soviet maneuvers are left In the next rounds of talks, the Mujahideen should make it clear to the Soviet side that they can not continue to talk to the Mujahideen and at the same time contact individuals and other groups.
                                                                                                                  Turn to page (4 )
 Peshawar gossips hurt Arab scholar
    THE head of the political committee of Jami'at described Commander Ahmad Shah Masood as a military genius who has organized an exemplary military and political structure in the North-East of Afghanistan.
    Dr. Najibullah Lafraii who accompanied Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani in his recent visit to the North was replying to a question by an Afghan journalist Dr. Lafraii said the biggest achievement of Commander Masood is introduction of an efficient organization. He has trained military cadres who not only have military knowledge but also have obtained a high degree of Islamic knowledge.
    Commander Masood is a military genius who has frustrated several attempts of the Soviets in the; Panjshir valley . In addition to that, his capturing big garrisons in few hours of fighting is a good example of his great military skills. Dr. Lafraii said.
    He added that Masood has shown great skill in the political field as, well He has organized the Supervisory Council of the North.
    Regarding the late propaganda launched by some Mujahideen circles against Jami'at and Masood, Dr. Lafraii said: "We have already rejected these baseless charges. These charges are not new".
    Dr. lafraii repeated a conversation between Commander Masood and Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar and a staunch supporter of the Mujahideen which took place during their recent trip to Panjshir Valley:
    "Once I (Abdullah Ezam) considered you (Masood) a big enemy because the people in Peshawar described you to me as a Maoist and as a Western agent. Later when some honest Arab brothers met you, I started to think that I was mistaken. Now that I have met you I know how great my mistake was. Now I have become so suspicious about gossip in Peshawar that if they tell me the milk is white, I will not believe it (before seeing it myself)".
    It should be added that a few days ago an article in Frontier Post quoting "reliable sources" alleged that Masood and Jami'at had made a secret deal with Soviets.
    Later the leader of one of the parties, whose enmity with Masood is old, alleged similar charges without going into detail.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 4
News from the battlefields
              From page (2)
 Kabul regime
   gets new weapons
    Soviets have given a new weapon system to the Kabul regime to boost its shattering morale.
    The new weapon is BM-27, a multiple barrel rocket launcher. The rocket which weighs 300 Kg. and has a range of 40 kilometers.
    The Soviets have also given 80 new armored cars, both wheeled and tracked types, and some An-12 transport planes.
    Earlier the Soviets gave Scud medium range missile and stationed 30 Mig-27 planes in the west of Afghanistan.
    In his speech at the UN, Gorbachev proposed arms embargo to all sides of the conflict from January 1. 1989.'
    The Mujahideen rejected the proposal and called it a design to protect the puppet regime in Kabul.Soviet Union also have delivered military instalations to the regime which worth billions of Dollars.The communist regime has stockpiled enough weap-ons.In the case of arms embargo the Mujahideen will suffer the most.
    The two-day meeting in which Jami'at commanders from the provinces of Logar, Wardak, Ghazni, Paktia, Paktika, and South of Kabul participated was held in Logar on 5 and 6 December.
    The meeting which was chaired by Dr. Fazlullah, Jami'at commander in Logar, asked for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and rejected the idea of coalition government with the communist regime in
                                                      Editorial
                                                     From page (3)
    There is also a need to inform the world about Soviet designs. The Soviet designs against the people of Afghanistan can be foiled if the Mujahideen take practical steps towards the formation of an interim administration which is broad-based. This will end the present uncertain situation which the Soviets are exploiting.
 tank was destroyed and all its occupants were killed.
    Fighting between the Mujahideen and communist forces in Adraskan district continues. The Mujahideen destroyed on armored car in Adeen area of Adraskan and killed one soldier on December 12.
    In,a different operation on the same day the Mujahideen destroyed three trucks on Herat-Kandahar Road.
    The Mujahideen attacked the communist security posts in Shakar Buz area of Gulran district on December 5. Twenty guns were captured and some enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. One Mujahid was killed and one was injured.
    On December 9 the Mujahideen captured six armed enemy soldiers in Pushtoon-Zarghoon district.
    Badghis province
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Naik Mohammad Khan have besieged the Kushk-e-Kuhna sub-district. Thirty militiamen defected to the Mujahideen on December 9.
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Naik Mohammad Khan liberated Qadis district.
 Kabul.
      The meeting called on all the Mujahideen to unite their ranks and take steps to form an Islamic army. According to the resolution passed in , the meeting the formation of such an army is necessary for the victory against the enemy, preservation of law and order and protection of the independence of Afghanistan.
      The commanders participating in the meeting agreed to establish closer contacts with the Supervisory Council of the North and the Mujahideen in the West
      The meeting decided to establish closer contacts with the Mujahideen from other parties, create better understanding amongst the Mujahideen and pave the road for further cooperation.
      This was the first meeting of the Jami'at; commanders in the region. Commander Fazlullah played a vital role in convening the meeting and passing the resolutions.
    In the operations one hundred enemy soldiers were killed and some others were captured. In the fighting which lasted for five days, 10 Mujahideen were martyred and 30 were wounded.
 The Mujahideen captured three armored cars, four trucks, and some quantities of arms and ammunition.
                                                 Farah province
    A supply convoy of the enemy on its way to Kandahar was attacked by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Farah I Road District on December 15 as are- | suit of which 10 enemy soldiers were killed.
                                                Ghazni province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Ghazni airport with heavy weapons on December 2 as a result of which a oil depot of the enemy was set on fire. Two enemy soldiers were killed in the attack.
    •The Mujahideen fired mortar rounds into the enemy positions near the airport as a result of which two enemy sbldiers were killed and three others were wounded. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries in the operation.
    The report adds that representatives of Jami'at Mujahideen in Ghazni participated in the regional meeting of the commanders held in Logar. They reached important decisions about the future course of action.
    Jawzjan province
     An important militia commander in Andkhoy district joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at headed by Commander Faizullah on November 28. Rahim Pahlawan, an officer of the regime militia forces, joined the Mujahideen bringing with him 70 Kalashinkov rifles, four mortars, four machine gun, one communication set, one jeep, four trucks and some quantities of food and ammunition.
     j
                                                                                              Ghoor province
    Ten Mujahideen were killed and ten Others sustained injuries when their positions were bombed by the Soviet Jets in Taiwara district on December 3.
Jami'at commanders meet to coordinate their actions
—------------AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 5
Evolution of Islmic movement in Afghanistan Part (I)
        Islamists felt need for a party
                  to defend Islam
                     By Mohammad Es’haq
      The roots of Islamic movement in Afghanistan are deeply rooted in the history of the country. But the Movement emerged as an effective force only at the end of 60s and the beggin-nig of 70s.
      The constitution of 1965 gave some degree of political freedom to the people. The political climate became hot when the first election for the national assembly was held under the new constitution. The people belonging to different political groups participated in it.
      Some of the candidates were landlords and bureaucrats closely connected to the government. Religious Ulemas as well as members of the communist party (of course they were not saying they were communists) also were among the candidates.
      The change of governments and the broadcasts of the proceedings of the national asselmbly on the radio aroused the'interest of the young people to politics.
      In addition to papers owned by the State, several private papas were also published. Different political groups published their own papers.
      Those years witnessed continued agitation in schools, Kabul Universities and factories. This provided platforms for different groups to spread their ideas.
      The common aim of all the groups was a strong desire for change. The backward economy, corruption in the government and social injustice provided different groups with a cause to go to the people and seek their support The first people who were approached by these groups were young people in schools and universities.
       In the early stages of this phase, the leftist parties were in a dominating position. They were organized and equipped with necessary knowledge to attack the establishment and propose communist solutions to the problems. The Government was in hopeless position. It did not have any organized group to defend its position. The official media had lost its appeal to the new generation.
       The traditional clergy was not
 equipped with the right type of weapons to defend Islam, and the spiritual leadership was also facing similar problems. Attempts by sc»ne individuals and small groups could gather enough strength due to the wrong approach or to their connection the traditional establishments.
     The government gave freedom of action to the communist groups to please the Soviets from whom it was getting economic and military aid.
 There was also a second reason fa the monarchy to give a free hand to the communist activists and that was the fear of the regime of the Islamic clergy. Although the apposition to the regime was not open the potential danger always existed. The regime wanted to use the communists to weaken the clergy and it was not worried about the strength of the communists themselves.
     Islamists in schools and government offices saw die need for an organization to defend Islam against the onslaught of and-Islamic forces. They saw the indifference of the government towards this dangerous development This is why the Islamic movement took an anti-communist and an antiestablishment stand from the very beginning.
     To form such an organization there was a need for individuals who had an Islamic background and had a will to start the struggle. Finally such a group was formed and the Islamic movement entered the political life of the country.
     The Islamic movement needed the support of enlighted Islamic scholars. These scholars came from the faculty of Islamic law. Prof. Ghulam Mohammad NianiProf. Burhanuddin Rabbani,
 Prof. Ssyaff and others, helped the movement a great deal. These people had studied in Egypt and had cone in contact with the Islamic movemen (Muslim Brotherhood). Because of this connection, the communists called the Islamic movement in Afghanistan Ikhwanis( Brotherhood). The Islamic movement also made use of the books written or translated by Iranian scholars and the books written by Maulana Maoudoodi of Pakistan.
     The student leaders like Abdul Rhim Niazi, Habib-u-Rahman, Dr. Umar, Saifoddin Nasratyar and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and tens of others played a key role in consolidating the foundation of the newly established Islamic movement
     The Islamic movement which initially called itself Jawanan-e-Musulman (Muslim Youths), took root in a volatile situation. On the one hand it needed to equip its members with the right knowledge to defend Islam against the onslaught of communists; on the other hand it was trying to maintain its independence. The leftists branded the Islamic Movement "the agents of Weston Imperialism" and "the defenders of the privileges of the upper classes." A close look at the structure of foe Movement revealed that its members were ordinary people who wanted change based on the tenets of Islam.
     To prove its independence the movement adopted extreme measures. When the movement burned the Russian flag in foe university campus to protest against Soviet influence, .it also burned the flag of a Western country in the same meeting to show that it was independent Some of foe extreme positions that foe movement took in regard to some spiritual families was a self-defense measure, but it created rift between the movement and these families which still continues.
     Some mistakes committed by communists helped foe new Islamic movement to become more popular. The communist attacked Islamic values. They even threw the Holy Quran out of foe mosque in Kabul University and started to attack the members of the Islamic movement to scare them.
     This brought a backlash which was very costly to the communists. Not only they lost the battle in the campus but faced severe reaction from the people all over Afghanistan.
     As the Islamic movement picked up momentum, the communists changed their tactics and concentrated on working in foe armed forces and
              Turn to page (8)
.AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1, 1989, page 6
Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Commander Abdul Karim
Commander Abdul Karim, Jarai’ai administrative head of Badghis province, 35, was bom in a small village called Tagab-e-Ismaiel in the center of Badghis province.
Abdul Karim was sent to die mosque of the village to learn the fundamentals of Islam and then to the Hanzela Badghisi High School. After completing high school, he went to Kabul and studied in Darul Moalemeen (Teachers Training Institute) in the field of English and Dari languages. He then went to Badghis and worked as a teacher for five years in the same high school he was graduated from.
Abdul Karim was one of the first six persons who organized people in Badghis against die communist regime in 1978. He was chosen by the Mujahideen to be the administrative head of Badghis right from die first uprising against the communist regime.
"I received Jami’at membership card form the party office in Mash-had, a city in eastern border of Iran, in late 1978 and a year later I came to Peshawar and met Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at, and now this is my second trip to Peshawar", said Commander Abdul Karim one week
ago.
Abdul Karim has participated in many operations against the Russians in Qala-e-Naw, Band-e-Sabzak and Kotal-e-Khaki which resulted in the capture of the government garrisons and destruction of many military vehicles, tanks and armored cars. In these operations* hundreds of guns were captured by the Mujahideen.
Commander Abdul Karim is a Tajik an ethnic group which forms the majority of the populations in Badghis. "About 90% of the whole province is under control of Jami'at Island. We have established good relations with commander Ismail Khan of Herat and some commanders from Faryab province. We have a council in which different committees such as health, education, agriculture, judicial and financial are working", said commander Abdul Karim.
According to the commander there are five small mobile medical clinics in the province. A monthly bulletin called "Ferogh-e-Inqilab" (Light of revolution) is published in the Badghis province in which the Commander writes articles. Commander Abdul Karim is married and has six children.
Soviets resume troops pullout
     Soviets have resumed pulling out military advisors and their families, diplomatic sources in Kabul have reported.
     Three special planes flew out an unknown number of Soviet advisors from Kabul in mid-December. The sources also said that preparation for 1 the departure of the remaining 50,000 troops also has begun.
     Soviets suspended withdrawal of their Hoops in February when the communist regime showed weakness in
 fighting against the Mujahideen.'
     Soviets withdrew half of their troops in accordance with the Geneva accords signed on April 14. They are obliged to take the rest out by February 15,1989.
     The US govemement, which is a guarantor of the Geneva accords, has expressed concern over foe continuation of Soviet involvement in offensive operations. US officials say that such operations contradicts foe understanding in Geneva in which foe Soviets had assured the other side that they will not involve in offensive operations.
     US State Department officials have raised the issue with foe Soviet side. The Soviets-who publicly announced the suspension of troops withdrawal, have not made any public statement about resumption of withdrawal.
     The Mujahideen sources have not confirmed foe resumption of foe troops withdrawal. In another development, foe Soviets have decreased the staff of their embassy to 100 persons.
Refugees' rally condemns Soviet invasion
     A huge meeting of Afghan refugees in Peshawar denounced the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan nine years ago and promised to continue the struggle for foe freedom of Afghanistan and for the establishment of an Islamic government.
     The meeting which was organized by foe Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen was held in Peshawar on December 27th, foe anniversary of foe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Speakers representing different parties of foe Alliance asked for the total withdrawal of foe Soviet troops.
     At the end of foe meeting a resolution was passed in which the continuation of armed struggle until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan was promised.
     The resolution asked foe Soviets to leave Afghanistan as soon as posable so that Afghans could determine their future. It asked the release of foe Mujahideen prisoners and foe return of Afghan children from the Soviet Union.
     The resolution rejected foe Gorbachev's proposal for a ceasefire and foe holding of an international conference on Afghanistan and demanded compensation for foe damages the Soviets have inflicted on Afghanistan.
     The resolution asked for guarantees that the Soviet Union will not interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan in foe future.
     The effigy of Najib, the head of Kabul regime, was burned during foe meeting.
     Similar protest meetings were also held in some other cities of Pakistan and some capitals of the world.
  Khalili visits Vienna
     A political officer of Jami’at Islamic of Afghanistan participated in a conference in Vienna on the occasion of ninth anniversary of foe Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
     The conference in which Masood Khalili spoke was held on 13th December 1988 at the University of Vienna and was sponsored by foe Austrian National Union of Students. At the conference many Austrian students, friends of Afghanistan, Pro. Felix Ermacora, Mr. Yankovich, the ex-foreign minister of Austria and some Afghan refugees living in Vienna participated.
 -------------    AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1,1989, page 7
      Formation of interim government insures total victory
     THE military victory of the Mujahideen over the Soviet forces is an undeniable fact but the Mujahideen have gone only half of the way. The important job of the creation of a stable political system is yet to be completed.
     The Soviets invaded Afghanistan to impose a puppet regime on Afghans. They made use of their military might ruthlessly. They made use of different kinds of tactics and all sorts of weapons in their arsenaL
     In ten years of the war they destroyed 75% of the villages ad towns, killed more than half a million Afghans and forced more than five million to seek refuge outside Afghanistan.
     Afghans put up a heroic resistance. Without proper weapons and appropriate organization they fought an uphill battle against the Red Army. Finally the Soviets were forced to re-consider their policy and started to leave without achieving their aims. This was indeed a miracle of our time.
     The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and continuation of the war for nine years has created problems for Afghans which will not end by the withdrawal of Soviet troops. The Soviet invasion destroyed the existing political system in Afghanistan.
     The major task after the war is creation of a stable political system to give the country the stability which is necessary to put the foundation of a new Afghan society and start reconstruction of the country.
     During the war, the Mujahideen created a local administration to deal with the problems of the people. These administrations have a local nature and their level of development depends on the military and political conditions of the local areas.
     These civilian infra structures have played a positive role in running the affairs of different areas and continue to provide stability for those areas in the future.
     The size and the type of organization in each area is different arid local customs and traditions have put their effect on the form of these organizations. In the ideal situation, the expansion of these local administration structures could have expanded to regional and finally national level and could have filled the gap created by the war.
                                    By A.H. Mansoor
 But it did not happen because of the withdrawal of Soviet troops took place as a result of a political decision not as a result of the natural development of the war.
     After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and the fall of the regime, the formation of a central government which has the support of Afghans is of vital importance.
     The way this government will be formed depends on the way the regime is forced out of power. If the regime surrenders without much fighting the existing institutions in the capital and other cities can form the base for the, formation of the new government The Resistance will need to provide senior leadership for these organizations but the machinery itself could continue to function. In this type of development the transfer of power takes place smoothly and a chaotic situation will be avoided.
   , In the second option the regime will continue to resist and the victory come through military action. The task of forming government will therefore will have to be more difficult. The Mujahideen not only have to provide senior officers in big positions but have to find clerks, book-keepers and provide them with pens, stationery and typewriters. It will be a tedious job. In any case, the Resistance needs to pave the ground for the transfer of power and formation of a temporary central government before reaching the final stage of the war.
      The transitional administration that the Resistance should agree upon must be broad-based to get the confidence of different sections of the Afghan society. There are two Alliances, the seven party Alliance based in Peshawar and eight party Alliance based in Iran, refugees, religious mamas, field commanders and people who have lived under the control of the regime but are not communist The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen already has stressed the need far abroad-based government representing all sections of the Afghan society.
      If a head for the stale is chosen and a representative council is formed most of the job is done. The Alliance had agreed on such arrangements but the. way the proposed council should be elected has remained controveisial. In
 the face of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan and shortage of time the easiest and quickest method should be adopted.
     The Mujahideen Alliance could be criticized for it slow pace. If the Soviets withdraw their forces by February 15, there is little time left to accomplish the job. The Alliance's decision to send a. delegation to talk with the Mujahideen parties based in Iran was a wise step but it came very late.
 It is hoped that all aspects of the problems are discussed with them and proper steps are taken.
     The Mujahideen leadens have a special responsibility to devote their time and energy to find ways of getting out of the present situation. If this opportunity is missed because of petty issues among the parties, it may be lost forever. Lack of agreement on the future form of government could lead to an uncertain situation and will prolong the suffering of the people.
     The Soviets will be happy to see a blood bath in Afghanistan to cover their crimes. They have tried to divide Afghan society on ethnic, linguistic and regional lines.
     In Taif, Vorontsov, the Soviet deputy Foreign Minister, was defending one section of Afghan against others.
     A free, Islamic and stable Afghanistan will be a total victory far the cause of freedom. It will provide a living example for small countries to stand on their own feet and defend their freedom and honor against aggressors. This is why the Soviets do not want to see such a model emerge.
     The enemies may wish anything they want but the future belongs to Afghans. There is no doubt all Afghans want a free, Islamic, prosperous and peaceful Afghanistan. The Mujahideen leaders should take appropriate steps to end this uncertain situation and pave the road for a total victory-something that Afghans have sacrificed so much for and therefore deserve to achieve. ***
 Do not forget that Soviets have promised to the world community that they will pullout their troops from Afghanistan by
   February 15,1989.
 Do not trust their words, wait for their action.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 1, January 1,1989, page 8
Soviet journalist sees no future for regime
     A Soviet journalist has said that the communist regime in kabul has lost the confidence of the people of Afghanistan.
     Artem Borovik, the foreign editor of daily Ogonyok, who participated in a conference about Afghanistan organized by the Oriental and African studies of London university, told BBC that he was not optimistic about the future of Afghanistan.
     The Soviet journalist said the invasion of Afghanistan was a mistake committed by Breznev. He criticized the limitation imposed by the Soviet government on the coverage of war during the Breznev rule.
     Due to these limitations, the people of Soviet Union did not know about the problems the soldiers were facing in Afghanistan. The people of the Soviet Union were thinking their soldiers were busy planting trees and growing flowers, Mr. Borovik said.
     He was of the view that the Soviet troops will be withdrawn by February 15.
     The Soviet journalist said that after nine years of war the relation between the Soviets and Afghans will not be friendly. The Soviet leaders would like to see a government in Afghanistan which is not hostile to the Soviet Union.
 Islamic Movement
                                               From page (5 )
 other establishments. They had lost the dominating position in the educational institution. Some nationalist movements disintegrated. Most of their members joined the Islamic movement and some who were leftist members joined the communist groups.
    The Islamic movement realized that without an organized party it could play an effective role in the politics of the country.
    It was six months before the fall of King Zahir Shah that the movement which was named Jami'at started to register its members. They chose a council and appointed Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani as the first leader of Jami’at.
    When Daud made the coup with the help of the communists difficult times started for the Islamic movement.
    Most of its founding members were arrested and some were forced into exile. In exile the movement faced other problems and finally was divided. Even some people started to deny that the name of the party was Jami'at and its elected leader was Prof. Rabbani. What happened to the Movement during Daud's time will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.
    Warning Masood
    The Kabul regime has warned Commander Masood of the Panjshir valley not to disturb the Salang Highway or face the consequence of his action. Salang road brings supplies from the Soviet border to Kabul the capital of the county which is facing food arid fuel shortages.
 UN convoy ambushed North of Kabul
    A UN convoy transporting humanitarian assistance to the war affected people in Panjshir was ambushed by Mujahideen belonging to Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar group) near Charikar city about 50 kilometers north of Kabul on November 26.
    The convoy which was composed of 18 trucks were carrying seed fertilizer and medicine to the valley.
    The convoy which was travelling under the UN flag was stopped by a commander from Hezb a few kilometers south of the provincial capital of Perwan province. Ten trucks and three officials of the UN were captured in the incident Four days later the three officials were released when UN officers contacted the Hezb leader in Peshawar. The commander confiscated the contents of the ten trucks he had captured.
    According to the UN officials,
 Hezb leader told them that attacking a UN convoy was not the policy of Hezb but the decision of a single individual.
    Despite their official denial some Hezb officers justify the action of their commander on the ground that the UN convoy was coming from Kabul and the material was going to Masood.
    Earlier a UN team had gone with the Mujahideen to the North and central parts of Afhanistan on a fact-finding mission. The team returned and submitted its report to Prince Aqha Kahn, the UN Coordinator for Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan.
Soviet
envoy
meets
ex-king
   A Soviet high-ranking representative has met the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir in P.ome to discuss with him the situation in Afghanistan.
   Mohmmad Zahir, 74, was deposed by his cousin. Prince Daud in 1973 and since then has lived in exile in Italy.
   Soviets and members of the communist regime have been trying to involve the ex-king in the National Reconciliation program of the regime. In the Taif talks, Youri Vorontsov raised the question of participation of the ex-king in what he termed "intra-Afghan dialogue." The Mujahideen delegation did not discuss the proposal because participation of individuals was an internal issue of Afghans.
   The ex-king has shown interest in playing a role in the political life of the country but has not taken any practical steps towards this end. It is not known what role the Soviets are ready to give to the ex-king. Some people think he could play the role of a figure head in post-war Afghanistan, but most of the important Mujahideen parties and field commanders have opposed his return.
   Prof. Rabbani, the current chairman of Afghan Mujahideen Alliance, has opposed holding talks between the Soviet officials and the ex-king.
   "Zahir Shah belongs to history and has no role to play in Afghanistan and its political future.", the Alliance leader said.
   To the Soviets, Zahir Shah is a known figure. During the long rule of the ex-king the Soviets gained considerable influence in Afghanistan.
   Talks on POWs
   The second round of talks on the prisoners of war issue between the Mujahideen and the Soviets was held in Islamabad on December 17.
   A two-member delegation of the Mujahideen met Soviet officials in Islamabd. The discussions concentrated on the exchange of Soviet prisoners of war with the Mujahideen captured by the Soviets.
   In the first round of talks the Mujahideen had given the name of four Soviet prisoners to be exchanged with one hundred Mujahideen.


                                                     ^j^Jt   <Jt)t ^y^i
smimmmmMmmmmmmmiM
s
 Published fortnightly by Jam^at iSlhnii Afghanistan
Vol 5, No 2
January 15,1989
    Islamabad talks on Afghanistan make no progress
     THE second round of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet delegation ended without making progress in Islamabad on January 6.
     The delegations met twice in the foreign Ministry of Pakistan and the talks continued for five hours.
     The first round of talks were held' in Taif in Saudi Arabia on December 3-5. The Soviet envoy visited Mohammad Zahir, the ex-king, in Rome and later met a delegation of Iran-based Mujahideen parties in Tehran.
     Reliable sources say that the Soviet envoy heard from the ex-king and the Mujahideen based in Iran similar things to what he had heard from the Alliance delegation in Taif.
     The Mujahideen delegation was headed by Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, the current chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, and the Soviet delegation was led by Soviet Union First Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuri Vorontsov.
       Other members of the Mujahideen's delegation were Sayed Ahmad Gailani, leader of NIFA, Mohammad Khalili, representative of eight party coalition based in Iran, Mr. Mohaqqeq of Islamic Unity party, Mohammad Es'h^q from Jamiat Islami and Abdul Qadir Karyab from Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar). The Soviet delegation had a new face in it. He was the Soviet Ambassador to Islamabad.
     The talks continued in a calm atmosphere. Discussions were frank and each side listened to the views of the opposite side with care.
     The Mujahideen side insisted on the transfer of power to the Mujahideen and completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops as soon as possible.
     The Soviet side insisted on ceasefire and beginning of talks between all Afghan groups (including PDPA) to find a solution to the. problem of Afghanistan .These views were rejected by the Mujahideen delegation and it was made clear to the Soviets that the
 communist regime in Kabul can not play any role in the future political life of the country.
     The Mujahideen delegation told the Soviet side about the arrangements made to form a representative council from all the cross sections of the Afghan society. The Soviet side said that they saw a positive substance in it.
     The Soviet delegation repeated what they had said in Taif. They insisted on measures to end the conflict by accepting ceasefire. The Mujahideen side stated that unless the causes of the conflict, the presence of the Soviet troops and the communist regime in Kabul, have not been eliminated the war will continue. However, they repeated the earlier statement of the Mujahideen that the retreating Soviet troops will not be attacked.
     MUJAHIDEEN will hold no further talks with the Soviets unless they abandon insistence on inclusion of the communist regime in the proposed broad-based government and the Soviet troops have not withdrawn from Afghanistan.
     This decision of the Alliance was announced by Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, the current spokesman of the Alliance, in a press conference on January 9 in Islamabad.
     Prof. Mujaddidi who led the Mujahideen's delegation in the Islamabad talks described the attitude of the Soviet delegation in Islamabad talks as negative. He said continuation of negotiation in such an atmosphere will not be productive.
     Mohammad Karim Khalili, the spokesman of the coalition of the Mujahideen based in Iran, was also present in the press conference.
     In a separate statement Prof.
     In Taif Mr. Vorontsov repeatedly pointed to the existence of different groups among the resistance, like Peshawar-based Alliance, Teheran-based coalition and the supporters of the ex-king. In the Islamabad meeting he had lost this card because members of Iran-based Mujahideen parties were setting in front of him and also had returned empty-handed from Rome.
      Yuri Vorontsov threatened the Mujahideen delegation that, if they did not accept the ceasefire, the world will hold them responsible for the bloodshed. i
     Probably the Soviets will build on the same theme a propaganda offensive against the resistance.
     Y uri Vorontsov repeatedly assured the Mujahideen that the Soviet Union
                                                                                                                        Turn to page (5 )
 Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader, has criticized the attitude of Yuri Vorontsov in the negotiation in Islamabad and his remarks in his press conferences..
     Prof. Rabbani said that the Soviet envoy's statement that his country will continue to support the regime shows that Soviets are not for peace in Afghanistan.
      Jam'i'at leader said that the international community should take notice of Vorontsov's threatening remarks.
     Prof. Rabbani who led the Mujahideen delegation in the first round of talks in Taif said in his statement that a country which is responsible for killing of 1.5 million Afghans can not pretend to be a champion of peace and blame the Mujahideen for bloodshed.
     "We believe our stand on ceasefire and the future of the puppet regime is just and reasonable. We can not compromise on these principle issues.", the statement reads.
Alliance sets conditions for future talks with Soviets
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15,1989, page 2
News
From the battlefields
   . Kunduz province
    FORTY passengers of a bus were killed by the Soviet soldiers in Abdan-i-Mir Alam, near Imam Saheb District, one month ago, commander Abdul Mateen said to Afghanews reporter.
    The passengers who were mainly women, children and old people were settlers of Imam Saheb.
    Kunduz city was liberated in the Fall but was recaptured by the communists when the Soviets intervened.
    Abdul Mateen who is a Jami'at commander from Imam Saheb, a dis* trict along the Soviet border, said that the regime has arrested 30 WAD officers for their bad performance in fighting which resulted in the fall of Kunduz city in the hands of the Mujahideen.
    It is believed that some of these officers will be hanged and some others will be sentenced to long term imprisonment.
    WAD is the secret police of the regime trained and organized by KGB. Earlier it was called KHAD.
     Ghazni province
    MORE than 100 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded when the Mujahideen from Jami'at who were helped by the Mujahideen from other parties attacked the enemy positions in Ghazni on December 27. The Mujahideen made use of heavy and light weapons in the attack.
     On December 26 the Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter which was bringing supplies to the besieged enemy garrison in the city. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
     Fighting for control of the some areas around the city continued on January 9,10 and 11. Forty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. The Mujahideen lost one man.
    The snow and cold weather has not decreased the level of fighting between the Mujahideen and communist forces.
    Ghazni is a historic city located on the Kabul-Kandahar road. Its supply lines are cut and it is being supplied by air.
                                                  Takhar province
    THE enemy garrison in Bagh-i-Zakhira near Taliqan city was captured by the Mujahideen on December 25.
    There were about 400 enemy soldiers stationed in the garrison. The attack was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to different parties but Jami'at played a key role in the victbry.
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 150 enemy soldiers including the provincial head of WAD and the commander of the police force in the garrison and 14 other officers. The Mujahideen from Jami'at also captured two armored cars, more than 100 guns and a great quantity of ammunition.
    Earlier the Mujahideen had captured the stronghold SAZA, a communist faction, in Qazaq near Taliqan city. By elimination of Bagh-i-Zakhira garrison, Taliqan became safer.
    Oh December 27 the enemy abandoned Chah Aab district in Takhar. Most of the enemy soldiers joined different Mujahideen groups..
    Chah Aab is located along the Soviet border.
                                                   Balkh province
     THE Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked with long-range weapons the enemy position in the Fertilizer Factory near Mazar city. The enemy casualties were not immediately known but it is believed to be heavy.
     In a clash with the communist forces in Sia Gird area of Nahr-i-Shahi district, two enemy tanks and three
 trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed. Juma Qahraman, a well-known communist figure in the area, was killed in the operation.
    The Mujahideen lost two men and six Mujahideen were injured.
    The enemy retaliated by bombing Jami’at strongholds in Alburz and Aaqtaipa but no figures for the casualties were immediately known.
                                                     Kabul province
    TO mark the 9th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan the Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Mullah Ezat fired 50 rounds of ground-to-ground rocket on the enemy instalations in Qargha division, Darulaman and Khair Khana on December 27.
    It is believed that the enemy have suffered heavy casualties as a result of the attack but no figures were immediately available.
    The enemy retaliated by bombing Paghman heavily which caused damages to properties. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
    Aerial an ground bombardment of Paghman district, 17 kilometers West of Kabul, has intensified and the enemy is making extensive use of heavy rockets against the Mujahideen.
    Paghman is a beautiful valley which was s Summer resort for the people of Kabul. Paghman became a stronghold of the Mujahideen since the beginning of the Soviet invasion.
                                                  Ningarhar province
    AFTER two days of severe fighting, the Mujahideen captured Goshta district headquarters in Ningarhar province and killed some 100 Kabul regime troops and captured 18 high ranking officials, on January 9th, said ANS field correspondent
    There were some 1200 Kabul regime militiamen and soldiers defending the headquarters. In a joint attack on January 7th, Mujahideen captured nine surrounding posts and Shakarghund battalion near the district headquarters.
    The Mujahideen captured three armored cars, one jeep, two trucks and a large quantity of arms and ammunition with the loss of 14 Mujahideen martyrs arid another 10 wounded.
      Kabul regime retaliated by high-altitude bombing on January 9th in which many houses were hit. No casualties is reported yet
AFGHANews VoI5, No 2, January 15,1989, page 3
Mujaddidi becomes
Mujahideen's
spokesman
    SEBGHATULLAH Mujaddidi assumed office as the current chairman of Afghan Mujahideen Alliance on January 1.
    Prof- Mujaddidi who is the head of National Libration Front of Afghanistan replaced Prof. Rabbani.
    Prof. Mujaddidi will lead the Alliance for three critical months. He has an important job of leading the Alliance delegation in the talks with the Soviets and taking steps to form an interim administration in the country.
    Soviets are supposed to pull out their troops by February 15 and the Kabul regime is believed to fall when it has lost the direct support of the Red
 Army. The major task in front of the Mujahideen is to create a broad-based interim government to run the country once the regime is forced out of power. Prof. Mujaddidi as the chairman of the Alliance can play a vital role in creation of such an organization.
     Prof. Mujaddidi belongs to a spiritual family. He is an Islamic scholar with a record of anti-communist activities. He could be called a traditional leader relying on tribal bonds and family connections. His party, Jabha-i-Milli was formed in 1979 and compared to other parties in the Alliance, has limited military strength.
Let Soviets speak for themselves
By A.H. Mansoor
 Soviets suffer from drug abuse
     As it pulls its Army back from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has come face to face with one of the more serious draw-backs to foreign intervention - many soldiers, the Soviet press reports — are returning addicted to heroin and other drugs.
     The Govemment-run weekly, Literatumaya Gazeta, recently reported that Soviet soldiers took heroin and other drugs before going into battle against the anti-communist resistance forces. The information on drug abuse, the magazine reported, came from a survey of 3,000 students who had completed their service in Afghanistan.
     According to Government figures
                                           released earlier this year, Soviet drug
                                           abuse has increased rapidly in the past
                                           four years: The report revealed that
                                           130,000 Soviet citizens were registered
                                           users of illegal drugs. Of these, 52,000
                                           were classified as addicts and 62 per
 cent were under 30 years of age.
                ***
     This is a guest article taken from the Muslim world weekly published by the Muslim World Congress of Pakistan in its December 31 edition.
 Islamic Movement
                                                    From page (6)
 cal agents of the regime helped by the local communist activists. Some of them were caiptured and later were executed.
      A few months later most of the senior members of the movement like Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, Prof. Sayaf, Habib Rahman, Saifuddin Nasratyar, Omar and tens of others were jailed. The imprisonment and later the execution of these members were a severe blow to the Movement
      Fortunately the the leader of the Movement, Prof. Rabbani, and some of its senior members had managed to avoid arrest and went to the Tribal areas to continue the struggle.
      The movement had suffered the first set back with great losses but Daud and his communist friends had failed to crash it It started to prepare itself for the next round of confrontation which took place in August of 1975.
      The story of the first armed encounter against the regime will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.
 THE publicized predictions of Western intelligence and diplomatic sources about the Soviet plans in Afghanistan are helping the Soviet Union and hurting the cause of Afghans.
     Some of these predictions have turned to be wrong but their announcement have decreased pressure out on the Soviets and has given false hope for peace in a country where fighting still continues.
     The Soviet Union has committed itself to withdrawing its troops by February 15,1989.
     In November it postponed withdrawal of its troops and so far has not announced resumption of troops withdrawal. The Soviet leaders have put as condition for troops withdrawal the progress in talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets.
     Any postponement or delay in troops withdrawal is a source of worry for Afghans and the peace-loving world and they take it seriously. But the behavior of some Western sources relieves pressure from the Soviets.
     When Soviets announced postponement of troops withdrawal the US government sources called it a bluff. The same sources were saying the Soviets will complete withdrawal of their troops before the end of 1988 and will
 not launch offensive attacks against the Mujahideen.
 Developments in Afghanistan showed that these predictions were wrong. The Soviets not only did not withdraw their troops till the end of 1988, the withdrawal of their troops by February 15 has also become doubtful.
      Press reports quoting State Department give the impression that the Soviet troops are planning to leave but Vorontsov refused to give a date for the withdrawal in the talks with the Mujahideen. He also linked troops withdrawal with the progress in the talks.
     In a press conference held in Moscow on January 11, Soviet chief negotiator Mr. Vorontsov told the press that there is the danger that the Soviet Union will not take out its forces by February 15.
     The prediction of Western sources decreases the public pressure on the Soviets and the world thinks that the war is over.
     It is much safer to let the Soviet speak for themselves. The Soviets should not be helped by unnecessary comments based on intelligence source and satellite pictures. Let the aggressors pay the price of their illegal stay in Afghanistan.
AFGHANewsVol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 4
  AFGHANews
 •' 1 S?p.6i Box 264, Pfeshawar-'Pakistan Tel: (052}J!4138i '
  Editorial
Vorontsov responsible for failure of talks
    UNREALISTIC demands of the Soviet delegation was responsible for lack of progress in the talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviet Union representatives.
    The Soviet Union agreement to hold direct talks with the Mujahideen was welcomed by the resistance. Two rounds of talks were held, one in Taif of Saudi Arabia and other in Islamabad. Afghans and the rest of the world were expecting the talks would lead to a political settlement.The second round of talks ended with no progress being made.
    The reason for the lack of progress was the Soviets insistence that the communist regime should be part of any future political system in Afghanistan.
    The present communist regime was brought to power in 1979 when the Red Aimy invaded Afghanistan. Nine years of military and political efforts backed by the Soviets did not give the regime popular support.
    The Mujahideen's position is consistent. They say the regime is a product of the invasion and must go with the invading forces.
    Yuri Vorontsov's position in the talks was not different from his stand in public. He did not use his diplomatic skills to understand the position of the Mujahideen but used it vainly to create divisions between Afghans. His separate talks with the Mujahideen in Iran and the ex-king in Rome and offering them separate deals all indicate that the Soviet have not reached the decision to deal with the Mujahideen.
     Accepting a role for the regime will prolong the war and will be used as pretext by the Soviets to continue their interference in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen have clearly told the Soviet side to choose between future good relationship with Afghan people and supporting a bunch of communists.
    It is in the best interest of Afghans, Soviets and peace in region and world that Afghan issue be solved on a just basis . Based on the resolutions passed by the UN, Afghans should determine their future.
    Postponement of troops, introduction of new weapons and threat of further support for the regime will not solve the problem on Soviet terms. Giving the Kabul regime a role in the future of Afghanistan under any name is not acceptable.
    The slogans of "Stopping blood-shed" raised by the Soviets will not deceive the world. A butcher can not pretend to be the member of an animal protection club. Murderers of half a million Afghans can not shed blood of sympathy for imaginary "bloodbath" in the free Afghanistan.
                                                         If the Soviets want peace on their Southern border they should withdraw their troops, end their support in favor of the regime and set the foundation of their relationship with Afghans on new realities.
     The end of the regime is in sight. Soviets efforts to save them will not succeed. Soviet leaders should avoid committing a new mistake in Afghanistan.
Obituary
    ENAYATULLAH Shafaq son of Maulawi Ahmadulhaq was bom in 1949 in Qala-i-Malik of Bagram district in Perwan province.
    When Shafaq was a child he lost both of his parents. He was raised by his uncle. He studied religious subject in a mosque and followed Bagram Secondary school. He enlisted in the topographic School in Kandahar. After graduation he worked as an officer of the Rural Development Authority.
    Commander Shafaq got interested in the Islamic movement through his uncle who was teaching in Abu Hanifa religious school. When the communist coup of 1978 took place he migrated to Pakistan.He met Prof. Rabbani and started to help establishing a base in Koh-i-Safi east of Kabul.
    He went to Panjshir to meet Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and the revolutionary name of Shafaq (dawn) was given to him by Masood. He established a base close to the famous Bagram Air Base.
    Commander Shafaq participated in the fifth meeting of commanders belonging to the Supervisory Council of the North in the spring of 1988. During the meeting the good news of the capture of Bagram district headquarters reached him.
    He had launched many attacks against the enemy air base and its surrounding posts. He had scored many victories. He was a tall and thin man who wore simple clothes. He was a military man as well as a good politician. He was interested in education of children and payed attention to solving the problems of the people. Fighting against a super power requires brave people but fighting close to the enemy base needs extremely courageous people. Shfaq had such a courage.
    On October 31 he died as martyr in an attack against an enemy outpost at the edge of the air base . He was the 9th member of his family who lost his life in the war against the Soviets and their puppets.
    He was married and has left behind a widow and three sons and three daughters.
    To honor commander Shafaq the Mujahideen appointed his brother, Gul Aqha to be their commander.
 AFGHANews Vol5, No 2, January 15,1989,page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen

om. Dad Mohammad
      COMMANDER Dad Mohammad was bom 33 years ago in Sangeen district of Helmand province. His father was a merchant and an influential man in his community. "My father did not want me to go to the university. He wanted me and my other six bothers to just learn how to read and write and then follow practical life." said Dad Mohammad "So he sent me first to the nearest mosque to learn Islamic fundamentals and then to school." After completing nine years of school he became a shopkeeper in his home town.
      Helmand is one of the South-West provinces of Afghanistan. It is important for Kandahar as a retreat base and for Herat and Badghis provinces as a supply route. "I help hundreds of Mujahideen of Herat and Badghis every year. My Mujahideen provide security for them by not allowing the enemy to ambush their convoys going through Sangeen area." said Dad Mohammad who has come to Peshawar to talk to the relief organizations about provision of relief assistance to the people in the area.
      Dad Mohammad started to organize a small group of people in Sangeen in 1979 to fight against the communist regime of Taraki. He was jailed by the regime authorities in Sangeen for four months. "My father bribed the government officials and released me from central jail in Kandahar." said Dad Mohammad.
       After being released he resumed his struggle against the communists. "Day by day my group was getting larger. Every one was trying to get weapon and fight against the communists. Since we were not experienced our casualties were higher. I lost 15 members of my family including my brother in the early stages of the war." said Dad Mohammad.
       Dad Mohammad came to Peshawar in late 1979 to meet Prof. Rabbani who appointed him as Jami'at commander in the Helmand province. "I bought 26 shotguns and one hundred thousand rounds of ammunition with my own money and took them to Sangeen. In a very short time we captured the garrisons in Sangeen, Musa Qala, Nawzad and captured a lot of weapons and ammunition." said Dad Mohammad.
       Pushtoons are in absolute majority in the Helmand province. Dad Mohammad comes from one of the in-
 fluential Pushtoon tribes. He says there are other parties which he has very good relations.. In the recent operations during which the Mujahideen captured many government posts and garrisons, all the Mujahideen fought together.
     After the meeting of commanders in Saghar which was organized by Ismail Khan of Herat, Dad Mohammad worked hard to to organize himself better. "We have built a relatively good administration in the area to help civilian population. We have encouraged the people to cultivate their fields so that they should have enough food said Dad Mohammad. He added that since his district was strategically important, the Russians always bombed it and made fanning difficult.
     He complained that he has received no help form the humanitarian organizations based in Peshawar.
      A shopkeeper who started his Jehad with fifteen persons, ten years ago has more than 1500 Mujahideen under his command. He is married and has six children.
 Food shortages in Badghis
     SOVIET bombardments and insects have caused low farm products and food shortage in the border province of Badghis.
     Abdul Karim, Jami'at commander in Badghis said that insects have caused damages to wheat product in the province. This and the Soviet bombardments, lack of proper seed and fertilizer all have contributed to the food shortage in the area.The people of Badghis bring their food from Herat
Islamabad talks
                             From page (1)
 will take its troops out at the condition that ceasefire be observed and a dialogue between Afghans would begin. He never referred to February 15 as the deadline far troops withdrawal. -
     The Soviet envoy admitted the presence of young Afghan children in the Soviet Union. He described them as orphans who were taken there to be looked after on humanitarian grounds. The resistance is asking the return of these children so that they should not undergo a brain-washing program by the Soviets.
     The Soviet delegation hinted to the delivery of more sophisticated weapons to the regime if the resistance rejected the ceasefire and negotiation with PDPA.
     The two sides agreed to continue discussion in the future. The time and place of the negotiations will be agreed upon by both sides later.
    Read also Editorial
 Afghan students demonstrate in Tashkent
    A large number of Afghan students studying in Tashkent have staged a violent demonstrations, Soviet official sources have reported.
    The students were studying in a police school in Tashkent The reason for the demonstration is not clear but some sources have said that the students were angry about the Soviet Union's troops withdrawal from Afghanistan. These students who are pro regime feel the need for Soviet" troops presence in Afghanistan to protect them from the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 6
 Evolution of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
Part (2)
 Daud’s hostile attitude towards Islamists led to confrontation
     THE Islamic movement considered Prince Daud a friend of the communists and opposed him even before coming to power as the president of Afghanistan in 1973. Daud’s coup was not welcomed by the Islamic movement but the communist celebrated it as a victory for their cause.
     The presidency of Daud marked the beginning of a testing time for the Islamic movement. Hundreds of its followers were jailed and the tension between the movement and Daud led to coup attempts against Daud and finally armed clashes with his regime.
     Daud was an ambitious person who was dreaming of 1 a Great Afghanistan’ under his rule. To achieve this he had to oppose the king who was his cousin. To get supporters he established close contacts with leftist movements and was also encouraged by the Soviet leaders who wanted to play on his ambitions and use him for their own strategic ends.
     The communist party which wanted to bring revolutionary changes in Afghanistan based on the Soviet model found Daud a suitable partner. He provided the communists with protection and they provided him with personnel on whom he depended to cany out his plans. Their partnership was a marriage of convenience.
      The Islamic movement which opposed both Daud and the communist movement was gaining momentum and was becoming organized. This development must have been a source worry for the Soviets, the communist elements in Afghanistan and Prince Daud. As the result of the Islamists activities Communism ideology had lost appeal to the young people. Communist groups faced reaction by the ordinary people due to their anti-religious activities. In the last year of the monarchy, the communist could not hold public meeting in the university campus which they controlled fully some years before.
      This situation forced the communist groups to work among the armec. forces and the work took place among the junior officers with little salary and to much work to do. The Afghan Army was equipped and trained by the Soviet Union. It gave the Soviets a golden opportunity to spread communism ideolo-
    By Mohammad EsTiaq
 gy in the Army. A large number of army officers went to the Soviet Union for training. These people converted to communism. These officers who were members of the communist factions played a key role in engineering consecutive coups and their role in Daud’s coup was very significant. There were non-communist officers who also lelped Daud in his coup because they were for a change and did not know about Daud's close contacts with the communists.
    After the coup, the Islamic movement came under pressure. Communists assumed key positions in the government and used their position to promote their cause and suppress the Islamic movement.
    Communists were serving as the ears and the eyes of Daud's regime. They warned Daud of the great danger his regime was facing from the Islamic movement. The plan worked and Daud who was not in direct touch with realities, took a tough stand against the Islamic movement.
    Daud started to complain in public about the Islamic movement. In a speech on the flag hoisting occasion he said:" There are people who have doubt about my faith (in God). I should say those who do not have faith can not be useful to their country and people."
    The next morning Radio Kabul in a commentary said that president Daud meant by faith, faith in revolution and faith in people. This was the interpretation of the communist agents who had infiltrated the government controlled radio.
     The little political freedom which was granted by the monarchy ended with the coup. The Communists got a free hand to propagate their ideology under the guise of supporting the new republic. Daud was a prince, with no party and no direct contact with the people. The communists provided him with party anti supporters.
     Because of the above developments the Islamic movement lost hope in a peaceful way of struggle and resorted to secret means of opposing Daud and his communist colleagues.
     Daud coup showed a short way to power. Since the coup was almost bloodless it seemed the easiest way of achieving revolutionary aims. Since the
 communists were sharing power with Daud, the people who tried this method belonged to the Islamic movement or to the nationalists groups.
     After the situation was clear and everyone saw the influence of the communist in Daud's regime, the Muslim officers repented their participation in the coup in favor of Daud and became volunteers to act against him.
     Most of the coups have little chance of success. The efforts of the Islamic movement met the same end. Hundreds of army officers, students, Islamic scholars and ordinary people belonging to the movement were rounded up and sent to jail.
     In jail communists were in charge of interrogations. In addition to physical torture, psychological torture in the form of degradation of Islam was carried out by these officers.
     The movement changed tactics after the failure of the planned coup in 1974. It resorted to open armed resistance against the regime. A group of such people headed by Dr. Omar who was later executed by Daud, went to the Keshm district of Badakhshan. 1 was one of those people and the memories of that mission are unforgettable.
     The people who had gone to the area were young students of schools and of Kabul University. They had a few thousand Afghanis in cash, a few pistols and some hand grenades.
     These people had gone to challenge Daud with an army of 100,000. To ordinary people it seemed like committing suicide but to those people it was a holy mission to be fulfilled. I remember how Dr. Omar recited verses ol Holy Quran to raise the morale of his friends and used example from the history of Islam to remind them of their responsibility.
     Despite their good intentions, cleanliness of soul and strong desire to serve their people, they were not ready for such a big mission. They woe few innumber; they did not have enough resources, and people support was in doubt. None of them had any experience in using guns, or real combat experience and even they had not been in military service.
     These people were betrayed by lo-
                                                                                                                                   Tum to page ( 3 )
____________________AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 7
’Stopping bloodshed' code name for Vorontsov’s attempt to save regime
                          By Habib Rahman
     SOVIET military and diplomatic efforts are aimed at saving the regime after the troops withdrawal. This plan is carried out under the code name of "stopping bloodshed in Afghanistan.”
     Soviets favored signing the Geneva accords because they were thinking it will put the regime in a good position. But die developments showed that the regime will face serious problems as soon as the Soviet troops are out of Afghanistan. This worried Kremlin leaders and they appointed Yuri Vorontsov as their Ambassador to Kabul to help in finding a way out of the difficulties.
     Vorontsov who is also the First Deputy of Foreign Ministry of U.S.SJR. came to Kabul with a combination of military and political plans to avoid the regime's defeat. He ordered postponement of troops withdrawal and introduced new weapons and even indulged in offensive activities by Soviet troops. The purpose of these measures were to give a morale boost the regime in Kabul. This was necessary for the implementation of the rest of his plan.
     The second step was a political purge inside die ruling party in Kabul. Those who opposed his programs of dialogue and power-sharing with the opponents were either removed from the important position in the government or were sent to jail.
     The third step was offering a dialogue with the resistance and individuals in exile. The central issues proposed by the Soviets in the talks with the Mujahideen were observation of a ceasefire and the beginning of dialogue between the1 Mujahideen and the regime.
     In the talks the Soviet envoy used the language of threat and promise simultaneously. He threatened the Mujahideen against rejection of ceasefire and told them that all the responsibility of the future bloodshed will rest on their shoulders. He also talked of regime's readiness to continue fighting for 100 years., He said to the Mujahideen that the regime will be supported by his country and new weapons will be given to it.
     Vorontsov tried hard to emphasize the durability of the regime. His argument was based on the assumption that the regime had a strong army and enjoyed the support of a major section of the Afghan society.
     During the discussions, in Taif and Islamabad, he refused to give assurance to the Mujahideen that their troops will withdraw by February 15. He connected the troops withdrawal with progress in the direction of what he termed it "Infra Afghan dialogue."
     The Soviet envoy also tried to wedge gap between the Mujahideen and their supporters. He talked about assurances that Iran, Pakistan and Saudi leaders have assured him to support his efforts for a peaceful settlement
     He wanted to impress the Mujahideen delegation by promising economic aid for Afghanistan. He repeatedly referred to $600 million promised to the UN for reconstruction of Afghanistan. He tried to say that Soviet Union was a friend of Afghanistan (!) and will be a friend in the future. He also said that the Soviet Union did not consider the Mujahideen enemy.
     Soviet soldiers call the Mujahideen Dushman, Persian translation of the word enemy, which has became part of their language. The word Dushman referred to the Mujahideen can be found in the Soviet publications too.
      Vorontsov was trying to give himself the position of a neutral mediator but was told openly that he was representing a principal side in the conflict.
     In talking with different Afghan groups he has used a different language. There is not enough information about what he said to the; ex-king, but to the Iran-based parties he offered internal autonomy for Hazarajat areas in exchange for power-sharing with the communist regime in Kabul.
     Hazarajat is the central part of Afghanistan where Shia parties based in Iran have influence.
     He was told by the Mujahideen leader that they wanted the whole Afghanistan and not a slice of it.
     Vorontsov who is considered to be an able diplomat tried to use his abilities to divide the resistance but failed very badly.
     Vorontsov now and then referred to PDPA and other political and religious groups. What he has jn mind and does not find it proper to reveal at the moment, is a number of parties created by the regime under different names.
     The strong point of the Mujahideen is the popularity of their cause. Even the Soviets say that it is
 up to Afghans to decide the type of government Saying this and then bargaining about inclusion of the communist regime in the future political system is a contradictory approach.
     The Mujahideen spoke to the Soviets reasonably and firmly. While they showed their desire for peaceful ways of transfer of power, they did not compromise on the issue of disqualification of the communist regime to form the future political life of Afghans.
     To Vorontsov it was made clear that the regime which was a product of the Soviet invasion must go with the Soviet troops. However, the resistance will deal with its members with Islamic tolerance and it is not in favor of further bloodshed.The members of the regime will be treated justly.
     The Mujahideen told the Soviets that they are in favor of a new chapter in the relation between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan. The future relations will depend on the present behavior of the Soviet leadership and will be based on mutual respect and noninterference in the affairs of each other. It is up to the Soviets to choose between having good relations with a neighboring country and supporting the communist regime.
     Will the Soviets come to a compromising position? From the talks it did not seem so. They want the regime to be part of the future political system which is not acceptable to the Resistance. They may change the name of the party or may sacrifice some figures but so far they seem firm on the survival of the regime. To them the survival of the regime is a victory for their Afghan policy and a guarantee of the preservation of the Soviet interests in Afghanistan.
 EEC calls for timely troops pullout
     European Economic Community has called on the Soviets to abide by the Geneva accords and pull out. its troop till February 15.
     The 12 member E.E.C statement was issued in Athens on the occasion of the 9th anniversary of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan. The statement has called the talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets "particularly encouraging" to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
-AFGHANews Vol 5, No 2, January 15, 1989, page 8
Soviet envoy offers authonomy for
 Jami'at
 loses
 commander
    Shafaq, 39, Jami'at Islami commander in the strategic Bagram district was killed on October 31 in fighting against die communist forces.
    Enayatullah Shafaq emerged as an effective Mujahideen commander in Bagram and organized a relatively strong front against the Soviets and the communist regime. The area he was operating in was important because of the Bagram air base and the road connecting Kabul to the Soviet which passes the west of the district.
    Shafaq who was educated in the topography school of Kandahar showed that he had the qualities of leadership. Since Shafaq was coining from a religious family and was a good Muslim himself, he was respected by the people in Bagram.
    His death was a loss for the Mujahideen. His brother, Gul Agha, has been chosen by the Mujahideen in his place.
    One week ago a funeral ceremony was held in Peshawar to pray for his soul. Besides hundreds of Mujahideen Professor Rabbani, Jami'at leader also attended the ceremony. In a speech delivered on the occasion. Prof. Rabbani who had met Shafaq several times and for the last time during his trip to Panjshir, praised him for his services to Jehad.
    See also obituary on page (4 )
 Mujahideen ignore ceasefire call
    THE Mujahideen ignored the Soviets' and the Kabul regime's call for a ceasefire starting from January 1.
    The head of the Kabul regime, Dr. Najib, announced a unilateral ceasefire on the radio and Television.
    Gorbachev had proposed a ceasefire starting on the new year.
    This was the third unilateral ceasefire announced by the regime and its Soviet masters which was ignored.
    The Mujahideen rejected the offer and called a design to protect the communist regime. Reports about fighting from different parts of Afghanistan indicate that the proposed ceasefire is not observed by both sides.
 Hazarajat
   THE spokesman of he eight-party Alliance based in Iran said that his Coalition has rejected the Soviets proposal to give autonomy to the Hazarajat area in return for participation in a coalition government with the Kabul regime.
   Mohammad Karim Khalili, the current spokesman of the eight-party coalition of Mujahideen who has come as the head of a delegation to Pakistan gave an - exclusive interview to Afghanews in Islamabad on January 8. Ho said that Soviet repeated to Mujahideen in Iran what they have told the Alliance delegation in Taif. In the Tehran talks a new element was the proposal of autonomy for Hazarajat where most Shias live. This proposal was rejected by the Mujahideen, Khalili said.
   Khalili, 38, was bom in Behsood district of Maidan province. He received private education and contacted some members of the Islamic movement at Kabul University. In 1981 Khalili went to Iran and there laid the foundation of the Nasr party with the help of his friends. Khalili spends most of his time in Tehran working for his party. He is the representative of his party in eight-party coalition. He is the current' spokesman of the Coalition.
   The coalition of eight-party based in Iran is composed of Jehad Islami, Nasr, Jabha-i-Muttahid Islami, Pasdaran, Daawat-i-lslami, Harakat-i-Islami headed by Shaikh Asif Mohsini, Nairo and Hezbullah headed by Ahmad Ali. Six parties in the coalition are led by collective leadership in the form of a council. Each party has introduced one representative in the supreme council
 Regime closes Hochest plant
    The Hoechist Pharmaceutical plant in Kabul ceased production in mid-December due to shortages of supplies. The plant which was built by a German firm is located in Kabul.
    Due to the risky routes bringing supplies to Kabul has became difficult
 and one representative in, the coordination council. The spokesman of the coalition is chosen on rotational basis from the members of the supreme council for a period of three months.
     Khalili said he had come to' talk to the seven-party Alliance and Pakistan officials. He also participated in the talks held with the Soviets in Islamabad.
     Khalili said his delegation will meet the leaders of the Alliance and discuss with them ways of cooperation among the two Alliances.
     In reply to a question about the support of the Iran government to the Mujahideen, Khalili said that the Mujahideen's activities are free. Since Iran was engaged in a war with Iraq, it could not help the Mujahideen. Now that the war is over, it is hoped that the Islamic republic will be able to help the Mujahideen. On the political front Iran has been supporting the Mujahideen and will continue to do so.
     The spokesman of the eight-party coalition said that the Soviet delegation met the Mujahideen delegation twice on 2 and 3 January in the headquarters of the Coalition in Teheran.
     When he was asked why his Coalition met separately with the Soviets after it was asked by the Mujahideen Alliance not to do so, he replied that such a request was not made by the Alliance. He added that when the Alliance delegation went to Taif, it gave the Coalition a right to meet Soviets separately at least once.
     About getting aid from Western countries, Khalili was of the opinion that the coalition of eight-party is not against getting aid from any country provided no strings are attached to it. He said that due to religious ties the Mujahideen parties based in Iran have special ties with Iran, but Iran has its own interest and the interest of Afghanistan is separate.
     Khalili was of the opinion that after the Soviet withdrawal the people of Afghanistan will keep their unity because all of them believe in Islam.
     He favored formation of a selected Shoora from the two Alliances to form the transitional government, to draft constitution and to pave the way for general                    elections.