1 Ot THE NAMEOP A1MMHTT ALLAH t
AFGH ANmews
           A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OE JAM I'AT ISLAM! AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. V0L.llLN0.il, 1/6/1967.
                                                    AFGHAN'S EID
 Eid is celebrated after completion of one month of fasting. It is a great religious occasion in which the Muslims thank their Lord Almighty Allah who gave them the % strength to fulfil one of their most important obligations -- that is, the fasting during' the month of Ramadhan.
 On Eid Day, a Muslim washes his body, uses perfume and wears the best of his clothes before going to the Eid gathering. He also has to pay a definite amount of money as Sadaqa-i-Fetre for the poor to make him (her) able to celebrate the Eid without worrying for the meal of the day.
 People get together in special Eid gathering places and pray in congregation. Sermons are delivered by the religious scholar and different issues which mankind is facing are discussed in the light of Islamic teachings.
 After offering the prayers friends and relatives meet each other and share meal in an atmosphere of brotherhood and love. Presents are given uyhe children, visits are payed to those who are sick and crippled.
 Making use of the occasion people renew their friendly relationship with friends and relatives with whom they had developed some kind of unhappiness. Human beings make mistakes and sometimes offend their friends, neighbors, relatives and other human beings. Islam teaches Muslims to forgive and Eid is one of the occasion on which to practice the act of forgiveness.
 Before the war, the people of Afghanistan who are committed Muslims celebrated the Eid in traditional ways. It was one of the happy occasions In the life of the people. But communists took over and then the Soviet invasion ended the happy days of the Afghans.
 As a result of the war, the country was divided into the Soviet occupied and Mujahideen controlled (liberated) areas and the population were divided between those who remained in the country, either in the liberated or occupied areas, and those who left the country to live in exile as refugees. There is little contact between these three categories of people. Families have been divided and friends separated. More than half a million people have been killed and a large number have been crippled. The war has left a large number of families without a father and there is nobody to take care of them. All these things sadden the Afghans and when Eid comes the people feel the absence of their beloved ones.
 In the Soviet controlled areas an atmosphere of hypocrisy is prevailing. Godless communist celebrate Eid without prior fasting and attend with the congregations to deceive the Muslims in Eid gatherings. Imams on the government payroll, try to lustily Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and the policies of the puppets by quoting verses of Holy Quran. People suffer, but have no means to react.
 In the liberated areas the situation is better. They are free and enjoy the company of the rank and file of the Mujhhideen. The spirit of true Islam shines and everybody is tied together by the bond of faith. Shortages of commodities are compensated by a spiritual richness. The only problem is the (huger of enemy aerial attacks against the
flFGHBH NEUS UM..MI, HO.tl, 1/6/»9e7,PB6E 2
Eid gatherings. People try to find places with some kind of cover and Mujahideen forces are alerted to deal with the situation if the enemy do attack. Last year in the first day of Eid 100 people were killed as a result of aerial bombardments in Takhar and Baghlan provinces in the North of the country.
In exile Afghans celebrate Eid all over the world, especially in the neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran where the more than 5 million refugees are living. Hospitality of the governments and people of the brother countries of Pakistan and Iran has alleviated some of the pain the refugee community experience, but homesickness and separation from relatives and friends is the fate of a refugee.
JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
 WISHES A HAPPY     -FIERE
 EO ALL LiUSLLM BROEHERS AND
 SISTERS ALL OVER THE WORLD.
           * * *
 The big tragedy of the people of Afghanistan created by Soviet Russia continues. A nation is deprived of living according to its belief and beside physical suffering experienced severe psychological torment.
 The Afghan nation desires peace to celebrate Eids and other national and religious occasions in a peaceful atmosphere. This is the natural right of Afghans and this can only be achieved if Soviets leave the country and Afghans are left to determine their own destiny.
 We wish our brothers and sisters a happy Eid and assure them of our continued commitment to struggle for liberation of the country and restoration of peace.
                                     PDPA MOURNED KHALILI'S DEATH
 According to Radio Kabul, PDPA Politburo condoled the death of Khalili and called it an irreparable loss. Radio Tajkistan -- A Soviet Central Asian Republic— also ran an hour-long program to commemorate his death.
 This decision of the puppet regime and the Soviets reveals the hypocritical nature of their policies. They do not have any respect for a national poet like Khalili who opposed the communist rule and the Soviet invasion of the country. They have condoled Khalili's death for the following two reasons:
    1- To promote the Soviet dictated National Reconciliation program.
    2- To damage the prestige of a national poet who fought foreign aggression and the tyranny of the communist rule through his pen. Soviets knew that anybody connected to them or the puppets will be hated by the people of Afghanistan so they wanted to create doubts in the minds of the people of Afghanistan about Khalili after his death.
 Fortunately this enemy lactic will not prove effective because the so-called National Reconciliation program of the regime is already dead . The attempts of the enemy to damage the personality of Khalili also doomed to failure because the people of Afghanistan knew him very well. Khalili has left behind a great amount of literature which shows his love for Islam and support for the Mujahideen cause. In all his poetry
fiFBHRH HEMS VOL. 111^    N0.1I,   1/6/196?,PIWE 3
he denounces the invasion his beloved country by the Soviets and has opposed the rule of the puppets. In the last ten years of his life he came into close contact with the people of his country who came from ail walks of life, and earned their admiration. The strongest point in Khalili's life was his opposition to the Soviet invasion and the propaganda of the Soviets will not change the view of Afghans about the late Khaliii.
                     NEWS
                    FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                            KABUL PROVINCE ^
On 2/5/1987. Mujahideen fired several mortar shells inside the sub-district of Golefera in Oarabagh district. One of the shells hit its target as a result of •which several communists were either killed or wounded.
According to another report sent by commander Anwar, Mujahideen from Jami at ambushed a Russian convoy on May 10, 1987 in Mahipar on the Kabul-Jalalabad Road as a result of which ten tanks and five trucks which were carrying ammunition were destroyed.
The report does not give any figures for enemy casualties. A few Mujahideen suffered slight injuries
                            HERAT PROVINCE
ON 3/5/1987, fourteen enemy jets bombed Ghoryan district as a result of which 81 civilians were martyred and more than 120 others wounded The report adds that a large number of houses were destroyed as a result of the bombardment.
                            BALKH PROVINCE
According to recent reports from the Mujahideen of Jami at Islami in Balkh province, three Russian planes and one helicopter were shot down in that province in mid April. The details of the incidents are as follows:
On 14/4/1987 at 11:00 Am. Mujahideen shot down one of the two jets which were flying in Gorimar area, The pilot of the second Jet. who was afraid of being shot down, ejected himself with parachute and let his plane crash. The two pilots were killed in the incident The planes belonged to the DRA.
On 15/4/1987. a Soviet Jet was hit by the Mujahideen. It crashed in Aghorboy in Sholgar district. Four parachutes were ejected from the plane before the crash Two of the parachutes were empty and the other two landed with two pilots in Bairumshah area.
AFGHRH HEMS UOl.lll, HO.II, 1/6/1907,PB6E 4
 One of the pilots was killed and the other captured by Maulawi Usman from Harakat. The report does not specify the type of the planes shot down and does not clarify whether the pilot was captured by Harakat of Mohsini, a Sheeya group active in the area or Harakat of Mohammadi
 In retaliation to shooting down of Jets, the enemy attacked Jami'at base in Sholgar district.
 On 17/4/1987. the enemy offensive which was very large, was launched at 5:00 Pm. (something unusual because the Soviets usually launch their attacks in early hours of the day) Fighting continued for 12 days. 17 Mujahideen were martyred and 80 others wounded About one hundred civilians were either killed or wounded and a large number of houses were destroyed, The enemy used artillery and ground-to-groun^ rockets heavily against the villages.
 The enemy lost one Helicopter and 4 tanks and trucks during the offensive. Their human casualties (killed and wounded) mounted to 200 men.
 On May 10,1987.Mujahideen attacked the militia posts in the city of Mazar killing 11 of them and wounding 15 others
 On May 14,1987, Mu jahideen attacked the enemy post in Qool Taimor captured 2 soldiers with 2 guns, one communication set and ammunition. In the two operations two Mujahideen were martyred and one injured
                                            SAMANGAN PROVINCE
 According to a report from Samangan, on 22/4/1987, Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Khalil Khan blocked Polikhomri-Mazar high-way in Tangi Tashqorghan for 24 hours. This section of the road is very busy and most of the supplies coming from Russia pass through this highway The enemy made use of ground and air force to open the road
 The report does not give any devils about the casualties of the two sides Khalil Khan who was once a deputy of late Zabihullah Khan of Mazar is busy fighting the enemy in Samangan province
                                                  •
 According to another report reaching here Mujahideen from Jami'at in Khulm, the provincial capital of Samangan province, Aaibak district and Mazar city in the Baikh province, launched attacks against the enemy on April 27.1987 with ground-to-ground rockets The purpose of the attack was to protest against the anniversary of the communist coup In all three places the anniversary ceremonies arranged by the puppets were disturbed. The en .'my also suffered heavy casualties but the the report does not give any specific figures.
                                               SALANG VALLEY
 On 29/4/1987 Mujahideen from jami'at under the command of the well-known Sufi Mohammad Saeed of Shotol atlacksd a puppet post in Salang They captured 7 soldiers and seized 10 AK-47s, and PK machine gun, one communication set and some ammunition Mujahideen suffered no casualties
 On 5/5/1987. Enemy forces who wanted to launch a surprise night attack against Mujahideen were ambushed by the Mujahideen, Twenty four enemy soldiers were killed and 15 others wounded Two trucks were also destroyed in the attack The enemy failed in her mission and retreated in disarray
 On 17/5/1987. Mujahideen ambushed a Soviet patrol unit killed 3 soldiers and captured three Ak-?4s.
                                                      * * «
flFGHRH HEHS VOL.Ill, HO.H, 1/6/1967,PR67 5
                                          PANJSHI8 VALLEY
On 8/5/1987, Mujahideen attacked a group of Soviet soldiers who were swimming in the river in Zamankor, 10 Km inside the main valley, and killed 14 of them.
                                          PARWAN PROVINCE
On 5/5/1987, supporters of the Mujahideen in Gulbahar. at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, planted a time-bomb in a Soviet supply convoy which was carrying ammunition to Panjshir. As a results of the explosion two tanks and 4 trucks were destroyed The children in the area recovered an AK-74 from the mentioned convoy and passed it to the Mujahideen                                                      «
                                          KUNDUZ PROVINCE
According to a report sent by Qari Rahmatullah on 27/3/66 Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Char Sari in Khanarad district with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties the exact number of which was not immediately known
On the same day Mujahideen attacked the district headquarters in Khanabad with 107 mm rockets The enemy casualties were not immediately known
On 13/2/66, Mujahideen ambushed a group of KHAD agents in Mullah Gholam village. Fighting continued for two hours Twenty three enemy personnel were killed and 4 AK-47s, were captured Mujahideen suffered no casualties
                                    HIGHLIGHTS OF A RECENT SPEECH
                                              By Prof. B. Rabbanj
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani the leader of Jami'ai Islami Afghanistan, delivered a speech on the political solution of the Afghanistan issue in the Institute for Strategic Studies in Islamabad on May It' The main points of the speech and subsequent interview with The Muslim newspaper are the following
                                                •
   1 Recent ‘ initiatives" by Gorbachev for the political solution of the Afghanistan issue is the continuation of the political maneuvers and propaganda war by Russians from the outset of their invasion to confuse world opinion and to prevent strong condemnation of their aggrersion in international forums. The recent maneuvers have achieved some success especially among the Gulf countries —with the exploitation of Iran-Iraq war But this is only temporary With the passage of time the truth of the matter will be revealed and the propaganda will lose its effectiveness.
   2 Russians and their puppets’ actions in Afghanistan show they are not sincere in their claims for seeking a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue Russians have brought in more troops and weapons and have intensified the war and their indiscriminate bombardments inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps at the same time that they speak loudly about "peace', "ceasefire", and national reconciliation".
   3 Historical evidence shows that Russia was able to bring many of the Eastern European countries into its orbit after World War II by the infiltration of its agents into national reconciliation" and coalition governments One single communist minister for example was able to stage a coup d etat, dissolve the majority parties, and establish pro-Russian communist regime It seems that Russians want to repeat the Eastern European experience in Afghanistan and achieve by political means what they have failed to achieve by military means — that is, to bring that country under their domination
flFGHRH HEHS ML.Ill, NO.It, t/e/l907,PR6E 6
  4. The key for solving the Afghanistan issue is in the hands of the Russians The problem started with the Russian invasion and can be solved by their withdrawal of the Russian troops. Mujahideen are entitled to form a government directly, but Russians present some excuse such as their fear of further bloodshed after the withdrawal of their troops So other ways could be sought
  5 Any solution must take into account the following points which are accepted by the Afghan people as the basic principles of their revolution
   a. The future regime in Afghanistan will be Islamic
   b Afghanistan could not be used as a base by any foreign country.
   c Afghanistan will have good relations with all its neighbors provided they do no^ interfere in its domestic affairs.
   d The right of self-determination is a basic right of the Afghan people.
   e No infringement can be made on the territorial integrity of Afghanistan
  6. Mujahideen are ready to talk to the Russians directly if they abandon their empty pride and recognize the reality of Mujahideen
  7 The following proposal could be considered as a possible way for the political solution: The present government in Afghanistan especially the military, police, and Khad are dissolved The ministers are removed and the deputy-ministers carry the activities of the ministry on an interim basis. A team of former generals and persons dealing with law and justice — those who are acceptable to the Afghan people — form an interim administration with a security force equipped with light weapons The administration -* which is not a government and cannot engage in diplomatic activities -- has two specific duties:
     (1) To provide security for the withdrawing Russian troops and to the pro-Russian Afghans
     (2) To hold a free gener?'. election International observers could also supervise the withdrawal of the Ru;r ii>n troops and holding of the election The elected council will write a new constitution and form a government.
  8  Zahir Shah could not solve the Afghanistan problem. He is being proposed by Russian circles not as a serious option but to achieve some other goals - including bringing disunity among Mujahideen Zahtr Shah has lost his power base in Afghanistan -- that is the tribe: and the tribal system He is weak and not capable of forming a government. He has some supporters but many others are against him and hold him responsible for the prtsent tragedy of the Afghan people Zahir Shah will create more problems than he solves
  9 Recent bomb explosions in Pakistan are also pan of the Russian propaganda war It is true that their aims arc to create misunderstanding among the refugees and the Pakistani people and to put pressure on the Pakistani Government to accept a political solution dictated by Russia But the Russians also want to create the impression that their subversive activities wUl come to an end once the refugees return to Afghanistan. This is not true. As Aqabacov s (a KGB agent who defected to the West) memoirs show, Russians have certain goals in Pakistan and the Russia Government designed a plan for widespread subversive activities in NWFP and Baluchestan as long ago as 193&. Refugees presence is no danger to the security of Pakistan. The establishment of a pro-Russian government in Afghanistan will pose a real threat to the security and national integrity of Pakistan

BFOHRH HEUS UOt.lll, H0.1),        1/6/l987,PRGE  7
                                 RELIGION IN THE SERVICE OF COMMUNISM
 Communists do not believe in God and consider religion to be the remains of backward societies so they want to destroy it Communist harsh measures against Islamic teachings and religious figures which started with the communist coup of 1978 in Afghanistan revealed the enmity of Afghan communists towards religion.
 Communists found Islam a major obstacle on their way to impose an alien way of life on Afghans who were Muslims, so they declared a total war against it Their harsh measure were not able to subdue the popular resistance and even the intervention of the Red Army could not help the situation After seven years of military pressure the war lords in Moscow and their puppets in Kabul try to adopt a new tactic -that is. to destroy Islam with Islam                                                                       ,
 The easiest target for their campaign was the common man who has a shallow understanding of Islam Communists thought that by talking about religion white washing the mosques and participating in congregational prayers, they could win the-hearts and minds of the people and give the impression that the regime respects Islam. This explains the purpose of all religions propaganda launched by the regime
 Holy Quran is recited each morning on the state controlled radio, mosques are whit-washed Imams of the mosques are paid a salary and the ministry of religious affairs have been established
 After the national reconciliation program the religious propaganda launched by the regime has been intensified. Najib quoted the verses of Holy Quran to justify his policies participated in recitation of Holy Quran during Ramadhan nights and release some prisoners on the occasion of the beginning of Ramadhan
 The regime has recently announced the opening of the of an Islamic research center in Kabul University During the time of the King Zahir Shah the foundation stone of such a center was laid by king Faisal in the University campus Zahir Shah under the pressure from the Soviets abandoned the idea Now the puppet regime wants to use it
 for its political purposes
 Recently it was announced by the puppet regime that an international Qera'at (Holy Quran recitation) will be held in Kabul during the montl\ of Ramadhan It is possible that people from so-called progressive countries like USSR, Syria, Libya, South Yemen and India will participate in this religious program to give the regime credit The puppet regime has put a lot of hope in these efforts to deceive the people of Afghanistan and cover up its anli-Islamic nature But all the evidence shows that they will not succeed in achieving their evil aims because of the following reasons
    1- People now are more aware of the nature of communists than the past They have seen and even experienced the atrocities of communists (puppet and Soviets). They witnessed the destruction of villages, burning the Holy Book and degradation of the mosques by the communists
    2- Mujahideen who have the support of religious scholars will continue to remind the people of their responsibilities and will expose the designsof the communists
    .V History of communist s attitudes towards Islam prevents any sort of premature thinking ahout co-existence of Islam with communism Central Asia once the center of propagation of Islam was destroyed by communists for ever The people of Afghanistan remember what happened to Islam and Muslims in Central Asia They remember how they destroyed the religious institutions of Muslims by similar tactics to which they are practicing now in Afghanistan
 Puppets efforts to wear a religions mask to destroy Jehad is doomed to failure
flFGHRH HEMS UOL.tlt, HO.II, 1/6/»9B7,P«6E 8
                                   ISLAM SHINES ON SOVIET HORIZON
                                                                                [COURTESY THE MUSLIM HERALD TRIBUNE)
Although Soviet authorities have been claiming for decades that religion was a category of the past the number of believers in the U.SSR. is steadily increasing especially among Muslims
An article on religion in the U S S R appearing in the semi-official Belgrade daily 'Borba proves this point by portraying the conflict between atheism and Islam in Soviet central Asia since the 1917 October Revolution,
There are around 43 million Muslims in the Soviet Union, and their number is expected to reach 65 million by the end of this century,                             *
The majority of Soviet Muslims, says "Borba". live in six Central Asian Soviet Republics and their traditions are very strong Numerous mosques have been built in recent years and an increasing number of both educated and self-appointed Ulamas is evident This according to the article, is partly due to the influence of neighboring counties, especially Iran Portraits of Ayatollah Khomieni can be seen on many buildings in the Azerbaijan i capital of Baku
Borba quotes Doctor of Philosophy A Turnbov from Dushanbe as saying that the old concept by which modern education eradicates religion has become outmoded in the USSR where-many highly educated people are embracing Islam But most of the believers says Tursanov. were born after the October Revolution a fact we must not
overlook
                                      Islam is conquering new spiritual plains thanks to its ability to adapt to local spiritual needs and expectations, but is also able to use these needs for its own ends" he
concludes
To counter this revival Soviet authorities have encouraged atheist propaganda in the past, which culminated in the opening of an "institute for scientific atheism" by the
communist party s Academy for Social Sciences in 1964
                                                 BOOK REVIEW
                                                                                             [ COURTESY ASIAWEEK]
                                 ISLAM AND RESISTANCE IN AFGHANISTAN
By Olivier Roy Cambrldga University Press,
The Edinburgh Bldg,
Shaftesbury Rd.. Cambridge.
Islam and Resistance is a translation of author Roy's L' Afghanistan Islam et Modernite Politique, which first appeared in mid-1985. It maries the academic skills of a trained sociologist with months of arduous and often downright dangerous field research inside Afghanistan over a period of several years since the Soviet invasion in 1979 The result is a wide-ranging analysis of the Afghan resistance and the society that underpins it in relation to the various interpretations of Islam current in the country None of this makes for light bedtime reading Roy is systematic in both defining his terms a good idea given the amount of confusion surrounding lags beloved of the Western pres? such as fundamentalist", "moderate", "tribal , and in exploring the historical antecedents of today s Mujahideen
He sets out by dissecting the nature of state and civil society in the Afghan context and the rift that has traditionally existed between them, and that to a significant degree underlies the present conflict He then goes on to examine the background of popular
RFGHRH HEUS VOL.Ill, HO.II, 1/6/I987.PRGE 9
 religious movements in Afghanistan prior to 1947, and the subsequent growth of vhat he terms the Islamist movement. Composed mainly of modernist intellectuals rather than the traditional clergy and fervently opposed to the spread of communist ideology, this group set out to define Islam in terms of its relation to the state and to "develop a modern political ideology based on Islam, which they see as the only way to come to terms with the modern world and the best means of confronting foreign imperialism".
 The author proceeds to analyse in some detail the communist attempts at force-fed reform in the countryside, the uprisings they triggered and the savage repression unleashed by the beleaguered Marxist regime in Kabul. In the second half of the book Roy goes on to consider the evolution of resistance in the light of the ethnic and social backgrounds of the various parties, its military structure and its operational capabilities, Particularly useful here as indeed throughout the book, is Roy s attention to Afghanistan s Sheeya minority, mostly ethnic Hazaras, often overlooked by Western* writers to the advantage of the more numerous Sunni factions
 What makes Roy s analysis of the resistance notably more penetrating than other studies is its grasp and exposition of the movement's underlying socio-political structures, as well as its attention to detail He addresses such issues as the types of weapons used, problems of guerrilla logistics,the impact of the war on nomadic life and treatment of Soviet prisoners -
 Central to Roy s analysis of the war and its future course is the tension between the essentially divisive facets of Afghan society, The main poles, primary loyalty to local community on the one hand, and, on the other, forces of Islamic modernism and a new nationalism born in the crucible of war These latter forces, which promote social and military cohesion, Roy sees as championed largely by the Islamist party of Jamiat-i-Islami strong across much of the north and west, and spearheaded by the new politico-military forms of organization evolved under guerrilla leader Ahmadshah Massoud in the northeastern quadrant of Afghanistan, It is the Tajik. Uzbek and Turkman north argues the author that will prove far more crucial to the development of the resistance than the mostly tribal, Pushtun south, where territorial jealousies tend to inhibit the growth of broadbased politico-military organizations
 On the whole, the translation from the French reads fluently However it is flawed by a surprising number of typographical errors the odd grammatical mistake and occasional outright errors of translation (e g trellis or military fatigues, as worn by central resistance units-rendered somewhat incongruously as denim') More serious is the failure to reproduce the four maps of the original edition showing Afghanistan s topography, provincial divisions, patterns of ethnic distribution and the spread of resistance parties influence In a work that dwells largely on ethnic and regional differences the omission of maps is a curious and irritating one. None of that, however should be permitted to detract from the overall excellence of a work of scholarship that has already become required reading for anyone with more than a passing interest in Afghanistan
                                      A MESSAGE FROM POLAND TO JAMI*AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
 A seminar was held in Warsaw in the second week of May Delegates from different countries were invited to take part in the seminar Jami at Islami Afghanistan sent a message to the seminar explaining the situation in Afghanistan The message was taken by one of the delegates and read in the seminar, The Movement for Freedom and Peace which had organized the seminar sent the following message in reply
                    During the peace seminar taken place in Warsaw we have received your message to the "Movement For Freedom and Peace thanking us for our support to the Afghan
 Mujahideen.
 This first direct contact between our peoples both struggling for the liberation from
fiFGHRII HEIIS UOL.III, HO.II, l/6/l987,PfWE         10
Soviet supremacy is a great pleasure for us Though we live under different political conditions and make use of different methods of struggle our purposes are the same; to defend our national culture, regain our national independence and preserve our freedom and peace.
We regret our limited possibilities to support the freedom of Afghan people. In February 1%7 we held a demonstration in Kracow against the widespread use of torture in Afghanistan and thereby joined the international initiative to collect medicine for the Afghans Moreover the representative of Freedom and Peace in the United States has initiated Project Wounded to provide medical treatment in the US for wounded Mujahideen from Afghanistan
We fully realize that our activity principally has a symbolic value But to us solidarity, with all peoples violently forced to subjugation by the Soviet Union is of the greatest importance Our movement calls for an immediate withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Afghan territory We endorse the proposal to establish an unified government based upon the support of the Afghan people, able to guarantee the independence of the Afghan nation and the freedom of its inhabitants
This we wish ail Afghans and we send our special wishes to Commander Masoud. who has the admiration in wide circles of Polish people.
Long live independence!
Long live independent Poland'
Movement for Freedom and Peace
Warsaw May 9th 10S7
                                   ANTI-MUSLIM RIOTS IN INDIA
Anti-Muslim riots in India as a result of which Muslims are being killed, their property destroyed and their worship places burned or degraded is a source of worry for all Muslims including Afghan Mujahideen who fight for the supremacy of the religion of God We are connected to the Muslims all over the world by the bond of faith and can not remain indifferent about their suffering *We draw the attention of the Indian Government to fulfill its responsibilities in providing protection for Muslims and other minorities So far Indian Government performance in this respect has been very poor and even Indian security forces are biased against Muslims
We sympathize w<th aL the victims of communal violence in India, in general and with our Muslim aethers in particular and hope for an immediate end to this tragic situation
                         JAMI*AT REPRESENTATIVE VISITED STOCKHOLM
Jmai at Islmai representative in France. Brother Humayoun Tander, was invited to participate in Social Democratic Youth Congress which was held on 30 and 31 of May in Stockholm The Jami at representative was given time to speak in the congress about the plight of Afghan nation and their heroic struggle for freedom. It is expected that high ranking Swedish officials will participate in the congress. It should be added this is the first time that an Afghan is invited to participate in such a congress
LONG LifE RF6EMN MUJRHIDEEN !
1 CHTKg MJUg or AXJltOetTY ailah]
  AFGHANnews
                          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                         VOL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/6/1987.
    ISLAMIC MOVEMENT IN AFGHANISTAN: effective and reliable
    The decade of the 1960s is of great significance in the political life of Afghanistan and % in developments in that country in recent years. The 1960s was the decade of Zahir shah’s “experiment ■with democracy*. It was the decade of hot political debates on Kabul University campus end in high schools. It eras the decade of the formation of political parties and movements. It was the decade to which the current Islamic movement traces its roots.
      The Afghan people especially the intellectuals, had been concerned with corruption, economic backwardness and injustice that beset the monarchy regime for a long time. Vhen they were given the chance, they started discussing the causes of those problems and the ways to solve them. Some believed the Soviet style communism to be a solution, some others prpposed the Chinese style. The nationalists did not have any clear ideas and borrowed thoughts from here and there. The monarchy was so bankrupt that no one defended it as being able to take core of the problems.
     In the late 1960s a new movement emerged which surprised everybody. The seed of the movement was planted by a number of Kabul University Professors in the late 1950s. The active members of the movement mostly consisted of students from families who studied natural sciences and engineering in Kabul University or other institutes of higher education.
     This movement rejected both the corrupt regime and the ideologies imported from the Vest. It considered the application of Islam in Afghan people's private and public life as the solution for the problems the country faced. It believed Islam to be a dynamic Deen (religion, way of life, ideology) which provided -the values, principles and , guidelines on the basis of which a progressive, moral, and just society could be built.
     The new movement was appealing to the Afghan people in general. To educated youth, the background of the members of the movement showed that their opposition to communism was not due to their vested interest, nor was their adherence to religion due to their reactionary attitude and their old fashionedness. Other stratas of the society to whom religion was of great importance listened with sympathy to those who were arguing that their religion could take care of their problems.
     Vhen Daud proclaimed his republic, the members of the Islamic movement were the first to sense the danger and to see the communist's hidden hand in the coup detat. Of course they were happy that the reign of Zahir Shah's weak and corrupt regime had ended. But they also knew that the communists were exploiting the situation for their own benefit.
     From the very beginning they worked hard to avoid a disaster, that is. communist take over of the government. They were not successful, however, due to a lack of experience as well as due to people’s ignorance of the true nature of Daud's regime. The abortive uprising in five provinces in the summer of 1975 showed the Islamic movement’s disgust of Daud's government and its endeavors to do something about it.
     Daud who had nurtured the 'communists became a victim of their plots and was eliminated with all his family members. The communists came to power and were so proud of their victory that, they did not care to disguise their true nature. The people
nFPHflH tCHS VCL. Ill, MO. 12, 15/b/ 1997 PRCE]2
recognized them soon and found them unacceptable. They also resented the regime's efforts to interfere in their religious, social, and economic life. Soon they realized the only choice they had vas to pick up arms and defend themselves against the communist's unbridled tyranny.
The followers of the Islamic movement, who •were already active in a struggle against the communist regime, came to people’s assistance and provided the much needed leadership The scope of Jehad expanded later on especially after the Russian invasion and grew nation-wide. But the fact remained that the pioneers of the movement formed the hard core of the resistance and shouldered the heaviest part of the war. At the present, the most effective and organized parts of the resistance are led by people who are connected to the Islamic movement.
In the course of the events, unfortunately the Islamic movement could not keep its unity and vas divided into several groups. They are the organizations called as "fundamentalist" by the Vestem media, a term to which they object because it does not convey their true nature.
Strong and effective resistance against a superpower in military and political fronts needs committed parties and dedicated members. The original Islamic movement provides both in Afghanistan today. The followers of the movement have proved themselves to be able to conduct the war in an organized and effective manner. They are sure that they can also run the country properly after the liberation. Their experience in their long and hard struggle, their commitment and dedication, and their popular Islamic ideology are certainly valuable assets fbr the future of a prosperous, free and Islamic Afghanistan.
                               NEWS
                              FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                      QANDAHAR PROVINCE
According to a report sent by Mullah Naqibullah, Jami'at Islami commander in Qandahar, fighting between the Soviet-DRA forces and the Mujahideen was still continuing up to 24/V1987 in the five districts of the province. The report say that a large number of the enemy forces either have been killed or wounded and about one thousand of them defected to the Mujahideen bringing more than 400 guns with them. The report further says that 3 enemy jets were shot down by the Mujahideen. As a result of the enemy bombardments which takes place during the nights, a large number of civilians were either killed or wounded. However, the report does not give specific numbers for the casualties of the two sides and does not give the details of each campaign either.
                                              -* * *
RFGHPM tEWS VCC.III, HO. 12,       19CT7 PfiGE  3
                                               PAKTIA PROVINCE
 3/6/1987. Mujahideen from Jami‘at shot dovn an enemy jet in jaji front. On the same day the enemy launched a ground attack against the positions of the Mujahideen but faced the resistance by the Mujahideen from three parties of Jami’at, Ittehad (Prof. Sayyaf) and Hezb and retreated after suffering casualties. It should be mentioned that Soviet-DRA forces had launched an offensive against the Mujahideen in the area vhich failed to achieve any of its aims. Exchange of heavy veapons fire between the tvo sides continues.
                                               PARWAN PROVINCE
 16/5/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Bagram district killed three communists by firing 107 mm rockets into their positions.
 18/5/1987. An enemy truck, bound to the famous Bagram Air Base, vas ambuhsed by the Mujahideen and set on fire. The report is silent about the casualties of tvo sides.
                                 AFGHANISTAN IN FREE POLISH PRESS
                     [THIS ARTICLE HAVE BEEN TAKEN FROM THE "VOICE OF SOLIDARITY" NOVEMBER 1986 ISSUE)
 According to a former Afghan student vho lived in Kiev in 1983, three Afghans vere murdered during-the course of the year. The student had found the local people hostile to Afghans, vho vere kept apart, life vas harder in the USSR for them and the authorities had covered up the murders.
 Tvo Soviet officials in Kabul have been executed for being mediators in passing gold to guerrillas through Afghan merchants.
 Slava Denisov, an archaeologist from Dushanbe, vas arrested for collecting signatures against the var in Afghanistan. He vas transferred to the KGB prison in Moscov, pronounced insane and sentenced to a special psychiatric hospital.
 Procurator Chistyakov said at a lecture in September 1985 at the house of political education, CPSU Moscov Committee, that 15,000 Soviet troops die each year in Afghani sten.
 The notebook of a Russian soldier,Alexander Popov, born in 1966, vas found on his dead body in December 1984, in Afghanistan. It contained poems, notes and dravings, reflecting the desolation, despair and hardship in Afghanistan. Soldiers are forbidden to talk about the real situation. As in often the case, Popov’s vritings reveal his strong commitment to religion.
 A cultural vorker from Moscov described hov a friend in Afghanistan told him that, "it is not uncommon to shoot the most hated officers in the back during operations..." Central Asians are still sent to Afghanistan, but are divided betveen units because previous experience has shovn that many defect to the Mujahideen: "Hovodays, central Asian soldiers are placed in predominantly Russian or Ukrainian units and used as cooks and drivers" Soviet soldiers perform best against vomen and children. Vhen they encounter the guerrillas they retreat.
                           JAMIA T LEADER VISITED THE FIGHTING FRONT
 On June 2nd. Jami’at leader. Prof. B. Rabbani left Peshavar for a four day visit to the Jaji front vhere the enemy had launched an offensive During his visit. Mujahideen
 from Jami'at shot dovn one enemy jet.
 According to a foreign journalist after visiting the area. Mujahideen have full control over the situation and Soviets can not come out of their fortress to engage the
BFDIIFM 1EUS VCL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/t/ 1907 P11GE4
 resistance fighters. Planes release their bombs from a high altitude which is ineffective. The enemy makes use of artillery and ground-to-ground missile to keep Mujahideen away from their positions. The morel of the Mujahideen was excellent.
 In Jaji all the Mujahideen belonging to different parties cooperate with each other and their joint action has stopped the enemy from expanding the control zone, jaji is vital for the Mujahideen because supply routes of the Mujahideen passe from the area.
                                      READY TO TALK WITH THE SOVIETS
 Recently Younis Khalis. the current spokesman of the Alliance, stated that Mujahideen are ready to talk directly to the Soviets to solve the problem of Afghanistan. Similar statements •"'ere also issued in the past few months by the other leaders of the resistance It is a principled position of the Mujahideen that there are tvo sides in the « conflict in Afghanistan: The Soviets as aggressors and the Mujahideen as the representatives of the people of Afghanistan. So they should set and talk about a political settlement.
 The Soviet? so far have not responded to those statements and emphasize the role of the puppet regime es the principal side and promote the idea of so-called national
 reconciliation.
 After six months of the announcement of that program, Soviets have realized that the program was a total failure. If Soviets are honest about finding a political solution to the problem they should abandon their empty pride and sit with the resistance and discuss the problems with them.
 If Soviets come to the table to discuss with a decision to recognize the right of the people of Afghanistan to self-de termination, withdraw all of their forces as soon as possible, give a guarantee not to interfere again, the rest of the problems which are of miner nar.ve could be solved vithout much difficulties. The key to the solution is with the Soviet?.
                                    INDIA'S ACTION A SOURCE OF CONCERN
 India violated international laws and created a crisis by sending its erir force in a so-called humanitarian mission to Sri Lanka There are problems in Sri Lanka the Tamil community has problems with the government and a civil war has been going on there for some time. But all that is taking place in a'country with recognized boundaries. Other people can be concerned about the people of Sri Lanka on moral basis and can put moral pressure on all sides to agree on a peaceful solution.
 But what India did, to air drop tons of stuff into Sri Lanka without the permission of its government end under the protection of war planes, to a gross violation of international lav and must be a source of worry for the international community.
 India considers itself a regional super power which tries to bully the small neighboring states. Looking back at the behavior of Indian governments, particularly the Indira family, it clearly seems that India supports aggression and even has acted as
 an aggressor itself.
 India supports the puppet regime of Cambodia and does not condemn Vietnam's invasion of that country. India does not condemn Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and is expanding its relations with the puppet regime in Afghanistan. In 1971 India invaded Pakistan and East Pakistan was separated to from a new country. Some small States in the Himalaya's were annexed to the Hindu empire. And now, interference in the affairs of Sri Lanka has taken open form. A country with a large population vhich has compiled a big arsenal of different arms and hes the support of another aggressor, the Soviet Union, could cause a big threat to peace.
 The world community should take the matter more seriously and let not the strong ones bully the weak ones to gain their hegemonistic aims.
HFMIPN NEUS VOL. Ill, NO. 12, 15/&? 190? PfiGE5
                                      DRA DELEGATION IN BAGHDAD
 The prime Minister of the puppet regime, Sultan Ali Keshtmand on the head of a delegation, entered Baghdad on a 4 day official visit on 4/6/1987. This is the first contact on such a high level betveen the balhist regime of Saddam Husain and at the puppet regime.
 The position of the Iraq regime in regard to the puppet regime has been vavering in the past ? years. Iraq sometimes voted for UN resolutions on Afghanistan and other times abstained from voting.
 The Saddam regime vhich invaded Iran is caught in a protracted var vith the Islamic republic of Iran has tried to get weapons from all sources, particularly from the Soviet Onion. A fev weeks ago Iraq regime signed a treaty of friendship vith the Soviets * vhich means support of the Soviets for the Iraq in the var against Iran. In return Saddam regime has started to change its previous policy tovards the invasion of Afghanistan and the invitation from a high ranking puppet regime is a step tovards implementation of that policy Saddam Husain also makes use of his good office to pave the road for the Soviet influence in other Gulf states.
                                      f
 The Iraq regime has taken this-step against the spirit of the resolutions of Islamic conference, Non-align movement and the UH. Nev ties vith a puppet regime vill not improve the condition of Iraq regime vhich is paying the price of hex aggression. This nev development also vill not benefit the puppet regime vhich lacks the support of the people or Afghanistan Thi 5 nev development can be a victory for the Soviets but never fox the puppet regime vhich is doomed to destruction anyway
                      SOVIET AIR DEFENSE BEATEN BY A BRAVE YOUNG PILOT
 A 19 years old German flev a single engine plane to the Soviet Union and landed it in Red Square in Moscov vithout being challenged by the Soviet air defense system. The incident caused a lot of concern among the Soviets and resulted the in retirement of the Soviet defense minister and sacking of some other military officials.
 The incident earned a lot of admiration for the courage of the young pilot and caused a lot of embarrassment for the Soviet leaders.
                                                 *
                                   AFGHAN JEHAD AND THE GULF WAR
 Tvo major tragedies of our times are going on presently in tvo adjacent lands. The Russian invasion of Afghanistan and the Iraqi invasion of Iran took place vithin a short interval of each other. Certainly both vars have produced great casualties and put a blackstain on the pages of modern history. The scale of the tov tragedies, hovever, is incomparable The victim of the Iraqi invasion, i.e„ Iran has 8 population at least three times larger than the invader and enjoys a much stronger economy, not vithstanding all the assistance that Iraq receives from various countries. The victim of the Russian invasion, i.e., Afghanisten, on the other hand, is a small country vith a poor population vho began their resistance vith almost empty hands and have carried on the var against a superpower for seven years against all odds.
 In the small "global village" of our times the eyents in one corner of the earth affect the events in the other corner. Thus, the Afghan Jehad and the Gulf var have certainly affected each other. A detailed analysis of the effects of the tvo vars on each other is beyond the scope of this short article. Vhat ve would like to do is to drav the attention of the reader to some of the negative impacts of the Gulf var on Afghanistan Jehad and varn against complicity vith the Russian 's misuse of the Gulf var.
 It is a vell-recogni2ed fact that the Russian invasion of Afghanistan forms that country 's first step (or perhaps third or forth step if ve take into account the history of the central Asia) in its forward march tovards the verm vaters of the Indian ocean
HFBHR1 ttMS l'C(_. Ill, NO. 12, tS/fc/ 1907 PftGC6
 and the oil fields of the Gulf. Even if that were not the case, all the peace and justice loving countries and especially the Muslim ones — had the responsibility to oppose the Russian's barbaric invasion of a small, non-aligned Muslim country. The strong condemnation of the invasion by the conference of Islamic states at the outset of the invasion was encouraging.
 Although not much practical measures were taken to force the Russians and their puppets to end their atrocities ageinst the Afghan people, the Mujahideen enjoyed the moral and political support of most of the Muslim countries until recently.
 Iran's relative success in its var against Iraq and the Russian propaganda efforts to present a nev image has changed the picture since the conference of the heads of the Muslim states in Kuwait in January of this year. The Amir of Kuwait personally read Gorbachev's message to the conference, the conference reluctantly allowed the « Mujahideen representative to speak in the conference end only then at improper times, the conference passed the weakest resolution about Afghanistan ever, the UAE and Oman established diplomatic and economic relations with the Soviet Union, Dubai established airlink with the puppet regime in Kabul, Saudi Arabia initiated diplomatic * contacts with the communists in Russia. The general secretary of the OIC made several trips to Moscow, Kuwiet purchased more arms from Soviet Union. Kuwiat invited the Russian naval force to the Gulf, and the “prime Minister" of the Kabul puppet regime made a trip to Baghdad for an agreement on economic co-operation with Baghdad.
 One wonders why the Arab governments are falling into the trap of Russian intrigues. Are they so stupid as not to see that they are digging their own graves by "rearing the serpent in their sleeves” (as the Persian expression goes)? Have they forgotten the history of Russian expansionism in the central Asia? Hove they turned blind and do not see what the atheist Red Army is doing to their religious brothers in Afghanistan?
 Or have they lost their religious faith and human conscience and the Russian atrocities do not bother them anymore.
 The Gulf countries have no reason to believe Russia when it states that it wants to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan. If it is sincere in its claim, why does it not take any practical measures? Vhy dres it intensify its barbarism (as it has done in recent week)? why does it extend the wer to the Pakistani territory? Vhy does it not recognize the fact that its puppets cannot exist without its support while Mujahideen constitute the real power in Afghanistan ? If it is afraid of the fate of its egents. it could take them away along with it. Moreover, Mujahideen have announced a general amnesty. If it is afraid that Afghanistan will become an anti-Russian base. Mujahideen have proclaimed that their future government will be non-aligned and will not allow any foreign bases in the country.
 The Gulf countries do not have any reason to seek superpower's protection because they feel threatened by Iran either, Iranians have announced time and again that they do not have intentions to expand beyond their own borders. If the Gulf countries cannot believe the Iranians -- who are their Muslim brothers and have established a nev regime which cannot be accused of breaching its promises — how could they believe the imperialist superpowers whose history is replete with expansionism at any means — including lying and treachery — when they claim they bring forces to the Gulf only to keep it open for navigation ?
 The Iran-Iraq war has provided Russia with the golden opportunity to penetrate the Arab countries We believe this golden opportunity has not arisen by chance but has come about by design Ve believe Russia was influential in inciting Saddam Husain to attack Iran. We believe Russia (with some other countries) have been instrumental in the prolongation of the war Ve believe Russia (together with the other superpower and the 2ionists) have been influential in Greeting fear of Iran in Arabs’ mind. Russia did all these in order to divert the attention from its invasion in Afghanistan and its atrocities there. It also designed those plots in order to be able to gain influence in those Arab countries that it had failed by playing the Israeli card.
 The future stage of the Russian plot will include increased economic and military aid.
HFDWttl tEWS VOL.Ill, HO.12, 15/6/ 1997 PRGE 7
 recruitment of puppet communist regimes. If the Gulf countries — especially Kuwait --can not read the writing on the wall, they deserve to be doomed.
 In the meantime, the Afghan Mujahideen will continue their sacred Jehad regardless of other countries' position towards their just cause. They are certain that they will liberate their country with the Help of God Almighty sooner or later. On that day they will remember these critical stages of their struggle. Moreover, history will record those who flinched in their opposition to oppression and injustice out of intimidation. More importantly, God Almighty will certainly question hard those who have failed to fulfill their religious and human responsibilities.
                                        A MESSAGE FROM JAMI*AT TO SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT IN POLAND
 To the freedom fighters of Poland,                                                 «
 The struggle of the Afghan Muslim nation against the Russian invasion and the inhuman idealogy of of communism is a glowing torch upholding the' cause of the oppressed people of the world. Our nation — together with other world people -- * watches the Polish nation's struggle against totalitarianism with firm determination in continuation of armed struggle and implacable faith in final victory.
 Ve feel ourselves close to you and consider 'Solidarity" as a manifestation of your nation's soldidarity with and support of our cause. Ve are glad to see that this support grows wider each year.
 Ve express our appreciation to the Polish activists for their splendid activities in defense of the godly oppressed people of Afghanistan in an atmosphere of repression this year.
 As we understand, on May 1,1987 —"May Day"— there were demonstrators in support of Afghanistan in most of the cities of your heroic land. A lot of the demonstration were sent to prisons of oppression and tyranny.
 Earlier, on February 13.1987, the organization for'' Freedom and Peace" staged an open protest rally against torture in Afghanistan in Kracow. The "Resistance Group" has been active by publishing underground publications, books and stamps in support of the Afghan people’s struggle.
 The Afghan Mujahid nation appreciate your eff orts and self-sacrifice and believes that they are helpful in our struggle. The Afghan Resistance keeps the Afghan people informed about the situation in Poland and the goals of Solidarity in its radio programs and publications.
 Ve believe the nations which have risen up for certain ideals will reach victory sooner or later. Ho satanic power, nor any repression nor pressure, neither murder nor terror are able to break down a nations's determination.
 Ve believe that the One and only God will certainly fulfill His promise. The Holy Quran gives us the glad-tiding that" The Truth came and the Falsehood is annihilated. Indeed the Falsehood is bound to annihilation."
 Rejection of imperialism is not the only common bond between the struggle of the two nations of Afghanistan and Poland. Positive bonds also brings us close to each other: Belief in One Creator as well as religious . moral and spiritual values. It is upon us to hold each other's hands in order to shorten our distance to victory and to break the walls of silence.
 It is absolutely necessary to reveal the Soviet crimes at the world-wide level in the same way that Hitler's crimes were revealed. Vhat an honor and felicity that with the acceptance of innumberable hardships two oppressed nations play a constructive historical role in this regard.