                                                                         ..‘..V..y....*“*“....
 Vol 6, No 13                                                                    July   1,1990
r
                       Scholars advise AIG on polls
    A delegation of former ranking Afghan officers, now in exile, have reached Peshawar to discuss various aspects of the Afghan problem with the AIG, in a bid to find a solution to the problem.
    The delegation has been invited by Prof. Mojaddidi, President of the AIG. Invitation letters were sent to 30 Afghans in Europe, America, Middle East, Iran and Pakistan.
    The delegates include: former Prime Minister, Dr. Yousuf; former Deputy Prime Minister, Samad Hamid; former senior diplomat. Dr. Farhadi; former Minister, Kushkaki; and former diplomat. Dr. Abdul Hakim Tabibi. In the same time period, a delegation of the newly formed Wahdat Party, based in Iran, arrived in Peshawar for consultation with the AIG.
    Holding elections for the formation of a broad-based government is the main topic on the agenda.
    The delegations will discuss various aspects of the issue, trying to evolve formulas to deal with them.
    If they agree cm a formula for a political solution, it will have a tremendous impact on the current situation, since most opponents to the Najib regime are represented.
                                                 Council doctors fight malaria
    The Health Committee of the North Zone of SC has begun mosquito eradication in Taliqan city to protect people from malaria, the main problem in the area.
    Taliqan is an agricultural area primarily producing rice. Still water provides an opportunity for mosquitoes to breed easily. This is the first effort to fight malaria since the Communist coup of 1978.
i • -m■ w •                                                                               1                       1
     The nine Iran-based Mujahideen parties are merged in a new organization called Hezb-e-Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity Party).
     The new party was announced in Tehran, June 16.
     A leader of the Wahdat party said in Peshawar the work to unify Shia parties started last Summer. He said the Shia parties have been able to solve their problems inside and outside Afghanistan.
     It is believed that when the Shia parties were not given the representation they wanted in the Consultative Council in Rawalpindi, they decided to unite to strike a better deal for the Shia community in any political solution. The Rawalpindi Council formed the Afghan Interim Government,
     banian authorities have played a key role in twinging unity among Shia parties.
     Shia parties, like the Peshawar-based parties, are composed of traditional and radical groups. The unity of Shia parties might save as a model to unite Peshawar based parties. Abdul Ali Mazari hlas been appointed spokesman of the new party. Since the party
 leader has not yet been announced, it might be run by a council rather by single leader.
     Abdul Ali Mazari held a press conference in Peshawar on June 24, in which he outlined the election formula he brought with him. Mazari said instead of choosing a representative from each district, his party proposed choosing a representative for every 70,000 voters. Shia parties complain that the districts in Afghanistan are of different sizes. The former government created the districts to suit their politics.
     He opposed any role of the OIC in supervising elections, and,.instead, proposed supervision of elections by the UN, Pakistan and Iran. He accused the OIC of harboring a bias, an indirect reference to the influence Saudi Arabia in that oiganization.
     He opposed the participation of communists in the elections. When asked, Iran did not object to the participation of selected people from the Kabul regime. He said his party followed an independent policy.
     Mazari said Zahir Shah could take part in the election if he wanted because he was a Muslim and an Afghan.
Supervisory Council, Wahdat party
                                                                                         to cooperate w
    Representatives of the Supervisory Council (SC) of Jami'at and Hezb Wahdat Islami have agreed to coordinate military and political activities.
    Hezb Wahdat Islami is a merger of nine Shia parties based in Iran. This new party7 was formed some months ago.
  . The document signed by both sides say that unity among the Mujahideen organization is necessary. It attempts to deal with the conspiracies of the regime, to foil outsider's attempts at preventing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, and to give
      one another
 a new life to the military and political activities of the Mujahideen.
     The two sides have agreed to coordinate their political activities and to escalate the war against the regime. They have also decided to cooperate in the cultural field.
     The document was signed by Mustafa Kazimi, a member of the Central Council of Wahdat party and Eng. Mir Husain, a member of the Political Committee of SC.
     The two sides have agreed to prepare a meeting between the head of the SC, Ahmad Shah Masood and leaders of Wahdat party.
     Ahmad Shah Masood has called the agreement a positive development which will benefit the people of Afghanistan!.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
   News
ittf
From The Battlefields
Kabul Province
     The Mujahideen under the command of Faqir Mohammad captured the headquarters of the Qarabagh district on June 22, The military office of jami'at Islami reported.
    The Mujahideen captured 300 soldiers and seized six tanks and armored cars, two trucks, 10 RPG-7 rocket launchers, eight PK machine-guns, 200 Kalashnikov rifles and a large quantity of ammunition. Details of the casualties of the both sides were not immediately available.
    The siege of Qarabagh began 10 days before its fall. The Mujahideen first captured five security posts, located in the villages surrounding the garrison. Qarabagh is located 25 kilometers north of the Kabul city along the Kabul-Hahatan highway.
    This is the second important district liberated by Mujahideen forces within a week. Chemtal District in Balkh Province was liberated by the Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council of the North on June 15.
    • Fifteen soldiers and three officers of the regime were killed and one armored car was destroyed by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Quli Maidan area of Paghman on June 18, Commander Mullah Ezat reported.
    The communist fences had launched the attack to capture the area but were forced to retreat.
     Ghore Province
    The Mujahideen killed 16 militiamen- of the regime in Shahrak district on June 10.
    The militiamen headed by Ebrahim Big attacked the areas controlled by the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, causing material losses to the
    Balkh province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated Chemtal District on June 15, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    The Mujahideen killed 15 enemy soldiers and captured the governor of the district, its military commander and some soldiers.
    In battle, lasting for two hours, one tank, one 2PU-1 machine-gun and the building of the district headquarters were destroyed. The Mujahideen seized 100 guns, one truck and some ammunition.
    The attack was launched under the command of Mawlawi Alam, Jami'at chief commander in the province. Chemtal is located about 15 kilometers west of the provincial capital of Mazar-i-Sharif.
    The regime forces tried to re-recapture Chemtal but Mujahideen forces repelled their attack.
    • The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed 13 soldiers and officers, wounded 10 and captured eight, when whey attacked the Border Regiment of the regime. They seized six guns, three radios and some ammunition;
    Faryab Province
    Eighteen soldiers were captured, and nine guns and one rocket launcher were seized, when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the regime security posts, 10 kilometers north of Maimana, provincial capital of the Faryab , on June 1st, HINA reported. The attack was launched under the command of Sayyed Allauddin. Two Mujahideen were wounded.
  Ningarhar province
    The Mujahideen crippled the Darunta hydro-electric power plant, 10 kilometers west of Jalalabad on June 12, MIDIA reported.
    Destruction of the plant cut the supply of electricity to the city of Jalalabad which is besieged by the Mujahideen.
    The operation has made fife difficult for regime garrisons in the city which relied on electricity from Darunta. The heat, which hovers around 40°C, and mosquitoesshould make the defenders of the city miserable, should they escape Mujahideen firing.
 Samangan province
    A jet belonging to the Kabul regime crashed about 15 kilometers away from the city of Samangan on May 29, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    The pilot who ejected, was captured by the Mujahideen when he landed in Lake Gana village. The pilot, whose identity was not revealed, was armed with a pistol.
    The source did not say wether the plane crashed itself, or it was shot
                                               Soviet plane shot down
    A Soviet transport plane was forced to crash land after it was hit by a Mujahideen missile over the Salang highway on June 12, the BBC reported.
    The Soviet AN-76 was one of at least 20 planes bringing daily supplies to Kabul from Tashkent.
    The missile hit a machine, debilitating the hydraulic system that operate the landing mechanism. The pilot was forced to land the plane on it’s belly. Two crew members of the plane were injured during landing.
    The plane was carrying 20 tons of fuel, which could have been liquid explosive for SCUD missiles stationed in Kabul.
    Earlier, the Kabul regime declared the Mujahideen were planing to shoot down Soviet transport planes in the area.
 Heat kills 54 refugees
    Severe heat has killed at least 54 refugees in the camps near Peshawar, MIDIA reported. Most victims of the heat wave are children and the elderly. In the past few days temperatures in Peshawar rose to 113 F° (45 Q. Power cuts (load-shedding) during the day added to the misery of the refugees.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
  Tears cure better than blood
    A certain king had a terrible disease, the nature of which it is not proper to mention. A number of Greek physicians agreed, that there was no other remedy for this disease, but the gall of man, of some particular description. The king ordered one to be sought for, and they found a peasant's son with the properties which the physicians had described. The king sent for the lad's father and mother, and by offering a great reward gained their consent; the cazy (judge) decreed it lawful to shed the blood of a subject for the benefit of restoring the monarch's health.
    The executioner prepared to put him to death, upon which the youth turned his eyes towards heaven, and laughed. The king asked, "What there could be in his present condition, which could possibly excite mirth." He replied, "Children look to their parents for affection, a suit is referred, to the cazy, and justice is expected from the monarch. Now my father and mother, seduced by vain worldly consideration, having consented to the shedding of my blood, the judge having sentenced me to die, and the king, for the sake of his own health, having consented to my death, where am I to seek refuge excepting in the high God? Unto whom shall I prefer my suit, since it is against you that I seek justice?" The king's heart was troubled at these words, tears stood in his eyes, and he said, "It is better for me to die, than that the blood of an innocent person should be shed." He kissed his head and eyes, and embraced him, and after bestowing considerable gifts, set him at liberty. They say also that in the same week the king was cured of his distemper.
    In application to this, I recall the verse which the elephant driver rehearsed on the banks of the river Nile. "If you are ignorant of the state of the ant under your, foot, know that it resembles your own condition, under the foot of the elephant."
                                                                                    From Gulistan of Shaikh Sa'di
                         Prof. Rabbani sends condolence message to Iranian leaders
    Jami'at              leader,
 Burhanuddin Rabbani expressed sorrow for the loss of thousands of Iranian lives in the devastating earthquake of 21st June, 1990.
    In a condolence message to the leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran , Rabbani said he and all other Afghans share the grief of their Iranian brothers and sisters.
    The earthquake killed more than 60,000 and injured tens of thousands in Gailan and Zanjan province,, with hundred of thousands homeless. To deal with the devastation, Iran has asked for, and received, international support.
    For all Afghans, sympathy for the Iranian people is natural. Iran is a neighbor hosting at least two million Afghan refugees. It has supported the
 struggle of Afghans for self-determination, and Religious, linguistic and historic ties bind the two nations.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Too many butchers spoiled the cow.
Meaning: Too many cooks spoil the broth.
He has soaked a hundred heads (preparing them for shaving), but hasn't shaved one.
Meaning: Used of a person who starts a lot but does not finish and so has many monuments to unfinished business.
                                                                                                                           juQ wl
The potter drinks water from a broken jug.
Meaning: Used of a physician who . does not heal himself, or of one who helps others but doesn't help himself.
     tfj'A                * <SJjl
A hungry person hears the sounds of bread being prepared.
                                                                                                                     (j\flJuy
When man is perplexed God is beneficent. .
 Meaning: God comes at last when we think he is farthest off.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page Q
  Editorial
V.
 Signs from war fronts encouraging
    Recent Mujahideen gains on the battlefields are encouraging. Should they maintain momentum, the military situation will develop favorably for the resistance, with a healthy impact on the political situation.
    The communist supply convoy to Kandahar has been stopped in Ragistan, between Kandahar and Helmand for two months. The enemy's repeated attempts to open the road have failed . Despite hot weather, aerial bombardment and flat terrain, the Mujahideen prevented the convoy from reaching the city of Kandahar, and inflicted heavy casualties on it. If the Kabul regime succeeded in its mission, it would have gained propaganda leverage against the Resistance.
    The bravery of our Freedom Fighters against the repeated attacks on regime forces in Paghman, 20 kilometers west of the city of Kabul, is a remarkable achievement. The Mujahideen launched attacks from that vantage point against regime targets in Kabul. The Kabul regime attempted in vain to push the Mujahideen out of the area. Attacks were launched and claims were made that the resistance was thrown from the Paghman Valley. The Mujahideen still control major parts of Paghman and continue to harass regime military installations in Kabul. Fighting between Mujahideen and regime forces still continues in Paghman to this day.
    The liberation of one sub-district and two districts is also a good development for the Mujahideen. The Istalif sub-District was liberated some weeks ago. Qarabagh District was liberated a week ago. They are situated in Kabul province, only 30 kilometers from the city of Kabul.
    Chemtal District in Balkh Province was also recently liberated by Mujahideen forces. In this liberation, Jami’at Islami played a key role.                                          -
    An important factor in achieving these victories was the unity of action among the Mujahideen. Should the Mujahideen retain this unity, they have the; potential to raise the level of fighting against the Kabul regime with available resources.
    Military victories are very important to the Mujahideen for various reasons. The Kabul regime claims that the majority of commanders have stopped fighting the regime and are inclined towards compromise with it.
    The people of Afghanistan, who supported the Mujahideen in their struggle, need assurance that the Mujahideen can win militarily. They expected a Mujahideen victory after the Soviet troops withdrawal. Failure to meet supporter’s expectations created doubts about our abilities. Through military achievement, the Mujahideen can rebuild confidence in themselves. Such assurance is necessary to retain outside support.
    The Mujahideen victories will also decrease the Soviet's confidence in the ability of their puppet to retain power. Once the Soviets realize the intrinsic weaknesses in their client government, they might give a second thought to further investment in Najib. It could pave the road to a political solution, in which the right of Afghans to self determination is guaranteed.
I
     Panjshir During the War is the title of a book recently published by the young Afghan writer, Abdul Hafiz Mansoor.
     The bode, written in Dari - the native language of the writer, is 171 pages, supplemented with rare pictures of the people involved in the struggle.
     The writer, bom in the Panjshir, chose to write about the fighting in that area in the early years of the war. He interviews fighters and commanders involved in the war, gleaning information about their experiences. After taking refuge in Pakistan, he often traveled to the Panjshir, keeping in touch with developments in the valley.
     The first chapter of the book deals with the Panjshir's distinct geographical structure and its people. Following chapters describe in detail the 1975 Panjshir uprising against Daud, including names of most of those involved in it.
     The accounts of the 1979 uprising against the communist regime undo* the leadership of Masood sets the main theme of the rest of the book.
     The writer reviews seven offen sives launched against the valley, tactics used on each side, and casualties.
     The Panjshir's importance as < Mujahideen base and the exemplary organizational structure of the Mujahideen is discussed briefly.
     The humanitarian aspects of the war are not forgotten. The plight of the refugees during the seventh offensive is discussed in full detail, as the author was among them.
     The writer sheds light on the 1983 cease-fire between Masood and the Soviets, giving reasons for the one year arrangement.
      One might criticize the writer for his lack of objectivity. As a young child he saw his civilian relatives gunned down by Soviet troops without reason; his village totally destroyed. Criticism of the Soviets comes naturally to him.
     Such a small weakness does not decrease the value of his honest attempts to portray the heroic struggle of the people of the Panjshir Valley against a ruthless super power.
     For a high-school graduate, a book of such quality is a major achievement
     The book can be ordered from
     Jami'at Political Office
     P.O. Box 264 G.P.O, Peshawar.
     Its price outside Pakistan is 5 US $
      including mailing costs.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
                                 Commander Fazl Haq
    Fazl Haq, Jami'at Islami commander in Charkh District, played an important role in the liberation of Charkh in 1979.
    His Mujahideen killed 17 Soviet soldiers and destroyed two tanks, when the Soviet troops launched a surprised attack on his native village, Bandoka, In 1987.
    He killed 16 enemy soldiers, who set an ambush against the Mujahideen in Shaikh Umar area in 1988. The enemy attempted to ambush a Mujahideen supply convoy passing through Charkh. When Fazl Haq learned of the enemy's intention, he attacked them to avert a tragedy.
    Fazl Haq was bom 38 years ago in
 Bandoka village, Charkh District His father, Fazl Ahmad, a Tajik, was a religious scholar.
      He completed his primary and high school education in Charkh. Fazl Haq was a student of the Faculty of Economics of the Kabul University when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He promptly left the university without completing his studies and joined the Mujahideen. He joined Jami'at through Dr. Fazlullah, the leading Jami'at commander in Logar.
      Cmdr. Fazl Haq has been privileged to perform Hajj, the Islamic pilgrimage to Mecca. He is married and has four children.
Commander Nabi
    Mohammad Nabi, known as Amir Nabi, is the Jami'at commander in Mohammad Agha District, leading about 50 Mujahideen.
    Cmdr. Nabi has taken part in many operations against both the Kabul regime and Soviet forces.
    Nabi’s Mujahideen played an active role in an attack on Pul-i-Alam, inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy in 1988.
    His Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrison at Mohammad Agha, setting afire a logistical depot and a clinic, and killing or wounding several soldiers in 1986.
     Cmdr. Nabi killed several Soviet soldiers, capturing one when the Soviets launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Deh Naw, in 1985. The captured soldier was later exchanged for a Mujahideen commander imprisoned by the Soviets.
French Embassy in Kabul re-opened
    The French embassy in Kabul reopened on June 17. The decision to re-open the embassy was taken some months ago by French President Mitterrand, but the coup by General Tanai postponed, the opening.
    The French embassy was closed in February, 1989, as the Soviets were preparing to complete the withdrawal of their troops. At that time the Western countries, worried about the deteriorating situation, removed their diplomats for security reasons.
    France's decision has pleased the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime, since it is a public relations coupe d’etat.. A communique from the regime foreign ministry described the
 re-opening of the French Embassy in glowing terms as a "realistic approach to the Afghan situation”.
      The Kabul Regime hopes that such a move will persuade other European countries to re-open their diplomatic missions. Italy might be the first country to follow suit.
      French authorities have played down the importance of their decision. They say re-opening of the embassy does not imply recognition of the Kabul regime, with only the consular section of the embassy functioning. Furthermore, they insist their presence in Kabul is a first-hand source of information.
     He was bom 30 years ago in a Tajik family in the center of Mohammad Agha district.
     His father, Haji Ahmad Shah, woiked as a storekeeper of the Coal Authority of the Ministry of Mining and Industry in Pul-i-Khumri, Baghlan province.
     Nabi attended primary and high schools in Zarghoon Shahr. When He was a high school student the communist coup took place. He sympathized with the Mujahideen and, in danger of being arrested by the regime, he left school to join them.
     He and his father came to Peshawar, and Jami'at armed them to fight against the communists.
     He is married and has three children. His family live as refugees in Pakistan.
      Waii Rhan,the leader of National Democratic Party of Pakistan, has regaled that Bng. iJSkhiatyar had agreed to meet with
 regime- Hikmatyar had met: with
                            coup.
 ...Wait Khan m bbc
 Hikmatyar’s cooperation with Tanai prevented the meeting between Bezb leader and N^bubah,

      Peter Tomsen, US envoy to the Afghan resistance told voice - of America that the United States con sidered the fprm^t king, Mohammad Zabir Shah, to be part of the Afghan
   i Western News agencies reported that a truck exploded on June I0r hear ; the ministry of' Dc&adtce itl Kabul '
    The wreckage of the truck was aflame, and buildings were damaged lf)0 meters a^yvlRegii^ swrees fuse to ^scmss tb^ ca^titie^ inthe incident and the cause of explosion.
    Regime foreign minister, Abdul Wakil, told reporters In India that very soon the Mujahideen die Kabul regime will meet to discuss Afghan problem. He said secret talks between the two sides were in
 =.:I:?A"?'"
    A regime pilot was exchanged for two Arabs in Kandahar* June 8.
    The pilot was captured two months ago in Dand district* QapK
      U is not known who organized the prisoners exchange. No informal don w
  the Arabs released.                ■
                               mm
  German pilot jtiega8y entered] Afghanistan and landed in Herat, se-| girae radio reported-               I
      The source did not give farthen
  [landing of a light plane flown by I Mathias Rust in Moscow Red Square!
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ®
Mujahideen final winners of war in Afghanistan
     Afghanistan is a wonderland. One of its wonders is that most predictions about it prove false.
     In the last ten years two important predictions about Afghanistan were wrong; the first prediction being the victory of the Soviet Union over the Mujahideen.
     When the Soviet army invaded Afghanistan in December, 1979, most predicted a Soviet victory within a short period of time. Subsequent events proved them wrong. The Soviets left Afghanistan without a victory, and the resistance emerged stronger than ever.
     The second prediction - die fall of the Kabul regime immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal - proved to be wishful thinking. After 16 months the Najibullah regime still retains power in Kabul.
     Now that the second prediction has been negated, questions arise concerning future developments in Afghanistan. They arc: How long the war will continue? Who will win? For an answer, we must discuss both the strong and weak points of the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen.
 The Najib regime passed muster when it survived the year after the Soviet withdrawal. This gave the regime self-confidence, making the Soviet Union more determined than ever in it's unqualified support In addition to it's survival, the Kabul regime has other advantages, such as:
     •a regular army with many years of experience
     •control in the capital of the country
     •support from a reliable friend, the Soviet Union.
     The Kabul armed forces are equipped with the most sophisticated weapons. It has a command structure withll years experience. Although the regime army is not in position to launch major offensive operations, because of low morale and shortages in manpower, it can fight a defensive war, the present strategy of the regime.
     The government's structure and control of the capital works in favor of the regime. Its UN membership and diplomatic relations with some countries puts the regime in a better position than the Mujahideen.
     Soviet support for the regime is vital for its survival. Its commitment has astounded the world, sending 400
 million dollar in military aid, and supplying Kabul with food and fuel, despite tremendous economic problems at home.
     The regime suffers from many weak points some of which are:
     • Partial control over territory
     •Shortage of manpower
     •Dependence on outside support
     •Internal differences
     • Image problem
     More than 80 percent of the land and tfye majority of the Afghan population live outside the control of the Kabul regime.
     The Regime. controls Kabul and the center of some provinces. The territory controlled by the regime are small Islands surrounded by a sea of resistance-controlled areas. Partial control over these territories prevent the regime from launching major offensive attacks.
     Another problem the regime faces is a shortages of combat personnel for major offensives. Najibulah cannot re-
   By: Mohammad Es'haq
 emit enough men. In order to fill the gap, the regime is offering high salaries for those who join militia forces. Thus, the regime relies increasingly on these mercenary groups, which are even used to defend Kabul itself.
    Internal differences within the ruling party is a major weakness of the regime. These differences have continued despite the regime’s continuity, and repeated efforts by the Soviets to bring unity among different communist factions have failed. These differences have led to massive infighting. General Tanai's coup was the result of the internal strife between the Khalq and Parcham faction of the ruling party.
    Bad image is a major disadvantage of the Kabul regime. A majority of Afghans hold it responsible for the tragedy in the country, and its image continues as the puppet of Soviet imperialism. The ruling party is still considered a communist organ, and its leaders perceived as non-Muslims. Afghans still call the armed struggle against the Kabul regime Jehad, the holy war.
    The Kabul regime is fully aware of these weakness. It has tried to change peoples views through introducing superficial change, but after a decade of war, it will be difficult for us to believe in their sincerity.
    The regime suffers from a total dependence on the Soviets for military and economic assistance. Without
 Soviet military assistance the regime war machine would grind to a halt. At the moment the Soviet Union is training regime officers, is providing military hardware, and its 500 advisors devise military strategy.
     The Kabul regime tries, with the help of the Soviet Union, to decrease the economic burden of the war through assistance from the United Nations reconstruction funds.
 Operation Salaam benefits the Kabul regime greatly. UN goods coming through the Soviet Union reach only regime militias. The other side in the conflict have not benefited to such an extent.
     The Mujahideen gained a reputation for bravery against Soviet forces, but their failure to oust the Kabul regime after the Soviet withdrawal raises questions about their future role in running Afghanistan.
     The strong points of the Mujahideen are:
   . *A vast popular support •control of most land and a majority of the population
     • limited economic self-sufficiency • considerable experience in irregular warfare
     • one unifying ideal - the fall of the Kabul regime.
     It is difficult to differentiate between the ordinary Afghan people and the Mujahideen, as the people and the Mujahideen are two faces of the same coin. A prominent French expert on Liberation Movements once visited Afghanistan, and at the end of his stay he remarked upon the populism of the Mujahideen, which he had not seen in any other part of the world.
     The Soviets tried to create a gap between the ordinary people and the Mujahideen but their strategy failed Indiscriminate bombardments of the liberated areas to force the depopulation of major parts of the country, made the resistance more popular.
     After the Soviet troops withdraw al, the Mujahideen maintained popular support, but political and military achievements are necessary to maintain future support.
     One advantage the Mujahideen have over the regime is control of 80 percent of the country's territory, including locations of strategic and economic significance. Transportation routes used by the resistance to friendly neighboring countries are safer than in the past and transportation by vehicles is common.
     This gives die Mujahideen more
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
 opportunity for military maneuvers to attack the roads and major cities, should they wish.
     The Mujhid lifestyle makes them economically self-sufficient The Mujahideen retain control of farmlands. People in liberated areas are self sufficient. Electricity is not necessary in the countryside, and pack animals could be used for transportation. Because of this simple rustic lifestyle, the Mujahideen are economically self-sufficient.
     The Mujahideen are united in the idea of throwing out the communist regime from power. Regime efforts to persuade the Mujahideen into compromise have proved unsuccessful.
     The Mujahideen’s experience in guerrilla warfare has made them a formidable force. The Kabul regime may survive for sometime, but to. wipe out the resistance, and establish its rule over all Afghanistan will be impossible. The regime is aware of these problems, and because of this claims there could be no military solution. After attempts to move on to a conventional phase, the Mujahideen have resorted to old guerrilla tactics. Future tactical changes will come as a natural part of development of the war.
     The Mujahideen suffer from some shortcoming which has delayed their victory. Some of these shortcomings are:
     •Lack of unity
     •Lack of experience in conventional warfare
     •Dependence on outside support
     •Lack of political and military organization to compete with the Kabul regime.
 Alack of unity among the Mujahideen is a major problem. On the military front, the Mujahideen do not have a single high command to coordinate activities and evolve a workable strategy to win the war. Lack of coordination on a national level is not forcing the Kabul regime to fight in several fronts at the same time. Although in some regions the Mujahideen cooperate with each other, total coordination only comes when a single high command is formed..
     Work towards the creation of a high command has begun. If these efforts are supported by the political parties, a military unity will be achieved in the future.
     The Mujahideen also lack the necessary unity In the political front The formation of the Afghan Interim Government was an attempt to unify opponents of the regime. For various reasons it never achieved its goal.
     The Mujahideen have no experi-
 ence in convention warfare with which to attack cities. This can only be achieved through training a regular force.
     Dependence of the resistance on the outside military and humanitarian assistance is another source of weakness. After the Soviet troops withdrawal the world's interest has faded from the cause. The countries supporting the Mujahideen now look for a way out of the problem.
 Such an attitude from supporters of the resistance might result on pressure on the Mujahideen to accept a deal detrimental to its goal of self determination. After examining the strength and weaknesses of both sides, we can answer the two questions asked earlier.
     The regime cannot win because of its narrow political base, partial control over key territory and chronic shortages of manpower. These shortcomings are not easily curable. They prevent the regime from launching large offensives to relieve the cities from Mujahideen pressure, and expand its control over the countryside.
     Furthermore, fighting a expensive defensive war for a long period of time with the support of an outside force is unthinkable. The Soviet Union's patience and 'generosity' has a limit. Mr. Gorbachev faces numerous problems at home and worries about his international image. Pouring large quantities of weapons into Kabul to prop up an unpopular regime indefinitely raises questions about the Soviet leader's intentions for world peace.
     Gorbachev's Afghan policy is being questioned at home. Why must the Soviet people, who face food shortage themselves, allow their leaders to give 400 million dollars a month to a regime which is not able to bring peace to Afghanistan. Assistance to the Kabul regime has obviously prolonged the war.
     The Mujahideen have a potential to win . Their difficulties are not so great as to prevent a final victory. The quicker they coordinate their activities, the sooner a victory will be achieved. Thus, all assistance to the Mujahideen, both militarily and politically, contributes to the return of peace in Afghanistan.
     To demonstrate this point, the Mujahideen have exposed the weak points of the Kabul regime. It will help if the Soviets realize their mistake in supporting Najibullah and cease wasting their time with unreasonable compromises favoring the communists. A coordinated military action against the regime will make the point.
 Kabul, Delhi sign economic accord
     The foreign minister of the Kabul regime, Abdul Wakil, signed an agreement on economic cooperation with the Indian government, during his five day visit to New Delhi beginning June 11.
     Wakil visited India at the head of a delegation to participate in the meeting of economic commission of the two countries.
     During his stay in India he met with the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of India.
     India is the closest ally of the Kabul regime after Soviet Union. The change of government in India has not changed the policy of that country towards Afghanistan.
     Wakil told reporters that he was satisfied with the policy of India towards Afghanistan.
     India is the main trading partner with the regime outside the communist block. After the Soviet troops withdrawal and changes in East Europe, Najibullah relies more heavily on Indian support.
     Pakistani support for the Afghan Mujahideen is resented by India. Indian policy towards Afghanistan is also shaped by its close ties with Moscow. Because of this, India failed to openly criticize the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
     The Prime Minister of India invited Najib to visit that country. The visit might take place after the Congress of the People's Democratic Party.
    Shelter Now compensated
    Shelter Now. International was compensated for damages inflicted to it by angry protester about two months ago. A cheque for Rs. S million (227,000 US dollars) was presented to the president of the committee, by the NWFP Chief Minister, in a meeting held in Nasir Bagh Refugees Camp . US and Australian ambassadors and workers of some relief organizations were present in the meeting.
    On June 16,1990, unidentified gunmen fired at Shelter Now President, Thor Armstrong's car. Both Armstrong and his son, who was in the car at the time, were not hurt. The incident has caused anxiety among foreign relief workers working in the NWFP.
    The AIG has soundly condemned violence against relief organization, since it hurts the cause of all Afghans.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 13, July 1,1990, page ©
                                             Prof. Rabbani visits Iran
    Jami'at             leader,
Burhanuddin Rabbani, paid a three-day visit to Tehran at the invitation of the foreign minister of the Islamic Republic, Dr. Welayati.
    Prof. Rabbani and Dr. Welayati discussed the latest situation in Afghanistan and exchanged views about a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
    Iran supports the struggle of Afghans for the right of self-determination. It also serve as the host of about two million Afghan refugees.
    Iran has shown interest in solving the problem through holding elections. The Mujahideen oppose the participation of communists in elections. They consider communists participation as submission to the national reconciliation program of the regime.
    Iran wants a greater role for the UN in finding a political solution to the problem. Recently, Dr. Welayati discussed the Afghan problem with Pakistan officials, including Prime Minister Bhutto.
                                                  US envoy informs Rabbani about last summit
    US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, Peter Tomsen, met with Prof. Rabbani in Jami'at's Political Office on June 23.
    Tomsen briefed Rabbani about the Washington summit where Afghanistan was discussed at length between the superpowers. The two sides also discussed the political and humanitarian aspects of the problem. Tomsen met earlier with AIG President, Prof. Sebghatullah Mujahiddidi.
    Tomsen has come to Pakistan at a time when the AIG is discussing election plans with a delegation of Afghans from the West. A delegation from the Iran-based parties also met in Peshawar to discuss the issue of forming a representative government of the resistance.
    The second refund of commanders meetings, a Shura, is being held in Paktia, to bring unity between the Mujahideen.
Communism:
The enemy of God, man and nature
    Habibur Rahman £o
    Communism waged a war against God, man and. nature but lost it in all the three fronts.
    The enmity of communism to God and religion is not a secret. Communism, founded on the philosophy of dialectic materialism, defies the existence of God and ridicules religious practice.
    Communists attempt to intimidate all believers in God from religious services. Humiliation of religions books, destruction of worship places, anti-religious propaganda and persecution of believers have taken place in every country run by communists.
    Despite it's use of force over several decades, the communists could not win the unholy war against God and religion. Uprisings in East Europe, Soviet Union, China and the rest of the world against communism have a strong religious element to them.
    Religion is winning the war slowly. As the offices of communist parties are ransacked by angry people, and communist parties change their name to avoid popular reactions, places of worship are gaining life. Momentum grows as more people practice their faith.
     Communism has been the source of many tragedies for the human race. It preaches justice and equality for all, yet when power is imposed, the worst type of dictatorship automatically forms. Communists have been responsible for numerous crimes against humanity in the Soviet Union, China, East Europe, Vietnam, Afghanistan,
 Cambodia, and other places they have ruled.
     The discovery of mass grave in Soviet Union, the plight of the Vietnamese boat people, and the tragedy of Afghanistan are ample illustrations of the enmity of communism against humanity.
     Afghanistan is an excellent case-in-point. A small group of local communist seize power through military coup. When opposed by the people the Soviet army intervened to support the Marxist revolution in Kabul.
     In ten years of war more than a million people were killed, 75 percent of the country has been destroyed and one third of its population became refugees.
      It is not surprising to see millions of people rise against communism and want to get ride themselves of it. Despite attempts at prolonging then-rule under an alias, they are loosing the war against man.
      Nature also suffers from communist rule. A recent meeting of the ministers of East and West Europe revealed the pollution in Eastern Europe to be a serious environmental threat.
     Communist regimes exploit mineral resources and built factories, ignoring the effects on environment and people.
     Citizens lack freedom to protest, and governments won’t answerable to its people. Communist regimes control the media, preventing the outside world from knowing about the danger they posed to the environment.
     At the termination of absolute Communist rule in Eastern Europe, more information was available to the free world about die damages inflicted by hazardous waste, and the grave consequence to our planet incurred through die irresponsible activities of the past Communist regimes.
   -----------------------
                                                                       ☆ (I
                                                                  zi/ishes a happy
                                                               ‘Eid-uC-ftdha
                              to its Muslim readers

Vol 6, No 14
                            US, Soviet Ministers to discuss Afghan issue in Paris
     US and Soviet foreign ministers might discuss the Afghan issue on July 18 in Paris. The two foreign ministers agreed in their meeting in Berlin on June 22 that the Soviet Union and American experts should meet before the Paris meeting in Washington to discuss the problem. But for somfe unknown reasons the meeting of the experts has been postponed for two weeks.
     US Foreign Minster James Baker told Congress on June 13 that only "very, very narrow differences" separate the two sidds on the Afghanistan issue.
     Both sides agree on a transitional period and holding elections to solve the issue but differ on the role of Najibullah in the transitional phase.
     The meeting of the experts in Washington might discuss details of the transitional phase.
     The US is in contact with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia about the issue and the US special envoy to the Afghan Resistance came to Peshawar to inform the Mujahideen leaders about the Washington summit. But the US contact with the Mujahideen is on the level of an exchange of views.
     There are differences of views be-about the participation of Najib in the
 proposed elections. All the Mujahideen
 groups are opposed to the participation
 of the ruling party in the elections.
     The US on the other hand has said it is not opposed to the participation of Najibullah and his party in elections. The Mujahideen find the US position contradictory to what that country did in the case of Nazis. The US did not permit Nazis to take part in the West Germany elections after World War II because of their role in the war. In the eyes of the Resistance, Najibullah and his party are worse than Nazis, because they are responsible for the killing of more than a million of their own people.
July 15,1990
          Afghan scholars recommend new body, fresh strategy to topple Najib regime
     A group of Afghan scholars who came to Peshawar at the invitation of the AIG has proposed the formation of a new political system for the opponents of the regime and adoption of a new strategy to solve the Afghan issue.
     More than 20 scholars and ranking officers of the former king who live in exile, met in Peshawar from June 16 to 30 to advise the AIG about ways of getting out of the present stalemate situation.
     In their proposal, presented to the AIG president, they called the present situation very sensitive, needing a new strategy. The proposal said besides the continuation of the armed struggle against the Kabul regime the Resistance needs to pay attention to the political aspects of the war.
     The proposal criticized the AIG because of its failure to: move its headquarters into Afghanistan; to topple the Kabul regime and to bring all the resistance groups into its fold. It stresses the need for a new political situation and a new strategy to get rid of the Kabul regime and establish a representative mation of a body to represent all Afghans opposed to the Kabul regime is recommended.
     The proposal says if the AIG agrees with such a change, they are ready to work for the creation of the new political system.
     The delegation has asked the AIG to express its views about the proposal within a month.
     Although the proposal is not very clear about an alternative to the present political system, the members of the delegation have revealed their way of thinking about the future by talking to the media.
     They want that a council from the representatives of all Mujahideen par-
 ties, some people in Kabul and the officials of the former government should be formed . The council should meet in a neutral country and give shape to the new strategy.
     The members of the delegation have favored the formation of a neutral government for a transitional period. The transitional period is estimated up to three years. The transitional government should be formed from people who are neither with the Kabul regime nor with the Mujahideen.
     Such a government should pave the way for elections. They have not re jected the participation of the Kabul regime elections.
     They believe such a setup will be acceptable to the Soviet Union and Najib will be forced to accept it because it can not survive without the Soviet support.
     The delegation met with the members of the AIG Cabinet, leaders of the political parties, some commanders and a group of Ulamas.
     A group of students staged a demonstration in front or the Hotel where they stayed. They raised anti-American and anti-Zahir Shah slogans. The dem onstration was organized by Hezb
     It seems that the proposal of the delegation is not acceptable to most of the Mujahideen parties within and out side the AIG.
     The proposal makes some people believe that the delegation wants to bring Zahir Shah to power.
     A group of UlamaS have criticizec the invitation of former officials to visit Peshawar because they identify them with the policies that led to the communist take over in Afghanistan.
     The members of the delegation have returned home waiting for the AIG formal response. The AIG cabinet met discussed the proposal and found no specific solution of the problem in it.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ©
    News
From The Battlefields
   Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council captured six posts, destroyed 14 tanks and trucks and set on fire one jet fighter and killed many enemy soldiers when they launched attacks on them in several places along the Salang highway on June 27, HINA reported.
    The Mujahideen captured six security posts of the regime in the Salang Valley. The soldiers stationed in the posts whose numbers are not known were captured.
    Several other posts were also attacked and heavy losses were inflicted on the enemy soldiers.
    An enemy supply convoy was attacked in Totom Dara at the mouth of Ghorband Valley. Fourteen tanks and trucks were set on fire. The column of smoke rising from the burning vehicles could be seen from miles away.
    The enemy- position in Qala-i-
 Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley
 and Bagram Air Base were attacked
 with heavy weapons. One jet plane was
 hit on the ground in Bagram and the
 enemy suffered heaw casualties in Qala-i-Surkh.
    The Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces in Do Saraka Bagram, inflicting heavy losses on them.
    The Mujahideen also attacked the enemy garrison in Deh-Sabs, killing 17 soldiers and three officers and wounding nine soldiers. Two armored cars were also destroyed.
    The enemy retaliated by aerial bombardment bf the liberated areas which caused casualties among people but no detail was immediately available. Several harvests were set on fire.
    A a result of the operation, the Salang highway was closed for at least two days. Fighting was still continuing while this story was filed.
     People coming from Kabul have reported that the enemy has fired heavy rockets into the villages in Panjshir valley. No information is available about the casualties.
     Herat Province
     A Mujahideen commander who had joined the Kabul regime some time ago re-joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on June 26 with 40 of its men, Jami'at Afzali Front reported.
     He brought with him the following weapons:
     •Two tanks
     •Four armored cars
     •Three trucks
     •One 76mm howitzer
     •One ZPU machine-gun (14-6mm)
     •Seven mortars
     •Seven P-K machine-gun
     •100 light weapons.
     A source from the Afzali Front to which the group has joined said Commander Ahmad Seddique had joined the regime with the Mujahideens' agreement
     The Mujahideen from the Afzali Front also killed Saifu, a militia commander of the regime in Enjeel District on May 25.
     Two militiamen were killed and two wounded in a clash with the Mujahideen in Sardustan village of Enjeel on June 7.
     Seven militiamen including a commander were killed in fighting with the Mujahideen in Sardustan village of Enjeel on June 20.
     One militia leader and eight soldiers were killed on June 25 when the truck carrying them hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen in Guzara District.
     Kabul Province
     Commander Mullah Ezat has summed up the casualties of both sides in Paghman fighting from the begin-
 ning of tiie current year as follows:
     -More than 1,000 regime soldiers and militiamen have been killed and more than 2,000 have been wounded.
     -Thirty tanks and trucks of the regime have been destroyed.
     -The regime has lost six jets.
     - Ninety Mujahideen were killed and 220 injured.
     The Mujahideen from different parties have participated in the operations against the regime. In the last one and half months the level of fighting in Paghman has been very high.
     In addition to regime regular forces, militiamen belonging to Rashid Dostom, Gelam Jam and Sayed Kay an have been involved.
     The Kabul regime has intensified its campaign against the Mujahideen in Paghman, 20 kilometers west of Kabul, to drive them out of the valley.
     Although the enemy has captured part of the area it has failed to drive the Mujahideen out.
     The Mujahideen from Paghman launch attacks against the regime's installations in Kabul.
     Paktia Province
     The Mujahideen shot down a transport plane of the communist regime in Khost on June 26, a Mujahideen source reported.
     Khost garrison town besieged by the Mujahideen for more than one year is supplied by air.
                                        Commander killed in Pewshwar
   Mualim Din Mohammad, the Ittihad-i-Islami deputy commander in Kunduz Province, was killed by unknown gunmen in Jalozai refugee camp near Peshawar on June 27, MEDIA reported.
   Din Mohammad, 35, started Jehad against the communist regime before the Soviet invasion. -He had come to Peshawar recently to visit his family who live as refugees in Pakistan.
   Recently, some other important personalities 6f Jehad have been killed by unknown people. They include Commander Payenda Mohammad from Ittihad-i-Islami (Prof. Sayyafs party). Commander Shariatyar from Hezb Islami Hikmayar and Zahir Khatibi from Jamiat Islami. No arrests have been made in connection to above cases.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page @

fWisdom of i
                                   t/te sages
                          Who is fortunate in life ?
   Riches are for the comfort of life, and not life for the accumulation of riches. I asked a holy wise man, who is fortunate, and who is unfortunate? He replied, he was fortunate who ate and sowed; and he was unfortunate, who died without having enjoyed. Pray not over that worthless wretch who performed no act of piety: who spent his whole life in amassing money, without making any use of it.
                        Science must serve religion
   Science is to be used for the preservation of religion, and not for the acquisition of wealth. Whosoever prostituted his abstinence, reputation, and learning for gain, gathered a harvest and set it on fire.
                           Wisdom saves kingdom
   A kingdom gains credit from wise men and religion and obtains perfection from the virtuous. Kings stand more in need of wise men, than wise men do of appointments at court. Listen O king, to my advice; for you have not a more valuable maxim, in all your archives, than this, " Entrust not your affairs to any but wise men; although public business is not the occupation of the wise."
                        Be moderate to friends, foes
   Reveal not to a friend every secret that you possess, for how can you tell but what he may sometime or other become your enemy. Likewise inflict not on an enemy every injury in your power, for he may afterwards become your friend. The matter which you wish to preserve as a secret impart it not to any one, although he may be worthy of confidence, for no one will be so true to your secret as yourself.
   It is safer to be silent, than to reveal one's secret to any one, and telling him not to mention it. O good man! stop the water at the spring head, for when it is in full stream, you cannot arrest it. You should never speak a word in secret which may not be related in every company.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS


 What is a trumpeters job? To blow.
 Meaning: An adviser, teacher or preacher can only instruct, it is up to the hearer to act.
  u-juuJo
& b
Unless God does it, what can a doctor do?
Meaning: If God does not cure a person, a physician cannot; or, man may plant and water, but God must bring the increase.
Blood cannot be washed out with blood.
Meaning: Two wrongs do not make a right
            r'lLiJ
 <S>

Even the five fingers of the hand are not alike.
Meaning: All people differ; usually greatly.
There is blessing in action.
 Meaning: Nothing venture, nothing win.
 Help yourself, and heaven will help you.
Five Soviet planes
     hiiacked in two weeks
   In less than two weeks, five Soviet passenger planes have been hijacked by Soviet citizens to Finland and Sweden.
   In each incident, a single person managed to' hijack a plane and after landing surrendered himself to the authorities in the country where the plane landed.
                                           AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page 0

        P.O.Box 264y f*e$hawat> Pqklstaa Tel: (0521) 4138) ___________________________________________________
Editorial \ 
V           
                               Cosmetic changes do not make regime acceptable to Afghans
     The Kabul regime completed its promised reforms by changing the name of the ruling party from PDPA to the Homeland Party.
     This step was preceded by some changes in the regime's constitution and the lifting of the emergency imposed one year before.
     The Kabul regime expected that these changes would improve its image at home and abroad and isolate the Mujahideen who,oppose it.
     But Najibullah could not achieve what he wanted from his political moves. All Afghans outside the Kabul regime want to see the end of the communists' rule in Afghanistan. The position of the Mujahideen parties is known to be against the regime but even Afghans outside the Mujahideen ranks think that the Kabul regime's removal from power is a necessary condition for the return of peace to the country. These late moves have not changed these positions.
     Najibullah's reforms were arranged in a way to influence the superpowers talks on Afghanistan, but he got the clear message that he and his party were con-, sidered to be the main obstacle in the way of a political solution.
     There are many reasons for the failure of Najibullah's moves. The first troublesome point is’the history of the PDPA and Najibullah himself. The way that the People's Democratic party came to power, the role it played during the Soviet invasion and the personal role of Najib as the head of the regime's secret police, KHAD, has left no room for ordinary Afghans to believe in the sincerity of Najib's promises. Najib hats admitted to the crimes his party has committed against Afghans. How could changing the name make such a party and such leader acceptable to the people?
     If we forget about history for the sake of argument, one clearly sees that the changes introduced by the Kabul regime are cosmetic. In every arrangement Najib wants to be the leader and to control the army, WAD, the police , and the militia forces. He might be ready to give some Ministries of minor importance to others to show that the present is different frtim the past, but he is not ready to give up control of the armed forces.
   . A close look at the composition of Khaliqyar’s cabinet shows that Najib is not even ready to give the important Ministries to the people who support his policies. Other communist factions who are cooperating with Najib complain about the tight control of the regime over the whole government machinery.
     In Afghanistan’s situation, political moves will prove useful if they are backed with military achievements. At the moment the only positive point that Najib can count on is the "survival card". It is a psychological weapon to keep its supporters’ morale high and encourage outsiders to take him more seriously.
     But the 'survival card' is not a permanent weapon. Najib's followers and the outside wjrld, especially the Soviet Union which finances the war, expect from Najib more than just survival. Once Najib can not show any major achievement ihe regime will find itself in a depressing situation.
     Problems among the Mujahideen help the Kabul regime to look good. As long as the Mujahideen do not forge unity in the fighting front and do not adopt a reasonable political strategy, Najib will benefit from the situation.
     No matter how clever Najib might be he does not have the right tools to win the war and bring peace to war-tom Afghanistan.
     Clever political games might prolong the life of the regime a little longer but Najib cannot deceive all the people all the time. Even if the outside world begins to take Najib seriously, the dedicated Mujahideen, those who started the war against the communist regime in the first place, will not let the Soviet agents rule Afghanistan under a different name and new slogans.
  Cmdr. Ahmadi
                                                        From page (6)
    He stayed in Peshawar, Pakistan, for four months during which he learned the tactics of urban warfare.
    Ahmadi joined Jami'at Islami when he was a student of Agriculture School in Baghlan. The students in the school were politically active. Most of students were members of the Islamic Movement Some of them later became Mujahideen commanders. Commander Najmuddin            and
Commander Wasiqi were Ahmadi's classmates. The Setam-i-Milli faction was the second largest group. It was a radical communist group with followers among non-Pushtun Afghans, mainly in the north. Discussions, debates and arguments between the supporters of the Islamic Movement and the communists drew a large audience from the students and gradually they affiliated with one side or the other.
    In addition to school subjects, Ahmadi had to study books about Islam so that he could defend his faith.
      After completing agricultural school, he got a job in the agriculture department of Keshm. He remained there for six months before joining the Faculty of Agriculture of the Kabul University.
    Ahmadi's childhood is described by himself as normal with no major event to mention. He was bom in Dara Kushk village of Keshm in 1957. His father, Haji Noor Ahmad, was a farmer, The family had enough agricultural land to support it He first went to a mosque school to leam the basics of Islam and later became a student of Keshm Secondary School. He was the leading student in his class. In Keshm school he was not involved in politics but saw some teachers propagating an Islamic revolution.         Ghulam
Mohammad Aryanpoor was one of them.
    Ahmadi has come to Peshawar to treat die injuries he received during Khwaja Ghar operation.
   Refugee drowned
    An Afghan refugee was drowned in Mardan river on Monday June 22, MIDI A reported.
    Mohammad Alem, 50, from Ningarhar Province wanted to cool himself by swimming in the river but was drowned. He lived with his family in Khishtu refugee camp near Peshawar. The body of Alem has not been recovered.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ©
  1,426
    in tunnel
   More than 1,400 Muslim pilgrims were killed and large number injured in a stampede in an overcrowded pedestrian tunnel near the holy city of Mecca on June 25.
   As throngs of the faithful crossed a pedestrian bridge in Mina, a railing gave way under the pressure. Seven worshipers plunged 8 meters, smashing into even greater waves of people at the mouth of a 550-meter-long tunnel dug through a mountain to ease the pilgrims journey. The rain of bodies brought foot traffic to a halt, but at the tunnel's opposite end other hajjis, unaware of the human blockade, continued to shove forward. Soon the passageway was jammed with some 50,000 people, many times more than its capacity. Next, according to survivors, for reasons still unexplained, the lights in the tunnel went out and the ventilation system failed, on a day when the temperature outside was a searing 44 centigrade.
   Then came mad panic. In the scramble to escape, hundreds were crushed under the feet of crowd; others collapsed in the airless heat.
    One day before the tunnel tragedy, 4,000 tents took fire in Mina. Since the pilgrims were not present at the
 time of the fire, nobody was killed.
      Four hundred and fifty tones of sacrificial meat were brought to the Afghan refugees in Pakistan from Saudi Arabia. This was the seventh times that meat was flown for Afghan refugees.
      The meat of animals sacrificed by pilgrims near Mecca are flown to different countries in Africa and Asia to feed the poor.
      The transportation expenditures of the meat are bom jointly by the Islamic Development Bank and the Saudi Government.
      About 2,000 Afghans could not perform Hajj due to visa problems or the unavailability of plane seats. Some of these men and women had come from Afghanistan and had walked for many days to reach Pakistan. The attempts by Mujahideen officials to get them visas and plane seats failed because the deadline to issue visas had expired. Many of these who could not go to the holy land returned to their places with a heavy heart. Last year the Saudi government arranged special flights to take the Afghan Hajjis who could not go by ordinary Hajj flights.
From internal Mujahideen press
                    Mosque built in Kunduz
    The foundation stone of a mosque was laid in Kunduz by the local Ulama on May 23, HINA reported.
    The mosque, constructed in Coba-i-Sufla village, in addition to the main praying hall will have rooms for a ma-drasa ( religious school and a Holy Quran memorization center.
    Initially, 25 students will be taught in the madrasa and 20 students will memorize the Holy Quran.
    The construction costs of the mosque will be paid by Arbab Ali Ahmad, the Mujahideen commander of the area, and Rahmatullah, a local notable.
    In a meeting held on the occasion several Ulama spoke about the importance of learning. The students of the local school sang revolutionary songs.
 Council trains paramedics
    A three-month training course for the Health Committee workers of the SC began on May 12, HINA reported.
    Students from Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Samangan and Balkh province are taught by the doctors from the Training Center of the Health Committee.
    The expenses of the training are bom by the Health Committee. In the previous three rounds of training a total of 17 students graduated. The Training Center was established in 1988.
                                       Football played in Taliqan
    Khanabad and Taliqan football teams faced each other in an exciting match on June 1.
    Bach team scored one goal ending the contest in a draw. The football match, played in Taliqan, was watched by thousands of Mujahideen, school children and local people.
     $bviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shayardnadzf used Afghanistaii as an example to justify his country's foreign policy in                P
     The army General, Albert Makashov had ctfrldzed die Soviet
       to be withdrawn!^ East|rn Surope without resistance.;. ■
                                                                                                             In reply, Shavardnadze wrote in that should remember
                 in the Afjglian capital
  bn;. Saturday^ when;;'.:'themercury touched 3? degrees centigrade <984 degrees Fahrenheit), a regime spokesman saidoqJune       '
     |he previot«; ■ highest;: temperature 10 |§^ ago was 36 degrees cen figr&de <98.8 Fahrenheit).'
  mm. during "the;J§k; of
  Fah§^eh|; officials said;.# ••
                                                                                                                             President
  donation of 5,000 dollars fcyt victims of ,'the devastating earthquake In neighboring Iran, the Regime radio
  awai
     NajibuflafE sent a message ; of condolence tq his Iranian counterpart and signed a condolence book at the franian %bSy here on June 24.
                 *«♦
     AH 1,525 Soviet Muslims per-fbmihg this; year,s^|i^Ji;;b&ca were guests of KingFahd
  Minister in charge of '^aire* said he; was ordered'by
                                                                                                                                of the
  RussianiSt|i from the moment of their arrival at the airport until their depattu^;#:;:f
  the> government ;■ .will pay for the guests' bills for accommod#^ find
  food, -jllllf-           ...
                 ♦*#
     The|j|ttsi ' CoordM|^gfor
  Humanitarian Assistance to
  Affchamsfcirt Jsifeddid
 the Kabul regime Najibuliah, Prime
 ; Minister Fari HaqKl^Sqyar, ■
 ^>
         .       _________________________ AFGHANews ypl 6, No 14, July 15,1990, page ®
      Who is who in the Mujahideen
      Commander B az Mohammad Ahmadi
      Baz Mohammad Ahmadi, a batta- from different provinces. The new The SC which faced tremendous prob-lion commander of the Supervisory force became known as the Central lems because of long and risky supply Council's( SC) army, is famous for his Units. Mujahideen who joined the force routes to Pakistan had decided to open achievements in the battlefield and were given political and military train- a shorter road by wiping out an enemy good manners.                          ing. They were supposed to become garrison in Kuran, Badakhshan.
      The two recent operations in officers of a regular army which was Ahmadi was part of a group who were which he participated were, the capture to be created later. Ahmadi started assigned to attack the garrison head-of Taliqan the provincial capital of work as the cultural head of One of the quarters. They captured their target in Takhar Province and fighting for the units but he was not happy dealing a daring action, control of KhwajaGhar District.        with cultural affairs, instead he wanted Before joining the SC, Ahmadi
      The city of Taliqan was liberated to concentrate on fighting.    worked as an organizer of Jami'at un-
 by local Mujahideen in the summer of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood derground cells in the city of. Kabul. 1988. Enemy troops took position in who took part in the training of the Ahmadi stayed in Dost Mohammad Baghi Zak'hira at the edge of the city. Central Units impressed Ahmadi. He Umarie’s base in Bagrami District, They had the support of an armed was convinced that he had come to the Kabul Province, for three years. He group belonging to SAZA, a commu- right place for Jehad and became opti- contacted the Mujahideen inside the nist faction locally known as Setam-i- mistic about the future.        city, gave them instructions and provid-
 Milli. The leader of SAZA, Kori Mali, The first military operation ed them with their needs. He also played a double game. He had contact- Ahmadi participated in after joining the fought alongside the local Mujahideen, ed the Mujahideen to negotiate terms SC was an attack on the regime posts in He was not satisfied with his work of surrender and at the same time he Shashan side-valley of Andarab District iu Kabul. The needs of urban cells were was in contact with the regime to pro- at the beginning of 1985 . The not provided easily and there was also tect himself from the Mujahideen Mujahideen suffered heavy losses at lack of a strategy in the urban warfare attack.                                the start Five Mujahideen were killed oi the Mujahideen. His work in the
      The SC, led by Ahmad Shah and several were wounded including city was affected by the annual migra-Masood, was aware of the design of the commander of the Mujahideen, tory habits of the Mujahideen around SAZA. Ahmadi was a member of ne- Heavy casualties caused the Kabul. Most of the Mujahideen used to gotiating team with SAZA. While vis- Mujahideen to panic.- Ahmadi took retreat to the mild Winter of Peshawar iting the SXZA base to negotiate he command and blew up a post After each year giving die enemy enough gathered information about the base five hours of fighting they won the time to consolidate its defense and even defense system. When the. talks broke battle.                          capture new areas before their return in
 SAZA was attacked and defeated by Some months after the Andarab the Spring.
 the Mujahideen. The information gath- victory, the Soviet troops attacked the Commander Ahmadi’s involve-
 ered by Ahmadi contributed to the vie- SC Khailab Base' using helibome ment in urban activities of Jami at goes
 tory. He also took part in the attack, troops. Since the attack was launched hack to the time when he was a student
 Some days later the regime garrison in during the Muslim festival of Eid, of the Faculty of Agriculture of the
 Taliqan also fell and the provincial most of the Mujahideen had gone to Kabul University.
 center of Takhar was totally liberated. visit their families. The limited number Being a member of Jami at he got
      At the end of 1989, the Kabul re- of Mujahideen fought well and involved in anti-regime and anti-Soviet
 gime recaptured Khwaja Ghar, a town Ahmadi was one of the commanders activities. The demonstration of the
 about 40 kilometers north of Taliqan. taking part in the fighting. The enemy Kabul University students against the
 It was the first step towards recaptur- retreated after loosing three helicopters Soviet occupation on 27 April 1980
 ine the provincial capital of Takhar. and tens of soldiers including a ranking led to Ahmadi’s arrest. The day coin-
 g The Mujahideen planned a            officer.                 cided with the anniversary of the corn-
 phased attack on Khaia Ghar. It was. in- When the SC decided to capture a munist coup of 1978. Several thousand
 tended to capture strategic security number of selected garrisons in the people joined the students and marched
 posts before capturing the. town, north, it counted on the Central Units, towards the city. When they had
 Ahmadi conducted the attack. He cap- Ahmadi, by then, had been promoted to reached close to the old city, the regime
 tured seven posts and was injured at the command of one of the units. The security forces attacked them. About
 the end of the operation.             first target was Farkhar garrison. 700 students were captured. After two
    Ahmadi joined the SC in 1984. Ahmadi’s group captured the posts as- weeks they were released except for 33
 Ghulam Mohammad Aryanpoor, the signed to it, but he was wounded in that people who were accused of organizing
 Mujahideen commander in Keshm operation.                              the demonstration. Ahmadi was one of
 Valley who personally knew Ahmadi Because of his injury he could not them. He was .released six months :
 persuaded him to return to his native take part in fighting for the capture of later.
 valley.                               Nahrin garrison at the end of the same The communist regime arrest
    After seven months staying with year.                              Ahmadi again after some months. This
 Aryanpoor in Keshm during which he The third garrison the Mujahideen time he remained in prison for three helped Aryanpoor, Ahmadi joined the captured in 1986 was Kalafgan . The months during which he was tortured Central Units of the $C.               Mujahideen won the war in a few with electric shocks and beating. When
    When Masood founded the iSC he hours. Ahmadi led his group in that op- released, he left the country, felt the need to form an elite force eration as a reserve force.
irom educated-Mujahideen coming A major victory was yet to come.                 Turn  to page ( 4 )
AFGHANews Vol6, No 14, July 15,1990, page 0
     Modem technology made it possible for me to watch Kabul Television in Peshawar. A satellite dish attached to an ordinary television set serves the purpose.
     Although I had spend eight years in Kabul, I had never watched a television program there. The first television station was built in Kabul by Prince Daud in 1977 and I had been exiled two years earlier.
     Daud gave a good propaganda tool to the communists before he was toppled by them in April 1978.
     I was thinking about a topic to write in the next issue of AFGHANews when a friend called and said he was in possession of a three hour video tape Tom a recent program from Kabul Television. Prof. Sayyafs party has had the means to monitor the Kabul regime television and the program was taped by that organization. I left aside every other work and started to watch the video tape. It was an interesting urogram of which I present a summery.
     Kabul Television telecasts only in the evenings. It started with the recitation of holy Quran followed by a children’s program. AH the children were in special uniforms. Every child read a patriotic poem or sang a revolutionary song in praise of their homeland and peace. A Russian cartoon film formed the most interesting part of the program.
     News and views were dominated by Najibullah's speeches, meetings of the PDPA , victories of the regime army, the return of the refugees and accusations against Pakistan and the US It was interesting to see the meeting of the Kabul branch of the party. No farmer and worker ware present in that meeting. All the members were wearing smart Western suits or military uniforms and from their faces one could guess safely that they were government officers working behind the desk. A few women were among the delegates.
      Military news forms the major part of Kabul Television's programs. A film about the Paghman operation was shown. The cameramen interviewed many officers in the front. They claimed the capturing of many weapons and much ammunition from the Mujahideen, but the camera failed to show these claims. The regime televi-
 sion showed the bodies of three martyred Mujahideen. Every soldier and officers interviewed talked about peace and the protection of the people but all the villages around them were destroyed and the warplanes still bombed and the tanks fired into the residential areas. No civilian population was shown on television. It seemed all the people had evacuated the area.
     I had the chance to watch an interview with Rashid Dostom, the head a of notorious militia group. He is a young and well-built man with long moustaches. From the way he spoke it seemed that he was not an educated person. The regime has rewarded him with the rank of General. His forces are engaged in the Paghman fighting. The militiamen belong to Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan were also taking part in the Paghman operation. Militia forces form the backbone of the defense of Kabul. These militiamen played a key role in the support of Najib during Tanai’scoup.
     The program showed the Sate Printing Press in Kabul. In Afghanistan the printing houses belong to the government. They Printing Press in Kabul print four dailies and more than ten magazines and weeklies. It also prints all the text books and propaganda literature of the regime.
     The entertainment program of the television included songs by male and female singers. Singers wore heavy makeup and were dressed in fancy western clothes.
     Looking from the television window, Kabul seemed a colourful and prosperous capital. Every body talked about peace even if they were busy killing people.
     The regime television also showed a documentary film about the lapis lazuli mine in Badakhshan. The documentary was about a small statue made of Afghan lapis in Egypt thousands years ago.
      Covering a journey from Pakistan to the lapis mine in Badakhshan it showed how the people dug the stone with, primitive tools and transported it to Pakistan on back or pack animals. The Kabul regime wanted to show that the Resistance was indulged in the "smuggling" of "National wealth". But the Resistance consider it a lawful trade supporting thousands of families in the liberated areas. •
 Herat people!
    need- food:#;
  - - -  " - V//////Z'
     Commander Ismail Khan has said shortages of food and poor economic conditions have made life for the Mujahideen and the people in liberated areas extremely difficult
     In a letter to his representative in Peshawar he has said the prices of essentials commodities have reach such a level that the people can not afford to buy them.
     One kilogram of candy is sold for 400 Afghani, one kilogram of tea 2,000 Afs., one pair of boots 40,000 Afs. and a pair of clothes 12,000 Afs., Ismail Khan wrote.
     He said he Was not able to give a pair of clothes to his Mujahideen each year.
     Ismail Khan said the Kabul regime exploiting the situation want to buy off people by offering them food and money.
     He has asked the International re lief organizations to help the people of Herat, Badghis and adjoining areas to alleviate their pains.
     Ismail Khan has drawn the attention of the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar to pay urgent attention to the serious situation in Afghanistan. "They should fulfil their responsibilities towards their people who have fought so bravely against the infidels", he said.
     Ismail Khan has expressed clearly the factthat acute economic problems can weaken the Mujahideen position in Herat unless something is doneurgent ly to correct the situation.
     An oidinary officer of the regime receives an average 4,000. Afghan per month.
    Kabul claims releasing Soviet prisoner of war
    A Soviet prisoner of war has been remanded to Soviet custody by the Kabul regime recently, regime radio reported.
    Muradov was captured in 1976 by the Mujahideen in Baghlan Province. The regime claimed that he was released by its security forces some time ago.
    A similar statement by the regime two months ago also proved to be incorrect The Kabul regime claimed that its soldiers rescued a Soviet soldier near the Salang highway. The soldier had beat handed over to the Soviet of ficials in Kabul.
                                        AFGHANews Vol 6, No 14, July 15, 1990, page ©
Commanders’ second meeting agrees to unify military efforts
     In their second meeting, he Mujahideen commanders have decided to coordinate military operations against the Kabul regime and to solve )rohlems between, different Vlujahideen fronts through negotiations.
     The meeting, in which about 300 commanders from different parts of Afghanistan participated, continued its deliberations from June 22 to 25 in a Mujahideen base in Khost District After thorough discussions the commanders decided to co-ordinate their military activities, solve problems between different Mujahideen fronts peacefully , improve the security situation in the liberated areas and along the transportation lines of the resistance and invite more commanders to participate in the coming meetings.
     In order to implement the decisions of the meeting a 60-member committee has been formed . The committee will form sub-committees to deal with specific issues.
     The organizers of the meeting say that they confine their work to military aspects of the Afghan issue. By not discussing the political issues, they want to give the impression that they are not in competition with the existing Mujahideen organizations- the political parties and die AIG.
     Some Mujahideen political leaders tave given conditional support to the commanders but others are still hesitant to back the commanders’ efforts.
     A spokesman of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar opposed the move saying it was leading to the formation of a new party.
     Jami'at's leader has said he supported the commanders meeting if they confined their efforts to military issues
 and refrain from indulging in politics.
     Masood and Ismail Khan, the two famous Jami'at field commanders have not sent their representatives to the meeting but the organizers of the meeting are hopeful that they will support the commanders' efforts to bring unity among the Mujahideen.
     The first meeting of commanders was held on May 7 to 9 in Paktia. Thirty-seven commanders participated in the first meeting.
     The commanders meeting might face problems when all the commanders have decided to participate in it. Now every large and small commander has one vote. This method might not be acceptable to the powerful commanders. A solution must be worked in advance to avoid future difficulties.
     The Kabul regime fired two SCUD missiles at the Mujahideen base where the commanders were meeting but they fell about 200 meters short of the base causing no casualties. When the first meeting of the commanders was convened, the Kabul regime welcoming the move said it was in line with its policy to bring peace to Afghanistan. But the commanders did not discuss making peace with the regime. On the contrary they discussed ways of coordinating the Mujahideen military action against the Najibullah regime.
     Convening the commanders meeting is thought to be the initiative of the Afghans themselves. The Mujahideen field commanders are not happy about the military and political situation in the country. Holding the meetings is an attempt to improve the situation.
Hospital electrified
    A small power plant has been built in Farkhar to provide electricity for the district hospital. The generator had been captured from die enemy in Taliqan. Engineers from the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council improvised a turbine to run the generator. Construction work took about two months and cost one million Afghani ( about $' 2,000 ) for construction work.
    This electricity will be used to illuminate the building and run the medical machines. It was a pilot project, a SC source said. The Mujahideen will build more power plants in the future.
sI6\V!> do'ivn gees' return
     UN officials in Kabul have said that even if the war ended now it would take several years before the refugees are re-settled, Reuter reported from Kabul. It also said the best way to resettle the refugees is a staged program.
     It is believed that as long as an acceptable government has not come to power in Afghanistan the large-scale repatriation of the refugees will no take place.
     Clearing mines and rebuilding the economy are other issues preventing the return of the refugees.
     The UN deputy coordinator of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan Zia Rizvi has asked for more funds for the UN demining program.
     He said only 17 million dollars has been given by the donor countries for this program which is not enough. He said the UN has trained 10,000 Afghans in demining.
     The UN demining program so far has had little success on the ground. Despite a lot of publicity the UN has defused very few mines in Afghanistan. Experts estimate the number of mines planted by the Soviets to be between 10 to 30 million.
     The repatriation of the Afghan refugees will start from October, the Chief Commissioner of Afghan refugees has told reporters.
     The UN High Commissioner for Refugees will soon start buying ration passes from the Afghan refugees who want to return home.
     Some Mujahideen parties have opposed the plan and think that the return of the refugees before the fall of the regime is a risky process.
                                                                              ICC teaches Afghans administrative skills
   A 10-day management and administration course was organized by the Islamic Coordination Council (ICC) for Afghans belonging to the Mujahideen parties and Arabs working in relief organizations in Peshawar.
   Fifty students attended the classes which continued from 16 to 26 June. ICC is an umbrella organization which coordinate the activities of the 17 Islamic relief organizations supporting Afghans.
                                      0-CeCp us puBCish
    JL TQ9&&&WS!
                                   TCeast send your donations to the fotkmnng account number:
         fEM&D Account Odp. 735-37 iHabiB BanlcLtd.
                                      ‘TtfxkaC 'Baba, Ptshaxoar ‘Pakistan