  Vol 6, No 17                                         September 1,1990
                                                Moscow's aid to Najibullah increased
    The Soviet Union has ageed to increase its food and fuel assistance to the Kabul regime, agencies reported. ' •
    The Soviet Union is giving 230,000 tons of grains and 110,000 tons of aviation fuel to Kabul regime during the current year. The Kabul re-. gime's request for an additional 100,000 tons of grains and 50,000 tons of aviation fuel is under study of theSoviet authorities.
    A Soviet official said his government has also agreed to give $300 million financial aid to the Kabul regime once the quantity of the Soviet debt on the regime is determined.
    The two sides have discussed the possibility of a resumption of the exportation of natural gas to the Soviet Union. Gas exports might be resumed at the beginning of 1991.
    The export of natural gas to the Soviet Union was cut when the Soviet Union withdrew
              Mujahideen score victories in Salang and Badghis
   The Mujahideen of Jami'at have scored three major victories in the past two weeks.
   •More than 2,000 armed militiamen joined the Mujahideen in Badghis. Commander Ismail Khan is in Badghis to organize an attack oh Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis.
   The defection of two tribal battalians has improved the Mujahideen position in that province and has increased the chances of their success.
   •More than 100 tanks and trucks were destroyed and large number of enemy troops were killed in a series of coordinated attacks launched on August 11. The Salang highway was blocked for at least nine days.
   •The Mujahideen from Jami'at drove out Sayyed Mansoor's militias from Aajar and Ashraf Valleys of Bamyan Province. Sayyed Mansoor is the head of the Ismailia community in Afghanistan. His men provide security along the Salang highway north of the Hindukush.
^                   Read the full story on page 2. ^
  RussianMPopposes
arms
its troops from Afghanistan in February 1988.
      The resumption the gas exports will bring the Kabul regime about $400 million each year.
      Natural gas is taken from wells in Jawzjan Province through a 110 kilometers long pipeline to Soviet Union. A Kabul regime minister said the pipeline is in good shape. He said the regime needed the assistance of Soviet advisors to resume export.
      It is believed that the Soviet Union paid much less for the Afghan gas than the world market price. The measuring equipment for the export of gas is located inside Soviet territory, beyond the reach of Afghans.
      The regime Minister said no agreement has been reached about the price and type of payment forthe gas exported.
      Gas exploration started in the North during the time of King Zahir Shah. The Soviet Union put pressure on the Afghan government to use
 and gas. The Soviets did not allow any othe^ for-
 ered it a threat totheir security. The Zahir Shah government also signed a deal with the Soviets to
      A five member Russian delegation called on Prof. Rabbani, leader of Jami'at Islami: Afghanistan at "JIA office in Peshawar on August 1. The delegation consisted of three mothers and one father of the Russian soldiers missing in Afghanistan. Aiona Andronov, a-journalist and member of the Russian Federation's Parliament was also included in the delegation.
      Emilia Zukova, the mother of one of the missing soldiers, asked Prof. Rabbani to provide information about the missing soldiers and arrange a meeting-with them.
      Andronov said he was sorry to ask for the Mujahideen's mercy while his government was still helping the Kabul regime to continue ihe war in Afghanistan. He noted that while the East Europeans had secured their rights for self-determination, die Afghans were still denied theirs. "We have committed many crimes. It is not easy to forget, " he said '
       Andronov claimed, to represent Boris Yeltsin, President of the Russian Federation. He said Yeltsin was in favor of ending the war in Afghanistan and wanted the supply of arms to the Kabul regime to be stopped.
       Prof. Rabbani sympathized with the families of the missing soldiers. He told the parents that he understood the feelings of die families. He noted however, that the issue oif POWs can only be solved as part of a comprehensive solution to die Afghanistan problem.
       He asked the families of the missing soldiers and the rest of the Russian people to exert pressure on the Soviet Government to stop interference in Afghanistan. Peace in Afghanistan will benefit both Afghans
 and Soviets.
     Andronov is a prominent Russian journalist who covered the Afghanistan war from die Russian side. Last March he was elected as a member of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Federation. He . gave an interview to Subhe Pairozi, a paper published by the AIG. Here are some of his views:
     Q. What is your view on the present reforms in the USSR?
     A. Great political changes have taken place in the USSR, but theSoviet Afghan policy has not changed. We still supply the Kabul regime with weapons which are used for killing and destruction, Yeltsin wants, to change'this. He wants to stop the supply of weapons to Kabul from the Russian Federation. If the Mujahideen cooperate with him and announce that they will release the Russian POWs in return for cutting the supply of weapons by Moscow to the Kabul regime, Yeltsin could bring more pressure on the Soviet Government to stop providing assistance to the Kabul regime. If they send a delegation to Moscow to speak on TV and ihe press and tell the Russians to stop sending military aid to the Kabul regime; whether Gorbachev likes it or not, whether he is sincere or not; he will be forced to stop sending military supplies to Kabul. Russians do not like war. The war must stop in Afghanistan. The continuation of killing innocent Afghans with Russian weapons is a crime. The Russian people are not evil people. So it is time to establish a new relationship.
     Q. Do the Russian maiss media reflect the crimes that die USSR have committed
                                                                                                                                  Turn to last page
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page @
                                                         Salang Valley
     The Mujahideen of the S.C. have destroyed more than . 100 tanks .and trucks of the Kabul regime and have blocked the Salang Highway for nine days, Hihdukush News Agency reported.
     The attack was launched in the South Salang, Jabulseraj and Charikar on the Salang Highway connecting Kabul to the Soviet border on August 11. The enemy lost one helicopter, four multiple rocket launchers and several artillery pieces. A large number of the enemy troop were either killed of wounded.
     Hundreds of Mujahideen from Salang, . Shotul, Gulbahar, Jabulseraj and Totomdara took part in the operation. The Mujahideen made use of ground-to-ground rockets and recoilless rifles in the attack against the enemy posts, bases and convoys. The enemy warplanes and its artillery heavily bombarded the suspected areas of die Mujahideen destroying many houses and killing and wounding some civilians.
     This is the first time in the history of Jehad that Salang Highway has been blocked for such a long time.
     Six Mujahideen were killed and 6. civilians were injured. Two Mujahideen DSchK machineguns were destroyed in the operation. Here are the day-to-day accounts of the operation:
     •The Mujahideen attacked with heavy weapons the headquarters .of the 2nd Division of the regime in Qala-i-Suikh on August 11; The Military installations were set on fire and burned for 4 hours. One helicopter was destroyed when it tried to evacuate wounded soldiers.
     •     The'Mujahideen destroyed 21 trucks, six oil tankers, four tanks and several security posts in Taghma village inside the Salang valley on August 12. They also destroyed 19 trucks and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy in Deh Naw area of Salang on the same day. Two tanks and two trucks were destroyed in Bagh-i:Maidan area.
     In Totomdara , at the mouth of the Ghorband Valley, the Mujahideen destroyed one KHAD jeep, nine trucks and one tank. The Kabul regime warplanes bombed the suspected position of the Mujahideen killing one civilian and 'wounding. several others. Several houses were also destroyed.                  v-
     •     The Mujahideen destroyed three BM-21s ( 40 barrel multiple rocket launchers) and one BM-13 in Olahg area of
 Salang on August 13. A building housing regime soldiers was also destroyed in the attack.
     •      The Mujahideen destroyed three tanks, four trucks, three D-30 guns and three BM-21 rocket launchers belonging to the regime in Olang on August 14.
     •      The Mujahideen destroyed four tanks, 15 trucks and one building inside the Salang Valley on August 15. Three
 .Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
     'The Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrisons in Tajikan, Jabulseraj and Salang on August 16. Ten trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. \
     •One tank, 10 trucks and a building of die regime were destroyed by the Mujahideen in Baba Mardan of Salang on August 17.
     •The . Mujahideen destroyed three tanks, 17 trucks and two buildings of the en-. emyin Salang on August 18.
     •     The Mujahideen destroyed one tank in Jabulseraj and seven .tanks, 10 trucks, one D-30 gun and a building in Salang on August 19.
   Kunduz Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at repulsed an attack launched by a regime militia unit in Bagh-i-Miii, close to the city of Kunduz on August 6. Five enemy soldiers were killed. The enemy artillery pounded the villages controlled by the Mujahideen killing one person and wounding three.
   ■ The Mujahideen killed one enemy soldier and wounded another in Kunduz in die Musa Zay area on August 8.
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at under die command of Abdul Qadir killed one enemy soldier and wounded another in Kid Taipa village of Qala-i-Zal district on August 9.
   Bamyan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at has liberated Hajar and Ashraf valleys in Bamyan from the control of the government militiamen under Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan, HINA reported; Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
    Sayyed Mansoor the leader of Isnudlia community is working with die Kabul regime. The mam base of Sayyed Mansoor is Kayan valley close to Pul-i-Khumri District
    Badghis Province
    More than 2,000 armed militiamen have joined die Mujahideen in Badghis Province,. Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    The 89th tribal battalion of the regime under the command of Ghulam Yahya and
 stationed at Pudak about 60 kilometers, west of Badghis came over to the Mujahideen on August 13.
     Ghulam Yahya was the deputy of Naik Mohammad, die provincial commanderof Jami'at in Badghis. After Naik Mohammad was martyred one year ago, he joined the regime because of some problems with other Mujahideen commanders.
     Commander Ismail Khan of Herat went to Badghis about one month ago to escalate the war against the regime. He convened a meeting of the commanders of the province to discuss the situation. The commanders from other parties also attended the meeting. They decided to intensify at tacks . ..against the regime forces in the Province.
     After die meeting they contacted different militia4 groups to persuade them to defect.
     Ghulam Yahya accepted the offer and joined the Mujahideen with 1,200 light weapons, two wireless sets, 60 heavy machineguns, one mortar, one armored car and 100,000 rounds of ammunition.
     Reports from Badghis add that about 1,500 Mujahideen under the command of Abdul Khaliq liberated several villages near Qala-i-Naw
     In this operation 400 light weapons, three ZPU (14.6 mm), two DSchK, and four trucks were seized from another militia group led by Abdul Aziz.
     The 82 tribal battalion under the command of Abdul Aziz joined the Mujahideen on August 23. He brought with him 615 light weapons, 26 PK machineguns, two ZPU machineguns, three mortars, 10 RPG-7 rocket launchers, three recoiUess rifles and seven trucks. Several villages close die Qala-i-Naw wereliberated;
     Abdul Aziz was n Mujahideen com mander who joined die regime forces about four years ago
    v About 4,000 Mujahideen from Badghis and some districts of Herat have massed near Qala-i-Naw. They want to attack the regime garrison there. The defection of the militia battalion will weaken die morale of the regime troops and will open die way for the liberation of Badghis Province. —
     Hie latest reports say the Mujahideen attacked Qala-i-Naw from four directions on August 25. Several outpost of the regime have been captured. The Kabul regime warplanes heavily bombed die Mujahideen positions
 Kandahar Province
     Commander Mullah Naqibullah launched a mopping up operation against bandits on the Kandahar-Ghazni road on August 16.
     Several groups of bandits laid down arms and 18 bandit were killed. Four bandits were tried and sentenced to death by a court; 4
     Bandits were looting the property of travellers and committed other crimes against innocent people.
     Mullah Naqibullah has gone to Uruzgan on a pbace mission. He wanted to to bring understanding between the Pushtun and Hazara communities in that, province. Relations between the two communities are tense and has even led to armed conflict Disputes over land and pasture are the source of the tension between the two communities.
     Two commanders from Mahaz mini (Pit Ghailani). and one commander from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) in Helmand have joined Mullah Naqibullah.
     Twenty one armed soldiers of toe Kabul regime stationed in Mahbas post defected to the Mujahideen of Mullah
                                                                             Turn to page (7)
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
Wisdom of ^
xz
A Tyrant cannot escape
   It is said that a tyrant used to force the poor to sell firewood at much less than its market price and then would gi ve it to his rich friends. A charismatic holy man passing by exclaimed: " You are a snake poisoning everything you see; you are a screech owl - wherever you perch is cursed! Though you can get away with this tyranny with us, God the Knower of Secrets see's all you do. Do not oppress the people of this land or else their prayers will reach the highest heaven."
   The tyrant was none too pleased at these words; he glared and turned away pretending not to notice the holy man.
   One night the kitchen fire spread to his store of firewood and then to the whole house. Everything burned, and the tyrant was thrown from his bed of soft down on to a bed of burning ashes. As he was saying to his friends: " I can't think where this fire came from! " the holy man happened to pass by : " The heartburning sighs of the poor whom you oppressed, that's where the fire came from!" he said.
  Desperate cat fights leopard
   When Hormuz was crowned king, he imprisoned his father's ministers. He was asked:" What crime did they commit deserving such punishment?" "None," he answered. " But I saw that they were excessively afraid of me and did not fully trust my word. I was afraid that to save their skin they would have me assassinated. So I followed the advice of the sages who said: " Fear him who fears you, though he be a hundred times weaker. Look how the cat in desperation claws out the leopard’s eyes. The snake bites the peasant's heel for fear that the heel will bruise his head."”
Zahir Shah opens office in Rome
     A close associate of Zahir Shah has said that the former king is going to open an office in Rome to promote political work he announced some weeks ago.
     Afghan Networker, a paper published by some Afghans in the U.S.A, has reported that the US will provide $15 million to the former king to intensify his political activities. The paper says it has got the information from a source close to the Congress.
     The US Government sent its envoy to the Afgfcui Resistance,- Peter Tomsed, to Rome some weeks ago to. meet the former king. The US Government considers the former king part of the Afghan Resistance.
     Zahir Shah has been living in exile since 1973 when he was deposed by his cousin and brother-in-law. Prince Daud, in a bloodless coup.
     Zahir who remained silent during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, has intensified his political activities to return to power as a neutral figure. The Soviets, as well as Americans, have been in contact with him and he is be-
ing encouraged to take a more active role.
    Some weeks ago he announced initiating a program to unite all the segments of Afghan society. The former king has refused to support the Mujahideen efforts for the creation of a broad-based government
                     AFGHAN PROVERBS
                                                                                                                                                                                        dl j jl Juki
JuJj fjjL
I've never; seen anyone go astray who followed along the right way.
Meaning: You'll never go wrong by doing right.
                   4&L
A liar is forgetful.
Meaning: A dishonest person can't remember to be consistent
                    4J       *1 Jo 4j»
Who calls himself a Khan is not a Khan.
Meaning: Self-praise is no praise.
He who praises himself befouls       -
himself.
                 Italian proverb

What you see in your self is what you see in the world.
Meaning: The soul is the mirror of the world.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page Q
Editorial
                              Mujahdideeh need to adjust plans for new situation
    The Mujahideen may differ among themselves on many issues but the only question that they all agree on is the removal of the communist regime in Kabul and its replacement with a representative government The Soviet Union's and the Kabul Regime's manoeuvers halve failed to change this united position of the resistance.
    The survival of the regime for more than one and a half years has made it more confident in its ability to survive and the enormous Soviet economic and military assistance has made it hopeful about its future. The Kabul regime has become less compromising and despite rhetoric about "peace" and "national reconciliation" it wants to play a key role in the future political life of Afghanistan.
    Such an attitude of the regime leaves no other option for the Mujahideen than to continue fighting. The Mujahideen military performance after the Soviet troops' withdrawal has not been encouraging. The resistance's military efforts faced many problems including lack of supplies, poor organization, lack of coordination and international political pressure to solve the issue through peaceful means.
    Although these difficulties still exist arid will prevent the Mujahideen's quick victory over the Kabul regime, the Resistance has the potential to change the situation to its benefit.
    The successful operations in the past two weeks in Badghis and the Salang and the commanders efforts to unite their activities are encouraging developments.
    Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and threat of war in the Gulf has posed a new problems for the Mujahideen. Those countries which provided material assistance to the refugees and the Mujahideen are caught in a crises themselves. The longer their involvement the less they can pay attenion to the Afghan problem.
    The Mujahideen need to adjust their war efforts to this new situation and plan their future course of action accordingly. The situation calls for austerity measures and self-reliance schemes to be able to resist the enemy without substantial outside support
    The Kabul regime has tried to increase its source of income by planning to restart the export of natural gas and getting more aid from UN.
    Because the Soviet Union is facing financial problems, it will find it difficult to finance a never ending war in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union can give more guns and bombs to the Kabul regime but feeding millions of mouths and the provision of fuel for the war machine of the regime will hurt the ailing Soviet economy. The Mujahideen should not allow the Kabul regime to diversify its source of income. They have to expose one-sided assistance of the UN to the Kabul regime and prevent the export of natural gas to the Soviet Union at all costs.
    The Mujahideen should make the Soviet proxy war in Afghanistan as expensive as possible to force that country to pay a dear price for its aggressive Afghan policy.
    The Mujahideen can achieve this aim through the intensification of the war; coordination of military and political activities and the adoption of a reasonable war strategy.
    Once the Soviets have abandoned their policy of imposing the Kabul regime, the door for the settlement of the Afghan issue through peaceful means will be opened and the Mujahideen should be ready to respond properly to a political initiative when that time comes.
    No deal with the Kabul regime' is the united call of all the Mujahideen but, getting rid of it needs a united strategy and concerted efforts by All Afghans.
     The fifth exhibition of Behzad Miniature Art Cotter was opened by Nancy Dupree, widow of the late Louis Dupree, in Peshawar on August 26.      .
     Talking on the occasion, Ahmad Ali Shadad, the teacher and founder of the Behzad Miniature Center, hoped to keep alive the miniature art which originated and flourished in Herat
     The Behzad Miniature Center was established with the help of the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan in Islamabad in June 1989.
     The Center follows the historical methods of Herat This method was founded there about 1,000 years ago.
     The famous painters " include Kamaludin Behzad and Meerak whose valuable paintings are found in great museums of the world;
     After long years this art was animated by the great artists such Ustad Mashal and Humayoon Etemadi at the present century v
     During the Holy war (Jehad), the young Afghan miniaturist Shadad with the financial support of the Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan established this course and, after a long time this ancient art has been revived.
     Now the Center has 30 students who are being taught by Shadad, Mohammad Naeem Hanifi and Ahmad Feraydoon.
     The main goal of the establishment of this course is the reconstruction of the ancient culture of Afghanistan which has been destroyed during the protracted Russian: imposed war.
     Shahdad the teacher from the Fine Arts Faculty of Kabul University was bom in Bek Toot village of Paghman District of Kabul in 1959.
     After completing primary school he attended the Industry High School of Kabul and graduated from the Art Department of the school.
     He studied at the Fine Arts Faculty of Kabul University and after completion of his studies, he was employed as a teacher of miniature by the Faculty and worked there for two years.
     He had obtained 15 cultural awards during his study and work time. He also participated in die Calligraphic and Islamic Miniature Festival held in Baghdad and succeeded in earning a certificate from the Ministry of Information of Iraq.
     The previous exhibitions held by the Center are:
     1-      September 1989 during the Third International Hearing on Afghanistan held in Oslo.
     2- In several cities of Norway.
     3-      The American Club, Peshawar May 11,1990.
     4-      The Canadian High Commission, Islamabad May 25,1990.
     The art exhibition will be open to visitors until September 5 at the following address:
     43/D1 Old Jamrud Road
     University Town, Peshawar.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen -
Cmdr. Abdul Karim Arshad
    Abdul Karim Arshad, Jami’at commander in Gurziwan District, Faryab Province;, leads about 500 armed Mujahideen and control part of the district.
    He is famous for his piety, good manners and following of Islamic teachings in conducting Jehad and dealing with the people.
    Arshad has taken part in many operations in different parts of Faryab Province. In the first years of Jehad his Mujahideen liberated Gurziwan district and freed a large number of Mujahideen prisoners.
    He pays attention to education of the his Mujahideen. A visitor reported that every night he gathered his Mujahideen and talked to them about the purpose of Jehad and advised them to behave like good Muslims in dealing with the people. He shows great inters! in the education of children. He has opened 12 schools and 10 madrasas in Gurziwan the expenses of which are provided by the Mujahideen and the local people.
     Arshad treats the people nicely. He listen to their complaints and tries his best to provide them with justice.
     When he was a student before the Communist coup of 1978 he Joined the Islamic Movement. He left his studies in the faculty of the Islamic Law of Kabul University unfinished, to wage a war against the Soviet invaders. He was in the third year of his studies in the University. Arshad completed the primary school in Dara Mazang of Gurziwan and secondary education in the Madrasa (religious school) of Abu Muslim in Maimana. Arshad came to Peshawar, Pakistan, in 1981 and has stayed inside since then.
     Commander Arshad was more powerful in the past. Some of his commanders left him sometime back because he could not provide them with their needs of arms and ammunistion.
     Arshad was bom in 1954 in Dara Zang. His father, Haji Bymurad, was a tajik landowner and the leader of his village. He is married and has three children.
Cmdr. Mohammad Saadat
    Dr. Mohammad Saadat, Jami’at commander in Lawlash District, Faryab Province, leads about 500 armed Mujahideen in the war against the communists.
    His Mujahideen have taken part in the liberation of Lawlash and in fighting in Maimana, the provincial capital, and some other districts.
    Lawlash was liberated at the beginning of Jehad and has remained under the Mujahideen's control since then.
    Commander Saadat is a graduate of the Health Faculty of Kabul University and this is the reason for the people calling him Doctor Saadat. Beside his other engagements, he treats the Mujahideen and the local people. He finished primary school in Lawlash and completed Abu Ubaid High School in Maimana.
  Kabulis suffer from price hikes
    A German journalist has reported that although essential commodities are available in Kabul, the prices are so high that ordinary Afghans and low ranking regime officers cannot buy them.
    He says one kilogram of tomatoes costs 210 Afghanis and one kilogram of soybeans 250 Afghanis, while the monthly salary of a nurse is 4,000 Afghanis,
    The reporter said the value of the Afghani (Afghan currency) is falling each day. In 1988 each US dollar was exchanged with 210 Afghani. This year 580 Afghani makes one dollar.
    The regime army officers and volunteer soldiers receive the highest salaries in Afghanistan. Each volunteer soldier receives a monthly galaxy of 40,000 Afghanis.
     His critics say that Dr. Saadat have failed to use his abilities to organize his Mujahideen better and expand his influence in the rest of the province. The reason is that he has been satisfied with the liberation of his area and has not tried to engage .the enemy outside his district regularly.
     He came to Peshawar in 1980 to get support from Jami’at and after a short while returned to his area.
     He was bom in 1953 in a Tajik family. His father, Mohamad Naeem, was an influential person in Lawlash. The economic condition of the family was relatively good. Dr. Saadat has benefited from the reputation of his father to rally the local people against the communists under his leadership. He is married and has five children.
    Five Iranians were killed by Soviet border guards on August 7 when they were returning from a visit to the Soviet Union to meet their rela-tives, Kayhan Hawaii reported.
immmm
   | A ||sti||pi|||i^ sta-$00 in Kbte-LSangi:^|^||pf Kabul On ^August Wm r^lri^d. Four people were killed and ||. injured in j^elexplosion w^kib-’feill^re tharf iSpD .bouses. and shops. wl||o|t;;pow||^ ®(Kabul. • regime' . hai||it§pd the Mujahideen for the explbffl^|-:.:
     "A movte wilf jfe «|§|s tn(j|& Soviet Union about that gagemem In Afghanis^; actor will play die leading sole and the     air force amd artillery uiiits
  will take $»i£in ^fiIm.;The; movie whlch witl cost one million lars win be shot in the southern part
  ^ils^inthe]Fa|i|.
  Jawan, a senior militia commander, who was killed by the Mujahideen in Herat: on AugtKH|| Kabul Badib ;reported. The deputy Ministers of XJffehse and part in his burial ceremony.
       ||!        ii
     Eighty people were killed; when a regime transport plane flying from Shindan, in the West of Afghanistan,
  Kabul regime sources has indicated that technical problems were the cause of the crash, but a Mujahideen attack cannot be ruled out. Regime officers form the bulk of passengers

      The            interim | Gpyehnew
  will send 2,000 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia for the defense of the holy cities of Mecca and Madina, MIDIA re| ; pofiot; The Afgj|Ei[n:: Mujahideen hayb condemned invasion of

      Foreign diplomats in Kabul are
  rationing, a German paper writes, fWhite hundreds of ordinary Afghans wait in line to fill then backets of water. the foreign diplomat? art attoufl! tofih tlteirswimmijng pools. - §§f
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
From the dairy of Jehad
Supervisory Council offers model
  Mohmmad Haider Reza £» My trip to the North started from the border village-of Shah Salim, Chitral, on July 12. The purpose of the trip was to see the health situation in the North.
     The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan has been supporting some hospitals and climes in the area and as the Head of the Health Department of the Committee I wanted to get first , hand information about their performance. I had made three trips to the area in the past. It was a good opportunity to see the changes which had taken place after the Soviet troops withdrawal.
     The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council (SC) have built a road usable by four-wheel drive pick-up cars to the top of the famous Dora Pass. On the border the Mujahideen guards enquired about my travel permit which I had to.take from the Mujahideen office in Peshawar.
     Descending the pass I reached a beautiful natural lake. Close to the lake was a tea house which offered venison and trout to its costumers. AtToop Khana, an abandoned Soviet garrison, a contingent of the Mujahideen of Commander Sayyed Najmuddin were stationed to provide security for travellers.
     The trip which took place on horseback was relatively easy. It took five days to reach Worsaj, Takhar. I rented a horse for 40,000 Afghani ($71).
     After two days of travelling I reached , Kuran-Monjan. The Kabul regime had established a garrison in this area but in 1987 the Mujahideen captured it Due to the good climate, fruit could be found in abundance. The area is a busy place; Lapis lazu-lite traders were occupied buying and selling the semi-precious stones extracted about 20 miles away inside the Yamgan Valley, Chi the way in there were not enough traffic because the Mujahideen had no military supplies to take in. After a day's walk from Kuran I readied Wishti, Anjuman where I spent an uncomfortable night due to bed bugs and flees.     .
     . On the forth day I reached Piew, the upper part of Worsaj Valley. Piew is inhabited by Ismailias who are loyal to the Mujahideen. The toad built by die Mujahideen from die center of Warsaj reaches Piew. The Mujahideen have built several, wooden bridges useable by trucks on the Piew Riveri Piew is an extremely beautiful area.
     Someone told me that Masood's family was living in a village close to Piew. I went to the village to see his one year Old ton, Ahmad. I was surprised by the simple way that Masood family lived. Ahmad was suffering for acute diarrhea. I appre-dated Masood's sense of dutyto leave his son in such a state and go to work. I was also struck with die relaxed atmosphere in die village with no anned guards in sight for die protection of the family.
     After a cup of tea and giving some medical advise I continued iny downward journey. The lower you go the more beautiful the valley becomes. My horseman.
Abdul Wodood, was from a Qawanduz village of Worsaj. He asked me to visit his village and serve tea in his house. He was an
was offered cherries, the best ever I had eaten in my life. I wondered why I was torturing my family in die heat of Peshawar and was riot making one of these villages my home? The fresh air, the sweet cherries, the song of the birds and the kindness of the people all' were suggesting to me that I should return to Afghanistan. I wanted to be one of the villagers to enjoy my life close to nature.
     1 spent the night in Khanaqa, the center of Worsaj. The Mujahideen have a health clinic there . The clinic has three paramedics who know how to deal with common health problems. It was well organized with a fair amount of medical supplies. The clinic had no ambulance for transporting serious patients to Farkhar and Taliqan hospitals.
     The next day I took a jeep to Farkhar. The road condition had improved considerably. There were many trucks and jeeps laden with goods and people coming from or going to Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. Along the road I saw people living a normal peaceful fife. They were busy working on their fields.
     Close to Farkhar I met Dr. Sahar, the Head of the Health Committee of the S.C. We went to the Mujahideen training center to meet Commander Masood. He was busy meeting with different Mujahideen groups who had come from different places. A meeting of commanders was called by Masood to discuss the situation. Since the training camp is located away from the villages the normal life of the local people is not disturbed. Some local people also benefit from selling goods to the Mujahideen in toe center.
      I greeted Masood who was as usual very warm and friendly. He asked many questions about Peshawar. It seemed to me that he was fully aware of what was happening in Peshawar. He postponed discussion about medical problems until after my visit to the Farkhar and Taliqan hospitals.
     The SC has built a new hospital in Farkhar. I was told that the land of the hospital was bought by the government of President Daud but due to the communist coup the landlord never received the money. When die Mujahideen wanted to build hospital on the land, he demanded the price of his land. Enquiries showed that the man was right and the SC paid the price of the land. The hospital is run by Mir Ahmad, a local medical doctor and a graduate of the Kabul University and three paramedics. -
     The hospital is electrified by a small turbine installed some mondis ago. Besides growing many types of flowers, the hospital authorities had grown different types of vegetables used to feed the patients. I found tiie hospital well-organized. Patients from all over Farkhar benefit from it The hospital had a jeep which ^ was used as an ambulance. \
     Before reaching Taliqan, I was shown the: place where Jami'at commanders were killed by Sayyed Jamal last year.
     Taliqan, the provincial, capital of Takhar was impressive. The paved road, the clean shops and uniformed traffic policemen gave me the impression I was visiting Kabul.
      The license plates of the vehicles were
 issued by the. Mujahideen. The licence plates were green with the word Takhar' and a specific number for the vehicle. Trucks and jeeps were taking people and goods to Kunduz, Badakhshan and Nahrin (Baghlan).
     One of the shortcomings of Taliqan-is tiie lack of electricity. The city was electrified in the past but due to the war the power generators were destroyed. The machines, made by Semens Company, are still there but^ need some spare parts to become operational.
     Taliqan is an active city. Restaurants, fruit shops and ice cream parlors wore open. I went to the grain market of Taliqan, It was evening and the shops were closed, but there were piles of wheat and other grain in the open ground unattended. It showed the level of security in the largest town in Afghanistan controlled by the Mujahideen.
     The evening call for prayer was preceded with a recitation of tiie Holy Quran through a loud speaker fixed in the colter of the city.
     The building of the Taliqan hospital was in good condition. It was built by the former regime.
     The personnel of the hospital are those who worked there before the liberation of Taliqan. An old clerk working in the hospital wore western dress, a sign of the toler-ance of the Mujahideen. It indicated the Mujahideen made use of available manpower without imposing a new code of dress on them. A classmate of mine worked as the X-ray technician. I saw him after about 20 years.
     The hospital has a women section. This section is rim by women doctors and nurses working there before the liberation of Taliqan. A lady doctor, graduated from the Medical Faculty of the Kabul University was employed one week before I arrived. The working and visiting women observe Islamic Hejab.
     The registration book of tiie hospital showed that an average of 300 patience, male aid female, visited the hospital each day. The hospital has 30 bed which were occupied by wounded patients from tiie different provinces.
     Dr. Nesari is the head of Taliqan hospital. After graduating from Kabul University he joined the Mujahideen and started to work in Panjshir. He was later transferred to Taliqan.
     The hospital had a fair amount of medical supplies. The patients do not pay any fee for the treatment and medicine. If the needed medicine is not available in the hospital, toe patient can buy ft from tite pharmacies in the city. The hospital has one ambulance.
     I was interested to know what was toe difference between toe hospital of today and when it. was run by toe communists and toe Daud regime. I was told the hospital is now in a better condition.
      Programs to prevent malaria, T.B and other diseases have not expanded properly in the North because of lack of facilities and personnel. Mobile vaccine teams go from village to village to immunize children against measles, whooping cough etc., but there is a need for a comprehensive pro gram to control them. The health committee of toe S.C. had a plan to implement such a program but it needs support to do it.
      After visiting Taliqan hospital I realized that toe medical help given to toe S.C.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 17, September 1,1990, page 9
  not enough. Talking to Masood I suggested putting a nominal price on the medicine distributed. Masood did not agree but said every effort should be made to distinguish between those who are really sick and those who are not. The Health Committee was eager to start a mother and child care program.
     In Taliqan the life was normal. Children went to school and business was flourishing . The city is run jointly by , Jami'at Island,           Harakat-e-Inqlab
 (Mohammadi) and Hezb Island (Khalis). Talking to the Harakat leader , Eng. Umar,
 I learned that there was mutual respect between the three groups. He admired Masood for his good work.
     I talked to the ordinary people in Taliqan and asked their opinion about the situation. They were pleased and admired the security measures taken by the Mujahideen of the S.C. to protect die life and property of the people.
     Masood-wanted the medicine donated by the relief agencies to the areas controlled by S.C. to be given through the Health Committee rather than to die individual commander or doctors. This will make it easy to control the supplies and make individual doctors answerable to an organization inside the country. I heard that the S.C. has opened a girls' school in Takhar province. I heard of no friction between local religious scholars (Ulamas) and the S.C. because of the girls' school and womens' hospital facilities.
     While I was in Takhar there was no evidence of any sort 6f problem between the Mujahideen parties.
     I took a truck to Nahrin to visit the hospital there. The journey took about six hours. The Nahrin hospital was in good shape and new rooms were under construction to expand the hospital. Eh. Feroz is the head of Nahrin hospital.. I met with Abdul. Hay Haqjoo, the commander of Nahrin for a- few minutes. He was very busy.              1
     It took me one day by .donkey to reach Khost from Nahrin. Khost was a fertile valley. There is no proper road. The Mujahideen have repaired a narrow road connecting Eshkamish, Takhar, to Khost but it is useable only by. jeeps. The only jeep T saw belonged to Sayyed Yahya the commander of Khost Goods are brought on horses and donkeys from Eshkamish and Nahrin. On Fridays a bazaar is held in Do-Abi, the center of Khost where people come from different side valleys to buy their needs and sell their products. I visited the hospital in Khost. I also wanted to meet with Aziz Rahman, a doctor belonging to Hikmatyar's party. He was receiving medicine from the Swedish Committee for his clinic in Charkh-i-Falak side valley. I visited Hezb commander, Mawlawi Joya, in Do-Abi and enquired about the work of Azjz. I was happy that despite difficulties in some other places, a group of Hezb lived with Jami'at in peace.
       From Khost I entered Panjshir dirough Khawak pass. I started to visit the health clinics from the lower part of die valley.
       I went to Gulbahar at the mouth of the valley. It was a busy trading center with many shops and restaurants. I visited the mosque to offer noon prayers and saw a recitation of Holy Quran class run by the S.C.
       Anaba Clinic, at die lower part of Panjshir Valley, has a proper building. Dr. Ahmad Shah treats the male patients and his wife who is also a nurse treats women.
       In Rukha workers were busy repairing the central mosque which was partially damaged during die occupation of the valley by the Soviets. The 30 bed Rukha hospital has a proper building. There were many patience who had been wounded in the recent fighting in the Salang. Dr. Abdul Wasai Rabhbar is the head of Rukha hospi-
 tal. Arab brothers have opened a clinic in Bazarak.
     In Bazarak I met with Mahmood Khan die Chief Administrator (Emir) of Panjshir.
 I found him a kind and humble person. He told me about his recent visit to Paryan where he talked to the people about die extension of the newly-built road to Andarab and upper parts of Paryan. The plan is to connect Andarab in Baghlan to Panjshir by a road through the Khawak Pass. On my way back, I saw people working on the road.
     Panjshir is the most devastated district controlled by Shoora but it is in better shape than it was four years ago.
     In Khench, a town in upper part of the valley, I saw a prosperous bazaar with shops full of goods. I saw many trucks and jeeps in Panjshir. Many people were busy rebuilding their houses. The land was culti vated and even new trees were planted. Road conditions had improved.
      Where I went there was plenty of food but at high prices. The price of wheat was dropping in the North. I was told that the current year's harvest was better than last year.                          ,
     The Shoora has laid the foundation of good work in the fields of health, education, agriculture and reconstruction. It is capable of absorbing large scale support in these fields.
     Before going to the North I visited Logar, Wardak and Paktia provinces to visit the health clinics. In these areas the people lived a normal life as in the North but I was worried about peace in the south because I could not see organized efforts to stregthen the position of the Mujahideen. In the North, die Shoora has comprehensive political and military programs.
      After five days of walking I reached the Pakistan border on August 9. The trip made me optimistic about the future of Afghanistan and hopeful for the freedom of my beloved country.
      Mohammad Haider Reza, 40; is the head of the Health Department of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan. After graduating from the Medical Faculty of the Kabul University in 1983 he migrated to Pakistan. After working for a while with one of the Mujahideen organizations he joined the Swedish Committee. He has studied at G ahzi High School and comes from Kabul.
                                        Council opens two schools
    The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council opened a primary school in Qala-i-Zal District, Kunduz Province, on July 17 and 70 students began,to attend the classes, Hindukush News Agency reported.
 . The school, called Mohammadia, has three classes and is situated in Nawabad area of Qala-i-Zal.
    A religious boarding school was opened by Education Committee of the SC in Qasan of Andarab on August 9 Fifty students attended the classes taught by four experienced teachers.
                                                   from page (2)
Naqibullah on August 24. Four soldiers defected the next day.
    Paktia Province
    The Mujahideen shot down two transport planes in Khost on August 22, Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani reported to MEDIA. The pilots and crew of the planes were killed.
    Another plane was shot down when it tried to land in Khost on August 18.
                                                  Kabul Province
    Six enemy soldiers were killed and one tank and one truck were destroyed on. August 19 when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Pir-e-Beland post with 107mm rockets.
    Two Mujahideen were killed when the enemy attacked the Mujahideen position with heavy weapons.
    The Mujahideen killed 14 soldiers, wounded 26 and seized 12 guns in an ambush in Arghandeh on August 27. The enemy air force bombed the area killing eight civilians and wounding 18,
    Arghandeh is located between Paghman and the city of Kabul.
                                            Ninrgarhari dies
    Mohammad ■ Gulab Ningarhari, the Secretary . General of die National liberation Front (Prof. Mujaddidi's party] died in Peshawar on August 18.
    Nangaihari had served in the Ministries of Tribal Affairs and Information and the Prime Minister's office in Kabul in different posts during the-time of King Zahir Shah. He became a refugee in Pakistan in 1979.
    Nangaihari was from Goshta district and belonged to the Mohmand Pushtun tribe. His body was taken to Ghushta for burial.
                                            Five Kabul regime diplomats defect
    Five diplomats posted in regime embassies refused to return to Kabul when they were asked to do so, sources close to the Kabul regime told the BBC. They include regime diplomats in Yugoslavia, North Korea, Kuwait, Hungary and Czechoslovakia. The diplomats who defected are believed to be members of the Khalq faction of die ruling party.
                                                          Appoldgy!
     Some of AFGHANews readers ask us to send them the Holy Quran and other Islamic books. We are sor-ry not to be able to help them. We suggest those in need of Islamic bodes to write to the addresses given below. They might be able to help them.
     flchlas Vakfi
     Darilssafaka Caddesi No. 57/A -P.K.35
     34262-Fatih, Istanbul - Turkey
     Rabitat Al- Aalam Al-Islami P.O.Box 537 A 538 Mecca Saudi Arabia
                                        AFGHANews Vol 6, No 17, September 1,1990, page ©
From Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
    The July 6 issue of Shoora, a fortnightly paper published by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council (S.C.) inside Afghanistan, has many interesting articles. Here is the summery of some die articles:
    Eid Celebrated
    Eid was celebrated all over. Afghanistan on July 2. The people of Taliqan offered Eid prayers in the central mosque of the city. Ulamas in their sermons threw light on the importance of Eid and the philosophy of sacrificing animals.
    Dr. Ahmad Mushahid, the Governor of Takhar, and Fahim, the Deputy Head of the Political Committee of the S.C. addressed the gathering and informed the people about about the political and military situation in the country.
    In a message on this occasion. Commander Masood praised the people of Afghanistan for the sacrifices they have given to defend their freedom and religion.       .
    The message said the Kabul regime, who had served the Soviets in the past, wanted to do so in the future under a different name, but the Mujahideen will not allow this to happen.
    The message s^id, despite attempts by a specific political leader to create rifts between the Mujahideen, efforts to unit the Resistance are making progress: The formation of the Commanders Council is a step towards that end. "Without achieving unity, victory will not be gained," the message said. Masood hoped that the Mujahideen will succeed in establishing an Islamic government in Afghanistan, something that people have fought for.
  Changes in PDPA
    Commenting on the PDPA’s second Congress the paper said that the attempt by Najib to blame the government's predecessors for all the crimes committed by the PDPA was not new. Babrak blamed Hafizullah Amin and Amin blamed Taraki for the killing of thousands of people. Taraki had blamed President Daud for all die mess in Afghanistan. .This was in line with
New Soviet rulers have always blamed their predecessors after they woe dead.
   ' The editorial says Najib has been involved in atrocities’against the people since the Soviet invasion. He was
 the Head of KHAD and then the loader of the puppet regime'. How could he not be responsible for what happened during his rule?
     The paper says the admissions made in the second Congress of the PDPA are enough to disqualify that party and its leaders from playing any role in the future political life of Afghans.
                                                       Najibullah faces Parcham coup
     The paper reveals that a group of Parchami officers staged a coup against Najib on May 12. The coup started with the firing of eight rockets on the Ministry of Defense at 1:30 p.m.
     The coup, however, was crushed quickly. Important army officers like General Abdur Rauf Baigi, General Nabi Azimi, General Arif Sakhra, Qa'dir Mia Khail, General Mohammad Esa and General Azimiiddin were aiirestied.
     The coup was organized by Mohmood Baryalai, Babrak's brother. Najib who was still suffering from the scars of Tanai's coup, found it difficult to publicise what had happened or keep the culprits behind the bars. Some of those involved were removed from their posts and others were sent abroad for what was called medical treatment General Baigi was sent to the Soviet Union. Arif Sakhra, the Deputy Head of WAD and the Political Head of that ministry, was sent to Czechoslovakia after being relieved from his duties.
     Differences within the Parcham faction began with the replacement of Karmal by Najib in 1984. Karmal was the first leader of the regime installed in power immediately after the Soviet invasion in December 1979.
     The paper said Khalqis have expressed their displeasure with the changes within the party.
     These differences have caused uncertainty within die armed forces of the Nqjib stationed in and around Kabul.
                                                      SC helps farmers
     The Reconstruction Committee of die Cmtr^2bne(d'theS.Chasdistributed7^10kil-ograms of improved, seed and .56^93 kilograms (dfotiliza'tothefaniiminl^jst^andKtqnsa.
     Engineer Ammuuddin Salik told the Shoora (hat his committee has helped die farmers in two villages in Panjshir to prepare their fields for cultivation
     He said, 12,428 animals have been protect-ed against different diseases by vets of his S.C. Reconstruction Committee in Panjshir and Kapisa.
    Russian MP
                                                         from first page
in Afghanistan?
    A. It was admitted publicly that we committed a dime in Afghanistan. It was called a " criminal mistake." But unfortunately we are speaking only about die past Nothing is said about the continuous supply of arms to the Najib regime.
    Our people also do not know what a grave Crime we have committed in the past. They do not know, for example, that one and half piillion Afghans were killed and the country was totally destroyed by our bombs and rockets.       _
    There is a need for the Russian people to know the depth of the Red Army's crimes in Afghanistan. I am trying my best, but it is not enough. If a Mujahideen delegation comes to Moscow and talks to the media and tells the Russian people the facts, it will be very effective. If people know the facts, they will be ashamed, /old they will try to find a way to do something.
    Q: Is it possible for a Mujahideen delegation to go to Russia and use the TV and the press, to inform the Russians about the facts?
    A: Yes, Yeltsin has extended an invitation to the Mujahideen to send a delegation to Moscow to meet him.
    The Mujahideen's trip to Moscow will be a big event. The TV and press will cover it with great interest. It is not prohibited any more to talk about Russian crimes. My critical speeches in die parliament are broadcasted on TV and published in newspapers.
 Plane hijacked
    Eleven Soviet citizens who had hijacked a Soviet plane to Karachi handed themselves over to the Pakistani authorities on August 20.
    The TU-145 passenger plane ' was brought to Karachi with 29 passengers and nine crew. The plane was on a domestic flight between twa Siberian cities when it was hijacked. A group of prisoners from a labour camp were among the passengers of the plane. They disarmed their guards and took control of the plane. No one was hurt in the incident.
    The Soviet authorities have asked for the extradition of the hijackers.
     fKdp us puBCtsk
                                                  (Please sendyour donations to the fottotving account numBer:
           nS&PD Account,(JS(p. 735-37 .. (HaBiB QankjLtd. VefkglWaPa, (Peshawar (Pakistan