Vol 6, No 9                                                  May 1,1990
            US, USSR prefer ballot box solution of Afghan crises
 Regime returns seized property
    The Kabul regime has announced that it is ready to return property to people from whom it had been confiscated by the government, for various reasons.
    Kabul sources have said {hat the step was taken for the sake of promoting      the      "National
 Reconciliation" program.
    A regime communique says that the property will be returned after ownership documents are produced. This condition will make it difficult for many people to claim their property because the ownership documents were either destroyed in the war or were taken when the property was confiscated.
    The decision is designed to lure the refugees back and to enhance the Kabul regime’s image.
     The Soviet Union has given two new types of weapon to the Kabul regime recently.
     One of the weapons is a new type of heavy rocket which was recently used in fighting in Paghman and Maidan. Specifications of the rocket are not available but it is said that it has the shape of jet fighter. Some reports say that these rockets are capable of delivering anti personnel mines to a target area. The new rockets are deployed in Kabul to improve the security of the city.
      The regime Special Guard has also received a new type of armored car of the DBR-2 type but it is not known how many of these vehicles they have been given., A Mujahideen source says that the purpose of giving the new weapons is to enhance the offensive capability of the regime army
     US and USSR foreign ministers discussed Afghanistan in their talks in Washington on April 6, but could not reach any significant agreement.
     The future rule of the Kabul regime is the main issue on which the two sides have opposing views. It is said that the two sides have shown interest in solving the issue through holding elections. The role of the Kabul regime in a transitional period is a contentious issue. The Soviet Union says that the Kabul regime is a major force in Afghanistan and should not be excluded from any solution. The Mujahideen refuse to participate in any process in which the regime is a part.
     The meeting of the foreign ministers of the two superpowers was held to prepare the ground for their coming summit in Washington. The two sides also discussed arms embargo to the warring groups. The Soviet Union wants an immediate arms embargo and cease-fire. The US says that the arms embargo must be part of a comprehen-
around the city.
     A Mujahideen source says that Soviet military advisors met with the commanders of Heavy Weapons and Special Guard of the regime recently in Kabul. They decided to intensify attacks against the Mujahideen outside the city of Kabul to force them to accept a cease-fire.
     The Kabul regime also has plans to order some of its agents who have infiltrated some of the the Mujahideen organizations to join the regime to demoralize the Resistance and convince the UN that the situation in Kabul is returning to normal. The UN wants to give economic aid for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Donor countries will help the UN program if the areas where it is implemented is relatively peaceful..-Hindukush News Agency (HINA)
 sive deal for a solution.
     It is suggested that the UN and the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) could play a role in supervising the polls.
     Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto met with King Fahd in Saudi Arabia, and discussed with him the Afghan issue. Finding a political solution to the Afghan problem was the main topic in discussions between the two leaders. Saudi Arabia is a major supporter of the Afghan Mujahideen.
     Iran's attitude towards any such program is vital because it has strong influence among the Shia parties. Any solution proposed by the US and Saudi Arabia will be looked on with suspicion in Iran. However, Iran seems interested in finding a political solution to the Afghan problem and its close relations with Moscow might help getting their agreement to solution agreed between the two superpowers.
     Pakistani leaders discussed with the resistance leaders, in Islamabad on April 22. Elections was the main topic in the discussions. The topic has generated a new hope for a political solution to the problem. The Mujahideen leaders will discuss the issue among themselves to formulate their proposal. Earlier the Mujahideen had announced holding elections in the liberated areas but faced difficulties because Shia parties did not take part and Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami leader, was opposed to the methods. A feature of die new election proposal is that it will be held in the Mujahideen-controlled areas as well as the cities controlled by the regime.
     Most of the Afghan resistance parties agree that the future of Afghanistan should be determined through elections but they are opposed to the participation of the Kabul regime in the process.
Regime receives new weapons
AFGHANews Vol6, No9, May 1, 1990, page©
   Kunduz Province
    The Kabul regime launched an attacked on Qala-i-Zal district on April 3, to re-establish their control over this border district.
    The Military Council of Kunduz under Commander Arif Khan decided to attack the enemy. In the fighting 30 enemy soldiers and eight militiamen were killed and three militiamen were captured.
    When the attack started, about 60 armed Mujahideen1 who had established contacts with the government openly joined the regime forces. They included 35 men from Jami'at, headed by Haji Shokoor, 16 men from Mahaz Milli headed by Safar Mohammad and a few others.
    As a result of heavy bombardment by the enemy artillery the residents of 20 villages close to the center of Qala-i-Zal took refuge in other liberated areas. The Mujahideen attacks on the enemy posts continue.
    •      On April 7, the Mujahideen from Jami’at captured 16 soldiers and seized six Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher, a wireless set and some ammunition when they attacked Pul-i-Khesht posts close to the city of Kunduz.
    •      A Jami'at commander was killed in fighting against Kabul regime troops in Aliabad sub-district on April 19. Commander Samiullah, known as Kandahari, was .killed when he led an attack against the enemy posts in Aliabad. Seven enemy troops were killed in the fighting.
   t Paktia Province
    An ammunition depot of the regime in Khost border town was set on fire when a Mujahideen rocket hit it on April 31. The ammunition dump
burned for 45 minutes and sound of explosions were heard until the next day.
    •     Commander Haqqani’s office in peshawar has reported shooting down of a regime jet with a Stinger missile on April 9. According to the sources the pilot of the plane. who landed safely with a parachute was killed by the Mujahideen when he tried to escape to to the government-controlled territory. The Mujahideen and regime soldiers observed a brief cease-fire in Khost front on April 12 enabling them to exchange the dead body of the regime pi-lpt with the body of a Mujahid killed in the attack against the enemy.
 Kandahar Province
                   \ ••
    Thirteen armed soldiers of the regime stationed in the security belt around the city of Kandahar joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Naqibullah on April 14.
    As a result of the Mujahideen attack on the regime posts around the city 12 soldiers were killed, three were injured and two were captured.
    •     An important Mujahideen commander in Kandahar passed away in Quetta, Pakistan. Commander Mughash from Prof. Mujaddidi's party died of an heart attack. His son has been appointed in his place to lead the Mujahideen in the war.
    Kabul Province
    On April 9, the Kabul regime launched a massive attack against the Mujahideen in Paphman, 25 kilometers west of the city of Kabul. The attack started at 4.00 in the morning with an heavy barrage of artillery and rockets on the Mujahideen positions. Later about 50 tanks and armored cars took part in the attack. According to Mullah
 Ezatullah, Jami’at Islami commander in Paghman, the aim of the regime forces was to capture the two strategic posts in Tapa and Pir Beland. The Mujahideen put up a tough resistance inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. According to the Hindukush News Agency, in the first few days of fighting the Mujahideen killed 20 enemy soldiers and wounded 17. Two tanks were also destroyed. The Mujahideen shot down a regime jet on April 14 . The pilot of the jet was killed.
    A spokesman for the Kabul regime claimed the infliction of heavy losses on the Mujahideen but refused to allow foreign journalists to visit the area.
    It is believed that regime's attack against Paghman was prompted by a Mujahideen rocket attack on the Kabul airport in which 14 people were killed
    Paghman is a stronghold of the Mujahideen. As a result of the continued fighting this resort town has been totally destroyed.
                                                                                               Ghore province
    The Mujahideen have shot down a regime helicopter in Sharak district killing all the 12 men on board. The helicopter was hit when it was about to land.
                                                                                               Logar province
    Four women and six children died when the regime planes bombed their villages near Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, on April 18.
    The air raid was carried out after the Mujahideen attacked a regime con voy and captured 20 regime soldiers. The convoy was on its way from Kabul to Logar.
                                                                                                Herat province
    Six militiamen defected to the Mujahideen in Toghoon Koh base of the Mujahideen in Pushtoon Zerghoon district on April 17.
    On April 12, regime planes bombed twice the Mujahideen base in Taqcha and Toghoon Koh but caused no casualties.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1, 1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
     Mohammad Ibrahim, known as Commander Sadiq, was bom into a religious family in Madad Khail village, of Chak District, 38 years ago.
     His father, Mohammad Alam, who is now 100 years old, is a religious scholar (Mawlawi) who worked as a store keeper in Chak Power Plant.
     Mohammad Ibrahim’s family led an average economic life. Ibrahim completed high school in Chak, then worked as a government officer in Bamyan, Kandahar, Herat and Farah provinces before joining the Mujahideen.
     Ibrahim's family had a history of rebellion against the rulers in Kabul. His grandfather. Mullah Subhan, was sent off to internal exile in Khanabad for his activities against King Amanullah. Like most Afghans he was not happy about the alien reforms which Amanullah had introduced, and considered them anti-Islamic. With the intercession of Hazrat Sahib-i-Shoor Bazar, an influential spiritual leader of Kabul, the family was able to return to Wardak after Amanullah was deposed in 1929.
     Mohammad Ibrahim was involved in the Islamic movement from childhood because his uncle, Maulawi Abdurrab, was a great religious scholar who published Gahiz, an Islamic news paper. He became the editor of the paper after its previous editor. Mujahideen Gahiz, was assassinated by Soviet agents in early seventies.
     Mawlawi Abdurrab was captured immediately after the April coup of 1978 along with his son, a nephew and two other relatives. They never returned home. It is thought they were killed secretly by the communist regime.
     In 1979, Mohammad Ibrahim left his job in the government and joined the Mujahideen. At the start, he headed the Recruiting Committee of Jami'at in Chak. After one year he was chosen as the Jami'at commander for the district His headquarters is located at the Chak Power Plant.
     Some of Commander Ibrahim's operations have included the following:
     In 1980 the Soviets launched a large attack against the Chak Valley. In heavy fighting between them and the Mujahideen, the Soviets and regime forces suffered heavy casualties. Some Mujahideen and civilians were also killed.
     The Mujahideen's successful defense was possible because they were
well-armed. The Kabul regime had distributed more than 10,000 guns in Wardak to be used against Mujahideen in Hazarajat, who had revolted against the communist regime in Kabul. The people from Wardak took the guns, but used them against the Soviets and the regime.
    In an ambush on Kabul-Ghazni road near Saikh Abad in June 1986 Commander Ibrahim's Mujahideen destroyed six trucks and ten tanks and armored cars, and killed a great many enemy troops.
    In fall of 1984 Chak district was liberated by Mujahideen. Jami'at played an important role.
    Commander Ibrahim is from the Mir Khail tribe and his mother tongue is Pushtu. He is married and has five children.
                                NEW DUPUTY FOR WAD
   The Kabul regime has appointed General Hasamuddin Hasam as the Deputy Minister of Sate Security, WAD.
   The former deputy minister of WAD, General Razminda was killed in Herat along with other ranking regime officers on April 6.
   The new deputy minister of WAD visited Pushtoon Zarghoon district, the scene of the recent clashes in which many regime officers were killed by the Mujahideen.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
         4j                  j
A broken hand can work but a broken hear can’t.
Meaning: A physical handicap can be overcome, but a wounded spirit cannot be overcome.
Ji,
  A*
                                                                                                                \j
                                                                                                             Aii,
 May God not make one hand dependent on the other.
 Meaning: Each one should bear his burden and should his own responsibilities.
          AJJLqi iyj        tfJoJUMJ
 Hearing is never as good as seeing. Meaning: One picture is worth thousands of words.
 A bad wound heals, but a bad word doesn't.
 Meaning: A cruel tongue does more harm than sharp sword.
                                                                                                                     6 j*?
                                                                                                              O£ wL*£k£i>

The goat hiding from death passed the night in the butcher’s house. Meaning: Out of the frying pan into the fire.


messenger, peace and blessings of Allah be on him, forbade trade in which there
Illil
 wmm
 liiitii
 1BF8*
is vagueness and deception (Gharar )
     ..     . ;s:i     '•
and trade based on chance.

                                                                                              have yet to be caught
 a birds siiit in the

AFGHANews Vol6, No 9, May 1,1990, page ©
        P.OJSox 264, Peshawar- Paidssai im (0521) *1381 t' 1
        % - ________________________--- " <, ? ,, \
  Editorial


                                  Soviet agents should be barred from taking part in politics
     In their last meeting in Washington US and Soviet Union foriegn ministers have shown interest in the idea of solving the Afghan issue through holding general elections, but they differ over the rule of Najib in the transitional period. The AIG leaders have also discussed this option with the Government of Pakistan recently.
     Jami’at supports the idea of giving the Afghan people a chance to determine their future and holding elections is one way to exercise this right. At the same time Jami'at thinks that there are many difficulties in holding general elections in Afghanistan. The continuation of war , displacement of a large number of the population within and out of the country, division of the country into liberated and regime-controlled zones and controversy over electoral constituencies are some of these problems. These factors have prevented the AIG plan of holding elections from being implemented. But, the major problem is the question of the participation of the communist regime in elections.
     All the Mujahideen believe that the Kabul regime has disqualified itself from Afghan politics, because of the crimes it has committed during and after the Soviet occupation. The Mujahideen will oppose any move which will give legitimacy to the Kabul regime. The participation of the Kabul regime in elections will give it legitimacy, obscure Soviets crimes committed against Afghans and pave the way for continued Soviet interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
     Soviets propose Nicaraguan and Namibian examples as a model for the solution of Afghan problem. But the communist regime in Kabul which is the product of the 1979 Soviet invasion cannot be compared to any existing governments in the world. This regime is responsible for killing one million of its own people and has been collaborating with Soviet invaders. Its leader was the head of KHAD, a terrorist organization, and the regime has come to power with the help of the Red Army, More than that it exercises little control over the people and territory of Afghanistan.
     This regime could not even be compared with the Nazis in Germany because they killed outsiders and the Kabul regime kills its own people.
     Afghans who have fought for more than a decade under the banner of Islam will not accept the participation of the Godless communists in any political process.
     Therefore; before holding any election the power must be transferred to a representative government and the PDPA should not be allowed to contest the elections.
     A broad-based AIG could play a transitional role. The other option is the creation of a representative council from the representatives of each party, national and religious personalities and field commanders. The representatives of the old regime and good Muslims from the areas presently controlled by the Kabul regime can be included in the council. This council should have executive, as well as law-making power to be able to take care of law and order and hold general elections for a permanent body.
     The positive attitude of the Soviets is very important for any plan to be successful. The Soviet Union; mi important power and a neighbor of Afghanistan, is responsible for the Afghan tragedy. Its military and financial support has enabled the Kabul regime to survive so far. While the Soviet Union talks about the right of Afghans to determine their future; by giving massive military and financial support to the Kabul regime it prevents the Afghan people from determining their future. Gorbachev calls the 1979 invasion of Afghanistan illegal but defends the product of that invasion. The tragedy of Afghanistan will continue as long as the Soviets "new thinking" has not affected their Afghan policy.
     Worry about the security of their Southern border might be the main reason for contradiction in Soviet's Afghan policy. This issue could be addressed through negotiations with the Mujahideen. An unstable Afghanistan could be a source of worry to its neighbors. Stability will not return to Afghanistan with the presence of the Kabul regime.
     Despite past unpleasant relations with the Soviet Union, Afghans are ready to resume normal relations with that country based on mutual respect if the Soviet Union abandons its policy of interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. To show this it should stop supporting the illegitimate and unpopular regime in Kabul.
Communist block
From page (6)
 Muslim who irritates a non-Muslim living in an Islamic society irritates me".
     We are also a witness of significant changes in the Muslim world. The struggle of the Mujahideen in Afghanistan have had an effect in these developments. The struggle of Palestinians for liberation from Zionist occupation has intensified in a new form. In the past the Palestine resistance was divided into groups, each following alien ideologies or Arab nationalism. Out of frustration some of their leaders accepted humiliating peace terms. The struggle by unarmed women and children under the banner of Islam changed the Situation. It has given a new hope for Palestine’s liberation and has created many problems for the Zionists.
     Another issue concerning the Muslim world is the mass immigration of Soviet Jews to Palestine. We are afraid that the massacre of Dir Yasin, Hifa and Jafa might be repeated by these new immigrants. The situation is leading to war which will not remain limited to Palestine. It will de-stabilize the world and harm humanity.
     The struggle of Muslims in Kashmir is an important development Muslims in Kashmir have been deprived of their right for self determination by India for a long time. This is the main cause of the trouble in Kashmir. We support their just cause and advise India to give Kashmiris their right to choose their future basec on the UN resolutions. The Islamic countries should support Kashmiris in their struggle and put pressure on India to abide by the UN resolutions on the issue. India’s threat to wage a war against Pakistan will not solve Kashmir.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1, 1990, page ©
           Hezb negotiates secretly with regime, Soviets
     A ranking regime officer has told a Kuwaiti journalist that Hezb Islami Hikmatyar representatives have met regime officials two times. The first meeting was held in Baghdad with the mediation of PLO chief, Yaser Arafat, and the second meeting in Libya with the mediation of Libyan officials. The news was revealed by Najmuddin Kawyani a politburo member of PDPA, in an interview with Al-Syassah Daily in Kabul. The interview was published in the March 18 edition of the paper.
     Kawyani said two representatives of Hezb, Abdul Qadir Karyab and Ghairat Bahir met with representatives of the Kabul regime in the Palestine Embassy in the presence of Yaser Arafat about six months before the completion of the Soviet troops withdrawal. Qadir Karyab is the head of the Political Office of Hezb and Ghairat Bahir the head of the Special Office of Hezb and Hikmatyar’s son-in-law. He said the representatives of Hezb met with the regime delegation on condition that the meeting should remain secret.
     The second meeting was organized by Dr. Ahmad Sharif the head of a Libyan religious organization call Dawatul-Islamiah. Arafat had shown a desire for mediation between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime. Other Mujahideen parties rejected the idea. Arafat met with Hikmatyar in Islamabad in 1989 when he visited
 Pakistan.
     While the Baghdad meeting was earlier reported by some papers the news about meeting in Libya was new.
     Hezb Islami reject any type of contact with the Kabul regime. Kawyani has also disclosed his meeting with Ahmad Gailani, son of Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of NIFA, a moderate Mujahideen party.
     Contacts between Hezb Islami and the Soviets have increased recently. A few weeks ago a Hezb Islami paper, Shahadat, published an interview of Hezb leader with ’ a panel of Soviet journalists' . One of the so-called Soviet journalists was a Middle East expert with close ties with Govrbachev. Hezb sources have revealed meetings between the Soviet officials and a Hezb delegation in West Germany recently. The meetings between the.two sides continued for two days. The Hezb delegation was led by Ghairat Bahir.
     A Soviet delegation visited Hezb’s Political Office on April 19 to discuss the prisoners of war issue with that party’s officials. Independent contacts be tween Hezb and the Soviets was main tained even when Hezb was a member the AIG, but these contacts were kept secret. Since Hezb left the AIG the contacts with the Soviets are publicized.
Jami'at leader praises role of disabled Mujahideen in Jehad
     Prof. Rabbani gave a dinner party for a group of handicapped Mujahideen on April 15. Addressing the gathering, Jami'at leader praised the contribution of the handicapped Mujahideen in forcing the Soviets to leave Afghanistan. He called the handicapped Mujahideen " the living martyrs of the Islamic revolution”.
     Dr. Haqbeen, the representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar, told the gathering that the war-wounded Mujahideen were eager to be treated quickly so that they could return to the front and resume their activities. He said a few groups of such people returned to the battlefield last year after receiving necessary
  treatment.
     The head of handicapped affairs department of AIG has said that since his department started working some months ago, more than 10,000 handicapped Mujahideen have been regis tered and identification cards have been distributed to them. Each registered handicapped will get a monthly allow ance from the AIG. He said friendly Countries and private relief organizations have been helping the handicapped Mujahideen by providing them with artificial limbs and treating them.
     The ten years of war has made a large number of Afghans handicapped. They need to be taken care of and most of them also have families to be supported.
     A BBC reporter from. Kabul says that the people in Kabul suffer from tiigh prices.;
                                                                                                                                            get
                                                                                                           a monthly salary of 7,000 Afs. while |kU6gi^f^: lamb can befound
     According to diplomatic sources Soviets have increased the number of their military advisors in Afghanistan to500men.
     Until TanaiT$ coup there were 300 Soviet advisors who helped the advisors are stationed in f Kabul,: Mazar and Kunduz* provinces, Soviets deny in >|®ei||||bf th^|d^ors in combat activities;':-
 % ' »**
                                                                                                           y J The Kabul regime has iappointed
 fraud &&zm Yar, one of the secretaries of ti^PDPA, as file new ambassador of the regime to
     He replaces Sayed Mohammad Gulabzoy who was accused' of supporting Tanal's coup;;.;:
     Razm Yar is a graduate Of econo tny from the Soviet Union,
                         ... .
                                                                                                                                      of hu^ari
 tights says that 25,000 members of the regime’s 's^irei police work under IliM^utrol oE'KGB' bfecerisl||| was sent to the Congress says Jhat              wit-
 nessjto; anyimpjtoyem    m;(uie;liu
                                                                                                           man rightssituation in M^amstan.-• ItyAfr w^createdsmfi by
                                                                                                                                            the
               was thepst leader of WAD^ In addition p activities it also has armed groups ivho-^are"' epi|d§i |Jg Ughtllnd
             . -The . training . ’ program'. . of Freedom Medicine was rmally
 pttilpiby^td                Mini^oH
 the AJ^.^:A^rU::
                                                                                                           rx>:v;;:^itjuh-': bnp;$£ai, the Aid wil take over all the activities of Freedom
 Medicin^^^:^;;'
 §1            Medicine has  two
 pitals in F^isian for Afg&rijrclu gees and supports many clinics inside Sg&istar®
                              AFGHANews Vol 6, No 9, May 1,1990, page ©
              Changes in communist block began when Soviets failed in Afghanistan
    On the occasion of Eid, Jami'at leader. Prof. Rabbani, has sent a message to the Afghan nation. In his message he has touched on major issues concerning the Islamic movement and the Mujahideen. We present here some of the more important points of his long message:
    This year's Eid comes in the spring, the beginning of the Afghan year. Two events have just taken place which are of tremendous importance to our cause.
    T
     JL he first event was the coup attempt in Kabul against Najib. This coup had its roots in the power struggle between the two factions of the communist party. It was not the product of efforts of a party outside the government. If that party (Hezb) involved itself in the power struggle after it had happened, it was motivated by a thirst for power which it was prepared to take by any means.
     The Mujahideen should not have involved themselves in the power struggle between the communist factions of Khalq and Parcham. They should only exploit these difference for the benefit of Jehad without abandoning their principle position.
    Regime personnel when they surrender to the Mujahideen could be forgiven but ah alliance with communist factions is not acceptable to our Mujahid nation.
    The second important event which happened during the holy month of Ramazan was the Mujahideen operation in Herat in which a large number of prominent regime officers were killed. This was an important episode because it dealt a severe blow to the regime’s ’Reconciliation Program".
    The War in Afghanistan has not come to an end because the Soviet Union continues to support the puppet regime in Kabul.
    To break the present stalemate holding elections in Afghanistan is proposed. But in a war-tom country where security is a problem holding polls and the establishment of a broad-based government for a transitional period is not a simple task. While Jami'at in principle supports the idea of consultation with the people and giving them a chance to determine their future, it believes that as long as the war continues and the Kabul regime organizations are still active, holding general dections in
 the country will be difficult. In order to give a chance to the people to express themselves about their future, Jami’at supported the election program of the AIG but there are still problems in the way. Election constituencies do not take into account the population density. At the same time taking a census in a war situation is difficult Therefore, Jami'at supports elections based on old constituencies for the creation of a transitional body. When the situation permits constituencies should be remarked so that the population density is reflected.
     The idea of a coalition government with the communists was first proposed by the Soviets in their talks with the Mujahideen in Taif, Saudi Arabia. The Mujahideen rejected the idea and described it as an interference in the internal affairs of Afghans. In 1988, the UN Secretary General raised the same issue with the head of the Mujahideen Alliance. The Mujahideen delegation told the UN head that the interpretation of human rights should be the same in the West and Islamic countries. How could we compromise with the communists in Kabul while after half a century the Nazi officers are tried in the West for their war crimes. The ex-head of the UN Mr. Kurt Welheim who is the current president of his country is barred from entering some countries because he served once in the Nazi Army. How could the Mujahideen sit with Najib who has committed tremendous crimes against Afghans.
     w
       V ▼ e believe that the AIG can play a temporary role to replace Najib. A revolutionary council with the participation of all Mujahideen groups, national and religious personalities and field commanders can also act as a temporary organization until a permanent government is set up. The election commission set up by the AIG can also do this job if its base is broadened and competent personalities are introduced to it.
     The last option requires abolishing of the regime's organization of terror so that the present security organization could protect law and order with the help of the Mujahideen.
     I want to express Jami'at's view on Agha Khan's plan for the return of refugees in 'peace and tranquility zones'.
     The conditions under which the refugees were forced to leave their
 country has not changed. Afghans who love their country left it to protect their religion and honor. Jami'at's policy was to prevent the depopulation of the country. We were aware of the complication the refugees were to face when they were displaced. Now Jami’at opposes the return of the refugees under any program not approved by the Mujahideen. We do not want the refugees to return under the supervision of those UN offices about whose intentions we have doubts.
     There are practical problems in the way of returning refugees. Fighting still continues; villages are destroyed; food is not available and minefields have not yet been cleared. If peace zones are within the Mujahideen-controlled territory, their security could not be guaranteed. If the aim of this programme is to help the National Reconciliation program of the regime we reject it. If peace zones are within the regime territory, taking refugees to these areas is making them hostages of the communists.
     T
     An the international arena, we are a witness to the crumbling of the communist system . This development has given a hope to the oppressed nations of the world. The great changes in the communist camp started with the failure of the Soviet adventure in Afghanistan. Nations under the oppressive rule of communists were inspired by the heroic resistance of the Afghan people. Our Jehad also prompted changes in the Soviet Union itself. Struggle for independence in different Soviet republics, both with Muslim and Christian populations, has started. The reaction of the Soviet leader and the West towards the changes in different parts of the Soviet Union has been different. Gorbachev suppressed the mass demonstration of Muslims in Baku and Dushanbe using armed force and the West which has proclaimed itself as the guardian of human rights justified his action. But Gorbachev's reaction towards the Lithuania is reserved and the West warns Moscow against any armed action there.
     Human rights standards should not change because of religious believes. In an Islamic government the rights of a Muslim are no different from those of Jews or Christians. The great prophet of Islam has said "a
                                                            Turn to page (4)
Vol 6, No 10                                                May 15,1990
 Sadruddin uses US donation for 'Tranquil Zones'
    The United States has contributed 13.5 million dollars to the United Nations relief fund for Afghanistan.
    The check was handed over by an American official to Sadruddin Agha Khan, UN Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs , Relating to Afghanistan, in Geneva on April 30.
    Sadruddin said the money will be spent to promote 'zones of tranquility' inside Afghanistan.
    The Mujahideen have criticized Prince Sadruddins's proposal for creation of 'zones of tranquility' because it envisages observation of cease-fires by the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen are also critical of the way that Sadruddin's office carries out his missions inside Afghanistan. They complain that UN officials do not treat the two sides of the conflict equally and that they are biased towards the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
                                            US sends apple seedlings to free Afghanistan
    The US has donated 93,000 apple-tree seedlings to Afghanistan on the occasion of Earth Day 1990. The climate in Afghanistan is particularly suitable for growing apples and other fruit; but the Soviet invasion caused the destruction of most of the country's orchards.
    The seedlings were purchased in Turkey and airlifted to Pakistan, then transported on trucks to Kunar, Wardak, Ghazni and Logar provinces.
                                            I Wounded children i
| Thirty-Six wounded children* | have been taken from Kabul to West j | Germany for medical treatment | Kabul regime radio alleged that | the children were wounded by rock-lets fired on Kabul by the I Mujahideen. The children were taken I to Germany by the Peace Village I (possibly a communist organization).
             'Salvation Society' criticizes regime's two-faced policy
     Asghar Khan, an ex-minister and present head of the Afghanistan Salvation Society, a so-called independent organization, has said that Najibullah talks about changes without taking any action to introduce them.
     He told a BBC correspondent in Kabul that regime should have realized that Afghans do not want a communist party.
     The Afghanistan Salvation Society claims to have been independently established by ex-army officers and civil servants to promote peace.
     Asghar Khan also criticized the Mujahideen for lack of unity and failure to offer a comprehensive program to solve the current problem of Afghanistan.
     He said groups presently cooperating with the Kabul regime are leftist and their participation does not change one-party rule in Afghanistan.
     The Salvation Society was formed after the Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989. Its leaders have not participated in Jehad against the Soviet occupation. Because of this the resistance is suspicious of their claims of Independence
 from the regime.
      The Salvation Society supports the solution of the Afghan problem through negotiations between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, something that the Kabul regime supports. There is thus good reason for the regime to allow such so-called independent groups to carry out their activities. It improves regime's image and provides free publicity for the official policy of the regime. Personal ambi tions of the members to regain influence in the future may be a motive behind their decision to form the Salvation Society. In view of the un compromising attitudes of the Mujahideen and communists towards one another, the politicians see an opportunity for themselves to be indepen dent peace makers.
      The UN has been studying this is sue for some time. Similar'independent groups' also exist in exile, in Pakistan and the west, who are encouraged by organizations which believe in a third party solution of the Afghan problem.
ICRC claims arranging local cease-fires
     The International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) has said it has been able to arrange, for the first time in Afghanistan, two local cease-fires for treatment of non-combatants wounded in the war.
     A press release of ICRC in Geneva says that a local cease-fire was arranged between the regime and the Mujahideen in Mazar during which 90 wounded civilians were treated by an ICRC surgical mobile team. The team entered the Mujahideen area from Mazar, which is controlled the Kabul regime.
     One week later, on April 12, an ICRC team took two wounded children and one old man from Maidan Shar, Wardak Province, to the ICRC hospital in Kabul after a brief cease-fire between
 the two sides.
     Red Cross staff interpret these two cease-fires as a sign of the confidence of the two sides in the conflict^-the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime- in their organization.
     Hie Mujahideen started to mistrust ICRC when it involved itself in securing the release of some Soviet prison ers captured by the Mujahideen in the first years of 1980s. Hie Mujahideen expected their action be reciprocate* by the Soviets but it was not.
     Later, ICRC opened a hospital in Kabul and in some other cities con trolled by the regime, but refused to open hospitals in the areas controlle* by the Mujahideen.
Turn to page (2)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
   News'.
iff ft
From The Battlefields
  _______________________________
    Herat Province
    •On April 21, Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked an enemy convoy in Adraskan district, destroying 30 tanks and trucks and killing an unknown number of soldiers.
    •On April 23, Mujahideen under the command of Ali Mohammad destroyed six armored cars and ten tanks in Delaram district Four armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen.
    •On April 22, one truck was blown up by a mine planted by the Mujahideen, killing and wounding five soldiers in Injel district
    •On April 26, one tank was destroyed and 12 soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the regime Army Corps in Herat.
    •On April 28, a Mujahideen rpcket hit the provincial administrative offices of Herat, setting the building on fire.
    •On April 28, the Mujahideen killed several enemy soldiers and set fire to an ammunition dump in Adraskan district when they fired rockets into the enemy position.
    On the same date five weapons were Captured in Khwajd Malal area of Kushk District and several soldiers were killed by the Mujahideen.
    •On April 29, two enemy soldiers were killed and two wounded in Kushk district by the Mujahideen.
    Kabul Province
    Fifty trucks were set on fire and 10 were destroyed when a time-bomb planted by Mujahideen exploded in a regime supply convoy near Pul-i-Charkhi on April 24.
    The convoy, which was composed of 80 trucks, had brought artillery shells from Mazar to Kabul. Four soldiers and two officers of the convoy were killed. A nearby building was set on fire.
    According to Hindukush News Agency, sympathizers of the Supervisory Council planted the time-
v
 bomb at 8:15 in the evening. It exploded at 10:20p.m.
    A BBC correspondent reported a huge explosion 15 kilometers east of Kabul city, but regime officers told him that explosions in the convoy resulted from soldiers firing to celebrate Eid. Eid, however, began the day after die explosion.
    Later a regime spokesman confirmed that the explosion involved trucks full of artillery shells. An eyewitness reported from Kabul that the convoy burned for four hours after the explosions, which rocked buildings in the city.
    •Nineteen people were killed when rockets, allegedly fired by Mujahideen, hit Kabul on April 23.
    Ghazni Province
    From 23 March to 17 April, the Mujahideen from Jami’at killed eight regime officers, 38 soldiers and injured 32 soldiers in different operations in Ghazni Province.
    They also destroyed one armored car and three jeeps, captured two posts and set on fire a logistics depot of the regime in Ghazni airport, south of the city.
    Four Mujahideen were killed and seven were injured during this period.
    Faryab Province
    Thirty-five women and children were killed in Darzab district on April 15 when regime planes indiscriminately bombed different parts of the district, an eyewitness told MIDI A.
    Paktia Province
    The Mujahideen recently shot down two transport planes at Khost.
    The first plane was hit when it tried to land at Khost airport on April 20. The second plane was shot down on May 2. The planes had brought supplies to the besieged city.
     Jalaluddin Haqqani has said the Kabul regime fires three to four SCUD missile each day at the Mujahideen on the Khost front.
                                              Casualty figures disputed in USSR
    The total of 13,833 Soviet fatalities in Afghanistan reported from Pravda in the last issue of CACC (8/ 5,pp. 14-15) has subsequently been questioned in a number of Soviet publications, notably the radical weekly Argumenty i Fakty and (earlier) the Estonian Komsomol newspaper Noorte Hall. They estimate the number of Soviet deaths to be in the region of forty of fifty thousand, more in line with Western estimates.
    [Central Asia and Caucasus Chronicle Vol. 8 No. 6]
                                                ICRC's ceas-fires
                                                      From page (1)
    After the Soviet troop withdrawal, ICRC intensified its activities to collect information about missing Soviet soldiers, without paying equal attention to missing Afghans.
    The main task of ICRC at present seems to be sending teams inside Afghanistan to cross from regime-controlled zone . to the Mujahideen-controlled areas and vice versa, similar to a program followed by Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan's "Operation Salam.”
    Since these missions give the impression of compromise between the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen and end to the fighting, the Mujahideen parties oppose it. But, these programs have the blessings of the Kabul regime because they serve the political purposes of its ’national reconciliation program'.
    AfghaNews has learned from sources inside Afghanistan that an ICRC team last summer tried to persuade a commander to agree to treatment of his wounded Mujahideen in the ICRC hospital in Kabul, by giving him false information that a commander from another rival Mujahideen party had accepted such an arrangement. Later it was learned that story was not true.
    Since the Resistance does not act as a united4 body in dealing with the ICRC and UN agencies, they always find a way to deal with minor commanders. Those commanders believe in their "humanitarian tales" without realizing the negative political and psychological implications toward Jehad of such arrangements.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Western relief body attacked I ^ by angry
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
     A foreign organization working in the refugee camps was attacked by about 10,000 angry Afghan refugees on April 26, and suffered heavy material losses* Nobody was hurt in the incident.
     The refugees in Nasir Bagh Camp, near Peshawar, attacked Shelter Now International (SNI) on the first day of Eid. the Material losses to SNI are estimated at about one million US dollars.
     There are conflicting reports about the 'cause of the attack, which is said to have been the first of its kind against a foreign relief organization by refugees in Pakistan.
     Some refugees have told reporters that SNI had provided recreation facilities for widows in the camp. Some refugees considered this an insult to the Afghan women and reacted violently.
     SNI has also been accused of taking pictures and video tapes of Afghan women, which is resented by the refugees. The organization was also accused of spreading Christianity among the refugees.
     The chairman of SNI, Thor Armstrong, told reporters in Peshawar that his organization had done nothing against the religion and tradition of Afghan refugees. He said a local paper played a role in inciting the people against SNI.
     Wahdat Daily had published a report about the activities of SNI, based on reports provided by Afghan News Agency of Hezb Islam i Hikmatyar.
     Twenty-five Afghan refugees have been detained by Pakistani authorities in connection with the incident.
     Rustam Shah Mohmand, Home Secretary of N.W.FP, told the BBC that the government is investigating the causes of the incident
     He said those found responsible will be tried under Pakistani law. He said the refugees' accusations against SNI also will be investigated to ensure that SNI has not violated its mandate.
     SNI, an Australian relief organization, was founded in 1982. It has provided houses and food for needy refugees. SNI has employed both Afghans and foreigners to run the organization.
     Since the incident took place during Eid holy days, there was not enough police force available to check the crowd, which resulted in the heavy material losses to SNI.
     It may be some time before the reasons behind the incident are uncovered, but one can guess at some of the possibilities which might have led to
 the outbreak of violence against SNI.
     Any project for the women in Afghanistan must be planned and applied with special care. Afghans are religious people, and believe strongly in tradition. The irresponsible behavior of previous governments and the communist onslaught on religious and traditional values of the society has made Afghans more sensative.
     Unfortunately most of the foreign organizations working for Afghanistan have only a superficial understanding of Afghan traditions and religious values. Their contact is frequently limited ■to a few educated, elite Afghans whose thinking differs from the majority of the people. This could have been the source of mistakes which irritated the refugees.
     The Kabul regime is interested in such incidents to exploit them for political ends. It has the means to plan and execute such actions to defame the Mujahideen and undermine international support for the refugees.
     But the possibility that the incident was a politically motivated action by Some Mujahideen political parties cannot be ruled out.
     No doubt such incidents will be used against Afghans by their enemies. Moscow Radio used the incident as a propaganda chip against the resistance.
     A spokesman for Prof. Mujaddidi described the incident as "a sad development" for, the relief work of voluntary organizations at a time when the refugees need their support.
     The incident has pleased anti-western groups interested in Afghanistan, they call it an uprising of Muslims against negative western influence.
iLlm* , JuuLJ ciLo L

If you sit with moon, you will become like moon; if you sit beside a cooking pot, you will get black.
Meaning: You reflect the company you keep.
               <sy^
Not to be considered queer conform to the crowd.
Meaning: If you don't want to look silly, look like others.
          s'*.4*
Between brother and brother, accounts should be square.
Meaning: Even among friends, business should be carried on an exact basis.
                                                           tSJ Jj *jJj
Even an ant is brave ip its own home.
Meaning: A cock crows loudest on his own dunghill.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page Q
  Editorial
                                  Minor changes in Kabul desinged to improve Najibullah's image
    The Kabul regime has initiated, some political maneuvers, since lifting the state of emergency, to improve its image inside and outside Afghanistan. These political moves have been backed by military actions launched in several parts of Afghanistan.
    The state of emergency, imposed in February 1989 after the Soviet troop withdrawal, was lifted on May 2. Meanwhile the Kabul regime announced formation of a "Loya Jirga" to revise the regime’s constitution. After that, a congress of the PDPA will be formed to introduce some changes in the party program. These steps will pave the way for the participation of some other groups in the government to give it an image of a multi-party system.
    Some of the parties planned to joined the regime have already been formed, and others will be formed in the future. Among them Najib has permitted the formation of a party called Hizbullah (the party of God). It is not known who is the leader of this so-called Islamic party and who are its members.
    Other parties which have already been formed are leftist groups which were once part of the PDPA, and had cooperated with the Soviets during the occupation of Afghanistan.
    These steps have been taken at a time when the positions of the two superpowers are converging toward a solution of the Afghan issue by holding general elections.
    The only sticking point is disagreement over the role of Najib during elections.
    A senior US State Department official, Mr. Kimitt, has said that the US government is not opposed to the participation of Najib in the election. This is a major concession to the Kabul regime.
    The Mujahideen have said they will not agree to the participation of Najib and his party in the elections.
    Afghanistan will be a topic of discussion in Moscow between the Soviet and US foreign ministers in Moscow when they meet from 16 to 19 May. Soviet and US leaders will also discuss Afghanistan in their five-day summit in Washington which will start on May 30.
    The Mujahideen leaders discussed the election option with the-president and prime minister of Pakistan on April 22. They are working to formulate their response to the proposal. A spokesman of the Mujahideen interim government rejected the press reports that the Mujahideen leaders have decided to abandon military actions in favor of a political solution.
    To draw the sympathy of the US to its political initiatives, Najib passed an anti-drug law at the time when he announced his political program. In an interview with an American paper he asked for American help to fight drugs and to treat drug addicts.
    Regime anti-drug moves come at a time when the Western media is publishing long stories about some Mujahideen commanders' involvement in poppy cultivation. The ploy is designed to mislead public opinion in the West about the true situation in Afghanistan, and turn them against the resistance. ;
    The Kabul regime has backed up its political moves with selective military operations. Attempts to send a supply convoy to Kandahar, operations in Logar and attacks against the Mujahideen in Jalalabad are designed to show that the regime has emerged stronger from the March 6 Tanai coup attempt and the Mujahideen attack in Herat one month later.       . '
    The official spokesman of the AIG said the Mujahideen will not be satisfied with anything less than the transfer of power from the PDPA,
    While most Afghans agree with die AIG statement^ they expect to see concrete political and military steps by the AIG to counter the regime's designs.
                                                   WAD activities against Pakistan show a decline
    A US State Department reports on global terrorism says that sabotage activities of WAD, the Kabul regime secret police, against Pakistan have shown a decrease in 1989.
    There were 16 terrorist bombings and two armed attacks attributable to WAD in 1989, reflecting a downward trend in WAD's operations inside Pakistan since the second half of 1988.
    WAD conducted 118 terrorist operations against targets in Pakistan in 1988.
    The pullout of Soviet forces from Afghanistan probably forced the Kabul regime to redirect WAD's manpower away from external operations, to counter the insurgency inside Afghanistan, the report says.
    The other reason for the decrease , according to the report, is the closure of border infiltration routes into Pakistan by the Mujahideen. Prior to the Soviet troop withdrawal, regime forces withdrew to heavily defended urban areas, allowing the resistance to take control of the areas along the Pak-Afghan border.
      WAD nevertheless has retained capability to conduct terrorist operations against Afghan targets inside Pakistan.
 Dr. Najib appoints Vice President, PM
    Najib has appointed Sultan Ali Keshtmand as the vice president of the regime, and Fazel Haq Khaliqyar as prime minister.
    Keshtmand had served as prime minister of the regime sirice the withdrawal of Soviet troops in February 1989. He is a Hazara and longtime member of the Parcham faction of the PDPA.
   - Khaliqyar, who earlier served as governor of Herat, was seriously injured when the Mujahideen attacked a political rally one month ago in Pushtoon Zarghoon district
    Khaliqyar, who claims not be a member of the PDPA, had succeeded in turning some ex-Mujahideen into militias in Herat.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Comment by:
Mohammand Es’hciq
Najib blames party ideology for Afghan people’s tragedy
     Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has admitted that his party's Marxist-Leninist ideology has been the main cause of the tragedy of Afghanistan.
     Talking to party workers in KabqJ on April 22, he stressed the need for changes in the program of the People's Democratic Party (PDPA) to bridge the existing gap between the people and the party.
     Najib told his party comrades that he had abandoned socialism two years ago and that it had been a radical step for a party which had been fighting a socialist revolution fpr 20 years. He said socialist ideals could not solve the current problems of Afghan society.
     He said the new ideology of his party was the struggle for National Reconciliation. He claimed that national reconciliation respected religion and society's traditions.
     The leader of the communist regime revealed the difficulties communists were facing in religious and traditional Afghan society. He said communist activitists were not able to go ttf Muslim workers and farmers to express their true beliefs. He said 95 percent of the party members who have joined the party since the coup of 1978 have done so for reasons other than communist ideology. These members have no information about the basics of communism.
     Najib said the original members who had joined the party before the coup believed in Marxism-Leninism. They genuinely believed that a Marxist revolution could solve the country's problems. These comrades, Najib said, now form only three percent of the party, and their beliefs have been culled from books with no regard for the realities of Afghan society.
     Najib's admission of the mistakes of the PDPA is neither complete and nor based on an honest attempt to correct them. But the admissions are very significant since they have been made by the party's leader.
     From Najib statement one can draw the following conclusions:
     1-       PDPA was founded by Marxists . and it was struggling for a communist revolution.
     2-      The communist policies, of the PDPA is the main cause of the current tragedy in Afghanistan. These policies hurt the religious feeling of the people
 and made the people ready for armed struggle. In the past the regime said that the external factors were the principle factor behind the people’s uprising.
     3-       There is big mistrust between the people and PDPA. The party people cannot reveal their true ideological believes to the ordinary workers of the party, leave alone the common men who are not party members.
     4-       The past actions of Hezb has been described as mistakes which were motivated by good intentions of party leaders to serve the people;
     Najib does not mention the role of the party as the local informers for the Red Army during the nine years of the occupation. Najib tries to say that the correction of past mistakes are possible and necessary to make PDPA able to play a role in the future politics of Afghanistan.
     5-       Najib in his speaches refer several times to the changes in East Europe and as usual tries to follow an outside model , for the changes in Afghanistan.
 *    6- Najib has tried to project him-
 self as a peace-maker. In reality in most of the crimes committed so far against the people of Afghanistan either he has been directly involved or have done with his approval. He is one of those Marxist intellectuals of the party who promoted communist revolution. He served as the head of notorious secret police of the regime for six years. This is why he treats the old cadres of the party with respect and called them comrades who had good intentions to serve the people.
     Najib's admissions reminds one of the clever tactics of some criminals during interrogation by the security forces. They usually admit committing several small crimes to take the attention of the interrogator away from major crimes he wants to conceal.
    The Kabul regime has revoked
                                                                                                                                       die
 Tarakitegime,
    The decree was the main source of discontent against the communist regime because it allowed to the government to interfere in the people's family affairs. '
    Decree #7 regulated marriage | wntmdictel’ The.:. existmg: Ishmicmarriage law.in the countr^
    |Some 250 Afghans rallied in the Indian capital on April 27 to demand the removal of the Kabul regime ieader|HajibulIah; iasia condition of ac<&pt&g' el^<^ x;;in ;di|ir ;;i:war-rayageifee^               Ifp \ :; -
    Tbe meeting was held h mark the communist coup of 1978*
     Soviet secret pol ice exterminated a*                pebble
 to i9^0, a senior KGB official has said in a rare newspaper interview, l^hshed in                      J
   * - * •-: f ||; •            the
 five                            ‘
 the Holy Quran as a present from Saudi Arabia- -•
  ||||be Rabta aKAIarii;- aL&hi (The World Muslim League) has piayed an intermediary role in the Saudi government’s decision to pro-vide the copies Of the Holy Book to Soviet Muslims. ... .
  USSR admits killing of 15,000 Polish prisoners
     The Soviet Union has officially admitted that its secret police massacred 15,000 Polish officers and soldiers during World War II in Katyn Forest, west of the Soviet Union.
     The killing was carried out by the KNVD, the secret police of the Soviet Union in 1940 and predecessor of the KGB.
     The Soviets in the past claimed responsibility for the massacre lay with Nazi Germany.
    • May Day eelebrations an Kabul this year wets not ns glamorous as In the past The regime celebrated May D^^jiriRfing^ indoofl^
 | , SMailyv die anniversary of April 27 communist revolution (coup of 1978^ wU5 not celcbralfid WithThe visual            and: colorful
     After Tanai's coup and the Mujahideen attack on a rally in Herat, Najibftas behaved #ore ciMully*; :ffflbe lith anniversary of the Saur Coup was also marked by ’small indoor meetings.     f •

                                                                    AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
       Who is who in the Mujahideen
       Commander Sufi Mohammad Saeed
    Sufi Mohammad Saeed was bom Mustafa (Kefayatullah) and they blew from Mazar-i-Sharif under the com-41 years ago in Shotol Valley of UPtwo bridges and suspended traffic on mand of Zabihullah Khan and a group I      Jabulseraj district in Parwan  the highway for one week.              of Mujahideen from Shamali under the
  ! province.                                  After 40 days of fighting, the command of Major Enayatullah came
  !      Mohammad Saeed was six months  Mujahideen retreated due to shortages to the Panjshir valley to help them,
  j old when his father, Faiz Mohammad, of ammunition. Mohammad Saeed was There first operation against the redied and when he became two years using a PPSh gun which was heavy and gime forces was earned out in Shaba, i old his mother married and he was tak- its round magazine was loose causing Masood himself led the attack. A sup-! en care of by his aunt. Mohammad him to have a lot of trouble.        ply truck of the enemy was destroyed,
  | Saeed has several step brothers and sis-  He was among the last group who two soldiers were killed, two injured
  j ters. One of his brothers died in fight- retreated. He and his colleagues en- and three soldiers were captured. They | ing against the Soviets.           gaged the advancing enemy forces in captured one Kalashnikov rifle, 5000
  |           Mohammad Saeed went to a  Panjpiran-i-Panjshir and    killed or Afghani and a few blankets,
  j mosque school at the age of five and wounded 25 soldiers.                   After this achievement they came
    learned the basics of Islam. He did not The retreat for Mohammad Saeed to Parandeh Valley and started to meet | attend any formal school but has and his friends was not smooth: Local the people of Bazarak at nights and per-| learned how to read and write.     people scolded them for retreating and suaded them to support them. After a
  | At the age of 15, he went with one leaving them exposed to the communist while, they established their base in | of his cousins to Mazar-i-Sharif where forces. They even disarmed some of his Manjawaor and Parandeh side valleys, he helped him to learn how to drive an friends. He met Commander Masood in They started to plant mines bn the automobile. He started to earn his liv- Dahn-i-Riwat in the upper part of the road. Two of the mines did not explode ing by working as a truck driver in the valley where he was recovering from at the right time but caused panic Ministry of Public Works.            his injuries. Mohammad Saeed referred amongst the enemy soldiers. The ene-
       Later he went to Iran and worked to the time after the retreat as being my evacuated the two sub-districts in as a taxi driver. Mohammad Saeed very difficult days of his struggle. The Panjshir in a hurry and the Mujahideen liked to see many places and this desire local people were not ready to help captured 60 soldiers and v 41 took him to the Soviet Union and them because they feared communist Kalashnikov rifles from Dara valley. Poland as a tourist. During his visit to reprisals. For 12 days they faced food The Communists' control now was lim-the Soviet Union, he wanted to talk to shortages and did not find any food oth- ited to Rukha. the ordinary people in Azarbaijan er than com ears which they fried and Two weeks after their retreat the (USSR), but the police prevented him ate.              .                   communist forces launched a surprise
    from doing so.                       A   fter the Mujahideen’s retreat, a attack against the Mujahideen in
       During his stay in Iran the uprising  group of people from Nooristan Bazarak killing 18 of them       including
    against the Shah had started,            who were led by Maulawi      major Enayatullah.
    Mohammacj Saeed sympathized with   Abdur  Razaq reached Panjshir to help In 1979 the               Soviets invaded
    the followers of Imam Khomeini and Masood and his men. They engaged Afghanistan but the winter passed with-helped them by transporting their the enemy in two places but after loos- out any major engagement.
                    I weapons from one place to another in ing some men they also retreated. The The Soviets launched their first at-] his taxi. Since he was a foreigner he government's control in the valley had tack against Panjshir in March 1980.
  ! was not suspected by the Shah's police, extended up to Khench.             Sufi Saeed and some other Mujahideen
    While he was in Iran he heard news of Commander Masood went to clashed with them in Parandeh side val-an uprising against the Taraki regime. Paryan and called a meeting of elders ley killing a few soldiers. The Soviet The day Imam Khomeini returned from the Paryan, Khawak and Tul side forces were in the valley when Masood I to Iran from Paris he left Iran and came valleys to discuss the situation. sent Sufi Saeed and Lieutenant Agha
    to Kabul.                              The meeting which was convened Gul to Shotol and Jabulseraj to recruit
       In Kabul he and his friends were in the house of Fazel Ahmad in Shar-i- people in those areas. He gave them discussing the possibilityjof taking part Beland village, decided that fighting 350 rounds of ammunition. After two in an anti-regime uprising. In the against the regime should continue, days of their arrival in Shotol, the spring of 1979, he returned to his na- Sufi Saeed recalled an unfortunate inci- Soviet forces left Panjshir concluding a tive village in Shotol.            dent involving himself. He was on his week-long operation.
       In summer of 1979, the          way to the meeting when some local       ommander Saeed established a
    Mujahideen under the leadership of people suspected him of being a regime I Mujahideen base in Shotol and
    Commander Masood forced the gov-   spy and beat him and confiscated his     started to operate in the lower
    emment troops in Panjshir to flee, money, gun and coat.                    psri of the valley called Rah-i-Tang.
    Mohammad Saeed and other villagers' Masood asked the people to give He used his base to participate in nu-first revolutionary action was the de- some of their young people as volun- merous operations which include the struction of part of the road to delay teers to be trained as Mujahideen, following major conflicts: the retreat of the enemy.          Among the first men who volunteered 1- In 1981, when a regime regi-
       Two days later, he met with to be trained were Mohammad Aman, ment which was going from Jabulseraj Commander Masood and joined the Ghafor Khan, Mohammad' Pana, to Glulbahar Textile Mills was attacked Mujahideen who fought the regime Ghulam Mohammad, Gulhaider, Shair by the Mujahideen under the command forces in Gulbahar, Jabulseraj and Dad, Mohammad Mirza, Abdul Aziz of Mohammad Saeed and Ghulam Ali. Salang.                            and Mohammad Saeed himself.             Fighting continued the whole day and
       He went to the Salang Valley with Meanwhile a group of Mujahideen 65 tanks and trucks of the enemy were
 /
AFGHANews Vol6, No 10, May 15,1990, page O
 set on fire. Gulab the deputy commander Sufi Saeed was killed in this operation.
     2-     In the summer of 1980, the Soviets launched their second offensive against Panjshir. In Deh-Kalan of Shotol 50 Soviets were killed. The next day they launched another attack to take away the dead bodies of the soldiers and in hand to hand fighting more Russian soldiers were killed.
     3-     During the fifth offensive of the Soviets against Panjshir in summer of 1982, the Mujahideen under the command of Sufi Saeed who operated in Salang destroyed 70 tanks and trucks of the enemy.
     4-       Commander Saeed and Commander Panah attacked an enemy convoy in Salang prior to the seventh offensive setting on fire about 100 military vehicles.
     5-     In 1987, when the first Soviet supply convoy was leaving Afghanistan, it was attacked by Shotol Mujahideen in Salang where 50 vehicles were destroyed.
     6* In 1988, a DRA garrison in Glulbahar was    captured by his
 Mujahideen.
     On December 27,1988, he was injured when the truck he was driving hit a land mine in Shotol.
     He came to Pakistan for medical treatment. Sufi Saeed has not found the time to marry and form a family.
     Sufi Saeed is famous for his piety. He has full      control over his
 Mujahideen and they behave in a disciplined manner.
    Dear Mohammad Es'haq:
    Please accept my best wishes for Eid. I look forward to reading your comments on this year's fast of Ramazan and on the celebration of Eid.
    In your issue of April 1, Habibur Rahman criticized my reference to Buzkashi during my Congressional testimony. Perhaps you should include another well known Afghan proverb in your much appreciated feature on the subject: "Nim Mullah, Khater-e iman."
    I don not believe that the war in Afghanistan, in which over a million people have been killed, is a game of any kind, including Buzkashi. In the written testimony I prepared for the Congressional hearing I never mentioned Buzkashi. Instead I wrote over fifty pages-mostly single-spaced- in which I tried to explain the very difficult and confusing environment to which Habibur Rahman refers.
    Although the author corrects a statement I made about Buzkashi, he and I were trying to make exactly the same general point The reason I referred to Buzkashi in my oral testimony was that both the government witness (Assistant Secretary of State John Kelly) and one of the Congressmen (Rep. Lagomarsino) described the war in Afghanistan as an American football game. I thought that this was a big mistake, and I wanted to tell them that the
 national game of Afghanistan was not American football but Buzkashi, which has very different and complicated rules.
      What I wa!s trying to say was exactly what Habibur Rahman wrote: "Afghan politics has its own rules which must be understood. . . The foreign observers who watch the game from a distance, with a ready-made model in their mind, find Afghan politics confusing and sometimes frustrating. They often resort to oversimplification and unsuitable analogies.
 . . . Afghans cannot simplify the rules of their political games in order to make them understandable to outsiders. A simplified model will provide no answers in such a complicated situation." I wish I had stated what I meant as clearly as he did.
      Unfortunately, many people in our government are using just such simplified models to analyze events iii Afghanistan. If you would like, I would be honored to present to your readers my own views of the situation.
      Please feel free to publish this letter or parts of it in AFGANews. Thank you again for such an informative anc well-written publication.
      Sincerely yours,
      Barnett R. Rubin
  Gorbachev allows more Muslims to visit Mecca
    Soviet Muslims achieved a major victory when the Soviet Government recently announced the charter of special flights to Saudi Arabia to carry Muslims performing Hajj.
    After the communist revolution of 1917 Muslims and followers of other religion lost the freedom to practice their faiths. The pressures on Muslims were greater than on others, because of the size of the Muslim population in the Soviet Union, their ethnic ties with the neighboring countries and the nature of their religion, which is a complete code of life.
    Muslims in Central Asia and the Caucasus had for many years fought against Russian domination and for the preservation of their religion and culture.
    Despite the constitutional guarantees of freedom of religion in the
 Soviet Union, the Communists gave little freedom to the people to practice their religion.
     Hajj, the annual pilgrimage of able Muslims to the holy city of Mecca in Saudi Arabia, is a test of religious freedom in various countries. People from all over the world come to Mecca and it is known who and how many pilgrims arrive from each land. The Soviet Government used to send a few selected people each year to show that it has given freedom to the Muslims. But in fact the same people went year after year. According to a Saudi official, every year the same familiar faces came to perform Hajj.
     Muslims are obliged to perform Hajj once in their lives if they can afford it.
     Last year only three persons went to Mecca from Azerbaijan, which has a
 Muslim population of about four million. This year 60 people have obtained permission to perform Hajj.
     About 70 million Muslims live in the Soviet Union, mainly in Central Asia and north of Iran and Turkey.
     The Soviets have also imposed restrictions (Mi the number of Holy Qurans and other religious books entering the Soviet Union. Central Asia once was a center of learning for Islamic studies.
     While freedom for Muslims to perform their religious duties is a step forward, still Muslim worship in the Soviet Union is limited to certain rituals. Islam is a complete way of life. A Muslim must say regular prayers, fast during the holy month of Ramazan, perform Hajj, pay capital tax (Zakat) and a ten percent harvest tax.
 __________________________________    J
                                            AFGHANews Vol 6, No 10, May 15,1990, page ©
Shoora engineers complete Paryan Road construction
     The Panjshir Reconstruction Committee has completed building of a road connecting Dasht-o-Rivat to Paryan, in the upper part of the valley.
     Engineer Kamaluddin, the head of the reconstruction committee in Peshawar, said the 28-kilometer-long road has made life easier for the people df Paryan. In the past they went to Dasht-o-Rivat or Andarab to purchase their needs. Now, the local shopkeepers can transport their goods on trucks, which is faster and cheaper. As a result of the road the difference in prices of commodities between Paryan and Dasht-o-Rivat has decreased.
     The Reconstruction Committee has built a bridge on the Khawak river and plans to build a bridge on the Tul river.
     Eng. Kamaluddin said that ordinary tools like picks and shovels have been used to build the road, and this is the reason for the length of time the construction has taken. The only modem machine used in the construction woe small rock drills.
     Engineer Enayatullah supervised the construction work and Mohammad Mir acted as a foreman.
     Eng. Kamal said the Reconstruction Committee plans to connect the Paryan road to Andarab valley, Baghlan Province, through Khdwak Pass; and to Kuran-o- Munjan, Badakhshan Province, through Anjuman Pass.
     The Reconstruction Committee has started building a road from the Pakistan border to Kuran-o-Monjan. The road has passed the famous Dora Pass on the Pakistan border and new construction work will Start when the snowmelts.
     Kamaluddin said one of the problems he is facing is construction of bridges which could be used by vehicles. "We are wodring on designing a model suspension bridge which will be made from material available inside Afghanistan,” he said.
     If the road from the Pakistan border to Panjshir is completed, it could be used to transport humanitarian assistance to the people in the North. It will be the safest and shortest route from Pakistan to Afghanistan.
     The head of Panjshir Reconstruction Committee said his organization has completed construction of a two-kilometer long road in Parandeh valley and work on Dara road, 20 kilometers long, is half completed.
     He said while the construction costs of Paryan and Parandeh roads have been provided partially by the Supervisory Council and partially borrowed, VITA has provided some funds for the construction of. the Dara road.
     Kamaluddin said the Panjshir main road, which is 80 kilometers long, has been repaired, Along this road three bridges have been built, and work on other bridges and culverts will start when funds are available.
     The Panjshir Reconstruction Committee has helped the local people to build seven footbridge^ over the Panjshir River connecting the east side of die valley to the west bank. These bridges were destroyed during the Soviet occupation of the valley.
     The Committee plans to build three suspension bridges, usable by pick-up trucks, on the main Panjshir River.
     Eng. Kamaluddin said a major problem in Panjshir is the rebuilding of houses. As a result of the war the valley is facing shortages of wood for construction purposes. A solution to the problem is the use of pie-fabricated concrete beams and slabs. Use of concrete slate for culverts has already started but the Committee wants to build a pre-cast slab and beam factory in Rukha. Negotiations with some relief organizations in Peshawar to this end have already begun.
     Panjshir           Reconstruction
 Committee has also started work on the construction of three new irrigation canals in three different parts of the valley.
     If these projects are completed, new areas will be irrigated, and more water will be available for the irrigation of the present farms.
     The Construction Committee has build an auto repair workshop to meet the need of the valley. The new building housing the workshop is under construction. The workshop, which will be manned by experienced mechanics, will also repair tractors, bulldozers, rock drills and other available machinery.
     It should be added that 80 percent of the valley was totally destroyed as a result of the repeated Soviet offensives and occupation. Panjshir was a green and well-populated valley before the war. Most of its population are now internal refugees.
     Reconstruction work and a mine-clearing program is necessary to enable the refugees to return.
' / / / / s / / / / / / / << /•
is renamed
Wmmm
     SAZA, a communist faction which supports the Kabul regime, has changed its name to NIDA to disassociate itself from communist policies of die past
     SAZA, die Organization of Toilers of Afghanistan, was renamed NIDA, the Movement for Democracy of Afghanistan. ,
     In a communique broadcast by Kabul Radio, the party claimed that the new name is adopted to reflect the new situation in Afghanistan.
     SAZA, a faction of the Setam-i-Milli (National Depression Party) is headed by Mahbubullah Koshani.
     SAZA became active when the Kabul regime allowed formation of new parties . This party was originally part of the People's Democratic Party.
     SAZA promoted a Soviet-style communist revolution in Afghanistan. The faction has some influence in the north of Afghanistan and has established some garrisons along die border with the Soviet Union. SAZA suffered a major setback in Takhar province when the Mujahideen from Jami'at drove it out of Taloqan in 1978.
     The change of riame is part of a Soviet-sponsored compaign to make different communist factions look more democratic and less communist The ruling party under Najib is-also preparing for such cosmetic changes to decrease popular opposition and make it acceptable to the outside world.
    iKdp us pubtisft-WFQtfS&fezvs!
                                          (PCease send your donations to tfie fottozoing account numBcr:
                                               Account 9{o. 735-37 (HdBiB 'Bank.Ltd.
                                              ‘Iehkcd (Bcda, (Pesharvar (Pakistan