AFGHAN
N E W$
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMl'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 YoLII.No. 15, 1/8/1986.
                            TO MLTHQSE.FHQ BELIEVi IN FREEDOM
 Afghanistan was invaded in 1979. Since then, the Soviets and their puppets have killed more than 500,009 innocent Afghans (U.N report on violation of Human Rights in Afghanistan), destroyed 75* of ail towns and villages , have driven 5 million (out of 16 million pre-war population ) out of Afghanistan and made more than 2 million internal refugees.
 But still most countries have embassies in Kabul and the puppet regime has embassies in these countries. While 123 countries have voted in the U.N General Assembly against the occupation of Afghanistan still the puppet regime is occupying the Afghanistan seat. Afghanistan is an occupied country and the regime is a puppet regime. Still it represents Afghanistan in the non-aligned movement.
                We think it is an injustice which needs correction. We demand that:
 1. All the countries who believe in freedom and oppose Soviet occupation should close their embassies in Kabul and expel the puppet regime s representatives from their own countries .
 2. All sort of trade relatioships with the puppet should be cut immediately.
 3- The Afghan Resistance should be recognized as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan and be entitled to occupy the seat of Afghanistan in O.I.C , non-aligned countries movements and all the U.N organizations.
                                     Sincerely Yours
                                     The Oppressed People of AFGHANISTAN.
     AFGHAN NEWS________gfiLJX_______NQJL5_______UMISM_________PAGE.Z.
                                        STATE SPONSORED TERRORISM
 The Soviet Union is one of the countries which have used terrorism for its political aims.
 It has trained and equipped terrorists directly or indirectly. Soviet terrorist activities in Afghanistan and Pakistan is obvious . Every body knows that the real leaders in Kabul are the Soviets, so they are responsible for every thing which is done by their puppet. In the past terrorists hijacked a Pakistani plane to Kabul and killed an innocent person. The terrorists were given better weapons and other assistance.
 The world reaction was against a puppet regime which has no power not against * the real criminals, the Soviets. Then they started kidnapping some foreigner's from Pakistan and after several months of keeping them, released them.
 The countries concerned thanked the puppet regime (while the Soviets deserved condemnation ). Now they are sending bombs against civilian targets in Pakistan. The main targets are "Pakistani civilians and defenceless refugees.
 On July 13th , a land mine planted by the Soviet agents killed ten and injured 9 Afghan Refugees in Kuram Agency. These types of incidents are repeated every day.
                   We do not know why the world is not quick in condemnation of Soviet policies.
 Is it not a big crime to bomb the villages and towns of Afghanistan and force the population to leave the country and then kill them in their refugee camps? We are surprised by the world lack of attention. Soviets terrorism has no boundary. Soviets are the real criminals behind any terrorist action in this area because they are the real masters in the occupied parts of Afghanistan.
                                      DIVISION IN THE PUPPET RANKS
 Division among the puppets is a chronic disease which is incurable. Several attempts of the Soviets in the past to bring the factions together divided them more.
 The recent step of replacing Babrak by Najib is one of those attempts. Now Najib has started to purge his opponents in the party and government which leads to more division. It is a custom in Communist regimes that they do not criticise the leaders in power. When they are out of power then accusations and purges of their followers start.
 Najib, the new leader of the puppet party has dismissed some people and reinstalled some others and is criticising the way some people in the government and party work. This is not new. When the Communists made the coup they accused Daud of being the last remnant of the royal family, a dictator
 etc.
    AFGHAN NEWS____YQLJLI_____NflLiS___1/8/1986___PAGE.3
 Amin accused Taraki of lawlessness and individual dictatorship. Babrak accused Amin for every bad thing which had happened to Afghanistan. Najib has started to criticise and replace the people close to Babrak but it takes time before Babrak himself is accused of committing crimes against the party and people.
 Since the differences are deep-rooted, it can not be cured by the change of leadership. The change of one puppet by another is the sign of frustration of Moscow leaders and the failure of their policies in Afghanistan.
                                     NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELD
                                          MAMAS-i- SMASH
 3/4/1986. Mujahideen attacked the Langar Khana post and killed 3 puppet* soldiers.
 27/3/86. Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Dawlat Abad District,, destroyed two tanks and a 66-Gaz trucks. Ail the occupants of the tanks and the truck were killed.
 30/6/86 Enemy ambushed Mujahideen in Shadian area, 3 Mujahids were martyred. Eight soldiers and officer of the enemy were killed in the clash.
 2/7/86. Soviets attacked Mujahideen controlled areas in Shadian . Twenty nine soldiers were killed. Two Mujahids were martyred and two others were
 wounded.
                 16/7/86. Soviet bombed Shoolgar District. Mujahideen and people had no
 casualties.
 17//86. A Soviet advisor, a Khad agent and a captain of the puppet army were assassinated by Mujahideen in Hayratan. Hayratan is a town on the Soviet border through which most convoys pass from the Soviet Union.
 10/7/86. Mujahideen attacked three posts in Baghi Raq area of Baikh district. The posts were destroyed and the soldiers stationed there were killed. No figure for the casualties is given.
                                   MABAsasMAMPsorma
 In a series of attacks in the last two months, Mujahideen of Jamiat in Warduj valley have killed 200 enemy soldiers and have captured 134 different types of guns, 200,000 rounds of ammunition and quantities of food stuffs. Twelve Mujahids have been killed and 20 others have been wounded.
 Varduj is a narrow valley extended from the border town of Eshkashim (on the Soviet -Afghan border ) to Baharak sub-district. This valley was liberated in
 1979,
 The upper end of the valley was invaded and closed in December of 1979. This valley which is about 60 Km long is the shortest distance by road to theSoviet border from Faizabad the provincial capital of Badakhshan. In the last few
    AJEGHA1USESS___TQLJL1____ML1S_____UU13M______EAfiEjt
 months Soviet have established new garrisons along this valley and forced Mujahideen out.
 Mujahideen have restarted their activities . The Mujahideen of the area are commanded by Najmuddin who has resisted the Soviets since 1979. This area is mountanous and very cold. The people and Mujahideen need to bring their food
 from outside of the valley.
                         WAMDAX PROVINCE
 16/7/86. Mujahideen attacked the enemy headquarters in Maidan with 107mm. rockets. A car and two buildings were hit. Twenty enemy were killed and some other were wounded. Twenty soldiers joined the Mujahideen. ,
                         LOGAM PROVINCE 5/7/86. Soviets bombed Pad Khab and Lai Khaii villages of Logar, Twenty houses were destroyed and one woman was martyred . One of the enemy Jets was shot down by Mujahideen The enemy has used time-bombs for the first in the area.
                            KABUL PROVINCE
 16/7/86. Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a convoy near Kalakan sub-district, along the Salang highway. Four tanks, 9 oil-tankers and 10 trucks were
 destroyed . The road was closed for 5 hours.
 In retaliation the enemy bombed the village of Sanglakh in Estaiif, 8 womenand children wrere killed and A others were wounded
                            PMTIA PROVINCE Chamii post dominates the junction of two rich and fertile valleys in Northern Paktia. Ail the surrounding villages have been heavily bombed by the Soviets, and the local population were forced to flee to neighbouring Pakistan with what little they could carry . The post is garrisoned by about 300 Afghan conscripts, press-ganged from various parts of the country, it is commanded by Soviet and Afghan army officers. Immediately around the post is a minefield , which acts more as a deuerent to desertion than as a defensive measure.
 At 6.00p.m on the 25th of June a group of 14 Mujahideen, under the command of Miralam of the Jamiat Islami party, attacked the post with 2 M75 recoiless rifles and an 82/ra.m mortar. In all 26 rounds were fired at the post and 2 direct hits were scored; the post retaliated with a heavy mortar barrage and Soviet artillary was called down on our position.
 At 8:00 p.m, as the light faded, the attack ceased with no casualties to the Mujahideen. It was learnt from reliable sources, that 22 Afghan army dead evacuated by helicopter the following day. In ail it was a well planned and well executed operation. Miralam and his group of Mujahideen showed great courage and coolness under fire from an enemy with far more firepower at their command.
 A lot of journalists covering Afghanistan , these days ask the question "Are not you worried about the Soviets and their puppet regime propaganda about
 elections, broadening the base of the government etc ?
 The answer is we are not worried about the people of Afghanistan , but we are worried about the outside world who may be misled by our enemy propaganda..
 The reason for this is:
 The outside world see the propaganda face of the communist regimes. Because of lack of contact the people rely on the information provided by these* governments. What is provided by them is highly censored and full of propaganda since it is repeated every day, after some times people start to believe ii. The situation becomes more dangerous when the Communists usd sophisticated ways of telling lies the way Gorbachev does . This is why we are worried about the outside world,
 Communists now have left their rhetoric of the Leninist-Staiinist times .Now they do not speak very much about class struggle, proletarian dictatorship, historical determinism etc.
 Now they come with an army and claim that they have been invited. They invade a country and make use of the articles of the U.Nliharter . They kill half a million people and keep the rest of the world in the dark by killing and frightening journalisis.They drive 5 million people out of a country and call them nomads or decieved elements.
 Now they have started to talk, in a more sophisticated way. While they are escalating the war , bringing more troops and new weapons, talk about peace and intention to withdraw They change one puppet for another and call it a big change They talk about election, inclusion of some non-Communist elements in the government, convening tribal jirgas (Assemblies of the elders of the tribes) call it the consolidation of the puppet regime in the country, while all these terms are meaningless in an occupied country, it can be decieving to some who believe in any kind of election and representation of the people in the government.
 There is no question of elections in war-torn and partially occupied Afghanistan. But the Soviet believe in the power of propaganda and the repetition of big lies.
 When we say wTe are not worried about the situation inside our country we believe in it, In Afghanistan, the people see the facts with their own eyes. They see the atrocities and hear the propaganda on the enemy radio and T.V. They are in a very good position to compare , On the same day when Radio Moscow and its baby, Radio Kabul, elaborate on the achievements of revolutionary Afghanistan and give hope for a progressive and prosperous future, the Soviet planes bomb all the valiiges. of Eshkamish and Khost and all the mosques and Eid gathering places and kill more than 5000 men, women and children and
    WHAN NEWS______VOL, n NO. n l/S/1986 PAGE 6
injure more than that. Every body in Afghanistan has lost at least one family member, has given up his property , has been jailed or humiliated . No propaganda can change their mind,
The outside world should be more careful. They should be on guard against so-calied Democratic but pro-Soviet countries. They should be on guard against some papers who have sold themselves to the Soviets and project their views and finally should be alert against the Soviet disinformation and propaganda war.
                          MU1APPED1 THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
                                                                                                        I
The Council of the Alliance met and decided that Prof.Sebghatullah Mujaddedi will be the new spokesman of the Alliance from July 22nd. Prof.Rabbani the outgoing spokesman announced the decision of the Alliance and wished prof.-Mujaddedi every success.
                                        FRENCH AID FOR INSIPE
French government has decided to give FF 2,000,000 for humanitarian purposes for the war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan.
We appreciate the decision because millions of Afghan people are suffering as the result of food shortage and lack of medical care inside the country.
                                         HERAT CONTINUES TO FIGHT
Herat is the western province of Afghanistan and a stronghold of the resistance against the invaders. The Mujahideen of Herat under the command of Ismaeil Khan have organized themselves in a good military-civilian network which is able to carry on the war of liberation effectively. Herat is a flat area and has great logistic problems from outside the country. Little humanitarian aid has reached the area because volunteer organizations have difficulties going there.
A big part of Herat has been destroyed and a lot of its people have become refugees in Iran. Despite ail the problems, Mujahideen have been effectively controlling most of Herat and even most parts of the town in day light. Some years ago the enemy made use of some elements and turned them into militias. Last year the Mujahideen were able to kill the head of the militia forces and re-iiberate most of the East part of Herat.
Last year the enemy attacked the West part of Herat city (the part under Mujahideen control) and besieged it for 27 days. At the end they formed 6G security posts and planted mines to form what they called "the defensive line".
Mujahideen were cut off from the city. This meant less intelligence and supplies from the city for the Mujahideen.
   AEGMOSS5__YQLJLI_NO. 15 1/8/1986 PAG EZ
 On June 14th, The enemy attacked the Mujahideen bases close to the Afghan-Iran border. Fighting continued for three days. The enemy failed to achieve the aim of destroying Mujahideen bases.
 On June 13th, Commander ismaeii formed a war council and the council decided about coordinated attack- i on the newly-built posts around the city of Herat. It should be mentioned that Mujahideen had cleaned most of the mine fields the enemy had created to stop Mujahideen from entering the city. Because of lack of proper equipment (and lack of experiences) Mujahideen did the job with a high price of 53 wounded and amputated persons.
 When the coordinated attacks started all the 60 posts were captured.* Mujahideen kilted 170 of the militiamen and the puppet soldiers,captured 40 soldiers and officers and destroyed 8 tanks and captured one . They also captured 180 guns and a big amount of ammuniton and other stuff.
 Mujahideen lost 16 people and 60 civilian were killed as the result of aerial and artillary bombardment, A big 'section erf the city came under the control of the Mujahideen.
 On June 19th, The Soviets launched their counter-offensive with the help of 400 AFVs. They also pounded the positions of Mujahideen and the surrounding
 villages with their air forces and long-range rockets.
 The sad story about any offensive is the loss of very valuable commanders and Mujahideen who are martyred . In a separate incident the Jeep of Commander Abdullah, the person who killed the head of militiaman in Herat, hit a land mine. He and some of his companions were killed. The loss of 15 junior Herati Commanders in the last few months is a saddening event for the resistance and the cause of freedom. But to the Jehad of our people this is not new. In 1979, the city of Herat lost 20,000 of its people at the- hand of Communist but continued to resist.Sovieis publicised the death of the commanders and claimed that Herat had fallen in their hands (they never had admitted the control of the Mujahideen on the city). Due to problems of communication. Mujahideen were not able to deny the report. Now we have got a report from Herat that shows ali the claims of the Soviets and their puppet were false. The short visit of the puppet Najib was a propaganda compaign to make the world accept their claims. The report says that on July 19th , Mujahideen engaged the enemy in the West part of the city and destroyed 8 tanks. Mujahideen have control over part of the city. In a separate operation Mujahideen attacked the the puppet post outside the city, killed ten soldiers and captured 20 other . Thirty guns were also captured. The struggle on control of the city will continue between the two sides Soviets with their vast resources and strong fire power will try to drive Mujahideen out but Mujahideen with their commitment and strong faith will continue to resist the invaders.
   AFGHAN mm_____YQXuJI___NO. 15  1/8/1986__RAGHA
                          IHERJGHI-Ifi mF-PgTERMlNATIQN
 After the meeting of the Prime Minister of Pakistan with the President of the U.S.A, a spokesman of the U.S administration said " there was complete agreement on the objectives to secure complete withdrawal of Soviet forces and the right for self-determination for the people of Afghanistan”. Pakistan Times July 20, 1986.
 While we trust the good intentions of our Pakistani brothers we have been worried about the result of the ongoing talks in Geneva because the item of right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination has been dropped from the agenda.                                                            ^
 it is big news for us that the two sides, Pakistani and the American leaders once more made it clear that the withdrawal and the right for self-determination are the two most important elements.
 We believe the right for self-determinnation is the central point. If the Soviets accept that then peace can come, if they refuse to accept that right for the people of Afghanistan peace can not come.
 We know that the immediate objective of the Soviets in Afghanistan was to change the right of self-determination of the nation to the right of ‘Soviet determination'.
                   Any settlement which does not include the right for self-determination serves
 the objectives of the Soviets.
                                            AN IRRESPONSIBLE ACT
 When the delegation of the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan was visiting the U S.A, a group of Afghans who have been living there for a long time and some American citizens raised the question of formation of a government in exile. They had met together several times and had written a few pages, what they called ” the Constitution of the Afghan government in exile . Some of them approached the leaders to discuss their ideas. They were told that any effort which does not have connection with the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan will not go any where because the Mujahideen do not support it. Such action instead of bringing good results can create a lot of doubt about the cause, and may lead to the confusion of the supporters of Afghanistan.
 It was made clear to them that the Alliance appreciates any suggestion in this respect and it would be much better to discuss the matter with the Alliance to get its approval before taking any steps It seemed that they were not listening but following what they had started .
 Afghan News believes that a bunch of old bureacrats living the comfortable life of America, some of whom have accepted American citizenship and with no rea
     AffifiLULflffiEL VOL. II NO. 15                1/8/1986______£M£_£
 understanding of the present situation in Afghanistan can not decide on such important issue. They live just on the ideas and their efforts are doomed to failure . Mo doubt there are individuals among them who may have good intentions but some important figures among them do not have acceptable
 credentials for the job.
 More than that these people should know that writting a few pages about a government does not form a government. Any effort which does not have the support of Mujahideen is not worth thinking about.
 Definitely these efforts which do not have any connection with the Mujahideen will benefit the Soviets. It is like the theory of returning Zahir Shah which wa$ based on similiar assumptions. It was giving false hopes for some people who did not know about the siiaution .
 All Afghans, the friends of Afghanistan and concerned people in governments should know that the theory of forming .a government in exile raised by some old Afghan bureacrats living in America has nothing to do with the Alliance, We consider this type of isolated effort harmful to the cause and only serves the
 Soviets,
                                              FUNNY DRAMAS
 Radio Kabul, the mouth-piece of KGB disinformation, announced a strange but
 funny thing,
 In a so-called Revolutionary Court death sentences were passed on Commander Masood and Commander Panah. The death sentences were passed in their absence on charge of killing people and damaging property.
 It is very funny that such a meaningless drama is projected by some papers like Muslim in Islamabad and in a commentary by the BBC,
 Massood is being accused of killing 480 people . No doubt he is the commander of thousands of Mujahideen and it is too little to say he has been the killer of only 480. In every invasion thousands of Soviets and their puppets get killed or injured. There is a war in Afghanistan. The two sides use guns. Commander Masood and other Mujahideen kill Soviets who have invaded their country and their puppets who are being used by them.
 We can not recieve our enemies with bunches of flowers, If killing a man is permitted by any law the Soviets and their puppets deserve to be killed because of the crimes they have committed,
 The same notorious mouth-piece of the enemy, Radio Kabul, had announced in 1984 that Ahmad Shah Masood had been killed but still he is alive and killing Soviets and their puppets.
    AFGHANJ&gS________YflLJLi______MQJJ5______1/8/1 SL&fe..-PA.CJELM
 After that big tie they kept quite for almost two years and now they have opened their dirty mouth again .
 All this is done to decieve world opinion and show that they are putting their enemies on trial. Telling big lies and repeating them is the way of life of Communists. But the big lies of the Soviets do not now live long.
                                   MHISIIR-Sliu A STRONGHOLD
 On July 18, the Muslim, a daily paper published in Islamabad , wrote about the puppet regime's funny drama of trying Commander Masood and Commander Panah in absence. It added: "Commander Ahmad Shah Masood now stationed in, Iakhar lost the battle for control of the Panjshir last year".
 Every body who reads the Muslim understands that it gives a lot of weight to Soviet propaganda . But what is said after quoting the puppet regime is totally wrong and baseless.
 Panjshir is still a stronghold of Mujahideen, Last year the Mujahideen won a big victory by capturing a 500 men garrison of the puppets with very little casualties. NowAhere are more than 10,000 Soviet -puppet troops bogged down in 5 garrisons who do not control more than 15 families (the total population of Panjshir is 80 to 100 thousand).
 We do not know about any battle which Masood has lost and the Muslim is talking about. The point that Masood is stationed in Takhar is also wrong and based on lack of information. Masood started his struggle in 1979 with 12 men, now he commands thousands of people in a big region which includes 5 provinces . In this type of war a commander like Masood can not have a permanent presence in one place, He moves around to avoid enemy attempts against his life and to organize his Mujahideen.
 It is true that he has been lately in Takhar, but he is not permanently based there. He went there to convene the big meetings of the commanders to coordinate their activities, Masood is stronger than before and Panjshir is still a stronghold of Afghan Mujahideen.
                                        CHANGE IS NECESSARY
 Emergency humanitarian aid for the war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan is necessary. Without such an aid a big number of people die or leave the country. There are funds but delivered to some Volunteer organization who only give it where they can go. This is an irresponsible way. When we say emergency, the people can not wait for the arrival of the person from such an organization.
 For example the food situation in. the West, North -West and some other parts of Afghanistan is very critical. Any time Mujahideen approached such organizations, they did not help because their representatives can not go.
   ABfflAEJMTS VOL.JI NO. 15      1ZS/1986   PAGE 11
 Mujahideen in these areas are more concerned about the well-being of their people than any body from outside . Mujahideen in these ares are better organized , so they can distribute the aid and provide necessary papers for accounting.
 We hope the condition of the presence of a foriegner in any kind of humanitarian mission should be changed. It would be a big immoral gesture if emergency aid is stopped because some person can not go to the area. Some organizations have softened their rules but others are withholding funds because of this unreasonable condition.
                                      1MLMLCAJUL THEM MUJABlimi
 Cordovez is a mediator in the proximity talks in Geneva between the puppet regime and the government of Pakistan . So far he seems to give more weight to the Soviet invaders arguments than the argument of a nation who is struggling
 for its survival.
 He has close contacts with the puppet regime's representatives in New York. In ihe last few months when some one tried to talk the puppet regime's envoy in the U N he was successful because Cordovez arranged it.
 Cordovez told the man, when you meet Mr. Zarif. the Democratic Republic Representative, do not call their opponents Mujahideen Call them counterrevolutionaries, otherwise Mr. Zarif becomes angry".
 This showrs the attitude of a person that U.N has choosen to seek a solution to the problem of Afghanistan. How can the Afghan nation trust such a person who has not tried to understand them and even call them counter-revolutionaries to please the puppets.
 Cordovez must apologize from a nation which has given 500,000 (U.N report on human violation) martyrs to save its freedom. Counter-revolutionaries are those who invade , kill, burn, massacre and steal even if they are prominent members of U.N . Counter-revolutionaries are those who have come to power by the Red Army and need several years of protection from the people of Afghanistan.
 I hope Mr. Cordovez starts to correct his thinking about our people and our cause . He has been a witness of 123 votes in our favor and no counterrevolutionary lias been so much popular so far in the world.
 AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264. Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II, No. 16, 15/8/1986.
                                                                                  «
   A tragedy has been played in Afghanistan since eight years. Millions of Afghans have lost their property. Afghanistan is . divided between the countryside, controlled by Mujahideen and the cities controlled by occupation forces. 80% of the countryside has been destroyed by continous offensives and protracted aerial bombardments. Many farmers have left the country and become refugees. Farm production has declined. Animals have been killed by the war. Trees cut down by the Soviets have withered unwanied.when left unattended. Ail sorts of economic activities have come to an end.
   In such circumstances the need to support civilians, mainly old men , women and children is becoming necessary. If they are not helped , they will leave the country and join million others in the neighbouring countries. This is what the Soviets want and we are trying not to allow.. The best way is to help them inside. Give them food, clothes and medicine.
                                              *
   There are some private relief organizations who have helped the people inside but their means are very limited and the problems have now become so large.
   Last year there was extensive talk of millions of Dollars of aid for the war-affected Afghans was on the radios and in the papers. Aithogh now 8 months of the current year has passed no improvement has been seen . The difficulties have increased and the Soviets are still following their economic war and migratory genocide.
   Can we feed starving children . women and old men with words? People are in desperate need of assistance and the commanders are fighting on two fronts: against the Soviets and against the hunger which is threatening the survival of their people.
  AFGHAN-NEWS...JjQLJl_____$8206____WMML^ PACE 2
 We hope that all those who have a heart to feel and an ear to hear will do something urgently .The situation requires quick action and real emergency relief work.
                             STMINJ^m^AIlON FHOM.MRWAX
 On Monday 27th of July a students delegation from Norway met with officials from jamiat Isiami Afghanistan to get first hand information about the situation in Afghanistan. The delegation was the representative of 170,000 high school and vocational school students who launched a campaign of one day work each year. The money earned through this t compaign goes to an educational project in a third world country. In 1985 they collected 2.01 million dollars.
 This year it has been decided that the fund will be spent in support of educational programs in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and the young Afghan Refugees in Pakistan. This campaign of one day work’ is not just collecting funds but a way of getting more information about the specific country and informing those students involvledl
 Afghan News'beheves that this type of work is very useful. We congratulate the Norwegian students for their humanitarian gesture and for choosing Afghanistan for the current year s campaign. This typeof workcan be a good example for the students in the rest of the world. It should be added that the cause of Afghanistan has grass-roots support in Norway.
MTOMIM MmiHM
                                         PAKTIA PROVINCE
 18/7/1986. A report from Urgoon district says that the Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Razme Hola area. The fighting continued for 12 hours. At least 15 soldiers and 4 military officers were killed. Two Mujahideen were martyred and 6 others wounded.
 27/7/1986: In a series of incidents between Mujahideen and Soviet-DRA forces . Mujahideen captured 6 enemy posts in Jaji. Eleven militias were killed. One heavy machinegun, four Ak-47s, 100 anti-personnel mines and a large quantity of ammunition were captured . Five Mujahideen were wounded.
                                       HERAT PROVINCE
 23/7/1986; Mujahideen from jamiat in Pashtoon Zarghoon district launched attacks on the enemy posts in Mehrabad, Boryabaf and Pushtabar areas and captured ail of them. Three hundred militia surrendered to the Mujahideen with their weapons.Five militiamen were killed and two Mujahids were martyred during the operation.
   AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II NO. 16________________________15/.8/l$Lft.6_____PAGE 3
 17/7/1986; Mujahideen of Soofi Rasool and Anwar Khan attacked Bagram Airbase wiih 122mm rockets. According to reliable sources from Bagram , 20
 aircraft, and one ammunition dump were destroyed .
 15/7/1986: Mujahideen of j.i.A attacked the e me my headquarters in Mirbachakoot district. The attack lasted for three hours.Many Russian-DRA troops were killed or wounded. Two DRA officers were captured. One of them was an intelligence officer. They are under interrogation.
 18/7/1986: The Mujahideen from Jamiat in Shakardara launched an attack on the Russian headquarters in Khairkhana of Kabul by 122mm rockets . • Some Soviet soldiers were killed or wounded and four trucks were destroyed.
                                MMANMKmmNCE
 25/7/86: Mujahideen of J.I.A attacked puppet-troop posts in Hesarak. The district headquarter was hit and many puppets were killed or wounded.
 21/7/86: Mujahideen of j.i.A attacked Chaknawor posts. Four soldiers were captured . four killed and 13 others wounded.
 29/7/86: According to a report written by the commander of Jamiat in Samangan province, the enemy in the past 20 days launched several attacks against the strongholds of Harakat Enqilab Islami . Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the enemy . In different clashes the Communists lost 3 tanks. 5 trucks and more than 100 enemy were killed or wounded. The enemy heavily bombed the area with long range artillary and airforce. Around the Aibak city (the provincial capital of Samangan) most of the houses have been destroyed . During the operations 13 militiamen joined the Mujahideen along with their weapons.
                                  LOGMMQYMCE
 30/7/1986: Some KHAD agents with the help of militiamen entered Sarsang area of kaiangar district aiming at searching the civilian houses there. Mujahideen in the area led by iMuilah Mohammad Nawab attacked the KHAD and militia forces killing 25 militiamen and capturing 8 KHAD agents. The Mujahideen also seized 2 rocket launchers and 8 AK-47$ and wounded the local director of KHAD in the operation. Two Mujahideen were martyred and three others wounded.
 16/7/1986: The Mujahideen attacked the residences of government militia in Puli Alam located one kilometer from the city and were able to capture 18 men of whom two were wounded, Two Mujahideen were also wounded.
  AFGHAN NEWS VQL. II NO. 16_________15/.8/13M___PAGE 4
 16/7/1986: The Mujahideen attacked the residences of government militia in Puli Alam located one kilometer from the city and were able to capture 18 men of whom two were wounded. Two Mujahideen were also wounded.
 19/7/1986: Mujahideen of J.I.A attacked Marwara post. Seven soldiers were killed and four others wounded,
 25/7/1986: Mujahideen in Tangi-Babur ambushed enemy forces, destroyed one tank and killed four soldiers.
 28/7/1986: The enemy launched a ground and air offensive on Badil valley, of kunar The attack w’as repulsed by the Mujahideen . Mujahideen lost 5 men but enemy casualties have not been reported yet.
 19/7/1986: According to a report from Ghazni the enemy planes attacked Yahya khail Bazar. Due to this bombardment 14 persons were martyred and 8 persons injured. Three buses and six tractors were burnt.Mujahideen
 transportation routes pass hrough this area.
                                        PKEMAKPROymCE
 23/6/1986: Mujahideen of J.I.A around Charikar. commanded by Haji Enayatuliah attacked jangai Bagh enemy post, Four Communists were captured with Ak-47s as well as some ammunition and hand grenades.
 15/7/1986'The Mujahideen launched an attack on Jabulsaraj-Perwan highway, as a result of which two trucks were destroyed and two puppet officers and 8 soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen captured 5 AK-47 from the enemy. The enemy pressure on this area in the form of bombardments has intensified.
                                              EIDUL-AZHA
 For Muslims all over the world this is a great occasion . For those who are able to go to the Holy Land (.Mecca in Saudi Arabia! it is the fulfilment of a dream.
 On this day millions of Muslims from all over the world wearing special clothes, perform Haj and feel close together. Haj is an obligation on every muslim (men 8c women) to be performed once in a life time.
 In the past thousands of Afghans performed Haj along with the rest of the Musi ms of the world. Now in occupied Afghanistan very few’ poepie can perform Haj. A few w’ho go, use the occasion as a door to escape the terror of the occupation army and their puppets.
  AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II___NSLJi___Wmite______PAGO
 From amongst the regugees few can afford the expense. This year a total of 210 out of 3 million people were be able to perform Haj. It is;a very small number.
 This is an example of how the invasion has hada serious detrimental effect on the hves of Afghans, Few people are able to perform a religious obligation. Before the war 12,000 people performed Haj each year.
 On behalf of the Mujahideen and MuhajireenlRefugees) of Afghanistan, Jam! at Islami Afhgnaisntan,congratulates all Muslim-brothers and sisters all over the world on the occasion of RfDUL -U7J1A. We ask our Muslim brothers and sisters to pray for the liberation of Afghanistan from the occuption of Godless Communists.
 May you all have a happy FID.
 AN QPKN LHTTEK TO THE GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE OF ZIMBABWE
 First of all please accept the best regards of the Mujahideen, of Afghanistan •who are lighting to free their country from the occupation of Soviet aggressors.
 You may know that the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979 and since then a bloody war has continued . As a result of this war 500,000 people have been killed (U.N Human Right Commission Report) five million people became refugees in the neighbouring countries of Iran and Pakistan , a further two millions have become refugees inside their own country and 75% of all villages and towns have been destroyed.
 The Soviet pretext that they have come to defend the government of Afghanistan against foriegn intervention has been rejected by the whole worid.The Soviets came and killed the head of the government and Installed a regime whose head they brought from the Soviet Union. More than 95% of the people of Afghanistan supported the liberation war and continue to support it now.
  The Afghan problem has drawn the attention of the world community. Seven successive times the U.N general assembly has voted .with a large majority for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, Non-aligned countries and the 0.1 ,C have passed simiiiar resolutions . but the Soviets have not listen to the appeal of the world and continue to persue their aims through military means.
  AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II NO. 16         15/S/1986___PAGE fr
 Beside military offensives the Soviets have become active in the political field. They are trying to decieve world opinion by talking about peace . Unfortunately .inside the non-aligned movement there are countries who have not. been courageous enough to condemn the invasion of a non-aligned country by a super power. Unfortunately Cuba and India . both friends of the Soviets, became the chairman of the non-aligned countries one after the other. Although in the meeting of non-aligned countries resolutions which asked lor the withdrawal of foriegn forces from Afghanistan were passed, because of the influence of these two countries the problem of Afghanistan was not given the importance it deserved.
 We hope for a change when. Zimbabwe takes the position of India in, Sepetember.
 The puppet regime has recently announced that Zimbabwe will soon open diplomatic ties with them . Although it is difficult to believe‘this regime, which is so full of lies, if there is any truth in what they claim it would be sad news for the cause of freedom.
 We wonder how Zimbabwe can establish ties with a regime which is protected by more than 150,000 foriegn soldiers. How a lawful elected government which has fought for its own freedom can take a step against, the wishes of millions of Afghans who suffer but continue to fight for their
 freedom.
 The present regime in kabui does not have any legal status and can not represent anybody except the wishes of the Soviets. The problem of Afghanistan is not an internal struggle between progressive forces and reactionaries. It is a genuine liberation war against an aggressor.
  We hope the government of Zimbabwe will not only continue to oppose foriegn intervention in Afghanistan but also give this issue its due position in ail the forums of the non-aligned movement. True non-alignment is the opposition of injustice whichever side it may comes from ,
 With best regards
 Yours Sincerely
 The Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
                                      A LETTER FROM A COMMANDER
 Recently Afghan News recieved a letter from Commander Masood in which he explained the late offensive in Baghlan. Ounduz and Takhar provinces.
 According to the letter, Mujahideen m the area.e specially in the mountainous region have undergone organizational changes. Mujahideen in Andarab, Nahrin, Eshkamish, Khost, Ferkhar, The Center of Takhar and Ounduz have started to form Shoora icounsels) to consult among themselves.
  AFGRAN NE-WS___VOi, II___MQ.,,16. .. 15/8/1986_PAGE 7
 Training of local groups and central forces have made good progress. In each area the commanders and administration, are ehoosen by the local Mujahideen,
 The level of fighting has gone up and factional differences have beem reduced. The Mujahideen and people are feeling more confident about their victory over the enemy. The moral of the Mujahideen and people is high.
 These developments made the Soviets angry and forced them to take military action against the area.
                                                                                                             «
 From the first day of Ramazan Eid. 9th June, the enemy air force started to bomb the base areas especially the Khailab valley for ten successive days Bombing started at dawn <at.vf>0 in the morning ) and continued till dusk! 8:oo in the evening!. The enemy planes carried from SO to 100 missions every day. Such intensive bombardments were unprecendented in the area.
 On thel2th June 1986,The7th, 18th and 20th. divisions of the puppets and 20th division of the Soviets reached Kunduz. In addition to the above forces, the units from the logistic authority of the puppet army and the police operative units of Baghlan province patncipated in the operations.
 The enemy wanted to attack the khailab valley and make it possible for supply convoys to go to Takhar and Badakhshan.
 On 12/6/1986.the enemy attacked khanabad On 15/6/1986. The enemy forces reached Eshkamish . On 17/6/3 986, at 6 am hundreds of Helicopters landed more than 3000 Soviet commandos in the Khailab valley (where the Mujahideen strongholds are located!
 Our Mujahid brothers started to fight the enemy , One Helicopter was hit by an RP6-7, another was hit by a Dschk and the third by an RPG-7. With the loss of the Helicopters the enemy could not land more troops. The troops which were advancing from Eshkamish towards the valley were stopped.
 In the first dash, the general operational Commander of the Soviet forces was killed. Maps and other documents were captured from his body. After heavy bombardments the enemy wanted to land troops m the afternoon of the same day but failed, A fourth Helicopter was shot down by Ak-e7 fire. Thank Allah, with a limited number of Mujahideen the enemy was defeated in the first day.
 In four days of fighting, during which Mujahideen clashed nine times with the enemy commandos, more than 200 enemy commandos were killed The enemy also attacked the strongholds of Itehad 1 Prof.Sayvaf i, the stronghold of Qazi Islamuddm and other Mujahideen groups. Thanks Allah every where they faced resistance from Mujahideen .The Soviets had a minor victory in capturing a base of Ittehad. The reason for that was due loiack of experience in such a massive offensive.
   AEGKAH NEWS YQL.1I______________8£Llfi_____M/1M .. JPAGJB-8
 Our casualties numbered 5 Mujahideen. One hundred civilians from Khailab, Eshkamish and Khost were martyred and some others were wounded.
 The enemy defeat, despite, the deployment of a large force was without precedent in this area in 7 years of war. It wras achieved wifh the help of
 Almighty Allah.
 Now the enemy forces have taken positions in Kunduz, Takhar and Paizabad and are protecting the road with hundreds of tanks. They are busy resupplying their garrisons.
 In Khanabad Mujahideen were hesitant to engage the enemy in the flat areas. They were afraid that if they did this in the agricuitral areas, the enemy would burn the harvests. The enemy exploited this weaknes .they. burnt the harvests, destroyed the houses and established many posts around the city.
 The enemy has delibrately destroyed, the irrigation systems to prevent peopie from sowing rice. The situation in Parkhar. Wursaj and Kalafgan is simiiiar. We can say in the three provinces about 500 civilians were martyred and the same number were injured. Many people have become refugees (inside the country ) and are facing shortages of food, medicine etc.
 The enemy has a plan to repeat simiiiar types of massive attacks in the future.
                                             HARMFUL MMXfjS
 The visit of the four Mujahideen leaders to the U.S.A made the other two leaders angry and this was made public in press conferences held on different occasions.
 There are journalists who raise the questions and Mujahideen leaders answer them. Now7 that the position of every body is clear no more debate is justified . The ideals of the Alliance and the need for cooperation are so great that university-type political debates are a waste of time and energy.
 The respectable leaders of the Mujahideen should bear in mind that there are many a lot of people in the world who give lip service in support of the Afghans and when the time comes to make real decisions, hide themselves behind such pretexts as disunity of the Mujahideen which leads them to question who they should support.
 The latest public debates are proving harmful because one more pretext is given to those who do not give real help. Let us not do anything which pleases the Soviets and saddens our people. Let us think about coordination in military and political fields Let us think about those who are fighting with empty stomachs and bare feet.
   AFQBAN NEWJS_______YQL...U___SSL16_________LU&Z19M_________EACH
 There are thousands of campaigns to be won and hundreds of places to show who is more revolutionary . There is no need for revolutionary talks when there is ground for revolutionary action. There arc 150,000 Soviet soidiers, thousands of tanks and hundreds of Helicopters in Afghanistan. There is a-chance for every body , big or small to show to the world and the people of Afghanistan who he is and what he does.
 May Allah lead us all to the right path.
 During his visit of Valadivostok in the far east, Gorbachev announced that 6 , regiments of the Red Army wilt leave Afghanistan before the end of the current year. He announced this on the eve of the Geneva seventh round of proximity talks. Some circles welcomed the move and others called it too small.
 The spokesman of the Mujahideen Alliance, Prof. Mujededi called it a propaganda step with no real intention to withdraw.
 If we look -at the seven years of war in Afghanistan,the Soviets have increased their troops considerably,in the past they had announced that they would take some troops out of Afghanistan but never mentioned replacing them with new troops. At the beginning of the invasion the Soviets Had brought very heavy tanks which could not be used in Afghanistan. They replaced them with lighter tanks and called it withdrawal of their troops.
 According to a report by Mujahideen of Badakhshan the Soviets have brought several thousand fresh troops to Badakhshan. TheSoviet Army also rotates ns units regularly bringing in new ones to replace the old.
 If there is any truth in withdrawing some of the units it could be a rotational process. The Withdrawing of two AA regiments is hardly a sign of improvement because no air force is threatening the Soviets and their
 puppets.
 The reality of the situation is not that the Soviets are able to decrease the number of their troops but that they need more troops to achieve their aim, the military solution ,
 The announcement also intended to show that the puppet regime is stronger than before . But demanding four years for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops in the proximity talks reveals its actual weakness.
 From all the above reasons it seems that the Soviet leader s announcement of a reduction of troops is not an honest gesture and does not show any change in policy, it is propaganda to fool the world and decrease pressure from the Soviets who are busy killing the people of Afghanistan and destroying its culture and enconomy.The Soviets seem determined to win the war by military means so the announcement of the reduction of forces is a ploy.
  AFGBAM..MHE5____tflLJI______KQ.16_____15/&H9M______PAGE 10
                              -.AMERICAN WHEAT FOR THE &QY1EI&
                                                   %
 The American government has decided to sell great quantities of wheat at subsidized prices to the Soviet Union. The American government calls the
 deal aid to the American farmers.
 The Soviets are using some of the wheat they buy from America to feed their soldiers m Afghanistan and to provide the puppet regime . As with every thing else, food is a political tool in the hands of the Soviets . The American wheat given to the puppet regime by the Soviets will be used to buy off the people whose harvests have been destroyed by their forces.
                                                                                                     I
 President Carter had put an embargo on American wheat sale to the Soviets when the Red Army invaded Afghanistan in 1979 Reagan has lifted the embargo and the Soviets did not pay the price they deserved because oh their invasion. Offering wheat at subsidised prices is a new bonus for the Soviets who are still busy killing Afghans.
                                    JAM I AT CONDEMNS APARTHEID
 Allah created all men and women from the same mother and father so they are equal Men and women should be judged by their deeds, not the colour
 of their skin.
                    Apartheid is the remains of colonialism and is an immoral and inhuman
 system.
We are sympathetic to the millions of black people who suffer from this cruel system. We support the struggle of the majority for equality of races. We do this because Islam has rejected the supermacv of one race over
j___