 Vol 7, No 9
 May 1,1991
 Gulf war shapes US aid policy o Mujahideen
    Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, has said that US aid will not be given aid to those Mujahideen parties which did not sup-X)rt American policy in the Persian Gulf.
    Talking to 'Mujahid Wolas’, a paper published by an Afghan in Norway, he said Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have taken similar stands on the issue.
    He said the US government helped all Mujahideen groups but when their help was needed some of them betrayed Washington.
    He said, however, the majority of Afghans supported freedom for Kuwait, and only "Dchwani parties" opposed the US policy.
    Tomsen said his government has informed Pakistan about its stand and believed that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait might have done the same.
    From the seven parties based in Peshawar, four of them sent a total of 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia and three did not. Jami'at Islami, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group) and Ittihad were the parties which did not send their Mujahideen. But each party had its own policy on the issue. Jami'at opposed invasion of Kuwait and welcomed its liberation, but did not send any Mujahideen because of political reasons.
    Four leaders of the Mujahideen who had send their fighters to Saudi Arabia visited that country where they held talks with King Fahd.
    On his arrival back in Pakistan Prof. Mujaddidi said the Saudi monarch had assured him of his continued support for the Mujahideen.
    Reacting to the statement of Tomsen about stoppage of aid to the three Mujahideen parties, Mujaddidi said his party and AIG were not receiving any assistance since several months either.
    The US decision of cutting aid to three Mujahideen parties will weaken the Mujahideen military strength.
SCUD kills 400 in Kunar
     SCUD missiles fired by the Kabul regime killed.and wounded about 1000 people in Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, on April 20.
     The missile (or missiles) hit the center of the town at about 6:00 p.m local time, destroying many shops, hotels, houses and vehicles. The explosion also caused fires which burned for 12 hours.
     Latest reports speak of about 400 people killed and more than 600 wounded. A large number of wounded people were brought to different hospitals in Peshawar for treatment
     The casualties included local people and travellers to Chitral and Peshawar who wanted to spend the night in the town. Because of the closure of the Chitral passes, passengers (Afghans and Pakistanis) used to travel between Peshawar and Chitral through Kunar.                              \
  - Asadabad was liberated in the fall of 1988. This is the first time that it has been a target of regime attack since its liberation. The town is located about 80 kilometer from Jalalabad where the regime has presence.
     Unprovoked attack on Asadabad has caused strong reaction by the Mujahideen parties who talk of taking V__________;___________________'
1 A child injured by SCUD in Kunar
 revenge. Pakistan's representative to the UN, condemning the attack, said as a result of the incident prospects for a peaceful solution were damaged. The US government has deplored the attack on a civilian target
     This is the first time that SCUDs have caused such large-scale casualties and destruction. SCUD missil.es were handed over to the Kabul regime by Gorbachev after the Soviets withdrew their troops from Afghanistan. • Soviet technicians still help the Kabul regime to fire SCUD missiles.
y
Polish university holds seminar to discuss Afghan situation
    A three-day seminar chi Afghanistan ended on April 6 in Kracow, Poland.
    The seminar, which discussed the cultural, political, economic and humanitarian aspects of Afghanistan, was organized by the Institute of Oriental
 Prof. Rabbani meets Sovieit Ambassador
     Prof. Rabbani met with the Soviet ambassador to Pakistan in Islamabad at die beginning of April, and discussed with him the issue of prisoners of war. .
     The meeting took place at the request of the Soviet side.
 Philology of Kracow University and was financed by Kracow Municipality.
     Experts from Poland, Afghanistan Germany, Switzerland, the USA and the USSR took part in the seminar.
     This was the first seminar about Afghanistan.held in an East European country. It reflected the interest of the Polish people in Afghanistan.
     The people of Poland, who have suffered from the excesses of the Soviet Union, sympathize with the Mujahideen who fought for a decade against the Red Army.
     The editor of AFGHANews was invited to the seminar but financial constraints did not allow him to go.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©
FromThe Battlefields
Kunduz Province
    • Dasht-i-Archi District was liberated when a militia commander defected to the Mujahideen on April 7, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    Sufi Ismail, a Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) commander joined the Kabul regime last year and was made the chief commander of regime forces in the town. After ■ his defection to Hezb, regime forces and the town came under control of Hezb and Jami'at Island. The report does not give any figures for the number of armed men who defected to the Mujahideen in Dasht-i-Archi.
    Dasht-i-Archi is located between Kunduz and Khwaja Ghar. This town provided safe passage for the regime supply convoys to Khwaja Ghar, where the Kabul regime has a garrison, and which it calls its provincial capital of Takhar since the liberation of Taliqan. The liberation of Dasht-i-Archi will isolate the Khwaja Ghar garrison, which is atarget of future Mujahideen attack.
    •• The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Khan Mohammad killed 13 militiamen, captured 30 and seized SO Kalashnikov rifles and three ZPU (14.6 mm) guns on April 14 in Ali Aabad District Four enemy posts were destroyed in the attack.
    The militiamen belonged to the Sayyed of Kayan's group. Ali Aabad is located on Baghlan-Kunduz road, which connects the Salang highway to Shir Khan, on the Soviet border.
    Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation. This report was signed by Arif Khan, Jami’at Chief Commander in Kunduz Province.             ,
Baghlan Province
   The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed six enemy soldiers and wounded many more in the Jilawgeer area along the Baghlan-Kunduz highway on April 5:
 They destroyed four posts and seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. One Mujahid was martyred and four sustained injuries.
 Herat Province
     •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed three militiamen and seized eight Kalashnikov rifles in Pul-i-Khaima Doozan of Enjeel District on April 8.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen killed 35 regime troops, wounded 11 and captured 10 in Saawa area of Enjeel. They seized 17 Kalashnikovs, two machine-guns, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition. Eight Mujahideen were killed and 15 were wounded.
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 17 enemy soldiers and seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles on Herat-Torghundi road on April 8.
     •     Two soldiers were captured and one truck seized by the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Khosh Rabat area of Kushk District on Herat-Torghundi road on April 12.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen attacked a regime base on the highway, capturing two soldiers and killing or wounding some others. The Mujahideen also seized some arms and ammunition. Further details are not available.
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy in Herat-Toorghundi toad cm April 7, killing 20 soldiers and capturing six. They destroyed six trucks and one tank.
     0 A militia group of 20 men surrendered to the Mujahideen in Dargak area of Karokh District on April 9. They . brought with them 25 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launch-os, two machine-guns and one mortar.
     0 The Mujahideen destroyed two security posts at Herat airport on April 9, killing two enemy soldiers and capturing 9. They seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one wireless set and some ammu-
 nition. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed a militia commander, captured eight militiamen and seized eight Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar and two radio sets on April 17 in Karash area of Obe District. The area was freed from control by regime militiamen.
 Badghis Province
     Fifteen militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw on April 8 . bringing with them 50 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launchers, two machine-guns, two pistols and one R-105 wireless set.The attack was launched under the command of Abdul Aziz.
 Jawzjan Province
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed nine enemy troops, wounded nine and seized five Kalashnikov rifles on April 9 in Aqcha District, Commander Qazi Yasin reported.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed or wounded 70 enemy troops and captured 80 in Sar-i-Pul District on April 19.
     Forty" soldiers joined the Mujahideen. They seized one tank, one truck, 120 guns of different types and some ammunition and foodstuffs.
     As the result of this operation, which was launched under the command of Mohammad Rahim, about thirty villages were liberated and 60 security posts were destroyed.
     Five Mujahideen were killed and 17 sustained injuries. The report is signed by Qazi Yasin, Jami'at chief administrator in Jawzjan province.
 Ghor Province
     •     The Mujahideen killed 11 militiamen, wounded 8 and captured 280 in Jawand District in four days of fighting which began on April 7. They were brought into the area by helicopter.
     The Mujahideen seized 300 light weapons, three heavy machine-guns, five mortars, four R-105 wireless sets and some ammunition.
     •     In three days of fighting , the Mujahideen of Jami'at killed four militiamen, captured 25 - and seized 30 weapons and ammunition in Komonj area of Shahrak District.
     On April 12, the Mujahideen captured 11 Kalashnikov rifles and seven RPG-7 rocket launchers.
     On April 14, fifteen militiamen were captured and three were killed.
     On April 15, one militia commander was killed and 10 armed militiamen were captured.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©
  llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Wisdom of*
                                the sages
          iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Don't be taken in by the rat race
    A minister once fell from grace. He left court and joined a group of dervishes. By virtue of their company, he achieved peace of mind and a reformed character.
    The ruler soon changed his mind and decided to reinstate the disgraced minister. The man refused and said: "I prefer to live in retirement than to busy myself with politics. Whoever opts for a quiet life is bee to forget the snarling calumnies of rivals. I may no longer have the minister's special pencase, I may have tom up all my papers, but at least I no linger have to put up with bad mouthing from my critics."
    The ruler replied: "I always need a competent and wise man to help run my state.”
    "The sign of wisdom in a man, " the ex-minister replied, "is precisely not to be taken in by the false attractions of politics. Why is the Huma superior to other birds? Because it is.con-terit to live off dry bones and thus never oppresses any living thing. Have you heard the story of the lynx? It was
 asked why it chose to serve in the court of the lion and replied that at court it could live safely protected from its enemies and well-fed with the left-overs of the king's meals. The lynx was also asked why it did not, like other courtiers, manoeuvre to get itself into the innermost circle of the lion’s most trusted companions. Whereupon it said: "I cannot be safe from the king’s anger if I am too close to him. The Zoroastrian can .spend his whole life tending the fire he worships; the fire will bum him up none the less, if ever he. falls into it! Your Majesty's companions never know whether they will make a fortune or loose their heads! It is well known that one should beware of the ruler's fickle moods; he takes offence at a polite greeting one moment and the next he showers rewards on someone who has just insulted him. To be a courtier, you have to be as slippery as an eel; to be a wise man, you have to aim higher. Let politicians flatter and lie and cheat their way to the top! I know my own human worth: that dignity is enough for me.
Money does not make the man
    I saw a pot-bellied fool wearing expensive clothes while sitting on a fine Arab horse. A bystander asked me: "What do you think, Sa'di, of these fine silks on that crass idiot?"
    "It is like bad writing in gold ink. That ass has none of the moral qualities of a human being. All his pretences are
Animal appetites
    A certain man made a vow of abstinence which he repeatedly broke, A shaikh told him: "I know that you are a pathological heavy eater. The will to control your appetites is as britde as a hair, and you indulge your appetites till they would snap the toughest chain. One day you will burst!
    Keep a wolf-cub till it grows, and it will tear you to bits."
 false, all his possessions acquired dishonestly: he is fit only for a slaughterhouse. A person of quality may fall on hard days, but never think his quality is any the less for his being impoverished. A man who makes quick money dishonestly can plate his house in gold, yet no one will forget the base stock he sprang from."
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
     <Ji& 4)                  jld
     What my heart desired didn’t happen; what God wanted was really done.
    Meaning: Man proposes, god disposes.                  . . . . ,
   • tSutui rwM Ia i^Jut 4j I
       H                 ♦  ♦
     God isn't in need of our prayers.
     Meaning: God hears us out of His mercy alone.
     , Though arms are heavy their carrying is essential.
     The sun cannot be hidden by a finger.
     Meaning: Truth will out. Virtue will not be hidden.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1,1991, page ©
Asadabad tragedy exposes regime’s criminal nature
    The missile attack on Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, in which about 1000 civilian people, including women and. children, were killed and wounded is an unforgivable crime committed by the Soviet-backed Kabul regime. This was a terrorist attack on a civilian target far from the battlefields.
    Asadabad is about SO kilometers north of Jalalabad, where the Kabul regime maintains a presence. It was liberated in 1988 and its people lived in peace. Some of its inhabitants returned from refugee camps, and reconstruction work on roads and irrigation systems had begun with the help of the UN and other relief organizations.
    The Kabul regime's missile attack on Kunar was terrorism aimed at avenging its military defeat in .Khost. The attack has provoked condemnation by all the Mujahideen groups, the Pakistan government and the US. The Mujahideen have said they will punish the Kabul regime for its criminal action in Kunar.
    The attack on Asadabad demonstrated the great risks the refugees face if they return before the fall of the Kabul regime. The so-called 'tranquility zones' of the UN proved to be a death trap for innocent people. The UN is unable to check the crimes committed by the Kabul regime against the civilian population.
    The incident exposed the criminal nature of the Kabul regime. Najib does not hesitate to use weapons of mass destruction against civilian targets. The Kabul ruler, who is a KGB-trained professional criminal, does not hesitate to commit any crime which may help him to remain in power a little longer.
    Mikhail Gorbachev has provided SCUD missiles to Najib. He also is responsible for the mass-murder of civilians in Afghanistan. Although the Soviet leader was decorated with the Nobel Peace Prize, he continues to equip his puppets in Kabul with weapons of mass destruction.
    The Nobel Peace Committee is advised to withdraw the prize it gave to Gorbachev because it continues to support the regime's war efforts by providing arms, ammunition, military advisors and economic and political support.
    The UN, human rights organizations and the world media should exert pressure on the Soviet government to stop giving weapons of mass destruction to the Kabul regime, and to take back its SCUDs. Soviet technicians help the Kabul regime to fire SCUD missiles from Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif.
    The Mujahideen must punish the Kabul regime for its crime in Kunar, but they should choose their targets carefully so that civilian are not hurt.
Jami'at sympathizes with Kurds
    The plight of the Kurds is a source of great concern to Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. The Afghans' sympathy for the Kurds is natural because Afghans have been facing a similar situation at the hands of the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime.                            -  /
    Kurds are part of the Islamic Ummah and they have contributed a great deal to Islamic civilization. Their tragedy began with the end of the Ottoman Empire. The short-sighted nationalistic policies of the countries in which Kurds lived made life difficult for them. The plight of Kurds in Iraq under the Ba'th party has been a very painful episode.
    During the Iraq-Iran war, Kurds were mass-murdered by Saddam Husain's army, by means of chemical weapons. But due to political, economic and strategic considerations, the world powers forgave Baghdad for this crime. Some countries did not even allow the news of the Kurdish massacre to be printed in their papas.
    The latest phase in the plight of the Kurds began with the Gulf crisis sparked
                                        Turn to page (7 )
Wahdat office opened in city
 Hezb-i-Wahdat
Islami
 Afghanistan's office was opened in Peshawar on April 3. Hezb-i-Wahdat is a Shia party based in Teheran.
    According to Besharat, Hezb-i-Wahdat's papa in Peshawar, Sayyed Husian Jagran, a commander belonging to Shura-i-Ittifaq, has joined Hezb-i-Wahdat. Sayyed Husain-paid a visit to Tehran at the invitation of Iranian Foreign Ministry. He flow back from Tehran to Peshawar on a special plane of the Iranian government.
 Sikhs among
 fresh refugees
    Seventy Hindu and mkh families are among the several thousand Afghan refugees who Crossed the border into Pakistan following the fall of Khost on March 31. They said they were not involved in politics, but owned shops and were involved in trade.
 Kabul regime gives passport to refugees
    The Kabul regime has said it will give passports to Afghans living in exile so that they can visit Afghanistan, Radio Kabul reported. The report said die returning Afghans will be allowed to leave Afghanistan if they wished, and those eligible for military service will not be conscripted for six months. Regime embassies abroad have been directed to issue passports far applicants living in exile. The Kabul regime said the step was taken to promote its "national reconciliation" policy.
 Quake, floods destroy houses in the north
    An earthquake destroyed more than 100 houses and killed- or wounded dozens of residents of Gandumqpol and Khombok areas of Kishm District, Badakhshan Province, on April 21, MIDIA re ported, quoting Commander Aryanpoor.
    According to a separate report, floods killed about SO people and destroyed scores of houses in Khwaja Ghar District, Takhar Province on April 13. Thousands^f acres of agricultural land , was damaged.

4
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 9, May 1,1991, page ©
    April 27 marked the 13th anniversary of the communist coup in Kabul. This coup, which took place with the encouragement of the Soviet Union, opened a tragic chapter in the history of Afghanistan.
    The first two years of the communist rule saw an unprecedented dictatorship during which all sectors of society came under attack. Thousands of people were killed or jailed. This reign of terror was unleashed by People's Democratic Party (PDPA) which had been formed in 1965 on the model of the Soviet Communist Party.
    The PDPA was allowed by Zahir Shah to operate in return for Soviet economic and military aid. This aid was used by Moscow to penetrate the Afghan Army, educational institutions and the country's economic system.
   . The 1973 Daud coup, implemented with the help of the communist officers, was the first stage towards complete takeover by the communists. When Daud became worried about the ambitions of the communists and wanted to review their position, he was
 No decrease in aid to Kabul
 The Soviet Union will not decrease the level of its economic assistance to the Kabul regime in 1991, Radio Moscow reported.
 This was stated by a member of Soviet-Kabul          Economic
     Commission, which visited Kabul at the beginning of April.
 In addition to normal economic assistance, Moscow will give 210 million rubles to Kabul as a part of Soviet assistance through the UN.
 The Soviet Union has also agreed to build power transmission lines between           Turkmenistan
     Republic and Herat city to provide Herat with electricity.
 overthrown by his army, which had been infiltrated by the Soviet-trained
 officers.
     The people of Afghanistan did not approve of the communist revolution, and opposed however they could. The harsh manner in which the communists supressed active and potential enemies convinced many Afghans that armed struggle was their only , defense against the regime. Revolt spread rapidly all over Afghanistan.
     The Soviets, alarmed by the Mujahideen's quick successes, invaded Afghanistan on December 27, 1979 to save the puppet government. After almost a decade of involvement, they left Afghanistan on February 15, 1989 without achieving their objective.
   , The Soviet intervention caused five million Afghans to take refuge in neighboring countries; one and a half million were killed, and 75 percent of the country was destroyed.
     Two years have passed since the Soviet troop withdrawal, but the PDPA. is still in control of Kabul and some other cities.
     It is a tragedy that after suffering for such a long time, the Mujahideen have not been able to replace the Kabul regime with a government acceptable to the majority of Afghans.
     Most Afghans are not ready to deal with the Kabul regime. They hold it responsible for the huge tragedy of the past decade.
     The Soviet Union is still the main player in the Afghan conflict because it is preventing Afghans from exercising their right of self-determination, by trying to keep in power the Najib regime, brought to power by the Red Army.
     But the massive Soviet economic and military support will not make Najib and his friends in the PDPA acceptable to the Afghan people. The supply of SCUD missiles and other weapons of mass destruction delays the victory of Afghan people, but cannot prevent it The PDPA remains a symbol of the Soviet intervention It must go in order to make Afghanistan a truly independent state. The Mujahideen are determined to continue their struggle to achieve that noble aim.
 | Several hundred sacked employees of the Health Ministry of the [Afghan Interim Govemment(ATG) Jstaged a demonstration on April 11 to protest against the decision of that j ministry. Financial problems forced ithe AIG to reduce the number of its
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          . I
                                                                                                      Hie president of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG), who left
i * v. ix W.
    ,amabad:;lctt;.i;:§?udi Arabia th an AIG delegation on April 12, relumed to Peshawar. The members of die AIG: entourage included Sayycd Ahmad Gailamjiead of N1FA, MauJaiv Mohammad Yunus Khalis, leader of Hezb Islami and Maulawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the leader of Harakat Inqitab Islami. These leaders had sent about 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia to take part m the war against Iraq.
      Richar Hoagland, the former Director of the American Center in Peshawar, has been appointed deputy of the American special envoy to the Afghan resistance.
      Hog]and has been working as'a g&T&bsl in the, estate |pepartinent«tm» 1989, He prepared daily reports about the situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan for Secretary James Baker and other ranking officials in die White House.
  ill
      Fiver Afghan refugees wore killed when the vehicle carrying them fell into a ravine near Prshin, 'Baluchistan,5 ran
  were gunned
[men on the oat-1
^PP^Ontj was brother of
                          down by unknown
 MiHwl
  The victims-were travelling in a van when they were attacked with automatic weapons. One |pon escaped
       ....- .*•# .. -
 Soviet Union will provide 50
  MIDIA reported. The types of fight-pis ate not; known, butcjley me believed to w among the most up-to-
                                                                                                                                                               00:
  its air force to defend itself against
 Obituaries
                                             AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©
Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad
     Wakil Sayyed Mohayuddin Sayyad, Jami'at commander in Teshkan valley of Keshm district, was assassinated by unknown men in Taliqan on April 8.
     He had come to Taliqan to attend the 6th meeting of Supervisory Council. He was killed while praying in a mosque.
     There is no information about the assassins but inquiry to track down the culprit (or culprits) has begun by the Council's concerned organizations.
     The Kabul regime was quick in giving the report of the incidents, blaming the incident on one of the local Jami'at commanders. Jami'at does not role out KHAD's involvement in the assassination to create tension between Mujahideen causing a delay in the expected military operations.
     Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad led more than 1500 armed Mujahideen in Teshkan side-valley. He is known as Wakil Sahib because he was a member of parliament during the time of the king.
     He took part in many battles against the the communists and the Red Army. He was one of the admirers of Commander Ahmad Shah Masood.
     He survived an attempt on his life in 1985 but one of his hands was paralyzed due to the injury he sustained in the incident.
     Sayyed Mahyuddin was bom 56 years ago in the village of Marghzar of Teshkan, a narrow valley parallel to the main Keshm valley. His father, Sayyed Shir Khan was a rich man.
     Wakil Mahyuddin fmished primary school in Teshkan and learned about Islam from Maulawi Saray in Keshm.
     He has established nine Madrasas or "religious schools" and 14 schools including one girls’ school. He runs a good hospital.
     He was a relatively wealthy man but lived a simple life. This was the main reason for his popularity among his people. He has married four times and has nine children. He can be described as traditional leader.
 •  Sayyed Mahyuddin (top)
 •  Fazel Ahmad Grurg( bottom)
Cmdr. Fazel Ahmad Gurg
     Fazel Ahmad Gurg, a famous Mujahideen commander in Herat who led about 1,000 men, was killed in an ambush by regime militiamen in Ghoryan District on the Iranian border on April 13. Gul Mohammad, his cousin, was also killed in the incident.
     His representative in Peshawar told AFGHANews that Abdullah, a militia commander, had indicated he wanted to defect to die Mujahideen and had invited commander Fazel Ahmad to meet with him to discuss his surrender terms. On the way to the meeting, Fazel Ahmad was ambushed by the
 Abdullah's men.
     The Mujahideen captured four of the culprits but one of them was able to escape. The four assassins were executed.
     Fazel Ahmad, 40, belonged to the Noorzay tribe. He lived in Qurgabad village.
     Fazel Ahmad worked as a farmer before the April coup of 1978. He did not go to a formal school but attended mosque school to learn about Islam. Although his base was along the border, he always took part in operations around the city of Herat when Soviet
 and regime troops attacked the Mujahideen.
     Fazel Ahmad was a well-built man with a good temper. He held an uncompromising posture towards the regime and this was the reason for the plot to kill him.
     Fazel Ahmad. was close to' the Afzali front in Herat He had come to Pakistan twice to meet Jami'at leaders. His family arc refugees in the Iranian cityofTaybat
     He has. left behind two sons who are Mujahideen. His brother, Momin Gurg, has been choosen as the commander of his front
                          The MIDIA reporters give the recent prices of essential commodities in Kabul as follows:
  *        Cooking oil....................  750 Afs. per  kilogram                |
  I        Beans...........................  560 Afs. per kilogram                |
  I        Sugar...............:...........  560 Afs. per kilogram                |
  1         Potatoes..............  .........100 Afs. per kilogram                 |
  I        Onion..........................  .229 Afs. per kilogram                 |
           Wheat......................-......214 Afs.per kilogram                 (
  *        Apples......__________________   400  Afs. per kilogram                |
  *        Oranges.......—___________       550  Afs. per kilogram                |
  I        Kerosene oil.................    1,300  Afs. per gallon                .
  *        Petrol........;..................1,800 Afs. per gallon                 |
  I        Diesel...............  1,160 Afs. per gallon                           .
  '   -______________________w_     —                   -   -
  ( One US dollar is exchanged with 780 Afghani (Afs.) and average officer of
  I                  regime receives a monthly salary of 6,000 Afs.               1
  V___________________________________________________________________________    *
 35 Afghans drowned
   Thirty-five persons lost their lives after their buS fell into the Kunar river, as a result of severe bombing by the Kabul regime in the Noor Gul area of Khiwa District in Nagaihar province on April 16, MIDIA reported.
   An eye-witness said a Laghman-bound bus struck a rock and fell into the river due to severe bombing by Kabul jet aircraft. As a result 35 passengers, among them women and children, were killed.
   The reporter added that Mujahideen in the area recovered all the dead bodies from the river and handed them over to their relatives.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1,1991, page Q
Afghan issue causes dispute among Pakistani politicians
     The visit of two Pakistani politicians to Khost after its liberation provoked an angry reaction by the Kabul regime . and its sympathizers in Pakistan.
     Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, visited Khost accompanying Gulbuddin Hikmatyar. Jamaat sources claimed that he had gone on a mediation mission between Hikmatyar and Haqqani, who had developed differences over the way Hezb used the Khost victory for publicity and seizure of weapons.-It is believed that the leader of Jamaat Islami, who is a senator is very close to Hikmatyar, and one can find a lot of similarities between the views of the two on issues concerning Jehad and worldwide Islam.
     A few days later, Maulawi Fazel Rahman, the leader of Jamaat Ulama-i-Islam, visited Khost at the invitation of Com. Haqqani. In press conference held in Khost he asked the Pakistan government to extend recognition to the Afghan Interim Government.
     Haqqani is a graduate of a traditional Madrasa and has close contacts with traditional mamas in Pakistan,
     The Pakistani press labelled the trip of the two leaders to Khost a competition between the two Pakistani religious organizations.
     A member of Pakistan senators and some members of the National Assembly sharply criticized the visit by Pakistan politicians to Khost, and called it a breach of the Geneva Accords signed between Pakistan and the Kabul regime.
      Senator Mahmood Khan Achakzay, the leader of a leftist party in Baluchistan and Ajmal Khatak, the president of the National Awami Party (ANP), criticized the Visit. Both lived in exile in Afghanistan for several years as political refugees and are known for their sympathetic views on the Kabul regime.
      However, relations between the ANP led by Wali Khan and the Kabul regime have become strained. The Kabul regime supported the radical elements, led by Afrasiab Khatak, to break away from the ANP. Kabul is unhappy about the ANP's support for Nawaz Sharifs government. It is. said that Ajmal Khatak's statement in the National Assembly of Pakistan, in support of Kashmiris and criticizing the Indian government, has dismayed Kabul — a traditional ally of Delhi.
      Meanwhile, the Pakistan government has decided to accept the academic credentials of about 2000 Pakistanis who have studied in Soviet and East European universities. These students who mainly belong to National Awami Party and other leftist groups, had left Pakistan illegally, and the Kabul regime had arranged their studies with the concerned countries. The main idea behind such a plan was to train revolutionary cadres in N.W.F.P and Baluchistan.
      Until recently the government of Pakistan had refused to accept the credentials of the "illegal students". Cooperation between the ANP and Nawaz Sharifs government paved the way for this concession.
American scholar says:
Najib still follows KGB
     Anthony Arnold, an American scholar and author of The Soviet Invasion of Afghanistan, has said the main player in Soviet policies is the KGB. The Soviet army had been discredited by taking part in suppression of local uprisings in the USSR, but the KGB has not suffered such a set back. This has put the KGB in a position to play a key role in shaping Soviet policies.
     The KGB wants to show a human face by bringing about cosmetic changes, such as changing the names of some institutions. For qxample, the name Comsomol, the Youth Organization of the Communist Party, has been changed.
He said the KGB had kept its close ties with Najibullah, and the Kabul regime had adopted a similar policy of changing institutional names. But the changes have not altered the basic aims of the communist system.
     Arnold said: "I suggest that our government should continue to support the Mujahideen as long as the Soviet support the Kabul regime. I think Soviets give ten times more to Najibullah regime than our government gives to the Mujahideen.”
     He reiterated that since there was no change on Soviet Afghan policy, the West and US should riot reduce their assistance to the Afghan resistance.
 Editorial
       From page (4) by the adventuristic policies of Baghdad's dictator. Allied forces encouraged the Kurds to launch military attacks against Baghdad, but when the Kurds took up the challenge and faced Saddam's military machine, they were abandoned.
    The deathly silence of the world's Muslims over the plight of the Kurds is deplorable. During the Gulf war thousands of people streamed into the streets (including members of some Islamic parties) to show sympathy with the people of Iraq. Where are they, now that millions of Iraqi Kurds are facing death on the mountain tops.
    Jami'at does not have any sympathy with the leftist policies of Kurdish political organizations. Borrowed ide ologies have never suited Muslims. Our sympathies are with the millions of ordinary Kurds who have been suffering for so long. We hope to see an end to the current Kurdish crisis. And we want to see leaders in Muslim countries who are above using chemical weapons and SCUDs against their own people.
  Bookworms storm classic peotry
    Demand for a classic poetry book. Char Ketab, in Tajikistan have surprised its publishers.
 I When Char Ketab, a classic poetry bode written by the great mystic Shaikh Fariduddin Attar (513-618 lu» nar Hijri) was published on February 1, people rushed to buy it The demand was so great that the book was sold at five times its cover price in the black market.
    Char Ketab is being used in Afghanistan in all mosque schools. Its simple language and humane message has made it very popular.
    The people in .Tajikistan were not allowed to have access to. classic Islamic literature. The limited freedom allowed them by Gorbachev is being fully used to renew their links with the glorious Islamic past
  Seminar on Afghanistan
    A one-day conference to discuss the. Afghan situation after the fall of Khost was held in Paris on April 18 The conference was organized by BIA a French private humanitarian organization.
    In this conference some Afghans, living in Pakistan and the West, and French experts took part. The US and Soviet embassies also sent representatives to the conference.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 9, May 1, 1991, page ©

 {(host garrison town was liberated by the Mujahideen on March 31
Khost victory ignites Afghan battlefields
    The liberation of Khost, at the start of the Afghan new year, las given life to the battlefields in different parts of Afghanistan.
    Aerial bombardments, and SCUD and Frog missile attacks continue at Khost. It seems that Kabul, losing hope of regaining Khost, wants to destroy it.
    The Mujahideen showed a number of regime generals and some soldiers captured in Khost to the press. Among the soldiers were children of 13 and 14 years of age who had been pressed ganged by the regime.
    Commandbr Haqqani, the most powerful commander on the Khost front, has said that he will only release prisoners when he is sure that they will not join in fighting against the Mujahideen.
    Some important communist officers who were in Khost when it fell to the Mujahideen have disappeared. Some of them might have reached Gardez with the help of local tribes friendly to the regime. Some others might have been released with the help of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the former defence minister of the regime, who joined Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) one year ago.
    In a press conference held in the border town of Miranshah, Jalaluddin Haqqani said T-55 tanks captured from Kabul troops in Samar Khail, Jalalabad, and Zabul played a significant role in breaking the defenses of the Kabul regime in Khost.
    He said the Mujahideen lost 150 men in the fighting for the liberation of Khost while 300 Mujahideen sustained injuries. The casualties of the Kabul regime were twice that.
    The Kabul regime, which tries to adopt an Islamic face, was embarrassed when the Mujahideen, showed
 journalists a great deal of communist literature printed in Moscow, and a considerable number of Vodka bottles they had captured in Khost.
     The Mujahideen are discussing their future courses of action. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar talks about attacking Kabul, while the rest of the Mujahideen are in favor Of attacking weaker targets like Ghazni, Qalat, Gardez and Logar. It should mentioned that the council of commanders, in its meeting in Shah Salim, had decided to start operations against weaker targets.
     The Mujahideen attacked Gardez garrison with rockets during Eid. The purpose was to put pressure on regime forces. The Kabul regime continues to consolidate the defences of Gardez by bringing in more supplies and troops. It has also increased aerial bombing of liberated areas around Jalalabad to prevent a possible Mujahideen attack on that city.
     Kunar-Laghman road, used by traders. Mujahideen and refugees, is a target of aerial and artillery attack of the regime. The Kabul regime fired SCUD missiles into Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, causing heavy casualties. The Mujahideen have intensified their activities, in Faryab, Jawzjan, Kunduz and Herat.
     Najib, who was shocked by the defeat of his troops in Khost, has said that his troops would recapture the isolated outpost.
     The liberation of Khost has put the Afghan issue back in the limelight of international media. Pakistan has announced it is launching an initiative for achieving a political solution by talking to the Soviet Union, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
     the victory in Khost has given the Mujahideen self-confidence and they are now optimistic about a military solution to the problem.
Blast destroys weapons dump
    An explosion in the Balahisar Fort in Kabul destroyed a considerable amount of arms and ammunition belonging to the Kabul regime on April 11, MIDI A reported, quoting its sources within Kabul.
    According to the report prepared by a three-member committee which investigated the incident, the following arms were destroyed in the explosion: 20 different types of machine guns, 14 anti aircraft guns, 19 artillery pieces, 16 mortars, 10 vehicle-mounted rocket launchers, more than 1000 light weapons and a large amount of ammunition.
    The official report blames official negligence for the explosion, but sabotage by the Mujahideen could not be ruled out.
    No figures' are given for casualties in the explosion but they are said to have been heavy. Several armored cars and trucks parked nearby also burned.
India gives limbs to regime's veterans
    India is to provide artificial limbs for 1500 amputees among regime troops, Kabul TV reported.
    India will also help in building a 300-bed maternity hospital in Kabul.
    The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has said that his country will continue to give assistance to the Kabul regime despite economic difficulties at home. Radio Kabul reported.
    He said daily landing of transport planes in Kabul to bring food from Soviet Union is proof of Soviet resolve in supporting the Kabul regime.
    American sources estimate that the Soviet Union gives monthly aid of 300 to 400 million dollars to the Kabul regime.
                                                     tttetp us -puBCisfv
                                                 TUase send yourdonations to the foCUnving account number:
                                                     JTJCVD Account 735-37 9fabib‘Bani^Ltd. Ijekkcd'Baba, Teshaioar ‘Pakistan
 Vol 7, No 10
 May 15,1991
UN intensifies peace efforts
     Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's personal representative, has recently held talks in Islamabad, Peshawar, Tehran, Kabul and Moscow in an effort to find a formula for the political solution to the of Afghan issue.
     In Islamabad, he met with Pakistani officials and in Peshawar with Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani.
     In Teheran, he talked to representatives of Wahdat party and Iranian officials. He met with Najib in Kabul. Najib complained about the alleged 'involvement of Pakistan in fighting for control of Khost .
     Prof. Rabbani informed Sevan about aerial bombing of Qaysar District, Faryab Province, by planes flying from Soviet Union. He asked him to discourage the Moscow from interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
     Pakistan says it will intensify efforts to find a political solution to the Afghan problem. Delegations will visit Iran, Saudi Arabia, USA, Soviet Union and China to discuss the issue with the leaders of these countries. Pakistan does not recognize Kabul regime and will not establish direct contact with Najib.
     Press reports talk about a secret meeting between representative of regime with Pakistan and Hezb Islami of-, ficials in Geneva at the end of Holy month of Ramadhan. Pakistan has denied the report. Hezb has denied holding of any meeting with Kabul regime. Hezb Islami officials had met with regime's men in Baghdad two years ago.
     Some months ago, media reported holding of a meeting between Najib and Pir Gailani in Geneva, but Gailani does not admit it publicly.
     While the press talk about new initiatives to find a political solution to the Afghan problem, the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime have stuck to> their previous positions. The Mujahideen reject any deal with the Kabul regime and the Kabul proposes power-sharing with the Mujahideen.
Kabul regime wins Logar media war
     After a military defeat in Khost, the Kabul regime scored a propaganda victory when it captured Waghjan Gorge in Logar on April 25.
     Waghjan Gorge, through which Kabul-Gardiz road passes, is located about 50 kilometers south of Kabul. By controlling this gorge, the Mujahideen had cut the road.
     The Kabul regime launched attack on Waghjan Gorge on April 18. Ground attack was launched from all directions after several days of bombardment of the area with artillery, rockets and from the air. The Mujahideen were forced to retreat.
     The Kabul regime has claimed achieving a major military victory by capturing the headquarters of Lashkar-i-Easar, a military formation of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group). It claimed killing and wounding of more than 800 Mujahideen and seizing a large number of weapons and ammunition.
     Regime also claimed capturing of two Pakistani nationals fighting along the Mujahideen. The Kabul TV, however, failed to present evidence of regime's claims. It showed the bodies of three people, two prisoners and some arms and ammunition.
     The casualties of the Mujahideen are estimated more than 100 men.
     The role of two militia groups , Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Kayan, has been significant in Logar operation. Hie two militia leaders were promoted to higher military ranks. Several hundreds regime soldiers and officers were promoted or were given medals and cash awards for their role in Logar operation. Najib wanted to raise the morale of its troops which was badly damaged by the fall of Khost garrison.
     The strategy of the Kabul regime in Logar operation was to push the Mujahideen away from Kabul, thus minimizing the chances of their attack on Kabul, and to open the road to Gardiz which is a target of Mujahideen's concerted attacks after
 the fall of Khost. If the road is kept open, regime can take supplies and reinforcement to Gardiz very easily. In addition to its military objectives regime needed a symbolic victory to raise the moral of its troops after its defeat in Khost and improve its international image.
     While the regime has achieved an initial success, it is too early to conclude that it has gained all its objectives. The. Mujahideen will definitely hit back. With the escalation of fighting in other parts of Afghanistan, Kabul will not have enough men to consolidate the ground it has gained in Logar.
     The Mujahideen in Logar had faced problems due to flooding Logar river which restricted their movement and decreased their ability to move supplies and'men from one side to the other. There are also reports of some sort of uneasy feelings between the local Mujahideen belonging to other parties and Lashkar-i-Easar. The local Mujahideen resented presence of Lashkar-i-Easar because it was not a local organization which received a lot of military and financial assistance while the local Mujahideen felt that they were let down. This feeling prevented close cooperation between the Mujahideen belonging to other parties and Lashkar-i-Easar. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties also resented publicity made by Hezb from joint operations in the past The Kabul regime was aware of these problems and might have exploited to its advantage in the attack on Waghjan.
     The level of fighting in other parts of Afghanistan shows an increase. The Kabul regime continue to bomb Kunar, Ningarhar, Herat, Kandahar, Paktia, Ghazni and Badakhshan. In the face of increased attacks in Paktia and Kunar, the UN has withdrawn its officials from these two provinces. The Mujahideen in Herat repulsed a regime offensive in Guzara District inflicting heavy losses on the Kabul forces.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 10, May 15,1991, page
 Farah Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed one fighter plane by firing rockets into the regime base in Shindand on April 23.
 Herat Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Ismail Khan intensified their attacks in different parts of Herat province to express their opposition to the communist rule on the occasion of the 13th anniversary of the April coup. Following are the accounts of Mujahideen operations on April 27 and 28 in different parts of Herat:
    •      The Mujahideen fired rockets * into Herat Division and posts near the Cement Factory destroying one BM-13 rocket launcher and setting on fire an ammunition dump.
    •      The Mujahideen killed five militiamen, captured 11 and seized 21 Kalashnikov rifles in Obe District \
    •      The Mujahideen attacked the enemy security posts on Herat-Torghundi highway destroying one truck, killing 20 soldiers and capturing two.
    •      The Mujahideen destroyed two armored cars of the enemy in Khaja Qala area of the city of HeratTheir crew were killed in the incident
    •      The Mujahideen seized five Kalashnikov rifles and two heavy ma-chineguns in Murgha area of Chusht sub-DistricL The area was liberated from control of the regime forces.
    •      The Mujahideen killed five soldiers, wounded two and destroyed one truck on Herat-Shindand road.
    •      Five militiamen woe killed-when the truck carrying them was destroyed by a landmine planted by the Mujahideen near Herat Cement Factory.
    •      Two ranking regime officers were killed when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the 4th Armored Division close to the city.
     •     The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers and wounded three on Herat-Torghundi highway in Kamar Kula area of Gulran District One truck and one artillery piece were also destroyed in the attack.
     •      The Mujahideen killed 11 enemy soldiers, wounded two and set chi fire an ammunition dump when they attacked the enemy bases in Zangi Saba area of Ghoryan District, close to the Iranian border.
     •     The Mujahideen killed three soldiers and wounded two in Bagh-i-Kamar area of Ghoryan District The regime troops retaliated by bombing the Mujahideen positions killing two Mujahideen and one child.
     • The Mujahideen killed or wounded more than 30 enemy soldiers and officers when they fired rockets into Herat Division. As a result of the Mujahideen attacks, Herat-Torghundi road has been blocked causing acute shortages of food and fuel in the city.
     • The Mujahideen killed or wounded 15 militiamen in Obe District
     •     The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and wounded four when they fired rockets into the enemy positions near Herat Cement Factory.
     . • Fifty militiamen of the Kabul regime surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Adraskan District on May '4, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
     They handed over the following items to the Mujahideen:
     •Kalashnikov rifles: 36
     •Mortar (82 mm): 1
     •ZPU machinegun (14.6 mm): 1
     •Goryunov manchineguns: 2
     •Truck: 1
     •      The Kabul regime has started bombing of the liberated areas of Herat
 . since May 4, Ismail Khan reported.
    : Regime planes bomb some area eight times each day. They also fire rockets and artillery into the liberated areas which is answered back by the Mujahideen.
    Regime also has brought new soldiers to Herat from neighboring province, indicating the start of a possible ground attack against the Mujahideen around the city of Herat.
Ghor Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at, in cooperation with the Mujahideen of other parties, destroyed one enemy posts in Sar Cheshma area of Shahrak on May 5 and killed or wounded 15 enemy soldiers. They captured the following weapons:
    •Kalashnikov rifles: 35 •P.K machinegun: 1 •Mortar: 1
    •DShK machineguns: 3 •Radio set (R-105): 1
Balkh province
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed one tank and One truck and captured two regime officers in Kunda Khurd, near the city of Mazar-i-Sharif on April 21. They seized four Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher, and some ammunition.
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed eight militiamen and seized one P.K machinegun, two Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar and a large quantity of ammunition of different types in Langar Khana area on April 22. The Mujahideen lost one man in the operation.
    •     The Mujahideen seized 28 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition when they attacked the enemy security posts of the city on April 25.
    •     Farman, a militia commander, and his group of 30 men surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Charbolak District on May 1. They brought with them the following weapons:
    •Kalashnikov rifles: 80 •RPG rocket launchers: 5 •PK machinegun: 1 •82 mm RR guns: 3 •Howitzer (76 mm): 1 •Trucks: 2 •Jeep: 1
Kabul Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killet or wounded 35 enemy soldiers, captured 10 and destroyed one tank and two truck in Dudamast area of Paghman District on April 27, Commander Mullah Ezat reported. Three posts were also destroyed and 20 guns were seized.
    Regime forces retaliated by firing rockets into the villages of Qala-i-Turn to page ( 8 )
AFGHANews Vol 1, No 10, May 15,1991, page ©

Wisdom of

the sages
Prisoner of himself
   An ill-natured man is a prisoner of fly to the skies to flee misfortune, but if his own bad temper. Wherever he goes, you are bad-tempered, you carry your he cannot escape the unpleasantness own misfortune with you. that he spreads around him. You can
Squabbling enemies no threat
   When you see your enemies squab- 8° make merry with your friends, bling and quarreling among them- As soon as they make a common policy selves, sit back and laugh. But if you and speak with one voice, then get see them united, then start worrying, ready to use your artillery and While they are fighting with each other,. ammunition.
Beware of friendly tricks
   When your enemy has exhausted he will use that friendship to ruin you all his bag of tricks, he then tries to be- more surely than he ever would have come your friend. And if you let him, done with war.
Defeat enemy by enemy
    Use your enemy to crush the snake's head, so that you may be sure of at least one positive result: if he kills the snake, you are rid of the snake; if the snake kills him, you are rid of your
 enemy.
     On the day of battle, never underestimate an apparently weak enemy, for whoever is cornered and despairs of his life, will claw out the lion's eyes.
Ruler's friendship not reliable
                                             Never rely on the friendship of rul- who has too many friends; and if you
ers, nor ever be taken in by the sweet do give your heart to such a one, be voice of young boys. A mere whim can
change the former and the first sweet
 sure you will loose it, and that the end


dream can break the latter.  of the affair will be separation and
   Never fall in love with someone loneliness.
Wasted knowledge and riches
   There are two types of people scholar? That numb-skull cannot tell who waste their lives and whose ef- the difference between a load of forts remain fruitless: the man who learned books or a load of brushwood piles up wealth without ever using it ‘ for the fire, to make himself or others happy; and the man who labours to acquire knowledge yet fails to act on what he knows.
   However much you study, if you do not put into practice what you have learned, you will always be an ignorant fool! Load an ass with half a ton of books, does that make him wise or a
Three things
   There are three things which must be coupled with three other things in order to survive: wealth with trade; knowledge with free speech; the state with the strong arm of the law.
                     AFGHAN PROVERBS
                                                                                                                                       Ija.
     God has said, "Start moving so that I may start blessing."
     Meaning; We must do our part for God to bless; or,
     God helps those who help themselves.
                <5* L> ^
     In childhood you're playful. In youth you're lustful. In old age you're feeble, so when will you before God be worshipful?
     Meaning: It is easy to find excuses for not worshiping God.
    Death is not for the young, nor for the old (but for all).
    Meaning: Death devours lambs as well as sheep.
    In bad days a man calls even a donkey his uncle.
    Meaning: Necessity teaches the bear to dance.
 Narrated Az-Zubair bmAI-Awam*
 • :••••. . •• •• :■ .
 TheProphet (peace be upon him)
 pNo doubt, one had better take] a rope and tie a bundle of wood arid sell it whereby Allah will keep his face away (from Hell- |
 may give or not."
IS
I
m
m

                                                           a t:nu a n vr o 10, May 15, 1991, page Q                
                                                  AiHjllAJNews VOl /, JN                                           
                                                                         r----n                                    
                                                  'rjp.PS^fcir .'L^;v■ v p Review                                  
                         Wr :j- Tet: <052l14138 i, FAX:(D52 Pi 42410 ^ | -:----U                                   
Editorial                                                                "Scars of War" fPoussieres de             
V                                                                        Guerre) is the title of a remarkable      
                                                                         book which was published last October     
                                                                         following screening of a film by the      
                                                                         same name about the consequences of       
                                                                         ten years of war in Afghanistan. This is  
                                                                         the latest book on Afghanistan pub¬       
                                                                         lished in France. Seven thousand cop¬     
Our POWs need protection                                                 ies of the'book has already been sold     
Treatment of prisoners of war (POW) by the Mujahideen and                around the world.                         
the Kabul regime has become a subject for the media debate since         It is the result of one year of re¬       
the fall of Khost.                                                       search by two French journalists,         
The Kabul regime has launched a campaign for the release of its          Frederic Laffont and Christophe de        
prisoners. The Foreign Minister of regime, Abdul Wakil, raised           Ponfilly. The first team headed by        
this issue with the UN Secretary General during his recent visit to      Frederic Laffont went to Moscow,          
New York.                                                                Minsk, Tashkent and Kabul. The sec¬       
The Mujahideen captured about 2500 soldiers and officers of              ond team, led by Christophe de            
the Kabul regime in Khost.                                               Ponfilly, went to Afghanistan with the    
The Mujahideen treatment of POWs has been generally much                 Mujahideen to the areas controlled by     
better than the treatment of POWs by the Kabul regime and the            Supervisory Council headed by             
Soviets. It is a common practice among the Mujahideen to release         Commander Masood and Peshawar.            
conscript soldiers immediately after their capture and even they         The book is exceptional because it        
have helped prisoners financially to join their families.                tells the history of all men and women    
Officers and soldiers with criminal records are kept in prisons          involved in this war. For the first time, 
for some time, but in most cases, they are also set free. The            Soviet veterans, their wives and moth¬    
Mujahideen give medical aid to wounded prisoners of war and feed         ers make confessions on this hidden       
them from what they eat themselves. Of course, there has been oc¬        drama which tore apart the Soviet soci¬   
casional cases of maltreatment of POWs by some Mujahideen                ety. For the first time, Afghans and      
groups which is deplorable but cannot be avoided in a country en¬        Soviets find themselves in front of each  
gaged in a guerrilla war with numerous armed groups and fighting         other talking to journalists who listen   
fronts. But, these cases are rare.                                       to them from a neutral position. It was   
The Mujahideen have treated the Soviet POWs better than re¬              a useless and shameful war for the        
gime prisoners. In most cases, Soviet POWs live a normal life like       Soviets but Jihad (Holy war in defence    
the Mujahideen. Despite the hostile policy of Moscow towards             of homeland and faith) for the Afghans    
Afghan people, the Mujahideen have freed many Soviet POWs on             who suffered one and half millions        
humanitarian grounds . Soviet have failed to reciprocate to these        dead.                                     
gestures. The Mujahideen have started to allow ICRC and foreign          At the lights of this document one        
journalists to visit prisoners which is a positive development in        perceives how the two so different so¬    
itself.                                                                  cieties, Afghan and Soviet, are           
The Soviets and the Kabul regime, on the other hand, do not ad¬          transforming.                             
mit having any POWs. Mujahideen captured by them are labelled as         Finally "Scars of War" in addition        
terrorists, foreign agents and saboteurs. They face death or rigorous    to covering of current events is also a   
imprisonment Prisoners released after serving several years in re¬       page of the Afghan History and a testi¬   
gime jails talk of torture and trial by revolutionary courts. Killing of mony which is lacking about other         
wounded Mujahideen by regime people is common.Here is an ex¬             wars imposed on us: Alexender the         
ample: A wounded soldier who was hospitalized in Wazir Akber             Great in 330-326 B.C., Mongols in         
Khan hospital in Kabul said: " A wounded Mujahid from Panjshir           1221-1222 and British in 1838-1842,       
was brought to the hospital in April of 1984. Several Parchami and       1878-1880 and 1919.                       
Khalqi officers poured into the room. They accused him of killing        This remarkable book will be              
their relatives. They injected poison to the wounded Mujahid and         translated into Persian and probably      
killed him in front of all other patients." Restriction on the flow of   Pushtu to allow our countrymen to read    
information from Kabul stops the story of regime's atrocities from       it. The film is already translated to     
reaching to the outside world.                                           Persian.                                  
It worth mentioning that the Soviet Union and Kabul regime               "Scars of War" is Published bv            
have signed the Geneva convention on POWs, while Mujahideen              Robert Laffont, October 1990, in 317      
have not.                                                                Page                                      
The Mujahideen expect the international human rights organiza¬           Earlier, Christophe de Pnfilly had        
tion to exert pressure on Soviet Union and Kabul regime to abide by      written another book Le clandestin        
the Geneva convention which they have signed and treat                   dans la guerre des Resistants Afghans.    
Mujahideen POWs according to international norms.                        Mehrbuddin Mas tan                        
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 10, May 15,1991, page 0
 Obituaries
Commander Sayyed Allauddin
     Commander Sayyed Allauddin, Jami'at commander in the center of Faryab, was martyred during an operation against the Kabul regime in Shireen Tagab District on April 19.
     Sayyed Allauddin led about 300 Mujahideen. He was famous for his fearless operations against the regime forces.
     The following were some of his actions:
     •Karwan Bashi post, which was protected by 300 enemy troops, was captured in 1989. In the operation 22 enemy troops were killed. Six Mujahideen were killed.
     •In the same year, Deh Maida post was captured; 32 communists died and 12 were wounded. Seven Mujahideen lost their lives in the attack..
     •Deh Azizan post was captured in 1988. Twelve soldiers were captured and 14 guns seized in the operation. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
     Allauddin started his armed struggle with his cousin Sayyed Noor Mohammad Hashimi. When Hashimi was martyred in 1984, Allauddin took his place. Although he was not of Hashimi's caliber, he maintained the standard of his work and managed to protect his organization.
     Allauddin was famous for his courage in the battlefield and his Islamic character. He treated his Mujahideen and the people with affection, but he was a fierce enemy of the communists.
     A close friend said Allauddin was hampered by a lack of higher education which prevented him from planning in advance and conducting a war of sophisticated strategy. He could, howev-
               ■ ■         '>x;
Moalim Mohammad Kazim
     Moalim Mir Mohammad Kazim, 40, Jami'at commander in Shashan valley of Andarab, was gunned down by an ex-militiaman on March 26 in his native village. He led about 200 armed Mujahideen.
     Commander Kazim was one of the few people who started armed struggle against the communist regime in 1979 in Andarab.
     When Juma Khan, Hezb-i-Islami commander in Andarab, joined the Soviets in 1984 , Kazim was one of the few Mujahideen who continued armed struggle against him.
     When the Soviets left Andarab, the militia groups defected to different Mujahideen . A group of militiamen headed by Liqa surrendered to Kazim.
     Kazim was a graduate of Darul-
                                                                                                         • Sayyed Allauddin (Top) Moalim Kazim(Bottom)
 er, have been described as a good tactician.
     Allauddin learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. At the age of seven he went to primary school. He stopped attending school after four years and started to work with his cousin as a shopkeeper.
     Sayyed Allauddin was bom 32 years ago in Kohi Khana, a suburb of Maimana. His father, Sayyed Ebrahim, was a Qari (one who has memorized Holy Quran). He was married and has left behind one child.
 Moalimeen of Kunduz (a teacher training school) and served for many years as a teacher in Khenjan, Andrab and Nahrin districts of Baghlan.
     Kazim was bom in a Tajik family in Mir Ghazi village of Shashan. His father, Mir Mohammad Akram, was a farmer. He completed primary and secondary schools in Shashan.
     Moalim Kazim was a well-known person in Andarab, Nahrin, Panjshir and Khost because of his frequent visits to these areas to take part in Jehad or to discuss Mujahideen's problem with Cmdr. Masood and Abdul Hay Haqjo.
     Moalim Kazim had a good reputation for his resiliancc against the enemy and good manners. He had lost two of his brothers in fighting against the communist. He has left behind six children.
 ? Hashmat K&ftain,regime's Ambassador to North Korea and former head of the political section of KHAD, has sought political asylum from Canada i^veramenf|ll|'r ‘III
     Km ham reached Canada with his family and driver without having a yisa||^||ii|han community in Canada has asked Canadian authorities ’not to grant asylum to Kaihani because he has been involved in committing atrocities against the resistance^';-i?
                                                                •••
     Mawlawt Younus Kbalis, the interior minister of AIG, has resigned from bis post. His party, however, continue to remain in the AlG.
     Khalis said he resigned because other Mujahideen leaders did not t^opemte to         strong.
     Kabul TV showed gatherings of people in mosques to pray for the departed souls of the defenders of Khost. Many Sikhs and Hindus were ^te^mg::i|e mosques. :lp. pay for ’martyrs' of regime. It is
                   Hindus attend-a mosques to pray for a communists who defy religi6h. The event highlights the contradictions surrounding politics of the Kabul regime.
                                                                •••
     The end ofRamactlian, broughtito an end wearing of head dress by fe-rn^e hewscasters of Kabul TV. As it was predicted, the new dress code was a temporary measure to appease
 during rite holy month of Ramadhan.| I Islam recommend Muslim women to covet their heads in public. ■■■[
   JdPsbanese ttqops dispersed a^sitl lin by Afghan refugees at tbe Bewit [office of the United Nations High ICornmissh for l(UNHCR).
 hour protest on April 24. Hie [Afghans said rite UN agency had

                                                    Hh|
    An Afghan couple were killed when the roof of their bouse fell oft] them at Ghari $hcr Ahmed near Bannu ofRW.FJP.on Apnl29. j
AFGHANews Vol7, No 10, May 15,1991, page-©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Abdul Aziz
     Abdul Aziz, the commander of the fifth Mobile Unit of the Supervisory Council, played a major role in capturing Kuran-o-Munjan garrison in 1987- Kuran garrison was protected by many security posts, of which Shakh Post was the most important. Located on a steep hill overlooking the area, the post was defended by 64 soldiers and officers equipped with light 1 and heavy weapons.
     In a sand-table briefing, Ahmad Shah Masood stressed die importance of capturing the post. He said it was key to capturing the Kuran garrison. If the post were not captured, the Mujahideen who had to attack the garrison itself would have been killed or captured because they would have had no way to retreat.
     Aziz fully realized the risky mission to which he was assigned. He led about 80 men, divided into active and reserve groups, in die attack. When the attack started the defenders of the post resisted stoutly. Matters became worse when a recoilless rifle assigned to bombard the post from an elevated position overhead failed to reach its position on time. Eight Mujahideen were killed and many others injured.
     Aziz, who is known for his careful approach, became worried about the casualties. He and afeW Mujahideen entered the post and engaged the enemy in close fighting. After two hours of bloody hand-to-hand fighting, the post was captured. It paved the way for the fall of the garrison.
     Aziz still feels the bitterness of .Kuran campaign and describes it as the most difficult job ever he was assigned to, although earlier he had participated in attacks on Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons. Aziz and his unit attended several training courses each time a major operation ended.
     His unit was famous for courage, piety and obedience. His Mujahideen did not smoke cigarettes and read the Holy Quran regularly.
     Aziz's village, Qabizan, was a center of communist activity before the Jehad. Dastagir Panjshiri, a politburo member of the communist party, and Ahmad, the district secretary of the party, hailed from this village. Ahmad was such a powerful man that he could execute suspects without informing his superiors. Ahmad was known among his opponents as "the Barber" because his father was a barber. For Aziz to belong to this village was a drawback because the Mujahideen suspected volunteers from this village of being infiltrators.*
     Aziz was bom 30 years ago. His father, Rahim Dad, was a farmer. He is married and has one child.
     He learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village and at the age of seven became a student of Rukha School.
     He could not pay enough attention to his studies because he helped his father at daily chores. He left school in seventh grade and went to Khanabad, Kunduz, to

   Commander Abdul Aziz
 work in his brother's auto mechanic shop.
      hi 1979 the Mujahideen rose against Taraki's communist regime and liberated Panjshir. After two months they retreated to the upper part of die valley. After the Mujahideen retreat, Aziz returned from Kunduz to Panjshir and found that his former classmates in the 11th class were politically active in support of the Kabulregime.. They asked him to join the Communist Youth Organization in return to promotion without examination to the 11 class of school. Aziz refused their offer by making excuses so that they were not offended.
      Aziz watched the first Soviet's offensive of the valley in April 1980. The area in which he lived was controlled by the regime.
      After the Soviet troops' retreat, the Mujahideen influence spread quickly . Almost all the villages in Rukha came under control of the Mujahideen and the regime forces were confined to their garrison. After Abdul Wasai became the Mujahideen commander in Rukha, he turned them into a powerful force. Wasai, an outstanding man, possessed all the qualities of good guerilla leader. Aziz volunteered to become a Mujahid in the spring of 1980.
      He belonged to one of the first volunteer groups who formed the first mobile unit in Panjshir, commanded by Panah.
      At the end of 1980 fighting around the regime garrison in Rukha intensified. Abdul Wasai was martyred and Panah's group was assigned to assist the local Mujahideen. In a clash with regime forces 43 enemy troops were captured or killed. The Mujiahideen lost four men. Abdul Aziz participated in this fighting.
      After Panah became the commander of Chemal Wardah in Rukha, his unit was assigned outside the Panjshir Valley, hi each mission the unit was led by one of the valley's experienced commanders. Later, Gulzar Khan was appointed the commander of this first mobile unit.
      As the time passed, new mobile units were formed and the Mujahideen with bat-
 tlefield experience became their commanders. Aziz became the commander of the 5th Mobile Unit when it was formed in 1983.
     The unit then completed its three months of training in Panjshir during the cease-fire between the Mujahideen and the Soviet forces. The unit was instructed by Farhatullah from Kabul. He had graduated from the Jami'at Military Academy and was a man of many fine qualities. He knew the art of war well and treated his students kindly. He was martyred in action and will be remembered for a long time by the people whom he worked.
     Aziz's mobile unit was composed of 33 Mujahideen, each divided into three groups of ten. Each group was equipped with nine Kalashnikov assault rifles and One anti-tank rocket launcher. The unit also had one 7.62 mm PK machinegun to provide covering fire.
     Before the seventh Panjshir offensive was launched in the spring of 1984, several Mujahideen units from Panjshir were sent to Shamali, a plateau north of Kabul, to attack enemy convoys before they entered die valley. Aziz's unit was one of them.
     His unit launched three attacks on regime and Soviet convoys in the Noh Pula area of Qarabagh District, about 35 kilometers from Kabul. The attacks, launched with help of local Jami’at groups headed by Haji Shokoor, inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Aziz's unit suffered no casualties.
     After spending two months in Shamali the unit returned to Panjshir. Fighting against Soviet and regime forces continued all over the valley. The Mujahideen brought heavy pressure on Pushgoor, the uppermost enemy garrison, which was manned by regime troops.
     Aziz captured a strategic post defending Pushgoor and took 120 enemy soldiers prisoner.
     Abdul Aziz is respected among Mujahideen for fighting in such a way as to minimize losses in his unit. In this regard he explains, '1 study the target closely and consult with my deputy and the three group commanders about the best tactic to be used. Experience helps, and my Mujahideen are obedient. This is why Almighty God gives us the victory without casualties".
     After several months of fighting around Pushgoor his unit was given a two-month leave. Pushgoor garrison was captured in 1985, when his unit was still on leave. Aziz's unit then took part in fighting launched by the Soviets to eliminate the 400 regime prisoners captured there. Most of the 400 prisoners died as a result of the fighting, which continued for a week. The Soviets wanted dead those who had failed. The attack Was launched while negotiations for the exchange of prisoners were still in progress.
     After that, Aziz's unit went to Salang to attack enemy supply lines. Commander Panah was in charge of operations in
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 10, May 15, 1991, page 0
 Salang. His group took part in many operations. In one such operation 35 enemy soldiers were killed and eight tanks and trucks were set on fire. An Iranian journalist, Feriadoon Ganjoor, and a British journalist, Andy Skrzypkowiak, were present to film the attack.
     Aziz said Lieutenant Attaul Haq, Panah's deputy, did a marvelous job in the attacks. The Iranian journalist said Attaul Haq jumped on an enemy tank like a leopard attacking a sheep. Many people, including Commander Masood, admired the courage of Attaul Haq. He had been an officer in the regime army, then defected to Mujahideen in the Panjshir in 1982. He went to his native village in Salang to start Jehad against the infidels. He was later martyred by enemy agents.
     The last military action in which Aziz participated was the capture of a regime post at the mouth of the Panjshir Valley in Gulbahar in 1988. The death of his elder brother and his own health condition prevailed him from joining the SC army. Making use of his leave, he performed Hajj this year and is recuperating so that he can resume his military activities.
                    GREEN WAR
       The Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council distributed 12000 seedlings of fruit trees to people in Panjshir in March.
       The project, financed by Afghanaid, will help the people of Panjshir to produce fruit and restore the beauty of the valley which was damaged during the war.
       Most of trees in Panjshir (fayed due to destruction of irrigation channels or were cut by the Soviet and regime troops during several years of occupation of the valley.
       The seedlings were bought in Wardak Province and were smuggled through the regime-controlled areas to the valley by private contractors. The committee paid 1200 Afghani for each seedling delivered in Panjshir.
       Eng. Kabir, the head of the Reconstruction Committee of the SC said that the project is very useful but shortages of funds does not allow us to expand it to other areas.
       Abdul Qayum who supervised the implementation of the project said: 'Twelve thousands seedlings for a devastated valley of about 75 kilometers long is like a drop in a bucket. The local people were very happy but we could not give more than 40 seedling to each village."
       He said school and hospitals were also given seedlings.
       The Reconstruction Committee has also built a nursery in Panjshir to produce construction wood. The farm, 10 acres in size, is located in Rukha. Cuttings of for the nursery were brought from Ghorband and Andrab districts. The committee hopes that the farm will produces wood within five years
     Dear Sir,
     The conflict in the Gulf did not only create serious implications for the struggle in Afghanistan but was also signalling a fundamental change in the international political game, what Bush calls "the new world order" and what media in the United States in their typical way immediately abbreviated to NWO.
     Of course, Saddam had no right to occupy Kuwait and, of course, it was correct to push him out with whatever means it took. However, the main reason for the US to threw itself into the conflict was not a concern for the little man, for the cause of national independence. They came there for their own reasons, in the short perspective for the oil and in the long term because they saw an opportunity to change the balance of power in the Middle East in favor of their own strategic goals. The small countries of the world, in the Third world or elsewhere, had no choice than to side with the US against Iraq. Foremost, because It was right to do so, that it was in their interest to give Saddam a bloody nose and through that to create a warning example for others who might think along the same lines as he did. But at the same time, I think it is wise to look more closely at the situation which is evolving after Iraq's defeat and to raise ones voice when the US tries to remodel the Middle East map in accordance with its own interests. The old words, that the little man has no other real friends than God, the rifle and other little men, are still very much true, and that goes for nations as well as for individuals.
      As for Afghanistan, the conflict certainly had immediate effects like the widening rift between the parties and an even further diminished support for the resistance. The politicians in West as well as among the Arabs got something else to spend their resources on. I don't know what kind of picture which will emerge now after the war but one thing is definitely clear; the political game around the conflict showed above all and in a much more concrete and substantial way than before that the US is left alone as the only guy at the top of the hill. The Soviet Union no longer is able to act as a super power and that the question is how that will effect the US policy vis-i-vis Afghanistan and, unfortunately, I don't think it will be a change in a positive direction but rather a continuation, and now in a faster tempo, of the development we've already seen.
      The struggle in Afghanistan fitted into the policy of the United States not because it was a struggle for Islam and national independence but because it had a place in their contest with the other super power.
 Now, when the Soviet Union no longer is a serious opponent in the global battle, the priorities of the US will change.
     I made a few phone calls to the US, talked to some old friends and asked them if they knew anything about recent shifts and developments in US ptolicy vis-a-vis Afghanistan.
     There are strong opinions at the upper levels in the US administration who seem to be prepared to agree on a far reaching compromise with the Soviets on the Afghan issue. Their only demand is that Afghanistan in the future will be a buffer to stop spreading further south. To them it is then not primarily impxrtant who is running the country, i.e., it is a new game and old allegiances will not count. Added to that, I suppose, is their dislike for any kind of Islamic revivalism or fundamentalism.
     At the same time the p>eople at the relatively lower levels in State Department goes on as before. They expected an agreement with the Soviets when Shevardnadze came to Washington in November last year; something like negative symmetry, cease fire, transitional body without Najib and then elections, also without Najib but with the Watan party.
     As you know, nothing happened Shevardnadze sidestepped; discussed but didn't agree to anything; said that he had to go back to Moscow and consult. Those at State who met him got the impression that he was under pressure, pjossibly from the military. Then he went home and resigned.
     The question at State is that the Soviet attitude is getting tougher. They link it to different factors. First, that Gorbachev has distanced himself from the liberal camp and sided with the conservatives. Second, that the military to a larger extent than before has mixed itself into the making of politics and that they don't want Najib to go. It is also mentioned that the party hierarchy in Uzbekistan, who recently during the referendum delivered the great majority of the votes in the republic to Gorbachev, is strongly attached to Najib.
     The point is wether this eventually harder Soviet pxjsture will cause a reaction in the administration which will be favorable for the Mujahideen. I don't think so The opinion among foreign ptolicy makers in the US seems to be that there is no Soviet foreign for the moment; everything, also foreign policy, is decided with a domestic persp>ective; that is, to keep the union to gether at any cost. And the US is backing Gorbachev in this, quite simply because they believe that the alternative will be total collapse, chaos and violence which might sptread out over the borders of the Soviet
                                                                Tumtopage(8)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 10, May 15, 1991, page ©
Red Mawlawi praises Mujahideen's kindness
    A regime religious figure who surrendered to the Mujahideen in Khost has denied the report of his execution by the Mujahideen.
    BBC, quoting a Pakistani journalist, had reported that the pro regime Mawlawi Gula Jan was hanged by the Mujahideen in public for his anti Mujahideen propaganda before the fall of Khost.
    Talking to Mujahideen Radio, Gula Jan said not only he was alive but he and his family were treated by the Mujahideen kindly. He said: "Commander Haqqani treated me well and I did not expect such a good treatment from the Mujahideen."
    Gula Jan who still considers himself the head of Khost Ulama said that the regime officers and soldier did not adhere to the Islamic code conduct: they drank alcohol and committed other un-Islamic acts; they did not fast during Ramadhan and did not offer their obligatory prayers.
    He denied his indulgence in anti-Mujahideen propaganda claiming that
 he spent his time advising regime people to stick to Islamic values.
     The Kabul regime made the false report of Gula Jan's execution a propaganda event Memorial services were held in which ranking regime officers took part They lauded the services of Gula Jan and accused Mujahideen of killing a religious scholar who was a prisoners of war.
     Gula Jan was the chairman of "Ulama and Spiritual Leaders" of Khost This organization, financed by regime, indulges in anti-Mujahideen propaganda by issuing religious decrees in support of regime.
     Religious bodies in areas controlled by regime are supervised and financed by KHAD, the regime secret police, to wage propaganda war against the Mujahideen and paint an Islamic image for Najib and his ruling party. The financial assistance to these bodies comes from the so-called progressive Islamic countries. Iraq, for example, used to give aid to the Ministry of Religious Affairs of the Kabul regime.
Mujahideen open bank
   The first Mujahideen bank was opened by Commander Ahmed Shah Masood on April 22 in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar,
Hindukush News Agency reported.
   The bank will provide financial services to traders and its transactions will be based on Islamic laws , The branches of the bank will be opened soon in other parts of the country. Opening of the first Mujahideen bank will have an import effect on the economy of the areas ruled by the Mujahideen.
Labor Day celebrated
   May Day was celebrated in Kabul by holding indoor meetings while in the past, the communist regime organized marches in the streets. The green flags and banners had replaced red flags and banners. May Day proceedings started with the recitation of Holy Quran rather than playing the International anthem.
News from battlefields
                                                         From page (2)
Baba, Qala-i-Dudamast, Qala-i-Agha killing one womep and wounding three other civilian^.
Badakhshan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Basir Khalid shot down two regime helicopters near Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, with anti-aircraft guns on April 27. One of the helicopters crashed in Kohna Qala area from which the following items were recovered:
    •Kalashnikov rifles: 23 •Heavy machineguns: 2 •Ammunition of different types: 495 boxes
    The second helicopter crashed south of Kukcha River, close to the Soviet border.
    In retaliation, the regime forces attacked the Mujahideen position in Dashti-Darsak and Dasht-i-Bandagar. The attack .was repulsed by the Mujahideen killing and wounding 40 of die enemy soldiers. The Mujahideen seized nine Kalashnikov rifles. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
    The aerial bombing of the liberated areas around Faizabad continued when this report was filed. There has
been casualties among the civilians but details are not available.
Jawzjan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 15 enemy soldiers in Sar-i-Pul District on April 25 and seized the following arms and ammunition:
    •ZPU machinegun: 1
    • DShK machineguns: 2
    • Kalashnikov rifles: 20
    • RPG rocket launchers: 6
    • A large quantity of ammunition. Qazi Yasin, Jami'at Chief
Commander in Jawzjan, has reported that the Mujahideen lost seven men in the operation. Fighting continued when this report was filed.
Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured three posts in Shereen Tagab District inflicting heavy casualties on the enemy on April 18. Commander Sayyed Allauddin and one Mujahid were killed in this operation aid three Mujahideen sustained injuries (read obituaries on page 5).
                                         From page (7)
Union into Europe, the Middle East and South Asia. So much for principles. If there is going to be an end to the evil empire, then it should be properly orchestrated, not threatening the new world order or any other order.
                 Anderson
                 Stockholm
                 Sweden
                                                9{eCp us puBCisd
                                            ‘PCease send your donations to die fottounng account numBer:
                                               JTJ&VD Account 0^{p. 735-37 5{aBi6 ‘BanfiLtd ‘Iehkgd Bcda, Peshawar Pakistan