Vol 5, No 23                                  December 1, 1989
UN says Kabul regime violates human rights
Chitral blast claims life of 31 refugees
     32 people were killed in a blast in Batular's refugee camp in. Chitral on November 15. The camp was located in Garni Cheshma about 30 miles from Chitral.
     Investigation to determine the cause of the explosion is underway. Jami'at believes that the explosion was an act of sabotage planned and executed by a regime agent The fact that all those present at the explosion site were killed makes investigation difficult.
     The camp belonged to Jami’at, and the refugees killed were members of that organization. Among those killed were one Pakistani, a number of camp officers, four engineers from the Supervisory Council Reconstruction Committee and a group of horsemen involved in transportation of goods to Afghanistan.
     Prof. Rabbani and other high-ranking Jami'at officers visited Chitral to investigate the situation.
     The 'local population in Garm Cheshma were extremely cooperative. They helped in burial of the dead.
     The explosion took place at 4:00 pm. when all the people living close to the explosion sight had gathered in the mosque to say their prayers.
     The Kabul regime tried to blame differences among Mujahideen for the explosion.
     Read the obituaries on Page (7 ).
 Emergency extended
   The Kabul regime's President Najibullah on November 21 extended the state of emergency in the country for six months, because of continued activity by the Mujahideen, a regime official has announced.
   The state of emergency was first imposed for three months on February 18, three days after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
     A UN report, issued on November 16, states that the human rights situation in Afghanistan is a matter of
 concern.
     The report is compiled by UN special reporter Dr. Felix Ermacora, who has been doing this job since 1984.
     The most recent report of Dr. Ermacora came after his visit to Iran, Pakistan and Afghnistan. This was the first time he was allowed to visit the refugee camps in Iran.
     The report says that the Kabul regime tries its opponents by special military courts. The Kabul regime suspended all human rights last March when it imposed a state of emergency in the country.
     According to the UN report, the Kabul regime treats prisoners like animals. A large number of prisoners are kept in small rooms with not enough light, and prisoners are forced to stand for long hours. ICRC has not been allowed to visit prisoners awaiting trial.
     The UN reporter says that after the Soviet withdrawal, the number of civilians being injured has increased. The use of SCUD missiles and cluster bombs is one reason for the increase, Dr. Ermacora says.
     The UN report says that the num-
                                                                                            American scholar < media coverage
     An American writer has criticized the role of Western media in covering Afghanistan situation after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
     Ms. Estuart, who has written a book about the ten-year rule of King Amanullah called 'Fire in Afghanistan’, told her audience in a seminar held at Georgetown University that extensive efforts are made by US media to defame the Mujahideen. She said that an example of this type of activity was the accusation by a paper in New Yoric that CBS had telecasted fake films about Afghan war.
     She said that CBS has became a target of such a propaganda because it
 ber of refugees returning after the Soviet withdrawal is "insignificant". Fighting has forced more people to flee the war zones.
     Dr. Ermacora says that five million refugees living in Iran and Pakistan are not ready to return because of intensive fighting, the presence of land mines and the composition of the Kabul regime.
     The UN report says that living conditions for the refugees outside Afghanistan arc worsening because of a decrease in international assistance to the refugees.
     The report says that the situation of women and children in refugee camps in Pakistan is depressing. In Iran the situation is better, because most of the refugees live outside the camps.
     The report also accuses Mujahideen of ill-treatment of prisoners of war and their political opponents.
     The UN report asks all sides in the conflict to observe human rights and release prisoners. It also asks the international community to increase assistance to the refugees.
     The report predicts that if a political solution is not reached, the human rights situation will deteriorate further.
criticizes Western i of Afghan war
 gave extensive coverage to the Afghan war. She said the real target of these false accusation were the Mujahideen, not CBS.
     She accused US media of simple-mindedness because it was publicizing everything the Soviets and Kabul regime gave to them about Afghanistan.
     She said that some journalists think everything they see in Kabul was made by the communists.
     She said that the Mujahideen do not try to make use of the Western media the way they should, while the other hand the Soviets and the Kabul regime stage shows for photographers and cameramen.
*
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
                News
            From the battlefields
                                                     Kabul province
    Mujahideen under the command of Anwar Khan launched a major attack to close Kabul-Jalalabad highway on November 16. This operation coincided with the Mujahideen operation in Samar Khail. The enemy retaliated with heavy bombing of the Mujahideen positions.
    On November 17, a MIG fighter was shot down with a Stinger missile. The plane, which caught fire in the air, crashed between Jegdalik and Surkhrood district.
    The Kabul regime fired a SCUD missile on November 18, but caused no casualties. The missile landed in the Mia Khail area of Soroobi.
    On November 19, the Mujahideen brought a section of the road under their control. Dargaw post was evacuated by the enemy after two tanks were destroyed. Two Mujahideen were injured.
    On the same day, another enemy post was evacuated. Four Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
    On November 21, the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and two trucks with heavy-weapons fire. One Mujahid was injured.
    Regime warplanes heavily bombed the area. One of the bombs hit the enemy post of Gelam Jam and set it on fire. Enemy casualties were not immediately known.
    On November 22, the enemy attempted to resupply its post in Tangi-i-Abrashumi. One tank , one jeep and two trucks were set on fire. The enemy post of Dargaw was destroyed and an enemy ammunition dump in Soroobi was set on fire. Enemy casualties could not be estimated.
    On November 24, an enemy supply convoy going to Jalalabad came under Mujahideen attack. The convoy retreated after losing four trucks.
    On November 25, the Mujahideen
 destroyed one enemy tank.
     •The united forces of the mujahideen in Paghman, about 20 kilometers west of Kabul, have captured Fajak garrison, and enemy attempts to recapture the garrison have been foiled.
     Except Hakim Khail, Seyah Koh and Art posts, the rest of the district is undo1 Mujahideen control.
     •The Mujahideen from Jami’at, under the command of Anwar Khan, captured Baba Sahib post, located between Shakar Data and Paghman, on November 3. All the soldiers in the posts were captured along with their weapons. No details were available.
                                                   Herat province
    Commander Captain Ismael. Khan said in a radio messaage that 53 soldiers were killed, 65 others wounded and an ammunition dump set on fire, when the Mujahideen attacked the airport of Herat on November ! 1.
    In a separate attack by Mujahideen, launched on the same date against the army corps of Herat, 60 soldiers and militiamen of the communist regime were killed and 12 other injured.
    Mujahideen also ambushed a convoy of the communist regime along the Torghondi-Herat highway, destroyed several armored cars and killed 69 soldiers.
    The' Mujahideen captured 67 Kalashnikov rifles and 62 motorcycles.
    Four communists were killed when the Mujahideen attacked them with heavy weapons close to Behzad Hotel in the city of Herat on November 7.
    Three militiamen were killed and two injured when the Mujahideen of Ismael Khan attacked their post close to the city of Herat on November 4. The Mujahideen captured three Kalashnikov
 rifles.
    One tank and one jeep of the enemy were destroyed when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the armored regiment of the regime on November 5. The enemy suffered casualties, but no details were available.
    On November 4, the Mujahideen from Jami’at killed four militiamen in Guzara district and seized two Kalashnikov rifles.
    On November 13, the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy armored regiment in Herat, killing seven people, including a high-ranking officer of the regime. The enemy retaliated by heavy bombing of the area which resulted in the killing of one Mujahid and the wounding of two others.
    On November 18, the Mujahideen from Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the 7th division headquarters, killing six people.
    On the same day an enemy truck was set on fire in Lakhshak area. An unknown number of enemy soldiers were injured in the incident
    On November 18, the Mujahideen blocked Herat-Torghondi road and destroyed one truck. One officer and several soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles and three motorcycles.
   Nangarhar province
    The Mujahideen launched a united attack against the enemy posts in Samar Khail on November 14. Two posts were captured.
    Samar Khail garrison was liberated at the beginning of the current year, but was recaptured by the communists some months later.
    The Mujahideen have said that their attack on Samar Khail has limited objectives.
    Reports of heavy fighting in the North of Afghanistan is reaching Peshawar, the details of which will be published, God willing, in the coming issue of AFGHANews.
   Kandahar province
    The Mujahideen from Jami’at, under the command of Mullah Naqibullah, attacked the residence of the Kandahar governor. General Abdul Haq Olumi, killing five persons, including an officer, chi November 12.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
Mujahideen repair road in the valley of Worsaj
     Worsaj, Takhar- The truck, loaded with melons and some'twenty-five people seated atop them, is moving faster than ever before through the Worsaj gorge between Farkhar and Worsaj.
     The driver of the truck earns his money by transporting melons from the city of Taloqan to Worsaj and moving ill people to the "Yogh" hospital, located half way along the road. He is happy, and thanks Jami'at for the improvement of the road.
     The unpaved road between Worsaj and Farkhar is about 70 kilometers long, and is located in the northern province of Takhar. The road eventual-. ly joins the main highway to the city of Taloqan,
     The Farkhar valley's road was in very bad shape until recently. Jami'at decided to improve it "This road was built during Zahir Shah's time, some 30 years ago, when he used to pay annual visits to the area for deer hunting in Pew and fishing in the Farkhar river," says Sayed Abdullah, the director of road construction in the area, appointed by the Supervisory Council Reconstruction Committee.
     He adds, "More than 18 vehicles overturned on the road during Zahir
Shah's time, particularly when passing through the rocky, dangerous gorge, leaving many, dead behind." Now, he says, "drivers pass with big smiles on their faces, and occasionally bring a few melons for the workers on the road."
    The ordinary speed on the road, prior to its improvement, was 10 kilometers per hour. Now, vehicles do not overturn anymore, and they can drive up to SO kilometer per hour passing through the gorge.
    In January of this year, the Reconstruction Committee decided upon the improvement of the Worsaj-Farkhar road, which will be completed in a few months. Once completed, one can enjoy many benefits from it, such as less time getting from area to the other, less gasoline spent, and cars' longer lives.
    Improvement of already existing roads and opening of new roads has been one of Jami'at's major reconstruction efforts, carried out with the plans of the Council's Reconstruction Committee. Hundreds of kilometers of roads have been built and more will be completed before snow covers the area this coming winter.
                                                                                              Reconstruction of Afghanistan faces shortage of funds
    The UN coordinator of humanitarian assistance for Afghans has complained of insufficient funds to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
    Prince Sadruddin Agh Khan told reporters in New York that the UN relief workers have the best access in Afghanistan but they had lacked funds to do their job.
    Due to the war situation in the country, five million refugees are reluctant to go back to Afghanistan.
    It seems that the Prince believes that enough material assistance in the country, will encourage the return of the refugees and pave the way for a political settlement
    Prince Sadruddin sent a convoy of food to the government-controlled areas without informing the resistance. This incident has annoyed the Mujahideen and they have even accused his actions of being "biased toward the regime".
    Prince Sadruddin also started a much-publicized de-mining program, but no practical step has been taken yet to clear the mine fields.
Cordovez honored
    Pakistan's Ambassador to the United Nations has given a high Pakistani civilian award to Mr. Diego Cordovez, a former UN Under-Secretary-General.
    The award of Hilal-i-Pakistan was conferred by the President of Pakistan last year on Mr. Cordovez who hammered out the Geneva accords on Afghanistan after a six-year effort
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
                                                                                                       fa jI J^
 A good year is determined by its spring.
Meaning: As goes the spring, so goes the year.
Usage: Character and quality show up early.
                                                         *
                                                                                                                              o'

Whatever you sow you reap.
Meaning: A person gets his just deserts.
                                                       *
       xJb jXJ jj*
There is path to the top of even the highest mountains.
Meaning: (a) God is more
          powerful than the proudest of persons.
                                               (b) Where there is will there is a way.

AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
  Editorial
  Arms embargo will weaken Mujahideen of Afghanistan
    The Mujahideen want to overthrow the Kabul regime and establish in its place a representative government acceptable by the majority of Afghans. This aim will only be achieved when the resistance is militarily strong.
    Developments after the Soviet troops withdrawal showed that the Mujahideen, in order to gain the upper hand in fighting against the Soviet-backed regime, need to re-organize themselves, evolve a workable military and political strategy, unite their ranks and get enough arms and ammunitions to fight an offensive war.
    The Mujahideen have been receiving military assistance from abroad to fight the Soviets and will need to receive more to deal with the communist regime.
    Mujahideen leaders and field commanders have been asking for more arms and ammunition to continue fighting.
    The new position of Hezb Islami leader, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, that sending of weapons to both sides of the conflict should stop, is strange. There has been no military development to justify this shift of policy.
    The question of an arms embargo of both sides in the conflict was raised by US before signing of die Geneva accords. The Soviet Union rejected the offer.
    When the Soviet troops left, they handed over military installations and great quantities of arms and ammunitions to Kabul regime.
    After the withdrawal they continued to provide more weapons and ammunition: The regime now has more weapons than it can use.
    When there was no room for sending more weapons, the Soviet Union proposed an arms embargo to the two sides of the conflict. The Mujahideen and their supporters rejected the offer, on the grounds that it would put the Mujahideen in a weak position vis-a-vis the communist forces.
    The statement of the Hezb leader that, if Soviets stop sending arms to the Kabul regime, he will make sure that no arms reaches the Mujahideen, raise many questions about the preventive mechanism he has in mind.
    It seems that rivalries with other Mujahideen parties has given shape to this proposal. Hezb has been receiving more military assistance than other parties, and an arms embargo will leave Hezb better-armed than other groups in the resistance.
    The argument that foreign assistance paves the way for interference of foreigners is not a new thing, because foreign support to the Mujahideen started immediately after the Soviet invasion.
    The major problem to the resistance is getting rid of the illegal regime of Dr. Najibullah. An arms embargo will put the regime in a better position vis-a-vis the resistance forces.
    If there is room for complaint about shortages and the way supplies are being distributed, other parties of the resistance have more reason than Hezb. Party interests must be made subordinate to the interests of Afghanistan.
    Jami'at believes that a honorable solution to the problems of Afghanistan is only possible when the Mujahideen are militarily strong. Without supplies of arms and ammunition, the Mujahideen will face tremendous difficulties.
                                       From the Diary of Jehad
                                             From page (6)
   Gulbahar Textile Mills is controlled by Hezb. No one remember any major fighting between Hezb and the regime forces to cause its liberation. Local people said Hezb got control of the Mills through a secret deal with the Kabul regime. The Hezb commander in the area, Ustad Farid, signed an agreement with the regime at the beginning of the year, based on which the regime evacuated its forces and Hezb took control of it Gulbuddin Hikmatyar visited the mills during his recent visit to Shamali.
   Jami'at people said that they were also contacted by the officials from the Kabul regime, and were offered a deal concerning the delivery of the textile mills which they rejected.
   Our return trip to Pakistan was quick. I had breakfast in Rukha, and lunch in Peshawar on the sixth day of my journey. This was possible because part of the trip was covered by jeep. Saranwal Mahmood lent us his jeep to take us to Paryan. His car was in good shape, but his driver was a adventurer who drove the jeep on a mountainous road with a failed bakes.
   Twice we nearly fell into the river when he almost lost control of his brakeless jeep. The agony of walking kept us seated in the jeep. When we reached the end of the road, I begged him to be careful on the way back. He promised do so, but I was not sure.
 AIG sends team to explore mines
    The Ministry of Mines and Industries of the AIG has begun its practical work by sending a team of experts to survey coal mines in the country, MEDIA reported.
    Eshan Jan Areef, the Minister of Mines and Industries, said that similar teams will be sent to survey other minerals like table salt and lapiz lazuli.
    The ministry also has prepared the ground for establishing light industries to provide work for die refugees.
    Coal, table salt and lapiz lazuli mines are located in the liberated areas of Afghanistan.
                                                          ***
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
                                   Commander Janan
 Short News
    Commander Janan, , 30, was born in the village of Speen Zeyarat of Dand district, Kandahar province.. His father, .Malang Jan an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a farmer.
    Commander Janan studied Holy Quran in mosque for a short time, then joined his father and worked as a farmer until the communist regime took pow-
   Commander Baz Mohammad, 31, was born in the village of Zerreh Per aha of Shahwali Kot district, Kandahar . province.
   His father was a poor peasant of the Alkozai Pushtoon tribe. Baz Mohammad studied up to 8th grade in Shahwali Kot school.
    Commander Abdul Haleem, 46, was born in Tughra village of Maroof district, Kandahar province.
    His father Khan Mohammad an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a fanner. Abdul Haleem learned to read the Holy Quran in the mosque and then joined his father to help him on his .small piece of land.
    He joined Mullah Naqeeb in 1979, worked as a Mujahid with him and in late 1979 formed his own small group
    Commander Mohammad Omar Jan, 46, was born in Terghaka village of Arghistan district, Kandahar province.
    His father, Haji Abdul Rahman a Popalzai Pushtoon, had his own animal husbandry farm.
    Omar Jan bought some weapons formed his group of 40 men and established his base in the lower mountains
     Commander Habibullah, 56, was born in Kadonee village of Speen Boldak district, Kandahar province.
     His father was a fanner from Noorzoy tribe. Habibullah was helping his father on his small piece of land until the Russians invaded Afghanistan. He joined the Mujahideen with Jami'at in 1981.
er. He started to work with Commander Mullah Naqeeb as a Mujahid and later' in 1981, he formed his own group. Although he has a small group of 35 Mujahideen, he is an effective fighter who cooperate with other Mujahideen.
     He participated in the joint operation of the Mujahideen against the Soviets in the summer of 1982. He is single.
     Baz Mohammad joined Mullah Naqeeb in 1981 and in 1982 formed his own group of 18 people and established his base in Shahwali Kot.
     He has a small group and operates jointly with other major groups against the enemy forces in the area. He is married.
and established his base in Maroof district
     He has participated in many operations against the enemy along with other major groups in his area. The largest operation he participated in was in the summer of 1987 in which the enemy * lost 30 soldiers and six Mujahideen were killed.
     He is married and has four children.
 of Arghistan. In the latter stage of 1983 he joined Jami'at and start to work with Mullah Naqeeb.
     Commander Mohammad Omar is generous person and has given help to needy Mujahideen many of whom belong to other groups.
     He is married and has eight children.
     Being oldest of the Mujahideen, he became first group commander and later district commander.
     He contacted Mullah Naqeeb, Jami’at major commandeer in Kandahar, and became part of his organization. He is married and has ten children.
     Arghandab is the stronghold of the Mujahideen from Jami'at where Mullah Naqeebullah hails from.
                                               Women's delegation attends Sudan moot
    A two-member delegation of the Muslim Sisters Organization of Afghanistan participated in an international seminar which opened in Khartoum, Sudan, on November 8.
    The purpose of the seminar was to form an International Muslim Women's Organization.
    The Afghan delegation was led by Mrs. Barlyan, the deputy principle of Ummohatul-Momineen girls high school in Peshawar.
    The conference has accepted the Muslim Sisters Organization as a member of the International Islamic Women's Organization.
  New governor picked for Kunar
    Muhammad Ali Rahmani,39, a veteran of the Islamic Movement, has been appointed Governor of Kunar province.
    He replaces Maulawi Ghulam Rabbani, who became an advisor to the Ministry of Reconstruction.
    Muhammad Ali joined the Islamic Movement as a' student of the Faculty of Science of Kabul University. He was involved in anti-Daud activities in 1975 and was imprisoned for two years.
    He has served as a commander of Jami'at in Kunar since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                                               Refugees from Laghman arrive in Peshawar
    More than 250 new refugee families from Laghman province have crossed into Pakistan recently, to avoid indiscriminate bombing by the regime and shortages of essential commodities, MIDIA reported.
    A refugee elder, Malik Faiz Mohammad, describing the conditions under which the refugees left their home, said that continuous aerial and ground bombardments did not allow the people to live normally.
    The acute shortages of food and fuel multiplied their problems, he added. All the refugees came from Alingar district of Laghman.
    The report says that the fresh refugees need emergency support. More than five million Afghan refugees live in Pakistan and Iran. Despite the regime’s claims of refugees returning, no significant number has returned since the Soviet troop withdrawal.
Comr.Baz Mohammad
Comr. Abdul Haleem
Comr. Mohammad Omar Jan
Commander Habibullah
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page ©
  From the Diary of Jehad    (Last part)
     Economic considerations keep rival groups living in peace
    Agriculture is the base of the economy in the valley. Due to shortages of food and high prices, people in the valley have tried to exploit every piece of land. Lack of enough oxen for plowing, the absence of farm equipment and destruction of irrigation channels were the problems the people faced.
    The. Reconstruction Committee had distributed some oxen to the farmers and had bought a few tractors to help them. As a result of these efforts the people in the valley had grown part of their yearly food. Cultivation of vegetables has become common, even in those areas where traditionally people did not grow them. When we arrived Paryan our host welcomed us with a plate of locally produced cucumbers. In the past people in Paryan did not grow vegetables of any kind.
    With the help of some agricultural experts, a farm was created in Rukha to experiment with growing different types of high-yield crops and vegetables.
    The food situation was not very bad. The new harvest had relieved the burden. But high food prices had kept most of the settlers from getting all they needed.
Fighting along the Salang highway worsened the situation, by pushing the prices higher. The Kabul regime was taking measures to prevent free passage of food from the north to the valley.
    Cultivation of vegetables had given variety and taste to the food in the valley. The introduction of milk cows and goats had improved the situation further. People had started to grow beans, which are a rich source of protein.
    It will be at least several years before Panjshir can produce enough fruit for its people, because most of the fruit trees were either cut by the Soviets or had died due to lack of water during the years of occupation.
    A hospital was working in Rukha, with several clinics in other parts of the valley. The defection of, some experienced surgeons and doctors to the Mujahideen had helped the hospital.
By: Muhammad Es'haq
 Dr.Walid's role in establishing the hospital has been very important Patients from different areas are admitted in the hospital. The hospital and its clinics are supported by the relief organization in Peshawar. They provide the hospital with medicine, equipment and salary for its personnel. The hospital is housed in a building built by the Russians during the occupation. After repairs it was turned into a hospital. The building has been electrified with petrol generators, and the doctors have a good relationship with the people.
 Schools have been opened in the valley. Some experienced educators have taken charge of educational activities. There are some proper school buildings in the valley but the need for expansion of the old buildings and building new ones is felL
     Besides primary schools, Madrasas (religious schools) have also opened in the valley. At the moment four madrasas are open, in four regions of the valley, in which students are taught religious subjects. Religious scholars had an indifferent attitude towards politics in the past, but the war has changed their views. From'talking to the administrator of the Madrasas, who is a traditional religious teacher, I understood that he wanted a more systematic education system helped by the Mujahideen organization. In the past, madrasas were supported by private contributions, while schools were run by the government. Repairs of the madrasas in Safidcheer and Rukha, at the expense of the Mujahideen, was under way.
     I wanted to attend the Friday prayer in the central mosque in Rukha. The Imam (person who lead the congregation prayer) was Maulawi Mohammad Wazir who has served in this post for more than 30 years. He is about 85 years old. He spent two years in the notorious Pul-i-Chaikhi prison and was released only last year. Standing among the people and listening to recitation of the old Imam made me feel as if I were a schoolboy again, and the country were not at war. A moment later I saw the marks of the bullets in the wall in front of me, which brought me back to the real world.
     After a day in Rukha, I decided to go to Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of
the Panjshir valley, to meet some friends and observe the situation there. Five kilometers inside the valley, the Mujahideen have established a check-post, where security men search the buses and trucks, coming to or leaving the valley.
     Each person leaving the valley must have a pass letter from his village chief. Those who enter are recognized by the duty officers. This step is necessary to minimize the risk of infiltration by enemy agents.
We were taken to Gulbahar by one of Commander Masootfs intelligence officers. I was surprised by the. long row of newly built shops along both sides of the road. Gulbahar is a junction whore the road to Panjshir joins with the road to Kohistan, Nejrab and Tagab. It is about 15 kilometers from Jabulseraj, through which the famous Salang highway passes.
     Before the war, Gulbahar was famous for its fresh air and cold water, and attracted many holiday-makers from the capital, about 60 kilometers away. The famous Gulbahar park is situated at the junction of the Shutul and Panjshir rivers, Gulbahar was also famous for its modem textile mills, which had provided work for thousands of local people. An irrigation channel had been built with the help of the Chinese to irrigate farms and vineyards cm the Shamali plateau.
     During the years of occupation, Gulbahar has witnessed intensive fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviet forces. The Soviets had stationed their troops in Gulbahar until they left Afghanistan. After the Soviet with' drawal the town was liberated after the communist forces woe defeated by Jami'at Mujahideen.
     The delicious Kabab of Gulbahar cannot be forgotten easily. The sky was clear, the weather was mild and peace prevailed in the town. Trade between Gulbahar and Kohistan district, controlled by Hezb (Hikmatyar), was normal. Problems between Hezb and Jami'at in Takhar had not affected the business between the two sections, separated by the Panjshir river. The local factors and common interests of people emphasize the need for such cooperations and limit the scope of party-agitated misunderstandings.
                                                                                                                              Turn to page (4)
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23, December 1,1989, page 0
   Obituaries
Abdul Basir Karimi
    Abdul Basir Karimi was born 38 years ago in Jainal Agha town, Kohistan- district of kapisa province.
    After completing primary school in Kohistan he continued his studies in Kabul and in Delhi in the field of post communication.
    He worked in the ministry of post and communication for eight years. He joined Commander Masood in 1981
     Ghulam Rasool, son of Khuda Dost, was bom in Abdullah Khail village of Dara sub-district in Panjshir 40 years ago. He studied primary school in Dara and chose to become a farmer.
     When he was working as the caretaker of a building in Kabul, the communist coup took place. He started to cooperate with the Mujahideen urban
    Ghulam Muhammad, son of Muhammad Nadir, was bom 25 years ago in Rukha town of Panjshir.
    His family transferred to Kabul, and Ghulam Muhammad entered Amani high-school. When the communist coup took place, he started to cooperate with the urban cells of the Mujahideen affiliated to Jami'at
    In 1982, he was arrested and was sentenced to two years in prison. After he was released he came to Peshawar for medical treatment. After a while he went inside and was assigned as the cameraman of the Supervisory Council.
    Because of this job, the
    Commander Muhammad Rasool was bom in Khawak village in the upper part of Panjshir 34 years ago. He went to the local Mosque school to learn the basics of Islam. He could not go to school because there was no school in the area where he lived.
    He lived by farming and keeping
    Tajuddin s/o Maulwi Fakhruddin was bom in Tarisht village of Worsaj 36 years ago.
    After completing the ninth grade in Taloqan, he went to the military school in Kabul in 1975. He became a Lieutenant and was posted in Jalalabad.
    He joined the Mujahideen after the communist coup of 1978. He had par-
 and worked for three years id Shamali area.
     In 1984, he came to Peshawar and worked in the Kapisa provincial office of Jami'at. He was appointed as die financial head of the logistics cell of the ■Supervisory Council last year.
     He was killed in Gann Cheshma explosion while he was leading congregation prayers. He has left behind six
 cells. He was arrested and was sentenced to five years in prison. When he was released, he went to Panjshir and worked as the communications officer of the Mujahideen in Dara valley.
     Ghulam Rasool was transferred to Chitral to help in logistic operations last Spring. He was killed in the Garm Cheshma blast.
 Mujahideen started to Call him "Journalist" instead of calling him by his name. After some time he was transferred to the wireless communication section, and last spring came to Pakistan with his wireless set to help the logistics operation.
     Ghulam Muhammad was an extremely sociable person and had earned the admiration of a lot of people.
     Some days before he was killed, he sent a message to Masood informing him that his team had finished their work and were returning.
     He could not make the trip because he was martyred in the explosion of November 15 in Garm Cheshma.
 animals. At age of 24, he joined the first group of Mujahideen. He served as the commander of Safidcheer for two years. At the beginning of the current year, he was transferred to the logistics branch of the Supervisory Council.
     He was martyred in the Garm Cheshma explosion.
ticipated in fighting against the communist regime in Worsaj, Faikhar and in Taloqan in 1979.
     When die Supervisory Council formed die Mamie army, Tajuddin became involved. He was appointed a member of die logistics cell recenly -and was killed in the blast of November 15.
  Eng. Abdullah
   Engineer Abdullah s/o Muhammad EsTiaq was bom in Kabul. He graduated from the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University in 1983.
   He started to work in the ministry of water and power. He became an antiregime activist and was arrested and sentenced to 16 years in jail. After four years he was released. He came to Pakistan in 1988, and joined the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He was on his way to Afghanistan to build the first power plant in the liberated areas controlled by the Supervisory Council, when he fell victim to the Garm Cheshma explosion and was martyred.
 Eng. Jan Mohammad
   Engineer Jan Mohammad Durani s/o Noor Muhammad was born 30 years ago in Kabul.
   After graduating from military high school,'he entered Polytechnic College, of Kabul University. After graduation in 1985, he started to work in the Ministry of the Defense of the regime. In 1988 he came to Peshawar and joined the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He was martyred in the Garm Cheshma incident.
   Abdul Qayum
   Abdul Qayum s/o Muhammad Seddiq was bom 25 years ago in Bazrak town of Panjshir. After high school he studied Kabul Technical school and became a water pump mechanic.
   He was part of the team of the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council's engineers when he was killed in Garm Cheshma on November 15.
                                       Nasrullah
   Nasrullah s/o Ghulam Hazrat was bom in Bazarak 24 years ago. He studied secondary school in Malaspa and became a mujahid in 1983.
   He was working as the cameraman of the Reconstruction Committee team. He was killed in Garm Cheshma blast.
                                   The 31 refugees who were killed in the Chitral explosion are buried in Garm Cheshma
         sons.
Ghulam Rasool
Ghulam Muhammad
Comer. Muhammad Rasool
Zabet Tajuddin
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 23,
December 1,1989, page ©
Most Mujahideen leaders see problems in polling
     Sayyed Ahmad Gailani, the elections commissioner of the AIG, told reporters in Islamabad on November 22 that elections for a Shoora will be held by April 1990.
     He did not disclose the procedure for casting votes but said that every Muslim Afghan above the age of 25 can contest, and every Afghan above the age of 16 can vote.
     Since elections will be held in Afghanistan, refugees camps in Iran and Pakistan and other countries, it must be a complex process requiring a huge administrative body.
     Two parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) and NTFA, insist on elections to endorse the interim government, but others see practical difficulties on the way of holding polls.
     In order to hold elections in the refugee camps in Iran, the government of Iran must cooperate. This cooperation depends largely on agreement between Iran-based and Pakistan Mujahideen parties on how to hold elections.
     Some parties are afraid that due to the war, holding elections may not be possible inside the country, and elections will be only held in the refugee
     The deputy education minister of the Kabul regime sought political asylum from French government at the beginning of November.
     Abdul Hamid Mubariz had earlier served as the head of the regime news agency, Bakhtar, and as.governor in several provinces.
     He was participating in the UNESCO annual meeting when he decided not to return to Afghanistan.
     In an interview with the BBC he said that the reason for his defection was pressure exerted by the ruling party on non-party intellectuals.
     Regarding the situation in Afghanistan, he said that the Kabul regime was besieged in some cities. The rest of the country was controlled by the Mujahideen. He added that the situation was not in their favor because the people did not want the regime.
     Mr. Mubariz stressed the need for unity among all the resistance groups.
     He emphasized the need for concerted propaganda efforts to counter disin-
 camps. Thus a truly representative body will not emerge.
     Furthermore, talk about elections and their arrangement has taken most of the time of the Mujahideen leaders, and they are not payifig necessary attention towards the military aspects of the struggle.
     In an interview with MIDIA Prof. Rabbani said it was the decision of the Mujahideen organizations as well as the AIG to hold elections. "In our view, when we have elections they should be held all over the country, and all the Afghan Muslim people should have the opportunity to participate in them."
     He added that although he was in favor of elections, he did not believe the conditions were right for doing so at the present He mentioned the heavy air and rocket bombardments by the enemy, the Mujahideen's preoccupation with fighting the regime, and lack of strong administration as some factors which pose problems for holding elections. "Elections in one part of Afghanistan, or only among the refugees, can never represent the whole nation, therefore they are absolutely unacceptable," the Jami’at leader said
 formation spread by the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime regarding the situation in Afghanistan.
     Hamid Mubariz has been allowed to stay in France.
     After General Zarifs defection, Mubariz is the highest-ranking regime official to defected in recent months.
 AIG, Shia parties meet in peshawar
     A delegation of Iran-based Mujahideen headed by Mohammed Karim Khalili has reached Peshawar to discuss the issue of their joining the interim government.
     In an interview with the daily Muslim, Khalili said that his delegation will not stress implementation of the accord reached between the two sides before convening the consultative Shoora last February. According to that agreement, seven out of the 28 seats in the cabinet of the interim government would have been given to the Iran-based parties.
     Khalili said that the issue of holding elections for a new Shoora one. year after the formation of the AIG will be discussed.
     He stated that he was not against holding elections, but that conditions were not conductive to holding elections at this stage.
     He rejected the impression that Iran's Afghan policy had changed. He said ban's call for a broad-based government did not include Najib's regime.
     He added that even if Iran had asked for such a thing", the Iran-based Mujahideen would have rejected it.
     Shoora-i-Ittifaq joined the coalition of Iran-based parties on October 25, raising the number of parties in the Coalition to 9.
     Shoora-i-Ittifaq Islami, led by Ayatollah Behishti, has been active since the communist coup of 1978. It developed problems with two radical Shia parties, Nasre and Sepah, and because of that it remained out of the coalition of Iran-based Mujahideen parties.
     Shoora-i-Ittifaq is a traditional Shia party which has good relations with the Pakistan-based Mujahideen parties.
   *
                                 Please help us publish AFGHANews!
   Dear reader.
   We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
   If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number:
   JEHAD
   Account No. 735-37
   Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
   (Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan
Defecting deputy minister says Afghan people oppose PDPA
—  —- AFGHANews Vol 5, No24, December 15,1989, page @
Vol 5, No 24K<iB admits/ / / / S/ / / / / y/ / / / / / / / / / '' / / / / / / s . f / / / / / / / / / / / /Soviet secret police say the Mujahideen have been trying to destablize the Central Asian Republics.The Chief of Tajikistan's KGB al leged in a press conference that the Afghan Mujahideen tried to establishx)rder bases, with the help of some for eign forces, for the purpose of desta- blizing the Soviet system and constitution.He claimed a group of these people who tried to recruit local people were discovered. He added that their efforts to smuggle arms to the Soviet Union had been discovered too.The people in Central Asia are Muslims and have ethnic connections with people in Afghanistan.When the Russians occupied Central Asia , the people fought for 12 long years to protect their freedom and religion. They were subdued due to lack of support from outside. The Mujahideen from Central Asia were called Basmachis by the Soviets. History was repeated when the Soviets used the same name for Afghan Mujahideen at the beginning of the invasion.The invasion of Afghanistan brought soldiers from Central Asia in contact with Afghans. Some of these soldiers defected and others sympathized with the Mujahideen.The Afghan struggle against a su perpower has given the Muslims in the Soviet Union a sense of confidence. Muslims in Central Asia have started a campaign for greater national and relig ious freedoms.The recent KGB press conference could be an attempt to show that there is a foreign hand behind the ethnic un rest in Central Asia.If the Soviet leaders succeed in convincing the world and Soviet people about involvement of a "foreign hand",they could deal harshly with the na tionalist and Islamist movementDecember 15, 1989 Prof. Mujaddidi meetsprior to Malta summitThe President of the Afghan A US National Security Council Interim Government, Profl official said in Washington that no Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, discussed the situation in Afghanistan with President George Bush a few days before the Malta summit.Dr. Najibullah Lafraie, the Information Minister of the AIG, and Engineer Ahmad Shah, the Communication Minister, were also present during the meeting, which was held on November 27.In the 30-minute meeting, held in the White House, President Mujaddidi informed the US president of the situa tion in Afghanistan.President Bush reaffirmed US sup port for the Afghans' struggle to achieve self-determination. He hoped that a political solution is found for the solution of the Afghan conflictMr. Bush called on the Mujahideen leader to broaden the base of the interim government to make it an effective or ganization meeting the needs of the Afghan people.progress was made cm Afghanistan at the Malta summit.The present stalemate on the bat tlefield has made the Soviets less flexi ble on the issue of future role for the Kabul regime.Before the beginning of the sum mit, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto sent a letter to President Bush asking him to discuss the Afghan situation with Gorbachev.A high-ranking Pakistani delega tion also had gone to Washington to brief the US officials about the situa tion in Afghanistan before the summitThe head of the Kabul regime, Najibullah, wrote letters to Bush and Gorbachev* asking them to discuss the Afghan situation and implementation of the Geneva accords,Peter Tomson, the UN Special Envoy to the Afghan Resistance, is currently visiting Pakistan to inform Mujahideen leaders about the summit.After the meeting. Prof. Mujaddiditold the reporters that the Mujahideen,needed effective anti-aircraft weapons Ipdeal with enemy high altitude bombers.He said that the Soviets were still in Shevardnadze.volved in combat activities in Afghanistan. Their advisors help the Kabul troops and their warplanes bomb the northern parts of Afghanistan, Prof. Mujaddidi elaborated.He hoped the US president would persuade the Soviet president in their meeting off Malta to stop helping theThe meeting near Rome was ar ranged by the Italian government. Shevardnadze described his meeting with the ex-king as interesting and positiveA spokesman for the ex-king said that the Soviet side had asked for the 30-minute meeting. It is believed that the role of ex-king in bringing peace was discussed in the meeting. Further details are not available.Prof. Mujaddidi, commenting on the meeting, said the ex-king should support the interim governmentThis was not the king's first meet ing with Russians. Last year he met Yuli Vorontsov, the then USSR am-T u m t o p a g e ( 4 )
v ■ .     '' ■ ■ ' V
                    News
    From the battlefields _________ • •-
    Kunduz province
    Kabul regime forces attacked Goor Taipa to establish security posts in the area on November 19.
    Nineteen enemy soldiers were captured, 100 killed and 80 wounded. The enemy lost 14 trucks and two tanks. Regime forces failed to establish themselves in the area.
    The united forces of the Mujahideen have been fighting under the command of Arif Khan, Jami'at commands in Kunduz.
    Nine Mujahideen, including Muhammad Nasir, Commander Arifs brother, were killed and 25 Mujahideen were wounded.
    On November 25, the Mujahideen shot down an enemy jet with a ZPU machine gun.
    Faryab province
    Two jeeps and one communication vehicle were destroyed and 15 enemy soldiers were killed when an enemy supply convoy, on its way to Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, was ambushed by Mujahideen from Jami'at in Sheerin Tagab district on November 21.
    The Mujahideen captured two enemy officers and seized three guns and one wireless set
    The Mujahideen have shot down three enemy helicopters with Stinger missiles near the city of Maimana. Fighting around the city continues.
                                               Balkh province
    Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Moalim Atta have liberated the Ulang and Balabad villages in Hajdah Nahr district. The Mujahideen captured 20 soldiers.
     Two Mujahideen were killed and five Mujahideen, including a junior commander were wounded.
     On November 20, the Mujahideen destroyed 15 enemy post in Khairabad area, east of Daulatabad district The Mujahideen captured 35 soldiers and seized one tank, one mortar, one PK machine gun, one rocket launcher and 50 Kalashnikov rifles.
     An unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The Miijhideen have fired rockets into the Dehdadi airport and headquarters of the regime's 18th division, setting some targets on fire.
     The Mujahideen have captured an enemy post in the Bahauddin area of Balkh, seizing 80 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machine gun. The Mujahideen have, also captured one Goryunov machine gun and one rocket launcher from the Khairabad area.
     Mazari-i-Sharif is a well-protected city, where SCUD missile launch sites are located. Targets around Kabul have been hit from Mazar. Mazar airport has a large number of warplanes and a pilot training school. Mazar is also used as the supply center for the regime. Goods brought from the Soviet Union are stored there before sent to other destinations.
     Baghlan province
     Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Adbul Hai Haqjo attacked the enemy position at Tolay Keran, capturing three posts on December 5th. Eleven soldiers were killed and ten were captured.
     Commander Dur Muhammad and two Mujahideen were also killed in the operation. The Mujahideen have captured some weapons and ammunition. The area attacked is close to the old city of Baghlan.
     The Mujahideen shot down a MiG-27 jet fighter with a Stinger missile when it was bombing the Hasantal area
 of Baghlan.
    Takhar province
    The Mujahideen have attacked enemy positions in Khwaja Ghar district with heavy weapons, killing and wounding 30 soldiers. Khwaja Ghar came under enemy control two months ago.
    Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Piram Qul attacked the militia forces of Mirza Abdur Rahim in Rustaq on December 7. No details are available.
    Rustaq. a district on the Soviet border, is partially controlled by militias belonging to the SAZA faction of the communist regime in Kabul.
                                               Paktia province
    Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani reported that his Mujahideen shot down an enemy transport plane near Khost on December 3.
                                             Ningarhar province
      \
    A senior commander of Hezb Islami (Khalis) was killed by a land mine in Samarkhail area during fighting on November 2. On the same day the Mujahideen shot down a regime jet.
    A Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) commander died in Peshawar on December 5 while he was being treated for injuries caused by a i artillery shell.
    The two commanders had played a key role in fighting around Jalalabad.
                                           Arms dealer faces trial
    An arm smuggler, who attempted to buy a wire-guided Soviet rocket and take it out of Afghanistan was captured in the Panjshir valley one month ago.
    The arm dealer wanted to buy the captured rocket at a price of 220,000 Afghani and smuggle to Pakistan.
    This wire-guidetf rocked was used by the Soviet army against the Mujahideen. The arm dealer who is a residence of Kapisa province, had said that he was trying to take weapons to Pakistan to sell to some foreigners interested in acquiring this weapon.
     The Council does not allow any dealing of aims in its territory. Cheap price of weapons in the North has attracted the attention of arm dealers.
     The dealer will tried in a court and if found guilty will be sentenced to jail.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No24, December 15,1989, page©
MUJAHIDEEN LOSE SUPPORTER
                          Shaikh Abdullah Ezam killed by bomb blast in Peshawar
     Dr. Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar who strongly supported the Afghan Mujahideen, was killed in a bomb explosion along with his two sons in Peshawar on November 24.
     He was on his way to a mosque when a powerful bomb, detonated by a remote-control device, killed him and his two sons, Muhammad, 24, and Ibrahim,13.
     Abdullah Ezam was a Palestinian who supported the Afghan cause by pen and financial aid.
     He was bom in 1941 in Palestine, and after completing primary school there went to the Damascus Faculty of Islamic Law. In 1967, he went to A1 Azhar University and in 1973 got his Ph.D. in Islamic jurisprudence.
     From 1973 till 1980, he taught on the Islamic Faculty of Jordan University, and in 1981 became a professor of Malik Abdul Aziz University in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
     Since he was eager to be close to the Mujahideen who fought Jehad against the Godless communists, he became a teacher at the International Islamic University in Islamabad.
     He wrote many books and articles to defend the Mujahideen cause. His books and articles played a vital role in introducing their struggle to Muslims throughout the Middle-East avid the rest of the world.
     According to people who know him, Abdullah Ezam learned a lot from the Afghan Jehad. At the start, he approached the issue in an emotional way and had preferences among the Mujahideen parties. This was due to his reliance on some Mujahideen leaders. As the time passed, he corrected his mistakes and expanded his relationship with other Mujahideen parties and commanders.
     He was always courageous enough to admit his mistakes and correct them as soon as he realized them.
     He was a broad-minded scholar. He urged Arab volunteers entering Afghanistan for humanitarian services or to report on the war to respect the costumes of the people, and to perform their prayers according to Hanafite school of thought which most Afghans follow. He was so strict in this issue that some young Arabs criticized him. To him, service for Islam and victory for the Mujahideen were the supreme objectives.
     He made several trips to Afghanistan to get first-hand information about the situation. He tried to bring unity among the Mujahideen. If his efforts were not successful in bringing total unity among the Mujahideen, they nevertheless reduced tensions and helped avert broadening the disagreements among different groups.
     Abdullah Ezam was a sociable person. He was a teacher by nature and always tried to correct his companions in the best possible way. He always carried a book, and most of time was reading the Holy Quran.
     His death shocked the Mujahideen and he was named a Martyr of Afghan Jehad. It is not know who killed him, but the Kabul regime's secret police is suspect.                       -
     An Afghan who travelled with him to the North said Abdullah Ezam liked to befriend and talk to local Ulama. This contradicts the general impression in some western circles that he was promoting what are termed Wahabi viewpoints.
     Shaikh Abdullah Ezam was a capable writer and speaker. He used these abilities to support Jehad.
     He spoke English as his second language, the first being Arabic. Different Mujahideen organization held memorial meetings to pray for the soul of Abdullah Ezam and his two sons.
     He directed the Office of Services, an organization funded by Muslim donors to support Jehad.
     Abdullah Ezam will be remembered for his services to Jehad. May his soul rest in peace with the others who died to protect Islam from the onslaught of Godless communists.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
           JSM (m J f, ■ b
       if*
 A three doesn't move unless there is wind.
 Meaning: Where there is smoke there is fire, or every effect has a cause.
                                                          *
  ^ if*
 A river is not contaminated by having a dog drink from it.
 Meaning: One of good character is pure despite criticism.
        if*        £-0^
A tilted load won't reach its destinations.
Meaning: Honesty is the best policy.
                                                  mmmm
                                                    mm
                                                    m
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page ©
Editorial
                                Gorbachev follows Brezhnev's aggressive Afghanistan policy
     December 27 marks the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
     When in 1978, pro-Moscow communists took power in a military coup, they started to impose an alien way of life on the people of Afghanistan, who are deeply religious.
     The people opposed the communists, and war between the people and the communist regime in Kabul began. The communists failed to suppress the popular uprising, and despite massive Soviet support and the presence of thousands of Soviet military advisors, the regime was nearly defeated.
     The Soviet leadership sent the Red Army to prevent the people's victory over the tyranny of the communists. Hafizullah Amin, the head of the regime, was killed by die Red Army, and Babrak and Najib, who lived in exile in Eastern Europe, woe brought back and installed in Kabul.
     Afghan people opposed the invasion and the new leadership. The claim of the Soviets, that they were invited by the Kabul regime, was not accepted by the Afghans and the rest of the world.
     For nine long years the Afghan people fought the Soviet invaders, forcing the Soviet leaders to revise their policy and withdraw their troops.
     This was an important victory for Afghans and all those who supported their cause, and a humiliating defeat for the Red Army and communist ideology.
     The price that Afghans paid to protect their homeland, honor and freedom was very high. One million people died and 75 per cent of the villages were destroyed. Five million Afghans became refugees and about three million more were displaced inside Afghanistan.
     This shows how Afghans value freedom and the right to self-determination. The Soviet troops had left Afghanistan by February 15, 1989, but the Afghans' struggle did not end. The withdrawal was a victory, but final victory was still to come.
     Afghans had thesupport of the world community in their struggle against the Soviet invaders. The moral, political and material support of friendly countries and individuals enabled the Afghans to carry out their Islamic duty of Jehad.for almost a decade.
     The withdrawal of Soviet troops did not change the hostile policy of that country towards Afghanistan. Gorbachev still wants to dictate the political system in Afghanistan and to choose the rulers in Kabul.
     If the people of Afghanistan had accepted the communist rule of Taraki and Amin, there would have been no need for the Soviet invasion.
     Nine years of fighting and paying dearly for the cause of freedom had one goal and that was the right of Afghans to choose their leadership and political system.
     The Soviets have now called the invasion illegal. How do they dare to give $400 million each month to a regime which is a product of that invasion?
     The Soviet leadership has Hied to improve its image by introducing domestic reforms and tolerance to the changes taking place Eastern Europe, but the so-called new thinking has not found a way to their Afghan policy. What they are interested in now is getting back their prisoners and supporting a bunch of murderers in Kabul to keep them in power.
     This lack of flexibility in the Soviet Union’s Afghan policy is rooted in a deep sense of humiliation at their failure in Afghanistan.
                                                              Despite all the difficulties, the Mujahideen will defeat the puppet regime of Najibullah. It is only a matter of time before that will happen. Pouring money and weapons into Kabul will not guarantee the survival of a regime whose people
oppose it.
    It is in the best interest of the Soviets to change their policy towards Afghanistan and abandon their hostile attitude toward the Mujahideen. If ten years of direct involvement could not defeat the Afghans, a few years of indirect involvement can not subjugate them.
Mujaddidi meets Bush
                                     From page (1)
 bassador to Kabul.
    The ex-king ruled Afghanistan for four decades. Despite a poor economy and slow pace of development, his rule was relatively peaceful.
    In 1973, he was deposed by his cousin. Prince Daud. Rivalry in the Royal family was exploited by the communists to depose the king when he was abroad.
    The communists, who helped Daud in the coup, had shared government power with him. Daud was eliminated by the communists in 1978 when he wanted to improve his relations with the non-communist world.
  . Zahir Shah's opponents in the resistance hold him responsible for communist mischief, who had freedom of action and organization during his rule.
    In the absence of a military victory and with stalemate on the political ground, his name will always be on the list as a third option.
 Mujahideen exchange prisoners with regime
    Six Mujahideen prisoners have been exchanged with six regime prison-os in Gulbahar, Parwan province.
    Four Mujahideen who were released had been sentenced to 20 years in prison, and two of them sentenced to death.
    The six prisoners released by the Mujahideen were Communist Party members who were captured on different fronts.
    The released Mujahideen were captured several years ago in the the city of Kabul on charges of cooperation with the Supervisory Council of Jami'al Islami. They are residents of Shamali.
    The released prisoners can serve the cause effectively. Most of them are educated, and several years in jail consolidated their convictions in the cause. But the harsh life and torture during detention create many physical and psychological problems for the prisoners, and they usually need treatment after their release.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Dagarwal Ghulam Jailani
     Commander Ghulam Jailani, known as Dagarwal Jailani, was bom 55 years ago in Munara, in Jabulseraj district of Parwan province.
     Commander Jailani's father was a military officer working in Kabul and Parwan. "His father wanted his son to become a soldier,” said Jailani's representative in Peshawar. His father had enough money to help his son to go to school. Commander Jailani completed his primary school in Jabulseraj. He earned good marks and his father took him to the city of Kabul.
     Jailani was just 12 years old when his father sent him to military school. Jailani completed the school in six years. "It was hard enough to leave your village and your playmates in the country-side and stay in school day and night," Jailani once told his representative. "Teachers were strict and military discipline was the top priority for everyone."
     After completing the military college, he became a lecturer in the same school.
     Commander Jailani saw how the Soviets infiltrated the Afghan army by providing aims and technical training. The king and President Daud opened the door to the Soviets' influence. Daud decreased contacts with other countries and increased contacts with the Soviet Union. He purchased arms and sent thousands of students to the Soviet Union for training.
     Commander Jailani left the army when the communists took power in 1978. He returned to his village and began to work against the regime secretly.            .
     Though he was a military officer, organizing a guerrilla force was a difficult job. Irregular warfare was new to him. He went to see Commander Masood, who had started his work in the Panjshir Valley earlier. Masood, as a young guerrilla commander, impressed him. Jailani chose to work under his command. Masood sent him to Jabulseraj to mobilize the people.
     After eight months he was arrested by regime forces. The Communists tortured him but released him after two months.
     In late 1979, he went to the mountains and became the commander of Jabulseraj district. By that time he had lost eigh members of his 20-man aimed group.
     "He always remembers his martyred friends, such as Khwaja Amanullah, Eng. Abdul . Baseer, Mamoor Abdul Hadi, Hamidullah, Abdul Shukoor, Toran Nabi and Zabit Naseer,” said his representative. In two years' time he expanded his forces from 25 to 200 men.
     The first operation in which his group participated was in the fall of 1981. The Russians had besieged Jabulseraj. Their aim was to capture the Mujahideen's base and establish their security post there instead. The fighting lasted for ten days. The casualties on both sides were high. The Mujahideen destroyed 10 tanks and jeeps and killed or wounded 460 Russian and regime soldiers . The Mujahideen seized 30 Kalashnikov rifles.Twenty Mujahideen and 45 civilians were martyred.
     In 1982 and 1983, Commander Jailani worked hard to organize his forces. They fough the enemy along the Salang highway, at Qala-e-Surkh garrison and the regime's Division No. 2.
     His operations in the winter of 1985 and the spring and summer of 1987 were the largest ones. In the operation of September of 1989, carried out by the Supervisory Council, Commander Jailani played a significant role.
     He was able to capture many posts in Jabulseraj area. Commander Jailani plays an active role in the Supervisory Council.
     Dagarwal Jailani has opened some schools for the children in Jabulseraj. He is respected by his people and Mujahideen. He is married and has many children. His family lives inside Afghanistan.
 snort News
     Lyon: Aid to continue
    A two-day conference of European volunteer agencies helping Afghan refugees ended in Lyon, France, on November 26, after the participants promised to continue their humanitarian work.
    All the participants agreed that after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, their job has became more difficult A lot of people now think that the war in Afghanistan is civil war, and they are not willing to donate money. The participants also showed concern for the safety of aid workers.
    Despite the difficulties, they decided to continue their humanitarian efforts. There are five million refugees in Iran and Pakistan. About three million more are displaced inside the country.
                                                                                         Private relief organizations have played a key role in helping needy people inside and outside Afghanistan.
                                              Tailoring workshop for refugee widows
     A women's delegation, from UNICEF visited the tailoring workshop of Ummohatul- Momineen girls school in Peshawar on November 26.
     In this workshop orphan girls and widows are taught tailoring so that they can earn their living through constructive work.
     The UNICEF delegation admired the program which is supporting needy women in exile.
     Ummohatul-Mumineen girls' school is run by the Organization of Muslim Sisters, affiliated with Jami'at Islami Afghanistan.
                                            Refugee women pray for Arab scholar
     The Organization of Sisters in Islam held a memorial ceremony for the late Abdullah Ezam on November 27.
     In addition to Afghan women, a considerable number of Arab anc Pakistani women also participated in the meeting..
     Speakers praised the services of Shaikh Abdullah Ezam to Jihad, and prayed for his soul.
    Afghan reporter killed in Kandahar
    An Afghan reporter and aid worker, Shah Mohammad Bazgar, was killed in an ambush on November 24 when he was going to Kandahar.
    In the incident several other people were injured. Bazgar, 40, was a member of CNRS, a French research institute, when the Soviets invaded Afghansitan. He started to travel to Afghanistan to shoot films and photographs.
    In France he organized meetings in which he spoke about Afghanistan and showed films and slides.
    He was the co-author of La Resistance au Coeur. a book on the war in Afghanistan. Bazgar hailed from Ningarhar province and'was affiliated with Hezb Islami (Khalis).
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page @
 An overview of the situation in 1989
   By: Mohammad Bs'haq
 The year 1989 witnessed the completion of the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. This was a historic event for Afghans, who had fought for a decade to liberate their country. But the departure of Soviet troops did not bring peace. The Kabul regime, which they had installed, remained in power. The resistance continued u> fight for the removal of the regime, but contrary to the world's expectations, achieved no major victory.
     No acceptable formula has been found to solve the problem of Afghanistan politically, and the war’s continuation has caused the Afghan people to suffer.
     The last Soviet troops left Afghanistan on February 15, 1989. The Geneva accords signed by Pakistan and the Kabul regime on March 14, 1988, paved the way for the withdrawal.
     Soviet troops were engaged in military operations until the completion of their withdrawal. In January, they launched a major attack in Salang, killing hundreds of ordinary people and destroying most of the villages in that valley.
     After the Soviet withdrawal, the Mujahideen faced the Kabul regime's forces. Ordinary Afghans and foreigners alike predicted that the Mujahideen would defeat the regime quickly and establish their own government in Kabul. Even people within the regime and some Soviet circles predicted the fall of the regime soon after the withdrawal
     The Kabul regime took defensive measures, imposing a state of emergency, arming party workers and Strengthening defenses around the cities.
     The resistance was busy with other activities. Under pressure from public opinion and suggestions from friendly countries, they got together to form an interim government to replace the Kabul regime and avoid complications after the regime was defeated.
 A Consultative Council was formed in Rawalpindi. Disputes over the number seats for the Iran-based Mujahideen parties resulted in their boycotting the interim government. Five days after the Soviet withdrawal, the Interim Government was formed and Prof. Mujaddidi was elected president-.
     The interim government needed to be strengthened by other military and political steps to make it a credible organization. The government promised to move inside Afghanistan and hold
 elections, but could not fulfill either of the two promises.
     The Interim Government needed a military achievement to establish its control over Mujahideen who were organized along party lines inside Afghanistan.
     World expectations forced the Mujahideen to go to action. The Jalalabad offensive was the first major attack against the regime after withdrawal. Changing the Mujahideen's command structure and tactics were beyond the AIG’s abilities in the short term. But although AIG did not have practical control over the situation, the outcome of war affected its future.
     When the Mujahideen failed to capture Jalalabad, world expectation of the Mujahideen victory over the communist regime decreased. Recognition of the AIG was limited to the Organization of the Islamic Conference and four other countries.
     The major reason for the failure of the Jalalabad campaign was the resistance's unpreparedness for an offensive war, which it had not fought before. Moreover, the political groundwork had not been laid for such a change and none of the necessary organizational changes had been introduced. Shortages of some weapons and tactical shortcomings also contributed to the failure of the campaign.
     The regime's survival in Jalalabad gave it hope and raised the morale of its troops somewhat
 I t was expected that during the summer, which is the "fighting season" throughout most of the country, the war would escalate. But the summer passed without major military engagements by the Mujahideen.
     If we set aside total defeat of the regime, which was an ambitious plan, die Mujahideen have had second rate victories over the regime during the year. More areas have been liberated, the regime has been isolated and the Mujahideen's movements inside the country have become easier than in the past. Some Mujahideen fronts have been busy reorganizing their forces, reviewing their tactics and preparing for major engagements.
     The Mujahideen now control five provinces and most of the districts in the country. They have continued to build more hospitals and schools, and have been busy repairing roads, irrigation channels and bridges. The role of private relief organizations in financing these projects have been considerable.
     The cuirent stalemate on the battlefield is understandable. The Soviets left before the resistance was ready for an offensive. The geographical structure of Afghanistan, ethnic composition of the country and political affiliations of the people made efforts at reorganization and unification proceed very slowly. This is why some of the expected attacks by major commanders did not happen.
     Lack of coordination on the national level makes any individual move by the commanders against the regime a risky task. A major commander once told a journalist "1 have the ability to capture this city in my area but I am afraid of retaliatory attack by the enemy. In the absence of military activities in other areas, I will be the sole target of all the enemy SCUD missile. and warplanes".
 Shortages of weapons and ammunition have also affected the Mujahideen’s plans. Major commanders like Masood and Ismael Khan did not receive what they needed during the current year. They were forced to revise their plans and fight for limited objectives.
     Massive Soviet military and economic aid helped the regime to hold on. In addition to leaving a large volume of aims and ammunition during their withdrawal, they have sent large quantities of arms and ammunition including new weapon systems to the Najibullah regime. Soviet military advisors are helping the regime in Kabul and some provinces.
     Gorbachev's commitment to support the regime has surprised western leaders who thought such levels of military assistance unlikely.
     Militarily speaking, the present situation will not last long. One side or the other has to go to the offensive. The Mujahideen control a solid base in the countryside and have enough manpower to fight the war. The regime has plenty of weapons and an army with several years of experience, but suffers from a lack of popular support and a shortage of manpower.
     The Mujahideen have faced many political problems this year. The AlG has not been able broaden its base. Lack of progress on the battlefield has made the supporters of the resistance hesitate. Many outsiders feel the war is now a civil war between Afghans. The Mujahideen's failure to present their views effectively, as well as massive Soviet and regime propaganda have damaged world support for the Mujahideen.
     Difficulties between resistance par-
                                       AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page @
 ties have discouraging supporters of the resistance.The Farkhar killing of Jami'at commanders was an example of such a bad development lii absence of good news of Mujahideen victories, the bad news of differences is blown out of proportion by the world media and leads some people to the wrong conclusion.
     The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union have been successful in their propaganda campaign against the Mujahideen. The world press has stopped criticizing the Soviet Union for continuing the war in Afghanistan. Now they even compare the US role in Afghanistan to that of the So^et Union.
     The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union have provided opportunities for journalists to visit Kabul and have given their side of the story. In comparison the Mujahideen have done little and have not spoken with one voice. The Kabul regime has used rocket attacks on Kabul as a major propaganda chip to gain the sympathy of the world, while the use of cluster bombs and SCUD missiles against ordinary people in the liberated areas have drawn little attention.
     As a result there has been little pressure on the Soviets to change their Afghan policy and let Afghans to determine their future, instead of imposing a communist regime on them.
     Since the direct talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets at the beginning of the year, there has been no real move to find a political solution to the problem.
     The UN passed a resolution in support of a political solution, but no practical steps were taken. One reason is the inflexible position of the regime and the Soviet Union after the survival of the regime for a few months.
     The Kabul regime proposes direct talks and power-sharing. It seems the regime wants to play a key role in the future political system of the country, perhaps under a different name and even leadership.
     The Mujahideen continue refusing to deal with the regime but have said that they will accept good Muslims who come from Kabul to be part of the government
     The Zahir Shah option gained strength as the stalemate continued. American and Soviet officials met the king. The ex-king has refused to deal with regime. He has also avoided accepting the Mujahideen interim government He is waiting for the proper time to play a role which is still not known.
     While Soviet support for the regime has been beyond expectations, support for the Mujahideen has faced interruptions since the Soviet
 withdrawal.
     China improved its relations with the Soviet Union and Yuli Voronsov, a deputy foreign minister of USSR, has said that Chinese government has promised the Soviets they will not supply arms to the Mujahideen.
     The government of the People's Party has not changed Pakistan's Afghan policy. Saudi Arabia has recognized the Mujahideen government. The US still support the Mujahideen, but Afghan war is not as popular among Americans as it was before the Soviet withdrawal.
     Iran has improved its relations with the Soviet Union and inclines toward a political solution through a regional approach. Iran's problems with Saudi Arabia and the US have made efforts to coordinate the Mujahideen supporters' activities more difficult
     The plight of the Afghan people continued in 1989. People inside Afghanistan faced shortages of food and insecurity as a result of righting. The flow of refugees to neighboring countries has continued.
  While the suffering of the civilian population in the cities has been the center of media attention, the continued hardships of the people in liberated areas has received little coverage.
     Life for Afghan refugees in Iran and Pakistan has been difficult. The decrease in humanitarian aid since the Soviet troop withdrawal is worrisome.
     Since most refugees have refused to return to Afghanistan, the UN’s planned reconstruction program has not begun. Prince Sadruddin's de-mining program has been limited to theoretical instruction for some refugees.
     The human right situation in the country has not improved. A UN report speak of summary trial and mistreatment of the prisoners by the Kabul regime. Some Mujahideen groups also have been accused of mistreating prisoners.
     Concern for the safety of civilians in the cities have made the Mujahideen cautious of using their weapons against enemy, targets within the perimeters of cities controlled by the regime. It has also prevented the Mujahideen from imposing a full blockade of the cities.
     The message of 1989 for the Mujahideen and their supporter is clear. The Mujahideen need to reorganize their forces and unite their ranks before they can achieve military victory. Without progress on the battlefield, there is no chance of a solution to the problem. Mujahideen supporters should help them by giving them what they need to gain the upper hand.
    New Book
    Russian Crimes in Afghanistan is the name of a book written, about the Soviet penetration into a peaceful neighboring country through economic and political means. It covers the period from 1826 until the 1979 invasion. The author of the book. Dr. Sher Ahmad Nasri, is an Afghan scholar who has studied the issue for a long time.
    He has made use of available written material on the subject in addition to interviews with knowledgeable Afghans who have closely observed developments in their country.
  "The book is written in Dari( Afghan Persian) and is printed in Pakistan. It is 650 pages long. It costs Rs. 200 in Pakistan and $25 abroad, including postage.
    Orders for the book may be made through the mailing address of AFGHANews.
  WAD cheats British Lord
    WAD, the regime’s ministry of secret police, has tried to show a human face by showing the list of 11,000 people killed by Taraki and Amin regimes to a visiting British politician.
    The list was made public in 1980 after the Soviet invasion as a propaganda move to expose the nature of Amin's regime and to justify replacing him with Babrak Karmal.
    The list was sljiown to Lord Nicolas Bethel, who visited Kabul on the request of the Soviets to help release Soviet prisoners
  Mujaddidi meets Soviet professors
    Prof. Mujaddidi, the president of the Afghan interim government, has had a meeting with three Russian professors from Moscow University during his stay in Washington.
    The meeting was organized through the mediation of the Afghanistan Department of Nebraska University.
    Prof. Mujaddidi told VOA that he informed the Soviet professors of the Soviet involvement in combat activities in Afghanistan. Prof. Mujaddidi was accompanied to the meeting by Dr. Lafraie, Eng. Ahmad Shah and Sayed Mukhdoom Rahin.
    Prof. Mujaddidi said that the meeting was not pre-planned and it was proposed to him during his visit to the US. ’
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 24, December 15,1989, page © I
Prof.B.Rabbani opens reconstruction seminar
     Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Reconstruction Minister of the AIG, on November 22 in Peshawar opened a 3-day seminar which discussed the rehabilitation of the refugees and the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     The seminar was sponsored by the Islamic Relief Agency (ISRA), in cooperation with the Reconstruction Bureau of Afghanistan (RAFA).
    • In his opening speech Prof. Rabbani said that there were three phases for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In the first phase the refugees must be helped to go to their respective areas. They should be given enough food and other assistance to start working on their farms. This phase will require transition camps for the returning refugees.
     In the second stage the priority
 will be given to the repair of roads, irrigation canals, bridges, houses and schools which were destroyed during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
     In the third phase attention will paid to overall economic and social development of the country.
     He stressed the role of scholars and professionals in each phase of the reconstruction. He said that steps should be taken to contain the flow of experts abroad and to create conducive conditions for the return of those who live outside Afghanistan.
     Prof. Rabbani said that before the return of the refugees, demining of routes, villages, farms and pastures should be carried out. This will prevent human losses among the returning refugees.
Mujahideen release two Soviet prisoners of war
    Two Soviet prisoners of war were handed over to) their mothers by the Afghan Interim Government on November 27 in Peshawar.
    The handover took place in a simple ceremony in which Sayed Ahmad Gailani, the Chief Justice of the AIG, the Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, mothers of the prisoners and an official of the Pakistan foreign ministry had participated.
    Sayed Ahmad Gailani read out a statement on behalf the AIG in which he termed the release of the Soviet soldiers as a humanitarian gesture to show the Mujahideen's good intentions. He said that the war was not over, and tens of thousands of Afghans were held in Kabul and in the Soviet Union.
    Farooq Azam, the Education Minister of the Interim Government, told the mothers of the Soviet prisoners that Afghan mothers were also waiting for their sons who are held by the regime and the Soviet Union.
    The Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan, Mr. Yakunin, thanked the AIG and said soon some Pakistani and Afghans prisoners will be released by the Kabul regime.
    A committee has been set up in the Soviet Union to work for the release of prisoners of war. The Pakistan government helped facilitate the release of the two Soviet prisoners.
    To cover the event a large number of Pakistani, Afghan and foreign jour-
 nalists attended the ceremony.
     This is not the first time the Mujahideen have showed their good intentions towards the Soviets. In the past, dozens of Soviet prisoners were handed over to the Red Cross, to be kept in Switzerland for a period of time and then allow them to choose between living in the West or returning home.
     Other private organizations also took some prisoners to the west. Last spring Jami'at allowed two Soviet prisoners to choose between returning home and staying with the Mujahideen. They told ICRC officials that did not want to return.
     All these gestures were never reciprocated by the Soviets and die Kabul regime.
December 9,1989
  Qaus 18,1368
Kabul
 Max (C°) Min. 7           1
 rain 4mm
Salang             4
                                                                                                         rain 6mm, snow 26 cm
Jabulseraj  9  4   
Chekhcharan 3  -16 
Shiberghan  20   4 
Mazar       17   2 
Kunduz      15 5   
Farah       19 6   
Zaranj      23 7   
Jalalabad   27 8   
Islam Qala  16   7 
                         Please help us publish AFGHANews!
 Dear reader,
   We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
   If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number
   JEHAD
   Account No. 735-37
   Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala