Vol 5, No 7
April 1,1989
                   India sends food, drug to Kabul
     India flew eight tons of food and medicine to Kabul on March 23 as part of a deal made earlier with the regime foreign minister, Abdul Wakil who paid a visit to New Delhi.
     Nine tons of food was supposed to be flovyn later. Wakil, on his return fom Delhi told the reporters in Kabul that India had agreed to airlift UN food supplies to Kabul in addition to bilateral aid provided to the regime;
     Earlier, India announced a donation of three and half million dollars to the UN emergency fund for Afghanistan.
     Due to road blocks assistance to the Kabul regime will either be flown or sent through the Soviet Union.
     India is the only country outside the Warsa Pact which has close relations with the communist regime in Kabul.
     The UN wanted to airlift food supplies to Kabul but could not continue after one flight by an Ethiopian plane because no airline was ready Jo take the Tisk of flying into the besieged city.
       Mujahideen get Afghan seat in QIC
    The Afghan Mujahideen gained a major political victory when the Afghan seat in the Organization of Islamic Conference (OIC) was given to them.
    The Afghan seat had remained vacant since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
    The 45-member ministerial meeting of the organization was held in Riyadh in the second week of March to discuss different issues concerning the Muslim world.
    Thirty five members voted for the membership of the Afghan Mujahideen Alliance while 10 countries, mainly Arab radical states, either abstained from voting or opposed the decision.
    When the foreign Minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, was invited to occupy the Afghan seat, he was greeted with the call of Allah-u-Akber (God is great) by the foreign ministers in the conference.
    The Soviet Union and the Kabul regime regretted the decision of OIC. The government of Najibullah had also asked the meeting to give the Afghan seat to the regime.
    The OIC resolution on Afghanistan also pledged for continued humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and asked the Islamic Development Bank to study the scope of assistance required for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
    Prof. Mujaddidi, the president ol' the interim government of the Mujahideen lauded the decision of the OIC and asked the member states to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
    So far, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Sudan have recognized the interim government.
    The Mujahideen consider the OIC move a major political victory for their cause. The Afghan Mujahideen became the 46th member of OIC.
Sovits intesify sending arms to Kabul regime
    The Soviet Union has intensified sending arms and ammunition to the communist regime in Kabul.
    The Soviet Deputy Foriegn Minster, Youri Vorontsov, said on March 16 that the Soviet Union has resumed sending arms including medium-range Scud missiles to the Kabul regime. Most of these weapons are airlifted.
    Vorontsov who is also the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul did not say when the Soveit Union stop sending arms to the regime.
    The Soviet army left behind weap-
  ons and military installations worth billions of dollars.
      In an interview with a Soviet paper, General Valentin Varennikov, the > Head of the Defense Ministry Operation Group in Afghanistan said that the Soviet Union has given all sorts of weapons to the regime in Kabul. These weapons include tanks, armored cars, planes, aritillery pieces and rockets.
      The Soviet General said that the regime has an uper hand in arms and ammunition.
      The Soviet General criticized Biezenev for sending the Red Army to
Afghanistan. He claimed that the com munist regime had an army of 300,000 men which was well-equipped and well trained.
    It is believed that the Soviet General's interview is designed to tell the Soviet people that the defeat of the regime is not due to shortages of arms and ammunition.
    The Soviet Foriegn Minister has shown concern about rocket attacks against the Kabul airport.
    He warned the Mujahideen against attack on the Soviet embassay and its personnel and said that Soviet Union will react to such attacks.
    If there is any retaliatory action against the Afghans it will be in the form of carpet-bombing of the populat ed areas and firing long-range rockets.
--------------------------- AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1, 1989, page ©
News
                    From the battlefields
 k                                -
      Salang
    More than 200 soldiers and officers of the Kabul regime stationed in the Salang joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on March 14th.
    The unit which included 165 soldiers and 43 officers were stationed in Olang area about 5 Kilometers south of the tunneL They handed over die following weapons to the Mujahideen:
1-Kalashinkov rifles    170          
2-Light machine guns    5            
3-Heavy Machine guns    5            
4-Rocket launchers      6            
7-Mortars               5            
8- 76mm howitzer        1            
9- And aircraft cannons 2            
10- Armored cars        12           
11- Trucks              4            
12- Radio set           1            
       On March 26, the* Mujahideen  
killed or wounded 26 enemy soldiers  
 and captured 25 soldiers when they attacked their post at the mouth of the Salang valley, near Jabul Saraj.
    The Mujahideen seized 29 Kalashinkov rifles, one pistol, two DShK guns and three mortars.
    The Mujahideen also captured three tanks and some ammunition and* since they were not able to take them they were set on fire.
    Kabul province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 13 soldiers and killed six when they attacked an enemy post, west of Kabul city on March 5.
    The post was located near Spozmai Hotel in the vicinity of Qargha Dam. The Mujahideen seized 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one pistol and one mortar. The
 Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 The operation was launched under the command of Mullah Ezat of Paghman,
    In another operation the Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 30 soldiers and officers of the regime on March 21 when they attacked their posts in Surkh Kotal.
    The posts which were parts of the security belt of the city of Kabul were destroyed.
 The Mujahideen seized 30 Kalashnikov rifles, four machine guns, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, one mortar and some ammunition. The attack was launched by the Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Ezat
    Herat province
    The Mujahideen launched a coordinated attack against the enemy posts in and around the city of Herat on March 14.
    Ten tanks and trucks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed.
    The enemy retaliated by aerial bombing of the Mujahideen-controlled areas killing 28 Mujahideen and civilians and wounding 35.
    Herat-Kandahar and Herat-Toorghondi roads are cut and fighting still continues. The Mujahideen from Jami'at in Gulran district captured 11 soldiers, destroyed four enemy trucks and seized 30 light weapons when they attacked an enemy post in that district on March 12.
  Jawzjan province
     More than 300 militiamen joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on March 2 bringing with them large quantities of aims and ammunition.
     The defecting soldiers belonged to an enemy battalion stationed in Aqcha
 city. Among them were 300 militiamen and 10 officers who surrendered to
Pahlawan Ahmad, Jami'at commander in die district. They brought with them
the following items:               
1- Armored cars          2         
2- Trucks and jeeps      8         
3- D-30 artillery pieces 2         
4- Mortars               4         
5- Heavy machine guns    30        
6- Radio sets            8         
7- light weapons         300       
8- Large quantities of ammunition  
and foodstuff.
                                                          Jalalabad
     A stalemate situation prevails at the fighting fronts around Jalalabad. When the Mujahideen launched their offensive to liberate Jalalabad they scored some significant victories in the initial stages of the offensive but could not keep up the momentum.
     The Mujahideen launched their attack on March 7. Fighting continues around the airport, 11th Division headquarters and the city itself. In the second week of the fighting, the Mujahideen cut the Jalalabad-Kabul road to stop supplies and reinforcements from reaching the besieged city.
     The Mujahideen make extensive use of ground-to-ground rockets against the enemy while the communists make full use of their air power against the Mujahideen.
     The Mujahideen belonging to different parties cooperate with each other but a single command does not exist. According to some experts this, and lack of experience in conventional
 fighting are the main reasons for the slow progress of the Mujahideen.
     The Soviet Union and the communist regime have accused Pakistan of direct involvement in attacks against Jalalabad. Pakistan has rejected die allegations.
     The initiative is still in the Mujahideen's hands. The communist forces are isolated further as each day passes by.                x
     It is difficult to predict when the war will end and what will be the result of it Experts think that the regime forces can not go very long without
 enough supplies of food and ammunition.
     Although the casualties on the Mujahideen side are relatively heavy, the morale is still high.
Afghans lose a supporter
                                               Louis Dupree passes away
    Dr. Louis Dupree, ~an American scholar who spent 30 years in Afghanistan and wrote many articles about the country and its people, died of lung cancer at the age of 64 in the US.
    When the communists took power in 1978, Dupree's visa was terminated and he was among the first refugees to come to Peshawar.
    After a few months he went back to Kabul to continue his work but was arrested by the security men of Hafiyzullah Amin. He has published the account of his experience in the communist jail.
    When travel to Afghanistan was not possible, he spent some of his time in Peshawar to continue his work.
    Dr. Dupree wrote many articles for five American Universities about the history and people of Afghanistan.
    The result of his work was published in a book, called Afghanistan, in 1973.
    Dupree went to Afghanistan in 1949 to start his work. He travelled to many parts of Afghanistan.
    He and his wife, Nancy who is also a scholar, travelled in their landro-ver jeep. When they were expelled from Afghanistan, they brought the jeep to Peshawar. The jeep was painted in green, a color the Mujahideen like.
    Dupree remained active in the past ten years of the war. He spoke in many gatherings and wrote many articles about Afghanistan.
    He was a scholar but his long stay in Afghanistan had made him a close friend of Afghans.
    Once in the beginning of the eighties during a discussion about Afghanistan in the US State Department an expert on the Soviet Union said that the Afghans had no chance of winning the war. He said that history shows that the Soviets never left a country once they have put their hands on it. The expert argued that the Soviet Union was a super power with vast resources and the biggest war machine die world ever have seen. On the other hand Afghanistan was a backward country with no army, a divided resistance, little organization, and so on. Louis was there and he objected. He told the man:" Perhaps you know the Soviet Union but it is obvious that you do not know the Afghans, because if you did you would also know that
                                                     Turn to page (4 )
AFGHANews Vol5, No 7, April 1,1989, page ©
Soviet Muslims fight for religious freedom
     After replacing the official religious leader of Central Asia, Muslims in Tashkent staged another demonstration demanding Uzbaki to become the official language of the Uzbakistan Republic.
     The demonstration was held in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbakistan Republic, two weeks ago. The Central Asian Republics of the Soviet Union which are dominated by a Muslim population are forced to use Russian as their official language. This was part of a Russification program in the area carried out first by the Tzarist empire and then by the communists.
     Muslims in the Islamic Republics in Central Asia had a rich civilization and culture which was crushed by the invaders. To deprive the new generations of Central Asians from access to their glorious history, the communists banned use of local languages in official works and schools.
     Earlier a group of Muslims staged a demonstration against the official spiritual leader of Central Asia, Shamsuddin Baba Khanov, and accused him of drunkenness and womanizing. The 67-year old Mufti (title of the official clergy in Central Asia) was forced to resign on February 6.
     A temporary Mufti was appointed. He is Mohammad Sadiq, a 36-year old clergyman who has studied Islam in Libya.
     Hundreds of Muslims from Uzbakistan and the neighboring* Republics of Kazakistan and Tadjikistan inarched through the streets of Tashkent
after Friday prayers on February 2. They demanded the dismissal of the Mufti.
     Soviet official media did not report the event in detail and tried to play it down. The foreign journalists who had gone to Tashkent, a city close to the Afghan border, to cover the withdrawal of the Soviet troops reported the event.
     Foreign juornalists interviewed individual Muslims outside Tilla-Shaikh mosque in Tashkent. One interviewee said: "Our Mufti is a terrible man. He drinks, he smokes, ‘he plays billiards and he has been photographed with prostitutes in Sochi. There are five Islamic laws and he breaks them all”.
     There are 50 million Muslims living in the Soviet Union most of them in Central Asia republics.
     Goibachev has tried to give the impression that he tolerates practice of religion in the Soviet Union. He has given more freedom to the Christian church and Jewish worshippers but (he situation for Muslims has not changed.
     The Soviet leadership will have a lot of reservations about granting freedom to Muslims because of the nature of Islamic and the sensitive area in which the Muslims live.
     Islam is a way of life. Muslims will not be satisfied by just going to the mosque and applying Islam to wedding and burial ceremonies.
     The Muslims in Central Asia live close to Iran and Afghanistan. They have ethnic connections with the people in these countries. The Soviets lost a 9-year long war against the Muslim guerrillas in Afghanistan and this victory of the Mujahideen will give a morale boost to the oppressed Soviet Muslims to stand and demand freedom of worship.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1,1989, page 0
                                                   Enemy's psychological war designed to divide Afghans
    The enemy has spread rumors about a secret deal with the Mujahideen. These rumors are spread to create misunderstanding between the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen around Salang, especially commander Masood, are the main target of this psychological warfare.
    Masood has complained about the way some news agencies, especially BBC, report the news about these situations. Since BBC broadcasts these reports in Pushtu and Dari, the two major languages spoken in Afghanistan, it creates misunderstanding among the Mujahideen of different regions.
    Disinformation has been one of the main Soviet weapons against the Mujahideen. The major field commanders like Ismail Khan, Masood and others have been the main targets of these propaganda attacks.
    The late propaganda against Masood is build on the assumption that Masood can block Salang. If the road is not blocked, there must be understanding between him and the communist regime.
    It is true that Masood is a major force in the area and can block the road if he wants but it should not be assumed that blocking the road is an easy task. Effective blocking of the Salang highway needs a general mobilization of forces in a large area. The local Mujahideen can only create problems for the enemy, something which is being done. A major attack requires preparation, planning and proper timing. More than that any major operation to block the road must be part of a bigger military plan.
    An important factor in any such operation is the safety of the civilian population living around the area. This means that the attack can not be launched when the weather is very cold and no alternative arrangements can be made for the evacuation and accommodation of thousands of people. If a major attack is launched while the civilian population is still in the area, a large number of them will be killed by the enemy air force and artillery fire.
    The killing of 600 people by the Soviets, before completion of the troop withdrawal, indicates the seriousness of the situation in this regard.
    The war has reached a critical phase. Every step in this phase must be calculated well.
    Masood has his own way of doing things. No fighting for the camera and no premature action in reaction to the enemy's propaganda, are the self-imposed rules strictly observed by him during the ten years of war.
    Taking into account the climatic conditions and other factors, the level of fighting around the Salang highway is reasonably high.
    The Afghan new year has started. The weather is becoming mild. This will allow the Mujahideen to escalate the war. For the Mujahideen the option of agreement with the regime is out of the question. They believe that the regime will fall sooner or later. Why should they compromise or deal with a weak enemy?
    The enemy is exploiting the unsophisticated nature of the Afghan common man and wrong competition among the Mujahideen political
                                                                                             Turn to page (7 )
 Louis Dupree
                                                       From page ( 3 )
they will not give up, they will continue to resist until the Soviets are forced out of their country".
    He said the same thing on numerous lectures around the world, in articles and interviews, in every possible forum where he could make his voice heard. Even during the worst years, between 84 and 8(6, when the Soviets tried to bomb Afghanistan back to the stone age, when they attacked furiously in a last desperate attempt to crush the Afghan spirit of resistance, when many people who supported and believed in the Afghan cause did not dare to hope any more; even then he never expressed a single doubt that the Afghan people would reach victory in the end.
    Louis was right, because he had above all one thing in common with the Afghans, which was crucial in his profound and unique understanding of them; he was not a quitter. Just like the Afghans he was a tighter.
    Dupree was lucky to see the departure of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan but he did not live long enough to go back to a peaceful Afghanistan and renew his contacts with the people whom knew in the past.
    Dupree's death is considered a great loss for Afghans. Prof. Rabbani, the Jamiat leader, in a message to Nancy has called Dupree’s death untimely.
    "Mr. Dupree has a special place among scholars on Afghanistan. He was not only intellectually interested in Afghanistan, but also was emotionally attached to the land and its people", Prof. Rabbani's message reads.
    Dupree and his wife spent the last six months in Peshawar to continue their job. When he left Peshawar there were,a.lot of talk about the interim government in Afghanistan. In an article Dupree wrote that if the Afghans were left alone they would be able to find a solution to their problems.
    OIC condemns Rushdi's book
    The OIC ministerial conference has condemned Salman Rushdi for writing the blasphemous book' Satanic Verses'.
    The meeting also called on publishers to immediately withdraw the circulation of the book and appealed to the Muslim stales to boycott those publishers who failed to do so.
    Salman Rushdi’s book has hurt the feeling of the Muslims all over the world.
                                            • AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1, 1989, page @
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf
     Mawlawi Sayyed Mohammad Yousuf, 34, is the Chief Administrator (Provincial Amir) of Jami'at Islami Party in Faryab province. He was born in the Chashma village of Lawlash sub-District, Pushtoonkoot district in Faryab. His father, Sayyed Moudood died when Sayyed yousuf was two years old and his brother took the responsibility of bringing him up. Sayyed Yousuf belongs to a Sadat ( the descendant of the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) family which respected by Afghans.
     His representative in Peshawar, Mawlawi Azim, said that Sayyed yousuf went to Kabul Technical School after finishing the primary school in Lawlash. After one year, he left the technical school in Kabul and started to study religious subjects in private Madrasas. He made this decision with the encouragement from his elder brother, Sayyed Ayoub.
     Sayyed Yousuf moved from place to place to learn from famous religious scholars in Faryab province and at the final stage of his studies he arrived in Kabul where he graduated from Tar ah Khail Madrasa in 1977 and gained the title of Mawlawi.
     > During his stay in Kabul he be came associated with the Islamic movement.
     After graduation, he returned to his native village and started to teach in the local Madrasa. Six months after his return the communists took power in a military coup and this marked a big change in the life of young Mawlawi.
     The Taraki regime wanted to wipe out its potential enemies. Spiritual families and religious scholars were the prime targets. Sayyed Yousufs brother was captured but he himself managed to escape and take refuge in the mountains of Jawain in a remote part of the province. In this area about 500 anti com munist people from Faryab and Ghoor province had gathered. They wanted to start an aimed uprising against the godless regime of Taraki.
     Jehad in the two neighboring piov inces of Faryab and Ghoor started from this area.
     The leadership of Faryab Mujahideen was in the hands of Mullah Umar. Mawlawi Yousuf started his Jehad as a group commander under Mullah Umar’s leadership. In 1979 the
 districts of Lawlash, Gurziwan, Qaisar, Almar and Shereen Tagab were liberated by the Mujahideen. He played an active role in the fighting. In the fighting at Gurziwan he was injured but recovered quickly.
     When Mullah Mohammad Umar was martyred in 1984,, Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf was elected by the Mujahideen from Jami'at as their Provincial leader.
     Mawlawi Yousuf has personally taken part, in many battles against the soviets and the Kabul regime forces. Last summer he launched a 35-day long campaign against the communist forces in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab in which 24 enemy posts were destroyed and large number of the enemy soldiers and officers were either killed or wounded.
     Mohammad Azim said that out of nine districts and five sub-districts of the province only three districts and the Maimana city are under the control of the enemy. The rest are controlled by the Mujahideen. Jami'at is the dominating party in Faryab, he added.
     Mawlawi Yousuf pays close attention to the education of children. He has opened many schools. He also has established an effective judicial system.
     Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf has been personally affected by the war by losing five close relatives.
     As a commander, a religious scholar and a descendant of the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) Mawlawi Yousuf is respected by the people.
    More the 30,000 fresh refugees have recently crossed the border into Pakistan to escape the war in Jalalabad which has continued for some weeks.
    Most of the new refugees are women, children and old men. According to some estimates more than 100,000 people lived in Jalalabad before the Mujahideen launched their attack.
    The UN and other humanitarian organizations held a meeting in Peshawar to deal with the new development
    The Kabul regime has claimed that since the signing, of the Geneva accords on April 14 of last year, more than 170,000 refugees have returned to Afghanistan. This number is considered to be highly exaggerated.
    Pakistani sources have said that contrary to the claims of the Kabul regime more than 43,000 refugees have crossed the border into Pakistan since November of last year. The Jalalabad fighting has driven the bulk of these refugees.
    Jalalabad, the provincial capital of Ningarhar, is located about 75 kilometers from the Pakistan border.
    The flow of the refugees form other parts of Afghanistan, including Kabul, continues. Fighting and food and fuel shortages are the causes of the influx of the refugees.
    As weather becomes milder, the war against the regime will escalate. This may lead to influx of more refugees to neighboring countries.
                                                                ***


 t------      ~       AFGHANews Vol5, No 7, April 1,1989, page ©
 Glimpses into the historical background of   Part (1)
 The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
                         Memoirs of Dr.Tawana
     Preface: Praise be to Allah who enabled me to serve as a brick in die magnificent palace of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and be a seed among many seeds which contributed to the growth of die blessed tree whose roots are firm in the ground and whose branches are spreading vast and lofty. The Islamic Movement began in Afghanistan in aider to struggle against all forms of corruption and falsehood in general and against the false ideology of communism in particular. Today the world is a witness to die great sacrifices of the children of the Islamic Movement who have offered their property, their loved ones and even their ives in the way of Allah antLin their fight against communism.
     I hope the reader finds these memoirs informative. 1 also hope he corrects the misinformation he may have about die historical background of the Islamic Movement in the light of these memoirs.
     It may be asked why I have kept silent so for, and why I am writing the memoirs now: The reason for silence was die fast development of the situation before and after die Russian invasion as well as my being busy with Jehad tasks. Nor did I feel any need to write the history so soon. Recently, however, I realized that facts are being distorted. Unfortunately sane people who claim to be part of the Movement and to have fought in the way of God do not want the truth to be known. Worst than that they want to distort die facts for their political gains. Thus, I felt obliged to break my silence and tell the truth.
     What you Tead in this series of articles are the dungs I have eye witnessed or have perfomed personally. I also relate what I have heard from people in whom I have complete trust and whom 1 consider honest and just Nonetheless, I am aware of (he Messenger of God's saying that"Saffices for a person to be (considered) a her if he relates whatever he hears." Therefore, I will also tty to look into evidence that supports die reports. Often I would limit myself to just relating the facts. Sometimes, however, 1 would present my personal views as well.
      With all humility I pray to Almighty God to bless my humble work with sincerity and honesty. I also pray to Him to safeguard those who are in charge of our affairs from commit-
 ting historic mistakes at these sensitive moments of the history of our Islamic Umma (community).
     Islamic Movement During Infancy:
     I attended "Darul Uloom Shari" Madrasa (religious school) for secondary education and graduated in 1956. The Madrasa was renamed as "Imam Abu Hanifa" latex on. The curricula of the Madrasa included three types of courses:
 (1) courses in religion such as basics of belief, interpretation of the Holy Quran, Hadith (Traditions of the Prophet), Fkjah (jurisprudence) and methodology;
 (2) courses in linguistics of Arabic language; and (3) courses in social and natural sciences such as history, geography, physics, chemistry and so on. Students often complained about the difficulty of the courses and of too much work.
     When the Madrasa had been first established, the administration and some Egyptian teachers used to encourage students' writing and oratory talents by holding monthly seminars and contests. During my term of studies, however, the program had been terminated.
     In 1957,1 entered the Faculty of Shariat (Islamic Law) which had been recently established within the framework of Kabul University. The course load was heavy there as well. In addition to the usual courses offered in other Muslim countries' faculties of Islamic Law and Theology, we used to study traditional books on various subjects. Therefore, students faced a lot of difficulty in understanding both traditional books and learning modem lessons. Nonetheless, Afghan and Egyptian teachers were content with the students' performance.
     At the beginning of that year (1957), I and some of my friends realized the need for strengthening our writing and oratory capabilities. Thus, we designed a program to work in those fields. We began reading extra-curricular books in Dari and Arabic. We also started writing articles or translating some texts from Arabic to Dari. We shared our works with each others by giving speeches in our small circle. For a while, wewere happy with our work and did not perceive any problems. We hoped that in the near foture we would be ready to serve our community and the. Islamic Umma. Though we did not try to hide our activities from others.
our small circle which did not include more than a dozen members.
     Appearance Of The First signs Of The Danger:
     After a few.months, we sensed the appearance of a great danger. It was the danger of apostasy from Islam among the University students. We felt the danger before the religious scholars because those who were in charge of corrupting the ideas and beliefs of the students would not expose themselves to the religious leaders. They considered the religious scholars as fanantics on whom their poison would not work. Moreover, they could not understand each others’ language. The religious scholars who had studied Islamic teachings in accordance with the old Al-Azhar University's program were content to narrate what they had read in the Kalam, logic, philosophy, and Fiqah books. Whereas the other side knew notiiing about those subjects but talk about dialectic materialism, Darwinism, evolution and the lack of necessity for the existence of the Creator.
     We students, however, knew the language of the corrupters and resembled them in age and appearance. Moreover, we lived together with them at the University campus, and were their prime target because they wanted to influence students of the Faculty of Shariat first and foremost
     With the limited knowledge we had about the conditions of our country and because of the Islamic responsibility that we felt we made a firm decision to rise up against the threat to our homeland and to our Islamic Umma. We designed a three point program of action;
      (1)     Collecting all the points raised by the enemies against .Islam and responding to them in order to counter them. Since we realized we did not have sufficient knowledge of Islam, we placed increasing our religious knowledge as the first priority. We had a lot of difficulty finding good books. At the first stage, we used die works of some Egyptian scholars such as Farid Wajdi. We also found Tantawi's interpretation of die Holy Quran very useful.
      (2)     Writing and translating articles and publishing them in magazines and journals in order to give a true picture
                                                                                                                        Turn to page (7)
•AFGHANews VolS, No 7, April 1.1989, page
Afghans celebrate New Year
     Afghan new year was on March 21st The year 1368 started when the Soviet troops had left the country and the war for the liberation of Afghanistan has entered anew phase.
     The Afghan calendar starts with the immigration of the Prophet Mohammad (Peace be upon him) from Mecca to Madina where the foundation of the first Islamic state was laid. This great event was chosen as the start of the Islamic calendar. The Islamic calendar is based on die lunar system while the Afghan calendar is based on the solar system which has its root in the history of die Afghan land.
     Afghan new year marks the beginning of the spring. It opens farming activities on which most of the people depend. This is why die new year’s celebrations are also called farmers fair Maila-Dehqan).
     When Afghanistan was peaceful New Years' day was celebrated by the state. The day was a public holiday. Sports events, cattle shows and fanners gatherings were arranged. Among sports, Buzkashi, wrestling and horse races were the most common. These are Afghan traditional sports.
     New years day was a happy moment for die families too. Families got to gether, prepared special food and some people visited die grave yards to remember the dead.
     Some of these celebrations had a religious color. Raising special flags on shrines was done with the participation of thousands people.
     One of such gatherings was held in Mazar-i-Sharif, a city in the north of Afghanistan, where the forth calif of Islam, Hazrat Ali, is supposedly buried.
     People from different parts of die country travelled to the city. Some people from neighboring countries also participated in the fair. It was named Maila-e-Gul-e-Surkh ” the red flower fair".
     The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and tea years of fighting changed the situation. Five million Afghans live in exile as refugees and
                                                   From page ( 4 )
parties who make use of the enemy-made accusations against their fellow Mujahideen commanders belonging to other parties.
    While we expect our country men not to listen to enemy rumors and not let them cause any misunderstanding between the Mujahideen groups, we also expect fellow journalists who report the war to watch against enemy disinformation.
 two million more are displaced in their country. Seventy five percent of all the villages and towns are destroyed. One million havd lost their lives in the war and thousands of others have been maimed. Families are divided and the country is not safe for celebrations of national and religious occasions.
      The current year is special. Afghans have gained a major victory which once seemed impossible and dial is forcing the Soviets to leave Afghanistan. But the problem is not over yet
     The Soviet-installed regime controls most of the cities and the war for liberation has entered a new phase. As the weather becomes milder, die war
 will escalate. Escalation of war means more death and destruction.
     A lot has to be done during the current year. The puppet regime has to be defeated, a representative government should take its place, refugees should start to return home, the reconstruction of Afghanistan should begin, mines needs to be defused and agriculture should be revived.
     Afghans hope to do some of these tasks during the current year. They look with hope to the future. But there are a lot of difficulties in front of them. Some of these difficulties are very big.
     Afghans have started their new year with a hope and fear which reflects the complicated situation their country is hiring.
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
                                  From page (6)
 of Islam and demonstrate its superiority over other religions and ideologies.
     My first published work was the translation vof an essay from the book Islam: the Universal and Permanent
 Religion. After that I wrote an article
 on the occasion of the Birthday of die Messenger of Islam (peace be upon him).
     (3)     Studying communism and trying to understand it We had, however, difficulty in obtaining books which were in favor or against communism because (a) such books were scarce and die communists tried hard to keep them for themselves, and (b) we did not have enough money to purchase such books.
     Nonetheless, one of our brothers was able to get some books on communism through a pro-communist government official. One of the first two books we studied on communism was on Ludwig Feuerbach and the other one was The End of Classic Philosophy bv Joseph Stalin. Understanding these books proved very difficult because of their new terminology and new outlook. To understand the conditions in which communism had originated, we also began studying European history in medieval ages and modem tunes.
      At the same time that we were following our program of action, we tried to expand our small circle by attracting good and noble people. Two new fellows joined us in late 1957. Oite of them is the leader of a strong Mujahideen organization today. The other person proved undesirable and in order to get rid of him, we had to pretend that we bad disbanded our circle and given up our goals. Later on that
 person became the leader of a group which was against Mam. He still leads that group.
     In 1958 I was inflicted with a chronic disease which caused our meetings to stop. In die same year Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi returned from Egypt (after studying at Al-Azhar University) and was appointed as alec turer at the Faculty of Shariat. Hebe-gan contacting students and teachers and discussed with them the possibility of forming an Islamic organization. I, however, did not learn about his project in that time.
     It was during 1959 that my brother Wafiiillah Sameie approached me ant asked me to join the aide established by Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi Mr. Sameie was also a student at the Faculty of Shariat at that time. Later on he became Minister of Justice in Daud's cabinet and was martyred in the communists' 1978 coup d'etat
     Mr. Sameie did not tell me about other members of the organization nvw Neither did I ask him about that Later on I learned that Martyred Prof. Niazi, Martyred Wafiullah Sameie, Martyred Abdul Hadi Hedayat Frol: Burhanuddin Rabbani and some other brothers had regular meetings to plan and organize the Islamic Movement.
     I expressed my apologies to Mr. Sameie when he first approached me but promised to cooperate with than as soon as 1 recovered from my illness. ] joined that circle in 1961. Thus the earlier circle was merged into the new circle. Two other members of our earlier circle, including Prof. Rabbani, had joined the new circle before me.
                                            AFGHANews Vol 5, No 7, April 1, 1989, Page ©
     Ahmad Shah Masood has rejected the report of some news agencies that the Mujahideen and the puppet regime have reached an agreement along the Salang highway.
     In a letter to Afghanews he said that the report of western news agencies that the regime convoys were not being attacked by the Mujahideen along the Salang highway was not true. The Mujahideen are active along the highway and their attacks have been reported, he added.
     Masood said that the reports of agreements were based on disinformation spread by the enemy as part of . its psychological warfare against the Mujahideen. "Reporters should be on their guard against Soviets andregime propaganda". He warned.
     He has drawn the attention of the media towards the continuation of intensive fighting which started before the completion of the Soviet withdrawal
     The purpose of the propaganda seems to be to create divisions among the Mujahideen. In the past such rumors have caused misunderstanding between them.
     Ahmad Shah Masood controls a large part of the areas on both sides of the Salang highway.
     Some weeks ago the regime brought some elders of the villages along the Salang highway to Kabul and signed an agreement with them. According to these agreements the eld-os are supposed to provide the security for the government convoys in their areas. If they fail to do so, the regime will have a right to launch retaliatory attacks.
 Jami’at leader, Karim Agha Kahan discuss reconstruction issue
    The Jami'at leader has discussed the rehabilitation of refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan with the spiritual leader of the Ismaielia community, Karim Agha Khan.
    The meeting was held in Karachi on March 20 and lasted for 45 minutes.
    Hie Agha Khan assured Professor Rabbani of his support to the reconstruction program of the Mujahideen. He emphasized that the projects supported by him will benefit all the inhabitants of the area and will not be limited to the Ismaielia community.
    The followers of the Ismaielia sect live in different parts of Afghanistan but a large number of them live in Badakhshan along the borders with Pakistan and Soviet Union.
    The problem of addiction to opium and how it could be corrected also came under discussion: The two sides agreed that an effective way to fight the problem is to provide job opportunities for the people and to pay attention to their education.
    Addiction to opium is common among the Ismaielia community in Afghanistan. The Agha Khan as their spiritual leader has forbidden the use, trade and cultivation of opium.
    The Agha Khan has similar projects in Chitral and Gilgit in Pakistan. According to him these projects have been successful and could serve as an example for the work inside Afghanistan.
    Jami'at has been treating the Ismaielia community well. The community made the mistake of taking sides with the communists but when the regime forces were defeated in Keran-Munjan where a large number of these people live, they were allowed to keep their guns and choose their own leaders.
    The areas where the Ismaielia community lives are very cold and economically backward. The Mujahideen are interested in providing the people in these areas with essential needs like food, medicine, clothes and education.
; AFGHANi6 WS: ;;:
a
itjsj:                     arid      j&imi               ;
UN teaches Afghans how to defuse mines
    The UN has started a program to train 15,000 Afghan refugees in mine clearing techniques.
    Seventeen experts from different countries have set up a training camp near Peshawar.
    The UN will not play any role in mine clearing in Afghanistan and its program will be limited to spreading awareness about the danger of mines and how they could be defused.
    The Soviets and their puppet army have planted millions of mines all over Afghanistan. Unless the mine fields are cleared, the refugees will not feel safe to return and resume normal life in their country.
    A group of UN women experts will also come to Pakistan to train women refugees in demining.
    The program is at its initial phase and it is intended to complete the training of thel5,000 refugees in 18 months.
                                        Sir Geoffrey calls on Mujjadidi
   Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, the president of the interim government of the Mujahideen met with British Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, in Islamabad on monday, March 27. The two leaders discussed the latest situation in Afghanistan.
   Mujaddidi was accompanied by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani the leader of N1FA and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the Foreign Minister of the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
Vol 5, No 8
April 15,1989
Jami'at treats POWs
         Prof.Rabbani
    The Jami'at leader has assured Amnesty International of fair treatment of the prisoners of war by the Mujahideen.
    In reply to the letters of several Amnesty groups, Professor Rabbani has said that the Mujahideen do not hold any political prisoners. Those who are captured in war would be treated on the basis of their past actions. If they had willingly committed crimes against innocent people, they would be put on trial and dealt with justly, Prof. Rabbani said.
    Prof. Rabbani has assured the Amnesty groups that he will remind Jami'at field commanders of their responsibility in dealing with POWs.
    "Our religion, Islam, prohibits tor-
 ture and summary execution," Prof. Rabbani said in his letter.
     He has drawn the attention of Amnesty International towards reports that several months before completion of troop withdrawal, the Russians removed many political prisoners from Kabul jails. It is feared that they were taken to Russia. If so, cross-border movement of the political prisoners constitutes a great crime.
     Prof. Rabbani asks Amnesty to take the necessary measures to find out the whereabouts of those prisoners and to do everything for their immediate release.
     Recently Amnesty International groups in Europe have sent many letters to Prof. Rabbani showing concern about the safety of the prisoners held by both sides of the Afghan conflict.
Muj ahideen opposed to random firing on cities
Regime fires Scud missile into Pakistan
    The communist regime in Kabul fired aN Scud missile into the border town of Torkham in Pakistan on April 7.
    The missile hit a post office and caused a lot of damages. No casualties were reported.
    The government of Pakistan has strongly protested about the firing of the missile. The Kabul regime has said that the missile hit Pakistani territory accidentally.
    This is the first time that the communist regime has fired a Scud missile into Pakistan.
    The incident took place when the Kabul regime and the Soviets were accusing Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords by helping the Mujahideen in fighting around Jalalabad! They have asked for establishment of permanent UN posts along the Pak-Afghan border.
    Firing the Scud missile is an obvious violation of the Geneva accords by the communist regime in Kabul.
  Najib urged , to resign
    The British Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe has said that the vast majority of world opinion wants an end to the Soviet-backed Kabul government, according to Reuters.
    Talking to newsmen at the end of his trip to India, Sir Geoffrey urged Najibullah, the head of the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul, to step down in favor of a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
    About a further UN role in Afghan conflict. Sir Geoffrey said it was important that the UN did not give an opportunity to the Kabul regime to regain ground lost to the Mujahideen.
     The Mujahideen are opposed to random firing on cities which endangers civilians, a Mujahideen commander said in a recent interview with AMRC.
     Commander Mohammad Anwar of Jami'at Islami southeast of Kabul said that the Mujahideen council had decided to avoid sporadic firing on the city so civilians will not be harmed.
     Anwar, who recently arrived in Peshawar, said,n In our operations on the Kabul regime positions, we take into consideration the residents of Kabul".
     Commander Anwar said he believed that firing on Kabul city has been carried out by troops on the Kabul perimeter in the Qargha and Khyikhana areas.
     The Mujahideen commandos council in eastern Kabul decided last December not to attack Kabul with missiles, which could jeopardize the safety of residents, the commander said.
     According to the decision of the shoora, the Mujahideen will allow nobody to attack Kabul with rockets but they can selectively and carefully hit regime military installations, said the commando.
     Another commander, Aiiwari of Harakat-i-Islami, a member of the Mujahideen council in western Kabul, said he opposed random attacks on the city.
   Ceasefire rejected
     The Kabul regime's proposal for a ceasefire during the holy month of Ramazan was ignored by the Mujahideen.
     The Kabul regime makes use of verious occasions to ask for ceasefire and negotiation with the resistance, but these proposals have been rejected by the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
                                                   Herat province
    Five militiamen were killed and three captured when they were ambushed by the Mujahideen on the Herat-Islam Qala road on March 20. The Mujahideen also seized one truck and eight guns in the operation.
    Eleven soldiers were killed and one officer was captured when Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post on the road between the city of Herat and the airport on April 9.
    The Mujahideen seized 11 Kalashnikov rifles , one PK machine gun and one pistol.
    In another operation, nine armored cars and trucks of the communist regime were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded on Herat-Islam Qala road on April 8. The Mujahideen seized seven guns.
    Two Mujahideen were injured.
                                                   Kabul province
    Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with enemy forces who wanted to open Kabul-Charikar road in Mirbacha Koot district, about 30 kilometers north of the city of Kabul, on March 28.
    The Mujahideen: captured more than 20 enemy soldiers and killed or wounded more than 80 men.
    The Mujahideen destroyed some trucks and armored cars and seized 27 guns.
    Two Mujahideen were wounded and one killed in the fighting.
    An enemy supply helicopter was shot down by the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Rostam Khail area of Sorobi district on April 5. ^
    Four crew members of the helicopter were killed. The helicopter was carrying ammunition to the besieged city
of Jalalabad.
    Baghlan province
    More than 100 soldiers and officers of the communist regime defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Hasantal close to the city of Baghlan on March 8. The defecting soldiers brought with them 10 heavy machine guns, five rocket launchers, 85 Kalashnikov rifles and Some ammunition.
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy in Kohna-Masjed, five kilometers west of Puli Khumri city on April 2.
Two armored cars were destroyed and 12 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.
    Jawzjan province
    Four enemy soldiers were killed and six injured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy post of Bala-Hisar near the city of Aqcha on March 24. The enemy retaliated by firing heavy weapons, as a result of which seven houses in the neighboring villages were destroyed. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
    In a different operation, the Mujahideen killed eight enemy soldiers and captured 12, including a political commissar, when they attacked the enemy posts of Laghmany about two kilometers from Aqcha city on March 22. The Mujahideen captured 36 guns, one mortar, two rocket launchers, one radio set, three tractors and some ammunition.
    One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
    Helmand province
    The Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked enemy posts around the city of Lashkar Gah, the provincial capital, on
 March 15. Several posts were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.The Mujahideen seized 15 guns.
    One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured.
    Twelve communists were killed and six wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their position near the jail of Girishk on April 6.
    One, Mujahid was killed in the operation.
                                                  Urozgan province
    The Mujahideen liberated Deh Raud district after a four-month siege on March 27.
    About 1300 Militiamen who defended the district surrendered to the Mujahideen. They handed over the following items to the Mujahideen:
    More than 1000 light weapons, 20 heavy machine guns, three radio sets, six armored cars, ten trucks, five mortars and five ZPU anti-aircraft guns.
    The communist forces now control only the provincial capital of the province.
    In the attack against Deh Raud the Mujahideen from different parties participated but the Mujahideen from Jami'at and Hezb Islami (Khalis group) played a vital role.
                                                    Logar province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 30 enemy soldiers with their weapons when they attacked the enemy post in Padkhab village about two kilometers from Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar on April 5.
    One tank in woiking condition was also captured. The attack was launched under the command of Dr. Fazlullah.
                                                         Jalalabad
    Fighting for control of Jalalabad city, which started five weeks ago. Still continues.
    The city's road link to Kabul is cut. Repeated efforts by the regime to bring supplies to the town have beeri foiled by the Mujahideen.
    From six to ten helicopters bring supplies to the city each day. Keeping in mind the number of fighters and the intensity of fighting, the regime forces have enormous difficulties to resupply themselves.
    A Kabul regime spokesman reported sending fresh troops to Jalalabad.
                                                                                                             Turn to page (3 )
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page @
Council of North
      News
                                               From page (2)
A Soviet correspondent 'has described the situation in Jalalabad as very grave. As each day passes the area controlled by the regime shrinks. About 40,000 refugees from Jalalabad have found their way to refugee camps in Pakistan.
    Commander Mahmood from Hizb Islami (Khalis group) said in an inter-view with Voice of America that Mujahideen forces were positioned in Samarkhel, Khush Gunbad, Kamma, and Behsood. The Commander admitted that the casualties of the Mujahideen were relatively high and the reason he said, was lack of discipline, heavy air and artillery bombardment and Mujahideen efforts to evacuate their families. He said that the enemy forces have suffered heavy casualties in Jalalabad fighting.
    The Mujahideen commander said that about 250 Mujahideen had been killed in the fighting and more than 100 wounded. He did not give any figure for civilian casualties.
    He said Mujahideen from different parties cooperate with each other and they launched the attack against enemy targets undo- a single command.
    Commander Mahmood refused to give a date for the fall of Jalalabad but said that the enemy's low morale and shortage of supplies would contribute to. the fall of the city in the future.
                                                                                         Editorial
                                              From Page ( 4 )
land, the Mujahideen have a right to get assistance to liberate their country from the communists' rule.
    The UN and its agencies should not be used by the Soviets and their puppets far propaganda purposes. It is a pity that such a prestigious body as the Security Council is being used for propaganda purposes by the regime and that the Soviet Union as the current president is helping it to happen.
                                         Hikmatyar visits southeast Asia
    The foreign minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen left Pakistan for Dhaka, at the start of his tour of six countries in southeast Asia. In Dhaka Gulbuddin Hikmatyar met with the president and foreign minister of Bangladesh.
    Talking iri a reception in Dhaka, Hikmatyar claimed that the Mujahideen will capture Kabul during the month of Ramazan.
  publishes
    The first edition of the fortnightly paper of the Supervisory Council of the North, "Shoora" ("Council"), was published on February 5.
    The paper is published and edited by Abdussalam Paiman in four pages inside Afghanistan.
    Prof. Rabbani's message to the victims of the recent Soviet atrocities in Salang and Panjshir, and Commander Masood’s interview fill the first page of the paper. Masood foresees the fall of the communist regime in the future.
    The editorial of the paper, on the second page, comments on Soviet gains and losses in their aggressive war in Afghanistan. It concludes that the Soviets committed a big mistake in invading Afghanistan and it will be another mistake if they continue to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan.
    On the third page a poem welcomes the publication of "Shoora" in a critical time of the history of the country.
    The last page is full of news from the battlefields. The paper's language is simple and the print quality relatively good
    The Mujahideen parties publish newspapers and magazines in a dozen national and foreign languages, but all of these publications are printed outside Afghanistan. The special thing about "Shoora" and a few other papers is that they are published from inside Afghanistan. They talk in the language
 of fighters and express their feelings in the best possible way.
     Jami'at Islami was the first party to publish papas from inside. "Neda-e-Jehad” was a weekly paper published in Panjshir. "Sangar" was another paper published by Abdul Hay Haqjoo's front in Nahrin (Bag hi an). "Besharat" was published by the Mujahideen from Herat.
     The story of one of the internal publications, "Neda-i-Jehad” may be of interest to our readers.
     In 1980, Masood felt the need for a publication. A duplicating machine was brought from Pakistan. One could not buy a duplicating machine in Kabul without official permission.
     At first, the name of the publication was "Mujahid". Jami'at headquarters in Peshawar also published a paper by the same name. To avoid confusion the name of the weekly "Mujahid" was changed to "Neda-i-Jehad" ("Call for Jehad").
     It came out on Thursdays, with a circulation of 1200. About 300 copies were smuggled into Kabul. The rest were distributed in the Panjshir valley and neighboring valleys.
     The paper was published in Dari in eight pages. The paper and ink were brought from Kabul. Paper and ink were monopolized by the government and one needed official permission to
                                                                                                                        Turn to page (4 )
AFGHANews Vol.5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
                                  Soviets, regime use SC meeting for propaganda purposes
    The UN Security Council meeting to discuss the alleged violation of the Geneva accords by Pakistan was an attempt by the Soviet Union and the communist regime in Kabul to mislead world opinion about the true situation in Afghanistan.
    The Security Council meeting on April 12 was demanded by the communist regime of Najibullah and was supported by the Soviet Union, current president of the Security Council.
    The meeting was opened by Abdul Wakil, foreign minister of the Kabul regime, who accused Pakistan of interference- in the affairs of Afghanistan and breaching the Geneva Accords.
    Iqbal Akhund, representative of the government of Pakistan rejected the allegations.
    The demand for the meeting of the Security Council came after an extensive propaganda offensive launched by the Soviets and their puppets in Kabul against the Mujahideen and Pakistan.
    When the Mujahideen launched attacks against the city of Jalalabad, Kabul regime and the Soviet Union alleged that the Pakistan army was involved in direct fighting against regime forces.
    Pakistan has cooperated with UN observer teams. They have visited the border areas and have been given permission to have a permanent presence in Peshawar and Quetta, the two cities close to the border with Afghanistan.
    The allegations of foreign involvement in the war against the regime is an old story. Under the same pretext the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan and continued its aggressive war for more than 9 years.
    The Kabul regime has told big lies in the past about the situation in Afghanistan and the rooicause of the~problem. Once they said that the Afghan refugees in the neighboring countries were nomads who travelled back and forth with the change of season.
    The call for the Security Council meeting is an attempt to give the impression the regime is a victim of outside aggression. But the war against the regime is fought by Afghans themselves for obvious reasons.
    The regime came to power illegally. The present regime is a product of Soviet aggression and an outpost of the Soviet imperialism. It has committed untold crimes against the people of Afghanistan during the Soviet presence, and it continues to do so with the help of Soviet weapons after their withdrawal.
    The'first meeting of the Security Council was convened in 1980 after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Soviet Union vetoed a resolution asking for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan;
    The UN must be careful in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan, which is complicated. Although the regime is a formal member of the UN, it has neither legal status nor does it control most of the land and the majority of people.
    On the other hand, the Mujahideen who fight against the communist regime have formed an interim government which is a member of die Organization of the Islamic Conference and is recognized by four countries.
    The Mujahideen control 90% of the land and the majority of the population.
    Realizing these facts, UN organizations working for Afghanistan deal directly with the Mujahideen despite the fact the Mujahideen government is not a member of UN and the Mujahideen were not a party in signing of the Geneva accords.
   ^ Foreign aidfor the Mujahideen, military or humanitarian, cannot be considered interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. While the Soviet Union left behind great quantities of arms and ammunition for the regime and sends more by air and
                                                Turn to page {3 )
      Shoora
                                                   From page (3 )
get them from stores. Shopkeepers give the paper to our contact people as a favor to the cause.
    When fighting intensified it was difficult to get paper from Kabul. Attacks against the valley were so intense that it became difficult to continue printing the paper.
    "Neda-i-Jehad" became a refugee and then was published from Peshawar. Despite great efforts by its editors, Qanuni and then Sayyed Hamid, it lost its appeal for readers because it became another papers published from exile.
    A liberation war is a multidimensional struggle. Cultural and propaganda war is a major part of it. Unfortunately the Resistance parties' work in this field has not been very effective.
    The papers published in exile can not show the views of the fighters in the field. The language they use is not understandable by the common man. The stories are dull and the pictures are unattractive. The news is old and exaggerated. Lack of professional writers with close contact with fighting fronts is the main reason for the low quality of publications in exile.
    Publishing "Shoora” is an attempt to give people inside objective news and tell them about the Mujahideen's views on different issues.
    Conditions for publishing papers inside has improved. Military situation is under control. A group of journalists has moved out of the cities controlled by the regime to help the Mujahideen The Mujahideen's message must reach the people in this critical time of the struggle.
                                             19 killed in Georgia
    Nineteen people were killed in clashes between armed troops and demonstrators in Tblisi, capital of Soviet Georgia, on April 9.
    About 100,000 people took part in the demonstraion, many of whom demanded secessation from the Soviet Union.
    Ethnic unrest has become a source of headache for Goibachov. Making use of the limited freedom offered by Gorbachev, different nationalities demand more freedom.
    Soviet foreign minister flew to Tblisi to review the situation.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Saranwal Mahmood Khan
     Commander Abdul Mahmood Daqeeq, known as Saranwal Mahmood Khan, was bom 35 years ago in Khench village in the upper Panjshir valley. Khench is a village where the mines of the best emeralds of the world are located Saranwal Mahmood's father was a farmer possessing a limited piece of land along with some animals. His brother was a shopkeeper with one of the twenty shops in Khench village.
     Saranwal Mahmood was first sent to the nearest mosque by his father to learn the Holy Quran. "He was keen to go to the mosque but lazy to learn it,"
 said his brother Abdul Wahid, now liv-
                  \
 ing in Peshawar. In the mosques in the north of Afghanistan pupils learn the Quran, Persian classics and how to read and write.
     Mahmood was seven years old when he went to Khench primary school. He was in the third grade of the school when his eldest brother, Abdul Ghias, transferred him to Khanabad district in Kunduz province. His eldest brother, a shopkeeper in Khanabad, helped him to complete his primary and high school in Kunduz.
     "Saranwal Mahmood was interested in learning Islamic teachings as well as his high school subjects. So he was also attending Samandar Madrasa (religious school ) to fulfil his goal," said his brother.
     The Panjshir, a narrow valley with a relatively large population, was not a good place economically for the poor to live. Most of its young talented people used to go somewhere else to work and earn something to live on. One of Mahmood's brothers worked in Kabul and the rest in Khanabad. After completing high school Mahmood entered Kabul University in 1973 in the Faculty of Law and Political Sciences.
     In the early seventies Kabul University was a melting pot of different ideas. Communists, nationalists, regionalists, social democrats and Islamists were all trying to influence the students. While the Kabul government headed by Daud was favoring Moscow- trained communists, it located Muslim activists, imprisoned them, hanged them or forced them out of Kabul University.
     Mahmood was a Muslim activist. He completed his college, scoring the highest marks. He was keen to be a lecturer at the same college but since he was a known Muslim activist he was not accepted. Instead he was sent to Ghazni province to work as an attor-
 ney. He stayed two years in Ghazni until the communists took over. Mahmood was appointed as the head of the Committee of Control and Inspection in the council of ministers of the Taraki regime.
     "Mahmood repeatedly contacted Commander Masood to allow him to escape from Kabul but Masood did not. Masood wanted to have his contacts at the higher level of government On the another hand. Commander Masood wanted to have someone in the government's judicial branch to cooperate with Mujahideen," said Mahmood's brother. "It was impossible for Mahmood to stay longer in Kabul. He was a yard from the gate of the prison himself," recalled his brother.
     In 1981 he left Kabul and joined Commander Masood in the Panjshir valley. Since then he has worked in different positions for Masood. Mahmood worked as the main contact between Panjshir front and underground cells of the resistance in Kabul for three years.
     In 1984 Mahmood was very active in the valley helping Commander Masood in administration of the front. In 1985 after the fall of Pushghoor garrison in the Panjshir valley. Commander Masood decided to organize the north of Afghanistan. He selected Mahmood as the head of the Panjshir valley, which was approved by the commanders of the valley in a large meeting held in the same year. -x
     Mahmood being a non-military
 man, he learned a lot about military affairs during his work in the valley until, in the later stages of 1986-1987, he became himself the commander of many operations in the valley.
    Mahmood was successful in filling the gap in the absence of Masood in the Panjshir.
    He is a soft-spoken man and an ardent Muslim. He has a good sense of humor. He mostly wears a clean combat jacket, loose trousers and polished boots. "He has not seen his family for about six years,” said his brother "simply because he did not have time."
    His family of six members lives in Peshawar.
                                              FIMA meets in Lahore
    The sixth congress of the Federation of Islamic Medical Associations (FIMA), held in Lahore on March 8, discussed ways of helping the Afghan people.
    The meeting, which continued for four days, was hosted by Jamaat Islami Pakistan.
    Delegates of member organizations from all over the world participated in the meeting.
    Dr. Naqibullah and Dr. Mohammad Hashim represented tlje Mujahideen medical organizations.
    The next annual meeting of FIMA will be held in Kabul if it is liberated.
 UN must stop foreign interference in Afghanistan’s affairs ( Gorbachov)
AFGHANews Vol5, No 8, April 15,1989, page
 Glimpses into the historical background of Part (2)
 The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
                        Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
     In 1961, I graduated from the Faculty of Shariat and was appointed assistant lecturer at the same faculty. My job as assistant lecturer continued until mid-1964. Since we did not have many full professors and because of my professors' favorable views towards me, however, I had the opportunities of full lectureship during those years. That gave me the chance to intensify my anti-communist activities.
     I would criticize the economic and philosophic views of materialism and compare diem with Islamic teachings. I would also answer the inquiries of Muslim youth and try to remove doubts and difficulties created in their minds by the communists.
     My anti-communist activities went on inside the classroom and outside. What proved very helpful in my task was the fact that the university dormitory authority requested me to live in the dormitory of the students of the Faculty of Shariat Thus I was with the students day and night and tried my best to help them .
     The meetings of our circle continued irregularly. The reason was government's opposition to the meetings and gatherings for religious purposes.
     Leftist parties however could carry on their activities without much fear because they enjoyed Baud's support. He was the prime minister then. They also received substantial financial assistance from Russia.
     Baud's connection with the communists was disclosed when he was removed from the prime ministership and a new constitution was drafted. The new constitution banned the King's relatives—including Baud and his brother Naim—from holding high official positions. The communists raised their voice in support of Baud, considering die constitutional provision an injustice to him. Tension between the communists and the government was increasing every day.
     Enmity between the communists and the Muslims was also on the rise. With the passage of time, each side became more committed to its views and beliefs. Communist hatred of the Muslim activists, and of the university professors and students in particular, had reached the point where they considered diem to be aliens and parasites! Shamelessly they would tell Muslim activists that soon Afghanistan would become a communist country under the
 leadership of the Soviet Union. Our response was- that, God willing, before Russia could turn Afghanistan communist, it would disintegrate and the colonized Muslim territories would gain their independence.
     In foil 1964,1 went to Egypt for higher education in Al-Azhar University. Before me, my martyred brother Wafiullah Sameie had gone there. Brother Burhanuddin Rabbani joined us a little while later. We three worked together for the cause of Islam and for Islamic organization in Afghanistan. We were in constant contact with our brothers in the country and received news of constructive and destructive activities going on there.1
     Life in Cairo and relations with the Muslim Brotherhood:
     Before I went to Egypt, two groups Qf Afghan students were present in Al-Azhar University. One was a Muslim students' group under the leadership of the martyred Brother Wafiullah Sameie, and the other one was that of die communists under the leadership of Mohammad Siddiq Sailani. Differences between the two groups had reached their peak over the issue of forming an Afghan students' association and drafting its charter. Each group wanted the charter to reflect its viewpoints and
     Naturally 1 joined the Muslim brothers. After Wafiullah Sameie returned to Afghanistan, I assumed the leadership of the group despite my unwillingness. After Brother Burhanuddin Rabbani and Brother Sayyaf came to Al-Azhar, the situation changed in favor of die Islamic movement.
     I studied in Al-Azhar from 1964 to 1971.1 got my Masters degree in Fiqh (jurisprudence) methodology and Fiqh history and a PhD, in Fiqh methodology. In addition to my studies, I spent most of my time in Cairo in service of die Islamic movement.
     I had great love and respect for the Ikhwan Al-Muslemoon (Muslim Brotherhood). I never joined die society as a member however. My relationship was limited to low ranking Ikhwan inembers on the basis of personal friendship. Some of my fiends requested me to meet some other members of Ikhwan. My response was that we were also moving along the same path; I belonged to the Islamic society and did not want to join another society.
     During purges and persecution by-Abdul Naser's government, many Egyptian and foreign students burned books written by Ikhwan scholars. I however retained my collection of Ikhwan books. I even dared to defend the Society among the students. Thus I became known as ah "flchwani" (a member of the Muslim Brotherhood) among the Afghans in Cairo. Even Afghanistan embassy officials used that tide for me. When I was about to return to my homeland, an embassy member had remarked, "Another Ikhwani returns to Afghanistan!"
     Actually the communists in Afghanistan used to try to associate every Muslim activist with Ikhwan. They believed the Ikhwan to be a reactionary and pro-capitalist movement and considered its members despicable.
     As noted above, the Islamic movement in Afghanistan originated from the Faculty of Shariat, Kabul University, without dependence on any other movement outside the country. What gave rise to the Movement was the deep faith of the Afghan people, who have a long history of great services to Islam.
     It is true that some teachers of the Darul-Uloom Sharia Madrasa in the 1940s used to be members of Ikhwan Muslemoon—e.g. Jamal Ammar. They could not have any political activities, however, because the administrator of the Madrasa was related to the royal fomily and had banned any political activity.
     It may also be claimed that Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, who is considered the founder of the Islamic Movement in Kabul University, had
been influenced by the Ikhwan movement during his stay in Egypt.
     One should remember however that our work had progressed to a certain extent before his return. Moreover the brothers of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan did not follow the methods of Ikhwan in organization and. training. The books we studied were also not limited to those of Ikhwan. We studied books written by Pakistani and Iranian scholars, without' becoming their followers.
     Activists of the Islamic Movement in the Faculty of Shariat gathered around Prof. Niazi alter his return only because of their respect for his. scholarly status and his services to Islam.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15,1989, page Q
Holy month | of Ramazan starts
     April 6th marked the beginning of the holy month of Ramazan. Muslims all pver the world started to fast for one month.
     This month has a special place in the Islamic calendar because of fasting and because Almighty Allah revealed the Quran, the holy book of the Muslims, to Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) during this month.
     According to Islamic Sharia, fasting is abstaining by an adult Muslim from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse from dawn to sunset. A person who observes fasting is supposed to abandon doing, saying, hearing and seeing evil and vain acts.
     Fasting is one of the 5 pillars of the Islamic faith; A Muslim who fails to fast during the month of Ramazan without a religiously-accepted reason, commits a big sin.
     During Ramazan nights, Muslims say additional prayers, called Tarawaih, At the end of Ramazan each Muslim who has the financial ability has to pay a certain amount of money on behalf of all his family members to the poor and the needy.
     Fasting has many spiritual and physical benefits. It teaches a person self-control and trains him to be patient in the face of difficulties. It creates fear of God in the heart of the believer. Fear of God serves as an internal police force which stops the individual from doing wrong even when he is alone.
     Fasting with the rest of the Islamic community and praying in congregation gives the individual a sense of community. Fasting reminds the rich of the poor, and the ruler of the subjects.
      Recitation of holy Quran, in Tarawaih prayers, reminds the believers of their duties towards their Creator and their community.
     Ramazan ends with celebrations called EidL People get together to say congregational prayers. It is a happy moment for all.
     Islam allowes the sick, women having their monthly period, and those who have given birth to new children, travellers. Mujahideen engaged in active fighting and the vulnerable elderly to eat during the month of Ramazan, but have to fast when it is
 convenient for them.
     Before the war Ramazan was observed with full sanctity in Afghanistan. People gathered in mosques to eat after sunset. Guns were fired to announce the sunset People got up late at night to eat Some people kept cocks to wake them up. Ibis was before the alarm clocks had become a common. Guns were fired and drums were beaten to wake the whole community. The call for morning prayers ended eating and people rushed to the mosques to say their morning (Fajre) prayers.
     The coup of 1978 and the invasion of 1979 changed the |normal way of UfeFeople became refugees, families were divided and a large number of villages were destroyed and mosques became empty. The hustle and bustle of Ramazan gave place to war activities.
     The tragedy still continues. A communist regime is in power in Kabul and Jehad still continues. People look forward to the day when an Islamic government will be established in the country and the war will come to an end. They look forward to fasting in, peace and celebrating their religious and na-
 tional days Afghanistan.
 in a
 free Islamic
  Reconstruction of Panjshir
                                                 From page (8)
 ing roads and bridges form an important part of his reconstruction work.
    Revival of agriculture and animal husbandly are the two other important things which concern his committee. Preparatory work for the reconstruction of irrigation channels, and digging of new channels has started. Some help has been given to the local villagers to repair their irrigation channels.
    Kamaluddin said that mines have created problems for people and animals in the valley. He asked Sadruddin Agha Khan to get maps of minefields from the Russians who planted the mines. Without such maps, talk about cleaning mines is useless, he added.
    Panjshir had a population of over 100,000 people before the war. As a result of successive offensives launched by the Soviets, and the occupation of half of the valley for several years the people of the valley have become refugees. Most of them live as internal refugees in the neighboring valleys while a small percentage of them came to Pakistan.
    Reconstruction of the devastated valley is a roust for the return of the refugees and the resumption of normal life.
US appoints special envoy to Mujahideen
    itedj S
    The United I S tates has decided to appoint a special envoy to the Mujahideen. The envoy, with the rank of ambassador, will be based in Washington but will make frequent trips to Pakistan, where the Mujahideen are| based.
    Peter Tomsen US charge d'affairs in Beijing was recommended by the State Department to president Bush.
    Appointment of the special envoy will not be equal to recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen.
    The US government has set criteria for the recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen in which control over a large portion of territory and creation of a civil administration are included.
 It is reported that the US government is also considering breaking diplomatic ties with the communist regime in Kabul.
     The US withdrew its diplomats from Kabul before February 15, the deadline for the Soviet troop withdrawal, on security grounds.
     US officials in the pasts justified diplomatic ties with the regime on the pound that the presence of their diplomats in Kabul provided them with information they needed.
      Supporters of the Mujahideen in Congress have been putting pressure on the administration to sever ties with the communist regime in Kabul.
      The Kabul regime has denounced the US decision to appoint a special envoy to the Mujahideen interim government and has called it interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and a violation of the Geneva accords.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 8, April 15, 1989, page
    The UN Chief Coordinator                  of
Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan has said that the Soviets will help to clear mines in Afghanistan.
    Prince Sadrutldin said that the Soviets had promised to provide dummy mines for training programs of Afghan refugees.
    Minea are a major obstacle to reconstruction in Afghanistan and the repatriation of more than five million refugees.
    Experts believe that without maps of minefields the program will not be successful.
    The Soviets have refused to give maps of the minefields they have created in Afghanistan.
    The UN has started training Afghan refugees how todefuse mines. The dummy mines provided by the Soviets may help the program but without maps the minefields can not be cleared effectively.
  Malaysia recognizes Mujahideen government
    Malaysia became the fourth country to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
 Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Bahrain had already recognized the government set up by the Mujahideen.
                                           Thousands leave Kabul
    Thousands of Kabul residents, fear ing an imminent offensive by Mujahideen, have left the capital for die safety of provincial towns and neigh bouring countries, diplomats said on Monday.
    At least 9,000 people had sold their belongings and had left the city in the past three days, they added.
    Government spokesman Mohammad Amani described the figure as highly exaggerated, saying it was usual for Kabul residents to leave for other provinces at this time of the year to help their relatives cultivate land.
    "Many people in Kabul have land and they head north in springtime to take up farming," Amani said.
                             Kamaluddin seeks help for reconstruction of Panjshir
     The head of the Reconstruction Committee of the Panjshir seeks the help of aid organizations in reconstruction of the valley.
     Engineer Kamaluddin, 36, said that the Reconstruction Committee of Panjshir was founded last summer after the Soviets left the valley .The purpose of establishing the committee was to rebuild the valley, which is totally destroyed.
     He said that his committee had a big task in front of it. In a short period of time it has succeeded in recruiting technical cadres and in improving the condition of Panjshir road. It was also able to build two bridges, to repair two buildings to be used as hospitals, to dig two tunnels as bomb shelters and to construct six kilometers of new road. It has helped the local population to repair some irrigation channels.
     Most important of all, the committee has completed the survey of a number of projects to start when funds are available, Kamaluddin said.
     He said his committee has laid the foundation of reconstruction work in the valley with the help of his 54 staff, 11 of whom are engineers.
     Kamaluddin joined the Islamic movement in high school. He graduated from the faculty of Polytechnic at Kabul University as a civil engineer and worked for a short while in the field. He joined Masood in 1980 and helped him in different jobs.
     In 1983 he was appointed the head of the Financial Committee of Masood's organization. He did the job successfully and laid the foundation of accounting work for that committee. He was also in charge of aid distribution among internal refugees, which
 brought him in contact with foreign aid organizations helping war-affected Afghans inside the country.
    Last summer Kamaluddin was appointed head of the Reconstruction Committee of the valley and he negotiated with a UN survey team who had gone to the North.
    Asked about his talks with the UN team, Kamaluddin said that he had discussed reconstruction of the valley with them. They promised to help the local population by sending fertilizer and medicine.
    A convoy of 17 trucks under the UN flag was sent from Kabul to the valley but the convoy was ambushed by Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group) and the supplies woe taken, Kamaluddin said.
    About his future plans, he said that everything depended on the availability of funds. "We have trained manpower and have laid the ground for reconstruction work," he said.
    Kamaluddin saitL that he needs money, equipment and technical assistance to do his job. This was the reason for his trip to Peshawar, he said.
    Kamaluddin said that he intends to construct the buildings for 32 large mosques, four high schools, four secondary schools, 20 primary schools, two hospitals and 5 health centers.
    He also wants to build two bridges, 9 culverts, 30 footbridges and to improve the condition of the road.
    Building of two stretches of road about 30 Kilometers long are also in his priority list.
    Kamaluddin said that due to the physical structure of the valley and its dependence on supplies of food and building material from outside, build-
                                                                                                              Tumtopage (7)
               Swedes continue to support Afghans
     The annual meeting of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, held in Stockholm on March 18, decided to continue its humanitarian assistance to the war-affected Afghans even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
     The meeting, was held to discuss the future work of the committee.
     The meeting declared that the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was a great victory far the
 Mujahideen and the Afghan people, bu t that the war of liberation would continue until the Soviet puppets in Kabul are defeated.
     The Swedish Committee will launch an extensive fund-raising campaign in Sweden to support the Afghan people.
     The meeting elected Jan Stolpe, the former vice-chairman of the Committee, to be Chairman.