Vol 7, No 1
 j f f X £ f C) A
 "         ^ U  1) 0  c.
January 1,1991
                                         Shevardnadze quits office
    Soviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shevardnadze resigned on December 20 because of problems within the Soviet government over reforms.
    His resignation surprised many people at home and abroad because he was considered a close friend of Gorbachev and a strong supporter of perestroika. He warned the congress of People’s Deputies in Moscow that dictatorship was coming.
    Shevardnadze's resignation has raised questions about a possible change in Soviet foreign policy, and its implication on unresolved issues like the Afghan problem. Gorbachev has said that Shevardnadze's resignation would not change Soviet foreign policy.
    Shevardnadze had a role in the decision to withdraw Soviet troops from Afghanistan. But Moscow's military, economic and political support for the Kabul regime continued after the troop withdrawal.
    Shevardnadze discussed Afghan issues with James Baker many times. They reported making. progress towards finding a political solution to the problem. One of such talk was held in Houston, Texas, recently. It was expected that the two sides would agree to stop sending arms and ammunition to the two sides of the conflict. But due to some differences on the issue, the agreement was postposned.
    Gorbachev has not yet appointed a new Foreign Minister, but two ranking Soviet diplomats are thought to be candidates for the job. The first is Yevgri Primakov, a senior Soviet expert on the Middle East Primakov was involved in developing the Geneva Accords signed by the Kabul regime and Pakistan and sponsored by the US and USSR.
    The second candidate is Yuli Vorontsov, the USSR envoy to the UN. ■Vorontsov was Soviet Ambassador to Kabul during and after the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.
              UN criticizes human rights records of Kabul regime
     The Kabul regime was among the three countries singled out by the UN General Assembly for human rights abuses on December 18. The two other countries were Iraq and El Salvador.
     In an interview with VOA, Dr. Felix Ermacora, the UN special reporter on human rights in Afghanistan, said despite some improvement in human rights in Afghanistan after the Soviet troop withdrawal, there are still major problems in that country. He said there were jive million Afghans living as refugees outside their country. They form one third of the world's refugee population.
     He said during his last trip to Afghanistan that he visited the areas controlled by Mujahideen for the first time. Comparing the situation in the liberated areas with those in the cities controlled by the Kabul regime he said the Kabul regime did not tolerate its opponents and fought them with full force. In Pakistan, he visited refugee camps, hospitals and clinics to talk to the people.
     Dr. Ermacora said there were 3,000 political prisoners in Kabul and there was practically no free press there. He met with some organizations which were allowed to express their opinions, but those who wanted to form opposition groups woe not safe from

finnounc ing:
                     AFGHANews enters the 7th year of its service to Jehad
 government persecution
     He visited Pul-i-Chaikhi prison, which he described as the worst prison in West Asia. Although there were some improvement in prison conditions, the situation was far below from what the UN recommended, he said
     The UN reporter said the Kabul regime described the prisoners as criminal terrorists and its security organizations dealt with the political prisoners. The situation of prisoners who were still being interrogated was very difficult.
     He said despite constitutional provisions for the participation of all sec tions of people in political activities, in practice such a thing did not exist because the opponents of regime feared persecution.
     The UN reporter said freedom of religion is exercised in Kabul and he did not receive any complaints about restrictions on the practice of religion. (Ermacora's view about freedom of religion in Kabul is based on a purely ’western interpretation of religion which is limited to personal belief and worship. For Muslims, however, relig ion is a complete way of life. Allowing a Muslim to say his prayers does not return to him his full religious freedom.)
     Of human, rights in the areas con trolled by the Mujahideen, he said there were some low ranking resistance people who prevented refugees from returning to their homes. This might be in contradiction with the program of their leaders, but at low level such things were taking place. He said the Mujahideen had prisons in the liberated areas but he had not been able to visit them. When asked how the Mujahideen treated their prisoners, he said the situation varied from place to place but it was a fact that they had prisons and prisoners.
     The UN reporter said the Afghan war was a forgotten war and Afghans were forgotten people, because world public opinion was not interested in Afghanistan anymore.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
                                    News
                           From The Battlefields
   Faryab Province
   The Mujahideen captured four posts on December 12 in Afghan Kot, close to the city of Maimana, killing nine enemy soldiers and wounding seven. They seized 16 Kalashnikov rifles. One Mujahid was killed in the attack and four were injured.
   On December 11, the Mujahideen attacked an enemy unit stationed in Mazar Chawny, near Maimana, killing five enemy soldiers, capturing two and wounding three. Five Mujahideen were injured and one was killed.
    Herat Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at launched the following operations against the enemy from 6 to 16 December.
    •The Mujahideen killed 20 enemy soldiers, captured one soldier and seized 10 Kalashnikov rifles and one *-118 wireless set when they attacked post in Chesht sub-district. Four Mujahideen were killed and four sustained injuries.
    •A militiaman defected to the Mujahideen, bringing with him 10 Kalashnikov rifles from regime security posts around the city.
    •In two separate attacks on Herat-Torghundi Highway, one armored vehicle and two oil tankers were destroyed, nine soldiers were killed and one officer defected to the Mujahideen along with his family. The Mujahideen seized two Kalashnikov rifles and one pistol.
    The Mujahideen captured 40 enemy soldiers and seized 35 guns and two rocket launchers and some ammunition on December 16 in Jalwardan area close to the city of Herat
     In. a series of attacks launched against the enemy close to the city, more than 100 enemy soldiers and officers were killed, 16 soldiers were captured, two tanks and one truck were set on fire and more than 100 light weapons were seized. The fighting, which began on December 20, continued for two days. Mujahideen from several districts took part in the operation. Sixteen Mujahideen were killed and several others were injured.
     The Mujahideen liberated eight villages located in Enjeel and Guzara Districts, and destroyed 15 posts on the security belt of the city of Herat on 23 December. One tank and one truck woe destroyed and the enemy suffered heavy casualties. Reports adds that snowfall in Herat has not slowed down the pace of fighting, which had gained momentum recently. Cmdr. Ismail
 Khan leads the Mujahideen in the attacks.
    The Kabul regime has repented heavy fighting between the Mujahideen and its troops around the city of Herat.
    Farah Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at and. NIFA (Pir Gailani) killed four enemy soldiers and seized six Kalashnikov rifles and one pistol when they attacked * an enemy security post west, of Shindand air base on December 10.
   Badghis Province
    The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and four trucks of a supply convoy going from Herat to Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis, and killed six soldiers and wounded eight on December 6 in the Laman area.
    The convoy was composed of 20 armored vehicles and 150 supply trucks.
    Two days later, the Mujahideen attacked the returning convoy in the Houz-i-Khudaie area, close to Qala-i-Naw, killing two soldiers and capturing two others.
    An enemy attack on Mujahideen positions in the Dah Kamary area was repulsed on December 8 after they destroyed one tank and two trucks and killed 11 enemy soldiers. The Mujahideen seized two Kalashnikov rifles.
     One Jami'at junior commander and five Mujahideen were killed in the attack.
     After fierce fighting last summer between the Mujahideen and the regime's forces in Qala-i-Naw, the area is relatively calm. Mujahideen activities have decreased due to cold weather. The regime is bringing supplies to die besieged garrison of Qala-i-Naw. Meanwhile the regime forces are trying to recapture some of the posts they lost to the Mujahideen in Qala-i-Naw last summer.                 '  •
 Jawzjan Province
    The Mujahideen liberated 10 villages in Sar-i-Pul District and seized 120 Kalashnikovs, two P.K machine-guns, one tank and 80 boxes of ammunition on December 15, Qazi Yasin, Jami'at commander, reported.
    Eight regime troops were killed and seven were injured. Seven Mujahideen sustained injuries.
    Kunduz Province
    In 10 days of fighting for control of the Kunduz-Sherkhan Bander road, the Mujahideen and regime forces have suffered heavy casualties.
    Kabul regime troops attacked the Mujahideen position in Puza-i Qandahari and Ortabolaq on December 9.
    General Nasruddin, Rahim Pahlawan, a famous militia commander, Brigadier Akbar and four of his lieutenants, and 45 soldiers of KHAD and militia units were killed and 25 soldiers were injured.
    The enemy lost three tanks, one BM-41 vehicle-mounted rocket launcher and one anti-aircraft gun.
    Forty-two civilians were killed anc 25 sustained injuries . The Mujahideen lost nine men and seven were injured.
    Regime troops looted the villages they entered and inflicted heavy material losses on the people.
    The report has been sent by Jami'at chief commander in Kunduz, Aril’ Khan.
    Logar Province
    Fighting between the Mujahideen and regime forces Has continuet around Mohammad Agha anc Zarghoon Shahr. The Kabul regime planes have spread anti-personnel mines in the area to prevent Mujahideen movement
              From page (3)
                           AFGHANews Vol 7, No 1, January 1,1991, page
              Gorbachev's Afghan involvement contradicts Nobel peace award
     The 1990 Nobel Peace Prize was given to a representative of Gorbachev in Oslo, because he himself could not attend the ceremony due to problems at home.
     A group of Afghans and their Norwegian supporters demonstrated in Oslo on the day of the ceremony to show their displeasure with the decision by the Nobel Peace Committee. Afghans hold Gorbachev responsible for the continuation of the war and Soviet interference in Afghanistan.
     A group of nationalists also staged demonstration in front of Norway’s embassy in Moscow protesting the decision because they find Gorbachev’s nationality policy very harsh and undemocratic.
     The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan also issued a statement on the occasion which is presented here: The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan emphasizes that Nobel Peace Prize of 1990 to Gorbachev is an insult to the Afghan people, who have fought for the independence and liberty of their country for 10 years. It is a fact that the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989, but....
      •Gorbachev was a member of the Soviet leadership even before 1985, and shares the responsibility' for the Soviet warfare against their neighbor during those years.
      •Gorbachev was the leader of the Soviet Communist Party in a period when the war in Afghanistan was intensified - no doubt in an attempt to gain a final victory over the Afghan Resistance through massive warfare against the civilian population.
      •Gorbachev is the leader of a country which is still giving heavy military assistance to the Kabul regime, and thereby maintaining the armed conflict.
      It is a fact that Gorbachev was the leader who finally realized that a military victory in Afghanistan would be too high a price for the Soviets to pay, and who accomplished the withdrawal. This realization was the result of the situation in Afghanistan and in the rest of the world, and of the Afghan people's struggle for freedom.
      The Nobel Peace Price for 1990 is given to a statesman who is responsible few the death of one and a half million Afghans, for displacement of 5 to 7 million refugees, for destruction of a country causing the agricultural production to fall to 50 percent and and for laying millions of mines which will claim Afghan lives in the years to
 come.
     A Peace Price is also an obligation. The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan wants to emphasizes that the Peace Prize makes claims on the receiver. It is our wish that friends of the Afghan people, all over the world, are standing behind the following demands:
     •     President Gorbachev: Be responsible for bringing peace and freedom back to Afghanistan.
     •      President Gorbachev: Stop all Soviet military support to Kabul.
     •President Gorbachev: Use the Nobel Peace Prize to start removing the mines that your country left behind in Afghanistan.
     •     The people of Afghanistan must be permitted to decide their future with out any foreign interference.
             The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan.
  Battlefields News
                                          From page (2)
   The Mujahideen have reported deployment of some 2,000 Kayan militiamen in the province.
 Ningarhar Province
   The Mujahideen liberated Kama District, close to the city of Jalalabad on December 18. The regime troops were driven out of their positions in several days of righting. The Kabul regime has admitted losing of some posts in Kama. The Mujahideen say the regime forces suffered heavy casualties in the attack.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
     .Jjb j> oM J
 Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
 Meaning: All things come to him who waits.
                                                                                                  miyti±0 LSIjIbJ OjLti
 A river is made drop by drop.
 Meaning: Every little bit counts; or, progress comes from accomplishing many small things.
                                                             - J*
 Your own deeds are your companions along life's journey.
 Meaning: As you brew so shall you drink.
     .0.} SL |4£   |4A 4j^ aL»
 One's own tongue is a place of safety or of calamity.
 Meaning: There is no venom compared to that of the tongue.
                                                                                                                                                                           *a;: < X'
AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page @

44 B4
■0£:->-y '
                      y4- -r v3 ‘
                      B d teoV
                     y<fv s rtwv
                     k;
a&:tt ■■■ i
       ......
«ps#$
.VAV^A'CSv^.V. .V.Vj-.V.
 BB'4
W4mM4
lllllli
          N 
Editorial   
c           
 Afghan peace suffers setback
    The resignation of Soviet foreign minister Edvard Shevardnadze may have a negative effect on Soviet foreign policy. Strengthening the position of conservative elements within the Soviet government will insure Soviet support for the Kabul regime and prevent a political settlement.
    Shevardnadze's resignation of December 20 was caused by disputes within the Soviet government. He had become foreign minister of the USSR in 1985. He was a close friend of Gorbachev and a strong supporter of his reforms.
    The Soviet foreign policy underwent many changes under Shevardnadze. Democratic changes in Eastern Europe was tolerated and some steps were taken towards arms reduction and ending the Cold War in Europe. Soviet-American cooperation in the Gulf crisis is another example of such a change.
    The major development in regard to Afghanistan was the withdrawal of Soviet troops, which was completed by February 15,1988. But, despite the withdrawal of troops and Shevardnadze's denunciation of the invasion, the Soviet Afghan policy did not change. Military support for the Kabul regime continued. New weapons systems, including SCUD missiles, were given to the Kabul regime; thousands of Soviet advisors continued to help the regime army in military operations, and Soviet cross-border artillery and aerial attacks against the Mujahideen along the Soviet-Afghan border continued. Soviet economic aid to the Kabul regime increased after the Soviet troop withdrawal. Food and fuel were sent to regime to keep it in power. Soviet diplomatic support for the Kabul regime persuaded some countries to deal with Kabul.
     It is believed that the KGB and the Red Army are in control of Soviet Afghan policy. This policy treats Afghan issues as if they were problems of a Soviet republic and not as issues of an independent country. The aim of this policy is to' insure a key role for the PDPA in any future government in Kabul. With this background, one can safely conclude that Shevardnadze's resignation will not have a great impact on the Afghan situation and Afghans do not regret his departure.
    Although no significant change was witnessed in Soviet Afghan policy during Shevardnadze's tenure, he was engaged in political discussions with Americans to find a political solution to the problem. His resignation will slow down the process of seeking this solution. In case the hard-liners get control of foreign policy in Moscow, prospects for a political settlement will diminish.
    It should be added that the Kabul regime is worried about a stoppage of Soviet arms because it will hurt the morale of its supporters. The Kabul regime will also face tremendous problems because of shortages of spare parts for its sophisticated weapon systems. An arms embargo will not have a devastating effect on the resistance because supplies of arms to the resistance were greatly decreased after the Soviet troop withdrawal, and the Gulf crisis reduced the quantity of arms reaching the Mujahideen further. The Mujahideen have readjusted themselves to a reduced level of foreign aid.
     Although Gorbachev has said Soviet foreign policy will not change, radicals who cannot reverse the process of democratization in Eastern Europe might demonstrate -their opposition to the soft foreign policies under Shevardnadze by adopting a hard-line policy on Afghanistan. In that case, the Soviet overt and covert support for the illegal regime of Najibullah will continue and even might increase.
     Continuation of die present Soviet Afghan policy -- military and political support for the Kabul regime — will not make the communist regime in Kabul acceptable to Afghans and will not solve the Afghan issue on Soviet terms. The experiences of the past 10 years must have shown that employing oppressive means to suppress the Afghans' freedom struggle not only failed to weaken their
                                              Tumtopage(6)
     The French Cultural Center for Afghans in Peshawar has organized an exhibition cf 44 paintings, drawings, and pottery pieces by Abdul Qadir Hakimi, an Afghan artist.
     The exhibition started on December 15 and will remain open to the public till January 15, from 3:00 pm to 6:00 pm on office days, at C 27/28 Spinzer Plaza, University Town, Peshawar.
     The exhibition depicts the real way of life in Afghanistan, outside the occupied cities, and reflects the revolutionary spirit of Jihad.
     Hakimi, 41, was born in the resort town oflstalif, about 30 kilometers north of Kabul. His father was a goldsmith. After primary school in Istalif and Ibn-i-Sina secondary school in Kabul, he attended the art school in Kabul.
     After graduation from the Teachers Training Academy, he served as the art teacher of the French-medium Istiqlal high school in Kabul for twelve years. The school awarded him a three-month scholarship for painting in Paris.
     When . the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, Hakimi became a refugee in Pakistan. He worked first in the Audio-Visual Department of Jami'at Island Afghanistan and later started to work as the dissemination field officer and designer ofICRC.
     This is the sixth exhibition of Hakimi's work; two have been in Kabul, four in Pakistan.
     Hakimi told AFGHANews that he has learned a lot from Afghan and Pakistani artists since he became a refugee. He admitted that meeting Afghan artists in exile was much easier than in Afghanistan. Even before the war, there was little contact between artists in Afghanistdn.
     He admires the work of Ustad Ghousuddin, Shahrani and superb miniature work of Mohammad Ali Shahdad.
     Hakimi believes that closer contact between Afghan artists and their encouragement by the Mujahideen parties can improve the quality of Afghan art. He said some Mujahideen parties have encouraged calligraphy but little has been done to promote other forms of art.
                                                             Turn to page (6)
J
AFGHANews . Vol 7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
                     Mujahideen have opened fifty schools in Panjshir
    The Chief Administrator of Panjshir, Mahntood Khan, has said that Jami'at has opened more than 50 schools including hree high schools and three warding religious schools in the valley.
    In interview, with Mujahid, a weekly published by Jami'at, he said more than 4000 students attend classes in Panjshir.
    He said a committee has been formed to propagate Islamic values and fight against the social evils by talking to the people. The members of the committee are the local religious scholars.
    He said a meeting of the elders of the valley is called when a decision is made about major issues. Islamic law is applied by local administration in the valley.
     Mahmood Khan said the Mujahideen of Panjshir participate in military actions against regime outside the valley. "During the current year our Mujahideen operated in the North, Salang and Shamali areas and will continue to send them in the future", he added.
     He said the local unit of Council's army played key role in fighting in Shar-i-Buzurg, Khwaja Ghar, Salang and Totom Dara.
     Mahmood Khan was appointed to his new job in 1985. He is a graduate of the Faculty of Law of the Kabul University and became active in the Islamic Movement when he was a student.
Big lie exposes truth about Naj ib1 s ' national assembly1
    Twenty orphan children of Afghan refugees living in Peshawar will be provided with monthly cash Assistance of $30 by Afghans and Other Muslim families in Australia. Hie program, Child Sponsorship Scheme* was launched by Jami'at
 15. According to die program the money donated for the orphans will be distributed to them by the Jami'at Muslims Sisters Organisation. U is hoped that within three month the
 reach SB, '
     An Iraqi paper has said first the Kabul regime has received a donation of $306 mtthon from Saddam
 M-M* . 4 4              . 44. rttJk. t
ttou of Islam in money has been:
Rahim Hatft
                                                                                                          . The to Abdur
    Habibur Rahman
    Radio Kabul reported that the representative of the people of Panjshir in the national assembly of regime, Jan Mohammad, met with the Prime Minister Khaliqyar and presented him a clock as gift of the people of Panjshir.
    While this news is not different from other reports of the regime, it was surprising to the people of Panjshir and those who have been following the events in that strategic valley.
    Panjshir has been the strongest Mujahideen base close to Kabul. It was a withness to nine offensives launched by the Soviet troops in ten years of occupation. Major parts of the valley remained under occupation for several years. The valley was totally destroyed and its people became refugees. Repeated attempts of the Kabul regime to send people in the occupied part of the valley to use that as a human shield for protection of the Soviet troops failed.
    After the Soviet troops left the valley, the Mujahideen re-established themselves and people started to return and resume their normal life. With this history there is no chance for the Kabul regime to hold elections in the valley and the people outside valley refuse to do anything to discredit their long struggle against the Soviets and their
 stooges.
    The story sheds light on the nature of the regime's so-called National Assembly. Not only Panjshir, more than 80% of the countryside is out of the control of die regime and five million Afghans live in exile.
    Whom do the members of the regime represent? They represent their personal interests and they are no more than armed militiamen of the regime. One is defending the regime with the gun, the other gives a legal image to deceive simple people outside Afghanistan.
  KHAD agents behind Islamabad bomb blast
    The Islamabad police have said that KHAD, the Kabul regime's secret police, was behind the blast in front of the General Post Office in Islamabad on December 10, in which the carrier of the bomb was killed in a premature explosion.. The bomb weighed two pounds and was made in USSR.
    Two persons have been arrested. They have admitted having contact with KHAD and receiving money for their sabotage activities.
 fatherland Bout, and Mohammad Seddiqae Saifeui, the regime Minster
    An olMsT^
 Committee of the Supervisory Owncii has said that literacy classes have been opened m the five districts of Taliqan city to heip those, who want leant reading; and writing. Hie classes are taught by volunteers.
                                                                                      The sixth summit of die Islamic Conference (OIC) which was supposed to take place in Dakar ( Senegal) this
 January has
 the Gaff SsSi The dS-member or-gan&ation hasnotfixedadatefor the session of Iex next summit* which Is usna% held every 3rd year. The lAfghaa resistance is member of the OIC. '                 %     -
    Australia will provide lour mh* Son debars* worth of wheat to Afghm refugees ist Pakistan through Wotldl^Progt^OSTP),
    The " Australian High Commissioner in Islamabad, Mr* OJ, Bice, said diem was a substantial peed for food to help foe three million Alghaii refugees hvlng in iSkfctaa. '       '
                          ___J
AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page.®
 From the Diary of Jehad
Part (3)
Supervisory Council welcomes Mujaddidi
  Mohammad Es'haq Before the end of our discussion Masood got a message that Prof. Mujaddidi was on his way to the North. He asked me to postpone my trip to Panjshir until the end of Mujaddidi's trip.
     Prof. Mujaddidi reached Piew, in the upper part of Worsaj Valley, on September 16. He was greeted by Masood and a delegation of Takhar dignitaries. Mujaddidi was accompanied by 200 men, including some officials of the AIG, ranking members Of his party and bodyguards.
     The guests spent the first night in Piew. Masood, who had just recovered from malaria, tried to serve his guests in the best possible way.
     In the morning the guests started their journey, in a convoy comprised of 20 cars and trucks, towards Khanaqa, the center of Worsaj. At noon they reached Khanaqa where they were greeted by thousands of Mujahideen, students and elders of the area.
     Prof. Mujaddidi addressed the gathering and showed pleasure that he was able to meet them for the first time in a decade of Jehad. A representative of SC welcomed Prof. Mujaddidi and his entourage. Enthusiastic school children sang revolutionary songs. This was the second biggest gathering the town had seen in ten years. Two years ago, Prof. Rabbani was also given a warm welcome by the locals when visited Worsaj.
     After noon prayer and lunch the guests visited the Cultural Committee of the SC. The convoy, which had grown in size, moved towards Farkhar. At night Prof. Mujaddidi reached the military school of SC where he and his friends were lodged. The next day Prof. Mujaddidi addressed a gathering of people who had come from different parts of Takhar to meet him.
     In the afternoon, Mujaddidi held talks with Masood in which important political and military issues came under discussion.
     Masood also held separate talks with prominent members of Prof. Mujaddidi's delegation. These talks were followed by several other meetings held during a week-long stay of Prof. Mujaddidi in the area.
     Masood praised the leadership of
 Prof. Mujaddidi and advised him to broaden the base of the AIG to make it a representative body. Both opposed any attempt by individual parties to replace the Kabul regime.
     They believed that any major decision affecting the future of the country should be decided jointly by all effective forces in the country.
     Prof. Mujaddidi was informed of the military and non-military programs of SC.
     On September 19, Professor Mujaddidi visited Faikhar. He was warmly received by the local people and Mujahideen. He addressed a huge gathering in the central mosque of the city. After spending one night in suburbs of Taliqan, he arrived the city in the morning of September 20. Thousands of people greeted Prof. Mujaddidi. He addressed a huge gathering in the center of the city describing his policies.
     He led the Friday prayers in the central mosque of Taliqan and laid the foundation stone of a religious school.
     The next day he visited two schools, an abandoned Soviet base, and the city hospital. He received many delegations coming from different parts of the North.
     Prof. Mujaddidi and his entourage were impressed by the way the Mujahideen were running the city of Taliqan, the biggest city controlled by the Mujahideen. Taliqan    is jointly
 ruled by three parties, Jami'at, Harakat and Hezb (Khalis group). It has a governor and a uniformed police force. The law and order situation is ideal.
     During his stay        Professor
 Mujaddidi was informed of the incident of Tang-i-Faikhar in which a number of prominent Jami'at commanders were murdered by Sayyed Jamal's men of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar).
     A video film in which the culprits had admitted about their crimes was shown to him. Prof. Mujaddidi had taken a strong stand on the incident when it happened and condemned it This stand earned Pro. Mujaddidi a good reputation in the area which was demonstrated during his visit.
     It seemed that Prof. Mujaddidi was highly impressed by the achievements of the SC. He left for Pakistan after seven days and was accorded a warm send off.

                                                          From page (4)
    Haldmi has tried to keep the pottery handicraft of his native town, Istalif, alive. He was afraid that continued Soviet occupation of Afghanistan might result in the destruction that art. He had started to make pottery in Peshawar but faced shortage of funds and skilled workers.
    Hakimi feels happy that his people have resumed their pottery work and once more the beautiful pottery from Istalif is reaching the towns and villages of Afghanistan. This was possible due to improved security in the liberated areas after the Soviet troop withdrawal and the liberation of Istalif by the Mujahideen last summer.
                                                                                             Editorial
         From page (4) will, but made it stronger. Ten years of Jehad must have sent a clear message to the Soviet leaders that the time is past when Moscow chose governments inKabuL
    Devetopments in Moscow demand that the international community should maintain pressure on Moscow to change its Afghan policy and let Afghans decide their future. Afghan Mujahideen also should prepare themselves for a longer struggle in case events in Moscow lead to a prolonged intervention by the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
  Jami'at garners second position
    The Mujahideen volleyball team won second place in a four-day tournament held in Peshawar. Thirty-six teams took part in the games.
    The final match was played on Saturday, December 22, between Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and the Daud Shah team of Bannu.
    In the tournament 32 teams from N.WF.P and four teams of Afghan refugees took part A large number of Pakistanis and Afghans watched the games, which were played in Sahahi Bagh of Peshawar.
    The Daud Shah team won the final game 3-0, and became the champion of the tournament pushing the Jamiat team into second place.
AFGHANews Vol 7, Nol, January 1,1991, page Q
Afghan Mujahideen congratulate Walesa’s victory in Polish elections
     Lech Walesa, the former leader of the Solidarity Trade Union of Poland and the symbol of struggle for democracy in his country, was sworn in as the first democratically-elected president of Poland in fifty years on December 22. The event marked the end of a long dictatorship in Poland.
     Afghans welcome the victory of Mr. Walesa because the Solidarity Vlovement has given moral and political support to Afghan Mujahideen in their struggle against the Soviet invaders. Supporters of Solidarity Movement, all over the world, extended their support to Afghan Mujahideen by taking part in the meetings and processions organized in support of the Jehad and by reflecting the news of the Afghans' struggle in their underground and open publications.
     The following letter sent by a Polish Australian to Mahmood Saikal, Jami'at representative in Australia, demonstrates the strong support by the Solidarity Union to the Afghan cause:
     Dear Sir:
     I had the honor of meeting you in Canberra some months ago, when you addressed the Australian Institute of International Affairs.
     Three months ago the Polish community in Australia celebrated the tenth anniversary of the Solidarity Union. During that celebration, an exhibition of Solidarity memorabilia was held at the Polish Embassy in Canberra. During my visit to the exhibition, I saw something that I thought would be of interest to you and the organization your represent - a series of underground "postage stamps" issued by Solidarity during the time the movement was being repressed by the communist authorities from 1981 to 1988. Among the stamps were those which reminded people of Soviet aggression against Afghanistan. I managed to obtain photostat copies of those stamps, and I enclose them with this letter.
     All the stamps were produced in full color, and were of excellent quality - better, in fact than most stamps produced by Australia in recent years. The first set of four stamps is mostly self explanatory; the words poczta podziem-na mean Underground Post in Polish. The next two stamps show, on the left, a Polish freedom fighter superimposed on the map of Poland; on the right is a Mujahideen superimposed on the map
 of Afghanistan; in the center, the "post office" cancellation refers to the old royal capital of Poland, Krakow. The last series of two stamps shows, on the left, imperial Russian attacks on Afghanistan in the 19th century ( XIXw.; Ces Rosyjskie is an abbreviation for Cesars II Rosyjskie, meaning Russian Empire in polish). On the right the stamps show the Soviet(ZSRR= USSR) invasion in the 20th century (XXw). Polska means Poland.
     Please accept these copies with my best wishes. I pray that communism will soon end in Afghanistan, that peace will come to that long-suffering country, and that its people may be permitted to work for a better future in an independent country.
     Tom Ciesniewski Hackett Act 2602 Australia
                                                                                         Solidarity Underground Struggles for independence
 Underground Post (unknown organisation, no date): History of Soviet military interve..uons:
       ~                             'IJnisr Coacnfii11
 Summer 1953 Berlin camp
 Spring 1968 Prague camp
           JOICN IfM       
mi         __Jth.......    
rocniumm *       d*        
           POCXMPOCKMMNA * 
WQ5MA IM   ZIMA W7f        
ritti       nanrasucMN* M  
 Autumn 1956 Budapest camp
 Winter 1979 Kabul camp
 Underground Post (unknown organisation), July 1985, Solidarity with Afghan Mujahadins •*                            "For  our freedom  and yours"
ZA NASZA i Wasza wolnosu /**         b c1__d
100 LAT IMPER1ALNYCH PODBOJ0W
MOSKWY NA SRODKOWYM W5CH0DZIE
                 Hiiiiiiiiiia
            XIXw.:
     i <
30 POLSKA zt

                                                  *N I
                                               P>/r^
                                               so POLSKA
                                                    mi
xx

★
Poczta Podziemna
AFGHANews Vol7, No 1, January 1,1991, page ©
Commander Najmuddin prepares for peace, war
     "The area was free; people were happy; die law and order situation was good; schools and hospitals were opened and contraction of irrigation channels and building of roads had started."
     This was the observation of Abdush Shokoor, an Afghan now studying in the International Islamic University, Islamabad, who just returned from a four-month trip to Jurm and Baharak districts of Badakhshan. He met the famous Jami'at commander, Sayyed Najmuddin Waseeq, while he was there.
     He found Mujahideen organization more firm than in the past Councils of elders and Ulamas were formed to deal with local problems.
     In Jurm, the Mujahideen had opened a high school for girls and a high school for boys. In Baharak also there were high schools for both boys and girls. Primary schools have been opened in all major village of the two districts.
     Jurm has a 15-bed hospital. There is a clinic for women run by a lady doctor who graduated from the Medical Faculty of Kabul University. Baharak has one clinic.
     The road to Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, and to Eshkashem, a town on the Soviet border, are open and local merchants bring goods to the area along these routes. The Mujahideen have repaired a 25-kilometer road connecting Jurm to Hazarat-i-Saeed in the upper part of the Yamgan Valley.
     The Mujahideen try to help the local people by improving the conditions of the existing irrigation channels and digging new ones. They are facing problems due to lack of cement and rock drills.
     Improved seed provided by Afghanaid and the UN helped the people to grow more food than previous years, but because of sustained drought, it did not have a substantial effect on the general food situation. Food, brought from Takhar via Faizabad, and from Eshkashem is available only at high prices.
     The UN distributed some food to the local people last year. The food was brought in a convoy from Eshkashem to Baharak.
     This year, the UN has brought some more food which is supposed to be distributed in return for work. Distribution had not started.
     The Kabul regime has a garrison
 in Zebak and another in Eshkashem. Last year, Sayyed Najmuddin captured Zebak but later he lost it because a group of Hezb Islami Mujahideen attacked his base in Baharak while he was busy fighting the communists. Kabul regime troops were supported by Soviet artillery fire in the operation to recapture Zebak. Sayyed Najmuddin thought that the Soviets would not intervene but he proved to be wrong. Najmuddin says that the Kabul regime has fewer troops in Zebak than last year but has mined several areas.
     Jurm city had been repaired by the people and one could not see any sign of war. In Baharak the Mujahideen had permitted the building a new market.
     Commander Najmuddin had forbidden growing opium poppy in Jurm. This year no poppy was cultivated in the area. The Mujahideen decision, based on religious requirements, was fully supported by the local Ulama.
     Sayyed Najmuddin gives an impression of a mature leader. He faced many problems during the Soviet occupation. In 1986 he was driven out of his base. He came into contact with other commanders. His contacts with Commander Masood have had an effect on his way of thinking. Now he mixes military operations with cultural work and struggles for creation of a civil administration to serve the people. He thinks about all Afghanistan instead of his valley alone. He leads a simple life. People call him "Aagha Sahib” and respect him because he is a sayyed, a descendant of the family of the Prophet of Islam. He has gathered a group of educated people to help him run his administration.
     Sayyed Najmuddin has firm control over Jurm and Baharak but his relations with the neighboring Zardiw valley, which is controlled by Hezb (Hikmatyar) and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf), are tense. The tension between the two has helped the Kabul regime to survive in Zebak and Faizabad. Najmuddin is in favor of a fair solution which guarantees the rights of both sides, so that he can turn against the communists.
     He has formed a battalion of 500 men. Troops are being trained by his officers.
     Talks between different Jami'at commanders in Badakhshan for forming better unity continues. Aryanpoor, Basir Khan and Najmuddin met one month ago, to discuss their relations and ways of improving them.
                                            Iranian diplomat killed in Lahore
    An Iranian diplomat was gunned down in Lahore, Pakistan, on December 19. Police have made several arrests but there is no information about die identity of the culprits and their motives for the murder.
    Sadiq Ganji, the Director of the Cultural Office of Iran in Lahore, was killed when he was entering a local hotel to attend a cultural function organized to say farewell to him. He was about to return to his country. An Iranian student accompanying him was seriously injured in the incident.
    Pakistani officials condemning the murder have promised to punish those involved the murder. The Iranian government has accused anti-Islamic and anti-Iran elements in the assassination of its diplomat. Ganji's body was flown to Tehran for burial.
                                            Pakistan, USSR hold talks on Afghanistan
    The Prime Minister of Pakistan , Mian Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, has said talks between Pakistan and the Soviet Union would soon be held to discuss the problem of Afghanistan, APP reported.
    He said the Pakistan government's stand on Afghanistan remained un changed. Pakistan wants a government in Afghanistan which is acceptable to the people of that country, to pave the way for the return of refugees to their homes.
    He said the Pakistan government had been in constant touch on this issue with the United Nations, U.S.A, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the representatives of the Afghan Mujahideen.
                                    ‘Melp us publish
                                    ATgMWCews!
                                 PCease sendyour donations to die fothmring account numBer:
                                    fEZ&HD Account 735-37 9(aBiB ‘Bank.Ltd. ‘IehkaC'BaCa, tPesfazoar Pakistan
Vol 7, No 2
January 15,1991
 Sharif reaffirms Pakistan’s support for Mujahideen
    Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has said Iran, Pakistan and Turkey should work together for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan which is acceptable to Afghans.
    In an opening speech to the meeting of foreign ministers of the three countries in Islamabad, he said despite the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, conflict continues, and more than five million Afghan refugees still live in Pakistan and Iran.
    He said the past two years have shown that the refugees will not go back until a government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan is established. He said the three countries must work together so that the independent, sovereign, Islamic and non-aligned character of Afghanistan is fully restored.
    Talking to the National Assembly of Pakistan, Foreign Minister Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan said Pakistan’s Afghan policy rests on two pillars - a political settlement in Afghanistan and support for the Mujahideen until Afghans have won independence.
    He said he and Shevardnadze during their last meeting had decided to consult each other on all questions, including Afghanistan, which was the only impediment in the way of better relations with Moscow.
    Meanwhile Mujahideen leaders met the Iranian foreign minster, Ali Akbar Velayati, in Islamabad and discussed the Afghan issue. He assured Afghan leaders of Iran's support. In the meeting several Afghan leaders including Prof. Rabbani, Maulawi Khalis and Prof. Mujaddidi were present.
    The Mujahideen leaders also met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and discussed with him the situation in Afghanistan. This was the first meeting Of resistance leaders with Nawaz since-was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan.
Soviet pilots still bomb Mujahideen
    A reliable source told AFGHANews that Soviet pilots are still involved in combat missions and the Red Army is involved in black marketing and drug trafficking.
    According to the source, convicted Soviet pilots are given a choice between going to Afghanistan and imprisonment. Soviet pilots fly jets in combat missions against the Mujahideen from the regime air base in Mazar-i-Sharif.
    Soviet pilots bringing supplies to Kabul are paid $300 in hard currency, the source said. On the way back, they smuggle gold, carpets, hard currency and drugs to the Soviet Union. Smuggling is on such a large scale that high Red Army involvement cannot be ruled out.
    The Soviet Union supplies food and other essential goods to Kabul and each day dozens of Soviet transport planes bring supplies to Kabul.
Afghans condemn invasion of their country by USSR
    Afghan Mujahideen and refugees in Pakistan and Iran commemorated the occupation of their country by the Red Army by holding protest rallies on the 11th anniversary of the invasion A huge meeting was organized by the AIG in Jalozai refugee camp outside Peshawar. Prof; Sayyaf and Prof. Rabbani, AIG prime minister and reconstruction minister, were the main speakers.
    Prof. Sayyaf said continued Soviet military and economic support to the Kabul regime shows that Moscow is determined to prevent formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    He criticized Saudi Arabia and Kuwait for giving economic aid to the Soviet Union while Moscow was still involved in killing Muslims in Afghanistan.' •
    Prof. Rabbani, Jami’at leader, talking about the positive aspects of the Afghan people's uprising against the Soviet invaders, said Jehad played a key role in awakening people in Palestine, Kashmir and Eastern Europe to stand against occupation and injustice. He said that the Mujahideen were facing difficulties due to a decrease in assistance from outside.
    Prof. Rabbani said the fall of the Kabul regime was imminent, but he advised the Mujahideen to correct their
 mistakes and forge unity among themselves to bring victory closer.
     A resolution was passed in which the participants demanded continuation of the armed struggle against the communist regime and rejected the possibility of any deal with Kabul. An effigy of Najib was set on fire at the end of the meeting.
     Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) held a separate meeting in Warsak camp to condemn the Soviet invasion.
     About two hundred women belonging to a SAZA (a pro-Chinese communist faction) held a rally in Quetta condemning both die Kabul regime and Mujahideen parties.
     Thousands of Afghans held a procession in Tehran to condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Similar processions ^vere also held in other cities of Iran.
     The Iranian president, in a message which was read out in the Friday prayer gathering, praised the struggle of Afghans against the Soviet occupation.
     Commander Ismail Khan, in message on this occasion, said that the Afghans' struggle against the Soviets had contributed to the changes in Eastern Europe.
            Turn to page (2)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
    News
From The Battlefields
Badghis Province Baghlan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami’at killed 16 enemy troops, including one militia commander, and wounded four soldiers in Bom Valley on December 30, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    The Mujahideen seized 80 Kalashnikov rifles, five P.K machine-guns, two ZPU machine-guns (14.6 mm) and 50 boxes of ammunition.
    One junior Mujahideen commander and two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
 Panj shir Valley
    Two young men lost their legs in two separate mine explosions in Panjshir one month ago.
    Edi Mohammad, 30, lost his second leg in a mine explosion on a hill near his village in Rukha. He was admitted to hospital. He had lost his first leg in 1982 in a mine explosion.
    Shoaib Mohammad, 17, lost his legs in a mine explosion in the same village.
    Mines planted by the Soviets continue to claim the lives of the people in Panjshir. So far, no mine clearing team trained by the UN has gone to Panjshir to clear the valley of the deadly mines.
 Kabul Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed three power pylons, two posts, two tanks and one truck of the enemy and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy soldiers in Soorobi District on January 4, Commander Anwar reported.
    The Mujahideen also pounded regime positions in Soorobi District with heavy weapons, and fighting continued as this report was filed.
    Soorobi is located on the Kabul-Jalalabad road. There are two hydroelectric power plants in Soorobi which provide part of the power for Kabul city. .
    A regime attack to establish new security posts in Baghlan has been repulsed by the Mujahideen from Jami’at, commander Mullah Shams reported.
    In fighting which began on December 23 and continued for six days, 35 enemy soldiers were killed, 50 were inured and six were captured.
    The Kabul regime attacked the residential areas controlled by the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, killing 16 civilians and wounding 65. The Mujahideen lost six men and 10 Mujahideen were wounded. Twenty houses were destroyed by enemy artillery fire.
 Kandahar Province
    A bomb blast in Kandahar killed five people and injured six. Radio Kabul reported. The radio report blamed the Mujahideen for the explosion.
 Snowstorm kills five Mujahideen
    A snowstorm killed five Mujahideen and six others suffered frostbite in Toopkhana Pass on the Badakhshan border two weeks ago , a Jami'at source reported.
    About two hundred Mujahideen from Badakhshan started their journey from Shah Salim, a village on Pak-Afghan border. Most of them had . crossed the pass when the storm started, forcing about 50 Mujahideen to return to Chitral. Those with frostbite were treated in hospital. All those killed or suffering from frostbite were from Badakhshan Province and affiliated to Jami'at
    BBC put the figure of casualties at more than 200, causing worry for many Mujahideen families in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
    Toopkhana Pass is usually safe and last year it was open until January 8.
     The unusually severe cold and heavy snowfall has caused the deaths of 17 Afghan refugees, mainly children, in twd refugee camps in Baluchistan.
     MIDIA, the AIG News Agency, reported 36 people travelling in a truck to Helmand froze to death.
     UNHCR has taken additional relief measures to help refugees in Baluchistan to cope with severe cold weather. Sixty health centers have been reactivated and extra blankets are provided to Afghan refugees. Refugees in Baluchistan have reported that they are facing shortages of fuel.
 Invasion condemned
                                                       From page (1)
     Radio Moscow called the Soviet invasion of 1979 a mistake in which many Soviet citizens were killed. It also reported that in a Moscow church, a memorial service was held for those who lost their lives in Afghanistan. The Kabul regime kept silent about the invasion.
     The Soviet’ Union invaded Afghanistan on December 27, 1979 to prevent the fall of the communist regime in Kabul. The leader of the communist regime, Amin, was replace by another puppet ruler, Babrak Karmal, who was brought from exile by the Soviet army. Afghans resisted the invasion and as a result of fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviet troops, more than a million people I6st their lives, five million Afghans became refugees* outside Afghanistan and 75% of the towns and villages were destroyed Soviets were forced to withdraw then-troops by February 15, 1988, but con tinued to help the Kabul regime. Soviet advisors are involved in combat activi ties against the Mujahideen and Soviet assistance to Kabul reaches up to 300 million dollars per month.
 Regime to resume natural gas export
     The Kabul regime will resume exports of natural gas to the Soviet Union in the coming months, Moscow Radio reported.
     Exports of natural gas were stopped on security grounds in February 1989, immediately after Soviet troops left Afghanistan.
     If the gas exports are resumed, it will help the Kabul regime to pay for some of the goods it buys from the Soviet Union.
     A regime source said Soviet experts have started repair work on the pipeline.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
Wisdom
                                   t sages
■P r----   
L- AFGHAN  
   ROVERBS 
Soft teacher spoils children
     In the West, I saw a teacher - a sour-faced, embittered, unpleasant beggar of a man, self-indulgent and cruel. To look at him was to feel sick, and to hear him chant the Quran was enough to make one regret being a Muslim! A group of young boys and girls were under his harsh control, not allowed to augh or even squeek. He slapped their pretty faces and beat them viciously.
     I heard that his behavior was found out and he was dismissed.
     They handed over his class to a pious, gentle and good man who never spoke unless he had to, and had never said anything to offend anybody. The children forgot the fear inspired by the first teacher and found the second
 teacher to be an angel; so they became little devils. They knew he was soft, so they stopped studying and spent most of their time playing. Instead of writing on their slates, they broke them on each others pates.
     Two weeks later, I was passing by thp mosque gateway and was shocked to see the first teacher reinstated and once again at the head of the class.
     " Lord save us all!" I said. ” Why have they put that ghoul in charge of these poor little angels?" An old man overheard me and said: " Do you know what the king had inscribed on his son's slate when he sent him to school? The severity of the school master is better than a father's love."
Soviet mother gets letter
from
 the
     In 1983 the mother and father of a soldier fighting in Afghanistan are summoned by the local government in Mikob city near the Black Sea, and a sealed coffin was delivered to them. They were told the body of their son who was serving in Afghanistan was inside the coffin. The family buried the body without opening it because they were told to do so.
     The soldier came to Afghanistan in 1982. After serving eight months in Bagram he defects to the Mujahideen.
     Very soon he converted to Islam and was renamed Islamuddin. During the seventh offensive he was sent to Nooristan. In Nooristan he learned Islam from Maulawi Abdurrazaq. Later he continued his studies in Paryan, the upper party of Panjshir.
     Later Islamuddin decided to fight against the communists and started to work in the commando unit of commander Masood.
     By permission from Masood he sent a letter to his family through a Mujahideen contact in Kabul. The letter was posted to the family. When the family read the letter they were surprised. Islamuddin’s parents rushed to the graveyard and open the grave to see
 what was inside the sealed coffin. To their surprise they found the coffin full of dust. The word spread quickly and the local authorities arrested the father. The local people gathered and put pressure on the government to release the father of the missing soldier.
      Islamuddin's mother wrote a long letter to her son telling him the whole story. She wrote she was extremely happy that his son was alive.
                                                                                                      In her letter she said the Mujahideen must be nice people be
            Turn to page ( 4 )
 The seeker is the finder.
 Meaning: "Seek and Ye shall find."
 Smart people get the point from a single hint.
 Meaning: A word to the wise is sufficient.
                 ** auj
 What comes from the heart, goes to the heart.
 Meaning: Love begets love.
                                                        \Jj* Ki
 Death is better than a dog's life.
 Meaning: One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 " -'"jn
||al Apostle (p.b.u.h) sard: "Shall«
..4^.           ^ ^       . v..  •. Asj.* \:v •• ■. s


                                                                                                                                vTVC.::'$ |§
 m
■Hfiald:/To Join paftriers in worship™
I ^            - -     i E3 s Em ■ H i
      Altai, out tA              .   \
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 2, January 15,1991, page @
• •  =11 . . mm
rwr^t
          22 
           \ 
Editorial    
V_______     
 Will Gorby lose Peace award?
    Gorbachev was honored with the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize in recognition of his 'contribution to peace'. It was a great honor for a communist leader to win this prize.
    As we said at that time, Gorbachev was a poor choice for the prize because of his involvement in Afghan war since 1985, and his oppressive rule at home and the uncertain nature of his reforms.
    The recent developments in the Baltic states must have disappointed Gorbachev's Western admirers who projected him as a peace-loving leader. The West, which tolerated the heavy-handedness of Gorbachev in the Islamic republics of Azarbaijan and Tajikistan as an excuse for suppressing the wave of fundamentalism, is now facing a new situation in relation with the Baltic states which are Christian , European and were forcibly annexed to the Soviet Union by Stalin as a part of a secret deal with Adolf Hitler. Gorbachev has chosen the peak of the Gulf crisis for the crackdown on the nationalist movements in the Baltic states. The major Western powers are involved in a showdown with Iraq.
    Moscow's leaders have always been good in choosing the right time for offensive activities. For example, they invaded Afghanistan during the Christmas holidays of 1979 to minimize the international reaction.
    If Gorbachev's involvement in Afghanistan and crackdown on nationalist movements in Azarbaijan and Central Asia did not disqualify him from receiving the Nobel award, will the bloodshed in the Baltic states force the Nobel Committee to withdraw the Prize which was given to the wrong person in the first place?
 BBC's poor reporting hurts Afghans
    Nation to Nation' is the name Of a video tape prepared by the BBC about its World Service. The tape praises the BBC for its objective reporting and crosschecking of facts. But recent BBC reporting from Kabul contradicts these claims.
    Many Afghans listen to the BBC's Pashtu and Persian services and consider the BBC a reliable source of information. This reputation makes the BBC's substandard reporting very misleading.
    Here are some recent examples:                              i
    •     Dipak Tripathi, BBC’s special reporter in Kabul, reported that after the agreement between Hezb and Jami'at in Peshawar, Jami'at killed about 20 Hezb commanders in the North. The Mujahideen of both parties do not know of any such killing. He gave KHAD, the regime secret police, as the source of news. Using a secret service as source made the BBC into a propaganda tool of the regime.
    •     Tripathi reported a clash between Hezb and Jami'at north of Kabul. The report added that Masood was close to the area of conflict, 30 kilometers from the city. Both parties rejected the news; Commander Masood has not been that close to Kabul recently. The source, again, must have been KHAD.
    ■ Dipak reported a meeting between Khaliqyar, regime prime minister, and some elders of Uruzgan. Dozens of such meetings are reported daily by Kabul regime radio and TV. These meetings are routine propaganda moves with no news value. BBC speculation about an attack on Tareen Kot, in connection with this news, is no more than assisting the regime's psychological war against the Mujahideen.
    . Poor reporting from Kabul might have something to do with the BBC reporter's nationality. Dipak is a naturalized Briton of Indian birth and has close contacts with the Indian embassy in Kabul. The Indian embassy is the source of much disinformation aimed at hurting the Mujahideen cause. If Dipak is not intentionally involved in anti-Mujahideen propaganda, his lack of information
                                           Turn to page (6)
Ogata appointed UNHCR chief
   Prof. Sadako Ogata from Japan will be the next UNHCR chief, UN sources reported. This is the first time that a high UN position has been held by a woman.
   Before her appointment to the new job, Ogata had served as a professor of international relations in a university in Japan, the head of the UN Human Rights Commission, and Japan’s Ambassador to the UN. She has written many books about refugees which are popular in Japan.
   UNHCR is responsible for looking after 15 million refugees all over the world, one third of whom are Afghans. The UNHCR is facing shortages of funds to carry out its humanitarian activities.
   Earlier, the UN Secretary had proposed an Indian national for the UNHCR post, which was opposed by the major donor countries. They complained that UN did not consult them about the choice. The UN Secretary General was forced to reverse his decision, and proposed Ogata.
   Appointment of an Indian national for the job would have been a bad news for Afghan refugees and their main host, Pakistan. India sympathizes with the Kabul regime and its relations with Pakistan are poor.
Letter from
V         V
                                                             son
          From page (3) cause they did not kill her son.
    She told her son that she was not angry why he converted into Islam. " I pray for your safety my son", she wrote.
    Islamuddin said although the people in his town were Christian his family did not believe in God. He thinks that Soviet society must have undergone great changes because an nonbeliever has started to pray.
    Islamuddin loves his family and want to see his parents convert to Islam..
    When asked what he was planning to do in the future, he said he wanted to be with the Mujahideen.
    Islamuddin had attended school for 15 years and had been trained in the use of armored cars for one year before he was sent io Afghanistan.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©

HOLOm TW^VHJSV BE* . TYPO!
Afghan diplomat criticizes UN human rights reporting
     Dr. Felix Ermacora, the UN special rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan, is currently visiting Afghanistan and Pakistan to gather information about human right situation.
     In Kabul he visited regime officials, including Yaqoubi, the minister of state security (WAD).
     Abdur Rahman Pasjwak, a former Afghan diplomat at the UN, says Dr. [Ermacora's reports about the human rights situation in Afghanistan does not
 reflect the realities. He told VOA that when the UN special rapporteur goes to Kabul, regime officers accompany him when he meets the people. "No one can speak freely out of fear of the regime officers," Pasjwak said.
     He said when Dr. Ermacora has finished his report he shows it to the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime censors the report before it is published.
     He said the UN should make arrangements for the people to talk without fear reprisals by the regime.
Indian trade minister discusses
ecomomic
     Indian trade Minister Subramanian Swami reached Kabul on December 30 as the head of a delegation to discuss trade with the Kabul regime.
     This is the first Indian minister to I visit Kabul since Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar assumed office. The sale of 50,000 tons of wheat and 400 | buses were the main topics of discussion between the two sides.
     Swami met with Najib and delivered Prime Minister Shekhar’s letter to ! him. He said bilateral trade between the two countries via Iran will increase. Iranian cooperation with Kabul is a key factor in any major trade partnership between Delhi and Kabul because Mujahideen control transit roads passing through Pakistan.
     Relations between India and the Kabul regime have always been cordial land the current government of India
                         regime
 may try to improve relations even further with Kabul because it has come to power with the blessings of the Congress (I) party, a close partner of Najib.
 Kabulis facing food shortages
     People in Kabul have faced severe food and fuel shortages recently.
     The people have been queuing for food and fuel oil for many hours in below- zero temperatures.
     The shortage, made itself felt when Kabul was hit with extremely harsh winter weather. Snow in the city was 18 inches deep and temperatures fell to 20 degrees below zero.
     The Kabul regime has said the main reason for the shortages is lack of transportation.
     The regime says it provides 200 tons of wheat flour daily to the bakers in the city.
      Jami'at              leader
  Rabbani left Islamabad for Libya And Turkey on January 7 at the invitationI.of,.Islamic; .parties in these ctountne£ He will x&oss the situation in /d                      the
  leaders of the Islamic movement: in lieseeauntries, , > V
  ||||v PLO special ehs^ ered a sword as a,present from Yasir Aiafat to Najthullah, Radio K4bi^ ie-Jdrted.The sward, whihiis with verses of holy Quran, ?ymboiiz| » the close ties between Arafat and] tfqjib. Arafat’s envoy also made a statement" tn Kabul supporting the
  peace"                              M


  | A|ghan students studying in Sudanese universities have fomted a| union to organize their activities iri support of lehad . Bashir Ahmad) Asski has been elected chairman of the Ai^inJ Mujhhideen Student's Union.                            .

      One hundred tons of clothes ark. Ibod donated ;^ l&n's Red Crescent Society waj handed ever to the Kabul regime’s Red Crescent Society in the border town of Tayibat on January ^ Radio Kabufteported. /||f|(j

   IjHezb Island (Khalis) fca£;;:tiah^:
                                                                                                              province, Malawi Youms Khalis
  BWomens :• I:  elation ; : " : "
                                                                                                        erf" diseus|
 j:pdn ^ n£|f senu^'-:drpfuzed•#' tte Women’s Branch of Jamfafc Island Afghanistan an December 2# In Peshawar,'             '   H
 ;v:.;;;; The participants stressed the need far evolving an Islamic education system.               ■
                                                                                    !||||pn;:^ .legally. | expelled
wm
AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15,1991, page ©
 From the diary of Jehad
Part (4)
People in Panjshir suffer from land mines, housing shortages
 MohammadEs'haq
     After Mujaddidi left for Peshawar, I started my journey to Panjshir. Crossing the Yellow Pass was a tiring experience. After two days of walking I reached Jeshta village in Paryan where a jeep was waiting to take me to Rukha. Construction of the Paryan road has had a positive effect on the life of the people. Many shops have been opened in Paryan, from which people from Badakhshan and Nooristan buy their needs. The road has been built by the Reconstruction Committee of SC with the help of local people. Construction work to extend the road to the upper part of the valley continued but the work was slow because the committee did not have any bulldozers.
     One could see the effect of the road on the architecture of the newly-built houses. Iron gates and large windows were new to the houses in Paryan.
     Besides private jeeps, trucks brought goods for the local shopkeepers. Mujahideen also transported the goods they brought from Pakistan on trucks to the lower part of the valley. The Mujahideen wanted to connect Panjshir to Andarab, in the North, with a road through the famous Khawak pass. Part of the work has been done. Nomads (Kochis) who spent Summer in Panjshir helped in the construction.
     Panjshir looked greener than last year. All the farmlands were cultivated. The people had started to plant new trees and irrigate what had survived the Soviet occupation. It will take many years before the new trees produce fruit, however. :
     The major problem is building houses for the returning refugees. People had started to build their houses but it is very expensive, and there were shortages of manpower and lumber.
     Four major mosques were under repair in the valley. The reconstruction costs were paid jointly by the local wealthy people and Jami'at. -
     Mines were posing a threat to the life of the people.'When I was in Rukha, a donkey and its driver were hit by a land mine. I also heard other incidents of recent mine explosions in which many people were killed. Another problem is the appalling condition of the Panjshir road.
     In the upper part of Panjshir .life had returned to normal. Villages were full of people and shops were full of goods of all types. In the three villages in the upper part of the valley, I saw a lot of cars parked on both, sides of the road. People in these villages are doing well because they work in emerald mines in their area. They are paying a tax of 10 to 20 percent to Jami'at, 50% of which will go in support of the families of martyred and disabled people. Schools and hospitals were doing their work normally. I met with the chief administrator of Panjshir, Saranwal Mahmood Khan. He was appointed to this job in 1985. He has been quite successful in running the affairs of the people. He is a graduate of the Faculty of Law at Kabul
 University. He is famous for his humility gested an easier solution and tha and kindness.
      I also met with two judges of the Central Zone of SC, Maulawi Abdul Basir and Maulawi Fazel Wahab, who have served in their posts since the beginning of the Jehad.
      The best part of my trip was a few days' stay in my beloved village. Only 10 percent of the pre-war population now live there. Most of the houses were still destroyed. The mosque was the first building re-built by the Mujahideen. Here 20 students attended classes which are taught by Maulawi Mohammad Musa, a local religious scholar. Near the village is a school which had classes up to the sixth grade.
 Construction of a hall was completed to accomodate the yearly seminars for the teachers of the Central Zone of the SC.
      Farmers were busy irrigating their lands, and many cars and trucks laden with people and goods passed the single road through the valley. Mujahideen in Panjshir do not carry weapons if they are not on duty. A boarding school has been opened in Rukha in which more than Fifty students study Islamic subjects. Prices were high but one'could find most essential goods.
      To get information about the situation in Shamali, I visited Gulbahar and Jabul Seraj. I was accompanied by Bismillah, the Deputy Head of the Central Zone of the SC.
      At the mouth of the Panjshir valley the Mujahideen search all vehicles and identify all the passengers. This is the job of the Intelligence Committee of the SC. Each person leaving the valley must have a pass which is issued by the area commander.
 The purpose is to stop infiltration of enemy agents into the valley.
      Gulbahar bazaar, at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, was bigger than last year.
 From this market people from several districts buy their needs. Business was flourishing. An important factor in this prosperity is its relative peace and security. The Bazaar is about 10 kilometers from Jabul Seraj, through which passes the Salang highway. The Mujahideen have established many schools in Gulbahar. A school for
 memorizing the Holy Quran has also <                            •              ^
 opened. I spent the night there. It was calm C |i OWT1 ITT I 1 I except for occasional artillery fire by the re- ^ w V X J. gime against the Mujahideen in Salang. In die morning we took a car to Jabul Seraj, a town at the mouth of the Salang Valley. The headquarters of the fifth corps and second division of the enemy is located there. We had our breakfast in a house not more than 100 meters from enemy security posts.
 Electricity was produced in the power plant run by regime. Delicious Afghan cheese and kabob was served in a two story building overlooking the Salang Highway.
      The Kabul regime controls Jabul Seraj Cement Factory. The Mujahideen needed cement for reconstruction work in the liberated areas. The Kabul regime wanted to stop this by imposing control over distribution. The chairman of the factory told a person sent by the Mujahideen that he had no control over distribution. He said Prime Minister Khaliqyar was in charge of the distribution! It was interesting to learn of this duty of the so-called non-party prime minister of Najib. This may look strange — to involve a prime minister in cement distribution — but due to the prevailing situation in Afghanistan that is the only job available to him.
      The Mujahideen in Jabul Seraj sug-
that was using force to get cement. They believed a few rounds of mortar will force the regime to give what they needed. "Force is the only language that communists know," they said.
After spending one week in Panjshir and Shamali, I started my journey back to Pakistan. In four days I reached the border.
Commander Masood had reached the border one day before. He wanted to talk with commanders about his participation in the council of commanders.
I remained in the border area for five days. The commanders' meeting was held and they agreed on a new strategy. It was obvious that the commanders participating n meeting knew the problems they were facing and were responsive to suggestions to solve them. About 30 major commanders had participated in the meeting. This was the first time that Masood had participated in their council.
                                                         Editorial
                                                            From page(4)
Muajhideen propaganda, his lack of information about Afghan situation and his trust on Indian diplomats are the main reasons for his misleading reporting from Kabul.
But Dipak is not the only person to blame for poor reporting from Kabul. Those setting in the Bush House know a lot Afghanistan if a reporter is making mistakes why they do not correct it.
The last BBC's in accurate report which originated from Pakistan, not Kabul, was the story of 200 Mujahideen' death in snow storm in Badakhshan province. Only five people were killed in the incident. This report provided propaganda material for the Radio Kabul and Radio Moscow at least for one week.
Herat glass
 Herat glass works were displayed in an exhibition of glass works in Washington DC, the first of its kind there in 50 years. Glass works from many other countries were also on display. Films and slides were shown about the art of glass manufacturing in Afghanistan.
 Prof. Brail, who made the film, said he sa\v a tiny glass manufacturing shop in Herat in 1968. Ten years later he went with a camera crew to film the process. He said glass was made in this factory,by traditional ways.
 He said: " One will be surprised to see beautiful things made by such primitive methods."
 He said the world depicts Afghans which as very brave people on the battlefield. It is true that they are very brave people, but in their daily life they are a totally different type of people. They are artists, poets and very kind people, he said.
                           AFGHANews Vol7, No 2, January 15, 1991, page Q
 Iran’s envoy in Islamabad speaks to Al-Jehad
      Jawad Mansoori, Iran Ambassador in            Al-Jehad: There is no doubt that the refugees continue to enter Iran. Some refu-
 Islamabad, gave an interview to Al-Jehad, Kabul regime exists, but does Islam permit gees who returned to Afghanistan from an Arabic magazine. The interview was the Mujahideen to involve criminals in the Pakistan some time ago became refugees published in the 72nd issue. Here is the full political settlement of Afghan problem? in Iran in search for work or because of text:                                              Mansoori:  The Mujahideen need the harsh conditions in Afghanistan.
      Al-Jehad: Please throw some-light on support of the Afghan people for their polit- Al-Jehad: These people enter Iran the Islamic Republic's policy towards the ical activities. The Kabul regime now from Pakistan secretly. If they are caught Afghan issue.                               claims that it has the support of a section of by Iranian border police or Revolutionary
      Mansoori: The Islamic Republic has the Afghan people. This indicates that the Guards, they will be imprisoned or ex-always opposed the occupation of Islamic political activities of the Mujahideen have pelled. Why aren't Afghans allowed to en-tenitories by foreigners. Based on this prin- failed to disprove the claims of the Kabul ter Iran openly and legally? ciple, we opposed the occupation of regime. Anyway, we reject Marxist regimes Mansoori: The Islamic Republic, de-Afghanistan by the Soviet Union because based on our Islamic beliefs and consider spite the great difficulties it is facing, has Afghanistan was not only an Islamic coun- them tyrannic and and-Islamic. If elections given refuge to two million Afghans. Are try but a neighbor of Iran as well.         are held in Afghanistan and all people take other Islamic countries, with no such diffi-
      We are very pleased by the victory of part in it, the people of Afghanistan, natu- culties as Iran, ready to accept 100,000 Afghan people over a superpower which rally, will vote for the Muslims and will re- Afghan refugees? Is the US, with all its had occupied their country. The Islamic ject Marxists. This would bring a great po- claims of friendship with the Afghans, Republic, despite many problems it has litical victory for the Mujahideen.                ready to allow 100,000 Afghan refugees to
 been facing, has helped Afghans a lot in Al-Jehad: Who should supervise elec- settle in America?
 the past eleven and half years. We want to dons in Afghanistan?                                 Al-Jehad: It is Said that Iran give as-
 see Afghanistan to return once more to the Mansoori: A delegation from the UN, sistance to only Shia parties and there is ev-rank of independent, nonaligned and die Islamic conference or a combined dele- idence to show that this view is correct. Islamic countries and to have good relations gation from the two can do the job. The What is the reason for such a policy? with its neighbors.                         Mujahideen can ask the UN to form a dele- Mansoori: Iran does not take into con-
      The Islamic Republic believes that gation from its Islamic countries' members. sideration the Sunni and Shia factors in its there is a need that the Mujahideen should Al-Jehad:           Many  Mujahideen and foreign policy. Its policy is designed to pro-
 make their decisions independently. While Afghan refugees complain about the way tect Muslims as a whole. For example, we Iran does not interfere in the internal affairs Iranian security organizations treat them, support the people of Palestine, Kashmir of Afghanistan, it asks others to do the They cannot freely move from one city to and other Muslim nations who are not Shia. same. We only gave advice to the the other, and also Iranian authorities do not In the case of Afghans we also support Mujahideen.                                 allow opening of schools for Afghan chil- Muslims and our support does not have a
                                             dren. What do you say about these charges? sectarian base.
      Al-Jehad: Do you have a proper pro-           Mansoori: I believe the difficulties      But there are facts which cannot be ig-
 gram for the settlement of the Afghan you mentioned are only in the way of those nored. In Afghanistan, the Shias were op-problem?                                    who misuse the facilities provided to them, pressed by the previous regimes.
      Mansoori: Firstly,the Afghan issue is We help the Mujahideen and the refugees as Unfortunately the Mujahideen ignore Shias. the unity among the Mujahideen and end of much as we can, but unfortunately involve- They are not ready to let Shias be part of outside interference in their affairs. US and ment of some Afghans in drug trafficking their Alliances and refuse to give them their other foreign powers' interference was a big and other illegal acts, under the name of ref- Islamic rights. We are facing an important blow to the Islamic revolution in ugees, forces the security organizations to problem and if we do not support Afghan Afghanistan. The Mujahideen should resist impose strong measures. The Mujahideen Shias now, tomorrow a government will US interference in their affairs the same and refugees will not face difficulties be- come to power in Afghanistan which will way they resisted the Soviet occupation of cause they are refugees. Refugee children resume the killing of Shias. This is the rea-Afghanistan.                                are permitted to study in all schools run by son for our stand on this issue, otherwise
      Secondly, the Mujahideen should real- the Iranian government Special schools we do not bother ourselves with Sunni and ize that one party or group alone cannot have been opened for refugees living in Shia problems^ We have not helped any rule Afghanistan. The Mujahideen need to camps. Authorities might have not given party in any part of the world just because agree on a common program. No permission for opening schools under spe- it was Shia.
 Mujahideen party should claim to be more cial circumstances but in general Afghan Al-Jehad: You support Hezbullah in Islamic than the rest, and all should refrain children in Iran do not face problems in go- Lebanon and earlier you supported Amal, from abusing other Mujahideen parties. ing to school.                                  .  both of which are Shia parties.
      Thirdly, the Mujahideen, in the light of     Al-Jehad: It is true that the Iranian      Mansoori: Is not Amal Shia while we
 recent years' experiences, should recognize government helps refugees, but that your support Hezbullah against it? In Iran, hun-who .are their friends and who are their government will not be able to give enough dreds of counter-revolutionaries have been enemies.                                    assistance to all of than? Why does the executed, all of whom were Shias. We sup-
      Al-Jehad: The situation in the world Islamic Republic not allow foreign relief or- port Islam not Sunni and Shia. and region will have an effect on the ganizations to open their offices in Iran?              Al-Jehad:  At   the beginning of the
 Mujahideen's decisions. Can the Mansoori: The Islamic Republic will Islamic Revolution the majority of Muslims Mujahideen make decisions that are not af- accept donations of relief assistance to the supported it , but because of harsh policies fected by outside factors?                  Afghan refugees by the international relief of Iran, it lost support of the majority of
      Mansoori: If we accept the theory that organizations provided it is distributed by Muslims. In most causes you support Shia it is not possible for the Mujahideen to the Iranian government We do not allow in- parties against the Sunni groups. For exam-make decisions which are not affected by dependent activities of foreign relief organi- pie, during Bazargari and Bani Sadr govem-outside factors, then the Mujahideen will al- zation in Iran because it has been proved ments. Iran give support to Hezb-i-Islami ways remain dependent on foreigners. It is that these organizations indulge in activities (Hikmatyar) and Jami'at Island but after the not possible for the Mujahideen to make de- that contradict the objectives of the Afghan Islamic Republic Party took power Iran's cisions under outside pressure now and to-  Muslim nation. What happened in the support was limited to Shia parties,
 morrow make independent decisions.            Peshawar refugee camps proves that our           Mansoori: Your information is limit-
      Al-Jehad: The leaders of die Islamic policy is correct'                             ed. We reject support based on nationality
  Republic stress in their statements the need On the other hand, the Afghan refu- and sect. We want to see in Afghanistan for dialogue between all sides in the gees in Iran do not need much foreign assis- that every Afghan's voice is heard irrespec-Afghan conflict. What do they mean by all tance because they can work in Iran, live of its sectarian connection, sides in the conflict? Does the communist    Afghan refugees live in the cities, among     Al-Jehad: Shia parties reject elections
  regime in Kabul have a right to sit down Iranians, and many Iranian women. Only a based on one person, one vote. They insist with the Mujahideen in negotiations?         fraction of Afghans live in refugee camps. that a specific number of seats should be
      Mansoori: If the Mujahideen were             Al-Jehad:  Two years ago some given to Shias in tire parliament. This leads
  united, no need to ask this question would Afghan families from Nimrooz Province to the division of Afghanistan based on have arisen and the Afghan problem would were forced to take refuge in Iran. But the sect. Why don’t you use your influence to have not been prolonged so far. After the Iranian authorities did not allow them,to en- persuade Shia parties to accept elections Soviet troops' withdrawal, even the Soviets ter Iran. Consequently, some of them died ' based on one person, one vote? themselves predicted the fall of the Kabul   because of hunger and cold weather.                 Mansoori: Solving Afghan problems
  regime within a short time. Now that the Doesn't this contradict the claims of Iran through elections based on one man, one Mujahideen have failed to defeat the Kabul that it helps the refugees?                  vote is the proper way. There are other
  regime, the regime is a reality that the         Mansoori:   I have no information ways, for example . instead of voting for in-
  Mujahideen have to deal with. The nature about this incident. It might have happened
  of the deal depends on the Mujahideen. under special conditions. Even now Afghan                    Tlim  tO  page (8)
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                     AFGHANews Vol 7, No 2, January 15, 1991, page ©                     
Soviets send food to Kabul                                                                                                               
despite shortages at home                                                                                                                
A British freelance journalist who has ganized by the regime in which a regime of-       Mansoori’s                                      
just returned from a 12-day trip to Kabul ficer read out a statement by a visiting       interview                                       
and Hairatan border town says he was PLO representative about Hezb Islami con-                            From page (7)                  
amazed by the amount of food supplies sent tact with the Kabul regime . It is said that  dividuals .people vote for a party and then     
by the Soviet Union to the Kabul regime the PLO at one stage mediated between            the party can send representatives to the as¬   
when Moscow itself was facing food Hezb and the Kabul regime and organized a             sembly based on the number of votes they        
shortages. meeting between the representatives of the                                    have gained.                                    
Peter Jouvenal found Hairatan a busy two sides in Baghdad, Iraq,                         Al-Jehad: There are indications that            
town in which many Soviet civilians Peter says the Kabul regime helps for-               Iran's policy towards the Kabul regime is       
worked. A bridge, usable by trucks and eign journalists to visit Afghanistan be-         becoming softer. Resumption of telephone        
trains, connects Hairatan with Soviet town cause it serves its interests. In the early   links between Tehran and Kabul, participa¬      
of Termiz, on the other side of the Amu years of occupation, only 'friendly'joumal-      tion by a regime delegation in a conference     
River. Goods trains bring fuel, food and ists were allowed to visit the government-      in Tehran and participation by Iranian dip¬     
other commercial commodities to Hairatan. controlled areas. He said most of the visit-   lomats in functions organized by the regime     
Peter was surprised by the vast amount ing journalists had no background informa-        in Kabul are some of these indications.         
of grain brought from Soviet Union to tion about the situation in Afghanistan and        What resulted in such a policy change?          
Hairatan. The Soviets have a consulate in this was the reason why their stories filed    Mansoori: In some of these steps the            
Hairatan. A canteen offered very cheap from Kabul were usually one-sided,                interest of the Afghan people has been the      
meals to Soviet citizens and UN officials He was provided with an official trans-        key factor. For example, telephone links be¬    
there. lator and this limited his contact with ordi-                                     tween Kabul and Tehran were resumed at          
Peter was permitted by the Soviet au- nary Afghans because people do not talk            the request of a large number of Afghan ref¬    
thorities to visit Termiz and he found the openly in the presence of regime's men.       ugees in Tehran who wanted to have a            
contrast between the two border towns The few people whom he talked to corn-             means to contact their families.                
striking. While everything was in abun- plained about economic difficulties and ex¬      Iran's government did not invite the re¬        
dance in Hairatan, shops in Termiz were pressed their wish to see the end of war.        gime delegation to Tehran. It was invited       
empty. He found Termiz like other cities of Life for ordinary residents of Kabul is      by the UN. This invitation has had no affect    
the Soviet Union. Peter visited Moscow very difficult. Government officials and          on our policy towards the Kabul regime .        
last year and saw shortages of essential party men are issued with special coupons       Participation by the regime delegation in       
commodities there. which make them entitled to subsidized                                the seminar does not mean its recognition       
Food and fuel were not the only com- fuel and food. While the price of food was          by us. We do not have diplomatic links          
modities sent by Soviets to their communist very high, Peter found that the price of al- with some other countries like Egypt,           
friends in Kabul. A large number of trucks, coholic drihks was very low, and alcohol     Jordan and Morocco, but their delegations       
tanks and artillery pieces were parked in was available both for foreigner and           take part in international seminars held in     
Hairatan ready for transportation to Kabul. Afghans.                                     Tehran.                                         
A similar amount of military hardware were All the petrol pumps in Kabul' were           Al-Jehad: If an international confer¬           
also seen in Mazar-i-Sharif, about 100 ki- closed . The army has taken over distribu-    ence is held in Tehran in which a delegation    
lometers from the border. tion of petrol and it seemed that the army                     from Israel is invited, do you accept it?       
Russian drivers transported food for was storing fuel for/nilitary consumption,          Mansoori: We will not agree with                
the UN from Termiz to Mazar. The road The other reason for the shortage is ade-          such a conference to be held in Tehran. If      
from Hairatan to Mazar seemed safe, at crease in the supply of fuel from the Soviet      we agreed with a conference organized by        
least during the day, and trucks moved un- Union. The pipeline bringing fuel from the    an international organization in which          
escorted. The UN has an office in Mazar Soviet border to Bagram is not operational       Israel is a member, its delegation can take     
which distributes food aid brought through anymore and fuel is brought by tankers to     part in it. N                                   
the Soviet Union in the cities and some are- die capital. Kabulis are facing long power  Al-Jehad: Does Iran support a coali¬            
as controlled by the Mujahideen. The food cuts. The important government officers        tion government in Kabul in which               
distributed by the UN is donated by and foreigners living in Kabul are exempted          Mujahideen, communists and pro-West ele¬        
Western countries. from power cuts.                                                      ments, headed by Zahir Shah, take part?         
Peter flew from Delhi to Kabul by an Peter came across some pro-                         Mansoori: Any step taken by the                 
Afghan Ariana Airlines flight Two at- Mujahideen people who were very critical           Mujahideen to solve their problems will not     
tempts to land in Kabul failed, once be- of die random rocket attacks on Kabul. He       be opposed by us. But Zahir Shah cannot         
cause of the incoming rockets and the next visited Indira Gandhi Hospital and saw only   help solving the Afghan problem. Those          
time because of bad weather. three wounded children who were burned                      who talk about Zahir Shah and his future        
Talking to the air crew, he learned that by flares dropped from Russian transport        role either do not have information about       
there were two airlines which .fly to Kabul, planes. This indicated that there were no   the realities of Afghanistan, or they do not    
Ariana Afghan Airlines and Soviet recent casualties from rocket attacks, some-           know Zahir Shah.                                
Aeroflot. Ariana planes fly to Prague, thing the regime would have tried to show         Al-Jehad: It seems that Iran prefers            
Moscow, Dubai and India. For security con- if there were.                                pro-West moderate parties over Islamist         
siderations Ariana planes are based outside He found Paghman in control of re-           (fundamentalist) parties. Is this because you   
Afghanistan and leave Kabul the same day gime militiamen. Paghman is totally de-         do not want to see a Sunni fundamentalist       
they arrive. strayed and almost deserted. The Kabul re¬                                  party in Kabul which will compete with the      
in Kabul, Peter attended a party given gime launched an attack last year to push         Islamic Republic of Iran, or you think Shias    
by the Soviet Novisty News Agency, visit- the Mujahideen out of the valley so that       will be better off under a pro-West govern¬     
ed Paghman, interviewed Najibullah and their guns are out of range,                      ment rather than undo: a Sunni fundamen¬        
met with die regime Prime Ministar, The Kabul regime officers accompany-                 talist government?                              
Khaliqyar. ing Peter tried to show their displeasure                                     Mansoori: You better ask this ques¬             
The Novisty party was attended by over die massive destruction of die resort             tion from those who do not have good rela¬      
many Afghans and around 10 Soviet jour- town, but to Peter this seemed hypocritical      tions with Iran.' We support all Afghans and    
nalists, most of whom had been posted in because the town was destroyed by the re-       treat them warmly. But some Afghan              
Afghanistan for a long time. They seemed gime's artillery and air force. He had visited  groups publish anti-Iran articles in their      
pro-regime. Paghman one year before with the                                             publications. We gave them permission to        
Najib's interview lasted for an hour Mujahideen and even spent three days in             open their offices in Tehran but they closed    
and a half, during which he repeated his Kabul during which he was helped by             them for reasons only known to themselves.      
old stories. Peter met with regime's Prime KHAD officers sympathetic to the              Al-Jehad: Some Shia parties complain            
Minister who moved on crutches and Mujahideen.                                           that Iran interferes in their internal affairs. 
looked exhausted. Some months ago he was On the way back to Kabul, Peter had a           The coalition of Shia parties has shifted its   
shot by the Mujahideen when he attended a short stay in Herat airport. He met a UN       office from Tehran to Peshawar. Is this ac¬     
meeting in Herat. He has not fully recov- worker in the airport who told him that        cusation valid?                                 
ered from the wounds. He also met with the heavy righting continued between the          Mansoori: We do not interfere in the            
leader of Salvation Society, Prof. Asghar, Mujahideen and regime troops close to the     affairs of our Afghan brothers. Those who       
who had opened his office in a hotel. He city.                                           shifted their offices to Peshawar, compared     
seemed unhappy with the regime because Peter is a freelance cameraman who                to the Wahdat party, form a minority. We        
his peace plan was not taken seriously by has made 52 trips to Afghanistan with the      do not know what they want but this is the      
Najib. The Salvation Society is a pro-Zahir Mujahideen since April 1980. He has visit-   habit of those who separate from a party, to    
Shah organization allowed to function in ed the North, Panjshir, north of Kabul,         say dungs which are not true.                   
Kabul. southern and eastern provinces to report                                                                                          
Peter attended a press conference or- war for many television networks.                                                                  
