V
[ IN THE NAME OP ALM10HTT ALLAH ]
AFGHANnews
 A EORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OE JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
     POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. /
        VOL. Ill, NO. 22, 13/11/1907. /*
                                                [cu
                                 FALL OF KERAN A MAJOR ACHIEVEMENT
The good news of the fall of Keran Garrison and elimination of enemy presence in # Hunjan valley was a major achievement for the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen liberated a strategic area from the presence of the enemy by a well-planned, well-prepared and surprise attack. Groups from four provinces took part in the operation. Most of the enemy troops numbering more than 566 men were captured ' alive and all their weapons and ammunition fell in the hand of the Resistance. More than that, very important documents have been captured from the enemy which reveals its informers, agents and threw light on the enemy plans. Mujahideen suffered onty little casualties.
It should be mentioned that such a victory is not an isolated incident. In one year this is the fourth garrison which fell in a similar manner. Mujahideen captured Ferkhar, NehrTn and Kalafgan Garrisons In similar attacks. The enemy was not able to re-establish them. The fifth Garrison In Pushghoor evacuated not to face a similar fate.
                                                       «c-v
Keran Garrison and the posts in Munjan area located in a strategically important area on the shortest road from the North to Pakistan.
The incident shows that the good work started by SCN (Supervisory Council of the North) is proving useful. Cooperation betwnen Mujahideen of different provinces is a reality. It also shows that the ability of the Mujahideen in planning, preparation and command of attacks involving hundreds of people has increased. Selection of the target (weak point of the enemy), good reconnaissance mobility and surprise are important factors in these attacks.
                   It is admirable to see that Mujahideen can hide their Intentions from the enemy.
In all four cases, movement of large groups of Mujahideen and great amount of weapons and ammunition have been involved.
By Clever manoeuvre the enemy intelligence has been fooled. Decipline before the attack and after the victory is maintained. Prisoners ore delivered to the judicial authorities and the spoils of war are collected and delivered to the responsible people.
As a result of these attacks, the morale of the Mujahideen and the civilian population has raised and those of the enemy has lowered. Capturing of a great amount of ammunition mokes the Mujahideen more self-sufficient. The new development in the North has posed a serious threat to the Soviets and their puppets. Now they are facing the serious question of what happens to tens of such garrisons in the countryside in the North. What happens if Mujahideen in other areas of Afghanistan adopt the same tactics?
As far as Afghanistan Resistance is concerned it must draw serious lessons from the good developments in the North. Mujahideen should change their tactics , pay attention to training programs and bring some sort of practical cooperation among different groups at least on a regional basis. This should be an answer to the military stalemate and a practical rejection of the Soviet political moneovers.
o f
—■»-- flFGHRH HEUS UOL.III, HO.22, 1S/11/1967,PWC 2 ■ ■ ■
                                  NEWS
                                   FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                               KERAN GARRISON CONQUERED
Eeran garrison, one of puppet regime’s strongholds in the Badakhshan province, was pnquered by the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of North on Oct, 29,1987. ttack on the garrison took place at 5 50 in the morning under the command of Mr.Aryanpoor assisted by Dr. Sayed Husain and Sayed Najmuddin The fighting lasted jpf only one hour and 40 minutes and by 7:30 am the garrison was completely captured.
In the operation against the Keran garrison the following units of the Mujahideen took part:
   1- Three infantry units of the central forces 2- Two heavy weaponry units of the central forces 3- Communication, medical, engineering and anti-aircraft groups of the central forces.
   4- Two units from Panjshir (Kapisa)
   5- Three units from Khost (Baghlan)
   6- One unit from Nahrin (Baghlan)
   7- One unit from Kheelab (Ishkamish. Takhar)
   8- Two units from Ferkhar (Takhar)
   9- Eight units from Badakhshan Enemy forces consisted of the following units:
   1- The Third Battalion of regiment 24 of BRA 2- One company of Sarandoy (police)
RFGHflH HEUS VOL.Ill, HO.22,        15/11/1967,PHGE 3
    3- One company of KHAD (secret police)
    4- A number of defenders of the Revolution" and party members.
During the operation 29 enemy troops were killed and 266 were captured (some of them wounded) The following items were also seized:
1- 76mm howitzer..............................    ......2          pieces 
2- 120mm mortar.............................      ....... 2        pieces 
3- S2mm mortar.............................       ....... 6        pieces 
4- DShK.......................................... ....... 3        pieces 
5- Light weapons................................  ........ 350     pieces 
6- Heavy weapons ammunition.......                .........3000    rounds 
7- Light weapons ammunition.......                ...... 1,000,000 rounds 
    8- Communication equipment five sets (R-104, R-105, Palma and Seeg types)
    9- A large amount of food, clothing and other items
During the fight 14 Mujahideen were martyred and 11 others wounded Conquest of the Keran Garrison on Oct.29 led to further victories
Two days later, on 31 October, Mujahideen under the command of Sayed Najmuddin attacked the 6th Battalion of the enemy troops in Munjan valley about 20 kilometers from Keran Garrison The first and third companies of the mentioned Battalion escaped towards Zaibak which is controlled by the Soviets and the second company with a group of defenders of Revolution’ whose numbers mounted to 300 armed men surrendered to the Mujahideen
It should be added that Keran sub-District is located in Jorm District of Badakhshan province It is located on a major communication route of Mujahideen. It was captured by enemy forces in 1981 Mujahideen attempts to liberate the area had failed in the past.
The Keran garrison is the fourth garrison captured by the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of the North in a period of one year (others were Nahrin Farkhar and Kalafgan)
The report adds that now the whole area upto Toopkhana is in full control of Jamiat Islami Mujahideen
The capture of this stronghold of the enemy is another positive result of the effective and organized work done in the region.
                                              HERAT PROVINCE
22/10/1987 The Russian and puppet forces undertook a joint operation against Mujahideen in the Western part of Herat city after a high-ranking militia commander. Sayed Muhammad was killed by Mujahideen. The fighting continued until October 30 During this time Mujahideen destroyed 5 tanks and APCs and killed 45 Russian and puppet troops, A large number of enemy soldiers and officers were killed Six puppet soldiers and one officer were captured with their weapons Mujahideen casualties
AFGHAN HEUS VOL, II I, HO. 22,     15/11/1967,PAGE 9
included two martyred and seven wounded.
30/10/1987: Mujahideen of Zendajan attacked the puppet and militia forces in Deh Surkh area near Herat-Islamqala highway. Eight persons were killed and 13 militias were captured. Mujahideen also seized some arms and ammunitions
                                              KABUL PROVINCE
 21/10/1987: Mujahideen from Jamiat in Jegdalik.Saroobi District, shot down a Russian jet by a missile when it was bombing the area The jet crushed near Mahipar Dam The pilot ejected himself and was rescued by an enemy helicopter The report does not say anything about the type of the jet
 21/10/1987: In an operation against the enemy. Mujahideen using BM1 and BM-12, destroyed two Russian tanks and killed 12 soldiers.
                                             PERWAN PROVINCE
 6/10/1987 Mujahideen launched-an attack against a DRA post in Bagram District. During the fighting 7 soldiers were captured and an officer was killed. From Mujahideen, one person was martyred in the attack.
 On the same day' H enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded and a DRA officer was taken prisoner in addition to seizure of 7 AK-47s, one PK Machingun and one R-105 Communication set.
 9/I0/19S7: Mujahideen conducted an attack against three enemy artillery positions close to the Bagram Airbase. Using heavy weapons from a distance of 150m. Mujahideen were able to destroy one artillery unit in addition to the killing or wounding of 20 soldiers
                       UN RESOLUTION, A MAJOR VICTORY FOR OUR CAUSE
 UN General Assembly passed a resolution on November 10, calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops (Soviets) from Afghanistan One hundred and twenty three countries voted for the resolution whilel9 countries, mainly belonging to Soviet block, voted against it and 11 others abstained from voting.
 The two days debate on Afghan issue was more fierce than the previous years because of the Soviet attempts to introduce new items in the resolution to connect the withdrawal with the so-called interference from outside in the affairs of Afghanistan.
Soviets started working towards this end of month before the General Assembly convened. Delegates from the puppet regime under auspices of the Soviets visited a large number of Third World countries India was in the forefront of lobbying for the Soviets among the non-aligned nations
The resolution on the Afghan issue was sponsored by 48 countries The representatives of the puppet regime tried to include the so-called National Reconciliation in the resolution which was rejected . Later the two Islamic (!) and Arabic countries of Syria and South Yemen tried to include a Soviet-sponsored amendment which was opposed by Pakistan and other sponserers
The debate on the issue was lively, The Soviet Union- and its supporters in the General Assembly repeated their stories of helping a friendly nation against foreign intervention. On the other hand speakers from Islamic countries, non-aligned movements and the rest of free world clearly rejected the Soviet arguments and asked
BFGHRH KEUS VOL,III, HO.22,        15/11/1907,PRGE 5
them to withdraw their forces and end a big tragedy. The result of voting tfas a good sign On one hand it was a kind of morale and political support for a nation which is struggling over 7 years for its freedom from foreign occupation, on the other hand, it was a clear message to the Soviets that if they did not take practical steps to end the occupation, just talking about peace will not convince the freedom-loving people of the world
Afghan Resistance consider this as a major victory in the political field and thank all those who voted for the resolution and congratulate them for their taking side with a just cause
                         THE RESULT OF UN VOTE ON AFGHANISTAN
                                            IN FAVOR 123
                              AGAINST 19 '
(Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, Byeloruissia, Cuba. Czechosolvakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Lao People s Democratic Republic, Libya, Madagascer, Mongolia, Poland, Syria, Ukrain, USSR, Vietnam)
                                             ABSTAINING
                                                   11
(Algeria Benin, Burkina Faso. Congo Cyprus. Finland, India, Iraq, Mali, Nicaragua, Yuganda)
                                                                                            ABSENT
                                 5
(Cape Verde Mozembique, Seychelles. Yemen )
                                    FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                              (Part II)                      (  p
                                         FERKHAR - WORSAJ
After a day of rest in Peryan we were told by the commander of the area, Najmuddin, to prepare ourselves for a trip to Worsaj to meet commander Masood there We chose Anjuman route because the other routes which passed through Kotal Zard (yellow pass) was still blocked for the horses. In the morning of July 27th we crossed Anjuman pass. The pass was covered with snow which was still falling On the way to Anjuman village, we passed through Anjuman lake which provided a good scene to photograph Around noon we arrived at Anjuman village which was totally destroyed This village of about 100 houses was razed to the ground in 1984 during the Panjshir 7th offensive The people of the area now live in small houses which they have made beside the big rock. There was a shop in the village
The next day we climbed Wishti pass and entered Worsaj valley All along the route hundreds of donkeys and horses were transporting necessity goods like ghee, sugar.
RFGHRK NEUS VOL,111, HO.22,        15/11/1967,PAGE 6
  rice , lea .clothes etc from the markets in the North to the mountainous part of Badakhshan In the evening we reached the first village in Worsaj
  To meet commander Masood and his men I had to go to the lower part of Worsaj a sub-District of Ferkhar district of Takhar province Worsaj is a beautiful valley with clean water and high mountains Worsaj is famous for its fruit The beauty of Worsaj had attracted the ex-rulers of Afghanistan and they payed visit there to hunt deer These visits did not help the people and they were deprived of the basic needs of life There was no hospital, no electricity and there was a bad dirty road The only people who made a profit of the presence of his Majesty was the local landlords who were controlling all the means of life of the people in the valley
  But all that was now part of the history In a garden prepared for the ex-king the , Mujahideen were roaming around
  The market of Worsaj had most of the necessary1 goods but at very high prices. This market provides the needs of the upper part of Panjshir and some parts of Badakhshan
  It should be mentioned that the enemy has never entered Worsaj so far but it is.getting its share of bombs frequently This valley is now a stronghold of the Mujahideen In Worsaj I came across two howitzers-captured from Naiirin and Ferkhar and an APC (in working condition) captured in Taliqan There are several Mujahideen-run schools in this valley
  A Jamial truck took me to Ferkhar city where I was supposed to meet the commander A short distance of about 30 km took about 4 hours of driving because of poor conditions of the road.
  Terknar, a beautiful valley starts from the lower part of Worsaj The land here is very
  fertile,
  At noon we reached the city. This was the first time I had been there The city was clear and was full of customers and all sorts of goods including soft drinks from Holland and Sweets from W Germany were available,
  Ferkhar was liberated in 1979 In 19$5 an enemy Garrison was established in the lower part of the valley Attacks by the local Mujahideen could> not force the enemy to evacuate When Ferkhar was re-organized in a dramatic attack Mujahideen captured the enemy's Garrison, the first in its type after the Soviet invasion The enemy attempts to re-establish its Garrison failed
  The people of the valley are totally supportive to the Mujahideen
  The commander of Ferkhar is Sayved Yahya a young lieutenant graduated from the Military7 Academy of jarniat with a good reputation of piety, courage and understanding of the war Ferkhar now is organized on new lines and has been turned into a base of the Mujahideen Here 1 met some of my friends among the Mujahideen including Commander Masood As usual I found him friendly I was very happy to see that he is relaxed and found him more mature than io the past He had a long meeting with one of the Hezb commanders and reached an agreement on solving some local issues
  The next day we celebrated Eid We visited the mosque of the town Several speakers talked about Jehad the need for unity 1 witnessed how much the people were enjoying the presence of Masood in the mosque; they tried io shake his hand after prayers
  Mv trip to this part of the country was a unique experience which I enjoyed very much. I wish I were living permanently among the Mujahideen in the liberated areas
  of Afghanistan,
fiFGHRil HEUS UOL.IIi, HO.22,       15/11/196?,PROE ?
                                    FREEDOM SCORED ANOTHER VICTORY
 The UN General Assembly passed a resolution by an absolute majority asking for the withdrawal of Vietnamese forces from Cambodia. The resolution was passed with 117 votes in favor while a small number of countries opposed. This incident once more proved that the majority of the world rejects invasion and supports the exercise of the right for self-determination of Nations. Those countries who voted against the resolution mainly belonged to the Soviet Block acting under direction from the Kremlin
 Vietnam invaded Cambodia in 3979 3nd installed a puppet regime The people of Cambodia have waged an armed struggle since then to liberate their country
 The situation in Cambodia has some similarities with the situation in Afghanistan, but there are other points which make the two cases different
 The similarities are the invasion by powerful neighbors establishing puppet regimes and the continuation of ar. armed struggle; but politically the Cambodian Resistance is in a relatively better position than the Afghan Resistance
 The Cambodian Resistance has a coalition government which is recognized by some countries and has membership of the UN Successive attempts by Soviet block countries to challenge the membership of the Cambodian Resistance in the UN failed
 The Afghan Resistance has lacked such a political facade it is not recognized as a liberation movement nor it is a member of the UN
 Despite popular support of ;he Afghan Resistance and control of a vast part of Afghanistan the Resistance politically is w an awkward situation
 ll is interesting to see that -i hen the Soviets speak about peace (!) in Afghanistan, the Vietnamese aiso propose peace plans of their choice for Cambodia
 Although the two countries have been invaded by two different neighbors there is close military and political cooperation between the two invaders, the Soviet Union and Vietnam
                                             NO SHIFT OF BASE
  The Daily Muslim quoting the Afghan Media Resource Center reported in its October 14th issue that Commander Masood has shifted his base from Pan)shir to Badakhshan This is not true The true situation is that Panjshir, despite the presence of 7 enemy garrisons is stili a strong base for the Mujahideen and fighting has continued there since the invasion..
  What is new is the expansion of the area Commander Masood has organized While Mujahideen continued their fight in Panjshir they have tried to organize areas outside Panjshir Thank God as a result of hard work, a large area has been re organized and several other mountainous valleys turned into strongholds for the Mujahideen
  The creation of new bases is not equal to abandoning the previous base or shifting the previous to a new one This type of interpretation comes from the people who can not differentiate between a conventional fight and the two armies and guerrilla warfare In the later type of warfare the chief comin&ndei does not stay in one area, because of security reasons It is true that Masood has spent most of the last two years in the North doing political and military work but he has not chosen a fixed base to stay in If he had done that ft would have been the end of his activities.
                       PFUHflrt HEUS VOL.Ill,     HC.22,   15/11/1967.PAGE 3
                   COMPETITION IN POSITIVE WORK
One of the positive aspects of a multi-party system is the provision of opportunity for different parties to compete with each other in good work Those who do a good job vi.il he supported by the people and get stronger and those with a poor record will become weaken
Diversity of Afghan society has caused different parties to develop a different mode of operation, military as well as political There is a lot to learn from each other
Sometimes it has been witnessed that some of the parties compete with other parties in wrong ways One form of such a competition is claiming the credit for a job done by others Here are some example:
Explosion in the Kabul Airport 4 years ago was the work of one party while another * party took the credit for it In the case of the Qargha explosion at least three parties' claimed that they had done tnat spectacular job The most recent example is the fall of Koran Garrison in tfedakhshan province which was the job of Jamiat. but two other parties claimed they had done it
As a Muslim, we must he honest and say what is true Those political officers of the parties who indulge in these types of immoral acts should know that they are harming the Resistance by false claims and make the outside world to suspect the true reports of the victories of the Mujahideen
                                              OCTOBER REVOLUTION
Seventy years ago the people of Russia ended the kingdom there and founded a relative democratic regime in which Communists were the majority. After a few weeks.the Communist Party under the leadership of Lenin took power through a coup and abolished ali the democratic institutions which were too young to resist After Lenin. Stalin came to power He suppressed all the opposition forces with an iron fist and created the present day Soviet Union
The October Revolution introduced a new system of government to the Soviet society: the main factors of which are open combat with the idea of having religion, elimination of all sorts of freedoms and creation of Labor Camps
Thus Revolution industrialized the countrv but its primary objective was to build a strong army rather than to meet the primary needs of its people
In foreign policy the Soviets have been busy expanding their sphere of influence outside their territory by differed means After World %ar 11 they established the regime of their choice in the countries of Eastern Europe and annexed some of them
In Central Asia they ended the independent states of Bukhara and Khiwa. abrogating a treaty signed with Afghans about those states
For some time the Soviets enjoyed a prestigious position of taking side with the liberation movements iu the Third World in thr;ir struggle against colonial powers but all those efforts were not to liberate tho;* countries hut gel them out of the sphere of influence of H astern Oo Rural Powers and bring them to their own side
After 70 years, r Me Soviets an engaged in a blatant invasion against a small neighboring country. Afghanistan are supoorting Vietnam in their invasion of Cambodia, and help a io, of other oppressive regimes who are fighting against their own people
Internally the major achievement of the October Revolution is the creation of a strong central government which controls ail aspects of life of the people and deals with the opponents ruthlessly Externally, the October Revolution gave birth to a military might with a hypocritical face but intensive desire to expand,