Vol 5, No 9                                                   May 1,1989
Soviet Embassy attacked
                  Soviet Union threatens Mujahideen of retaliatory attacks
                         Ismail Khan target of USSR disinformation
     The Jami'at leader has rejected press reports about a deal between Commander Ismail Khan of Herat and the puppet regime in Kabul.
     Prof. Rabbam told Afghanews that the reports were baseless and fabricated by the Soviets to defame a famous commander of the Mujahideen.
     Prof. Rabbam said that those rumors had been spread for some rime and their source was Moscow.
     He said that the Kabul regime has approached almost all the commanders belonging to different parties in the resistance for negotiations but have been rejected by the Mujahideen.
     Prof. Rabbani said that the communist regime is weak. How could a famous Mujahideen commander such as Ismail Khan be ready to deal with a weak enemy?
     The Far Eastern Economic Review, published in Hongkong, had written that Ismail Khan had agreed to join the regime and the Kabul regime would appoint him the Governor of Herat
     Ismail Khan is one of the famous commanders of the Mujahideen who have fought the Soviets and the local communists since 1$79.
     Soviets spread similar rumors about Ismail Khan before they withdrew their troops from Afghanistan, which proved to be wrong.
     Rumors nbout important commanders like Ismail Khan and Masood are spread to create doubts about them in the minds of Afghans. The aim of such propaganda is to divide Afghans.
     Division among the resistance is the last hope of the Soviets and their friends in Afghanistan.
     Ismail Khan has been described as classic hero of the Afghan war by a foreign journalist
     A ground-to-ground rocket hit the Soviet Embassy in Kabul on April 20 but caused no casualties.
     A spokesman of the Soviet foreign ministry warned the Mujahideen of retaliation.
     One of the Soviet Officials in the embassy said to the reporters that the rocket was fired from the hill where some days before fighting took place between the regime forces and fighters belonging to Ahmad Shah Masood.
     Two hundred and fifty Soviets live in the Soviet Embassy in Kabul
     A Soviet official in the Soviet Embassy in Kabul has told a New York Times reporter that the Soviet Union has decided to give more sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime to defend itself against the Mujahideen.
     The Soviet Union gave Mig-27 jets, BM-27 rocket launchers and Scud missiles to the regime just before com-
                    Regime admits heavy losses
     More than 36,000 members of the Afghan ruling party have been killed fighting the Mujahideen guerrillas seeking the overthrow of the Kabul government, the party newspaper said on Ihesday.
     The daily Payam (message) organ of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan, said die deaths had all occurred since a communist coup established a marxist government in Afghanistan in 1978.
 plerion of their troop withdrawal.
     Weapons to the regime are mainly airlifted because the Salang highway which connects the Soviet border to Kabul is risky.
     Some Mujahideen sources have shown concern about die possible introduction of chemical weapons by the communist regime. The regime possesses chemical weapons and tge Soviets will give them if they feel die need for their use.
     The only preventive factor in employing chemical weapons is the international reaction against its use. But a desperate regime may find world reaction less important than its immediate concern for survival
     Soviet and regime medias accuse the Western countries of giving chemical weapons to the Mujahideen. This could be an attempt to pave the ground for its use against the Mujahideen.
     Soviet officials warning to the Mujahideen must be taken seriously. In the past they have made use of small incidents to launch major attacks against the innocent people. The Salang massacre in January is an example.
     Another danger must not be underestimated. That is the cunning nature of the puppet regime in inciting the Soviets to launch retaliatory attacks against the Mujahideen. Regime agents can fire a few rockets on the Soviet embassy in Kabul or into the Soviet territory and blame the Mujahideen for it This way they could involve die Soviets in direct fighting against the Mujahideen.
     In 1987 a few rockets fired by KHAD agents into the Soviet Union provoked a big offensive in which hundreds of innocent people in Kunduz were killed. If there are a retaliatory attacks against the Mujahideen, it will be in the form of carpet-bombing of the villages and towns causing a lot of casualties among the civilians.
AFGHANews Vol5, No 9, May 1,1989, page @
                                    Salang
     The enemy attacked the Mujahideen positions in Haijan, south of Salang tunnel on April 7.
     Twenty five enemy soldiers were killed and two tanks were set on fire. The Mujahideen seized two rocket launchers, three Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machine gun. Two enemy soldiers were captured.
                                                      Kabul province
     The Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Anwar Khan brought a section of the Kabul-Jalalabad road under their control on April 18.
     On April 22, the enemy posts on Abrishomi mountain, overlooking the road and Sorobi district, were captured by the Mujahideen.
     On April 23 and 24 two enemy attacks to open the road were foiled by the Mujahideen.
     The enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions heavily.
     On April 24 the two enemy posts of Toot and Laki in Tangi Abrishomi were captured by the Mujahideen.
     Cutting the Kabul-Jalalabad road will increase pressure on the besieged city of Jalalabad . This is the only road which can be used by the regime for transporting supplies to Jalalabad.
      The enemy casualties in the Sorobi fighting are heavy. So far, 100 enemy soldiers have been killed or wounded and six enemy tanks, two armored cars, seven trucks and one bulldozer were destroyed. Forty enemy soldiers and 4 officers were captured by the Mujahideen.
      The Mujahideen have captured the following equipment from the enemy:
      1- Kalashnikov rifles 45
      2- Light rocket launchers 21
      3- PK machine guns        2
    4-  Mortar (82mm)    1
    5-  R-102 radio sets 4
    6-  T.T pistols      4
    7-  Telephone        3
    The Mujahideen lost five men and 12 Mujahideen were injured. One BM-12 rocket launcher of the Mujahideen was also destroyed by the enemy. Commander Anwar has described the morale of his Mujahideen as high.
    Eight soldiers were killed and five captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post on Khair Khana pass in the northern outskirt of the city of Kabul on April 7.
    Twelve enemy soldiers and officers defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Shaker Dara district, north of the city of Kabul on April 7.
    They brought with them nine Kalashnikov rifles, one rocket launcher and one recoilless rifle.
    Fourteen oil-tankers caught fire when a time-bomb planted by the Mujahideen from Jami'at exploded in Badam Bagh fuel dump on April 6. The tankers burned for several hours.
                                                    Logar province
     Kabul regime jets bombarded Logar province killing 26 and wounded 17 on April 7, AMRC reported.
     Feda Mohammad, who arrived recently in Peshawar, said that four Kabul regime jets bombed the area of the Deh Now Bazaar in Logar province, killing 26 including 13 women, seven children and six old men.
     Feda Mohammad, who also sustained injuries during the bombardment added that some woundeds were brought to Peshawar and some others were under treatment in the Mujahideen's clinic in the area.
     Deh Now Bazaar is the place from
 where the refugees take Pakistan-bound pick-up cars.
                                                    Herat province
    An enemy battalion stationed in Ghoryan district defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at on April 6.
    The 300 militiamen headed by Abdullah Jan brought with them 300 light weapons, 40 heavy weapons and 18 trucks and motorcycles.
    Ghoryan district is command by Khawja Zabiullah.
                                                   Faryab province
    About two hundred militiamen have joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at around Maimana, the provincial capital, in the past one month.
    They have brought with them large quantities of arms and ammunition. Fighting against the communist posts around Maimana and Qaisar continues.
    Sixteen militiamen were killed, 14 wounded and 20 captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their posts near Maimana, the provincial capital on April 7.
    The Mujahideen seized 30 guns and some ammunition. One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
    The Mujahideen also fired several rockets into Maimana airport which killed or wounded an unknown number of enemy soldiers and destroyed some buildings.
    Both attacks were launched under the command of Maulawi Sayyed Yousuf, the provincial chief of Jami'at Islami in Faryab.
                                         Soviets delay peace
    Pakistan has accused the Soviet Union of breaching the Geneva agreement and has demanded that UN posts be established to monitor Moscow’s compliance with the Accords.
    Pakistan's envoy, Mr. Shah Nawaz, told the security council meeting that Moscow was creating problems for the peaceful transfer of power to a broad-based government by sending highly sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime.
     Mr. Shah Nawaz asked the UN to establish monitoring posts' along the Soviet border and the major airports in Afghanistan.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page ©
Increasing crime rate within Soviet Union
     An aid-worker has con-irmed the Mujahideen's reports that the Salang highway has been blocked for enemy military convoys but that food is allowed to reach the population in Kabul.
     Abdullah, who accompanied a team which distributed aid among the victims of the Salang atrocity, returned to Peshawar after several weeks in the Salangand Panjshir valleys.
     He said the 8 kilometer section of road between Qalatak and Olang (in South Salang) was in control of the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen had set up check posts and were searching buses and trucks carrying passengers and food to the south.
     Abdullah told Afghanews that when he was in Salang the communist >ombarded the valley day and night from air and with artillery and rockets.
     He said that the Mujahideen in Salang who are assisted by a small group of the Mujahideen from Panjshir had scored many victories. They had captured large quantities of arms and ammunition, he added.
     Abdullah and his team distributed relief goods among the Salangi families who left their villages after the Soviets destroyed their houses and killed about 800 civilians on January 23.
     The villages on the two sides of the road from Tajikan to Olang were totally destroyed and some of the victims of the atrocity were still buried in the rubble of their houses, he said.
     The team distributed aid among 1700 families who live in Jabul Seraj as refugees.'
     Abdullah said that the price of food commodities in Shemali and Panjshir changed due to the road situation. If the Salang road was open the prices were relatively low and in the case of its closure the prices went up.
     He gave the following figures for the prices of essential commodities in Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of the Panjshir valley:
     Wheat 650 Afs/7 kilograms, rice 1400 Afs/7 kilograms, sugar 1000 Afs/ 7 kilograms, table salt 500
                                                                                                                Turn to page (4 )
     Figures released at a press-conference for Soviet journalists by the Ministry of Internal Affairs show a rapidly increasing crime rate within the Soviet Union.
     Since these are first official figures to be issued since 1933, when they were banned by Stalin, it is impossible to say how the increase compares with previous years, but over the past year alone the increases in violent crime are alarming enough, and certainly give the lie to the generally held view of the Soviet Union as a peaceful and well-ordered society. Izvestiya (14 February, evening edition) published a table of the figures.
 ment seems a bright spot. But Izvestiya (8 February, evening edition) ascribed the drop more to the passivity of law enforcement officials than to an actual decrease in the numbers of such crimes. Specialists considered that only two percent of the cases of bribe-taking ever came to light
     One aspect of the rise in crime discussed at the meeting which worried Izvestiya was that 11 per cent of all crimes had been committed by juveniles. An even more disturbing figure was that 88,000 crimes were committed by juveniles in groups, a quarter of them under the influence of alcohol.
     crime
     Murder Violent assault Rape Robbery
     Pilfering (state property) Burglary (private property) Fraud
     Embezzlement
     Speculation
                                                                                                                         Traffic offences with fatal consequences
1987     1988   Percent 
14,651  16,710  + 14.1  
28,250  37,191  + 31.6  
16,765  17,658  + 5.3   
9,047   12,916  + 42.8  
132.377 165383  + 24.9  
401,599 548,524 + 36.6  
23,897  21,543  -9.8    
96,986   87350  -9.8    
43372   . 45235 + 4.3   
18,469  22,492  + 21.8  
     By way of comparison, the figure for murder, though some way short of the comparable US figure, is far higher per head of the population than in most European countries.
     The drop in fraud and embezzle-
     Other figures given in the Izvestiya article testify to considerable unrest in corrective labour camps and alcohol correction centres.
     Soviet analyst, 8 March 1989
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1, 1989, page 0
      April coup of 1978
    The April communist coup of 1978 caught the people of Afghanistan by surprise. In 1973 Daud had also made coup but that was considered an internal power-struggle within the royal family. But the coup of 1973 proved to be the first step towards communist rule in Afghanistan.
    The communist coup of April 27, 1978, was carried out by the army officers who had seen training in the Soviet Union and were members of the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
    The Soviets were relieved to see that Daud, who wanted to decrease dependence on the Soviets by establishing good relations with other countries, was eliminated in a bloody coup.
    Both the coups of 1973 and 78 were left-oriented and anti-religious, but the later one was highly radical in its opposition to religion and the traditions of Afghan society.
    The Communists could see no danger from any quarters against their provocative measures. They had brought Daud's army under their control and were confident of military, political and economic support from the Soviet Union, a neighboring super power.
    The victory of the communists over the army units loyal to Daud had made them very bold and less careful.
    The Communists did not see a major social, religious and political organization to mobilize people against them.
    Religious institutions and personalities who could play a key role in such circumstances were not organized. King Zahir and President Daud who saw the power of religious leaders as a potential threat to themselves did everything to weaken it.
    Allowing communists to attack religion and make a mockery of religious figures was part of this campaign. This type of attitude towards Islam and Ulama was common among their elite class in the government, but the communists were well organized.
    The oppressive rule of the communists in the first few months made the peaceful people of the country realize: that they did not have any choice except to defend themselves against the onslaught of the left dictatorship. Religion provided the people with inspiration to resist and religious figures came to their help to give a direction to their resistance.
    There was a new element in this struggle and that was the presence of a group of highly motivated Islamists who triggered the national uprising explosion against the communists.
    There is a misconception about the reasons of the uprising against the communists which needs correction. The opposition to the communists is generally attributed to the introduction of social, educational and economic reforms by the communists.
    The people did not rise against the communist because they opened new schools, hospital and factories and built fridges and roads.
    They had not done any of the above tilings. What made the people angry was the killing of the innocent people, attacks on religious values and interference in private life of the people.
    The people had realized that if they did not move they would find themselves slaves of the regime: They had heard about the atrocities of communists in Central Asia.
    In a short period of time insurgence broke out in different parts of the coun-
                                               Tum to page ( 7 )
  BBC helps Afghans to clear mines
    The BBC Pushtoo program has launched a mine-awareness program for Afghans in collaboration with the United Nations.
    The program will be broadcasted for six months to increase Afghans' knowledge about the danger of mines.
    The Soviet Union has planted millions of landmines in Afghanistan which pose a serious threat to the people and animals.
    It is not clear why the program is broadcasted in only one of the two major languages in Afghanistan.
    All Afghans do not understand Pushtoo and they must be informed in their own languages.
    The mine-awareness program being a humanitarian project must benefit all, not just a section of the Afghan society.
    Such a program should not be limited to the refugees in Pakistan. The people inside Afghanistan and the refugees in Iran are entitled to benefit from the program.
  Food not arms
                                                      From page (3)
Afs/7 kilograms, diesel oil 800 Afs/ per gallon.
    Abdullah said that the Panjshir was bombed day and night, but bombing was sporadic and indiscriminate.
    Despite bombing, the people in Panjshir had cultivated the land. The only exceptions were Rukha and Bazarak. In these two towns, due to the destruction of the irrigation channels only part of the farmlands were cultivated.
    Abdullah described the weather in Salang as being very cold with two meters deep snow on passes. This was the reason the Mujahideen could not carry away the ammunition they had captured from the enemy.
    The aid to the victims of Salang was sent by a number of relief organizations based in Peshawar who have been involved in helping war affected Afghans inside the country.
    Abdullah described the morale of the Mujahideen in Salang as "very high". He predicted a major military encounter between the Mujahideen and the communist forces in and around Salang in the near future.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page @
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Comr. Mullah Shams
    Shamsuddin, known as Mullah Shams was bom 35 years ago in the provincial capital of Baghlan province. His father, Mustafa Qul, escaped to Afghanistan as a small boy from Bukhara in Central Asia along with his family. "1 belong to a family which has felt the atrocities of the Russians in Bukhara. 1 still remember die horrible stories my grandfather told me regarding the crimes committed by the Red army when Bukhara was invaded many years ago," said Commander Mullah Shams, who came to Peshawar recently for treatment of his wounds.
     Mullah Shams, an Uzbak by origin, studied the basics of Islam and Holy Quran for four years in a private madrasa (religious school) and then due to his family's economic problems started to help his father and brothers in a 12 Jerib ( approx 6 acres) piece of land they possessed.
    "Life was difficult at the beginning, but we all worked very hard, and opened a small shop which in the latter stages became a small productive business," Mullah Shams said. "Our economic condition improved. I started again to go to the neatest mosque and learn the basics of my religion".
    When communists took power in Afghanistan, Mullah Shams was 23 years old, a young businessman possessing about 60 cows, providing milk to the sugar factory in Baghlan city." I knew thatTaraki was a communist and I was totally against comr munism. 11 told my brother Abdul Rahman that I should join those who ate against the communist regime."
 Mullah Shams joined the Hezb -Islami group in the area. He stayed for some time with Hezb-Islami group and then came to Peshawar.
     nl Joined Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and went to establish my own base in the city of Baghlan. We were about 25 people when I established my first base in the city. By that time the regime
had confiscated all my property and imprisoned my brother and some other relatives," recalled Mullah Shams.
    Mullah Shams became very famous in the city of Baghlan. He was living in the liberated part of the city. "Our tactic was to attack the security posts of the government at night That was die source of our weapons too. We ambushed the convoys of the regime passing the area. We also contacted government forces to persuade them to defect Whenever there was any pressure from the regime we used to retreat to the suburbs," said Mullah Shams.
    Of his operations he mentioned three operations in 1983, 84 and 86 as being the most successful ones.
    "In 1983 we ambushed a convoy of die Russians on the main road in which 68 tanks and armored cars were destroyed and at least 400 Russian and DRA soldiers were killed. In the summer of 1986 when the Soviets launched a big offensive to destroy the bases of Mujahideen in and around the city of Baghlan, we fought for two days. 47 tanks and armored cars of the enemy were destroyed and about 350 Russians were wounded or killed.
     "We lost about 100 Mujahideen and 150 civilians in the battle,” said Mullah Shams.
     Mullah Shams played an important role in capturing Nahrin garrison in 1986. He has been a member of the Supervisory Council of North right from the beginning. Commander Masood is one of his admirers. Once commando' Masood said: "The capture of Nahrin garrison, without Mullah Shams would have been difficult." Mullah Shams keeps good relations with some commanders of Hezb-Islami such as commander Ghayoor and Mamoor Bashir. '
     He also enjoys good relations with commanders of Nasser group of Shia sect. He believes that the Supervisory Council of the North is capable of capturing the main cities in die North and has also the mechanism to run a good administration in those cities.
      He believes that some political understanding between different parties as well as coordinated military action would guarantee the fall of the provincial capitals. He said that lack of ammunition and effective weapons would delay the fall of die main cities.
     He is a brave and frank commander. He says what he thinks without considering its political repercussions. He is a good Buzkashi player and is the father of six children.
 They have no home to celebrate 'Eid'
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page ©
 Glimpses into the historical background of Part (3)
 The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
    Situation in Afghanistan during my absence:
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan originated from the Faculty of Shariat, Kabul University, but was welcomed and promoted by many students from other faculties, such as Engineering, Medicine, and Science. That happened after 1964 when the nucleus of the Movement had already been formed. What made the students realize the danger of communism was the communists' conspicuous anti Islamic actions such as eating during the month of Ramazan, inviting people to communism and holding public rallies in defense of communism.
    Once the Muslim students realized the danger, everyone tried to Find a companion in order to defend the Religion of God and to do Jehad in the Way of God. That led to the appearance of two phenomena:
    1. Emergence of prominent personalities among the students and gathering of others around them. We can name some of those personalities: Eng. Habibur Rahman from Faculty of Polytechnic; dear brother Abdur Rahim Niazi, Martyred Habibur Rahman, Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf, Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai, Abdul Bari, Martyred Abdul Qader, Martyred Sayyed Abdur Rahman and Enayatullah Shadab from the Faculty of Shariat; Sayyed Noorullah Em ad from Faculty of Sciences; Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and Saifuddin Nasratyar from Faculty of Engineering.
Brother Abdur Rahim Niazi, who was one of the most prominent personalities, passed away before the Movement had taken an organizational format
    2. Invitation and induction of new students to the Islamic Movement became easier. The prominent personalities among the students became appropriate means for expanding the range of the Movement They served as a link between university students and professors of the Faculty of Shariat such as Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani and myself after my return. The professors, on the other hand, were links between the student members of the Movement and those members outside the University.
 Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
      The scholarly atmosphere for the members of the Movement improved enormously during the 1960s compared to the decade before it. Import of books from abroad became popular. Improvement in the economic situation made it easier to purchase them. Everyone could find something that suited his ideas and ideals.
  Everyone’s knowledge about his ideology and school of thought increased. Each side strengthened its arguments in support of its position. Discussions and arguments between the two sides extended from the classroom to public meetings and even to private houses.
      The Muslim activists had the upper hand in the arguments against communism. Their reasoning was clear and iheir evidence was strong. Thus, their number increased day by day. That brought a change in communist strategy. Earlier they used to promote free mingling of people with different ideologies hoping that their followers could corrupt the Muslims. Soon they realized the situation was the reverse. It was the misguided communists who would see the light of truth through their association with the Muslims. Therefore, the communists started discouraging and even banning their members from mingling with Muslim activists.
      During this period (1964-71) some events took place which had historical significance for the Movement
      (1) Showing of a film about evolution in Polytechnic Institute. The Institute was built by the Russians and the film was screened by the Russian instructors. The theme of the film was about creation without Creator. The members of the Islamic Movement reacted very strongly to that sacrilegious act, and their opposition shocked the University authorities. Martyred Eng. Habibur Rahman placed a leading role in that incident.
      (2) Tearing apart a copy of the Holy Quran by the communists in the University dormitory in 1971. That incident excited the Muslim activists and exposed the true face of the communists to the general public.
      (3) The use of the slogan "Dorood to Lenin" by the Parcham periodical in 1971. "Dorood" is a word of praise reserved for the Holy Prophet and other religious personalities among the

fgtsl|a |ie|p||r |knd in the arguments agaisnt epmipjmists. Therefore,
dfeco||agihg and even banning their members
Muslims. Its use for Lenin by the pro-Moscow paper brought about an uproar among Muslims in Kabul University and outside it. Huge demonstrations began in Kabul city. They lasted for 43 consecutive days, and were spearheaded by religious scholars and spiritual leaders. A number of people started a sit-in demonstration in Pul-e-Khishti mosque and raised anti Zahir Shah slogans for his indifferent attitude and failure to defend religious sanctity. The demonstration was broken up by the King's armed forces.
The above incidents inflamed hatred towards communism in the hearts of the Muslims more then before. They also led to the return of some beguiled Muslims from the rank of communists- Moreover, they strengthened mutual relationship among the members of the Movement and led into comprehensive cooperation between University students and students of religious schools and private madrasas. Muslim gatherings and public meetings increased; and sometimes they ended up in clashes with the communists.
    The positive and negative consequences of the incidents propted the leaders of the Movement to start planning for its future activities and for improving its organizational framework. So far the Movement had been headed by a few professors of the Faculty of Shariat under the leadership of Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi without any formal structure. The activities had been focused on countering communism in a scholarly manner.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 9, May 1,1989, page Q
          Communists close Engineering Faculy of Kabul University
    The Soviets closed the Faculty of Engineering at Kabul University as part of their campaign to Sovietize Afghan educational institutions.
    This was stated by Dr. Ghulam Ahmad Nasir, the ex-professor of the Faculty of Engineering who now lives as a refugee in Peshawar.
    The Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University was distinguished by high academic standards and anti-communist students.
    The Faculty started with 200 student and 14 academic staff, eight American and six Afghan, in 1962.
    In 1964 it moved to its new building which was provided with well-equipped laboratories. At the beginning, the faculty was training students in general engineering but later it was divided into electrical engineering. Mechanical engineering, civil engineering, agricultural engineering and architecture departments.
    It was an English medium school which used American books supplemented with notes provided by the staff.
    At the beginning most of the engineering students came from the Afghan Institute of Technology but later students from other high schools also enrolled in the Faculty.
    The Faculty of Engineering also accepted students from India, Iran and Middle East countries.
    When Kabul University was politicized the Faculty of Engineering was not an exception. The majority of the students of die faculty were in favor of the Islamic movement This was one of the reasons which made communists very angry and wanted to get rid of it
    The Soviets resented the academic relations between Kabul University and Western educational institutions, especially with those in the United States.
    The Soviet Union offered assistance for the establishment of several Technical Schools in Afghanistan. The foundation stone of Kabul Polytechnic Institute was laid by Breznev in 1958. In 1964 the institute started to
 function.
     The pro-Soviet elements in the Ministry of Education started to push the idea of the merger of the Polytechnic and the faculty of Engineering. But a study by the experts showed that the two institutions had different purposes and no duplication was taking place.
     When Daud came to power with the help of communist elements in 1973 the idea of the merger was raised again. The Faculty staff tried hard to convince Daud not to endorse the idea of the merger. Finally Daud decided to leave the two to function separately. But Daud asked the Faculty staff to increase the number of students from 400 to 2000 without increasing the number of staff and accommodation. It was an indirect way of subverting the faculty.
     After the Soviet invasion the communists were in full control. They announced the merger of the Faculty of Engineering into the Polytechnic in 1982. Fresh students were accepted and in 1986 the Faculty was closed. ,
     According to Dr-Nasir the building of the faculty was given to the military and its valuable facilities were taken away, probably to the Soviet Union.
     A prestigious faculty which was serving the country by training young engineers was martyred by the. Soviet invaders.
     In reply to a question about reviving the faculty after liberation of the country from the communists' rule. Dr. Nasir said that with the help of International Rescue Committee a faculty of Engineering based on the same lines as the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University has been set up in Peshawar which has 40 students in two classes. Once the country is liberated these students will shift to the faculty.
     He believed all the staff of the faculty who have escaped die persecution of the communists, will return and help the revival of the faculty.
     Dr. Nasir, 47, a native of Ghazni province is working as the technical consultant of the Danish Committee, a relief organization helping war affected Afghans.
4*4*4*
                                                         Editorial
                                                           From page (4)
 try. The news of uprising in one area inspire^ the people in other areas and the process took the form of a chain-
 reaction.
    Despite the Mujahideen being ill-armed and not organized, the regime was defeated in many fronts and its army units deserted.
    The Soviet leaders, underestimating the danger, invaded Afghanistan to rescue their friends and save their influence. For more than nine years the war against the invaders continued.
    Afghans paid a high price for their freedom which can serve as a good example for the rest of the world.
    During the ten years of war the communist regime played the role of a collaborator to the invading forces. Its leadership changed with orders from Moscow but the party role remained the same.
    Soviet Union's attempt to impose the regime on the people of Afghanistan utterly failed. With the withdrawal of troops their interference in Afghanistan did not come to an end, nor did their desire to control this country through a puppet regime.
    The regime has changed its propaganda tone. It shows that it wants to live in peace with its opponents and share power with them. It poses as a national party which believes in relig ion. It also tries to show that it has learned from its mistakes and is ready to correct them.
    A close look at the nature of the regime and the coded language it uses shows that it has not changed.
    Afghans say: "It is wrong; to test someone who has been tested". Ten years of war, the invasion of Afghanistan, destruction of 75% towns and villages and loss of a million lives are clear tests of their criminal attitude towards people and of their loyalty to the Soviets.
    The Regime celebrated the 11th anniversary of the April r;oup Delegations of pro-Soviet parties from outside Afghanistan were invited. Afghans hope that this will be the last show of this tragic drama in Afghanistan.
    The circle around the regime is tighthening gradually. The final attack against it will start in the near future. While the resistance is ready to forgive individuals within the regime if they repent their past, it is not ready to tolerate the survival of the PDPA as a political organization in Afghanistan. The party of traitors has no place in a free and Islamic Afghanistan.'
AFGHANews Vol5, No 9, May 1,1989, page ©
     Pakistan has agreed to allow three observation post for the UN monitoring team to be established along the borders with Afghanistan.
     The announcement was made daring the first meeting of the Security Council by Pakistan's representative, Iqbal Akhund.
     The three new posts are in addition to two sub-offices in Peshawar and Quetta.
     The new posts axe established in Parachinar, Torkham and Chaman, the three Pakistani towns along the border
with Afghanistan
     The two sub-offices and force posts were not envisaged by the Geneva accords signed on April 14,1988.
     The United Nations has a 50 member observation team based in Islamabad and Kabul to monitor the implementation of the Geneva accords.
     The demand for establishing new posts was made by the Kabul regime.
     UN Secretary General welcomed the Pakistan decision of allowing UN observers to establish three posts. The regime, which had asked for establishment of eight posts was not satisfied with three.
     The Mujahideen leaders have shown their displeasure ova: the new posts because the Afghan side of the border of the location of the three new posts is controlled by the Mujahideen. They also argue that while Soviets continue to send great quantities of arms and ammunition to the illegal regime of Najibullah, establishment of new posts along the border could not be justified.
     If Pakistan had asked for establishing similar post inside Afghanistan to stop firing Send missiles and flow of arms and money to the terrorists inside Pakistan, the regime could not have done it because the regime control no territory along the border with Pakistan.
     Mr. Shah Nawaz asked the UN to establish monitoring posts along the Soviet border and the major airports in Afghanistan.
     The Security Council meeting, which began on April 11 ended without reaching any decision. The meeting was asked for by the Kabul regime to discuss what they called' Pakistan interference in the affairs of Afghanistan'.
     Most of the members of the Council did not agree with a greater tide for die UN in Afghanistan.
         Masood allows food to reach cities
    Ahmad Shah Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council of the North, has said that his men had blocked Salang road for the enemy military convoys for more than two months but let food supply to pass.
    When an enemy garrison was captured in Haijan of Salang on February 12, the enemy military convoys could not pass through.
    The Mujahideen let the fuel and food supplies pass, after checking the trucks, to allow the people of the cities, especially the people in Kabul, to have essential commodities.
    Several attempts by the regime to open the road failed. Hundreds of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and hundreds either defected or were captured.
    During these two months heavy fighting continued between the regime forces and the Mujahideen from Jami'aL
Ten kilometers of the road inside the Salang valley was controlled by the Mujahideen where they were checking the convoys in order to make sure they were not carrying weapons and ammunition. The Regime tried to smuggle ammunition in civilian trucks but the attempts were foiled.
    Masood said that the enemy opened the road on April 14 after heavy fighting.
    Closure of the Salang highway is an easy job for the Supervisory Council of the North, said Masood. It will be done whenever die Mujahideen feel the need for it Well-being of the civilian population is always a prime concern in any operation of this nature.
    During the fighting in Jalalabad the enemy has not been able to bring any ammunition or weapon by the road from the Soviet Union. Road block in Salang is done by the local Jami'at Mujahideen from die Salang valley.
            New effort to broaden interim government’s base
     The Jami'at leader has gone to Teheran to persuade Iran-based Mujahideen parties to take part in the interim government
     The interim government cabinet appointed a 4-member delegation headed by Prof. Rabbani to negotiate an agreement with Iran-based Mujahideen parties to facilitate their participation in die government
     The eight-party coalition refused to take part in the interim government when the two sides could not agree about die number of seats for the Iran-based parties in the consultative council which elected die present government The interim government has proposed five ministerial posts for the Iran-based parties in the cabinet of the interim government which will have 28 ministers.
     One of the Mujahideen command-ears, Abdul Haq, has accused Iran-based parties of negotiating a deal with the puppet regime in Kabul. This allegation was strongly rejected by the spokesman of die Iran-based parties.
     If Prof. Rabbani is successful in persuading the Iran-based parties to accept the offer it will be a great Victory far the interim government
     While the majority of the Peshawar-based parties are in favor of a
 compromise with the ban-based parties for the sake of die greater interest of the country, a few parties show reservations.
     While in Iran, Prof. Rabbani met with Iran president and officials of the ministry of foreign affairs.
     The Soviet Union and Kabul regime try hard to prevent a deal between die two sides. The Soviet Union offered autonomy for Hazarajat region when Vorontsov visited Iran last November and the offer was turned down by the ban-based parties.
     ban-based parties have control over Hazarajat area and have a presence around Kabul and some other cities.
                                                                                  Fresh refugees enter Pakistan
   More than 60,000 new refugees have reached Pakistan since November 1988.
   Pakistan Federal Minister for Frontier Regions giving the figure said that the new refugees have been accommodated in three new refugee camps.
   Most of the refugees have fled from the Jalalabad area but refugees from other parts of Afghanistan including Kabul are also coming to Pakistan.
Vol 5, No 10                                                May 15,1989
       Tehran talks not final
                     Celebrations in Shadow of war
     The Regime celebrated the 11th anniversary of the communist coup amid fear of Mujahideen attacks.
     The military parade which was planned for the occasion was held one day earlier than scheduled. The guests, mainly from East European countries were awakened before dawn to watch the parade. About 1000 people had gathered to see the parade.
     The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, Yuri Vorontsov, arrived when the ceremony was halfway through. A regime official said that the change of schedule was due to security considerations.
     The parade took 40 minutes and the streets were deserted. The Regime had blocked the roads leading to the area where the parade was held.
     At least 65 rockets poured into Kabul killing 27 and injuring 60. One of the rocket hit the security perimeter of the presidential palace.
     Negotiations between the Peshawar-based alliance and the Iran-based coalition ended with understanding that the talks will continue in Pakistan.
     Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, led a four-member delegation of the Alliance to Teheran to persuade Iran-based parties to participate in the interim government. Four rounds of talks were held during which the problem was discussed.
     A four-point memorandum was signed by the two sides asking for unity among the resistance forces, the continuation of armed struggle against the communist regime, need to form a permanent government based on elections and continuation of a dialogue between the two sides.
     A delegation of Iran-based parties will come to Pakistan to continue the dialogue.
     The two sides also rejected the ru-
 mors accusing Iran-based parties of holding talks with the communist regime in Kabul.
     The Mujahideen delegation also met with Iranian president and foreign minister to discuss the situation with them.
     Prof. Rabbani also spent much time meeting with Afghan refugees and representatives of Mujahideen.
     Prof. Rabbani said on his return from Iran that discussion with Iran-based parties took place in a cordial atmosphere.
     Other members of the delegation were Qazi Najiullah (Hizb Islami Hikmatyar), Mawlawi Fazli (Harakat) and Dr. Zabihullah (Jabha).
     The spokesman of the eight party coalition, Jan Ali zahidi, said in an interview with BBC that the two sides had agreed to coordinate their military activities against the communist regime.
 stand in support of a country which was invaded by the Soviet Union. In addition, he established cordial relations with the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul while the Soviets were still present in Afghanistan.
     The visit by Zimbabwean foreign minister may not be good news for the Mujahideen and it will not help Afghans in their struggle for self-determination.
     The Harare meeting may call for a political solution in which the regime is a party. Such a solution has been re-jected by the Afghan resistance._
                                                  Communist leader killed
     Regime radio reported that the Mujahideen have killed a Central Committee member of the Communist Party.
     He was identified as Khalil Khusro and was buried in Kabul. He was given a posthumous bravery record.
NAM to discuss Afghan situation
    The foreign minister of Zimbabwe, Mr. Nathan Shamnyarira, visited Islamabad, Kabul and Moscow to discuss the situation in Afghanistan.
    He delivered the messages of Robert Mugabe, the current chairman of NAM to the leaders of Pakistan and Soviet Union and the head of the Kabul regime.
    He also held talks with the foreign ministers in these countries and discussed the latest situation of Afghanistan with them.
    He told reporters in Moscow that his country was in favor of a political solution to the Afghan problem. He said that Afghan issue will be discussed in the coming meeting of Coordination Bureau of the non-Aligned Movement in Harare.
     Afghanistan, a member of the non-Aligned Movement, was invaded by the Soviet Union. Successive meetings of the non-Aligned Movement demanded the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan.
     The Movement's role remained limited to passing resolutions, it could not play a key role in support of a non-aligned country invaded by a superpower because the leadership of the Movement during the nine years of occupation were in the hands of Cuba, India and Zimbabwe, all of which have close ties with Moscow.
     When Zimbabwe assumed the position of chairmanship of NAM, Afghans hoped for a better change but it did not happen.
     Robert Mugabe did not take a clear
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page @
                                Kabul Province
     The Kabul-Jalalabad road is still closed and the Mujahideen from Jami'at have frustrated repeated attempts by the enemy to open it.
     The Mujahideen belonging to commander Anwer Khan brought a section of the road in Tangi Abrishumi under their control on April 18.
     The enemy air force, artillery and repeated attacks of ground forces have not been able to push them out of their positions along the road.
     The enemy has lost a large number of tanks and trucks. A considerable number of the enemy soldiers have I been killed, wounded or captured.
     Despite heavy bombing by the air force the causalities of the Mujahideen are very low.
     Bombing takes place day and night and in some cases the enemy planes have bombed the Mujahideen's position 120 times in 24 hours.
     The enemy supply convoys have concentrated in Sorobi town, halfway between Kabul and Jalalabad. This town also has been a target of the Mujahideen attacks.
     Exploiting the favorable terrain, the Mujahideen mine the road, ambush convoys and fire with heavy weapon to i block the road.
      The Mujahideen have made use of TOW wire-guided missiles effectively against enemy armored columns.
      A special point about the war is the introduction of militia units from Herat. So far one hundred of these militiamen have been captured by the Mujahideen. This enemy tactic to use local militiamen in fighting outside their own areas is aimed at creating mistrust between people of different regions. -
      Following are the day to day accounts of fighting along the Kabul-| Jalalabad road from April 26 to May 10:
      On April 26, the enemy's attempt
 to open the road was foiled when the Mujahideen destroyed 15 tanks and two trucks. The Mujahideen captured 25 rifles. The enemy casualties were not known and the Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
     On the same day, a convoy of 20 trucks which was on its way from Jalalabad to Sorobi was ambushed. Eleven trucks were destroyed and the rest managed to retreat to Jalalabad. Six soldiers were captured and an unknown number of soldiers were either killed or wounded.
     On April 29, the enemy carried out 20 air raids in 24 hours. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
     The enemy's attempts to open die road on April SO and May first were foiled. In two days of fighting the enemy lost 17 tanks and 18 trucks laden with ammunition. The Mujahideen seized 41 guns and captured 36 soldiers. 190 soldiers were either killed or wounded
     on May 2, the Mujahideen destroyed 18 trucks carrying ammunition and food to the soldiers in the besieged city of Jalalabad. Sixteen soldiers were captured and 30 killed or wounded.
     On May 3, eight trucks were destroyed by landmines and nine soldiers were captured. The enemy positions in Sorobi district came under the Mujahideen attack. It is believed that the enemy suffered casualties but no details are available.
      On May 5, the Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and frustrated an enemy attempt to open the road. The enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions.
      On May 6, the enemy launched a major attack to open the road. The Mujahideen destroyed 20 tanks and 20 trucks and oil tankers, killed or wounded 30 soldiers and captured 15 solders with their guns.
      Sorobi distric was grounded by Mujahideen artillery as result of which38 enemy soldiers were killed or
wounded.
    On May 7, the enemy air force bombed the Mujahideen positions which continued all day. A recoiless rifle and a BM-12 rocket launcher of the Mujahideen were destroyed.
    The Mujahideen fired rockets pn the enemy positions in Sorobi which set an ammunition dump on fire.
    On May 8, an enemy attack was repulsed. Eight tanks were destroyed with TOW wire-guided missiles and 14 trucks were captured. The enemy air force carried out several air raids which caused no casualties.
    On May 9, the Mujahideen fired heavy weapon into the enemy positions and the communists retaliated by aerial bombing.
    On May 10, the enemy lost five tanks and two trucks when it launched an attack to open the road. Twelve enemy soldiers were killed and six captured. The Mujahideen seized 10 guns.
    The enemy BM-13 rocket launcher in Sorobi was destroyed by the Mujahideen.
    ♦Three enemy soldiers were killed and six captured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post in Khawja Musafir area on Kabul Paghman road on March 30.
    The Mujahideen seized 20 Kalashinkov rifles, one mortar, two grenov machine guns and some amount of ammunition.
    In the operation which was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to commander Mullah Ezat one Mujahid was injured and a number of houses were destroyed by regime shelling of the area.
    ♦On April 7, the enemy positions in Bagh-e-Daud on Paghman-Kabu! road was attacked with ground-to-ground rockets.
    Three enemy tanks and one truck were set on fire, two buildings were destroyed and an unknown number of soldiers belonging a Special Guard unit were killed.
    In a retaliatory attack by the enemy, one Mujahid from Paghman and three civilians from Khawja Musafir were killed and several houses were destroyed.
    ♦On April 26, the Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with the enemy forces in Kariz Mir, about 10 kilome ters north of the city of Kabul as a result of which 17 enemy soldi^rs^and officers were killed and five were captured. Two Mujahideen were killed and five wounded. They seized five Kalashnikov rifles.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page
 Vho is who in the Mujahideen
 Com. Mawlawi Alam
     Commander Mawlawi Mohammad Alam, head of Balkh province, was 1 xjm 45 years ago in a small village, called Jang, in Nahr-e-Shahi district His father, Haji Ghulam Haider was an influential man in his village. His family economically was in a good shape. His Saracha or guest-room was always full of guests. The gate of his garden was open to the villagers to use it" said Mawlawi Alam's representative in Peshawar.
     "There was no school in the village where Alam was bom, therefore his father sent him to the mosque to learn Quran, the basics of Islam and persian language,” said his representative.
     Mawlawi Alam was sent latter to Mazar-i-Sharif. the provincial capital of Balkh, to join the Assadia Madrasa (religious school). Alam learned from school as well as from the city itself a lot of things.
     Alam completed his school in 1969. "He was not a hardworking student. He passed the Madrasa with lowo* marks," said Aziz a classmate of Mawlawi Alam.
     In 1970 Mawlawi Alam went to Kabul University and joined faculty of Islamic law ( Shariat). That time was the most critical time in the campus. Communists and other related parties including the regime wanted to undermine Islam as a way of life. Faculty Of Sharaiat was one of the targets that the communists wanted to deal with. At that time the faculty of Islamic law was the most important center of Muslim activists. Mawlawi Alam was one of them.
     After completing college he was appointed as attorney in the Balkh district. It was his third year of his job when the communists took over.
     Mawlawi Alam left the job and started to mobilize civilian population around anti-communists movement Those days were the most difficult days of the war against the commu nists. Mujahideen were few in number, scattered in different villages with few pieces of equipment and almost no am munition and none had the experience of fighting." Recalled Mawlawi Aziz, the Balkh representative in Peshawar.
     Mazar Sharif being highly strategic and vital for the regime and the Russians, was always a target of the enemy. The government tactic was to allow no bases of the Mujahideen to be built in and around the city.
     Government intelligence worked in its full capacity against the Mujahideen
 in the province.
     Mawlawi Alam contacted the most charismatic commanders of the Mujahideen, Shaheed (Martyred) Zabihullah Khan.
     Zabihullah appointed him as the head of his Military Office in Balkh in which he worked for about three years. "Zabihullah was commander, teacher, elder brother and a leader, so Mawlawi Alam learned from Zabihullah not just military tactics but also how to deal with the people in a war situation". Said his representative in Peshawar.
     Mawlawi Alam also learned how to build a rival administration. "He was following Zabihullah like his shadow,” said Aziz.
     When Zabihullah Khan was Martyred in an ambush by KHAD agents infiltrated into the ranks of Mujahideen, Prof. Rabbani appointed Mawlawi Alam as the Amir (administrative head) of Balkh province. "No one could fill die gap created by the loss of Zabihullah, but Mawlawi Alam at least helped the organization, built by Zabihullah, not to collapse," Azir
     His military commander Alam Khan, who is also a lover of late Zabihullah, helped Mawlawi Alam to maintain the military strength of Zabihullah's organization (Now called Zabihullah Shaheed front).
     Mawlawi Alam made a council after the death of Zabihullah to decide on . important matters. He included in that Council military commanders, Ulama and elders. The Russians launched two offensives immediately after
 Zabihullah's death to destroy his bases in Marmoul but failed.
     Mawlawi Alam himself participated in the capture of Sangcharak garrison in 1987. There are two key commanders who help Mawlawi Alam.They are Moslem Atta and commander Alam.
     Mawlawi Alam maintained his relations with the Supervisory Council of the North. He sent his commander, Alam Khan, to meet commander Masood in January 1989 to discuss future plans in the North particularly in Balkh with him.
     Mawlawi Alam is a soft-spoken and sociable person. He is interested in riding and hunting.
 Movement
                                           From page (5)
 them or not, and he would not reveal the secrets under any conditions. I am not aware whether anyone violated his commitments.
   D- The first major progress in the work of the new organization was drafting of a charter for Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. Educational cells were created on the basis of die charter, so that the members could receive proper religions and scientific training and be ready for fulfilling their responsibilities in their Islamic society.
   I was in charge of preparing lessons for the organizational cells. Since issuings related to the basics of belief are especially important, I began from there. I prepared some lessons about "Tawhid" (Oneness of divinity). Members of the cells received the lessons very enthusiastically. They demanded more than I could offer in a certain time limit.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page Q
                                Afghans should be helped to determine their future
     The struggle of Afghans to determine their future is close to victory. To reach that goal, continuationof armed struggle is necessary and they need moral and material support of the world community.
     International support for the resistance played a key role in driving the Soviet invaders out of Afghanistan. The world supported Afghans because they were invaded by a superpower and were deprived of the right for self-determination.
     In the UN, NAM and OIC resolutions which were passed by absolute majority of votes, in addition to the call for withdrawal of Soviet troops the right of Afghans to determine their future also were emphasized.
     The withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was a victory for Afghans and all those who lent their support to Afghans in their just struggle. Soviets have left but the issue of the right of self-determination has not been solved yet.
     Though the Soviet troops have left, that country's military advisors still operate in Afghanistan and great quantities of very sophisticated weapons are being sent to the puppet regime in Kabul. Soviets seem determined to impose their puppets on the people of Afghanistan by arms , money and political support.
     National reconciliation, coalition government and autonomy for different regions are traps designed by Moscow to insure the survival of its puppets and through them their control in a neighboring country.
     For Afghans and the majority of world's nations Najib's regime is illegal and unacceptable. Afghans cannot coexist with a party which has committed untold crimes against its own people during the 10 years of war. The call for peace does not make sense from a man who has been the founder of KHAD which is responsible for the murder and torture of tens of thousands of Afghans. This is why no significant individual or group has accepted these propaganda ploys and armed struggle still continues.
     This is why no political solution is available for the Afghan problem. Military defeat of the regime is the only option left for the purpose of bringing peace to Afghanistan.
     Some people expected a quick victory of the Mujahideen over the regime forces after the withdrawal of Soviet troops. Now that the war has been prolonged for some months, they think that military victory of the Mujahideen is difficult and think in terms of a negotiated settlement with the regime.*
     This way of thinking is as naive as the expectation of an early victory for the Mujahideen. Though the Mujahideen’s final victory has not. materialised, die enemy is loosing ground gradually. If the enemy loses 150 tanks and trucks in 15 days fighting in Sorobi front, how long can it take such tremendous losses of men and material? Soviets may give aid to the regime but foreign aid has a limit. If the war is escalated in the rest of the country the puppet regime will find the situation very difficult to control.
     A quick victory is a desirable think for the Mujahideen and their supporters but the speed of development in the military field depends on internal factors such as weather, level of supplies, coordination among different groups. Speeding up things for the sole purpose public relations could lead to disastrous mistakes.
     Despite the delay of few months of the Mujahideen victory, the people in Afghanistan, those with the Mujahideen and those living under control of the regime, consider the victory of the Mujahideen inevitable.
     The right for self-determination is the natural right of Afghans. If is not achieved peacefully it worth fighting for. Support for such a cause is a moral duty of all. It is not taking side in a civil war because the war against the regime is the continuation of the war for liberation.
                                                          By Habib Rahman
    The US ambassador's remarks about the negative role of Iran and Soviet Union, expressed in an Interview with BBC was unfair to Iran and offending to Afghans.
    Mr. Robert Oakley, US ambassador to Pakistan, told BBC that if Iran and Soviet Union supported their agents, Afghanistan could turn into another Lebanon.
    This was an unfair remark about the role of Iran, a country which has supported our cause and continues to do so.
    Although Iran's material contribution to Afghan Jehad has not been as significant as Afghans expected from a friendly Islamic country, that country's political, moral and humanitarian support to the resistance was very important
    To compare the role of Soviet Union which invaded Afghanistan with Iran which opposed the aggression is unfair indeed.
    Mr. Oakley's remark is very offending to the Iran-based parties and other Afghans. Shia parties are the inseparable part of the Afghan resistance. Their absence from the interim government does not make them legible to be compared with the communist party in Afghanistan. All Afghans are patriots no matter whether are based in one neighboring country or another.
    Difficulties between Iran and the United States should not justify unfair remarks.
    Afghans' struggle against the Soviet Union show that they do not tolerate domination of outside forces, close or far. This nation will not allow outside powers to divide their country or turn it into another Lebanon. Afghan Shia community is as patriot as its Sunni community.
    Shia groups are not the agents of Iran and Sunni groups can not be the agents of Pakistan or other countries. They have sought refuge in the neighboring countries to continue struggle for the freedom of their country. They consider the people of these countries their Islamic brothers who are obliged by their common religion, Islam, to support their oppressed brothers.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15,1989, page @
 Glimpses into the historical background of Part(4)
 The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
      After receiving doctorate degree in Fiqh methodology from Al-Azhar University, I returned to Kabul in 1972 and was appointed as professor in Faculty of Shariat, Kabul University. I was not unfamiliar with the the situation of the Movement. The reason was that I was in constant touch with the brothers in Afghanistan while I was in Egypt My information was in such detail that I knew the names as well as some characteristics of many members who had joined the Movement after I had left Kabul. Thus, immediately we became close friends and companions for fulfilling our great religious duty.
 found the atmosphere ripe for fast and significant developments in the history of the Movement. So far, the work had progressed under leadership of a number of the professors of the Faculty of Shariat and some prominent students from various faculties without any formal organization. Martyred Prof. Ghulam Mohammad Niazi was generally recognized as the head of the Movement. Shortly after my arrival, however, the following developments took place:
      A- Some professors of the Faculty of Shariat and a number of prominent personalities among the students gathered together in Prof. Rabbani's house to discuss the organizational format of the Movement They were: (1) Prof. Rabbani (2) Martyred Eng. Habibur Rahman, (3) Prof. Abdur Rkb Rasul Sayyaf, (4) Martyred Mawlawi Habibur Rahman, (5) Martyred Eng. Saifuddin,
 (6) Martyred Sayyed Abdur Rahman,
 (7)  Martyred Prof. Abdul Qader Tawana, (8) Qazi Abdul Bari, (9) Said Noorullah Emad, (10) Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai, (11) Sayyed Enayatullah Shadab, (12) the writer.
      The group decided the following:
      (1)     Formation of a leadership council consisting of the present members and two other brothers who were not present, i.e., Hikmatyar and Martyred Dr. Mohammad Omar.
      (2)      Division of work among the prominent members of the Movement as the following:
      -Prof. Rabbani as the leader and chairman of the leadership council,
      -Prof. Sayyaf as deputy leader,
      -Eng Habibur Rahman as secretary and in charge of military affairs
                         Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
  (we considered the secretary as the third ranking person),
     -Eng. Saifuddin Nasratyar in charge of organizing the youth,
     •Mawlawi Habibur Rahman in charge of organizing the Ulama (religious scholars) and relationship with them,
     -Said Abdur rahman in charge of
 finance,
     -Martyred Prof. Abdul Qader Tawana in charge of the organization in Balkh province,
     - Qazi Abdul Bari in charge of relations with workers and farmers and organizing their affairs,
     -Sayyed Noorullah Emad in charge of the organization in Herat province,
     -I was put in charge of cultural affairs. Enayatullah Shadab and Ahmadzai were appointed my assistants.
     It should be noted that Eng. Hikmatyar and Dr. Mohammad Omar were in jail at that time. It was decided that they would be in charge of political activities after their release. In a seperate meeting in which Prof. Rabbani, Eng Habibur Rahman, prof. Niazi, I and some other members from outside the University were present, it was decided that Prof. Niazi would supervise the political section.
  Some points need clarification about what is mentioned above:
       1.       Various duties and authorities were not clearly delimited.
     2.      Brothers found it advisable for Prof. Niazi to refrain from participation in our meetings and limit his contact to the organization through Prof. Rabbani and few others. It was felt that he would be in a better position to defend Islamic Movement from his official position as the chairman of the Faculty of Shariat Prof. Niazi himself was of the same views.
     3.      The above mentioned list does not include all the prominent personalities active in the Movement. For example:
     -Abdur Rahim Niazi who was one of the most active and prominent student members of the Movement had passed away before the first organizational meeting was held. Therefore, his name is not in the list.
     -Martyred Ghulam Rabbani Ateesh was also an active and prominent member. I do not recall, however, whether he was present in the first meeting and
 was put in charge of some task or not
     -Soofi Qurban Mohammad was the most active person tor the Islamic cause in Kabul University in 1965-67. During the first organizational meeting, however, he was out of Kabul. There were also some other active members who were out of the country at that time.
     -There were a number of members who had left the Movement by the time of the first organizational meeting. They had joined the ranks of the enemies of the Movement They are not included in the above list either.
     B- Members of the leadership council selected the name "Jami'at Islami", (Islamic Society) for their blessed Movement in the first organizational meeting. Being more concerned with action that name and also being cautious about the Government's anti-religious persecution had made the founding members of the Movement not to adopt any name.
     When the Movement grew among the students and they began having public meetings, the young members of the Movement called themselves "Jawanan Musulman" (Muslim Youths). Others, and especially the enemies, however, used to call them "Ikhwan Muslimeen” (Muslim Brotherhood). I do not have any idea who first used these two names.
     I recall very well that a number of us discussed the issue of selecting a name for the Movement in one of the classrooms of the Faculty of Shariat. We selected the name "Jamiat" because it resembled the word "Jamaat" in the name of "Jamaat Ikhwan Muslemeen" of Egypt and "Jamaat Islami" of Pakistan but was also distinct from both.
 There were no significant differences among us at that time. I had heard, though, some brothers speaking about seeing the first signs of differences among some members. Eng. Habibur Rahman had noticed that first. It is not advisable to talk about the issue in detail at this point of time.
     C- Each brother had made written commitment that he would work for the supremacy of the word of God, he would oppose the enemies of God's religion, he would obey the orders of the leadership willingly whether he liked
                                                                                                               Tumtopage(3)
- -          AFGHANews Vol5, No 10, May 15,1989, page ©
    Com.Masood advises formation of united command for attack
                  on Kabul
    A group of western journalists met with Commander Ahmad Shah Masood in Panjshir valley on April 13 and asked him about his plans. The following is the account of their interview:
                                                        Summary
    The attack on Kabul should be launched by all the Mujahideen forces especially those who have bases around Kabul. I am busy taking account of my forces in and around Kabul. After completion of the evaluation 1 will take appropriate steps to deal with the enemy.
    Kabul is a vulnerable target It can be besieged easily. The people of Kabul detest the regime and the enemy forces forces assigned to defend Kabul has many shortcomings in terms of quality and quantity. The reaction of the enemy forces defending Kabul depends on the behavior of the Mujahideen in dealing with the soldiers and others who surrender to them in other places. If the capture of other cities is orderly and those who surrender are dealt with properly the enemy soldiers will not put up a tough resistance. Party people will fight but their number is not sufficient to defend the capital on their own.
    I have contacted commanders around Kabul like Abdul Haq and Anwari. Formation of a united command is necessary before launching the final attack on Kabul. If any of the Mujahideen brothers can provide a united leadership I am ready to work under him.
    We have not prevented food and fuel to reach Kabul so that the ordinary people should not suffer, but have blocked the Salang fen the enemy military convoys.
    Our struggle is Jehad. It is not a contest between Piishtqns and Tajiks or a war between North and South. Jami'at has considerable influence in Pushtuspeaking areas and we have contacts with distinguished Push tun commanders. We have had problems with Hizb and other Mujahideen parties have problem with it too. But the problems are lesser than the past
    There is no possibility of compromise with the communist regime. Our aim is to eliminate the communist parly and establish an Islamic system.
    Despite the shortcomings of the
 interim government of the Mujahideen, we endorse it for the greater interest of Muslims.
     Q. When you have cleared the North East of government troops do you plan to train an orderly force for the taking of Kabul: is this still your plan?
     A. In the name of God the most merciful. It is not my plan to train a force and attack Kabul independently. Rather I envisage preparing the ground in such a way that all the important Mujahideen bases, especially those around Kabul, should cooperate under a united leadership, to attack kabul. This work has already begun and I have been in touch with other commanders.
     Q. Do you want to clear the North East of government troops before attacking Kabul, or not?
     A. That depends on circumstances. If we see that circumstances are favorable and that God willing we can occupy Kabul, then in that case it is not necessary to keep our forces engaged in the North. It would be better to seize the opportunity and attack Kabul . Otherwise we could probably start the campaign in the remoter areas like Kunduz and Mazar Sharif.
     Q. What are your forces doing now?
     A. At the moment 1 am busy taking account of my own forces of men I have: within the army in Kabul. In my opinion the government troops in Kabul are very vulnerable. First, because Kabul is a city that could easily be besieged by Mujahideen. It has only two means of access to the outside world: one is the airport of Kwajarawash arid the other, the Salang highway- and (now)’the Salang is mostly blocked. Secondly the people of Kabul as has been proved in the past and as I know from accurate information, really detest this regime. There also remains the question of the government armed forces within the city of Kabul. Which in terms of quantity and quality have such serious shortcomings. They will not be able to resist an orderly attack which takes place under a united leadership.
     Q. Will you be able to convince
 Najib's troops around Kabul to surrender without fighting?
     A. The forces in Kabul will not resist but only if the Mujahideen are able to take some important cities before attacking Kabul and if the treatment of soldiers and civilians is truly conciliatory and Islamic, I am certain that the soldiers in Kabul will not put up a stiff resistance and not much blood will be shed. But of course , certain party members who for years have betrayed their people and have committed crimes, (they) will put up a determined struggle. But these are a minority and can in no way defend Kabul on their own.
     Q. We saw a large convoy taking food and fuel to Kabul. What is your policy about convoys coming from the soviet Union?
     A. Not only now as you have witnessed, but also at no time in the past have I ever prevented food or fuel getting to the people of Kabul. We have always tried to ensure that food convoys reach Kabul safely. This is because the people of Kabul have suffered unduly from food shortages, and this same policy continues now.
     But since the fighting around Jalalabad has started, we have closed the Salang to convoys carrying military supplies to the enemy. And as much as the government tries to reopen the road it has been unable to do so. The forces that die government was bringing from Mazar to reinforce Jalalabad are still waiting in Pul-e-Khumri or Khenjan, waiting for the road to open. For the last two months the Mujahideen in the Salang have been resisting ceaselessly, blocking the road only to let the enemy military convoys-though not to let food or civilian supplies through going to Kabul.
      In the present conditions, when there are no serious attacks on Kabul it is not necessary to cut off all food supplies from civilians. But of course, whenever it is decided to make a serious attack on Kabul then that will be the time when all the supplies to Kabul will be cut off.
     I have received the news that the government is stockpiling food and using it to further its military aims. I have therefore issued warnings that food supplies must be distributed to die ci-
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10t May 15,1989, page Q
 vilians of Kabul. If in future we would learn that the government is still not distributing food to the civilians of Kabul we will probably have to impose a total block on the Salang.
     Q. Some of the Pushtun leaders have told us that there is a rivalry between them and you for the taking of Kabul, and they are determined that victory lies with them and if necessary they are prepared to fight to stop your advance. How do you intend to confront this problem?
     A. The war in Afghanistan began on basis of Islam, and thanks be to God, until now the Jehad has progressed on the basis of Islamic ideology and there is no place in Islam for questions of language or local patriotism. I take no account of Pushtu or Persian, nor of the North versus the South. We are all Muslims and we are all struggling to reach the same goal. The brothers gathered together in the Council of the North, have no time for this and we have no sense of rivalry with anyone over the taking of Kabul. As I said before we are trying to gather everyone together to bring a common center into being to form a united command and to attack Kabul all together.
     I am in contact with most of the Pushtun commanders like Mawlawi Jalaluddin, Abdul Haq, Mawlawi Arsala, commander Anwar( of Jegdalik) who is a Pushtun and a member of the Shura Nizar and others.
     Q. Some Pushtun commanders are determined to capture Kabul before your forces comedown from the North. What do you think of this?
     A. Well first of all I must draw your attention to this point that it is ten years, and more than ten years, that war has been fought in Afghanistan. Different people from different areas have all taken part in this war and are armed. Each group has established itself in its own area and it would not be possible to bring about a radical change in Afghanistan if Kabul is taken only by one group, or, if only one party occupies Kabul it would be a mistake to think it could rule over Afghanistan. Q. The fighting between Jami'at and Hikmatyar's party is an old problem, and as we came to the Panjshir we saw that it continues. How do you consider the hostility to yourself on the part of Hihnatyar and his party?
      A. In the past there was fighting between Hikmatyar's party on the one hand and all the other parties on the other. But praise be to God, such fighting has been lessened and this discord not longer exists on the same level as it used to. I do not deny that problems
 exist at the moment, but these problems are not of an order to cause real concern. The fights you saw are mere local squabbles and it is very difficult to prevent such fights.
     Q. Did you have direct talks with Hikmatyar , and if you did what were the results?
     A. I have had no direct meeting with Hikmatyar, only Hikmatyar sent a delegation last year to the center of Shura Nizar. This delegation brought various suggestions with it. Of the three suggestions we rejected two and accepted one. The first suggestion was that the Shura Nizar should leave Jami'at and join Hizb, as this was unreasonable it was rejected. The second suggestion was that Shura and Hizb form a new party under a new name. This suggestion was also rejected. The third suggestion was that I should meet directly with Hikmatyar to discuss the end of hostilities between Hizb and Jami'at. As I have always wanted to stop these conflicts I got ready to meet Hikmatyar. Unfortunately after this meeting with the Hizb Island delegation, one of Jami'at Island's famous commanders called T^riq, who was in charge of the zone to the East of us, was murdered by a member of Hizb Island. This incident once again darkened our relationship and we then decided not to meet Hikmatyar. Even though we are not in touch with Hizb HQ, we are in touch with most of the . Hizb Island commanders.
     Q. Najibullah's troops are successfully defending Jalalabad, has this caused a lowering of Mujahideen morale and a raising of the morale of government forces.?
     A. On the contrary I don not accept that the government forces are making a successful defense of Jalalabad. As has been seen, the Mujahideen are day by day tightening their encirclement of Jalalabad and have been able to occupy one position after another. As far as I am informed, Najib’s entire experienced fighting forces have left Kabul for Jalalabad, and it was these new forces that was able to revive and strengthen the (government's) resistance,
      Q. After the fifth meeting what decisions were taken for the taking of Kabul?
      A. The decisions were not taken specifically regarding the taking of Kabul. The military decision was taken that those areas abandoned by the Soviets should be occupied by the forces of the Shura Nizar, and in that meeting it was decided to create an Islamic army of 10,000 men.
     Q. Certain leaders accuse you of agreeing to a coalition government with Najib. Is this true?
  • A. In the ten or more years that the war has been fought in Afghanistan, in this time individuals and Mujahideen groups have clearly proved themselves. The people as well as other Mujahideen well know which groups are prepared to collaborate, and which groups are not prepared to collaborate. In this respect, "I have said over and over again, I have noL been and am not prepared to countenance any collaboration with the Russians and never with Najib."
     Q. What conditions would have to be met before you would.negotiate with Najibullah?
     A, Dr. Najib and other members of the communist party are principally responsible for the misfortunes of Afghanistan. The communist party in Afghanistan was the sole cause for the bloodshed, and the continued existence of the party will guarantee the continuation of booldshed in this country. The sole condition for bringing this war to an end is that this party should be prepared to step down from power.
     Q. You did not attend the Islamabad Shura. Is the provisional government valid? If not, what steps must be taken to form a government acceptable to all Afghans?
     A. There is no doubt that the provisional government of the Mujahideen has many shortcomings. The most important failure of this government is that an important section of the Afghan population-that is our Shiite brothers have no share in this government.
     Secondly when this meeting was called in Islamabad, it was claimed that most commanders in Afghanistan had been notified. That is not true, most commanders were not notified. For example I myself received an invitation to send representatives to this meeting only two days before it started. Thus many Mujahideen inside Afghanistan were unable to take part in this process.
     Thirdly each party was given 60 votes. Whereas inside Afghanistan these parties' respective strengths differ greatly. There are some parties which have very strong groups inside Afghanistan, whilst others have hardly anything. In this case an equal distribution of votes is not just. In spite of al these shortcomings, for the sake of unity of Muslims, and in order to maintain a seamless unity of Mujahideen in these exceptional historical circumstances, the Shura Nizar endorses and supports this provisional government
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 10, May 15, 1989, page ©
          Regime may use chemical weapons against Mujahideen
    The Soviet Union will face. American sanctions if the communist regime in Kabul uses chemical weap-ons against the Mujahideen.
    U.S congressional leaders introduced to the house a legislation which would require the secretary of state to certify that chemical weapons are not used in Afghanistan approving pending business with the Soviet Union.
    If chemical weapons are used against the Mujahideen legislation will prohibit US government to issue export licenses to companies involved in business with the Soviet Union.
    Soviet Union has provided chemical weapons to the regime in Kabul and has control over the conditions of its use.
    Recent reports talk of issuing gas masks among the soldiers in Jalalabad front, a possible sign of preparation for use of chemical weapons against the Mujahideen.
    Strong protests against use of
chemical weapons by the Soviet Union limited it use during the years of occupation. The US Congress measure can decrease the danger but cannot eliminate it. A desperate enemy may consider public opinion less important then its immediate military need.
     In the face of imminent evidences of preparation of the regime to use chemical weapons, the Mujahideen must prepare for the eventual situation.
     The Mujahideen need protective gear and knowledge about the way to protect themselves and the civilian population against chemical weapons.
     A spokesman of the Kabul regime has said that the regime has not used chemical weapons against the Mujahideen and will not use them in the future.
     Informed sources say that Soviet Union has handed over to the regime stockpiles of chemical weapon after they left Afghanistan.
Regime fires Scud into refugee camp in Pakistan
    A Scud missile fired by the Kabul regime killed two and injured 14 Afghan refugees on May 5 near the city of Bannu.
    The incident took place two days after Najib, the head of Kabul regime, warned Pakistan of the expansion of war to Pakistan if that country continued to support the Mujahideen.
    On April 7, regime had fired the first Scud missile into the border town of Torkham. The recent firing took place against Gambili refugee camp about 30 miles South of Bannu and 70 mile from Pafc- Afghan border.
    Kabul regime in statement read out (Hi regime-controlled radio denied firing the missile but said that it reserved the right to hit what he called "the centers used by the counter-revolutionaries” a reference to the refugee camps in Pakistan.
    The late incident took place after the UN Security Council ended its debate about charges made by the regime against Pakistan of violating the
Geneva accords.
     Scud missiles have a range of more than 300 kilometers and has a war head of 1000 kilograms.
     A large number of these missiles have been airlifted from the Soviet Union to Kabul to boost the capabilities of the regime in the war against the Mujahideen.
     Regime have used this missile against the Mujahideen in Panjshir, Ningarhar and other places. Though it is not a very effective weapon against the Mujahideen positions, it can be very dangerous against the towns. Most of the victims of Scud missiles are civilians.
     It is believed that Soviets are still assisting the regime in firing the Scud missiles. There are an unknown number of Soviet military advisors in Afghanistan which help the regime even after completion of troops withdrawal.
     BM-27 rocket launcher also have been deliverd to the regime recently which a range of 40 kilometers.
 Mazar-i

 Jami'at chief commander in Balkh
 province has had a meeting with the head of the Supervisory Council of the North, Ahmad Shah Masood to evolve a joint strategy against the Soviet-backed regime.
     This was the first meeting between them since the death of Zabiullah, the famous Mujahideen commander in Mazar who had very close relations with Masood.
     Alam Khan the Chief Commander of Jami'at in the province went to one of the bases of the Supervisory Council to discuss future courses of action against the enemy with Masood.
     A spokesman of Balkh Mujahideen called the meeting an extremely good development
     Commander Masood co-operated closely with the late Zabiullah and the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mazar consider Masood as their elder brother who wants to help them.
     The Meeting will expand the role of the Supervisory Council of the North in Balkh and its neighboring provinces.
     Balkh and the neighboring provinces of Samangan, Jozjan and Faryab are of strategic importance to the two sides in the conflict because they are close to the Soviet border. The Kabul-Hairatan road passes through the area and gas fields are located there.
     If the above provinces in which Jami'at has a dominating presence are organized , the Supervisory Council of the North will be connected to Herat, the Jami'at stronghold in the west of the country. The untimely death of Zabiullah had created a gap which is about to be filled through close cooperation of Balkh Mujahideen with the Supervisory Council of the North.
                                              Persian publication after 50 years
    A publication in Arabic script has appeard in the Soviet Union for the first time for more than 50 years, Tass reported on Friday.
    A children's magazine in the Tajik language using Arabic scrip, has been put on sale at Dushanbe, the agency said. Arabic script was abolished in the Soviet Union in 1935 by Joseph Stalin.