MTHEItAMBOf AUHOHTT ALLAH 1
A FGH A Nnews
                A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT BLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                         TOL. Ill NO. 1.1/1/1967.
                                        TRIP TO AFRICA VERY USEFUL
  Prof. Rabbani concluded his African lour and returned back to Peshawar. During this trip he visited Gabon. Niger and Senegal. At the end of his African tour he also paid an official visit to Belgium There he had discussions with the prime minister and foreign minister of that country.
  In $abon, he met President Omar Bongo on December 6 in the presidential palace in Libreville.
^ *
  During the meeting Prof. Rabbani described the situation in Afghanistan and the problems the Resistance is facing. He explained hoar the Soviets extended their influence in Afghanistan and finally invaded the country.
  Tho President took a deep interest in the discussions and asked many questions vhich ▼ere ansvered by Rabbani.
  President Bongo said that ho has opposed the Soviet invasion and continue to do so. He assured Prof. Rabbani of his strong support in the coming Islamic Summit in Kuvait. He added* Your struggle is just. You light for your defense. I support you and pray for you success*.
  Prof. Rabbani and other members of his delegation had more meetings vith high ranking officials of Gabon.
                    On December 9th. Prof. Rabbani met ICaj-Gon. Seyni Eountche President of the Supreme
  Military council of Niger in the presidential palace In Niamey.
                                       >
  Prof. Rabbani described the situation in Afghanistan and the Soviet's aim of the' invasion.The Professor said that the invasion of Afghanistan vis not an isolated incident but Soviets had plans beyond Afghanistan. Prof. Rabbani said that the Soviet invasion was not against only Afghanistan but against all Muslims He also told the • President about the achievements of the Mujahideen in the battle fields. Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for a more active support to Afghan cause by African countries vrho hive a tradition of anti-colonial struggle.
  President Kountche praised the heroism of Afghans in defense of their homeland.Be said that Niger has supported the cause of Afghans in the past and Till continue to do so in the future. The President regretted the fact that there is division among Islamic countries vhich hss stopped them from taking a strong position in support of Afghans in their just struggle. He said that That happened to Afghanistan could happen to other Islamic countries. Muslims must defend their faith against any aggressor coming from anywhere. He assured Rabbani of his country's full support
  In the last leg of his trip. Prof. Rabbani visited Senegal and met President Abdou Diouf on December 11.
RF8HRN HEUS UOL.III,, HO. I, 1/1/196? PR6E 2
Prof. Rabbani described the military-political situation in Afghanistan to his host. Mentioning the sufferings of the people of Afghanistan, he said, "So far one million people have died and five million people have become refugees in neighbouring countries. 75% of all the villages and towns have been destroyed. Still the Soviets are busy killing people and destroying the country". Talking about the Soviets propaganda Professor said." They talk about withdrawal of their forces but in reality they are escalating the war” About the will of the people of Afghanistan to continue their struggle he said," They can burn our houses and destroy our villages and towns and kill our innocent people but cannot weaken our will and determination to continue our struggle till victory Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for a strong political support to Afghan cause by the African countries and underlined the role Senegal can play in this respect.
President Diouf assured Prof. Rabbani of the continuation of support to the Afghan cause . He disapproved of the genocidal policy of the Soviets in Afghanistan The. president agreed on principle that an Information Bureau of the Mujahideen should be opened in Dakar
On the way back from Africa, Prof. Rabbani paid a two days official visit to Belgium. On December 13, he met the Prime Minister of Belgium and on 16 the Foreign Minister of that country. The sides discussed military and political situation in Afghanistan. Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan who are facing severe difficulties
Afghan News believes that the trip to Africa was very successful. The people in the third world countries are in a good position to understand our situation. These types of trips increases the awareness of the masses about the situation in Afghanistan. If it is done properly and regularly the political pressure on the the Soviets will increase and they have to pay a higher price for their aggression. Afghanistan belongs to the Muslim world which is part of the third world. Political work in these countries must be
a proirity for our political struggle.
                                         NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                       OAND A BAR PROVINCE
3/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami at under the command of Mullah Naqib attacked the Soviet-Puppet base in Sofi Alaiur Rah&ma. about 4 Km. North of Qandahar city with BM-12 rockets. 14 APCs and trucks were destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.
flPDMRMMiUQyCL.nl, H0.1, 1/1/(907 PflDE 3
| 3/12/1986. Mujahideen from jami'at supported by the Mujahideen from other parties
   ambushed a Soviet convoy which was coming from Herat to Oandahar in Dorahi Shah Agha‘ about 8 Km Vest of Oandahar city. Fighting continued the Thole day. As a result of this attack 16 APCs and trucks Tore destroyed. Mujahideen captured a heavy machinegun, 3 AK-74s, 3 light mortars and a Tireless set. 8 Mujahideen Tere martyred but the casualties of the enemy Tere not immediately knoTn.
                                             KUNAR PROVINCE
   8/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy post in Rooki in Chouki district with BM-12 The shells hit the targets but the casualties of the enemy Tere not
   immediately known.
   9/12/1986. Mujahideen attacked Chouki district headquarters Tith BM-12. Some * buildings Tere set on fire but the casualties of the enemy Tere not immediately known.
                                                                 I
   10/12/1986 Mujahideen attacked tho Administration headquarters of Khas lunar district with BM-12 ground-to-ground rockets and mortars. Casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
                                            PAITIA PROVINCE
   On 22/11/1986 enemy forces composed of more than one hundred tanks and trucks moved from Khost Cantonment towards Kandaw jawar to block the supply routes of the Mujahideen. The enemy established posts in Sangi of Mona Kandaw Vazirgul Kotki and Badskagul Kotki. Mujahideen of all the parties resisted the enemy and fighting has continued since the enemy came to the area.
                                                       *—«
   On 18/12/1986. Mujahideen attacked Vaxirgul Kotki post with BM-12 as a result of which 2 APCs and 2 pieces of 122mm. guns were destroyed and 13 soldiers were killed. The next day Mujahideen captured the Post Mujahideen captured more than hundred light weapons and some heavy machinguns. Tani tribe is fighting the enemy in the side of -the Mujahideen. Enemy casualties are high and there are no figures for the Mujahideen's casualties during the fighting. Fighting still continues.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
   19/11/1986. Soviet-puppet forces attacked Mujahideen positions Vest of Herat city. Enemy lost one APC and one truck. No figure is given for the casualties of the two sides.
   20/11/1986. Mujahideen attacked some posts of the enemy second security belt Vest of Herat city. Four posts and two APCs were destroyed and 30 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The enemy retaliated with aerial bombardments of the Mujahideen positions as a result of which two Mujahideen were martyred.
   27/11/1986. Mujahideen from Pash toon Zarghoon district attacked the enemy base in the area. Three enemy soldiers were killed, two Mujahideen and three civilians were martyred io the fighting.
                                           WE WERE SHOCKED
   late communal violence in Karachi in which a large number of precious lives were bist was a shocking news for all Muslims all over the world.
flFUHRH hCM8 VCL. 1(1/H0.1, 1/1/1907 PflDE 4
As Muslims and the guest of the people of Pakistan. Afghan refugees were saddened by the news of communal disturbances. We hope that the atmosphere of love and mutual trust return back in that city soon.
                                           INTERVIEW WITH RABBANI
(EXTRACTS FROM PROF. B. RABBANl'S INTERVIEW WITH BBC CORRESPONDENCE. GEORGE ARNEY. ON NOVEMBER 10,1986.)
0 What do you think about the Mujahideen delegation which went to New York?
A. We approve of the trip and have sent our representative with the delegation. We consider such delegations useful.
0 How do you find the Unity ( among seven Mujahideen groups)? It seems that you have some criticisms.
A. In our view the Unity has not reached its ideal stage yet.lt is useful as it is. but not to the extent that we wish.
Q What kind of improvements are needed and in which direction?
A There should be one single headquarters. Moreover, our military co-ordination inside the country should be strengthened.
Q Is there already some military co-ordinations inside Afghanistan?
A. Yes. there are a series of co-ordinations among Mujahideen at the present. Certainly such co-ordinations have had positive effects on Jehad.
                                                                  I
0 And there is need for more?
A. Yes, the stronger the co-ordination, the more effective will be the result.
                     Q. Are there practical problems? It seems that Hikmatyar and Sayyaf are not that close
to other groups.
A Of course, all revolutions have problems. We hope the problems are solved in the process of evolution of the revolution.
Q. If it is proven that the U.S.A has provided Stinger missiles to the Mujahideen, will this result in a shift in the Mujahideen's policy? Will there be any changes?
A. We do not have any information about this yet. Jami'at does not have any Stingers, and we do not know how true it is about other groups.
Q, After Pleneum 19, Najib always announces that he wants to establish a government of national reconciliation together with the forces outside the country. Do you consider this is an amnesty? And will this amnesty include you people?
flFCHRHNEVSVCL.III, MG.1, t/1/1901 PRDE 8
A. I believe Najib’s proposals are all useless and nonsense. He hopes to fool the ▼orld and to pretend that his government has been stabilized. He pretends that there has been a shift in policy and he vents to share pover ▼ith others. But in my mind these are all lies. First of ail, Najib is only a puppet and does not have any freedom of choice. Secondly, he does not have any pover and authority in Afghanistan Thirdly, the Russians ▼ill never give him permission to form a government ▼hich is not under the domination of the communistsFourthiy, and more important than all above, even if Najib could fulfil his proposals - ▼hich he cannot- the Mujahideen will never join him. It is obvious that Najib and his band are agents and murderers. The Mujahideen vrill never join vith charlatans and murderers of their nation.
                           TOYMINES: Soviets’ Chrismas present for AFGHAN CHILDREN! ’
 $Mn his propaganda, did he have in mind the Mujahideen leaders?
 I believe his propaganda is aimed at attracting those groups ▼hich are not part of the government but do not have any decisive position against Russians either. His target is the non-Parchami and non-Khalqi communist individuals and groups such as Setam-i-miili, Shuia-i-Javaid, and Afghan Millat.
 Q. The Khalqis ▼ho have run avay ... they as well?
 A. Probably.
 Q. In the government in ▼hich you participate in the future, can the members of the "Democratic Government’ be included?
HFGHRN t€MO VCL.Ill, HQ.1, 1/1/1967 PflOC 6
 A. In my view, since they are criminals and treacherers. they can never participate in the future Afghan government. I believe they should be put on trial rather than taking part in determining the Afghan People s destiny
 Q. How do you see the future of Afghanistan especially in regard to women?
 A. In accordance with the Islamic Sharia, the women will enjoy the Islamic rights and privileges granted to them. When the Islamic government is formed, you will find out the details of how the Islamic sharia treats women.
 Q. Will they receive education?
 A. Why notl
 0 Will there be an election in Afghanistan?
 A. After a transitional stage, there will be elections in Afghanistan.
 Q. Najib wants to say that the conditions of the Muslims have improved in Afghanistan. He paints the mosques and pays a salary to Mullahs.
 A. When the Russians and Russian agents face a defeat vis-a-vis the decisive determination of the people, they put on such false masks. But this is only temporary. If they feel that the critical stage has passed, they will reveal their Satanic faces again.
                              THE LOSS OF TWO IMPORTANT PEOPLE
 Engineer Mohammad Gul and Sayed Burhanuddin were martyred one after the other in two different incidents.
 Eng. Mohammad Gul. a graduate of the faculty of Science of Kabul University and chief administrator of jami'at organization in Perwan province was assassinated by KHAD agents along with four of his companions. He was traveling by Jeep at the mouth of the Ghorband valley when KHAD agent opened fire and killed him on 1/12/1986 He was working for Masood and had proved to be a capable activist and organizer. His martyrdom shocked his friends and Jami'at members and leaden and can be counted as a big loss.
 On a separate incident, Sayed Burhanuddin, the deputy head of jami'at Office in Paris was killed in Nahrin on 11/11/1986 . Burhanuddin who came from a poor family was given a scholarship to study french language and literature. When the country was invaded he joined the resistance. He made two trips to Afghanistan to bring photo and film. During the second mission he was martyred. He is remembered by all those who have met him even once. His good conduct in life, love for Islam and his simple way of life, has earned him a large number of friends.
                               THE LAST WORD OF MARTYRS
According to Islamic principles a person who dies to defend his faith is a martyr. A martyr will be forgiven from all sin, except what he owes to other people.
- flFGHFM NtU© VOL. Ill, NO.t, 1 {\f 1©B7 PttJE 7
Having this in mind Mujahideen when they go to fight usually leave a written will or tell their friends how much he owes from whom and how it should be paid.
Mohammad, an expert in reciting holy Quran joined a group of Mujahideen who were to attack an enemy post in Andarab. Somehow he had felt beforehand that this would be his last day. He distributed all his belongings among Mujahideen fellows and paid what he owed to others. While giving his radio to a Mujahid he put one condition and that was, "Don't listen to undecent music with it It is alright for news and revolutionary songs" He was martyred in action. The story of his death saddened all the people around and they prayed for his soul.
Sayed, another fellow who had come from Paris, was supposed to take part in the battle against Nahrin garrison. His group was supposed to move in darkness and hide themselves for 24 hours close to the enemy positions. It was a cold night. He went and washed himself in the river and started to recite holy Quran. When the attack started his group captured their target. The enemy mortar shells crushed among them. He and some others were injured badly He said to a man close to him: "I will be martyred soon. This is what I wished. My books should be given to Mehrab,.a friend of mine and 1 owe some money to a French Journalist which should be paid from my money".
Agha Shireen a group commander was waiting very close to the enemy line for the last instruction from his commander. He was seen writing something in a small note pad. One hour later he was dead. The notes he had taken was about the money he owed to some friends and how it should be paid.
The events show hoV our heroes are preparing themselves for a clean and honourable death. A death which leads to eternal life.
                                   Hot sponsored by the alliance
Hezb Islami (HikmAtyar group) recently opened an information bureau in New York. The representative of Hezb claimed in a press conference that the bureau was sponsored by the AUiance of the Mujahideen.
The Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen has not yet decided about opening an office of the Alliance in New York. Therefore the Opening of Information Bureau is the work of Hezb alone and only represents that organization.
flFGWW M£H6 VOL. Ill, NO.1, 1/1/1961 PflGE 0
EUROPEAN COUNCIL STATEMENT
 The following statement was issued following the European council meeting, under the European Presidency of Britain, on Saturday, 6 December 1986:-
 AFGHANISTAN
       - As the seventh year of Soviet occupation comes to a dose, the European Council again draws attention to the very serious situation facing the people of Afghanistan and neighboring countries.
       - Over 110,000 Soviet troops remain in Afghanistan to prosecute a bitter and repressive war. Their presence violates international peace and security and endangers the stability of the region. Five million Afghans have been forced to flee their country. The Afghan people are still denied their freedom and independence. Large scale violations of human rights in Afghanistan continue to engender massive suffering.
       -The European Council supports the United Nations Secretary General's search for a political settlement based on principles overwhelmingly endorsed by the international community. The Council again calls on the Soviet Union to agree to a rapid and complete withdrawal of its forces.
                                        RABBANI VISITS IRAN
 Prof. BJRabbani. leader of Jami at Isiami Afghanistan left Peshawar on December 26 on an official visit of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
 During the visit he will meet the foreign minister of Iran and other high ranking officials of that country. Problems of mutual interest and the later developments in the war in Afghanistan will be discussed.
 Prof. Rabbani will also have an opportunity to meet the Refugees and Mujahideen from the Western parts of Afghanistan. There are more than 1.? million Afghan Refugees in Iran. It is also possible Rabbani will have meetings with the heads of the political parties from the central parts of Afghanistan who have offices in Iran.
 Iran supports the resistance of the Afghan people against the Soviet invaders and believes that participation of Mujahideen in any effort for the solution of Afghan issue is necessary without which no solution can be found.

AFGHANn 3WS
| IN THE NAME OF ALMICHTT ALLAH |
                        A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                        VOL. IIL NO. 2,15/1/1967.
SOVIETS NOT HONEST
 Najib's reconciliation program and unilateral ceasefire has generated some optimism about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Soviets are giving the , impression that they may withdraw their forces from Afghanistan in the near future.. Some of the Pakistani opposition parties are putting pressure on the Pakistan Government to respond in a positive way and make use of this golden (I) opportunity to . get rid of the Afghan issue.
 The question is. Are the Soviets honest in finding a political solution for the problem of Afghanistan; if so, what are the indications'of their change in policy? A close study of the Soviets leader s and their puppets' statements shows that, they have not offered something new . The old words are presented in a new package . They want the authority of the puppets and existance of Soviet influence in Afghanistan
 If one look closely at the history of Russia-Afghan conflict, clearly sees that the people of Afghanistan has rejected communist regime and foreign domination. Under the so called reconciliation program dictated by the Soviets the regime remains and Soviets domination is legalised.
 The Soviets knew very well that. Mujahideen would not accept anything less than total freedom for Afghanistan. By offering a ceasefire and formation of a broad-based government under the control of the communists they wanted to adopt a peaceful outlook and give the impression that Mujahideen are responsible for the continuation of the war.
 The time they have chosen for this propaganda compaign is of vital importance to the Soviet leadership. It is just before the Islamic summit in Kuwait. The compaign is directed to minimize the pressure on the Soviets in that conference. Mujahideen had decided to raise the question of the recognition of the resistance by OIC. This is not very pleasant for the Soviets. They want to do every thing to prevent Mujahideen from gaining such a victory. Geneva talks will be opened on Feb. 11th. Soviets wanted to send their puppets to attend the talks with a new propaganda tool. The real intention of Soviets will surface when the time table for the withdrawal of their forces will be discussed. From the situation inside the country, it seems that they can not agree on total withdrawal in a reasonable time period.
 Putting pressure on the Pakistan government from within is another purpose of the present propaganda offensive. Some leftest opposition groups and their papers are trying to say that everything in Afghanistan has become normal and Refugees can return.
 It was not surprising that Mujahideen leaders rejected the so-called reconciliation program and ceasefire and called it a ploy. However the way they did it at the beginning was not a proper one.They spoke individually, not through the current spokesman of the Alliance.Individual stands can create differences and that is what the Soviets are waiting for to exploit.
 It should be emphasized that the Mujahideen are eager to see the end of conflict in Afghanistan. Nobody on the face of the earth can pretend to desire for peace more than the people of Afghanistan themselves. But peace only returns when the cause of
rtFBHOH NEWS VOL.Ill, HO.2, 15/1/ 190? PBGE 2
 the conflict is not there. The cause of the conflict tos the imposition of a puppet regime through military intervention by the Soviets, If Soviets still insist on imposition of that regime which the people of Afghanistan have rejected it means that they do not want to solve the problem but to deceive the world public opinion through political maneuver.
 The Soviets are playing a clever game. They know if Mujahideen accept what they give them, it would lead to their total destruction; and if they do not accept they can be branded as war-mongers. It is not surprising to see when Wali Khan returns from Mongolia via Moscow and Kabul declares that if the resistance does not accept the puppets ceasefire they are war-mongers.
 It is also possible that KHAD will give direction to some of its "sleepers" in the small resistance groups to make use of the "reconciliation program" to join the regime. One « of their agents in Herat, named Sayed Ahmad went over to the puppet government after the announcement of ceasefire by the regime.
 The resistance should strengthen its unity to cope with the new situation This is only * possible if the resistance leaders meet regularly, agree on a political program and speak through their elected spokesman To be able to confront the enemy political offensives, the resistance should.offer alternatives in which the withdrawal of Soviet troops, the right of the people of Afghanistan for self determination and the restoration of the non-aligned and Islamic status of Afghanistan be included. The resolutions passed by OIC and UN general assembly are the ones which the resistance can insist upon -
 Mujahideen are alerted. While they have a finger on the triggers of their guns to foil any enemy ploy, they honestly emit for the Soviets to admit their mistakes of invading a peaceful neighboring country and continuation of a cruel colonial war against the people of Afghanistan for seven long years and take steps to correct these mistakes. If the colonial wishes of the Soviets and their desire for the eipantion of their empire at the expense of freedom of other nations is put a side; we do not have any other issue with the Soviets. The key to the solution of Afghanistan problem lies with the Soviet leaders While we totally reject the present compaigns launched by them and their puppets as propaganda offensive with no real intention to solve the problem, we welcome any honest step taken by the Soviets to end the occupation of Afghanistan and result in total freedom of the people of that country to choose their own destiny free from outside interference of any kind. Total freedom or the-holy war is our way.
                                          IN SEARCH FOR REAL IDENTITY
 A large number of school and university girls in Turkey have started to wear Islamic clothes and cover their heads.
 The president of Turkey showed concern about this development and called a sign of Islamic fundamentalism.
 The fact is that the people Turkey are mu slims and they have played an important role in the history of Islam. They have natural Lies with the Islamic culture and the whole Muslim world. Imposition of secular system and foreign culture througH harsh measures have not been able to cut this nation from its glorious past.
 In the past several years it has been observed that the Turkish young generation (both men and women) have turned towards true Islam. The try to apply Islamic sharia in their private and public life.
 It is a pity to see that while the absolute majority of the Turkey population are Muslims still the state secular laws forbid them from wearing Islamic clothes.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL.11 I, MO.2, 15/1/ 190? PAGE 3
We hope the leaders of Turkey will give freedom for its people to wear the type of clothes which they think suits their beliefs. We fully admire the bravery of our Turkish sisters who have decided to wear decent Islamic clothes and wish them every success in their just and peaceful struggle.
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                                IOGAR PROVINCE
 26/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Barakibarak district attacked the administrative building of the Sayedabad district in Wardak province with heavy weapons. They were helped by a local group from NIFA. 107 mm. rocket shells destroyed several enemy posts , a medicine depot, and one truck. Casualties of the enemy were not immediately known and Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 Sayedabad district is located on the Kabul-Qandahar highway. Mujahideen from the two neighbouring provinces of Wardak and Logar are usually co-operating in the operations against the common enemy.
 26/12/1986. An enemy helicopter was hit with fire of the Mujahideen's AA machine guns and crushed in Padkhab. The body of the Helicopter was carried away by the enemy forces. The enemy retaliated by pounding the villages with ground-to-ground rockets as a result of which one man and one woman were martyred and a lot of houses destroyed.
 26/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy postions in Pul-i-Alam. the provincial capital of Logar province with heavy weapons. Mujahideen from other parties had also participated in the attack. The enemy suffered heavy casualties the number of which were not immediately known.
 27/12/19876. Mujahideen from Jami'at who were supported by a group from Hezb ( Khalls group) attacked the enemy positions in Barakibarak district with heavy weapons. The enemy's casualties were not immediately known.
 28/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Kulangar area ambushed an enemy convoy. More then 20 APCs and trucks were destroyed. The report does not give any more details.
 Ail the above operations were planned for the seventh anniversery of the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Logar is situated south of Kabul and the resistance is well established there. Jami’at Islami Chief Commander in Logar is Doctor Fazlullah.
AFGHAN HEMS UCL.II I, HO.2, 15/1/ 190? PAGE 4
                                           NANGERHAR PROVINCE
10/12/1986. A large Soviet-Puppet force entered Achin district. At 4:00 pm. of 11/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy forces. Fighting continued until 8:00 am. the next day. One tank was hit with RPG but the enemy casualties were not immediately known. Enemy helicopters heavily bombed the suspected positions of the the Mujahideen as a result of which 10 civilians including 6 children and one 3 women were martyred. A large number of houses were destroyed. Two Mujahideen were wounded during the operation.
Achin a district on the Pakistan border.
28/'12/86. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked communist position with 107 mm rocket in Shinwar area The casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
28/12/1986. Mujahideen from all the parties including Jami'at launched an attack on the communist forces in Goshta district, with 107 mm rocket, mortars and recoilless rifles. Fighting started at 4 mm and continued until 11 pm. Enemy positions were hit precisely. The puppets plan to celebrate 7th anniversary invasion was spoiled by the attack.
                   Enemy casualties were not immediately known and Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                             QANDAHAR PROVINCE
    28/12/1986. Mujahideen attacked enemy base in Sofi north of Qandahar city, with ground to ground 107 mm rockets. Tow enemy heavy launchers (Possibly BM-21) and one artillery piece were destroyed, 2 enemy soldiers killed or wounded. Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
    31/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at under the commaned of Mullah Naqib attacked enemy positions in Arghandab district as a result of which an ammunition depot was hit and set on fire, one artillery piece destroyed, and 8 puppet troops killed. One Mujahid, by the name of Noor Ali. was martyred during the operation.
                              FARTAB PROVINCE
                                                      P
    8/12/1986. Mujahideen from jami'at in co-operation with other parties ambushed an enemy convoy in Sheerin Tagab district as a result of which one APC was destroyed and 20 soldiers killed. No figures are given for the Mujahideen casualties.
    10/12/1986. Enemy tried to re-supply its post in Almar sub-district Mujahideen ambushed the enemy convoy destroying two APCs and two trucks either with RPG fire or landmines. About 11 enemy soldiers were killed and some others wounded. Mujahideen seized 5 Ak-47. The enemy tried to reach Almar by another route but faced the tough resistance of the Mujahideen. 5 APCs and two trucks were destroyed either by landmine or RPG fire from the Mujahideen. 6 puppet troops were captured with their guns. The enemy bombed the area heavily. In all the clashes 17 Mujahideen were martyred and some others wounded. Fighting around the post still continues.
                               HERAT PROVINCE
    A report from Herat says that in addition to thousands of puppet troops more than four thousand Russian troops including 2000 commandos along with 600 tanks and APCs have participated in the siege of Western part of Herat
    Since December 24th Mujahideen are engaged in a severe fight against the enemy
    forces.
flFDHRN NEWS VOL. 11 I, HO.2, 15/1/ 196? PflOE 5
On 24 December about 55 enemy soldiers were killed or injured; 30 Ak-47s captured and 8 trucks and APCs destroyed. 3 Mujahideen were martyred and 14 others injured.
On December 28 during an operation Mujahideen were able to kill or vound about 150 enemy soldiers including some Russians. 11 enemy soldiers were captured. Mujahideen seized 20 AK-47s and set on fire a communications jeep. Taro Mujahideen were martyred and 13 others wounded.
                                                QUNDUZ PROVINCE
A late report from Qunduz says that, heavy fighting has continued in Imam Sahib district up to December 21st Enemy ground and air forces attacked the villages as a result of which a large number of people were killed or wounded and a lot of villages , destroyed. Civilian dead reached hundreds. Footd stuffs were destroyed and cattle killed. Search and destroy opperations with the help of about one hundred helicopters are still continuing. Mujahideen are resisting the enemy forces. Two helicopters were shot down Four A P Cs destroyed and a large number of Soviet and puppet troops killed. .
Soviet planes which bombed the area flew from their bases inside the Soviet Union. The local population who lost all their belongings were suffering shortages of food, clothes and medicine.
According to the report the enemy has established some new posts in the city of Imam Sahib. The report is signed by several commanders and administrators of jami'at-e-Islami Afghanistan.
                                     EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS
Around the beginning of last summer (June-July) the puppet regime sent a delegation to Commander Farid from Hezb Islami ( Hikmatyar group) in Kohistan district of Kapisa province. The delegation's purpose was to discuss regime's plan for the so-called reconciliation campaign. The delegation was composed of some elders of Kohistan connected to the regime’s Fatherland Front. Commander Farid imprisoned the delegation and asked for the release of Mujahideen imprisoned in the puppets jails in return for their release.
After long discussions which continued for several months ( it is not know how these talks were carried out) finally about two months ago nine Mujahideen were exchanged with eight members of the puppet delegation.
                            INTERVIEW WITH AN INTERNAL REFUGEE
( RECENTLY A RELIEF ORGANIZATION CARRIED A SURVEY ABOUT LIVING CONDITIONS OF INTERNAL RFUGEES. SEVERAL SUCH PEOPLE WERE INTERVIEWED INSIDE AFGHANISTAN. WE HAVE SELECTED ONE INTERVIEW TO INFORM AFGHAN NEWS READERS ABOUT INTERNAL REFUGEE SITUATION)
0 What is your name?
A. My name is Mohammad Aman Q. What is the name of this place?
A Parandeh (A side valley of Bazarak about 35 Km. inside the Panjshir valley).
0. How many children do you have?
flFDHftN NEWS VOL III, HO. 2, 15/1 / 190? PflGE 5
4-
 A, Six.
 Q Where is your home village?
 A. Nawaleej (one of the villages of Bazarak located in the main Panjshir valley). Q Where does your family live now?
 A. AtParandeh 0 Where in Parandeh?
 A There, little bit up there in a cave.
 0 Bov many families do live there?
 A. 20 to 25.
      In terms of human-rights abuses, there is nothing in the world
      comparable to the war in
      Afghanistan.
                        Felix Ermacora
 0. It seems that it is impossible to live in the winter in that place thet you live now. Isn’t there a lot of snow? Do you stay there in the winter?
 A We don't go any where. You see that cave. We stay there.during winter.
 0 It looks that in four to five months you can not find any food here.
 A. We prepare everything before.
 0. Wherefrom?
 A. From Salang and Andarab.
 0 How do you bring them?
 A. 1 have two poor donkeys and two poor sons who help me bringing food from there.
 0. How long does it take?
 A. Two days or two and half.
 0. Have you always sent your donkeys?
 A. When we did not have donkeys, we were using our shoulders...but thank God, A’mer sahib (commander Masood) helped me to buy two donkeys.., some time I give my donkeys on rent to Jami'at which becomes a good source of money for my family and some other times my sons bring food on them for ourselves.
flFEWW HEMS WOL. Ill, HO. 2, 15/1/ 190? PflGE ?
0. Which pass is the higher on your way to Salang? A. Navaljee Kushta,
 0. Being an old man how you drive these donkeys?
 A. My sons help me.
 Q, How old are they?
 A. Ten to twelve years.                                                        «
 Q. How much you charge per Ser (7Kgs.) from Salang to Parandeh?
 A 400 Afs.( 120 Afs. is one American Dollar).
 Q How many Sers do you load on a donkey?
 A. Eight to nine Sers.
 Q. How much is the fare from Andarab to Parandeh per Ser?
 A. 270 Afs.
 Q. Is it enough?
 A. No, when this money is finished, Jami’at helps us.
 0. How does jami'ai help you?
 A. Simply, we go to local commander, telling him that our food is finished and he helps
 us.
 Q. What are the conditions?
                                                      e
 A. When we have nothing, they help.
 0 How much did Jami at help you?
 A. They give me 20,000 to 21,000 Afs. in three-four times.
 Q. Tell us the story how you were displaced? Please.
 A. This is a long story. When we left, we stayed one night in Safaidcheer ( A village in the upper part of Panjshir Valley) another in Khawak( the famous pass which connects the North to the South through an old caravan route). From there to Andarab and then to Khost. A week after Russians attacked from there we went to Yerm ( a valley between Andarab and Nehrin Districts in Beghlan pronvince). There we some times we found food and other times did not. From there, passing mountain after mountain, we went back to Khost.We saw no one there, all the houses were destroyed.
 Q. Where did you get your food from ?
 A. Some times people were helping and other times we were buying ourselves. We returned from Khost to Andarab. That was the time when Juma Khan (a known milUig commander who was killed later by Mujahideen) attacked. Suddenly the Russians landed their commando troops there. We left our animals and whatever else we had and escaped to the mountains. We went to Parandeh. No one and nothing was there but fortunately some goats were around. We killed one of them and used it. We thought we would give its price to its owner in the future. Then Mujahideen came and gave us
flFGHPH NEU6 UCL.III, N0.2, 15/1/ 1997 PflGE 9
                                                                     % .
something. We vent down to the Tillage. The cursed Russians had destroyed every thing. I went to Salang to bring some thing. Since I did not know anyone in Salang, I came back empty handed. Fortunately on the way back I met A’mer sahib (commander Masood) who was on his way to Salang. I told him that I had nothing. He gave me 7000 Afs. I went back to Salang and brought rice, wheat and cooking oil. I carried some on my back for the rest rented a donkey to transport it for me
Q. What about your goats and sheep which you left in Andarab?
A. Oh, some were killed by Russians and some by wolves, just two goats remained., my poor donkeys they were killed too by the Russians.
                            WHO SHOULD SPEAK FOR AFGHANISTAN
THE FOLLOWING ARTICLE WAS PUBLISHED IN THE NEW YORK TIMES ON 19 NOVEMBER, 1986:
A bizarre fracas occured at the United Nations when leaders of the Afghanistan resistance came to speak at a recent correspondent’s lunch. They were attacked and pummeled by ' diplomats' representing the Kabul regime, which owes its survival to the presence of 120,000 Soviet troops. The episode raises and interesting question. By what right does Kabul speak for Afghanistan in the General Assembly in the first place?
There is a powerful case in logic, justice and precedent for seating the Afghan resistance. Consider the parallel with another invaded country, Cambodia. For a decade the General Assembly has rejected the claims of the regime implanted by the Vietnamese and instead has rcognized a resistance coalition whose incongruous partners include the neutralist former chief of state. Prince Sihanouk, and mass-murdering Khemer Rouge.
flFBHAH NEW© VOL.III, HO.2, 15/1/ 1967 PflGE 9
 The Afghan resistance speaks for more people and controls more Afghan territory than the Kabul regime. Since the Soviet invasion in December 1979, Afghans have voted with their feet against Kabul; a fourth of the country's 16 million inhabitants are now refugees in Pakistan and Iran Although Kabul controls the cities, the insurgents rule most of the countryside. And no less important, despite lopsided U.N. condemning the invasion, the Soviet Union still refuses to fix a reasonable timetable on withdrawing its troops.
 The astrocious human rights record of the Soviet occupiers and their Afghan proxies should also weigh heavily. A devastating report by the human rights commission is being debated this week by the General Assembly. The report documents indiscriminate bombing, torture of prisoners, use of booby-trapped toys to maim children and denial of social and economic rights. It also offers this relevant judgment on the resistance: “It would seem that these opposition movements command the « support of the vast majority of the population".
 Commendably. the U.N. is no longer ingloriously mute concerning human rights outrages by communist regimes. An appropriate way to hold Kabul accountable for its' crimes is to award Afghanistan's U.N. seat to the legitimate resistance claimants. The prospect of a vote on that may powerfully concentrate Soviet attention on ending a barbarous occupation.
 NOTE: AFGHAN NEWS FULLY AGRBES WITH THB CONTENTS OF THE ABOVE ARTICLE.
                                        SOVIET INVASION CONDEMNED
 27 December marked the 7th year of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Afghan Refugees all over the world eipress their disapproval of the invasion by holding demonstrations, meetings and other activities. This year Afghans demonstrated in several world capitals including Islamabad and Delhi.
 Afghan political parties also convened protest meetings in Peshawar Refugees camps. In all the meetings, the participitants denounced the invasion of a peaceful Islamic country and the subsequent killing of its people by Soviets. They expressed their determination to continue their struggle till total freedom of Afghanistan and establishment of and Islamic Republic is achieved.
                                                      •
 Jami'at convened a large meeting on the occasion in Peshawar. The participitants passed resolution in which they asked:
    1- The immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces from
    Afghanistan
    2- continuation and even intensification of armed struggle against the Soviet
    invaders
    3- Recognition of the Afghan resistance by the U.N. NAM and 01C as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan.
    4- The need for more humanitarian assistance to the Refugees inside and outside the
    country.
    5- The need for a more effective unity amongst the resistance parties.
    6- The need for extensive work to inform world public about the true situation in Afghanistan and seek their support for the cause