Vol 7, No 11                                                June 1,1991
Khwaja Ghar is liberated
USSR
    The Mujahideen captured the enemy stronghold at Khwaja Ghar, Takhar Province, after four days of fighting which began on May 11. This was the second major victory of the Mujahideen after the liberation of Khost in March.
    Attack for the liberation of Khwaja Ghar was launched under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood and Mujahideen from all parties (except Hezb of Hikmatyar) took part in the operation. A combined force of 4500 Mujahideen launched the attack, 2500 of Whom belonged to Jami'at and the rest to other Mujahideen parties.
    The following senior commanders led the Mujahideen units in the battle:
    Commander Ahmad Shah Masood, Commander Amir (Prof. Sayyaf), Commander Gada (Jami'at ), Commander Panah (Jami'at ), Commander Najim (Jami'at ), Agha Gul (Jami'at ), Commander Qari Sediq (Jami'at), Commander Ahmadi (Jami'at), Commander Sayyed Yahya (Jami'at), Commander Qari Ammir (Prof.
Sayyaf ) and Engineer Omar (Harakat of Mohammadi).
    Khwaja Ghar is located about 20 kilometers from the Soviet border. It was turned into the provincial capital of Takhar after the Mujahideen liberated Taliqan in 1988. It was protected by Division 55 and units of militias, KHAD and police. The Mujahideen captured the following weapons from Khwaja Ghar:
    • Tank and armored cars: 60
    • Trucks 200
    • D-30 guns (120 mm ): 15
    • M-50 guns (120 mm): 4
    • BM-21 rocket launchers: 2
    • ZU-23 anti air guns (23 mm): 4
    • ZPU guns (14.5 mm): 30
    • Mortars (120 mm): 6
 Cmdr. Ahamad Shah Masood
                                                                                                             * f VHN6I QflLH
     /
     I
 IKAMflNQM
  ^DRSHT-l-QRLA
     • Mortars (82 mm): 30
     • AGS-17 grenade launchers: 20
     •      Several thousands rifles and machineguns
     •      Large quantities of different types of ammunition
     More than 1500 enemy troops defected to the Mujahideen during fighting and a large number were captured. No figures for the casualties of the enemy troops were available. Ten Mujahideen were killed and 60 wounded during the operation.
     After the fall of Khwaja Ghar, the Mujahideen captured some post of Ikhanom historic hill, qn the Soviet border and part of Dashti-i-Qala, about 15 kilometers north of Khwaja Ghar.
     Shah Mahmood, an important mili-
 tia figure, was among the prisoners. The Governor of Takhar and seven ranking military officers escaped to Soviet Union by helicopters before the fall of Khwaja Ghar.
     The Kabul regime fired four SCUD missiles at Khwaja Ghar on May 15, killing several Mujahideen and local population. Regime's jets continued to bomb the liberated district from a high altitude. So far, 40 people have died and 30 injured as a result of firing SCUDs and aerial bombardments.
     When the Mujahideen attacked Khwaja Ghar, diversionary attacks against the Kabul troops were launched in Kunduz, Baghlan and Mazar.
              The attack on Khwaja Ghar was launched immediately after the end of the sixth meeting of the Supervisory Council ( SC). In this meeting military and political situation of the country was discussed by the SC commanders. Sources close to Supervisory Council say that the Mujahideen attack on Khwaja Ghar was delayed at least one month due to problems created by Commander Bashir of Hezb Islami           (Hikmatyar).
 Originally, the attack was planned to coincide with operation oh Khost
     The victory at Khwaja Ghar pushed the SC out of an undesirable situation imposed on it by shortages of supplies and problems arising from massacre of Jami'at commanders in Farkhar in 1989.
     The news of victory at Khwaja Ghar pleased the Mujahideen and refugees because it was done with few casualties and with participation of most of the Mujahideen parties.
     Prof. Rabbani, congratulating the victorious Mujahideen, said that victory at Khwaja Ghar demonstrated that the fall of Khost was not an isolated incident.
 «
 Page (8)
AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page
rr
Battlefields
 Kunduz Province
    •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Arif Khan killed eight regime soldiers and captured eight others in Gorgozer and Navian, six kilometers southeast of Kunduz city on May 1, MIDIA reported. They also destroyed one tank and one truck and seized 16 Kalashnikov rifles. Six villagers were killed, five Mujahideen were injured and a number of houses were destroyed by the Kabul regime's aerial and artillery bombardments.
    •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed ten soldiers and one officer, wounded 20 soldiers and captured 16 when they attacked regime security posts close to Kunduz city on May 17, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    They seized one tank, one ZPU machinegun, 23 rifles, one DShK ma-chinegun, one mortar, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, 1400 rounds of heavy weapons ammunition and 86 boxes of light' weapons ammunition. One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
 Balkh Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami have recently stepped up their operations against the Kabul regime in different parts of the Balkh Province. Here are the accounts of some of then-recent operations:
    •      The Mujahideen attacked Mazar airport's security posts and 20th Division headquarters, killing two officers and wounding several soldiers on May 10. Two officers. Captain Latif and Lieutenant Asif were captured along with five soldiers. They seized two RPG rocket launchers, 12 Kalashnikov rifles, one pistol, two R-105 radio sets and some ammunition.
    •      The Mujahideen attacked regime posts in Shahrak area, about seven kilometer northwest of Mazar, capturing 28 Kalashnikov rifles.
    •      The Mujahideen attacked regime posts in Langar Khana, five ki-
 lometers south of Mazar, on April 29 and 30, seizing 54 Kalashnikov rifles, four RPG rocket launchers, three ma-chineguns, one mortar, one 76 mm howitzer and two radio sets. They captured 46 regime's soldiers.
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at who were assisted by the Mujahideen of Hezb, Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat Inqilab attacked the enemy posts in Cheshma-i-Shefa, 10 kilometers inside the Shulgar valley on May 13 capturing several posts. The enemy casualties is reported to be high, but no figures are given. Twenty Mujahideen were killed and 22 were injured by mines planted by the communists. The Kabul regime retaliated by aerial bombing of the liberated areas killing many civilians, including 12 people of a single family.
     Soviets had established the base in Cheslima-i-Shefa to restrict Mujahideen's movement from then-mountainous bases to the flat areas. These posts provided security for the Fertilizer Factory of Mazar, located at the mouth of the valley.
     Commander Ata Mohammad, the Deputy Chief Commander of Jami'at Mujahideen in Mazar, told AFGHANews that joint operation became possible after Jami'at solved its differences with local Hezb and Harakat. Jami’at is a dominating force in Mazar and was leading operations in Cheshma-i-Shefa. This attack coincided with operation in Khwaja Ghar.
     •     The Mujahideen captured 60 soldiers and seized 100 Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU (14.5 mm) machinegun, one mortar, one PK machinegun and some ammunition when they attacked the regime forces stationed in Arghoun village, three kilometers from Balkh District, on May 14. The village was liberated. Earlier the Mujahideen of Harakat, Hezb and Hezb-i-Wahdat liberated Chimtal District
I
 Badghis Province
     • Ten armed militiamen defected
to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna sub-District on May 17.
    •      Gul Agha, a militia commander, and his 30 men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw on May 19, bringing 35 Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG-7 rocket launcher and one R-105 radio set
    On the same day, a militia group of 20 men, under the command of Nooruddin, joined Commander Abdul Aziz of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw, bringing with them 25 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machinegun.
Herat Province
    •      The Kabul regime suffered heavy casualties when it launched an offensive in Zindajan District, west of the city of Herat, on May 4.
    Ground attack preceded by heavy aerial and artillery bombardments of Zindajan, Goryan and other liberated areas, west of the city. The Kabul regime had brought militia forces from the neighboring provinces to fight in Herat.
    According to Ismail Khan, Mujahideen Chief Commander in Herat, in three weeks of fighting, regime lost 1100 men while 500 of its soldiers were injured. The Mujahideen destroyed more than 70 tanks, armored cars and trades and shot down two jets and two helicopters. The losses of the regime in Rabat Pay and Qala-i-Raig areas ware very high.
    Meanwhile, the Mujahideen attacked Herat airport, the headquarters of Herat Division, and regime military units in Adraskan District and cut Herat-Torghundi and Herat-Kandahar roads.
    Tens of dvilian population am Mujahideen were either killed or wounded. The enemy destroyed a Mujahideen hospital and communication center in Zindajan.
    Aerial bombardments destroying many houses and killing hundreds o animals. The Kabul regime cut the irrigation channel of the district, creating water shortage for the farms and animals. UN office in Zindajan was also bombed by the regime air force.
    Communist forces were led by General Abdur Rauf BaigL Regime claimed that the attack was launches "at the request of local population" am "in line with its national reconciliation policy"! It also claimed achieving a major victory against the Mujahideen.
    Mujahideen reported that about
50,000  people of Zindajan were forcet to take refuge in Ghoryan. They lack enough food and medicine.
    The Mujahideen think that regime
                                                           Page (4 )
AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page ©
Wisdom of*
the sages
Pity for poor ruins wise man's comfort
     There was famine in Damascus: so bad that friends forgot even their closest friendships. The heavens became so miserly that not one drop of water moistened the field-edge or palm jrove. Springs that had gushed for years, suddenly dried up; only the orphan's tears still flowed; only the widow’s sighs still rose like smoke from the hovel’s chimney. The trees shivered leafless and naked as a dying beggar; even the strongest wrestlers lay listless and exhausted. Not a blade of grass remained in the mountains, and in the orchards every green twig had been devoured by locusts; men had been reduced to eating the locusts.
     It was then that I ran across an old friend, a wealthy man possessing flocks and land and gold, in short a man of standing: there was nothing left of him but skin and bone.
     "My dear good friend!" I exclaimed, "what ever happened to you? Tell me!"
     "Use your wits, if you haven't lost them!" he growled at me. "When the answer is so obvious, it is stupid to ask. Can you not see how hardship and suf-
 fering have gone beyond all limits? No rain falls from heaven! The prayers of suffering humanity fail to rise: heaven hears them not!"
     I answered him: "But you have nothing to fear; poison kills only where there is no antidote. Why should the duck fear water? You have enough, so why fear if others die of want?”
     My wise friend looked at me in dismay, as if I were an utter fool. "My dear fellow," he. said, "when a man's friends are drowning, can he stay comfortably on the shore? It is not poverty that makes me thin and haggard, it is pity for the poor that makes me loose my appetite. Wounds and sores are never lovely, neither on your own nor on others' limbs: though I am in good health, the very sight of weeping sores makes me shudder. How can a healthy man enjoy himself next to a groaning invalid? If I see that my poor neighbor has not eaten, how can I eat? The food sticks like poison in my throat While your friends languish in prison, can you go and have a good time and picnic in an orchard? "
'Scars of war' wins many prizes
Mehrabuddin Mastan
   "Scars of War", a documen-
"Italia*
tary film about the effect of war on Afghans and Soviet soldiers, has won many prizes and been shown in several countries.
    Frederic Laffont and Christophe de Ponfilly edited "Scars of War" together with Channel 7 of the French TV.
    The film "Scats of War" has been already broadcasted in France, Switzerland,             Yugoslavia,
Czechoslovakia, Belgium and Canada. It was shown on May 11 by the channel 1 of the German TV and Will be shound in the near future by an Italian channel as well.
    This film was presented to numerous festivals in Europe and obtained many prizes like: "Aigle d' Or", the Grand Prize of Reuil-Malmaison Festival of Film of History in October of 1990 (France), "Special Prize Jean-Louis Calderon" Scoop and Journalism
 festival of Angers (France) and Prize in December of 1990.
 Scars of war was screened for many weeks at the "Forum of European Televisions", George Pompidou Center, Paris.
NHtl
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
    * Ija                  ^1 <£
    Fear the person who does not fear God.
    Meaning: Don't trust the man who doesn't trust in God.
    May Kabul be without gold rather than without snow.
    Meaning: Snow on the mountains around Kabul is more valuable to agriculture and life than gold.
                                                                                                                          A*** J*
    Those bitten by a snake fear even a rope.
    Meaning: Once bitten, twice shy.
    The burnt child dreads the fire.
    When the hands breaks it goes to the neck.
    Meaning: Though a tree grow ever so high, its falling leaves return to the root.
    Blood is thicker than kwater.
 mealthanl -              -
 .learned
 hands              oMHfiij
 from earning oi *r ,V:
 AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page
 Another major victory!
     The Liberation of Khawja Ghar, one month after the fall of Khost, was a major victory for the Mujahideen. It was also the first major victory of the Supervisory Council (SC), head by Ahmad Shah Masood, after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan in 1989.
     SC has been planning large scale operations against the Kabul regime sines a long time, but shortages of supplies and problems created by a rival Mujahideen party postponed launching of a major offensive.
     Afghans, as well as the foreign supporters of Jehad, wanted to know why the SC did not gain any major military victory following the withdrawal of Soviet troops. The fall of Khawja Ghar, in an extremely efficient operation, has answered some of the questions.
     Khawja Ghar is located close to the Soviet border and militias defending it belonged to SAZA and SAFZA communist factions. They had established direct link with the Soviet government and were being supplied directly from across the Amuriver.
     Soviet Union wanted to create a security belt along the border by hiring local groups loyal to Moscow. The two factions of SAZA and SAFZA had volunteered for the job in return for Soviets' political, military and financial favors.The fall of Khawja Ghar was a severe blow to two local communist factions collaborating with the Soviet Union,
     The fall of Khawja Ghar has isolated the regime garrisons in Badakhshan and Kunduz and has further secured the liberated areas in the north, particularly the city ofTaliqan.
     The operation at Khawja Ghar displayed the capabilities of Commander Masood in planning and executing major offensives. This was the first time that he successfully led 4500 men in an operation involving several Mujahideen parties. Casualties of the Mujahideen were extremely low and operation time was limited to only four days. Military operations by the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan did not allow the Kabul regime to respond effectively against the Mujahideen during fighting in Khawja Ghar.
     More important than all, the operation was a joint venture in which six Mujahideen parties participated. This was a significant development with positive implication on the future operations against the communist regime. Masood has been busy working towards a political understanding among the Mujahideen in the area to pave the way for joint operations. This is the first time that his efforts have given positive results.
     As it was expected , the prisoners of war were treated properly, the captured arms and ammunition were not wasted and a joint civil administration was created in the liberated district. These steps will encourage the regime troops to give up fighting when they are attacked by organized forces of the Mujahideen in the future.
     So far, the Kabul regime has not admitted the fall of Khawja Ghar because of its negative implication on the morale of its troops. Moreover, the Kabul regime could not have accused Pakistan army of "direct involvement" in an area so close to the Soviet border. The Najib regime limited its reaction to firing of SCUD missiles and areal bombing of the liberated district. Though these attacks caused some casualties, they will have no military significance. They are launched to terrorize people.
     The fall of Khawja Ghar was not fully reflected in the world Media. The operation lasted only for a few days and fighting theater was unaccessible by the foreign journalist due to closure of mountain passes. Moreover, the recent diplomatic activities, launched by Pakistan and the UN for finding a political solution
 H
Page(8)
 War news
                                                     From page (2)
 launched the offensive because of increased Mujahideen operations on Herat-Torghundi road and blockade of Herat-Kandahar road.
  . All the Mujahideen groups present in Herat took part in fighting against the invading enemy and their unity caused the Kabul regime to pay a high price for its invasion. Fighting in Zindajan still continued when this report was filed on May 27.
    •      The Mujahideen of Jami’at killed 13 militiamen and set on fire 13 trucks loaded with ammunition in Khoosh Rabat, Gulran District, on Herat-Torghundi road on May 22.
    •     The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and seized three Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-. gun and one R-105 radio set in an ambush on Herat-Torghundi road on May 23.
 Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed or wounded 80 enemy troops and captured three when they attacked the regime military installations in Maimana and security posts around it on May 17. The Mujahideen captured 50 Kalashnikov rifles and one PK machin-egun. Seven Mujahideen were killed and 15 were injured. Regime's artillery and air force pounded the liberated areas around Maimana causing heavy losses among noncombatants.
 Baghlan Province
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 100 militiamen, killed 30 and wounded 25 when they attacked them in the center of Baghlan Province on May 20, Commander Haqjo reported.
    The Mujahideen liberated the villages of Chacha-o-Salangi, Tajik Ha, Quchi, Talooka and Cheragh anc seized 300 Kalashnikov rifles, 50 ma-chineguns and some ammunition. Three Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded in the operation.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked Koroo and Khwaja Zaid posts of Kayan militias in Doshi District, killing 30 militiamen.
    Commander Haqjo reported that his Mujahideen's attack was in accordance with the decision of the sixth meeting of Supervisory Cbuncil hek some time ago in Taliqan.
    •      Twenty two armed soldiers of the Kabul regime defected to the Mujahideen of Jami’at in Hasantal of Baghlan on May 23, Commander Haqjo reported. The soldiers set on fire a regime tank before changing side.
AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page @
SC commanders meet to review war strategy
  The sixth meeting of the tion in the country.
Supervisory Council (SC) end- • Establishment of the Council of
ed on May 2 in Taliqan, the Commanders was a positive step to-provincial capital of Takhar, wards unity and coordination of mili-after deciding on a number of tai7 operations. The resolution asks all important military and politi- die Mujahideen commanders to join
 cal issues.
     In the meeting which lasted for six days, delegates from 13 northeast provinces, including Kabul, Laghman and Bamyan took part
     The meeting passed a resolution, the main points of which are:
     •      Armed struggle for the replacement of the Kabul regime will continue. Peaceful means leading to the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan will not be rejected.
       The Council will strive for territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. It believes that establishment of an Islamic system will preserve the right of all Afghans belonging to different ethnic groups and religious sects.
     •      The Council will re-organize itself to create an administrative system capable of dealing with a current situa-
 the Council of Commanders.
     •      The Council calls for the implementation of Sharia and maintenance of law and order and protection of public properties in the liberated areas. It asks all the Mujahideen commanders to treat the prisoners of war properly
     •      The Council asks the educated Afghans, inside and outside the country, to help the reconstruction of. Afghanistan.
     •      The Council proposes holding of free elections as the proper way for solving problem between the components of the resistance.
     •      The Council renew its offer of amnesty to the regime's servicemen who join the Mujahideen.
     The fifth session of the Council, held in 1989, was followed by massacre of Jami'at commanders in Tang-i-Farkhar.
Ismail Khan rejects regime's claim of victory in Zindajan
    Commander Ismail Khan has rejected the Kabul regime's claim of capturing the Mujahideen base in Zindajan Distric of Herat.
    In a wireless message, the Mujahideen commander said he was surprised by the Kabul claim, reported by BBC, that it had forced the Mujahideen out of their base in Zindajan. "The Mujahideen are fighting the invading force inside Zindajan and the Kabul regime’s claims are false," he said.
    The Kabul regime had claimed that Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan had been forced to abandoned their base in Zindajan. BBC reported that the regime claim was confirmed by 'foreign relief agencies' - -UN and ICRC- - working in Herat Describing the fighting in Zindajan as very severe, Ismail Khan said that fifty jets, more than 1000 tanks and tens of thousands of regime troops were engaged in the attack which the Kabul regime had named "Desert Storm.”
    According the message, so far.
 50,000 people of Zindajan have become refugees to other areas, scores of Mujahideen and ordinary people have been killed and a large number of houses have been destroyed.
    The Mujahideen have inflicted heavy losses on the enemy by killing 1100 regime soldiers, wounding 500, destroying 75 tanks and trucks and shootig down two jets and two helicopters, the message added.
    Ismail Khan has asked for humanitarian assistance to the displaced people. He has called on the Mujahideen in other parts of Herat to intensify their operations against the regime and has asked young Mujahideen to return to the battlefields.
    He has asked the international news agencies, especially BBC, to send their reporters to Zindajan so that they can report the truth and avoid spreading the false claims of the Kabul regime.
    Landslide kills 80
      Landslide killed 80 people and 1000 cattle and rendered 500 families homeless in Gandum Qul village of Keshm District on April 20. —     —_ — ———✓
   IBrilishfmembe#' of parliament, Roy Hauersley, has lauded the spirit and determination of the Mujahideen to liberate their counfry. He was talk-ing-            Ajfghautt' ipef^ge^:
 near Peshawar. . .               ft
                                                                 •••
      The Mujahideen of Ningarhar Province have closed a trade route between Torkham and Sorobi due' to lack, of security. Through this route, goods were brought from Kabul to the tribal area in Pakistan. This deci |iton was. mad|-in a meeting Of conf jmandets representing aU the seven Mujahideen parties.
 :;-f|This road became operational Torkham-J^kjabad road* was closed, Match , 1989 after the :^ahjd<^|;c^turld Torkham border post        '     /'MIT
      Inflation rate in Afghanistan, during the fiscal year of 1990, was 62 !vbudget of 1990 was 231 million dollars, 60 percent of which was allocated for miUtaryiexpenditure^ ;;An average' Afghan earns li&ut $3 per month.
      The Kabul regime bas fixed the price of a two-way air ticket to Mecca lor pilgrims (Hajis) one million Afghani (SI,250 ). The amount Is equal to 13 years' salary of. an 5$! erage government officer in Kabul.
      “A Soviet ranking officer has said jjijjat 200 Soviet advisors iwere killed !duringp{: ||Ke»r ofecupaupri' , of Afghanistan; ••••             §
                                                                                                                    official statistics say
 that only 14,000 Soviet servicemen were killed in Afghanistan, but this figure is disputed by Afghan resis tance and some Soviet veterans. They think the losses are much higher.
                                                                                                    '’||f The Soviet official disclosed that 130 Soviet advisors were, lulled in .Angola andEthiojria.il. • ’’ ^ '«p
 14          '<•••            ”    w
      SulUin Ali Keshtmand has been replaced by Abdul Wahid Saxabi as the vice- president of the Kabul regime. Kabul Radio reported.
      The report did not give any rca Son for ii|changiand:;^v|'bo information about Keshtmand's new posting. Keshtmand is one of the senior pohtburo members pf the PDPA’s .Pareharo faction, ’ ' ; i > •
w
 AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page <s)
Farah Province sitrep
  Abu Panah
     I and a colleague of mine left ’eshawar on January 10, 1991 or Farah Province to survey the tumanitarian projects run by a Peshawar-based relief organization. We decided to go to Rabat a point where Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan borders meet) and then pass through Iran to Farah. There is a market in Rabat which controlled by Hezb Islami Hikmatyar). The commander of Hezb Islami in Rabat, Sufi Latif, is from Herat. Food, blanket and fuel oil are nought from Iran to Rabat These goods are taken by private merchants Helmand, Nimroz and Farah Province where they are sold in the liberated and government-controlled are-Trade of gasoline is a profitable business. Government bases buy their needed oil from this market through middlemen. Sale of weapons and ammunition is free in Rabat.
     Sufi Latif introduced us to another Mujahideen commander, Maulawi Yahya, who promised to help us to pass through Iran. Maulawi Yahya was originally a commander of Hezb Islami i Hikmatyar). He has established a close link with Iranians who provide him with assistance in return for his services to fight against the drug dealers along the border. He took us to Zahidan, Iran, and arranged to get a letter from Iranian authorities allowing us to go to Shamsabad refugee camp in Khurasan Province bordering Fahah.
       We remained in this refugee camp for one week. Refugees -in the camp lived in dome-shaped mud houses which have been built by themselves on the style of their houses in Afghanistan. There is a market of about 500 shops in the camp, run by the refugee. The camp seemed well organized. Water is brought by tankers and health clinics are run by Iranian Red Crescent Society. Iranians paid attention to the health of the refugees. The camp was regularly spread from air. Afghans have been trained to run the clinics. There are schools in the camp, some run by Iranians but the majority by the Mujahideen organizations. Jami'at was very active in this field.
       Refugees buy their food at subsidized prices. Refugees are given par-mission by Iranian authorities to work in the towns to earn their living. Each commander is allowed to send 20 to 30 of his men for work at one time. When they return others are allowed to go. Refugees did not seem ready to return
 to Afghanistan before a settlement and return of peace to Afghanistan.
     From border, we entered Lash-Juwain District Our guide was from Harakat Inqilab. After driving for half an hour, we reached Harakat’s base. The district was free and its cento* was controlled by Jami'at Islami. Only five percent of the pre-war population of Lash Juwain live in the district the rest live as refugees in Iran. The district was badly hit by the late floods. Most of the gardens and farms were flooded and road link with other parts of the province was cut. Lash Juwain is a transit point from where food and fuel, brought from Iran, are taken to many areas in the neighboring provinces. I saw a health clinic run by the Mujahideen in Lash Juwain.
      We visited Qala Kah District which is controlled by the Mujahideen. Most of the people of this district live as refugees in Iran. Senator Sher Ahmad is Jami'at's commando* in Qala Kah.
     In the neighboring Anardarah District, where the regime has no presence, there was tension between the Mujahideen. belonging to Jami'at and Khalis. The problem had a tribal nature. Ulama and tribal elders had succeeded in restoing peace between them.
     Most of the people of Anardarah lived in the area. There was a big market ki Anardara where fuel oil, food, fertilizer and other goods were brought from Iran and sold to merchants from Shindand and other parts of Helmand. Wool and carpets were taken from Afghanistan to Iran. There were two clinics in Anardara.
     We visited Shindand District which is partially controlled by the Kabul regime. Herat-Shindand road is the main target of the Mujahideen's attacks. They also attack the air base in Shindand. Regime fires rockets on villages controlled by the Mujahideen. People living in the areas controlled by the Kabul regime, came to the
  District. It is an interesting place with many springs and grazing fields. Jami'at is the majority party in Purchaman. There was a clinic in this district and the Mujahideen had opened schools for children. Prices of food commodities were very high because trucks can go to Purchaman only during summer. The road is blocked in winter due to cold climate and poor road conditions
     We stayed two nights in Gulistan District Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) is the majority party in Gulistan, but its two commandos cannot get along with each other. They had tribal differences. Most the people of Gulistan had become refugees.
     In Bakwa District few people lived. The majority of its people woe living in refugees camps in ban. Bakwa agriculture depends on undo-ground water. During the rule of Daud, tube-wells were dug and water was pumped out of wells by diesel pumps. But now the system has stopped woik-ing. In Gulistan and Bakwa poppy was grown
     Raees Abdul Wahid, Jami'at commander in Baghran District of the neighboring Helmand Province, had set up a new base in Bakwa to block the Herat-Kandahar road in the face of the regime convoys bringing supplies to Helmand and Kandahar. No regime convoy had passed the area since the establishment of the new base.
     All along the way the security was good, except in Bakwa district where two armed groups who claimed to belong to Harakat Inqilab (Mohammadi) robbed people. Local people thought that they were KHAD agents trying to defame the Mujahideen.
     The Kabul regime controls the pro-. vincial capital of the province.
     Jehad politics in Helmand is greatly affected by tribal considerations. Ordinary people try to find a connection between every good thing to their
 Mujahideen clinic for treatment Trucks own tribe. For example, they admired moved between the Shindand town, under control of the regime, and liboated areas.The Mujahideen did not allow the local people to visit the town.
     Enough people lived in Shindand.
 All parties are present there and they are united. We saw commanders from Jami'at Khalis, Harakat and Hezb together.
     Passing through Khak-i-Safid and Balabolouk, we saw the presence of the Kabul regime in the center of Balabolouk only.
     We stayed one week in Purchaman
  Commander Masood but thought that such a brave man must have some connection to their tribe; and in the first days of Gulf crises when Saddam Husain had emerged as hero challang ing a superpower, the mot from Nooizoy tribe in Farah were saying that Saddam must have been from Nooizoy tribe.
  After three and half months we reached the border of Pakistan. A considerable amount of time was wasted because of road blocks caused floods.
 by
                                             AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,1991, page 0
 Jami'at envoy visits Sweden
   ■ Daud Mir, Jami'at Islami's representative in France, discussed the situation in Afghanistan and problems concerning humanitarian aid for Afghans with the officials of the Foreign Ministry of Sweden in Stockholm on April 19.
     The Swedish side expressed their support for the Afghan people in their struggle for self-determination.
     The people and government of Sweden have been supporting the struggle of Afghans in the past one decade of war. Swedish government has given substantial humanitarian assistance to the war-affected Afghans through the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and the UN agencies.
 Rabbani opens media seminar
     A four-day seminar discussing the role of mass media, in free Afghanistan, was opened in Islamabad by Prof. Rabbani on May 11.
     The seminar was organized by the Cultural Council of Afghanistan. The Council, headed by Sabahuddin Kushkaki, a former- Minister of Information and culture of Afghanistan, is a private non-political organization supporting Jehad.
     The role of print and electronic media was discussed by prominent Afghan scholars. Twenty five papers on different aspects of media were read out in the seminar. These papers will be published as a book so that Afghans could benefit from die views expressed in them.
     The organizers hope dial the seminar will provide ideas for the Afghan leaders who form die new government in a free Afghanistan. This was the fifth seminar held in the past two years by the cultural council. The previous seminars discussed education, judicial and politic system in a free Afghanistan.
  Floods in Faryab
     Floods and landslides caused by heavy rain have destroyed about
 8,000 houses and many irrigation channels in Faryab in foe past two months.
     Quoting Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf, the provincial head of Jami'at Mujahideen, HINA parted that due to lack of proper housing death among children and elderly have increased recendy.
 V______________________________)
    Dear Sir,
    I was profoundly disturbed to read the article entitled "Afghan Diplomat Criticizes UN Human Rights Reporting" which appeared in VoL 7, No. 2, of your publication.
    I have known Mr. Pazhwak from the time when he was the Afghan representative in the Commission on Human Rights in the early sixties. I esteem his ability and interest in human rights
 reporting, published in AFGHANews of IS January 1991, greatly surprised me and I was particularly shocked by his statement that I am censored by the Government when reporting to the United Nations. This allegation is completely untrue and violates my honor as an independent expat and my commitment to foe Afghan question which, I believe, has been amply demonstrated in my reports. It is only the burden of litigation that prevents me from challenging this statement before competent courts.'
     I would be grateful if AFGHANews could publish this reply in a prominent space in its publication.
     Felix Ermacora
     Special Rapporteur on foe situation
     of human rights in Afghanistan
     Geneva-Switzerland
     Dear Sir,
     I would like to congratulate foe Mujahideen on their victory against foe puppet regime in Khost Insha Allah foe Mujahideen will be victorious all over Afghanistan.
     I enjoy reading AFGHANews, but it states that there are problems among foe Mujahideen. Brothers! if there are
Afghan Jehad that lasted 13 years will be a waste.
    Personally, I do not understand how there can be problems among the Mujahideen? The Mujahideen I have spoken to say they all favor foe establishment of an Islamic government Mir Ali Hackensack New Jersey -USA.
    Dear Sir,
    It has been a long time since I have
 been in Peshawar (December 1989) and I am very happy to be able to greet you all again.
     May I offer my congratulations on foe fall of Khost _ I look forward to more Mujahideen victories. How about Kabul next?!!
     I was sorry to read of the cowardly attack against Ustaz Rabbani. Please accept my condolences for the death of his bodyguards. Also, I was grieved to read that Commander Sanaullah of Central Units Heavy Weapons was recently martyred in action in Taliqan. I knew him well, and spent several days with his group during the 1988 operation against Komi Mali in Bagh-i-Zakhira. He was a fine and able Mujahid and his death is a sad loss.
     I am currently revising a book that I have been writing for foe past year about my 1988 trip inside, and strangely I was working on die chapter concerning Sanaullah when I got foe tragic news.
     Keep up the good work with AFGHANews. Thanks for the copy you send me, it is excellent reading -and source material. I hope to be in Peshwar - Insha Allah - by August this year. See you then.
     Terence White
     Gisborne- New Zealand
     Dear Sir,
     Thank you for sending AFGHANews regularly., Without receiving it, I would have remained unaware of developments in relation to Jehad.
     In order to help publishing the paper. I’m enclosing a check of $500. learned about the blast close to foe resi-
that Prof. Rabbani was not hurt. I condole with foe families of his guards who died in foe incident Zia Ahmad Yamayee Spokna
    Washington- USA DearSir,
    Never have we read your esteemed AFGHANews with so much pleasure when in the April 15 issue we read such a big tide: Khost is liberated. We were overwhelmed with pleasure. Mohammad Raffick Port-Louis - Mauritius
matters. His criticism of my method of
problems among foe Mujahideen they         of    ^ Rabbani. Thanks Allah
should be solved. Otherwise, the enemies of Islam will be happy and
AFGHANews Vol7, Noll, June 1,'1991, page ©
UN chief presents Afghan peace plan
      Diplomatic activities to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan entered a new phase when the UN Secretary-General announced a five-point plan for achievement of peace in Afghanistan.
      The UN formula recongnizes the right of Afghans for self-determination and preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan. It envisages a transitional period and formation of a transitional administration acceptable to all sides. The plan recommends cease-fire and imposition of arms embargo on both sides of the conflict during the transitional period. According to plan, the transitional administration will organize elections for establishment of a representative government;
      The plan has been welcomed by Pakistan, US and the Kabul regime. Iran supports a political solution of Afghan problem through holding elections.
      Two Mujahideen leaders. Prof. Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, rejecting the plan called it a conspiracy against the Mujahideen. Other leaders have been waiting for details of the plan before reacting to it.
      Benon Sevan, UN Secretary General's representative has been shutting between Kabul, Islamabad and Tehran in the past few week to discuss the issue with concerned parties. In Peshawar, he met with some Mujahideen leaders and the Council of Commanders. It seems that Sevan is trying to find common ground among
 all sides in the conflict.
     Pakistan has increased its diplomatic activities for finding a political settlement of the Afghan issue. Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, visited Riyadh and Tehran to discuss ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan with the leaders of Saudi and Iran. Another Pakistani delegation, headed by Riaz Ahmad Khan, is currently visiting Moscow for talks with the Soviet officials.
     Meanwhile, Prof. Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani and two other Mujahideen leaders visited Tehran at the invitation of Islamic Republic to discuss Afghan situation with the Iranian leaders, prior to Zaki's visit to Tehran. These leaders also held talks with Hezb Wahdat, a Mujahideen party based in Tehran.
      While these political moves have generated hope about a political solution, it is too early to justify such an optimism. The Mujahideen are unanimous in rejecting any role for PDPA. They want Najib to step down and PDPA to transfer power to an representative government.
     The Soviet and the Kabul regime have stuck to their former position ruling out exclusion of the Kabul from any political process.
     While activities for achievement of a political settlement has intensified, both the Mujahideen and the Soviet-backed Najib regime want to improve their military position so that they can speak from a position of strength.
Kabul celebrates Khalili’s birthday
    Kabul regime commemorated the 86th birthday of famous Afghan poet, Khalilullah Khalili, who died in Pakistan as a refugee some years ago, Kabul Radio reported.
    In a meeting, organized by the Ministry of Information and Culture of the Kabul regime, speakers paid rich tributes to the late Prof. Khalili. The meeting ended by holding a concert!
    Ustad Khalili was a renowned Afghan poet whose reputation had spread beyond the borders of Afghanistan.
    He spent the last years of his life in Pakistan with the refugees and Mujahideen where he continued to write poetry in support of Jehad. During this period he became very close to the ordinary people of
 Afghanistan and won their respect and admiration.
      The Kabul decision to celebrate his birthday is part of the regime drive for improving its dented image, the same way that it misuses Islam and Afghan history.
 UN builds guest house
     The Kabul regime is negotiating with UN officials in Kabul over the establishment of a "Peace Guest House," with a capacity of 5000 people, in Jalalabad, Kabul radio reported.
     A "peace guest house” is a temporary center for returning refugees. These guest houses are run by the regime but funded by the UN. One such a guest house has been opened in Herat to receive returning refugees from Iran.
 Another triumph
        From page (4) to the problem of Afghanistan, over shadowed the Mujahideen's victory in Takhar. Absence of Kabul public reaction to the fall of Khawja Ghar de prived the Mujahideen of publicity around the their significant military achievement in the north.
     The Mujahideen's victory at Khawja Ghar demonstrated that the strategy of attacking smaller targets, rather than launching attacks on Kabul, is a wise program. This strategy was agreed upon by the Council of Commanders held in Shah Salim at the end of 1990.
 . Finally, the liberation of Khawja Ghar has raised the morale of the Mujahideen paving the way for further victories against the Kabul regime.
 Khwaja Ghar
                                                   From page (1)
    Commando1 Bashir who had no part in the operation continues to send reports of his victories. His men in Peshawar bitterly quarreled with a local BBC reporter who had reported the liberation of Khwaja Ghar undo the command ofMasood.
    The Kabul regime still has presence in Yangi Qala and part of Rustac District. Regime troops in the area are in constant touch with the Soviet authorities and use Soviet territory as a transit route for bringing supplies and reinforcement. The Mujahideen are determined to continue their drive for clearing the area from the presence o! the Kabul armed men.
    The arms and ammunition captured in Khwaja Ghar enable the Mujahideen to launch large-scale attacks against the remaining garrisons of the enemy in the area.
                                                  tHeCp us puStish ftfQtHJAfhfezvs!
                                              Ttease send your donations to tfie foCCerwing account numBer:
          yEd&D ‘Account ‘Ng. 735-37 9ta6ib ‘Banf^Ltd.
                                                  Tjefdqd ‘Bata, ‘Pesfuiwar Batistan
Vol7, No 12                                                June 15,1991
 Moderates form 3-party alliance
    The three moderate parties of Harakat, headed by Mawlawi Nabi, Jabha, headed by Mujaddidi, and Mahaz, led by Gailani, have formed a new coalition to coordinate their activities. The three parties are also members of the AIG .
    These parties had entered similar arrangements in the past too. The new feature of the coalition is the good relations of these parties with the US and Saudi Arabia because they send their Mujahideen to take part in the Gulf war.
    The new coalition has left the door open for other parties. They might like Jami'at and Shia parties to join them. If they can include other parties in the coalition, it will emerge as a political grouping led by the so-called moderates. The new coalition is naturally close to the line promoted by the former king.
    . The coalition hopes that the Saudis and US not only support it morally but financially. There is a good opportunity for this cooperation because the so-called fundamentalist parties have made the US and Saudis angry by not sending their Mujahideen to fight against Iraq. This coalition, however, does not have the right elements in it to steer the Mujahideen out of the current political and military stalemate.
 Kabul plane bombs village in Tajikistan
    The Kabul regime admitted that one rtf its planes bombed a Soviet village by mistake on May 28, killing four people and injuring several, TASS reported.
    The village, Namadguti Poyeh at the bank of the Pyandzh river, was mistaken for a village in Zebak, Badakhshan. Several buildings and power transmission lines were damaged in the
 attarir
    The Kabul regime has regretted the incident and has offered compensation for the victims of the air raid. This is the first incident of its type since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. The bombed village is located in the Tajikstan republic of the Soviet Union.
    The Kabul regime has said it will punish the pilot because he has killed Soviet citizens. If he had killed Afghans, he would been given a cash prize and aceitificale of bravery.
Najib's Herat victory claim
     An Iranian freelance journalist has contradicted Kabul regime claims that it has forced the Mujahideen out of Zindajan District.
     Feraydoon Ganjoor, who had just returned from an eight-day visit to Zindajan, told BBC on June 5 that he met with Ismail Khan in Zindajan; fighting continued there and the- Mujahideen had suffered few casualties.
     Kabul regime troops launched a large-scale surprise attack against Zindajan District, west of the city of Herat and about 80 kilometers from the border with Iran, on May 4.
     Ganjoor said Zindajan was important for the Mujahideen because it was the center of Jehad in Herat Ismail Khan, the famous Mujahideen com-mander in western Afghanistan, spends most of his time in Zindajan. The Mujahideen had established a hospital and several committees in that city.
     Ganjoor said Zindajan was sdll be-sieged by regime troops. The Kabul regime attacked Zindajan with more than 6000 men after intense aerialbombard-ments and rocketing.
     Ganjoor said that aerial bombardments continued while he was there. Regime jets bombed the area up to 25 times each day, day, and night, he added.              7  .    ' -
     Ganjoor described how dead bodies of militiamen killed by Mujahideen and animals killed in bombardments
 had fouled the air.
     He said the city was almost empty of civilians. "I only saw a few old men and one seven-year old child in Zindajan,” Ganjoor said.
     He said half of the buildings in Zindajan were destroyed and a quarter of the rest were damaged. The vaccination center built by UNICEF was also destroyed by the regime.
     In reply to a question about the claim of th<^ Kabul regime that it has forced Ismail Khan and his Mujahideen out of Zindajan, he said: "This claim is untrue. Ismail Khan is still there and the area is controlled by the Mujahideen. This fighting has such animportance for the Mujahideen that Ismail Khanhas asked riiany of his important commanders, like Allauddin Khan, Ghalib Khan and Haji- Mir to come from other parts of Herat and fight in Zindajan. The Mujahideen have built fortified bunkers which protect them well. Their casualties are few.”
     He said that about 50,000 people of Zindajan have became refugees. About 10,000 of these have crossed into Iran, the rest have scattered throughout villages in the liberated areas. Supply routes from Iran were under regime attack, maldng»it difficult to bring food and medicine. Food shortages were evident
Afghan girl disrupts Gorby’s speech
    Shahla Sultani, an Afghan girl living as a refugee in Norway, interrupted Gorbachev's speech on the occasion of receiving Noble Peace Prize twice by demanding the end of Soviet support for the Kabul regime and the clearing of Soviet land mines left in Afghanistan. She was taken out of the hall by police.
    The incident received wide coverage because major world TV networks were present in the hall to cover the event. Shahla said she wanted to draw world attention to the suffering of the Afghan people at the hands of the man receiving the peace prize.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page @
 Baghlan Province
    Dah Mullah Deen Mohammad has defected along with 30 of his aimed men to the Mujahideen of Jami'at- He belonged to the 80th Division of Kayan militia groups stationed in Dooshi District.
    Two security post of Kayan militia group in Dara-i-Ashraf was captured by Jami'at Mujahideen on May 20. Two other posts, in Tala area of Bamyan, were over run by the Mujahideen of NIFA, Khalis and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf ). One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen injured.
 Parwan Province
     •      The Mujahideen killed six soldiers and captured two on May 3, when they attacked four security posts in Qala-i-Surkh of Jabulseraj, at the mouth of the Salang Valley.
     They seized ten Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one rocket launcher, one R-105 wireless set and some food and ammunition.
     Meanwhile, the headquarters of the regime Second Division,, and other military installations were attacked with heavy weapons, inflicting losses on the enemy.
     •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at launched attack against the enemy in Salang, Jabulseraj, Totom Dara (mouth of Ghorband valley) and Charikar on , June- 3, inflicting losses on the enemy and1 blocking the Salang highway. Fighting continued till June 4.
     On the first day of the attack, 11 tanks and armored cars and 12 trucks were destroyed in Jangal Bagh area of Totom Dara. In Jabulseraj, two trucks and one tank were destroyed. The Mujahideen attacked Qala-i-Surkh, the headquarters of Second Division and Sangar Battalion with heavy weapons, killing four officers and wounding 12 soldiers.
     On June %, seven tanks and trucks were destroyed in Qala-i-Surkh and Sangar Battalion and 11 soldiers and officers were killed.
      On June 3, the Mujahideen attacked regime positions near Charikar Clinic, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy.
      In Kooklami, Olang and Bagh-i-Maidan, located inside Salang Valley, the Mujahideen destroyed four trucks , three tanks, one anti-aircraft gun and one BM-13 rocket launcher. An unknown number of the enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
      On June 4, an ammunition dump of the enemy in Qala-i-Surkh was set on fire. It burned fra- two hours.
    During these four days, the Salang road remained closed. The Kabul regime bombed the residential areas in Jabulseraj, Gulbahar, Salang and surrounding areas, destroying a large number of houses and killing many civilian population. The enemy is also making use of artillery and rockets against the Mujahideen extensively. The casualties of the Mujahideen are not available. The attack on Salang coincided with regime attack on Khwaja Ghar.
 Balkh Province
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the regime militia forces in Arghoun, Nahr-i-Shahi District, on May 25. In the fighting which continued for four days, 40 militiamen, including Chamoot, a famous militia commander, were killed and nine were injured. The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
    Armored cars: 4 Tanfcl
    PK machineguns: 2 Kalashnikov rifles: 50 RPG rocket launchers:4 some ammunition The Mujahideen lost 20 men in the operation.
    #      The Kabul regime jet fighters bombed Sholgar bazaar killing eight people and wounding 50. Tens of shops and houses were destroyed and scores and animals were killed. The bazaar is the trade center for the Sholgar District and adjoining areas. The attack took place at noon.
 Herat Province
    Fighting in Zindajan still continues. From May 31st till June 6, the Mujahideen killed more than 100 regime troops and destroyed nine tanks and four tracks.
    The Mujahideen shot down a regime jet on June 8 in Zindajan. The pilot who bailed out was rescued by the enemy helicopters.
 Helmand Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime forces in Grishk on May 24, destroying one tank and two trucks and killing 20 communists soldiers and officers.
    The Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy in Delaram area on April 29 destroying 19 tanks, armored cars and trucks. The casualties of the enemy were not available. Six Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
    The Kabul regime retaliated by heavy aerial bombing of liberated areas which resulted in killing or wounding of a large number of civilian population.
 Takhar Province
    A huge force of the Kabul regime which was comprised of units from Division No. 18, Division No. 20 and Division 55 and militias of Sayyec Kayan and Rashid Dostum launched an attack to recapture Khwaja Ghar on May 28. The ground attack was combined with heavy aerial bombing and firing of SCUD missile.
    The council of commanders in Khwaja Ghar which is comprised of the Mujahideen of six parties decided to withdraw from the city in order to safe the life of ordinary people. But the Mujahideen will keep the surrounding village and strategic points arounc Khwaja Ghar and continue to resist the enemy.
    The enemy reached Khwaja Ghar on June 2. So far six armored cars, three trucks and one ambulance of the enemy have been destroyed, 50 soldiers have been killed and about 5( were wounded.
    The Mujahideen lost three men in these fighting. Sayyed Yahya, the commander of 5th Battalion of the Islamic army and Abdul Hakim the commant -er of one of the units of that army were martyred on June 2. The third person
    m- Page (4)
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
                  to preserve Khost war memorabilia
 The helibus passes by a destroyed village of Panjshir in 1984.
    The Mujahideen of Khost have decided to preserved the remnants of war in that district. There are numerous damaged tanks, armored cars and planes in Khost. The Mujahideen say that these are part of the history of Jehad and should be preserved. The people, however, want to be allowed to turn them into tea houses and store rooms.
    Due to Mujhaideen's preoccupation and uncertain circumstances, they had paid little attention to this issue in the past
    : Poor living conditions is a key factor behind the disappearance of destroyed tanks, planes and helicopters. They are chopped up and sold as scrap metal.
    The Soviet and Kabul regimes r--------------------------!—>.
 Nowshehra blast
     Thirteen people were killed and many others injured when an ammunition dump exploded near Nowshera, near Peshawar, on May
 31.
     Some newspapers speculated that the dump might have belonged to the Mujahideen but a Pakistan Army press release said it belong exclusively to the Army.
  Kandahar Varsity'
     The Kabul regime has opened a university in Kandahar, which has only a faculty of agriculture. Radio Kabul reported.
     Opening universities in different parts of Afghanistan seems to be designed for propaganda gains. Even Kabul University is facing shortages of professors and academic facilities:
 have always tried to take away or com pletely destroy the remains of damaged tanks and planes. They did not want their soldiers and airmen to see scores of armored vehicles, helicopters and planes destroyed by the Mujahideen because of their demoralizing effect on their soldiers.They also wanted to deprive the Mujahideen and foreign press from reporting the damages inflicted on them.
     The decision of the Mujahideen of Khost, if implemented, will enrich the war museum of a free Afghanistan. The Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan should follow them in their wise decision.
     In 1983, the Mujahideen in Panjshir turned a damaged Russian helicopter into a bus. The body of the helicopter was fixed on a captured Russian truck. People enjoyed training by what was called "• Helibus" The bus drew the attention of visiting Mujahideen and foreign journalists.
                     AFGHAN PROVERBS
1

     Everyone’s own country is Kashmir to him.
     Meaning: There is no place like home.              1
         S^
     Though the mountain be high, there’will still be a road to its top.
     Meaning: Every problem has a solution.
     Wisdom is learnt from the unwise.
     Meaning: Wisdom rides upon the ruins of folly. Learn from the mistakes of other.
JL
<U. 6J
                      r
    The world is his who eats (enjoys) it, not his who saves (and skimps).
     Meaning: The gown is hers who wears it, and the world is his that enjoys it.
Marratea Jabvr bin Abdullah: I
m             ' ■* \........              '' '
     IP 1 , .
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
             Tel: (0521)           , FAX: (0521) 42410
  Editorial
No peace with regime in power
    The UN peace plan must be studied by a committee representing all Mujahideen parties. This committee should shape the common position of the Mujahideen regarding the plan. Reaction by individual parties causes further differences among the Mujahideen and nuns efforts for a peaceful solution of the Afghan problem.                     I
    A study of Mujahideen reactions indicates that all the Mujahideen find some positive point in the UN plan. Points like restoration of independence, the Islamic character of Afghanistan and exercise of the right of self-determination by the people of Afghanistan are the points which cannot be disputed. The Mujahideen have been fighting for the achievement of these aims.
    Regarding two i items of the plan - ceasefire and intra -Afghan dialogue -the Mujahideen have expressed some reservation because these can be interpreted in many ways. Observing a ceasefire during a transitional period which the Mujahideen agree upon is a logical step. But there must be no ceasefire while the regime remains in power.
    The most controversial point in the plan is that of intra-Afghan dialogue. Although it is a very general concept, the Mujahideen want to make it known that there is no chance of talks between the Kabul regime and the Mujahideen.
    This means there needs to be further clarification by the UN. Equally important is adoption of a common stand by Mujahideen on the issue.
    The countries friendly to the Mujahideen also have supported the UN plan. There is a need for coordination of their Views with those of the Mujahideen.
    Some people might wonder why the Mujahideen oppose participation of the Kabul regime in elections, which would be an easy way to vote the regime out of power.
    The Mujahideen are sure the Kabul regime would be defeated in a fair election. They do not want to allow Kabul to take part, however, because that would give the regime false legitimacy, the consequences of which would be disastrous for Afghanistan. A political deal with the Kabul regime will make it the legal heir of past legitimate governments.
    The Kabul regime came to power in a military coup which faced an immediate people's uprising . The Red Army installed the regime's current leaders: their rule is a direct result of the Soviet invasion. We should avoid any step which might lend the appearance of legitimacy to these discredited puppet rulers.
    Afghans must worry about Soviet intention in Afghanistan for two reasons:
    First, there is no real change in Soviet policy towards Afghanistan. They support the Kabul regime by all means and try to prevent Afghans from choosing the type of government they want.
    Second, Afghanistan shares a long border with the Soviet Union. Moscow links developments in Afghanistan with its internal security.
    Because of these two points, Soviets will continue to meddle in Afghanistan using every means at their disposal. Legitimizing the Kabul regime through a political deal would give legal status to all the treaties signed between the USSR and their puppets in Kabul. Although there is no information about the number and nature of these agreements, one can expect that these accords would provide a pretext for the Soviets to influence the course of events in Afghanistan to their own benefit.
    The Mujahideen are not ready to deal with Kabul in order to bury the tragic chapter of communist rule and Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. Relations between a free Afghanistan and the Soviet Union must not be based on the tragic years of occupation and invasion.
    In order to achieve this, the Mujahideen insist on the policy of "no deal with the Kabul regime." If Moscow can smuggle Honecker out of Germany and give him political asylum, it might attempt the same for Najib, perhaps the worst of all living dictators.
 News from the Battliefields
                                               From page (2)
 was a Mujahid.
    The martyrs were buried in a special ceremony held in Taliqan which is described to be unprecedented in the history of Jehad in Afghanistan. Thousand of people attended the burial ceremony to pay respect for the martyred commanders . Read obituaries on page (7).
 Farah Province
    Several jets fighters and helicopters of the Kabul regime were destroyed on May 26 when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked Shindand air base with ground-to-ground rockets.
    Three helicopters were destroyed by rocket crashing into the base and 2 jet fighters were destroyed by fire in a fuel dump caused by incoming Mujahideen rockets. Eyewitness reported that the fuel dump of the air base burned for four hours. The Mujahideen also attacked the regime headquarters in'the base which resulted in destruction of a truck and killing or wounding of a number of enemy servicemen.
    The district headquarters of Shindand was also attacked which resulted in killing of 25 enemy soldiers and wounding of 16.
    The enemy retaliated by aerial bombing of the liberated areas causing some casualties among civilians. The enemy made use of incindiary and cluster bombs against the Mujahideen;
 Communist leader killed by comrade
    ■Hashim Paykar, the former governor of Faryab Province and one of the leaders of Groh-i-Kar , a communist faction, has been killed in Maimana during the course of an internal dispute.
    According to a Mujahideen source, the fall of Qaysar District caused a row among the faction's members, which led one of Paykar's comrades to kill him.
    The source said Payakar's death was good news for the Mujahideen because he was extremely active, trying to infiltrate Mujahideen ranks and create misunderstandings among them.
    Paykar's replacement by i Parchami governor sparked violent clashes between the supporters of Groh-i-Kar and the Parchamis, leaving many dead on both sides.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 12, June 15, 1991, page 0
     The fifth pillar and one of the finest institutions of Islam is the Hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. The performance of the Hajj is obligatory, at least once in a lifetime, upon every Muslim, male or female, who is mentally, financially and physically fit.
     The Muslim who is of responsible age, in good health, and financially capable must make the Hajj at least once in his or her lifetime.
 Financial security in the context of Hajj means he should have enough to pay his own expenses and those of his dependents, and to cover any debts he may have until he completes the Hajj.
     The course of Hajj is another unique characteristic of Islam. It is enjoined by God to serve many purposes, among which are the following:
     It is the largest annual convention of Muslims meet to know one another, study their common affairs and promote their general welfare. It is also the greatest regular conference of peace known in the history of mankind. In the course of Hajj peace is the dominant theme; peace with God and one’s soul, peace with one another and with animals, peace with birds and even with insects. To disturb the peace of anyone or any creature in any way is strictly prohibited.
     It is a wholesome demonstration of the universality of Islam and the brotherhood apd equality of Muslims. From all walks of life, from all trades and classes, and from every comer of the globe the Muslims assemble at Mecca in response to the call of God. They
 faith where
 dress in the same simple way, observe the same regulations, utter the same supplications at the same time in the same way, for the same end. To God, there is no royalty at all. There is no aristocracy, only humility and devotion.
     It is to confirm the commitment of Muslims to God, and their readiness to forsake material interests in His service.
 ilt is to acquaint pilgrims with the spiritual and historic environment of the Prophet Mohammad, so that they may derive warm inspiration thereby and so strengthen their faith.
     It is to commemorate the divine rituals observed by Abraham and Ishmael (Ibraheem and Isma’eel), who are known to have been pilgrims to the first house of God on earth: the Kabah at Mecca (Makkah).
 It is a reminder of the grand assembly on the Day of Judgement when people will stand equal before God, awaiting their final destiny, and where no superiority of race or origin will be recognized. It is also a reminder of the fact that Mecca alone, in. all the world, was honored by God as the center of monotheism since the time of Abraham, and that it will continue to be the center of Islam, the religion of pure monotheism, till the end of time.
     In the performance of Hajj it can easily be observed that it is a course of spiritual enrichment and moral rearmament, a course of intensified devotion and discipline, a course of humanitarian interest and inspiring knowledge — all put together in a single institution of Islam.
 | The Provincial Secretary of Pmy {fomierly:.tHe PDPA) in [Balkh has mysteriously been killedl jtiJBS office in Mazar city. ■ ||
 IPlIle wias lahed after critici^g:-tl^ I'army recruitment policy of the regime in a meeting attended by the | Interior Minister. He demanded that ranking party workers should also| send their relatives to the baulefields, [and oppose! forcible conscription of youths in BaDch Province.
 I                •••
     Engineer Gulbuddin Hikmatyar [has said that his party has more than one million members and tire number will reach two million in ti^-:oe»: ^| [tore, Shahadat, the offiefet^wg^^ Hezb, reported.
     He jlso claimed that hia;|partyj has 250.000 armed men • in|
 I Afghanistan , and - - was capable of forming a government without partic-ipationof blher parties.          m
                •M                |
 |^/]fefisunderstandings • /-between l^inaii Khan, the most senior J^t’at commander in Herat, and some other CJamfat commanders in tire province |have been resolved, Herat represen* five in.Peslav^Tepotted.          |
 I Knewed Understanding between different Jarai’at fronts led to coordij nation in recent fighting; rft Zindajart.
 I                ••*!:
     Taraki, the founder bfilire com| jmunist regime in Afgfeanlgan, killed jbjr Hafizullah Amin;" ^--secretly buried in Ghazni province. Sputnik, a Soviet magazine has reveaidL J|
     The people of Kabul believed that'Taraki was buried in Qool-i-Aab Chakan cemetery, inside the city. I Some people even set on fire a grave that was thought to belong to Taraki | to show their anger with tire communists.                       I
 .................................
     Four famous singers of Kabul radio and TV', Rahim Gbaffari. Shahrawan, Zahir Howaida and Patang, have taken refuge in India, MIDIA reports.
     They were forced to leave Kabul, as the Kabul regime wanted them to sing in all the official functions.
     Nashenas, a famous singer, had earlier defected to Pakistan. SarbanJ another Afghan singer and composer, has recently taken ., refuge in Peshawar,
 mm
                                            AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani
    Mawlawi                 Ghulam
 Rabbani, 47, was chosen to be the Mujahideen's governor of Kunar after the province's liberation from Soviet occupation in 1989. When Soviet troops left Kunar, ( the seven Mujahideen parties belonging to the AIG formed a 29-member provincial council. The council was given the job of electing a governor for the province and supervising the work of the Mujahideen administration.
    Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani was elected by 22 votes against seven. Being a religious scholar, one of the early Mujahideen, and having good contacts with all parties made him an acceptable leader. . ,
    He served as the governor of Kunar for more than one year. During his rule, the Mujahideen of Kunar liberated Noorgul, Kama and Khaiwa districts. Around 116 Mujahideen of Kunar were killed and 170 sustained injuries.
    Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani was replaced by Mawlawi Khalis, who at the time served as the Interior Minister of AIG. This decision created problems in Kunar. The new AIG-appointed governor, Mohammad Ali, was opposed by some parties. Elections were held to solve the problem, but these only complicated the situation further.
    The recent clashes between the supporters of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman, locally known as Wahabis, and Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar clearly demonstrates the need for moderate people like Ghulam Rabbani to deal with die complicated situation in Kunar. Mawlawi; Ghulam Rabbani blames Jamilur Rahman for many of the present problems and describes him as an extremist. He is also critical of Mawlawi Khalis for his unnecessary intervention in Kunar, which sparked the current crises.
    Ghulam Rabbani became involved in politics during the time of the former king, and during the rule of President Daud, he actively supported the Islamic movement. He gave shelter and protection to the members of the Islamic movement in 1975 who had launched armed attacks against the communist elements within the Daud regime in Kunar, Panjshir and Laghman. He had established contacts with the Islamic movement in Kabul University during the rule of the former king, and visited
• Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani
 Kabul to meet with leading members of the Islamic Movement. During one of his visits to Kabul, he talked to the stu-dentss of the university and two boarding high schools, and met with detained members of the movement in Deh Mazang Prison. His first meeting with Hikmatyar took place in jail.
     Ghulam Rabbani began his studies in his native village. After two years of study in Kunar, he went to Pakistan and studied in different Madrasas in N.WJP. and Punjab provinces.
     During his stay in Pakistan, he got in touch with Jamaat Islami of Pakistan and started reading books written by Mawlana Mawdudi, the Jamaat founder and leader. He became one of the admirers of the late Mawdudi, whom he met three or four times.
     After graduation, he returned to Kunar and started to teach in Narat; a village in Shegal Valley. He promoted political awareness among his students and warned them of the dangers posed by the communists. Meanwhile, the Panjpeeri sect (whose members were locally known as Wahabis), was gaining influence in Kunar. Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman was one of the early activists of this movement
     Ghulam Rabbani encouraged Jamilur Rahman to adopt a lenient policy towards the dominating non-Wahabi population because the main danger to Islam was coming from the communists.
     The Islamic Movement was divided after the 1975 uprising against the Daud government. Two groups were formed, one led by Hikmatyar and the other by Prof. Rabbani. Mawlawi Rabbani, who had contact with both sides, tried to restore the unity of the Movement He succeeded in unifying the two groups under Qazi Amin Weqad. This union, however, proved a short-lived arrangement
 Mawlawi Rabbani was in Peshawar when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He was informed of the coup by Ahmad Shah Masood, who lived at that time in Peshawar. He wanted to visit the Holy Places at Mecca before going back to Kunar. He was in Karachi when heard that Narat the village in which he had taught for several years, had been attacked by communist forces. The village was burned and most of his students fled to Dara-i-Paich.
     Cancelling his journey, he returned to Peshawar. He was advised not to go to Kunar because of the risks involved. The communists' oppressive rule had forced many Ulama to shave their beards to avoid arrest while trying to escape from Afghanistan. He returned to Kunar despite the danger.
     "If I had not gone," Mawlawi Babbani said, "the resistance (there) would have been crushed."
     Three months after his arrival in the Paich Valley, the Mujahideen liberated the district and seized some weapons, both light and heavy. He gave some of the captured weapons to the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan. Commando' Masood, for example, was given two rocket launchers, one DShK anti-aircraft cannon and one mortar. This was a great help at that time because the Mujahideen had few weapons.
     Mawlawi Rabbani maintained his good relations with all Mujahideen parties, but he .developed close contacts with Prof. Rabbani, whom he admired a lot. "He is a broad-mined scholar who treats all sections of the Afghan society equally," Mawlawi Rabbani said.
     Mawlawi Rabbani is worried about the current^ situation in Kunar. He considers himself a neutral figure who can bring about unity among the Mujahideen.
     Ghulam Rabbani is from Aranas village in the Paich Valley; he is a Nooristani. His father, Khan Malik, earned his Irving by raising goats. His native language is Nooristani. He also speaks Pushtu, Persian, Arabic and Urdu. When not busy with Jehad, he teaches his students the Holy Quran and the Hadith, the traditions of the Prophet of Islam (peeace be upon him).
     He is married and has four sons and two daughters. One of his sons is a student at a religious school in Pakistan, and another is busy memorizing the Holy Quran.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page 0
Obituaries
Cmdr. Sayyed Yahya
     Sayyed Yahya, the commander of 5th battalion of the slamic Army of the Supervisory Council, was tilled in fighting against the Cabul regime in Hazar Bagh, Khwaja Ghar on June 2. He was also the commander of Khost-o-Fering and Andarab districts.
     He was born in 1960 in Kenom, village in the outskirt of the city of Kunduz. His father, Sayyed Ekram, was a store-keeper • of the Justice Department of the province and lived in the city. Sayyed went to a primary school in Kunduz before joining Takharistan Madrasa.
     In school, Sayyed was fond of wrestling. He was a tough opponent for those who bullied him. He surpassed all his relatives in good character and abiding by Islamic values.
     He opposed the communists when he was in school. He was a student of 11th class of Takharistan Madrasa, when the communists took power in 1978. He left school shortly afterwards and joined the Mujahideen.
     The three Mujahideen commanders, Mohammad Shafiq, Makhdum-i-Kafeel and Qari Rahmatullah had jointly established a base in Qara Batur mountain in Chardara District,- Kunduz Province. Sayyed served as a liaison between the base and the city. Later he moved to Burka along with Makhdum-i-Kafeel and served as a one of his Mujahideen for one year.
     Sayyed visited Pakistan and Iran where he was trained by as an explosive expert
      Sayyed joined Masood in 1981. He was on his way to Kunduz, his home town, when he met Masood-in Panjshir. Masood found him an interesting young person. He invited him to stay in Panjshir. He accepted the offer.
      Sayyed worked as a secretary of Masood in relation with military affairs for several years. In the meantime, he took part in military operations. Panjshir was a hot spot those days. He was learning the art of war from a capable commander in one of the famous stronghold of the Mujahideen. He joined one of the mobile units for a while. He received training and took part in some operations outside the valley
      Sayyed helped Masood in his work with the Mujahideen in the North. When Masood decided to expand his influence in the North, he started with
   Commander Sayyed Yahya
 training of Mujahideen. He sent Sayyed as an instructors to Khost and Khaylab. He took active part in fighting for the capturing of Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons. He became the commander of Farkhar District in 1986.
     He later was the commander of one of the central units of the SC before joining the Islamic Army. He aborted a commando action in Khailab Valley in 1987 launched by the Soviet troops by destroying a helicopter with an RPG rocket.
     He made good use of his time in Masood's company. He studied books and learned the Holy Quran from two prominent Arab scholars, Qari Abu Mohammad and Qari Saeed, who spent sometime with Masood.
     Sayyed was a good writer. He even tried to write poetry but could not make much progress. He was a strict follower of Hanafite jurisprudence. This created a rift between him and some visiting Arabs who tried to preach their own school of thought
     He got married to his cousin in 1987. He has left behind two minor children.
     Sayyed Yahya's death is indeed a great loss to die Mujahideen, and Masood lost a loyal friend. The news of his death saddened every one who knew him or had heard about him.
 Abdul Hakim
    Abdul Hakim, 28, commander of a unit of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council, was killed in action against the Kabul regime in Hazar Bagh, Khwaja Ghar, on June 2, 1991. Reporting his death, Commander Masood described him as a brave commander.
    Abdul Hakim had been bom into a poor family in Peyawosht village in Rukha, Panjshir. His father, Khan Mohammad, was a farmer. His family’s poverty kept Abdul Hakim from attending school. He learned to read and write during Jehad, however.
    Abdul Hakim joined the Mujahideen in 1979. He took part in numerous military operations in Panjshir, Salangand Shomali.
    He displayed courage and leadership ability while fighting Soviet troops in 1984. He was the first man to return to Rukha after the Mujahideen's evacuation of the valley.
    At the end of 1984, he was appointed commander of Anaba in lower Panjshir, site of a Soviet stronghold. He and a few of his Mujahideen penetrated the enemy base and rescued some local people whose homes lay within its defenses and who wanted to escape. They also inflicted casualties on the enemy during this mission.
    In 1985, he became the commander of Abdara, another side valley in lower Panjshir. In 1987, he visiter Peshawar for medical treatment but soon retumed to Afghanistan.
    Before joining the Islamic Army in 1989, he served as commander of a group of 30 men in Rukha, Panjshir.
    Abdul Hakim was a God-fearing and soft-spoken person with a humble character. His martyrdom is a loss to the Mujahideen. He has left behind a widow and two minor sons.
 Wheelchairs for Afghan war victims
    According to the JIA representation in Australia, 100 pairs of crutches and 15 wheelchairs are about to be provided for victims of war in Afghanistan. The total cost of the project is Aust. $6750 (approx. 121,500Rupees). This amount is part of the donations collected during the Ramadhan appeal.
    The wheelchairs and crutches are expected to be purchased in the next few weeks in Pakistan, and distributed by a designated body among disabled Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council.
    In a message, JIA's Supervisory Council representative in Pakistan, Dr. Said Ahmad Haqbeen, thanked the Muslim community of Australia for their ^support of the Afghan cause.____________________________
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 12, June 15,1991, page ©
Jami'at serves as a bridge poles of the resistance:
     AFGHANews: Jami'at is accused of lacking a clear stand on major issues. What is your answer to this?
     Prof. Rabbani: Jami'at has adopted a moderate and pragmatic policy. It: opposes^the extremist policies which are idealistic and at the same time reject moves that undermine the political! image and military strength of the| Mujahideen. It opposes alny move which enhances the image of the Kabul regime. A moderate policy is needed at this sensitive period of our history.
     The war has changed the social and political texture of the Afghan society. The main objective is to preserve the national unity of Afghans and pave the way for the return of peace in the country. This will be possible when all the anti-communist forces get together. Jami'at is struggling for this aim, acting as a bridge between the extreme politics in both sides. If it is impossible to bring all groups together on a single platform, at least the majority of the re-, sistance groups should get together. This is necessary for national unity in Afghanistan. Some people might have, not understood our policy, but working for national unity and the return of peace gives shape to our programs.
     Playing such a role is not easy, but abandoning it-will lead the country to polarization and disaster. If such polarization takes place, each pole, with the support of its outside friends, will wage a war of proxies. Jami'at might have suffered some political setbacks due to this policy, but the interests of Islam and Afghanistan are more important than any other consideration.
     AFGHANews: Some Mujahideen leaders blame outside, conspiracies for the delay of Mujahideen victory, Are die Mujahideen feeing problems from within or without?
     Prof. Rabbani: Afghan Jehad, like most of issues of Muslim world, suffers from internal problems. Our main problems, are internal. We are not united and. do not have a single strategy.
     But there are external problems too, For example, some countries supporting Jehad promote specific people and parties of within the resistance because of their specific interests. In some cases, efforts are made to isolate and weaken the powerful parties. Some countries make decisions about Afghanistan without consulting the Mujahideen. The signing of die Geneva Accords against die wishes of the Mujahideen is a good example. We can
' Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani
 llllllllllllklllllllllllllllllttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllNIIIIIIlljlllll
 say some outside decisions have had a negative effect on Jehad, but our main problems are internal.
       AFGHANews: The Afghan resistance pays mare attention to post-war Afghanistan than to the removal of the Kabul regime. Don't you dunk this is the wrong approach?
       Prof. Rabbani: The Mujahideen, indeed, have had this problem. Instead of ^thinking about the removal of the Kabul regime, they thought about its replacement. Such thinking has created internal tension and political, differences.
       Each Party should not think about the future government individually. All Mujahideen parties should be involved in the decision about the future form of government.
       .Efforts to take power through a coup or' to strengthen positions around Kabul to thwart other Mujahideen, are footed in this way of thinking. Underestimatingithe strength of the eh-emy gave them a chance to survive. The Mujahideen have sprat their time on problems of the future at the expense of current problems.
       AFGHANews: Why can't the parties based in Iran and Pakistan agree on common plan? ”
       Prof. Rabbani: People on' both sides think that if all their demands are not accepted now, they will not be accepted in tiie future. They fail to understand that steps taken now belong to a specific situation. Today's decisions must not become a base for the future form of government in Afghanistan. The extreme positions taken by both sides are based on this misunderstanding. There is a need for realism.
                                            between two Rabbani
 Demands should be made at their proper time.
    In discussions with the Mujahideen based in Tehran, I found that they are interested in practical programs, which is a positive sign.
    AFGHANews: How do you evaluate your recent trip to Iran?
    Prof. Rabbani: I was invited by the Foreign Minister of Iran to visit Tehran. Velayati wanted to hear the views of Jami'at about the situation in Afghanistan before his talks with Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, on Afghan problem.
    From discussions with the Iranian i leaders, I found that the general impression that Iran was in favor of a political solution through ihtplementation of national reconciliation - power shar-iqg between Kabul and Mujahideen -was not correct. Iranian woe fully aware of the weaknesses of the Kabul regime and knew about the deep differences among different factions of the PDPA.
    But they thought that the Soviets might resist an extreme approach by the Mujahideen because they looked at Afghan problem from the angle of their national security. While Iranians did not oppose the armed .struggle by the Mujahideen, they were interested in finding a political solution to die problem of Afghanistan so that the suffer' ing of the Afghan people could come to an rad.
    When I was in Iran, a large number of people from Zindajan, Herat, were displaced because of a large-scale attack launched by the Kabul regime. I asked the Iranian government to help the displaced people. They gave 30 tons of food immediately and promised to provide more assistance in the future.
    AFGHANews: The Kabul regime claimed that it has gained significant victories in Herat. What was the situation there?
    Prof. Rabbani: In the initial phase of the attack which was massive ant surprising, the Mujahideen lost Rabat-i-Pay and Sang Bast areas in Zindajan. But later, they recaptured them. The casualties of the Kabul troops were very high. Regime had brought schoo children to fight against the Mujahideen. When the bodies of 11 children,-killed in fighting, were taken to the city, the people poured to the streets to protest against the regime.