 Vol 4, No 15                               August 1, 1988
       UN proposal for a 'national government'
     THE UN envoy for Afghanistan. Mr. Cordovez, at the end of a 12 days mission to Pakistan and Afghanistan for forming a broad-based government, proposed a plan which calls for a cease-fire following a "cooling-off " period to allow the holding of aLoya jirga by March 1 and the subsequent formation of a “national government of peace."
     Mr, Cordovez started this mission on June 29 when he stopped over in Tehran from Geneva to have, for the first time, a consultation with the representative of the Afghan $hia parties based in Iran, Cordovez went to Kabul ft&d after two days of Meetings with the regime leaders he immediately announced a plan for forming r 0 "national government of I peace" to be elected through a toy a Jirga or traditional r grand assembly on September 1 1, though the Kabul regime , was silent about his proposal. According to him, the government members will be i composed of “non-partisan, Independent and impartial Afghans." He also suggested a “cooling-off'1 period for six months during which the Mujahideen should stop active struggle in order to pave the way for the formation of a “national government of peace" falling on September 15-
    Reasoning the basis for his new move, he thought different approaches to building a broad-based government have already been tried without success. The policy of ‘national reconciliation' adopted by the Kabul regime failed to produce a coalition government.
    Emphasizing the idea of a “cooling-off" period, he said all the leaders of the Mujahideen should agree on the cessation of active struggle to allow refugee repatriation and the international Community to extend their humanitarian assistance for the reconstruction of the country,
    The seven party Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen and Us interim government have rejected the proposal, though two of its member parties headed by Mr. Gailani and Mr, Mujaddudi have welcomed the move.
    To form a broad-based Islamic government, the Alliance argues that since the majority of the population and territory is under the Mujahideens control, a fair and comprehensive election can only be held by the Mujahideen who are the real representatives of the Afghan people.
                                                     From the over-all
 context of the proposal it seems that the plan that Mr. Cordovez has crystal ized to proceed with lacks practical dimension as far as the composition and formation of a broad-based government or to his favour ‘national governmnet of peace" is concerned. The type of such a government that he envisages to come through a Leya Jirga under the present Communist regime can not be Impartial.
   Moreover, the regime will not tolerate a fair election which will obviously result in the loss of Communist power.
                               aniMMMMMHMMMH
 Mujahideen
   recapture
    gas-well
   ON May 15, joint Russian-DRA forces entered Faryab province aiming at reinforcing their posts and covering a gas-well in Gaisar district near Soviet border.
   Quoting a gas and oil experts jamiat Commander said. In order to avoid the discovery by the Mujahideen, the Russians recently covered the gas field and extended underground pipe-lines connecting it to a main field across the border on the Soviet territory. But, he said, after 20 days of fighting the Russians left the area and later on the gas well leaked and blew off the cover which it means, due to its outward pressure, It is impossible to approach nearer than SO meters to the field,
    There is no expert to work on the problem and the gas still continues err up ting.
AmHAHevs
August LSS8S,
Page 2I
                News
   from the battlefields *■-. ......... -.
   Balkh
     The Mujahideen under the command of Mohammad Aiam, jami’at‘s General j Commander in Bellch..
 | captured a BRA urban, security fesse killing four officers and 2$ soldiers and seising 12 trucks of foodstuff and arms on July 2nd.
     Situated la Shadyan area at the vicinity ol the provincial capital,, the base whieh belonged to Saraadoy (Parantilicary units) and KHAD was under Mujahideen seige for one month before it was taken over. Being constantly reinforced by the Russian-BRA forces, the base was one of the enemy s strong security posts around the city, established to prevent j Mujahideen infiltration into ! the city,
 1 In the lighting some of the j soldiers managed to escaped hut the rest were caught,
     •The Mujahideen launched a night attars on a Russian post in the city destroying a supply helicopter on the ground, two tanks, setting ablaze an arms dump and killing 11 Russian soldiers on June 28,
     The Mujahideen lost one man and three others were injured. The next day the Russians retaliated the attack fey bombing Marnool village i killing six residents and destroying some houses.
   Ghazni
    The Mujahideen from jamiat with the help of other local units carried out a large offensive in which they destroyed eight security post in Maidanshahr, the provincial capital of Ghazni, An unknown number of BRA militiamen and soldiers were killed in the course of eight hours fighting on 25 June.
    The Mujahideen lost three men and four others were wounded,
    Herat
     The Mujahideen shot down a Russian helicopter when it was bombing Tajikistan area of Farah province on June 12. The plane subsequently caught fire and crushed near Koh Pashtoo area close to the Farafe Airfield,
     •Two enemy security posts were destroyed in Naw Shafer area when hit fey Mufafeideen rockets m June 20, The Mujahideen took prisoner a KHAB officer namely Abdul Musa, captured eight Kalashinkovt and killed five soldiers without any casualties on their side
     •The Mujahideen attacked an enemy base in Qaiai Kuhna area near Shindand Airbase, killing 50 soldiers, wounding 15 others and taking 25
    others with their weapons on June 28, The Mujahideen also captured 60 Kalashinkove rifles, five machine guns, two DSchk and a number of hand grenades. The Mujahideen lost two men and some others were wounded,
    Kabul
    The Mujahideen led fey Jam! at commander Naqifeuliah, attacked PSA security bases near Koht Safi destroying five posts, taking prisoner eight soldiers, seizing three heavy machine guns, 25 Kalashinkov rifles and four communication sets on 24 June.
    The posts which were situated on three mountainous areas were established fey the BRA to disturb Mujahideen supply routes.
    From the Mujahideen three were killed and eight othrs wounded in the operation which lasted for six hours.
    •The Mujahideen attacked three DRA posts in Qarabagh district killing 12 soldiers, capturing 11 Kalsshlafcov rifles and a wireless set on 18 June.
    Two Mujahideen were killed and three were injured in the fighting,
    Kunar
    The Mujahideen from JamFst wiped out three BRA posts in Tareefa area taking prisoner 20 soldiers, killing iO others, capturing H fUiashinkov rifles, three machine guns and a ZPU on June 15-
    The posts were situation in the provincial center of Kunar, The attack was carried out under the command of t Khan Jan,
                                              Qandahar
      Five Russian soldiers were killed when a
 1
 t
- AFGHANavs VcA 4, Ho 13, August 1.1598, Peg* 3
 Jeep was blown up fey Mujahideen in a fruit market in Kandahar city on June 12.
    Ok the same slay the Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers, destroyed three APCs and set on fire two Russian jeeps in Hmrji area. Three Mujahideen were killed and eight were wounded in the whole operation.
    •The Mujahideen carried out an operation on enemy posts in Bab Ghaai and Ar ghandafe Pass Killing eight soldiers and taking prisoner a militia commander namely Esmat on July i I,
     The Mujahideen had no casualties in the fighting.
 The report says that more villages in the mentioned areas were liberated from BRA control -
    Zabul
     The Mujahideen led fey Wakll jaiH attacked Shahlooy district destroying some APCs and taking prisoner 50
    soldiers with their weapons and capturing 10 Kalashinkov rifles on June SO,
       The fighting which lasted for 4 hours during which the Mujahideen lost three men and eight others .were wounded,
    * The Mujahideen launched an attack on Shahr Safa district killing a militia commander and taking prisoner six soldiers with their weapons on June 10.
    The next day the enemy sent fresh forces from Kandahar to recapture the district but were forced to retreat, The Mujahideen seized 2 APCs, one jeep and great amount of foodstuff.
       On the same day the Mujahideen ambushed a ORA convoy coming from Kabul to Qaadahar. destroying three tanks, killing eight soldiers and taking prisoner 36 soldiers.
     From the Mujahideen, a local commander was killed in
    the fighting.
    Ba eights
    The DRA with the help of the Russian air force launched a massive operation in Ghoormaeh district involving 250 tanks and APCs and 13 jets taking off from the airfield in Faryafe province on June H.
    The fighting continued for ten days during which the enemy jets bombed district villages killing more than 30 residents and destroying some houses. Eight tanks and APCs were destroyed fey mines planted by Mujahideen. More than 60 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing with them light weapons.
    The Mujahideen captured two DSchk, six heavy machine guns, 60 Kalashinkov rifles and three communication sets. The Mujahideen lost five and 12 others were injured.
who’s whom th& Mufahidmn
 Commander
   PAGHMAN, before j Communists took power and the Russians invaded Afghanistan, was one of the most beautiful resorts of Kabul located on its western flank. Being about 19 kilometers far from Kabul, it was very easy to escape the summer heat of the city.
   Commander Ezat was born there 2? years ago in a small village called Khufa Musafer,
 His father, Mohammad Reas, was a civil servant working in Kabul, His father knew some religious books. He was
Ezatullah
   imprisoned fey the Russians In 19S2 in Puli Chart hi prison for four months,
   "He was tortured not to allow his sons to fee Mujahid," said Commander Esat’s young?r brother, f&ats father was 64 years old when he was torture \ by the Russians.
   Ezat was sent to Khuaia Musafer high school. He studied upto the!0th grade, "When the Communists took power, Esat left the school ant joined a group of Mujahideen under Commander Khalou,. He became an ordinary Mujahid. “He devoted himself totally to the cause/ remembered his brother* “It was my father wfec encouraged us to join the Mujahideen/' said his brother,
   Upto 1535 Ezat was
    working in Mr, Sayyaf s group, K was in 1965 that his group under Khaou joined Jamiat Islam!, When Commander Kbaiou was killed in a bombardment, Ezat was cheosen as the Commander of his group fey Mujahideen.
    Now Esat Is a respected commander of jamiat In Faghman. in the beginning of the war, his base was in Dara Zorgaf and later due to the pressure from the Russians he shifted to another base tailed Sangtakh.
    From early 1955 to late 19$6 the Russians escalated the level of fighting in and around Paghman.
    Commander Ezat organised his groups into smaller sixes to cope with the situation. Very soon he expanded his operational genes and established contacts with other groups such as Anwari from Harak&t belonging to Mr. Mohs ini . Commander Em
 ?oi4, He £5, Awgmx             Page 4
    AFGHANews
                PO !c& 264, Pg$ha:%^’aPalsi3lii& T©£i 41131
1_          
Editorial 1 
I Cordovezs proposal seems I        impractical
      THE first political move of Cordovas* the UN envoy on Afghanistan, which resulted in the agreement at Geneva on May 15, l^Sdi was rejected on different grounds by Mujahideen, now the second one , is paving the way for a broad-b&sed government' is proposed to be tested.
      The jist of the second is the “Cooling-off" period, Najibs removal; cease-fife. Leva jirga and establishment of a “national government of peace,'1 All in leas than eight months. The Mujahideen Alliance under Mr, G&Uinl was not united In I rejecting or accepting it, Mr G&i lanl and Mr. Mujaddudi | welcomed the proposal and the rest rejected it, i The proposal was perhaps drafted with the good intention to bring about peace m Afghanistan but certainly drafted in a real hurry, over-optimism and lack of practical knowledge of the socio-political and military situation In the country,
      A broad-based government, for the Mujahideen and people who fought for over tea years to defeat the enemy, does not mean coalition with the puppet regime or joining hands with the PDF A, People sU :sd their fight against the PUPA in order to remove it and not to make a coalition, By non-Mujahideen government we mean those who are against the invasion and Communism but have not been able to participate in the struggle.
      The notion of a cease-fire in the proposal is vague and unclear. Ceasefire with whom? Witt It be with the puppet regime? With the interim government? With the KHAE>, and the militias and army of the PD PA ?
      The removal of Na$ib is a good sign in the proposal, but what about the KHAD? militias, Sarautoov {paramilitary foree) and army? Witt the proposal d ismantS e them?
      The Leya jirga has no doubt in Afghanistan been a traditional way of choosing the government and solving the socio-political problems la a certain period of time and under unique conditions But it was used to he arranged under j relatively established governments which had backing of an j absolute majority of the people. There was no irreeonciliable j situation in that society such as Islam and atheism, Therefore j the jirga or traditional grand assembly will not foe practical j while the PDPA and all its protective institutions are holding j power,
 ; So the key to the solution would be the total withdrawal of j the Soviet troops from Afghanistan and the unconditional j departure of the PDPA or the puppet regime from power.
 Shia scholar criticizes interim government
    A prominent member of the High Council at the seven Shia parties based in Iran, in a press conference on July 12, ceriticteed the Mujahideen's present interim government for having no representation of the Shia community.
    This came at a time when the UN's special envoy on Afghanistan, Mr. Cordovez resumed his efforts for the formation of a provisional government or to his favour 'a national government for peace composed of independent and impartial Afghans in which neither Mujahideen nor the Kabul regime would have any role.
    On his way to Pakistan from Geneva. Mr, Cordovez stopped over in Tehran to have, probably for the first time, a discussion with the Shia leaders based in Iran.
    Mr, Hadi blamed the IUAM for partial composition of its interim government reasoning that it does not represent large communities, a reference to the Shia community. Claiming that the Shia community inside Afghanistan represents 33 per cent of the whole population, he added that Shias would form a similar government 11 the composition of the IUAM's interim government was not modified to include ail the Afghan Mujahideen parties.
    It should be mentioned that the Mujahideen’s present government which is only passing its initial stage has so far appointed 15 members to its cabinet in which, Mr, Wasiq is the only Shia member and the rest of the proposed ministfial posts are allocated to Sunnis who form the absolute majority in Afghanistan,
AFGHAHews Vol 4, Mo 15, August 1.1988, Page 5
    Prisoner tells of horrors in Communist prison
   A Mujahkl who was | Herat Mujahideen, imprisoned for four f came recently to
 years in the notorious jail of Puli Charkhi, ws.s set tree in reton for a sum of Afghanis four Lakh bribe to the regime's National Reconciliation Committee after doctors diagnosed fas nerve sickness due to serious torture as impossible and difficult to be treated in Afghanistan.
    Nair Hussain!, a Mujahid from Herat was captured on February 1953 along with bj others, out of whom were seven Mujahid, in a siege by joint Soviet-BRA forces in Ghooryan district while they were returning from Iran to Herat,
    He was taken to a EHAB center where he underwent serious tortures causing spinal fructure, nerve weakness and kidney infection.
    Hussaini who is also a graduate from Herat Teacher’s Institution and had cooperation in the cultur al and publicity activities of
 i
 L
  Peshawar. He said in an interview: "the members of KHAD gave evidence about my membership and affiliation to the jami’at party and as a result, the Deputy General Commander of the Soviet forces in the South Vest provinces, Mr. Gabel insistingly tried to get information from me about Soviet-captured soldiers;, ’weapons and Mujahideen bases in the area"
     "After 13 month imprisonment in Herat, I was trsnsfered to Puli Charkhi in Kabul where I spent the rest of my prison term,*' he said.
     Regarding prisoners condition and punishment in Puli Charkhi he said; "torture measures, such as beating, electric shocks, hang ing, sleep deprivation, removing nails and body hairs, burning body skins with cigarettes and solitary confinement are of the j common corporal j punishment every pri sonar undergoes."
1     ” If any of those
j (SHAD interrogators) who j are assigned to torture | can get confession or at | least prove a prisoner’s j conviction for death j sentence they will j receive financial reward 1 of a sum of Afghanis 5DGQ j from the Russian | advisors," described * Hussain!.
| He said, although after j the so-called National | Reconciliation campaign.
   Najib announced three times amnesty for prisoners, in fact only a. small number of men and women who had no political charges were released whereas the prison cells are full of people aging 6070, women, cripples and those whose bodies sre paralysed and who have tost their nerve control due to serious torture. Ee added, every one or two weeks the prison rooms and ceils are searcec for pens, knives, scissor, paper and money (not more than Afgs.1000) which are not allowed to be kept.
   another interesting point he said was that one month before a prisoner is supposed to be sentenced to death, he would receive good end fattening meals and encouragement for his release by KKAB officers. Afterwards, he would suddenly be taken to a special blood laboratory where all his blood is taken out to reserve for Russian-DRA casualties and his body is burned at a corner of the prison compound. He said more than 400 people inciting 12 women were killed this way in Balu 1366.
    Hussaini also remembered the fate of two captured Mujahid photographers from Kushk district of Herat namely Abdul Zubadr and Boost Mohammad who were taken to Russia for 9 months and subsequently killed in Puli Charkhi prison after their return.
AF&HAKe^s Voll No 15, August 1,1988, Page6
           Party document reveals invasion mistake
     ' The introduction of troops into Afghanistan reflected m excessive j tendency to use military force iu Soviet foreign policy."
     The above was stated in a commentary in the Soviet government newspaper ‘ Investin' by a prominent political writer, Alexander Bovin. The statement was also published in the New York Times with news about a secret circular issued by the Soviet Communist Party admitting a series of errors and misjudgement leading to the Soviet military move into Afghanistan.
     The paper writes: "The circular which was read aloud to party members strongly implies but does not state explicitly that the original
    decision to send Soviet troops was wrong."
    “The document supports the critics who say the Soviet leadership erred fundamentally in believing that a tribal. Islamic country like Afghanistan was ready to make the transition to Socialism.'1 Some noted personalities believe that reading such documents at the party level implies a shift in the party line which is important as a signal xo Soviet journalists and political analysts to begin a deeper and more critical examination of the war.
    Soviet scholars in meeting with Western visitors have recently begun freely describing the Afghan invasion as a mistake carried out by a narrow circle in the
    pol if bureau headed by Leonid Brezhnev. On July 18, 1988 Kim Zagolov a Soviet military analyst in an interview with the Soviet weekly Ogonyok said:" The ruling Afghan Communist party is too weak to bring economic and political stability in the country and factional fighting inside the party is likely to lead to a new civil war next year when the Soviets are out of Afghanistan.”
    The main point of the document implies that the Soviet leaders in 1979 had made their decision without fully understanding Afghanistan.
    Public portrayal of the war as a mistake remains a sensitive subject because Soviet officials are worried about offending the feelings of veterans and families of those who were killed in the war by abruptly declaring that they died in a misguided war.
       Good lesson from bitter
             experience
    AN Italian journalist, who was captured by the regime forces in November 1987 and released after seven months of imprisonment in Puli Ch ark hi prison of Kabul, has recently published an account of his captivity in the July issue of an American magazine, insight,
    Fausto BHislavo was taken prisoner by DKA forces in haghman province while he was on his way back to Pakistan from the North of Afghanistan where he travelled to cover the war as a photojournalist.
    He has described in detail the story of his captivity in eight pages of the magazine in which he goes as far as revealing the deeds and behaviour of the Communist regime and the Soviets. He ment ions the way he was
    beaten and hew he was forced to give an interview with a Soviet television team which was specially invited to film all his trial proceedings. Furthermore, he writes about the cond it ions of the prisons of the Communist regime. According to him. while filing his trial process in front of the Soviet camera, the judges finally sentenced him to seven years imprisonment on charges of being a “spy, advisor, sabuteur, terrorist and smuggler" contrary to the fact of his career being a journalist. Observing this, Fausto adds;" 1 thought the word journalist did not exist in the Afghan vocabulary.' This phrase, however, needs a little correction because the word journalist' &oes exist sn Afghan vocabulary but not in that of the Communist regime
    and the Soviets.
    From the overall story of Fausto it seems that he has acquired a better knowledge and access to facts and other aspects that he would not have otherwise been aware of. Now he can evidently state from his personal observation the ongoing events of Afghanistan with particular relation to the human rights in Communist prisons.
    His story deriving from a bitter experience might convince some western journalists and especially human rights observers that the situation in Afghanistan is worse than they would think. Thousands of innocents are tortured In Communist slaughter houses and prisons under the eyes and advice of Russian advisors.
AFGKAHe'ws Vol4, Ho 15. August !. 1938, Page?
  Afghans celebrate Eid with sorrow and hopes
   THOUSANDS of Afghan refugees living in exile celebrated on July 25 the great lid of Sacrifice (Hid-ui-Azha) in a sentimental mixture of hope and sorrow.
   Almost five thousand years ago, the prophet Ehraham inspired by God
    coup, the people celebrated Eid with great fervour and. happiness. Relatives of a family would come together and exchanges Eid presents and enjoy themselves for three happy days. It was an especially joyeus occasion for chidren who long awaited preparing everything including new clothes. Eld presents, sweet etc. It was also an occasion of friendly gesture and
    A divisive war has separated family members as a mother would not Know about her son and vis versa. Children's iiappy moments have turned into grievences and cries.
    They Instead of those sweet presents, are given Russian toys and batterfly mines which have net only removed the smile from their face but removed their hands and legs as well.
 obligation to offer to sacrifice his son, Ismael. Ebraham did so, but since it was a divine test of his prophecy, God; instead
          AFGHANews wishes a happy Eid to all its Muslim readers
 In Afghanistan the Eld prayer Is performed with a constant fear of Russian bombardment.
   To say it briefy, in Afghanistan, Eid occasions are not celebrated with
 happiness as ■
 before. On the
   of Ebraham‘s son, accepted a sheep from him. Since then, in order to commemorate that great sacrifice, it remained a religious obligation upon all Muslims to observe it once a year.
    Accordingly, every rich Muslim is supposed to sacrifice a sheep or cow and distribute its meat to the poor.
   In Afghanistan, before the Communist
    reconciliation in the sense that every disputing party would come to each other's house and reconcile together ignoring the     j
past-                     |
    People from different j towns end villages came together in a central mosque to perform Eid prayer.
    Eor nine years, like everything else, Eid has also changed and taken or a different color. The fire of the Russian invasion has burnt every means of people's happy life. The youth are either on the battlefronts or imprisoned in Communis?
   contrary, it will be a day of grief and mourning to those families who have lost their beloved. For them, the days of Eid would be spent on the graves of their sons and relative with tearful eyes.
   This is all the achievement that the Communist coup d'etat has brought about as a result of "Russia’$ international and historical cooperation with Afghanistan"
Vol 4, No 16
! Soviet POWs refuse to return home
      THE Islamic Unity of | Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM)
 \ has offered to release two j Soviet war prisoners through | the International Set! Cross a® j a gesture of goodwill arid to assess the Soviet response in the future.
      The initiative ft) release the two prisoners who belong to jami at was taken by the party s leader Prof, Rah haul who explained that the prisoners would he handed over to the Red Cross, through the IUAM and they are then free to choose between returning home (Russia) or | going wherever they prefere. i But in a two hour meeting with the 1CRC delegation on the 5th August and a subsequent press conference for the world media on the 11th August inside Afghanistan, the two prisoners strongly refused to | return to Russia or seek | asylum anywhere else The j Russians are Hat s to their promise, They will execute us if we return as it was the case for eight other soldiers who were killed in Russia on their j return through the ICRC, j claimed the two prisoners.,
 ! The names of the two
 j prisoners are El ham and | Qasim who are respectively | 22 and 23 years aid. They are j nationals of the Republic of 1 Uzbekistan descending from i Muslim families. The former
 . j
 I__       _____
 | joined the Mujahideen in [ 1955 in Paghman district j and the latter in Qarabagh ! district of Kabul province j early in 1956, i In response to a question regarding their defection to the Mujahideen, they said; j "fa Russia we were told that | we would be sect to | Afghanistan to defend our neighbour and frieadly country la fighting against Chinese. Americans and forces of Imperialism, When we came to Afghanistan we realized that it was the Muslim people ol Afghanistan, and not the Chinese and Americans, who were fighting against the Russian invasion and their installed regime. So we joined the Mujahideen/’ ft is to he remarked that the decision to release prisoners was taken a few days af ter a spokesman for the Soviet Foreign Ministry announced the readiness of that country for direct negotiation with the : Mujahideen on the release of ■ Soviet prisoners of war.
      After the Geneva accords, the Soviet authorities launched an extensive unsuccessful campaign for the release of their prisoners following a number of different ways including through UN organizations. This move
                                                              August 15.19SS
  by the Mujahideen is considered a suitable gesture ] to pave the way for direct j talks based m which both      j
  sides slight reach an         (
  agreement on the prisoners    j
  exchange in addition to       I
   discussing otiyr issues11 as j thought by Prof, Rabbam,   j
      Although the two prisoners do not warn to return to the Soviet Union as did six other prisoners who j were released, to the 1CRC but prefered to go to the USA       1
  despite an offer of general   I
  amnesty by the Soviets, the   j
  decision certainly            j
  encourages and affects the    j
  trend of the issue, creating  \
  gome kind of flexibility an   \
  the part of the Soviets who   j
  have already stated that they |
  would spare no ef iarts       j
  regarding release of their    j
  prisoners,                    j
  nsaBi»nHisMiaaHn»HWMnBnHnB j
                                                                 Regime’s j editor loins [ Mujahideen |
     THE Assistant Editor of   j
  the daily ‘Haqiqat Ingilab Sawr' ’’reality of Sawr Revolution' published by the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan         |
  recently defected and joined j
 ;. the Mujahideen In the      j
 I’ Panjshif valley,
      Abdul Latlf Pedram is ! believed to have been a well-known writer and a noted figure in the intellectual circle of Kabul.
 \ The mentioned daily was j published since the j Communist take-over in
 I Afghanistan sad Is one of the ©any Innueatlai papers In the party’s organ.          1
                                          Af&HAKe^s Vol4, No 16, August 15.1988, Page2
n
« <.1. Jiff I '■ JJWPiX^WaiiqgWlI
                                               Kxmduz
                                           Khanabacf district
( captured
{
i
| ON the 7ih of August,
| the Mujahideen from jamiat j with the help of local units,
\ captured Kh&nahsd district, j taking prisoner 400 DRA j soldiers, seeing !0 tanks, 20 | trucks, i 0 ZPU guns and a | large quantity of food and \ ammunition, in addition an I unknown number of ! communication sets and j mortars were also captured, The fighting against the enemy forces, which were composed of KHAD, militiamen and Sarandoy {para-military units),- lasted I for two days which resulted in the complete fan of the district,
    Khanatoad is a district of Kunduz province. It is an agricultural area situated on the main highway cf f Kunduz-Badakhshan, i
I
i Herat
i
j
| ON 25th July the i Mujahideen attacked militia | fortifications near Shindand area killing 20 militiamen, capturing 16 others with three off icers, seizing three Grinev machine guns, two [ Dschk and 70 K&lashiokov | rifles ,
I Eight Mujahideen were I kilted and 15 injured.
    On the same day different ; units of Mujahideen jointly attacked DR A posts around the Shlndand district. As a result they destroyed four posts, took prisoner $5 soldiers including two officers and seized 30 K&i&shinfcov rifles, one ZPU and eight heavy machine guns,
    ®A group of Mujahideen clashed with the militia force in Pushtrood area on the 23rd of July. One OR A coaimander, with five soldiers, were killed and IS Kalashinkov rifles were captured by the Mujahideen,
 One Muiahid was wounded hi the operation,
    &fn a series of operations on DRA posts in Zinda Jan, j Qadis and arm near Shindand district, the Mujahideen took prisoner 25 soldiers, captured 35 Kaiashinkov rifles and destroyed five A PCs and two trucks.
    On the same day the Mujahideen raided an out-post in Saraman area from which they captured five K&iashinfcov rifles, took prisoner eight sold ions and destroyed three vehicles.
                                                       Farah
     THE Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy near SMmalgah village on 1$
 July, destroying three APCs ^ and taking prisoner 10 soldiers from whom 12 Kaiashinkovs and two machine guns were seized.
         zatmi
                                                                                                              [
    THE Mujahideen launched      j
 an operation in the vicinity of j
 Azghandab district on 15        j
 July, As a mult. 2ft DRA soldiers Including a sergeant   ]
 with 20 AK“47s, one rocket,     j
 one communication set and       1
 three pistols joined the        I
 Mujahideen,                     j
    Three soldiers were killed   j
 and others were wounded in      !
 the fighting,                   |
    The nest day the             j
 Mujahideen raided a security    |
 post of Shahjooy district       j
 taking prisoner one officer     j
 with seven said iers. Three Mujahideen were injured in      ;
 the operatio
                                                                                                              i
                                                                                                              !
       Qandahar                  j
     MOBILE units of Mujahideen ambushed a fuel convoy on the Kerat-Kandahar highway on the 12th of July, in the course of 3 hours of fighting, six oil-tankers were burned Mid two APCs escorting the convoy were destroyed.
    Two days later, in a series of frequent air strikes and bombardments by the Russian planes on the Mujahideen positions in Charfcagb area, a large quantity of ammunition, and rocket shells of the Mujahideen were destroyed Some Mujahideen were also wounded in the air j raids,                  j
                                                  Kabul
      IN a joint operation on eight DRA security posts near Paghmaa en the i9th of July, the Mujahideen took prisoner 1 53 soldiers with three ! officers and seized 50
j K&iashirtfcov rifles and some 1 hew weapons including one I 2PU arid a mortar.
     About l3 Mujahideen were | mounded iij the operation,
i
            Na jib's brother talks to world media
   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        [
   i
-4
   t
 ! *The Mujahideen attacked j some security posts around | Mir-Bacha Koot district on the 25tfe oi jury, as a result,
 ! three posts were captured 1 and a number of light j weapons were seized, j A militia commander, by | the name of Mehmfc was taken I I prisoner by the Mujahideen,
 I
 y
 S Logar
 I
 j                          ' j
 j THE Mujahideen captured | m enemy tee belonging to j the 2i2thMA Battalion in | Fadtehwafe area near the | provincial capital on the I%h j of July. Seventeen light | weapons and some I ammunition were captured j from the base.
 | On the same day, the I Mujahideen attacked a BRA ,
 | convoy in Mango Khali    i
  destroying three APCs and j | killing 15 soldiers.      j
 | Aid worker I i killed in | mine blast
 j    TWELVE Persons,
 I including an sd<3 worker j i from the Horwegien I CammitTee, were killed in I l a land mine explosion in ! Jaj l area of Pektia J province on 20th July.
 |    As trad Norton, ^!, a
 i Norwegian woman and | Sailurahmaft, a member of the j Norwegian Committeer along j with I 0 other people, were | travelling to the jaji area j belonging to Paktia province I when a land mirse blew up | their vehicle killing all the | occupants, i The body oi the j Norwegian woman was taken to J Peshawar and was air lifted co [ her home country. Norway, I
  I--    -  —     —  ,   ■  - —
    THE brother of the head of the puppet regime of Kabul, who joined the Mujahideen tmi year along with his family, has recently came to Pakistan and s&ay seek political asylum abroad,
    Seddi nullah Rahi, after contacting Mujahideen on the 22th of October 1957, defected to the PaaJsMf valley along with his wife and two children.-
    He spent the first few months in the valley and the rest in Farfchar district of Takh&r province, With the opening of the Northern route, he and his family travelled to Pakistan with the 1 im caravan of Mujahideen,
    in a press conference in Peshawar on the 15th of August which was attended by 50 foreign and Pakistani journalists, Sediauiiah, in response to a question regarding his defection said "due to ideological and political differences with Najife and his regime, I defected and joined the Mujahideen."
    "Najib himself has several times said that without Soviet support his resf&iiae will not be able to survive. 4 he quoted,
    Seddiqutlah disclosed that N&iib is a brutal snd selfish man who even poisoned his father while he was sick in a hospital, because he was constantly criticizing NaUb and his regime.
    He further disclosed that when he was in West Germany some years ago he wanted to seek political asylum. But, he said, he was kidnapped by the KGB agents to E. Germany from where he was taken back   I
 to Kabul,                     1
     'Nsiib claims having      j
 strong army of half a million j
 but I think the figure is much Tower than what he says and the army's morale has      !
 dropped considerably. He Is   1
 now hared of any initiatives  j
 to prop up his crumbling      j
 regime, “                     j
     Sediqullah may seek       \
 political asylum abroad or    j
 stay in Pakistan with his     j
 family as they wish.          j
                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                           1
           TB kills 70 in Faryab province
   ACCORDING to reports and j a witness, over the past few \ months, 70 persons including j women, old men, and children died and hundreds of others are suffering monthly is Law lash, district of Faryab province, because of Tuberculosis,
    The witness, who is the local representative of the Mujahideen, says that, besides TB, about 100 to 1?0 children lost their lives due to measles, People in areas like Bate* Bara, Nistan and
 Angoorak are also affected by the TB disease.
    Both diseases are spreading to a frightening degree as there is no doctor and proper medicine to prevent them md most el the victims are quarantined fearing a further spread,” the witness said,
 Faryab Mujahideen have appealed to relief agencies for medical help in order to curb the diseases and prevent them fromsp reading-
i--------------------- AFGHANews  Vol4/Ho 16, August D,i988, Page 4
•f
I who's who in the Mujahideen
I
 Commander Abdul Hay
   ABDUL Hay Hsqjoo ^as born 36 years ago in a village called Dooabi belonging to Nahrin District of Baghlan province. His father,.
.■ Abdul Aziz., was a farmer I busy in agricultural ] activities in their native village.
     Abdul Hay picked up bis primary education in a | mosque school and then was admitted to Nahrin Lycee where he studied upto 10th grade. Afterwards, he went to Kabul and got admission in the Kabul Lycee of Art. specializing in the subject.
     After successfully completing the Lycee grades, he became a teacher Before the Soviet invasion he came in touch with the then
Islamic Movement and later at the beginning of the invasion joined the Mujahideen. He made his first trip to Pakistan with Ahmad Shah Masood in 1975-
   " In 1978 he was working as an assistant to the late Zabihuitah Khan who was then general commander of four provinces of Balfch, Kundue, Baghlan and Samangan,1' said Abdul jalil, his representative in Peshawar, Early in 1980, the leadership of Jami'at appointed him as the general commander in the Brighton province.
   A dynamic commander, he soon formed and organized with great effort. Mujahideen forces which later turned into one of the important
 organized fronts of Afghanistan with .strong military and
 administrations! discipline.
    He is also a noted figure among the commanders who formed the Supervisory Council of the North (SON) and Is an active member of its Supreme Council,
    Among the remarkable achievements of Commander Abdul Hay on the war fronts are the capture of the Nahrin’s 20th Military Division in 1986 followed by the fall of Andarab, Nahrin and Burka districts; complete take-over of all militia fortifications in Shashan and Tal Mir Ghazl areas belonging to Andarab district in 1987 and lately the assignment of combat units in the capture of Kaiafgan, Farkhar and Keran Menjan enemy strongholds.
    From iust the capture of Nahr in. he seized more than 3000 light and heavy weapons.
1
 Soviet minister reaffirms support
Kabul regime
                                                                                             for
   THE Soviet Foreign Minister flew into Kabul for an un-expected meeting with the Kabul regime leaders to reassure them of the Soviets' continued support.
   Announcing his visit to Kabul, the Soviet News Agency Tass did not reveal more details about the purpose of Shevardnadze s visit. A few days before his departure for. Kabul, the Soviet Foreign Minister met with the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Safeibzada Yaqoefe Khan in Moscow. He asked Pakistan to observe the Geneva accords and stop delivery of military supplies to the Afghan Resistance.
   The visit came at a time when the Soviet Union, according to the Geneva.
 accords, was supposed to withdraw half their troops from Afghanistan by the i 5th of August and the remainder by next February. Observers believe the visit, is partly aimed at reviewing and discussing the withdrawal deadline and reassure the regime of Soviet support.
    At the conclusion of his four day meeting with the regime officials, the Soviet Foreign Minister and the Communist regime issued a joint statement warning that appropriate action would be taken to stop interference in the Afghanistan's internal affairs/
    As the Soviets are about to pull out half their troops under the accord obligations, the regime is getting worried and becoming unstable in the
face of the growing Resistance grip on the capital. As a result, some Western countries have brought home their embassy staff in Kabul.               <
   Meanwhile, the Soviet      I
journal Red Star' writes that ?
the Kabul regime, in order to defend the capital against    !
the Mujahideen attacks, has formed a new military unit from the armed forces. The unit which is composed of military personnel; civilians . including volunteer women, has been given the task of protecting the Presidential Palace, Naiib's residence and the capital itself. This was as a result of the Mujahideens' escalation of fsequent attacks on Kabul from nearby positions.
                                                              AEGHANews Vol 4, Ho 16,
    AFGHANews
                PO Bex 264,Pesheimr-Ps3siSto Tsi: 41381
  EDITORIAL
 Formation of Islamic army
       THE decision of the Council of the North to form an | army in order to deal with the situation arising from Soviet troop withdrawal is a timely decision in the right direction, j In this, the fifth session, the Council of the North ! decided to form a guerilla army. In this meeting I representative commanders from ten provinces of the North { and North-Eastern region of Afghanistan had participated,
) The idea of the formation of a guerilla army is as old as guerilla warfare Itself. When the war reaches its final stages, the need to deal with the enemy with a large force is j felt. To capture enemy bases, to conquer cities, to cut the supply lines of the enemy effectively and to do all these things in an orderly fashion and maintain law and order t after the enemy's defeat, a trained army is needed, j The withdrawal of Soviet troops has created a new j military situation In the country. Before the Soviet ; withdrawal the war against the Soviets had a defensive I nature, in that type of warfare small groups could do the job ] effectively. As the Soviets started to pull out their troops ! the situation changed. Now the purpose is not to inflict j fosses on the enemy and struggle for the survival of the j Resistance; but to eliminate the enemy and take control of [ the country. To do this a new approach is needed.
       In the areas controlled by the Council of the North the primary steps to move from a defensive war to an offensive one has been taken in the course of several years of the struggle. Formation of the local, combat, mobile units and central forces were preliminary steps towards forming a regutar guerilla army.
       Now that the Mujahideen in the North-East, control a large territory in a very strategic area, having enough manpower and a good amount of resources, there are no practical difficulties Jn forming the Islamic army. The work of formation of such an army has already started and j effective training programs are under way,
I There also exist enough experienced fumor [ commanders.The Idea of the formation of an army by the Mujahideen has been criticised in some circles belonging to j political parties in the Resistance. The critic ism is based on j ignorance. They have not understood the phases of guerilla [ warfare and do not have any practical experience themselves. It should he added here that the formation of the guerilla army does not mean abandoning tactics of guerilla warfare completely. Formation of the army is an advanced stage of this type of warfare without which the final victory is not possible.
       Our advice to the critics of the idea of the formation of the Islamic army is that they should also take proper steps to organize themselves to make sure that the victory is quick and the country is run in a smooth way. jam Fat Is ready to share its organizational experience with them. It is never too late to learn.
                                          BTOM
August 15,1988, Page 5
                                      Embassy staff quit kabui
   SOME Western countries have decided to remove their staff and families from kabui in the wake of the worsening security situation and Mujahideen pressure on the capital.
   Among other Western countries, West Germany has recently announced that it will bring home most of its embassy staff and has also advised other countries to do so,
   Britain, foUo'wing Wast Germany’s decision, instructed its embassy personnel, including non-essential staff and dependents of British citizens numbering more than 50 to evacuate the capital because of ’©hat it described as a. ‘deteriorating security situation.”
   Britain has also recommended nationals of Australia and New Zealand to leave the country.
   Embassy evacuation started soon after the Mujahideen accelerated their operations around Kabul and targeted some of the Communist block embassies.
   Bulgaria was the first to move families of its embassy staff after a rocket exploded near the embassy injuring two of its diplomats.
   All these incidents point to the growing insecurity and instability of the Communist regime as the Russians are leaving and. as a result, more foreign missions will leave the country.
 wmmmmtmammmmammm
p...—----------- AEGHAffews Vol 4, No 16, kxigust 15,1968, Page 6
j Pakistan shoots down | violating Soviet aircraft
1 A Soviet-made | Afghan aircraft which j had penetrated 15 kilometers into Pakistan air space was intercepted and shot down by the Pakistan air force over North Waziristan on August 4th,
     The Pakistan's Defence Ministry has confirmed die report indicating that this ^sras the fourth \ aircraft shot down for [ violating Pakistani air space.
     The incident happened
  three days after a village was bombed by Soviet planes near ¥asiristan killing 17 people and injuring 27 others.
      The Defence Ministry added that this was the first plane shot down after the | Geneva accords for which both Pakistan and Afghanistan pledged a committment to avoid any kinds of covert and overt interferance in the affairs of each other.
      The incident coincided with the Communist regime s delivery of 60 protest notes to the United Nations Good Office Missions to Afghanistan and Pakistan fUNGOMAPi accusing
 Pakistan of violating the accord which were categorically rejected by the Pakistan government. On the contrary, Pakistan by shooting down the intruding aircraft proves the Kabul regime s blatant violation of the Geneva accords and termed the regime's protests as vague propaganda with no practical proof.
    Air space violation and bombing of Pakistan1* border areas started some times alter the Soviet invasion and has continued despite the Geneva accords. As a result, hundreds of Pakistani and Afghan refugees have been killed and their houses and tents destroyed.
     Refugee-inhibited areas of Chitral district in the North and Parachinar in the North-West near the Afghan border are the main bombing targets.
 Regime faces refusal into
 SAARC
 meeting
   THE puppet regime, in a letter to the Secretary-General of the seven-nation South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation | (SAARC), has j requested the regime s [ admission into their S meeting.
   Announcing the fifth meeting of the SAARC Council of Ministers, scheduled to he held on the 12th-13th of August at Kathmandu, the SAARC 1 Secretary General, Abu!
| Ahsan, said to the j journalists that the regime's request Is likely I to face- serious objections t because of the political
                                      situation in Afghanistan.
     The maj ori ty of the SAARC members opposed the Afghan regime’s admission on the grounds that Afghanistan is not a non-aligned country due to the presence and occupation of the Soviet ; Union.
                                      India is the only member state advocating
the regime's admission to the SAARC and for that purpose an Indian envoy w&s send by Rajiv at the end of July to press for action on the issue. But. the Secretary General argued that
’Afghanistan's situation has not changed politically.H
SET ASIDE fRm Tka,t^ir,Mqv/ OIDxou UKf |VtUSIAM ?