 TN THE NAME OF AfcLAH
AFGHANews
Published fortnightly by Jamiat Islami Afghanistan
 Vot 4. No 7
 April 1. 1988
           QIC asks Soviet leader to end occupation
  AH Alliance delegation asked the OIC foreign ministers s conference to recognize the interim government proposed by the Mujahideen. While the Conference demanded the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan, it did not approve Mujahideen's request.
  A seven-member delegation headed by Amir Hamza participated in the OIC foreign ministers conference held in Amman.
  The Mujahideen delegation informed the Conference about the situation in Afghanistan and the Mujahideen's position on the Geneva talks.
  One of the main issues under discussion at the conference was the recent Palestinian uprising in the occupied areas. The Mujahideen delegation supported the struggle of the Palestinians for the liberation of their homeland.
  The OIC suspended the membership of Afghanistan after the invasion of 1979 by the Soviet Union and since then the Afghan seat has been vacant.
  The OIC has supported the position of the Afghan Resistance in the past and passed many resolutions calling for the ’withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan but has failed to condemn Soviet invasion by name. One of the reasons for this hesitation is the presence of so-called radical Arab states in the Conference who have good relationship with the Soviets.
  It was not surprising for the Resistance to see that their demand for the recognition of the proposed interim govermnt was not accepted. Some members of OIC may have thought supporting the demand of the Resistance, while proximity talks still continue, would be destructive to political process in Geneva.
  The Kabul regime warned the OIC against discussing the Afghan issue in its Amman meeting, but it was ignored.
car-bomb defused
 A car bomb was defused in Parachinar Kuram agency two weeks ago. The town is situated close to the Afghan border.
Peace . prize winner ur^es .direct talks
   A Nobel prize winner          and
members of the European
Parliament called on Soviet leader Mikhael Gorbachev to negotiate with j the          Afghan i
Mujahideen in a petition published by “Le Monde" daily at the eve of resumption       of
Geneva proximity talks            on
Afghanistan.
  The petition, bearing { 500 signatures, asked Gorbachev to talk directly with those fighting for their land, identity, dignity and independence.
    The signatories included Argentina's 1980 Nobel peace prize winner Adolfo Perez     Esquivel,
former French Prime Minister Laurant Fabius and Soviet emigre       writer
Vladimir Bukovsky.
ftFGHfiNewa i?cl d, Uo April 1J98B, P36E 2
1
News
from the battlefields
V____    -  ■■  .              .  ..-                           /
HERAT
  MUJAHIDEEN from Jami'at killed ten soldiers and took prisoner five others in an area five kilometers north, of Ghooryan district.
  The attack, conducted by Sayed Ahmad Gurg, wes launched against a supply convoy of Communist forces on Eebruary 15- A Russian-made jeep was destroyed, and a motorcycle and eight Kaiashinkov rifles were seized.
  In another operation carried out against the enemy posts in the Vestern part of the city of Herat, 20 enemy soldiers were either killed or ’’sounded. Three Mujahideen were also killed in the operation which was launched on January 20.
NANGERHAR
   MUJAHIDEEN from Jamiat killed seven communist soldiers and ’wounded eight others -when they raided the 66th border force of the Kabul regime in Lai Poor sub-district on Eebruary 26.
  Three Mujahideen -were killed in the operation.
PER WAR
  SIX DR A soldiers ’were killed and four ethers taken prisoner by the Mujahideen from Jamiat in Bagram district in an attack against the enemy security post on February 7. Seven Kaiashinkov rifles ’were seized from the post.
  In a separate attack. Mujahideen destroyed 3 tanks and 2 trucks and killed or ’wounded five soldiers. The attack was carried out against an enemy supply convoy on the Slang highway on February 2.
BALKH
   SEVEN soldiers were cap-hired and 2 others were lulled when the Mujahideen attacked a DRA post in Tangi Soorab area near Meear city on January 28.
  Twelve Kalashmkove, one light machinegun, one R-109
communication set and one pair of field binoculars were seized
from the post.
The Mujahideen lost one man.
  A bomb planted by the
Mujahideen destroyed six trucks loaded with ammunition inside Mazar city on January 2S. The details ere not available but it is believed that casualties on the enemy side were heavy.
    THE TJN reporter «m
| Human          rights
i situation.         in
! Afghanistan has | called for the I withdrawal of soviet ■ I troops and formation j of a broad-based j government         in
! Afghanistan        to
  enable refugees to return to their country.
         Vhile visiting Pakistan, Dr. Felix Ermacora talked to many refugees. The refugees told him they were eager to return to Afghanistan but they would only do so after the Soviet forces have withdrawn and a government         is
  established which they can. trust.
    The UN Commission on Human Rights passed a resolution asking the Kabul regime to take-proper measures against violation of human right. Twenty nine countries voted for the resolution while seven others, including Soviet Union and India, opposed it.
     In his annual report. Dr. Ermacora mentioned receiving reports of cases of torture and killing in the areas under the control of the regime.
 i
RFGH*?H«»s Ud{ 4, fc Bpr H hi^US., PfiSE 3
AFGHANews
                                                                                                                                             i
l
New refugees tell of soviet
PO Box 264. Peshwar-Pakistan Tel: 41381
massacres
  ED I TOR IA L~
 L———-    . ... —..               , . ._—
      Proper plans insure victory
     VICTORY of the Resistance over the Communist regime is inevitable, but it will come through well-planned political and military work.
    If Genets agreement is signed., the Soviets will start to withdraw their forces within nine months. This •will leave the regime in Kabul and the resistance in the countryside. Since the Mujahideen are not ready to share power with the communists, the war for control of Kabul will continue.
    The regime will have the suppor t of Soviet troops in the first nine months ,but later it will have to struggle for its survival against the resistance forces.
     How long can the communist regime in Kabul survive without the support of the Red Army? Some people think a few days or months. The communists say that they will face no problems once the aid to the Resistance is cut.
     The communist regime has enough supplies of weapons and ammunition and can get more from the Soviets. The Red Army has built a lot of military installations which will be used by the puppets.
    The size of the puppet army has increased but the army is demoralised, the Communists count on the KGB-trained secret police and some other para-miiitary units but their numbers are limited.
    All the above is not enough for the survival of the regime. The missing factor is the lack of popular support for the regime. The regime is severe of this short-coming and tries to improve the situation with a so-called national reconciliation program and by abandoning communist programs but the mistrust between the people and the regime is so wide that bridging the gap is impossible.
    The regime is also divided between rival factions. Soviet attempts to unite them have failed so far. This division will hasten its fall in the event of a serious campaign by the Resistance.
      To destroy the regime the Resistance needs a detailed program of work. This program must be worked out from the realities of the post-Geneva situation. The program must be both military and political because the Resistance is facing a military and political problem. Elimination of the regime is a military job but to keep popular support on the Resistance side is a political task. (See next page)
  AN old man from Kundus says that Russians heavily bombed his village in Cherdara district about 40 days ego end killed or -wounded a large number of civilians. He and his family trekked 40 days to reach Pakistan.
  Jumauddin, 60, said that the Soviet attack was launched in retaliation for the shooting down of a Russian plane by Mujahideen near Kundus Airport.
  Juma is a resident of the village of Angoor Bagh in Chardara district, situated close to the Kundus Airport.
  He said " I lost three of my relatives in a Russian massacre few years ago. Two of my young sons fled to Iran after they deserted from the puppet army."
  Juma and his family ere living in Peshawar in a tent pitched beside the road. The old man complains of lack ox' food and proper clothes. He said to our reporter that he has riot fc-eeti helped by eny party or relief organisation .
   Chardara has been a witness of Soviets massacre of 400 people during a military operation. Since the area is flat and very close to the Soviet base , it is difficult for the civilians to retreat to the safe areas in case of a strong attack .. As a result of these massacres a large number of the residents of this district have become refugees in Pakistan.

flFGHfiKesra Uol 4, Ho 1, ter ii 1,1968, PR5E 4
  Editorial ...
    Establishment of a popular regime in Kabul after the communists' defeat is s. political iob, but preserving the system and maintaining lav and order is a practical military problem. Bringing national unity to the country needs a proper military and political planing.
      As far as military victory over the regime is concerned, the Resistance has gained enough experience. Although the Resistance will not get aid from outside and may face shortage of some -weapons end all sorts of ammunitions but proper planing and careful choice of targets -will compensate that shortages.
      The victory over the regime -sill be a gradual process. Being a mountainous country Afghanistan provides good opportunities for cutting supply lines. Shortages of supplies for the regime over a. period of weeks will lead to her suffocation.
    Capturing enemy garrisons will provide food and ammunition. Victories cause further demoralisation and desertion in the puppet army. This could be done Through co-ordinated attacks by trained people. Those fronts -which have developed the proper organisation and have gained experience in coordinated attacks -will play a leading role.
      Short-sighted evaluation of the situation and over-simplification of the methods could lead to disaster. It will be immature to think of defeating the regime through attacks by tribal armies which lack decipline and the necessary skills in modern warfare.
    The fall of the regime is a must but it can be done through proper planning, adoption of suitable tactics and in a coordinated attack.
             Human-ring around the embassy
    More than 1500 Swedes I formed a human-ring j around the Soviet | Embassy in Stockholm to ; protest against the Soviet I occupation of I Afghanistan, j Minister of Development j Aid of the Foreign Office, Mrs. Lena Kielm Valien, i wes the chief speaker in • the mass meeting held on I the occasion . She said that \ there was need tc continue pressure- on the Soviets to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan..
  She told the meeting that the government was determined to continue giving humanitarian assistance to Afghans affected by the war. She also promised massive efforts in reconstruction of Afghanistan after the country has been liberated.
  Jan Stoipe, the Deputy Chairman of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan.
 emphasised the need to continue supporting Afghans and putting pressure on the Soviets to leave Afghanistan.
  He criticized those who show* so much concern about what may happen after the liberation while during 9 years of occupation showed scant concern about, the suffering of Afghans
  The demonstration was sponsored by the Afghanistan Committee, Peace and Arbitration Committee, Sw'edish Church, and Central Labor Union.
  The appeal for the withdrawal of Soviet forces was signed by more than 100 organizations including major political parties.
  Demonstration against the Soviet invasion have became a yearly event on the occasion of Afghan new year, 21st March.
  This year the number of people participating in the demonstration was less than in previous years and the reason for that is the effect of the Soviet publicity about the withdrawal of their troops. Although the Soviets have not yet pulled their troops out of Afghanistan, some people think that the problem is over.
                                             Terrorists fire eight missiles to Peshawar
  EIGHT 10? mm missiles of Soviet making were fired by the terrorists from Khayber Agency which fell over two refugees' villages. a police colony and Pakistan         Eorest
                                             Institutes' residential area, on March 13 .
---------RFGHflHcws Uot 4, Ho 7, Rori! 1,1986, PS6E 5
News blackout follows Geneva agreement
  A tier's black-out will fallow a Geneva agreement between Pakistan and the puppet regime. The world will not know about what will happen to the Resistance and the refugees returning Afghanistan. The only news reaching the world will be propaganda presented by the Soviets.
  The present form of reporting the war will be finished. There ■will not be Resistance offices to help the reporters, nor refugees to speak about atroci ties end no officer of the Resistance to arrange trips for a fev dedicated journalists to report the war.
  Pakistan will be unwilling to provide assistance for the journalists to sneak into Afghanistan. It could be
  ABDUL Samad, known as Qsri Rahmactullah, was born in 1953 in a small village called "Esher. Toap“ in Khanabad district of Kundus province.
  Qari belongs to a religious family. His father was a poor- man who could barely meet family's needs.
  Qari was the eldest son of the family. He went to primary school in the Char Toot of Khanabad district and then joined the Takharisten religious school
interpreted as hostile act against the Soviets and their puppets.
  ¥ho will tell the world about what is happening? Vestern embassies may claim, to do part of the job by sending diplomatic reports. ¥ill they teil the truth after the agreement they have supported has failed to bring peace? Moreover, even if there are good intentions, there will not be free access to the truth.
  They mil have to rely on rumors and drat? conclusions from the communist publications and count the incoming and out-going convoys and artillery shells.
  Some journalists mil make full use of the opportunity to fly
(madrasa).
  "He was my good son helping me at home and not creating problems for his sister and brothers", said his mother living not? in Peshawar.
  Qai'i was still a student when communists took power aaid the Soviets invaded. He left the madrasa and came to Peshawar. After awhile he was sent to Afghanistan by the jami’at Islami party.
 First he accompanied late commander
Aeroflot or Air India and be given a guided tour by the Communists. There 'will not be such a thing as balanced and objective reporting.
  A Geneva accord will not bring peace to the country but the immediate effect would be to deprive the Afghans of the possibility of telling the truth to the rest of the world.
  Fho will inform the world about massacres, the use of forbidden weapons, torture in prison, participation of Soviet combat troops against the. strongholds of the Resistance, Sovietisation measures, famine, epidemics and the thousand other things which make news?
  Zabihuliah of Masar to Fanjshir. “That was indeed my first step in the practical life of Jehad. Those days the mountains were a kind of learning center for everyone", said Qari while visiting Peshawar.
   Qari is the chief j administrator of Jami'at S in Kudus.
   Later, he established j his base in the t mountains of Dara Batloo | ofAHAbad.
\ Qari is a part of the Council of the North. He is an honest and a commander who is respected by the people he works with.
Who ts who of Mujahideen
  Qari Rahmatullah
HFGHflHews Uol A, No 7, April 1 J 088, PfiGE 6
From the diary of Jehad
      An embarrassing argument proves a point
  ¥E had walked for the whole day. It was the second day of our trip, and ail of us were very tired.
  Assadullali was the chief of the group which included Feraydoon Ganjoor, an Iranian! journalist living in Switzerland, some merchants and our horsemen.
Pabrook
  At about 9 O'clock ve reached a place called Dehan-Pabrook. There was a tea house located at the junction of two rivers, a pleasant place to pass the night.
  Assad who was experienced in arranging things managed to find a sheep to prepare the dinner for the group. After offering our prayers we ordered green tea which is very relaxing after a long journey.
Kebab
  An hour later Assadullah called us by name to go to the side of the river to have our dinner. He had prepared Kebab which was delicious. The specially-prepared food was for a few people which included me and Ganjoor. The rest of the group were supposed to take their dinner inside the teahouse.
  ¥hen we returned to the teahouse the rest of the group were
 protesting at the way they had been treated. The argument between Assadullah and those who had remained in the teahouse continued for some times. The horsemen were shouting at Assadullali and were accusing him of misusing his position as an official of Jami'at political party to get better food.
 Sleeping bag
  The situation was very embarrassing because of the presence of a guest from Iran. I thought the argument about food and shouting at each other might give the wrong impression to Ganjoor about the people of Afghanistan and the cause. I took my sleeping bag and retreated to a spot close to the river not to hear what was going on.
  In the morning when I woke up, 1 was still feeling embarrassed because our people had fought each other over food in front of a guest from Iran.
 Ganjoor
  I decided to leave earlier not to face tire guests. After an hour walk along a narrow valley I saw Ganjoor trying to reach me. 1 tried to walk faster to. keep distance with him but was tired and could not go fast. When we were at a close distance.
 Ganjoor said: “Ishaq, what happened last night was a good thing." I was surprised. What was good about argument over food in front of a guest ? He went on to say that last night's argument, showed a positive change in the way of thinking of ordinary men in Afghanistan.
  He said that in the past the ordinary people in Afghanistan had been afraid of defending themselves against government officials.
 But last night ordinary men were protesting against a man who had an important position in the party and demanding equal treatment. Now they are not willing to stay silent if they saw somebody doing wrong even if he had an important position, he said.
 Wisdom
  I was impressed by the wisdom of our guest and started to feel better after anight of em barrassment.
  Indeed, the communist coup of 1978 and then the Soviet invasion of 1979 gave an opportunity to the common people to liberate themselves from the tyranny of oppressive institutions and this profound change will shape the future system of government in Afghanistan.
ftFGHfiHswe Uoi Ho T, fipril 1.,f938., PftGE. ?

han Year
  BEFORE the war Afghan He v Y ear was a happy occasion which was celebrated by the people and government. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan ended those celebrations.
  New year marks the begining of spring and the start of farming activities. The first day of the year was a national holiday to permit everybody to participate in the activities arranged for the day.
  Sport contests, farmers march past and cattle show were arranged to mark the happy occasion. Families gave food to the poor and prayed for the souls of those who had died in
   Soviets have
  More than one million Afghans have been killed, a third of the population are refugees abroad, and 11 % are displaced inside Afghanistan.
  These statistics were given in a Swiss study cn the damages of the war in Afghanistan, carried out by Professor Marek Sliwinski of the University of Geneva.
  Nine percent of the Af ghan population (1.24 million people) have been killed in the war, Sliwinski estimated. Forty-six percent of the deaths have been caused
 the past year. Celebration of the new year was a tradition but some people gave it a religious color by raising flags on shrines.
  Gne such big gathering took place in Mszar Sharif near the tomb of Hasrat Ali, the fourth calif of Islam. People from different parts of the country and some from Iran and Pakistan participated in the ceremonies.
  All these happy moments belong to the pre-war time. After the war began these functions have not taken place. The reason is simple. The country is divided between occupied and liberated areas, and movement
  by aerial raids, 33% have been killed by artillery fire and 3% by mines.
   "The Afghan Resistance have no aircraft nor heavy artillery, which are almost exclusively in the hands of the Soviets," Professor Sliwinski underlined.
   The report states that the Afghan civilian population have made up at least 80% of the victims of bombardments.
   Professor Sliwinski said that the provinces of northern
 between the two areas is very limited and dangerous. Most people do not participate in the functions the communist government stages, and arranging such occasions in the liberated areas could be very dangerous due to enemy air attacks. In the past Soviets have bombed religious and social gatherings end lulled many people.
  Moreover, the loss of about one million people and displacement of several more millions have disrupted family life in the country. An occasion like the new' year will bring to mind the sad memories of loss of friends and relatives. There is no desire among the people to celebrate these happy occasions.
  Only the withdrawal of Soviet troops and the return of peace in the country will give a chance to the people of Afghanistan to resume their traditional way of life.
 Afghanistan, bordering the USSR, were the areas most touched by the war.
  Equally serious as the loss is the disintegration of Afghan society by rural population displacements and the desertification, without a doubt irreversible in certain areas, reported professor Sliwinski.
  The rural population has fallen from 83% to 23%. whereas the urban population has passed from 15% to 24%. and even tripling in the capital of Kabul.
killed one million Afghans
INTKE NaME OF ALIAS
 Published fortnightly by Jami'at Islam! A/gbaoiaiam
Vol 4. No 8                                      April 15. 19S8
         Mujahideen reject Geneva agreement
   THE GENEVA agreement was signed on April M by the puppet regime and the government of Pakistan in an attempt to bring peace in Afghanistan. The Resistance says it will refect any agreement which it is not part of and will continue its armed struggle.
   According to the agreement Pakistan and Afghanistan will not Interfere in each others internal affairs; Afghan refugees will return voluntarily to their coumtry; Soviet forces will leave Afghanistan in nine months and the United States and Soviet Union will guarantee the accord.
   The Geneva indirect talks between Pakistan and the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul which have continued for more than five years were taking place under the auspices of the UN. The Afghan Resistance has been rejecting the Geneva proximity talks since the start. The Resistance reasoned that the talks were taking place between irrelevant parties and demanded direct talks with the Soviet Union.
   When asked to comment about the Geneva treaty the spokesman of the Alliance said; “We will not abide by
any agreement which we are not part of'
   The two issues which were raised in the last round of talks were the symmetry issue raised by the American Government and the idea of the formation of a broad-based govenment tabled by the Governemt of Pakistan.
   On the symmetry issue, it was decided that the two superpowers could provide arms to both sides of the conflict but the signing of the accord by Pakistan will make it practically impossible to give any aid to the Resistance. Therefore, the statement on symmetry will only help the puppet regime in Kabul which will recieve arms from the USSR and the Reagan administration in its domestic politics.
   The Reistanee will not be able to receive aid from outside because there is no way to transport to the country.
   It is believed that the symmetry issue was raised to make the agreement acceptable to the US Congress and helping the resistance was not its primary purpose. The issue of a broad-based government raised by Pakistan was dropped from the formal agreement. To sweeten the pill, the UN
mediator, Mr, Cordovez in his personal capacity will try his best to help Afghans to form a broad-based government after the Geneva accord has been signed.
   The Resistance source believe that the possibility of any progress in forming a broad-based government acceptable to the Resistance through the private efforts of Mr. Cordovez is small.
  Russians
   capture
    oilfield
 THE SOVIETS have recently captured an oilfield and established new posts in-QaiSar district close to the Afghan-Soviet border,
   Khan Merza, a Jami'at commander in the area, said in an interview that an oil well which was drilled in As bab-e-Kahf area of Qaisar during Daud's regime came under control of the Mujahdieen after the April coup of 1975.
   About six weeks ago,
 Soviet troops captured the area and established permanent posts.
   According to Khan Mirza, the Soviets have started exploration work to develop the well and exploit it.
   North Afghanistan has large deposits of oil and gas. The Soviets got the monopoly of exploration In the area during the King s rule.
 It is believed that the Soviets pay a much lower price than the International market for the Afghan gas.
 AFGHANsvs Volt No6. April 15.1986, Page2
 Herat
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from JaflU'at captured eight regime security post In Darb Malik area close to the city of Herat on March 19.
    The Mujahideen destroyed one tank and captured an armoured car. two heavy machine guns, one mortar. 30 Kaiashinkov rifles and seven communication seta.
    Twenty seven enemy soldiers were tilled and some others wounded. The Mujahideen captured 15 DRA soldiers.
    One Mujahid was killed and 10 others wounded.
 Baghian
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jam J at attacked a DRA unit In N&wbahar area of Andarab district killing eight militiamen and taking prisoner ten others on March 27.
    The arms seized from the posts were: one mortar, three heavy machine guns, 16 Kaiashinkov rifles, one R-105 communication set and some ammunition and foodstuff.
    The attack was launched by the Mujahideen from the central forces of the Council of the North and the local units.
    Commnader Nazar Mohammad was killed in the operation.
   Thirty militiamen were taken prisoners by the Mujahideen in Kaftar Khana in the lower parts of the Andarab valley on March 29.
   The Mujahdideen also captured four heavy machine guns, one mor tar and 25 Kaiashinkov rifles In the operation.
   Twenty DRA militiamen joined the Mujahideen bringing 2 heavy macnine guns and 15 Kaiashinkovs on March 25. The militiamen had contacted Commander Abdul Rawoof in Ghazmaraq village.
 Badakhshan
     SOVIET helicopter killed 17 and injured 25 others when it bombed a mosque in Jurm district of Badakhshan province on April first-eight Russian gunships fired rocket and dropped bombs at Ferghamoro village when the people had gathered in a mosque to say Junta prayers. The mosque was hit by rockets fired from the enemy helicopters killing and wounding those praying.
   The news ol bombardment was brought by Zahiruddin, 50, who has come to Pakistan to be treated. He was injured in the same incident.
   Zahiruddin said that as a result of the heavy bombardment of the village a large number of cattle were also killed. According to Zahiruddin, the Soviet aerial
 activities against the Mujahideen have increased in the past few months. He thinks it is a reaction to the new organizational restructure carried out by Aryanpoor and commander Sayed Najmuddin in the valley of Jurm.
 Far ah
     IN an ambush against an enemy military column, the Mujahideen destroyed two armoured cars in Tayoosak area about 20 kilometers from the provincial capital of Farah on March 6.
    The convoy was moving from jaween district to the provincial capital when it was attacked by the Mujahideen. Twenty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded during the operation.
    In retaliation, the enemy bombed some villages near the ambush site and destroyed some houses.
 Helmand
      SOME posts were destroyed and two tanks were set ablaze when the Mujahideen attacked Sangeen district on March 22, More than 20 enemy troops were killed in the operation and 12 others wounded.
    The Muiahdideen captured one iruck. seven heavy machine guns and sixteen Kaiashinkov rifles.
    Three Mujahideen were kilted and 19 others sustainded injuries In the operation.
    The enemy sent reiniorcements and the fighting between the two sides still continues.
 Logar
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jami at shot down a Russian jet in Dashte Khaka while it was bombing the area, on March 31 195S. The report is
AFGBAHe** Volt Ho8, April 15,1988, Pegs3
Film review__________
Massoud:
Portrait d un chef afghan
confirmed by Fazluiiah, the Chief Jamiat Commander in Logar province South of Kabul.
 Kabul
     THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jaml'at exploded a bomb in the modern part of the city of Kabul as a result of which 11 persons including seven Russians were killed and more than 10 cars were destroyed.
   The bomb which went off at noon on March 28, was a four-kilogram explosive planted in a car belonging to a high-ranking government official.
   Another bomb also exploded in a shop used by the regime secret police in the same part of the city but no details were available.
 Jegdalik front
     THREE tanks and one armoured car were set on fire and 1$ Russian soldiers were killed and ten others wounded when the Mujahideen attacked a Russian supply convoy going from Kabul to Jalalabad In Tangi Abreshlmi on March 28, 1988.
   As a result of fighting the highway was blocked for one day.
 Parwan
    A DRA military convoy which was trying to rescue a besieged garrison in Ghoorband was attacked by the Mujahideen on March 28. 1988. Forty enemy soldiers were killed and ten tanks and trucks were destroyed.
   The enemy's advance was checked In Chinar Dara area Thw Mujahideen from Jamiat and Hezb took part in the attack. Jamiat lost one man and two other Mujahideen were injured.
    CHRISTOPHE de Ponfillys documentary on Commander Massood is a well-directed one which gives a good picture of Massood s life and his achievements in organizing a relatively effective resistance force in the North,
    The director has traveled three times into Afghanistan to complete his documentary. A8 he himself admits it is not easy to cover Afghanistan. "It needs a tough cameraman to cover that tough land", he said. For Christophe such a trip meant a walk of hundreds of kilometers across the Hindu Kush. Christophe is right because the height of the lowest pass on the way to Panjshir is not less than dOOO meter.
    in Vietnam journalists travelled by helicopter, in Lebanon, journalists used balconies of the hotels to film the war. ’But in Afghanistan you have to go on foot or on horse to do the job", said Christophe in his film.
    Although this portrait says little about the personal life of Massood. it shows him well enough as a Mujahideen Commander.
    He shows his Mujahideen (Muslim freedom fighters), his training camps, his bases, his central units and his general ability to organize the war.
     Christophe follows Massood from his original base in Panjshir to the North of the Hindukush. He explains his military operations, particularly the last three which resulted in government garrisons being
captured by Mujahideen from Jamiat.
   Christophe talks in his documentary about Massood's new political Initiative, the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) as a positive development in Jehad.
   He films the civilian plight in the areas where Massood works. He also shows how an Innocent child, wounded by a Russian toy mine, is dying in front of his camera. He shows the beauty ol the Panjshir valley in his first trip in 1981 and shows it when it has been totally destroyed by repeated Russian bombardments. He shows in his documentary faith, courage, atrocities, organization and hope combined together.
   His documentary is not just Massood's portrait but can be considered as a portrait of the North as well.
                                               League supports Afghans
   MUSLIM World League has said that the Mujahideen must form an integral part of any settlement,
  In a statement issued by the 9th General Assembly of the Muslim World League, the total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces has been demanded.
   At the end of four-day congress, it was stated that Afghans should be allowed to determine their future.
 AFGHANI Vol 4. No 8, April 15,1983, Page 4
 AFGHANews
 PO Box 264, Peshawar-Pakistsn Tel: 41381
Editorial

    THE GENEVA agreement which -was signed by the government of Pakistan and the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul dees not bring peace. The war for the total liberation of Afghanistan will enter a new phase after a possible with<3rawal of the Soviet troops.
    The agreement in Geneva has four instruments. Pakistan and the puppet regime mil pledge not to interfer in each others affairs; refugees are supposed to return to Afghanistan voluntarily; the Soviet Union mil withdraw its forces within 9 months and the USSR and USA guarantee the agreement. The Geneva accord is the result of more than five years efforts by UN mediator to bring about a settlement in Afghanistan.
    The agreement does not address the real issues and it is assumed that by withdrawing Soviet forces in return for stopping aid to the Resistance the issue mil be solved.
    The trouble in Afghanistan started in 1978 when a group of communists seised power through a military coup. They started to impose a communist system in the country. The people of Afghanistan resisted the regime and when it was about to be overthrown the Soviets intervened to save their friends.
    This shows that the roots of the problem is defiance to the communist regime by the people of Afghanistan and the Soviet's immediate aim at the time of the invasion was the imposition of the communist regime. The solution to the problem of Afghanistan will be through giving the right for self-determination to the people of that country end this has been recognized by the UN resolutions which forms the basis of the Geneva agreement.
    Despite repeated demands by the international community that Afghans must be given the right for self-determination, the Geneva agreement ignores that pivotal issue.
    The signing of the Geneva agreement is a practical admission by the signators and guarantors that the Kabul regime is entitled to decide about the future of Afghanistan.
    The practical implication of this is the Soviets' achievement of their aim (imposition of the Kabul regime) through apolitical process, on the people of Afghanistan, something which they had f ailed to achieve in the battlefield.
    Thanks God the Afghan Resistance can not be' blamed for this failure because it was never given a chance, to play the political role it was supposed to. The Resistance has repeatedly rejected any accord
                                                                                                       (see page 5)
    'The tragedy of Afgjeanistan' is the title of a new book which discusses the social, cultural and political impact of the Soviet invasion.
    The book is based on the proceedings of a seminar arranged in December 1935 by the Swedish institute of International Affairs on the theme "Afghanistan, a threatened culture." In the seminar both Afghan and Western scholars presented their papers on different aspects of Afghan life and their culture both at home and in exile.
    The editors. Bo Huldt and Erland Tartsson, state that the book aims to present a broad picture of what war, resistance and exile have meant for Afghanistan and for its agriculture. As it becomes increasingly difficult to get reliable information from Afghanistan this collection provides a valuable testimony to a national culture under siege.
    The book is published in USA by Croom Helm in association with Melhverjnc. 29 West 35th Street, New York, NY 19001.
                                         Soviets remove pipelines
SOVIETS haw removed a fuel pipeline which was exteneded from the Soviet border to Shindand air base in the West of the country.
AFGHANI Vol 4, No 8. April 15.. 1588, Page?.
Editorial ...
 reached behind its back.
   The Soviet forces may leave under the terms cf the agreement but there is clear evidence that they want their puppet in powr to ensure their influence in Afghanistan.
   The Geneva treaty trill not block future Soviet interference in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union could continue its direct and indirect intererence making use of hundreds of treaties they have signed with the communist regime in Afghanistan.
 About a broad-based government that Pakistan tabled in the last round of talks, it was agreed that Mr. Cordcvez, the UN mediator, in his private capacity ■rill help bring about an understanding between Afghans.
   The past experience of the Resistance -with Mr.
 Cor doves and the developments after the Geneva agreement indicate that no positive outcome can be expected from these efforts.
   Since the Mujahideen can not form a coalition government with the Communists, and the Soviets will not back off from supporting their Communist friends after getting the recognition of the regime and blocking tiie Mujahideen's access to the outside world, continuation of the war is inevitable. This decision is imposed by the Soviets, the puppets and the UN-sponsored agreement in Geneva. It is a difficult decision but there is no alternative. Who can surrender to a Communist regime which has brought all this tragedy to Afghanistan? Who will share power with the communists who are not ashamed cf ushering the Red Army into their country?
   In choosing the way of armed struggle, we will face great problems. There will be no way for the Resistance to get humanitarian assistance in the form of food, clothes, medicine etc to help million of needy people in the liberated areas. The Geneva agreement will end all sort of cross border operations from Pakistan From Iran there are not enough chances of starting such programs.
   Military supplies will be a problem too. The positive symmetry that the superpower have signed can not be applied to help the Resistance.
 The P.eagan administration raised the issue under pressure from the US Congress, but after Pakistan has signed the agreement there will be no way to send military or non-military aid to the Resistance. Therefore, it seems that the issue of symmetry was a domestic issue for the Americans, having nothing to do with, support for Afghans. The possibility of a secret understanding between the US and USSR on the issue could not be ruled out.
   Despite all odds the Afghan Resistance will start a new phase in the armed struggle with, the strong belief that the final victory is theirs It has the ability to defeat the puppet regime end regain the total, freedom of Afghanistan. Geneva has failed to gain the legitimate right of the Afghans and the use of force is the only way left to them.
 Afghans play in exile
    Ex -members of the National Volleyball Team of Afghanistan haw started to play sender the name of 'Afghan Club' in Peshawar. They haw participated in a number oi contests in. the North-Vest Frontier Province and won many of the games.
    Abdul Basir, one of the club members said Afghan refugees show great interest in playing the games and watching them.
 Establishment of the Afghan Club is a sign of that interest.
    He said that the slab has 12 players most of whom were members of the Afghan National Team who fled the coantry after the Russian invasion
    About the future plans of the club, Basir said:
 “there is a chance of expanding oar sports programs if the Mujahideen parties provide as with sport facilities and financial assistance. Ve need the encouragement of the leaders of the Mujahideen to improve and expand our activities."
    Basir is of the opinion that the Mujahideen parties should encourage all sport activities like wrestling, football, basketball and Buskaehi etc.
    Concerning the acid Yemenis of the Afghan Club he said: “ Ve had a series of tournaments with provincial and local teams of the S.V.F.P 3nd were able to win two cups during the current year.
    The latest volleyball tournament was played among several teams in Hangoo and the Afghan Club won the first prise.
 AFGHANews Vol 1 No 8. April 15,1988, Pegs 6
 Who ’s who of Mujahideen
      Commander Haji Khan
            Baluch
    MOHAMMAD Khan, known as Haji Khan Baluch, was horn 44 years ago in a village called Teerpul in Kohsan district of Herat located on the iran-Afghan border.
    ‘His father was a poor farmer from the Rakhshani tribe of the Baluchis*, said bis representative in Peshawar.
    Mohammad Khan's mother died when he was about six years old. Mohammad was sent to the nearest mosque by his father to learn the holy Quran. He was young when his father died, Mohammad had to take care of the family. He used to work day and night on a piece of land the family owned.
    "Mohammad was respected by others in his neighborhood because he was honest. Despite his own bad economic situation, he tried to be helpful to everyone", said a friend of Haji. He said ‘When Tar aid took power, the beads of minority groups were called to Kabul. We sent Mohammad Khan to bring us news from Kabul. He came back with one message. We have to fight. Taraki is a communist and a puppet of the Soviets, He formed a small group of about (0 people, They were attacking government posts and offices In the city at night to get arms."
    in 1981 he met with Ismael Khan at Doshakh mountains in Herat and joined the Jaml'at organization, in 1983 Haji Khan was appointed as the head of Kohsan district. He
 established his main bases in Hajiahad and Kakari and K hat an,
    Baluchis are an important minority group in Afghanistan living on the South-Western borders of the country in three provinces of Herat, Neemroo2 and Farah. They have close ties with Baluchis living on the other side of the Afghanistan border, in iran and Pakistan, A small Baluchi community is also living in the Soviet Union in a place called Sarakhs, close to the Afghan border. There is very little information about them.
    Except for some Shla Baluchis who live in Zabul of Iran, others are all Suni Muslims, The majority of them speak in Baluchi while the rest speak in a dialect called Brawl,
    Baluchis are divided into various tribes like Rakhshani, Brawl, Sanjarani, Gurgej, Narwee, Reegi and Durani. Out of these groups Rukhshanl and Sanjaranee are in a majority and all of them have good relationships with each other.
    The Soviets knew the strategic importance of the area that the Baluchis iive.In the past they have encouraged separatist movements among the Balochis of Pakistan and Iran and the governments of Afghanistan, Indudding the King, Daud and the present communist regime helped the Soviets in their designs. The Soviet purpose was to creat a united Baluchi state with close ties with Moscow. Such a state will give a strategic foothold for the Soviets at the
 mouth of Gulf. But the Baluchis of Afghanistan took arms and fought the Soviet occupation of their country bravely.
    Baluchis, especially in the areas of Herat and part of Neemroz have frustrated the enemy by actively participating in jehad. They formed their groups in various Islamic organizations and produced good group commanders like Ebrahim Khan. Wadood Khan, Saifuilah. Noor Mohammad and Haji Khan Baiuch.
 Infighting
  among
  militias
    ARMED clashes have continued over the past few months between DRA militiamen in Enjeel district East of the city of Herat.
    Eyewitnesses say a militia group headed by Fasel Ahmad is fighting with another militia group led by Mohammad Arif. Fazel's group is supported by the puppet army while Arifs band is helped by the Russian 4th Armored Division stationed In Herat. Both sides support their allies by giving arms, ammunition and even tanks.
    The two sides have suffered heavy casuattie.
AFGKANe^s Voll Ho8, April 15,1988, Psge7
 Spiritual man frees ! communist pilot
 j
       A DEAL between the Mujahideen and the Communist regime resulted in the freedom of a religious scholar in Herat last summer.
       Mawatavi Ghuiam Mohammad a religious scholar and an active member of Jaini at Fslami s party who was serving a 15-year prison term in Herat was released last summer when the Mujahideen agreed to release a Communist pilot whom they had captured.
       The Mujahideen captured the communist pilot, Sakhi Mawlafrom Kunar, when they shot j down his jet. He was a | member of the communist I party and his brother was a | police officer in Balkh I province.
       The pilot's brother | wanted to get him released.
 | He contacted Ismael Khan j the Chief Commander of Jami at in Herat. Ismael Khan promised to set him i free in return for the j release of Mawlavi GhuUtn i Mohammad.
       The council of the i ministers of the regime j approved the deal and on July 8, 1987 the two men ! were exchanged in EnjeeS j district.
       Mawlavi Ghuiam Mohammad who was captured by the regime forces 4 years ago was tortured in the jail to reveal the identity of his friends and the nature of his activities. He said “I was given electric shocks three times and sleep deprivation for some days."
           According to Mawlavi Ghuiam ther e were 817 political prisoners in
 Herat jail most of whom were religious scholars.
    The Prisoners receive a food allowance of Afgs. 900 ($2.5) per month which was very little. The relatives of the prisoners were allowed to meet them every 15 days and they helped the prisoners.
    Since Mawlavi s families had become refugee in Iran he had no body to meet him.
 He received help from Ismael Khan indirectly.
    One day before his freedom, his son. his brother-in-law and nine other other Mujahideen were killed when their truck hit a land mine. The incident did not give the old man a chance to celebrate his freedom.
    Mawlavi Ghuiam Mohammad is married and has eight children, four sons and four daughters who are living as refugees in Iran. Before the war he severved as a teacher in the religious school in the city of Herat for 27 years. He says he Is proud that his students have played Important roles in the Jehad against the Soviets.
                                                                                         Russian bomb killed seven
       SEVEN persons. 2 Pakistanis and 5 Afghans, were killed by a bomb blast in Sadda area of Kurram agency.
   The bomb was planted underneath a chicken crate in a shop and it exploded at 10 o'clock in the morning of March 13.
   It is believed the bomb was planted by agents of the Soviet-backed Kabul regime.
  forbids
 growing
   poppy
   JAM I’AT It land's leader has admired tlie efforts of a Teshkea commander in banning the grovth of poppy the area.
  Prof. Rabbani has sent a letter to Sayed Mahyuddin, a Jemi'at commander in Teshkan of Keshm thanking him for the Trtse decision. In his letter he has promised to help the poor people of the area as much as he can to compensate for the loss of income due to the ban.
  Commander Mahayuddin told this to a visiting member of Jami'e.t's Political Office last summer.
  "Despite the poor economic conations of the people ve have taken this decision because it is harmful to out" society end thu rest of the trorld", he said.
  In some parts of Afghanistan poppy has been grovn and used to make medicine. Some people 'were misusing opium and vere addicted to it. Addiction to opium is considered a sin end the Religious scholars and people concerned about the physical and spiritual life of the society have alvays fought against opium misuse.
  The Production of heroin from opium is a modern phenomenon and takes place outside the borders of Afghanistan.
------------- APGHANews V& 4, NoB, April 13, I960, Page 6
          Holy month of Ramadan showers Muslims with divine bless
      RAMADAN, which starts sometime next week, is a special month for Muslims, it is the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calender. It is the month of light in which the Holy Quran was first revealed in order to guide mat > out of the darkness or ignorance, selfishness and oppression to the heights of consciousness, self-sacrifice and justice.
      The month of the Quran s revelation has been set aside by Islam as a month to exemplify the values taught by the Quran, it is the month in which every adult Muslim (with certain exceptions) must fast from dawn to dusk.
      Islamic fasting means : avoidance from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse. It also means abstinence from using substances which bring
    The Soviet-hacked regime in Kabul considers the holding of recent elections in the occupied areas of Afghanistan a victory but the Resistance rejects it as a political macoeuvef with no real substance
    Parliamentary ! elections started on April 5 and continued for 10 days.
    The Kabul regime's election is part of its political program to gain credibility at home end abroad. The Resistance
changes in one s mood, such as cigarette and snuff, it also means abstinence from doing, saying, hearing and seeing evil and vain acts, talk and conflicts.
    Fasting takes man out of the darkness of ignorance by strengthening in him the highest form of consciousness: God-consciousness. For a Muslim, God-consciousness forms the bases for self-consciousness, social-consciousness and world-consciousness. Fasting puts man in constant touch with the Supreme Being, the creator, and the truth.
    Fasting takes man out of the darkness of selfishness by teaching him self-denial for the sake of higher goals and values. Sacrificing the enjoyment of material life for the sake of God should go
has rejected the elections and celled it a political manoeuver to deceive world opinion.
   Independent observers do not give much credit to the elections because five million Afghans live outside their country, the regime does not control a major portion of the countryside and elections are not democratic.
   The presence of more than 113,000 Soviet , soldiers in the country also creates serious doubts concerning the claims of the regime that the
beyond the days of Ramadhan. Humility before God should translate into humbleness before fellow human beings.
     Fasting takes man out of the darkness of oppression by making him a morally-refined human being. Suffering from hunger wilt make the fasting person more sympathetic towards his deprived fellows. Avoidance of evil and vain acts, talks and conflicts will nourish righteous actions, righteous speech and righteous thought.
     God-consciousness and God-fearing will bring about such an attitude that the Muslim will neither oppress nor will he tolerate being oppressed.
   May Allah enable ail the Muslims to hold such a fast during the month of Ramadhan as we are commanded to and as we are supposed to.
election were free end
fair.
  The regime claims that besides the People Democratic party <the ruling party) some other newly-created parties have also participated in the election. But it is believed that these parties ere not independent end have been created to give a multi-party image to the political system created by the Soviets in Afghanistan.
   All these parties which were created a few months ago support the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and accept the leading role of the PDPA in running the country.They are members of the National front of the regime. *
          Regime holds election