 Vol 7, No 15
 August 1,1991
   , The Mujahideen or Jami'at scored a major victory when they captured the enemey garrisons in Zebak and Eshkashim, two Badakhshan districts situatied close to the Soviet border. Zebak was liberated on July 15 and Eshkashim fell to the Mujahideen five days later. The Mujhaideen attacks against these garrisons were led by Commander Sayyed Najmuddin Waseq.
     The attack on Zebak was launched on July 13. On the first day, 12 outposts of the garrison were captured. Due to a flooding river on the way of the Mujahideen, they postponed their attack On the garrison for one day. The attack on the garrison began at dawn of July 15 and by 7:30 in the morning, the garrison and its remaining outposts were captured.
     The enemy had stationed about 630 men in the garrison and its security posts. Thirty six enemy troops were killed in the attack and 170 were captured. The report does not give any information about the remaining soldiers. They might have managed to escape to the Eshkashim, a town about 30 kilometers north of Zebak on the Soviet border.
     About 700 Mujahideen took part in the attack which was launched from several • directions. The Mujahideen's casualties were light The following items were seized from the enemy:
     •Mortars (120 mm): 2 •Mortars (82 mm): 2 •Grenade launchers (AGS-17):4 ■ZPU-1 (14.5 mm gun): 1 ■P.K machineguns: 9 •Kalashnikov rifles: 200 •RPG-7 rocket launchers: 6 •Tank:l
     They also captured large quantities of ammunition of different types.
     The Mujahideen continued to ad-
 • Cmdr. Sayyed Najmuddin Waseq
 vance towards Eshkashim and oh July 19, captured six outposts of the town . Eshkashem fell to the Muajhdeen on July 21.
      The Mujahideen captured the following airms and ammunition from Eshkashim:
      •BMPs (Infantary Comabat Vehicle): 8
      •BM-21 rocket launchers: 2 •Trucks: 3
      •Mortars (120 mm): 3 •Mortar (82 mm): 1 •P.K.T heavey machineguns: 3 •Kalashnikov rifles: 700 •Carabine and 303 bolt-action rifels: 2000 •Ammunitions of different types: 600,000 rounds
    The Mujahideen have taken 600 of the regime soldiers and militiamen as prisoners. Twenty regime officers managed to cross the river into the Soviet Union.
    Enemy planes, flying from Soviet territory, continue to bomb Zebak and Eshkashim.
    Liberation of Zebak and Eshkashim takes place after the fall of Khwaja, Ghar, repulsion of the enemy attack on Khanabad and military operations in Salang and Jabulseraj. These operations are launched according to the plan adopted by the Sixth Meeting of the Supervisory Council and within the plan of the Council of Commanders agreed upon last year.
                 The liberation of Zebak and Eshkashim is an important event for the fol lowing reasons:
            • It enables the Mujahideen to transport goods from Pakistan to Badakhshan on vehicles. Part of the road is built by Jami'at and part by Soviet troops during their occupa tion of the area. The road between Zebak -- and Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, was built before the war. This road will help to bringing in military and humanitarian supplies to the north.
• The operation was planned and executed by Sayyed Najmuddin. It is an in dicative of quantitative and qualitative change iii military abilities. of the Mujahideen in this area. Najmuddin has also established a civil administration in the areas he controls and pays close attention to provision of security, education and reconstruction work. He will run die newly liberated areas smoothly. Since he works closely with the Supervisory Council, this victory plac es him in good position to play an im portarit'role in future military developed To page (7)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 15, August 1,1991, page©
IThe Battlefields
 Herat Province
    In eight days of fighting in Zindajan and the city of Herat, the Mujahideen have killed or wounded more than 230 enemy soldiers and officers and destroyed 21 tanks and trucks. Here are the details of the Mujahideen's operations reported by Commander Ismail Khan:
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 7:
    •The Mujahideen killed six enemy soldiers and wounded six in Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan. Two Mujahideen were also killed in the attack.
    •Seven enemy soldiers were killed by landmines in Dasht-i-Zindajan.
    •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy bases around Zindajan with ground to-ground rockets killing or wounding 20 enemy soldiers.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 8:
    •An enemy tank was destroyed and its crew were killed when it hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen in Qala-i-Naw area of Zindajan.
    •An enemy armored car was destroyed by a landmine in Qala-i-Mulki killing its crew.
    •Three enemy soldiers were killed and two were wounded when the Mujahideen ambushed them in Langar area of Zindajan.
    •Twenty enemy soldiers were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their bases with rockets west of Zindajan. One Mujahid was killed in the attack.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed one tank, killed two soldiers and wounded three in Qorog area of Zindajan.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 9:
    •Two soldiers were killed and three were wounded by landmines, planted by the Mujahideen, in Qala-i-Raig of Zindajan.
    •The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers and wounded several in Qala-i-Qoroq and Qala-i-Ezat, using
 ground-to-ground rockets.
     •Two enemy tanks were destroyed close to Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan by landmines killing their crew.
     •Six enemy soldiers were killed and several were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked them in Qala-i-Khyraja of Zindajan.
     •The Mujahideen destroyed one tank, killed 17 enemy soldiers and wounded many others in Qala-i-Langar area of Zindajan.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 10:
     •The Mujahideen destroyed one tank, killed 13 soldiers and wounded 18 west of Qala-i-Naw and Qala-i-Mulki of Zindajan.
     •An enemy attack on Qala-i-Qoroq and Qala-i-Ezat was repulsed. Five enemy soldiers were killed and eight were wounded.
     •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions close to the city of Herat capturing two soldiers and destroying one post They seized two Kalashnikov rifles, one DSchK machinegun, one rocket launcher and one radio set of R-105 type.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 11:
     •The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed eight tanks and trucks of the enemy when they fired rocket into the headquarters of Division No. 17 in Herat
     •Four militiamen were killed and several were injured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at ambushed them in Snawgard and Daiza areas of Guzara District. In retaliation, the Kabul regime bombarded west of the city of Herat with heavy artillery injuring three civilians and one Mujahid.
     •The Mujahideen killed five regime officers and soldiers and injured three in Qala-i-Raig and in Qala-i-Naw of Zindajan.
     •The Mujahideen killed nine enemy soldiers and injured four in Qala-i-Ezat area.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 12:
    •The Mujahideen killed ten enemy soldiers and wounded several others in Qala-i-Raigi area of Zindajan, using ground-to-ground rockets.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed one tank and one truck, killed eight soldiers and injured ten in Mahal-i-Khwaja Ha and Qala-i-Ezat of Zindajan. Regime continues to bomb the Mujahideen positions day and night.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 20:
    •The Mujahideen destroyed one enemy truck south of Qala-i-Mulki in Zindajan.
    •They destroyed one enemy tank and killed its crew in Qala-i-Jamil of Zindajan.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 21:
    •The Mujahideen killed 12 enemy soldiers and destroyed one tank west of Qala-i-Jamil.
    ■An enemy supply truck was destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy base in Taraka area of Zindajan.
    •The Mujahideen killed six soldiers and wounded 11 in Qala-i-Mulki.
 Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council continued their attacks against the enemy targets in Salang and Jabulseraj from 13 to 16 of July, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy.
    In four days of fighting , they de stroyed 28 trucks, six tanks and 15 posts and killed or wounded tens of enemy soldiers and officers . Here are the details of operations as reported by Ahmad Shah Masood:
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 13:
    •The Mujahideen attacked Brigade No. 64 in Jabulseraj with heavy weapons, destroying one tank, three truck and three posts. Three officers of the regime were killed and two were injured.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed two trucks and one tank on Pul-i-Khaki (inside Salang valley).
    •They destroyed eight trucks, two tanks and two posts in Ahangaran area of Salang and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy.
    •Two civilians were killed in Kooklami of Salang when the regime jets bombed the areas.
    •The Mujahideen attacks on Division No. 2 and headquarters of
                                                                             To page ( 6)
                                           AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
Babrak claims opposing Soviet invasion of 1979
     Babrak Karmal, the former head of the Kabul regime, has claimed that he was opposed to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
     In his first interview after spending four years in exile in Moscow, he said he tendered his resignation from the jarty leadership several times but the larty rejected it.
     Babrak, 62, was brought to power by the Red Army in 1979 and acted as the president of Afghanistan in the shadow of occupation forces till 1986. He was replaced by Najib, the chief of the regime's secret police (KHAD), and one year later, he was sent into exile under the cover of medical treatment.
     He described himself as a patriot and expressed support for western style democratic system in Afghanistan.
     Describing the last ten years of the former king's role as "golden era”, he did not oppose the return of the king if the majority of Afghans wanted him.
     Commenting on his role in the current crises, Babrak said everyone in Afghanistan bore some responsibility for the situation. He described his life in exile as torture.
     A spokesman of Watan Party has said Babrak has returned as an ordinary citizen and the party has ignored his return. Babrak has some supporters in Watan Party and his return might intensify differences among the party. Mahmood Baryalai, Babrak's brother, was sacked from his post of Deputy Prime Minister before the arrival of Babrak.
     Another communist leader, Sultan Ali Keshtmand, also has returned from Moscow. He has served as the Prime Minister of the Kabul regime twice — once during Soviet occupation and the second time after the Soviet troops withdrawal. Keshtmand lived in exile in Soviet Union since June 1990.
     Keshtmand announced his resignation from the ruling party a few days ago.
     He gave the following reasons for his resignation:
     •      Improper treatment of ethnic minorities by the party. He said this was the main reason for his resignation.
     •Absence of democracy in the country, despite drastic changes in favor of democracy in the world.
     •Divisions within the ruling party which has discredited it in the eyes of the people.
     •      Lack of collective leadership and democracy in the party.
                                             Soviets brought Babrak to Kabul in 1979 and sent him to exile in 1987. He is sent again to play a new role!
     •Ineffective approach of the party to the national reconciliation issue.
     Talking to BBC he elaborated that the ethnic groups should be given a share in the leadership proportionate to the size of their population . He supported the demand of Shia Mujahideen parties for. one third representation in any body. He claimed that Shias formed one third of the population of country. He said while his objectives are. similar to those of Shia parties, he has no organizational relations with them.
     Keshtmand is from Hazarajat and his family belonged to Shia sect. He has always tried to make use oftfls ethnic connection to serve his political aims. He has been active during the Soviet occupation to create militia groups from among Hazaras.
01C TO DISCUSS AFGHAN ISSUE
     The OIC Foreign Minister's Conference will start on August 4 in Istanbul, Turkey, to discuss the problems faced by the Muslim world. Afghan issue will be discussed in the meeting.
     Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, will lead the Mujahideen's delegation to the conference. Afghan Interim government is a member of the Organization of Islamic Conference.
     OIC's Assistant General Secretary, Ebrahim Bakr, met          with    the
 Mujahideen leaders on July 22 and 23 in Peshawar and discussed with them the Afghan issue. He suggested that Afghan Mujahideen should present a single formula for the solution of the Afghan problem. He was briefed about the military situation in Afghanistan by the Mujahideen leaders. Mr. Bakr rejected the report that Kabul regime was invited by OIC to attend the conference.
 Afghanski wins vice presidency
    When Russian Republic leader Boris Yeltsin needed a vice-presidential running mate, he picked an Afghan war hero and Communist Party maverick, Alexander V. Rutskoi who had saved Yeltsin from a challenge by hard-line lawmakers earlier this year.
    Rutskoi has been honored as a Hero of the Soviet Union for service in Afghanistan as a fighter pilot.
    A longtime party member, Rutskoi says hard-line leaders are out of step with the times.
-' •• ••• •• • •• ' -"________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Iff -;r . ' tlllllllP^
   ' Abp Hurairafr reported that tbe Messenger of AHafe
            ttrWvR                                 I  ||j H ip!
 IBfll
■ Avoid suspicions, for suspicion 15 the! I greatest lie* And do not be Inquisitive about
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
works
     Those fighting a guerrilla war are often tempted to launch massive attacks at the last stages of the war. This temptation, sometime, leads to them to commit fatal mistakes. Since war is fought to be won, the freedom fighters should avoid untimely and hasty steps at the last phase of their struggle.
     The Afghan Mujahideen entered such a phase of their struggle when the Soviet troops withdrew. A great number of Mujahideen, encouraged by their outside supporters, wanted to finish the Kabul regime in a short period of time by launching massive attacks against the main enemy centers.
     There were, however, some Mujahideen who favored gradual escalation of war so that they could prepare their military and political structures for accepting new and greater responsibilities.
     Developments in the battlefields showed that the Mujahideen were not ready for massive operations against the Kabul regime. Attacks on some cities did not succeed. The failure of these attacks helped the Kabul regime to gain self-confidence.
     As the time passed, stalemate prevailed the battlefields. The Mujahideen commanders were looking for a way out of this situation. In the historical meeting of the Council of Commanders in Shah Salim at the end of 1990, they decided on a new military strategy which envisaged gradual escalation of war. This strategy was necessary because the Mujahideen faced shortages of supplies, did not have political unity and their military organizations were not fully developed.
     The new strategy advised mobilization of local forces and attack on weaker targets before launching massive attacks against the major enemy targets. By successful implementation of this strategy the Mujahideen hoped to capture arms and ammunition from the enemy, secure their internal and external communication lines and prepare for launching massive military and operations.
     This strategy proved to be useful. The Mujahideen captured Khost, Khwaja Ghar, Zebak and Eshkashim; successfully defended Khanabad, Zindajan and Maidan and put Salang highway under increased pressure. Within' a few months, the Mujahideen captured enough tanks, armored cars and heavy artillery that they are in position to form armored units. Formation of such units will enable the Mujahideen to score more victories.
     The new victories have returned to the Mujahideen the self-confidence they had lost due to failures immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal. These victories have destroyed the self-confidence of the regime. These initial victories have become possible due to the cooperation between the Mujahideen at the local levels. For major attacks, the Mujahideen have to coordinate their activities at the national level. If the enemy is facing the Mujahideen at several fronts simultaneously, it cannot defend itself effectively due to shortages of manpower.
     The remaining part of the current year is very important for the Mujahideen. It is hoped that die Mujahideen commanders, party leaders and ordinary Mujahideen dp everything possible to win more victories before the winter starts.
     The Mujahideen's successes in the battlefields will have a positive affect on the political process directed at finding peaceful solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen victories will encourage their supporters to continue their help to the resistance. They also pass a strong message to Gorbachev that he cannot impose his communist friends on Afghans no matter how much more weapons, ammunition and money he sends to them. This might force Gorbachev to revise his stand on the Afghan issue.
     The new strategy of the Mujahideen does not reject political process for finding a solution to the issue. On the contrary, it provides better opportunities for peace by clearing the misconception about the abilities of the regime and "inabilities" of, the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen victories will also correct the thinking of sorr(e of the UN officials who wrongly think that Najib is indispensable for achievement of peace in the Afghanistan. ___________________________________
Aid bodies attacked in Zabul
    Attacks on relief organizations and kidnap of aid workers in southwest Afghanistan has caused suspension of relief works in that area.
    The offices of some international relief organizations working in Zabul province was attacked on July 4 by a commander affiliated to Prof. Sayyaf. These organizations were involved in demining, agriculture, irrigation, veterinary and food distribution projects.
    He confiscated the properties of the relief organizations and made some of their workers (including one French man) prisoners. Later he released the prisoners.
    The local commander's motives behind the action were not clear. Local issues might be involved but one cannot rule out the political motives behind such a move. Prof. Sayyaf is opposed to UN five-point plan and the relations between his party and USA has become tense over the Gulf issue.
    Other Mujahideen parties have condemned die action against the aid organization and have demanded return of plundered goods.
    In a separate incident, one Americans aid workers and his guide were kidnapped in Jaghory, Ghazni Province. No one has claimed the responsibility for the kidnapping. Efforts to locate and release the American aid worker have been started.
    As a precautionary move, USAID has banned sending to Afghanistan of aid workers of those organizations which receive American funds. This restriction was earlier imposed on American nationals only.
    Three aid workers were killed and two were seriously wounded when the pick-up van carrying them hit a landmine in Panjwaie District, Kandahar, on July 15. They were all Afghans and worked for VITA, a non-govemmental relief organization.
    These three incidents in quick succession directed against the aid work ers give strength to the speculation that they might be part of organized campaign.
    Some resistance parties are worried about these incidents because it will cause further reduction in relief as-
 (I
 To page (7)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 15, August 1,1991, page
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Raees Abdul Wahid
    Raees Abdul Wahid is Jami'at commander in Helmand who leads more than 5000 Mujahideen in Helmand and its neighboring provinces. He has been very active against the Soviets and the Kabul regime and has taken part in many battles in Helmand, Farah,
 Kandahar and Ghore Province.
    Mawlawi Abdul Wahid started Jehad after the communist coup of 1978. His first victory was the liberation of Baghran District from ebntrol of the communist regime. In February of 1979, he led a force of about 800 Mujahideen, equipped with shotguns and swords, against the relatively well-equipped communist troops. The enemy was defeated after three days of fighting. Twelve regime soldiers were killed and the rest captured. Soldiers were set free but the communists officers were executed. The Mujahideen captured 450 shotguns, three machine-guns, 15 Kalashnikov rifles, three sPSh pistols and some ammunition. Five Mujahideen were martyred in the operation. This was a good start for Mawlawi Abdul Wahid.
      After this victory, the Mujahideen chose him as their leader (Raees) and he still bears that title. He became affiliated  with Herakat       Inqilab
 (Mohammadi group). He, however, developed   differences with     Nasim
 Akhundzada, another Harakat commander in Helmand.: In 1986, he joined Jami'at Islami.
      Here are some of the major operations in which Raees Abdul Wahid’s men have played a major role:
      In 1980, he and 2,500 of his men took part in the operation for the liberation of Musa Qala District along with Nasim Akhundzada. More than 600 rifles were captured form the enemy. All the captured weapons were given to Nasim Akhundzada to strengthen his position in the newly liberated district which was Akhundzada's home town.
      In 1983, he attacked the enemy garrison in Toor Tank of Lashkargah. Fighting continued for 13 days during which five enemy tanks and one ammunition dump was destroyed. The Mujahideen lost five men. Facing shortages of drinking water and ammunition, the Mujahideen retreated.
      In 1985, the Red Army launched an offensive to capture Musa Qala District. The center of Hezb Islami in
 Tanba was captured by the enemy. All Mujahideen left Musa Qala.
     The Mujahideen of Raees Abdul Wahid and Nasim Akhundzada launched a counter attack against the Red Army. After 15 days of fighting, the Soviets left the area. The enemy lost 25 tanks and armored cares and scores of Soviet soldiers were killed and wounded.
     Forty two Mujahideen were killed and many were wounded. Due to lack of air defense system, Soviet helicopters inflicted most of the casualties.
     Raees took an active part In the liberation of Treen Root, the provincial capital of Uruzgan, by sending 500 of his Mujahideen. He also has bases in Delaram of Farah, Grishk, Lashkargah, Kandahar and Ghore.
     Abdul Wahid is famous for his personal courage and desire to implement Sharia (Islamic law) in the areas he controls. Travellers passing the area appreciate his achievements in providing security for the people.
     In some remote areas of Helmand, bandits used to rob people from their properties since the time of former king and no government could solve this problem. Abdul Wahid captured the bandits and by establishing permanent posts along these roads, made them safe for travellers at day and night. Being an Islamic .scholar, Abdul Wahid has paid attention to opening madra-sas (religious schools). He has established 40 madrasas, 10 of which are boarding schools. He provides financial assistance for the schools.
     He has built a hospital and five clinics in different parts of Helmand with the help of some relief organizations.
     Abdul Wahid was bom 35 years ago in Laji, a village in Baghran District. His father, Mawlawi Abdul Man an, was teaching in a madras. His father owned enough farm-land to support his family.
     Abdul Wahid began his education in his home and later moved to Kandahar to continue his studies. He graduated from Deh Khwaja Madrasa in Kandahar before the April coup.
     He had converted a Soviet prisoner to Islam. The prisoner was martyred some months ago in a mine explosion.
     Raees Abdul Wahid is married and has two sons and one daughter. His eldest son,12, is a student of a madrasa. ‘
 [claim that a special Afghan | Mujahideen force had been deployed near the line <rf control in the Pbonchl WRajauri sectors of KasimUr,
     Inter-Services Public Relations i(ISPR), the information wing of Pakistan's aimed forces; said the re-
 tkn campaign to "mislead world [opinion about the present indepen-j
 I
 | According to figures made avail-1 able by the Frontier police, as many] as 290 people were killed and llBOl (were wounded in the'374 bomb ex-1 plosions in NWFP between 1979 to 1990. It caused property losses worth R$. 34,070,051 (a little more than [one million US Dollar). The highest! Innmber of blasts#), was recorded ml 198?, followed by 71 in 1988, and 50 Jin 1989. The number of explosions! decreased to 34 in 1990. The number of blasts recorded in 1991 was 12.1 These blasts were the worit^^HACM [and KGB agents.       5m
 | The Mvyatrideeo captwed 'jamnj IkHAD agents who intended to carry lout sabotage: activities in Paktia Province, MID1A reported. [
 I TheBIHHHHHIi
 them ll communication sets, seven
 five million Afghan! in cash. They;
     Prof. Rabbni met with Robert Oakley,                 U> Pakistan
 in the Pofilical Offipe of Jami'at on July 17. Situation m Afghanistan and prospects Tor a political solution the
                                                                                                             Ministry of Pakistan described as a : report § • • that the I
 Conference (OlC) had invited I Najihallali’s representative to the! forthcoming ministerial meeting of the OIC in Istanbul. The spokesman st^i|that the Afghan InteriH fkimrnmeot (Ald| representi] [Afghanistan on the QIC and PtoCl Is expected to]
                                           AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
News from battlefields
    | From page (2) j
 Core No. 6 at Qala-i-Surkh continued. Regime air force and long-range artillery continue to pound the Mujahideen positions.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 14:
    •The Mujahideen destroyed three trucks and two posts in Baba Mardan of Salang.
    •The headquarters of Brigade No. 64 was hit by the Mujahideen's heavy weapons as a result of which two' rooms of the building were destroyed.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed six trucks and two posts in Haijan of Salang and killed five enemy soldiers and wounded six.
    •Five trucks, one post and one anti-aircraft gun were destroyed in Ahangaran of Salang.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks, one truck and three posts in Qalatak and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy.
    •Firing ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy installations in Jabulseraj continued as a result of which several buildings were hit and the enemy suffered heavy casualties. Wife of the governor of Kapisa was killed in one of these attacks.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 15:
    •The Mujahideen attacked supply convoys and enemy bases in Salang, destroying eight trucks, two posts and one 76 mm howitzer in Haijan. They
 R.I.F broadcasts Persian program
   Mehrabuddin Mastan
     Radio France International has started broadcasting a one-hour daily program in
 Persian
     The program started on March 21, the beginning of the Afghan year, on the 16 meter band (6,750 KH) from 1800 to 1900 hours Greenwich mean time.
     News, commentary, French press review, social, cultural and economic features and music are included in the program.
     Ehsan Manoochehri and five other Iranian journalists run the program. While broadcasting a program in Persian is good news for Afghans, no native Afghan is involved in preparation of the program. Afghanistan has more Persian-speakers than any country except Iran.
     Broadcasting a Persian program by R.F.I. is asign of improvement of relations between France and Iran.
     Radio French International broadcasts in 14 major world languages.
 also destroyed four trucks and one post in Ahangaran garrison. The enemy suffered heavy casualties but not details were available.
     •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Olang and Haft Tanoor of Salang, destroying two D-30 (122 mm) guns, one post and one tank. The crew of the tank were killed. The Mujahideen's ZSU (23 mm) guns has stopped the movement of the enemy on the road from Olang to Haft Tanoor (two locations south of Salang tunnel).
     •The Mujahideen continue to attack the enemy military installations in Jabulseraj with BM-12 (107 mm ground-to-ground rockets), causing heavy casualties among the enemy troops. The Kabul regime's long-range artillery and air force continued to pound liberated areas in Salang and Gulbahar, killing three civilians and wounding two.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 16.
     •The Mujahideen destroyed one oil tanker, one post and eight trucks in Ahangaran and Haijan of Salang.
     •The Mujahideen destroyed one post, one BM-14 rocket launcher and four trucks when they attacked 64th brigade in Salang.
     •One enemy post was destroyed and many troops were either killed or wounded in Baba Mardan.
     •Two soldiers were killed and an anti-aircraft gun of the enemy was destroyed in Parking area of Olang.
     •Two trucks of the enemy were destroyed by ZSU-23 guns of the Mujahideen in Haft Tanoor.
     •In Bagh-i-Maidan, a building and two trucks of the enemy were destroyed.
     •In Olang one truck was set on fire and six trucks were damaged.
     •In Jabulseraj, one tank was destroyed, two soldiers were killed and six were wounded. In Tajikan (Jabulseraj) five soldiers were killed by heavy weapons of the Mujahideen.
  Kunduz Province
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured a post belonging to Kayan militiamen in Ali Abad sub-district, seizing the following weapons:
     •Kalashnikov rifles: 11 •Goryunov: 1 •RPG rocket launcher: 1 •R-107 radio set 1 They captured 13 enemy soldiers. Arif Khan lauched the attack.
 Pepsi added to Afghan menu
    The Kabul regime has promised Pepsi Cola a monopoly of the soft drink market in Afghanistan when a plant set up under franchise from the American giant starts producing next month, AFP reported.
    Qadir and Wazir Resin Processing Co.( QWO), a private company, has set up the plant under the Pepsi International franchise.
    Although fighting is continuing between Soviet-backed government forces and resistance guerillas in many parts of the country, the Pepsi marketing venture is considered one of the most ambitious commercial projects ever launched in the country.
    QWO plans to step up its annual production to a target 69 million bottles for three brands - Pepsi, Miranda and 7-Up.
    The company's chief engineer Nooruddin said the firm's Pepsi will be cheaper than those sold on die market now, but its fixed cost will depend on the rate of the Afghani against the US dollar.
    Imported colas, including the Soviet GI and staple SISI, presently sell at between 450 and 500 Afghanis a can and the Pepsi makers said they would sell their brands at below 30 cents US, or 300 Afghanis.
    The Pepsi project is fail proof because it bagged the franchise the same year as Coca Cola withdrew its license here after letting an Afghan manufacturing firm produce and market the drink for 20 years.
    Pepsi International has agreed only to supply formula concentrates while QWO will stock its own chemicals sugar and water to prepare the three drinks.
 Exchange rate
   The semi-official foreign currency market of Kabul recorded a sharp decrease in the value of Afghani in the first week of July. Each US dollar was exchanged with 1030 Afghani. Earlier each dollar bought 980 Afghani.
 Militias defect
   Shadi Khan, a regime militiaman in Herat, has defected to the Mujahideen with his 500 men. He bar joined the regime last year.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page Q
 Red Cross limits its Afghan role
     The International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) has announced reduction of its activities in Afghanistan due to increased security risks to its workers.
     ICRC terminated its activities in Kandahar when three of its members were arrested by a local Hezb Islami commander, Haji Asadullah, in January. They were released after several weeks in custody.
     It closed its center in Mazar when it was looted by regime militiamen.
     The activities of ICRC came to an end in Khost when two 6f its workers were killed apparently in a tribal dispute.
     Jamillur Rahman party which rules most of the Kunar Province has asked ICRC to paint the signs on its cars in white, instead of red* or its vehicles will not be allowed to enter that province. Afghans hate red signs and banners because they were used by the communist regime.
     ICRC will also close its center in Herat After the closure of these centers, ICRC will remains active only in Ningarhar and Continue to run its hospital in Kabul.               L
     ICRC has recently repatriated 21 POWs of the Kabul regime which were under treatment in its Peshawar hospital. Repatriation of a batch of prisoners by ICRC had caused a row between this organization and Commander Haqqani who accused ICRC of repatriating some ranking officers of the Kabul against the agreement signed between the two sides when they were delivered to ICRC for treatment ICRC argues that the repatriated prisoners were abandoned by the Mujahideen and their repatriation had taken place with the consent of the Pakistan government
      ICRC was given permission to open an office in Takhar but the orga-niztion did take any step in providing medical services.to people because the Supervisory Council did not agree that the supplies to come through Kabul.
      ICRC has claimed that some Mujahideen are also being treated in its hospital in Kabul and are returned safely to the liberated areas after completion of their medical treatment This might be true about some individuals but no major Mujahideen fronts is involved.
Eshkashim, Zebak liberated
From page (1)
 ment in the area.
     • Liberation of Zebak and Eshkashim is a blow to Kayan militias. The inhabitants of these two towns, being followers of Ismailia sect, had established close contacts with Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan, the head of Ismail ias in Afghanistan and a militia leader affiliated to the Kabul regime. Mansoor wanted to establish himself in Badakhshan with the financial assistance from USSR and UN and then stab the Mujahideen from back. Ismailias live in Zebak, Eshkashim, Sheghnan and Munjan.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at have treated the local Ismailias properly. Despite their repeated mistakes of taking side with the communists, their lives and properties have been spared whenever their area came under control of the Mujahideen. After the liberation of Kuran-o-Munjan in 1987, Commander Masood forgave the Ismailia militias of Munjan Valley and even allowed them to keep their arms. They will be treated similarly in Zebak and Eshkashim by Sayyed Najmuddin.
     • Victory at Zebak and Eshkashim will put SC in a better position in the Council of Commanders because it has achieved most of the targets it was assigned.
     While Eshkashim is being liberated for the first time, Zebak had been liberated by the Mujahideen twice in the past. It was liberated, for the first time, in 1979, some months before the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen's advance towards Eshkashim was checked by the Soviet intervention (before their invasion of December 1979). On December 27, 1979, a column of Soviet armored units crossed the border into Eshkashim and moved towards Faizabad capturing Zebak on its way.
     The Mujahideen under the command of Sayyed Najmuddin liberated
 Zebak for the second time in summer of 1989. The Kabul regime launched a counter offensive to recapture Zebak using the Soviet territory. Soviet artillery and air force also provided cover fire for the regime troops. While Najmuddin was engaged in a pitched battle against the regime troops, a commander of Hezb (Hikmatyar group), launched attack against Baharak, the base of Sayyed Najmuddin. He faced a dilemma ~ to fight for control of Zebak against the communists or turn back to defend his base against a rival Mujahideen party! He choose the latter. This give the regime an opportunity to recapture Zebak. Whether the two attacks against Sayyed Najmuddin were coordinated or the local Hezb commander tried to exploit the opportunity created by the fighting in Zebak is a question which cannot be easily answered. The reason could be any thing, the result was the same — loss of Zebak and victory of communists.
     Some weeks ago an incident took place which drew world attention to this remote area. A regime jet bombed a Soviet village killing some people and inflicting heavy material losses. Regime's air force was assigned to bomb a village near Zebak which was suspected of being a stronghold of the Mujahideen. Similarity of terrain in two sides of the Amu River which forms the border between Afghanistan and Soviet Union confused the communist pilot He dropped his bombs on a Soviet village. The incident shocked Najib. He apologized to Gorbachev Tajikistan leaders, Soviet people and families of the victims and offered compensation. He promised to punish the pilot If the bombs had fallen on a Badakhshan village and had killer some Afghan villagers, regime woulc have called it an act of bravery am would have rewarded the pilot but mis take in reading maps made the pilot legible for a court marshal with a possible death penalty.
Aid bodies attacked in Zabul
                                                                    organizations is not limited to the liber-
                                From page (4)
sis tan ce to people inside Afghanistan. These incidents also give a bad image to the resistance which easily could be exploited by the Kabul regime.
     Some UN officials working in Kabul have asked for total stoppage of UN relief operations in liberated areas and using all available funds through Kabul.
     Violence against relief operations funded by UN and other International
 ated areas. Some months ago UN trout farm in Qargha, about 10 kilometers away from the center of the city of Kabul, was looted by soldiers stationed in the nearby garrison.
     UN office in Zindajan and UNICEF vaccination centers were destroyed by the regime forces during their offensive launched on May 4. The ICRC center in Mazar-i-Sharif was plundered by the Kabul regime militiamen.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 15, August 1,1991, page ©
Tripartite Afghan talks
is opened in
    Iran and Pakistan, the two supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, have decided to coordinate their activities Cor finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The two countries have already expressed their support far a political settlement of the Afghan issue in the framework of the UN five-point plan.            v
    The experts of two countries met in Tehran to prepare the agenda for the three-party talks between Pakistan, Iran and the representatives of Mujahideen in Islamabad.
    Dr. Ali Akber Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, Akram Zaki, the General Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan and Mujahideen leaders attended the talks which began on July 29. The purpose of the talks is to evolve a formula for a political solution of the Afghan problem.
    Some Weeks ago, the commander of Iranian Revolutionary Guards held talks with Pakistan and Mujahideen leaders on the Afghan issue. He- said Iran and Pakistan were coordinating their efforts on the Afghan issue.
    All the supporters of the Mujahideen have expressed their support for a political solution of .the Afghan problem. They talk among themselves to coordinate their activities in support of a political settlement. US has been in contact with Iran on the issue through Switzerland government which protect Americans interest in Tehran. Saudi Arabia is being consulted by US, Pakistan and ban.
    A Soviet delegation have recently visited Saudi to discuss Afghan problem with the Kingdom's leaders. A Soviet delegation is expected to arrive
 Islamabad
 to Islamabad for talks on the Afghan issue with the Pakistani officials in the near future. This is in reply to an earlier visit by a Pakistani delegation to Moscow.
    There are two train problems on the way of a political settlement of the Afghan problem:
    Firstly, the Mujahideen are not united. The friends of Afghanistan are encouraging them to evolve a common stand on the issue without which no political settlement will be possible.The Mujahideen will come under increasing pressure from their supporters to come up with a united position on the issue. The Mujahideen have formed a 28-member commission to work towards achieving that aim. No major progress has been reported by the commission so far.
    Secondly, the Mujahideen's refusal to talk to Najib and its party is the main obstacle on the way of political settlement envisaged by the UN. Realizing this difficulty, die UN Special Envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said that the prospect for a political settlement in near future is not bright because most of the effective Mujahideen parties refuse to talk to the Kabul regime.
  ' A Sudanese politician, Hasan Turabi, has begun a peace mission help finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. He came to Peshawar and met with a number of Mujahideen leaders. He promotes a political settlement of the Afghan issue based on the UN formula. He might visit Mdscow to discuss his ideas with the Soviet leaders. Turabi has been a supporter of the Mujahideen struggle.
Khalqi leader jailed in India
/' Asadullah Sarwari, the former 3,^^ by the Indian police for illegal Deputy Prime Minister of the Kabul regime, has been condemned to one year jail and paying a fine of $1900 by an
 Indian court for overstaying and lack of proper documents. After release, he will be returned to Yemen.
     Sarwari is a famous communist figure belonging to Khalq faction of the ruling party. When Shah Nawaz Tanai, another Khalqi figure and the Defence Minister of the Kabul regime, was preparing for a coup against Najib, Sarwari wanted to join him. He was regime's ambassador to Yemen at that time. On the way to Kabul, Najib's agents stole his passport in Delhi airport to prevent his return. Later, he was
stay and possessing no travel documents. Sarwari had a bad reputation for cruel suppression of the political opponents of the regime when he vyas in power.
UN quits Badakhshan
    Several UiutedNatktnshun^nitansn agencies have evacuated their persoinel from the norther Afghan province of Badakhtitan because of heavy fruiting in thereon, agencies reported from Kabul.
    The UN pulled out four expatriates and ten Afghan nationals from the provincial capital of Faizabad as fighting between government troops andMujahhfemieachedthedty.
    "We have abandoned all projects in Badakh&an because of the fighting," said one pqjectwaiker.
Ismail Khan asks for aid to refugees
     Commander Ismail Khan of Herat has asked for humanitarian assistance to the 35,000 internal refugees displaced by the fighting in Zindajan District which has lasted about 80 days.
     In a message issued on July 19, the Mujahideen commander said the regime's heavy bombardments have destroyed the agriculture and houses, killed livestock in Zindajan forcing people to take refuge in other liberated areas. They needed food and medical assistance to prevent them from leaving the country, the message said.
     Ismail Khan said the enemy offensive had been stalled with the joint cooperation of all Mujahideen parties. He revealed than regime had sent fresh troops to the battlefield and asked the Mujahideen parties outside to send their fighters to the battlefields to foil the enemy designs.
     According to Iranian papers, UNHCR office in Tehran has confirmed reaching of up to 15,000 fresh refugees from Zindajan to Iran. A delegation of the organization visited the border area to see the situation; The delegation said up to 35,000 people had been internally displaced to Ghoryan and Enjeel Districts as a result of regime’s bombardments.
     The otgahization said no assistance had reached Zindajan since the beginning of war in May. Iranian official have told UNHCR that about 50,000 Afghans, haverecently become refugees in Iran.
»'-.ii if ■■            m    ^\ i<v?. “mi. v
FU,‘ .                             Iv   \lv~s         e
      k    > ,,.,‘-j ';■; *{<■ tVt 3S-£:;:>v&’aAW&& w iJ&5-y >A-
‘ s< m ilri > ud|H'''^iX .J$ i \                      :
  ^'■■■^;::,^;:;'::;‘.|;'xOV' :v \\ '"’’ V," ■'Av. ■■5.'^ '^k^'”:-’:’^:-'<yj''y‘\ ’>,C,/'' .:'..' :7 , '' ' ■ ■' '' J' ' ■•/•■■'.■■'■■■■ v ' I
 5 V. -5 ir
 i v NV-,i V-
 i \ xJ$ *
 i%\ ^ i

.21 i
MW
 Vol 7, No 16
 August 15,1991
     The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of Jami'at have scored fresh victories in Takhar and Badakhshan. By seizing Rustaq District, Takhar Province fell under l ull control of the Mujahideen. In Badakhshan, Wakhan and Sheghnan Districts were captured.
     After the fall of Khwaja Ghar, a guerrilla campaign of attrition was launched against the regime garrisons in Rustaq, Dasht-i-Qala and Kookcha Bridge to wear down the enemy.
     The Mujahideen attacked Kookcha bridge on July 22 and captured it after two days of fighting. The enemy forces who had held the bridge retreated to Dasht-i-Qala (about 10 kilometers away).
     The enemy forces stationed in Rustaq surrendered to the Mujahideen on July 25. They included the militia groups of Mirza Abdur Rahim, Haji Halim and some units of the regime army and KHAD. In all about 1200 armed men surrendered to the Mujahideen in Rustaq. Abdul Aziz, the deputy commander of Mirza Abdur Rahim's militias, cooperated with the Mujahideen.
     The Mujahideen captured the following weapons at Rustaq:
     •Armored cars: 5 •Howitzers (76 mm): 5 •ZSU gun(23 mm): 1 •ZPU (14.5 mm gun): 15 •Mortar (120 mm): 1 •Mortar (82 mm): 3 •AGS-17 grenade launchers: 4 •P.K machineguns: 40 '
     •RPG-7 rocket launchers: 50 •Light weapons of different types:1200
     After capturing Kookcha bridge, the Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Dasht-i-Qala and Ikhanum hill. The garrison in Dasht-i-Qala and security posts in Ikhanum were manned by-the militias-of SAFZA, headed by
Hakim Seddiqi, and units belonging to Division No. 55.
    Dasht-i-Qala and Ikhanum fell to the Mujahideen on July 26. The Mujahideen seized die following from the enemy:
    • Kalashnikov rifles 2,000
    • BMP tanks: 7
    • Armored cars: 4
    •Armored cars (60PB): 5
                              askt f|
                     _             Kistif.
                              K-River"-" ^Taliqaa
     • Armored cars (70PB): 3
     • BM-21 rocket launchers: 3
     • BM-14 rocket launchers: 2
     • Howitzers (153 mm): 2
     • Howitzer (D-30): 1
     • Mortars (120 mm): 5
     • Mortar (82 mm): 6
     • ZSUs (23 mm gun): 3
     • ZPUs (14.5 mm): 3
     • AGS-17 grenade launcher 3
     • BM-1 rocket launcher 1 ■ Howitzer (75 mm): 1
     • Goryunov machineguns: 4
     • DSchK manchineguns: 4
     • Two depots of ammunition •One depot of foodstuffs.
     Meanwhile, Sayyed Najmuddin,
 Jami’at’s renowned commander in Badakhshan, captured Wakhan District on July 31. This victory came after the liberation of Zebak and Eshkashim on the Soviet border. The center of Wakhan district is the town of Khandud which is also situated on the Soviet bor- (g
der. This is the first time that the Mujahideen have opened their way into the Wakhan corridor, which borders China, the USSR and Pakistan Sheghnan District was liberated by the Mujahideen under the command of Abdul Basir Khalid, Jami'at commander active around the city of Eaizabad, on August 3. Sheghnan, located close to the Soviet border, was controlled by the Khalq faction of the communist party.
             The recent victories by Mujahideen in Takhar anc Badakhshan have the following important political and military implications:
             •       The liberation of four districts in Takhar - Dashti-i-Archi, Khwaja Ghar, Rustaq, Yangi Qala and Darqad; anc four districts in Badakhshan -Zebak, Eshkashim, Wakhan and Sheghnan -- is a significant step towards the liberation o: all Afghanistan from the communists occupation.
             •                These victories take place close to the Soviet border. The Mujahideen presence along the border is a reality which the Soviet leaders cannot ignore.
      •       These victories resulted in the elimination of the SAZA and SAFZA communist factions in Takhar, and dealt a severe blow to the Kayan mili tiamen who had become involved in fighting outside their territories.
      •       Takhar province is completely liberated, and the enemy's military threat to Taliqan and other liberated areas has diminished (except for aerial bombing and the firing of SCUD missiles).
      •      A considerable amount of arms and ammunition woe captured. These were used against the enemy and wi be used in future operations.
      •       Takhar was a source of man power for the enemy. The liberation oi
 To page (3)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 16, August 15, 1991, page ©
The Battlefields
 Herat Province
    Fighting continues in Zindajan. Abdur Rauf Baigi has returned to Herat, after being defeated in his hometown Rustaq by the Mujahideen of Ahmad Shah Masood, with some groups of militia* men from Jawzjan, Kandahar and Oruzgan. He told a gathering of people in Herat that he has been given the job of pushing the Mujahideen out of Zindajan. Informed sources from Kabul say that Baigi's future is tied to the outcome of the fighting in Zindajan. Troops under his command have already suffered heavy casualties and the regime's offensive in Zindajan has been stalled.
    Here are the accounts of some operations reported by Commander Ismail Khan:             ^
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 23:
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami’at repulsed an enemy attack in the Ham sayan area of Pash toon Zarghoon District and captured four enemy soldiers.
    •    The Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy base south of Zindajan destroying one tank and killing its crew.
    •    Six soldiers were killed, four were wounded and four trucks were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Taraka area of Zindajan using heavy weapons.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 24:
    Three hundred militiamen, headed by Abdur Rauf, surrendered to the the Mujahideen of Haji Saido Jan in Shindand District, They brought the following weapons with them: •Kalashnikov rifles: 70 •Kalakov rifles (AK-74): 5 •Mortars: 2
    •Heavy machineguns: 2 •Trucks: 2 •Some ammunition
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 25:
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed an enemy post, captured one enemy officer and three soldiers and seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one ma-chinegun, one pistol, one wireless set and some ammunition in Zindajan.
    •    Two enemy soldiers were killed and four were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their base in Qala Mulaki Ha of Zindajan.
    •    Five armed militiamen defected to the Mujanideen in Kushk-i-Kohna sub-District
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 26:
    The Mujahideen under the command of Abdul Qader attacked enemy security posts close to the city of Herat, destroying one post in Khwaja Kala and capturing three soldiers and one officer. They also seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one pistol, one P.K. machinegun and two radio sets.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 27:
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at freed the villages of Koh-i-Kafir Qala and Chil Mastan, about 10 kilometers from Zindajan, from enemy control. They seized a great deal of ammunition in the operation.
    •    Two enemy soldiers were killed and five were wounded by a mine explosion in Qala-i-Raigi of Zindajan.
    •    The Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and wounded several others in the Qalat area of Zindajan.
    •    The Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Pul-i-Zindajan, killing one and wounding three enemy soldiers. One Mujahid sustained injuries in the attack.
    •The Mujahideen repulsed an enemy attack ip Khan Makoo of Zindajan, destroying ope tank and one truck. The Mujahideen used heavy weapons in the attack against the enemy.
 OPERATIONS ON JULY 29:
    • The Mujahideen attacked enemy
bases in the Feel Band area of Zindajan, destroying one post and setting one truck on fire. The enemy troops retreated from the area.
    •    Sixteen enemy troops were killed and one 60-PP armored car was destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked the regime's position outside the city of Zindajan.
    •    The Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy base west of Zindajan, killing four and wounding eight enemy soldiers. One Mujahid was killed and another was wounded in the operation.
    •    The Mujahideen destroyed.an enemy post in the Pul Band area of Zindajan and inflicted heavy casualties on the regime troops.
    ■ A rocket fired by the Mujahideen ignited an enemy ammunition dump in Qala Mulki Ha of Zindajan.The dump burned for five hours.
Ghor Province
    The Mujahideen killed nine enemy soldiers and wounded many others in the Dawlatyar area of Ghor on July 25, Commander Mawlawi Musa reported.
    In a separate operation, the Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and captured 10. The Mujahideen lost four men in the operation.
Kunduz Province
    A unit of Kayani militiamen under the command of Ghayoor, stationed in Kunduz airport, surrendered to the Mujahideen of Commander Arif Khan on July 27, bringing with them 54 light and heavy weapons, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    A security post close to the city also was captured by the Mujahideen, but no details were given.
Logar Province
    The Mujahideen of Logar captured 22 regime militiamen and seized 80 weapons of different types when they launched a joint attack against the enemy in Kunjak and Tangi-i-Waghjan on July 24, Commander Fazlullah reported.
    Three Mujahideen were martyred and 25 sustained injuries.
Baghlan Province
    The Mujahideen of Abdul Hai Haqjo killed six enemy soldiers, wounded four and captured three when they attacked the regime base in Timorak of Baghlan on August 5. Two Mujahideen were injured in attack.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
‘Wisdom
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
the sages
Character, not appearance determines man's quality
     I was told once of a king’s son who was short and ugly, while his toothers were tall and good-looking. One day his father cast a glance of distaste at him. The boy intuitively caught the despising glance and said: "Someone who is short and intelligent is better than someone who is tall and stupid; it is often not quantity, but quality that matters. Did you hear what the thin man said to a fat fool? An Arab stallion may be delicate but it is none the less better than a stable full of donkeys!"
     His father laughed and all the courtiers followed suite. But his brothers were mortally offended. A man's qualities and faults are hidden until he speaks out Do not think that the thicket is safely empty; there may be a leopard sleeping among the bushes.
     At that time, I was told, dangerous enemies rose to oppose the king. When the two armies met, the first to ride out into the field of battle was this boy. He said: "I am not one to show my back on the day of battle, though you may see my head rolling in the blood and dust. Whoever fights, risks his own life, but he who flees the battlefield, risks the life of the whole army."
     With these words, he charged at the enemy and despatched several of their finest warriors. When he came into his father's presence, he bowed low and said: "Father, if you forgive my saying so, though you once despised me for being slight in stature^ yet on the day of battle, it is better to have a thin-waisted horse than a fatted calf!"
opens
      It is said, the enemy had a large army and the king had only a few soldiers. Some of these began to flee. The boy shouted: "Men! Try your best, or else go and wear women's clothes!" The horsemen were stung by his words and attacked the enemy with sudden fury. That same day, they won a decisive victory.
      The king embraced his son and kissed him on the head and on the eyes. His respect and affection for him grew day by day until he proclaimed him his heir-apparent.
      His brothers were consumed with envy and decided to get rid of him by poisoning his food. His sister saw what they were doing from an upper window and slammed the shutters to warn her toother. He understood and would not eat and said: "If a brilliant man should die, no worthless fool can ever take his place!
      When the king heard of this, he summoned his sons and boxed their ears as was due. Then he appointed each one of them as governor of one of the outlying districts of his kingdom, so that there should be no further cause for strife. As is said: "Ten paupers can happily sleep under one blanket, but two ambitous politicians can hardly fit in one country! If a man of God breaks bread, he shares half of it with the poor; but a ruler who conquers one country, . cannot wait to get his hands on the neighboring country.
in Herat!
   The Kabul regime announced opening of. a university in Herat on August 2. According to Radio Kabul, 28 students began their studies in the Faculty of Heath at the new university There are no other faculties, classes or students. The Kabul regime has established similar mini-universities in Kandahar and in Mazar.
   .....limit.huh.......
 Cmdr. Afzali
                                         From page (5)
 Safiullah Afzali, heads the Islamic Organization of Women of Afghanistan. About 400 women are members of this organization. In addition to literacy and teaching of the Holy Quran, this organization promotes handicrafts like weaving carpets, tailoring and embroidery to enable families to earn their living through useful work.
 Council's victories
                                         From page (1)
 Takhar deprived the regime of this source. The Kabul regime is already facing shortages of manpower.
    • The victories have had a posi tive effect on the morale of Afghans, especially on those living in Badakhshan and Kunduz. They have become more optimistic than ever before about the liberation of their areas from regime control.
iMiiinimiNmim
ICRC man abducted north of Kabul
    A member of the International Committee of the Red Cross has been kidnapped near Kabul, ICRC reported.
    The kidnapped officer was Alexander Ghelew, 27, a Swiss national.
    He was on a mission with an Afghan Red Cross worker to pick up an amputee for treatment when the incident happened about 60 kilometers north of Kabul. The local worker was set free.

                     S 1.. i 8
tn lifeBISIE^
 ill, i


Bill

* j ^l-Al I .
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page
                                    i rw/ \ 5 n ? > \                                           .
                                    I    JS-C,’?   f          fi   l-i   :                      ^
                                    I       %>-X   f       -,. V   5 '   ;        / > \
                                 ^p^.V>w--Xv.%->.\\vXvv-iv .v-.v.-.‘.‘<v«‘«v‘.'.v.-.‘«vv,v'.\-. • •

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           vvs
C -A, s^> s-. r .-
 Jami’at condemns violence against foreign aidworkers
    Attacks on international relief organizations in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and political kidnappings are negative developments which will hurt Jehad and decrease international support for the Mujahideen.
    Recently, some relief organizations helping people in southwest Afghanistan were attacked and some of their workers were detained in an area controlled by the Mujahideen.
    An Afghan journalist has been abducted in Peshawar by some unknown people.
    One cannot say with certainty that there is a political motive behind each of these incidents but if these things are done to achieve political gains, the people behind these crimes hurt the Afghan cause. Jehad was, and still is, very popular all over the world. Not only governments, but ordinary people all over the world supported and sympathized with the Mujahideen and wished them victory.
    Violence against humanitarian organizations undermines not only the relief work for the needy Afghans, but causes a loss of world-wide sympathy for our just struggle.
    Jehad has entered into a sensitive phase. Changes in the Soviet Union and successful propaganda campaign launched by the Kabul regime have raised serious questions in the minds of the Jehad's supporters about the logic of continuing support for the Mujahideen. A lot of positive work is necessary to keep international support on our side. If any group, for political or financial reasons, attacks aid organizations and abducts their workers, it is acting against the interest of Mujahideen. The enemy benefits from such irresponsible behavior.
    Those who indulge in these actions violate Islamic law and the Afghan code of conduct. The relief organizations working in the liberated area enter Afghanistan with the permission of one or several Mujahideen parties. They are entitled to the protection of all Mujahideen. Any violence committed against them undermines the agreement signed between them and one or several Mujahideen groups.
    Such acts of violence also violate Afghan hospitality. Afghans are famous for honoring guests and protecting those in need of assistance. These qualities have earned than respect all over the world. It is a crime to damaged the reputation of the Afghan people for short-sighted political and economic ends.
     Jami'at has always appreciated the work of relief organizations in Afghanistan. They have done good service to our cause by helping needy people and taking the news of the enemy's atrocities to the world.
     Abduction of individuals for political reasons is also contemptible. Jami'at demands the immediate release of Abdur Rahim Chenzai, an aged Afghan journalist who was abducted in Peshawar earlier this summer.
     Jami'at hopes that all Mujahideen parties will work together to prevent acts of violence against aid organizations and individuals. These actions harm all the Mujahideen. It is the collective responsibility of all Mujahideen to fight against such actions which give Afghans a bad name, isolate die Mujahideen and help our enemies— the Soviets and the Kabul regime.
 Border talks are held in Badakhshan
     A three-member delegation of the Mujahideen met with a Soviet delegation in Eshkashim District, Badakhshan Province, to discuss security issues along the common border after the liberation of the area by the Mujahideen, Ahmad Shah Masood reported.
     When the Mujahideen captured Zebak, Wakhan, Eshkashim and Sheghnan Districts, situated along the Soviet border, Soviet border officers approached the Mujahideen to discuss the security problems along the border with the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen accepted the offer and the first round of talks took place in the middle of a bridge over the Oxus River at Eshkashim.
     The two sides agreed that they would not interfere in each other's affairs.
     The Soviet side wanted the Mujahideen to return to them any Soviet citizen who flees to Afghanistan. The Mujahideen told the Soviets that such a decision could only be made by their leaders. The Mujahideen will convey their position on this issue to the Soviets after receiving instructions from the Jami'at leader.
     The Mujahideen demanded the return of the heavy and light weapons taken by regime troops to the Soviet Union after their defeat in Eshkashim. The Soviet side postponed their answer to this demand.
     The two sides discussed ways o' contacting each other in the case of border violations. Soviets proposed extension of a telephone line. The Mujahideen proposed raising a white flag and holding of meeting on the bridge. The two sides could not agree on a procedure.
     The Mujahideen asked the Soviets to withdraw their border guards baset on Afghan soil rind to re-establish their posts on the other side of the river. The Soviets accepted this demand and withdrew die guards. The middle of Eshkashim bridge will mark the border between the two countries.
     Ahmad Shah Masood explainer that die talks had taken place between the local border officials of the two sides, and woe stricdy confined to to security problems along the border. He rejected die report by a Pakistani newspaper claiming that he himself had met with the Soviets.
                                          AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Azizullah Afzali
     Captain Azizullah Afzali, I 42, is the commander of Afzali Front of Jami'at > Islami Afghanistan. He leads about 2800 armed Mujahideen in Ghoryan, Enjeel, Kushk, Adraskan and Guzara Districts in Herat Province.
     He has led the front since Safiullah Afzali, his younger brother and founder of the front, was assassinated by Kabul regime agents in Iran in 1986. Safiullah's Mujahideen chose Captain Azizullah as their leader. The choice was endorsed by Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani.
     Azizullah was bom in Qaisan vil-age in Ghoryan District. His father, Mirza Zabiullah was a respected resident of the area. Azizullah completed his primary education in Ghoryan District, his hometown. He completed the Kabul military school before going on to university.
     Azizullah graduated from the Kabul Military University in 1969 and then served as an officer of the Afghan Army in Nahrin, Baghlan Province, and Rishkhoor garrison in Kabul.
     He joined the Islamic Movement in J973 through his brother, Hafizullah Afzali, who was martyred in Panjshir in an armed encounter with the soldiers of President Daud -- "the Red Prince” -- in 1975. Hafizullah was an active member of the Islamic Movement and a student at Kabul University.
      Azizullah was a captain in the Afghan army when he was jailed in Pul-i-Charkhi Prison by the communist regime in 1979. They suspected him of having links with the Mujahideen. He was released one year later, after the Soviet invasion, in a general amnesty announced by Babrak Karmal. After his release, he returned to Herat and began armed straggle along with the other Mujahideen. Azizullah is married and has four children. His family lives in Ban.
      Under Azizullah's command, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front have been very active against the Soviets and the Kabul regime in various parts of Herat. Here are some of their major operations:
      In 1986, his Mujahideen resisted an enemy attack on their base in Kakara, Gulran District Fighting continued for several weeks. Soviet troops woe also involved in the attack. The enemy retreated after suffering heavy casualties. The bodies of 70 Soviets and regime troops had remained in the
 battlefield. Three tanks and one helicopter of the enemy were destroyed. Several Mujahideen, including Commander Mohammad Qasim, were martyred in the operation.
     In 1987, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front attacked an enemy post inside the city of Herat and captured 25 Kabul regime officers and seized a considerable number of weapons. His Mujahideen were assisted by sympathizers within the post.
     In 1989, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front took an active part in recapturing Jebrael, in Enjeel District. After nine days of fighting, the enemy was forced to retreat. More than 15 enemy troops were killed in this operation. The Mujahideen lost three men.
     In 1990, his Mujahideen liberated Kushk and Nawbadam areas, capturing 15 enemy soldiers and killing many others. A considerable amount of arms and ammunition was seized..
     In 1989, his Mujahideen set fire to an ammunition dump of Division No.17 of Herat. The dump burned for eight hours, killing and wounding many enemy soldiers.
     Afzali Front under the leadership of Commander Azizullah has improved its relations with Ismail Khan, the renowned Jami'at commander in Herat. He took active part in the recent fighting in Zindajan in support of Ismail Khan.
     Afzali Front has been very active in the field of education too. More than 100 schools have been opened by this front in the refugee camps in Iran and in the liberated areas of Herat. In these schools, more than 20,000 students are taught by 300 teachers. A high school for boys by the name of Jami and a high school for girls by the name of Khadijatul Kubra has been opened by the front in Iran. The front has also opened two orphanages in Iran for the Afghan refugees.
     Amina Afzali, the widow of
          To page (3)
             Ashe3tariq%,.. the .Vice President of Syria, paid ah official I visit to Kabul at the end pf July: According to Radio Kabul, he prom-fbi§|p5 Kabul regime               mAVBKk %
     Regime forces face severe difficulties in northern Afghanistansjand are short of weapons and soldiers in their fight against Mujahideen gikjri)| las. a senior militia officer of there-; g$|| has admitted.          -     !
     The government simply doesn't have enough troops in the north and soon this problem is goinp to become critical,’ Abdul Qudoos Pianshi, d% uty chairman of the SAZA militias, fold Reuters,
                                                                    •••
 Turkish | has come out in print. "Mujahid" is the official organ of Jami'at, first published in Persian and Pushtu. ”Mujahid”s Turkish editions will be distributed in Turkey and Cennahy,. St-                  xxf" '
         .
     A missile fired by the Kabul regime has killed two Pakistani soldiers and wotmded two others in Lancfikool, close to die bender with Afghanistan.
     According to Pakistani officials,
                                                      the missile was a Ruskbn-m^b
             ISgg|
  •••

 Unknown gunmen wounded Isayyed Usman Mairanay, an activist of the Afghan Melted Party, a nation-
 tares of the!
New Zealander and three Afj were abducted by tribesmen
AFGHANews Vol7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
 By: Prof. Khalilullah Khalili        Bart {I)
 The first Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
    The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in Dec. 1979 was the third episode of its kind. The first two are little-known and many people are completely tufa-miliar with them. This is an eyewitness account of the first Soviet incursion into Afghanistan, which took place over 60 years ago.
    There are many similarities between the first and the most recent episodes. Many lessons can be learnt by studying them. Professor Khalillulah Khalili, the Afghan poet and historian who died in 1987 at the age of 82, himself a fighter against the first Soviet invaders, recounted this last eyewitness account of those events.
Political situation at the time of the first invasion
    Stalin was in power in Russia and had already occupied the Muslim Central Asian states. King Amanullah, a close friend of Stalin, had been dethroned by an ordinary man, Amir Habibullah Khan (called Bacha-i-Saqaw by his opponents). The deposed king was mobilizing people in Kandahar in an effort to regain his power.
    General Nadir Khan was gathering faces in Paktia to attack Kabul. Stalin decided to send his troops to defeat Amir Habibullah and reinstate the deposed king. In Oder to cover the invasion, he sent Amanullah's ambassador to Moscow, Ghulam Nabi Khan, and a few Afghan students in USSR to Afghanistan to accompany his invading Hoops.
The invasion begins
    It was the beginning of June 1929. The border officer of the central post of the Northern Frontier at Tappa-i-Kassir sent us the following message by telephone: "This morning, a group of strangers crossed the Amu Darya (Oxus River) into Afghanistan. They are all dressed in Afghan army uniforms and are equipped with Russian machineguns and cannons. Their leader call himself Ambassador Ghulam Nabi and they are protected by five aircraft which have flown from Termiz. Our border guards who wanted to stop them were all killed."
    Mirza Mohammad Qasim', die governor of Mazar, soon after receiving this message, contacted Division
 Commander, Sher Ali, at Dehdadi of Mazar. The telephone line between Mazar and Tappa-i-Kassir was cut Commander Sher Ali immediately sent a team to Tappa-i-Kassir to investigate the incident and he himself came to Mazar to get further instructions. After an urgent meeting in the Governor's Office in Mazar, it was decided to dispatch a battalion to Sia Gerd to fight against the strangers who had crossed the Amu River.
     In the late afternoon. Commander Sher Ali informed us that a brigade of 2000 fully equipped men were proceeding toward Mazar-i-Sharif. A local shepherd had told the messenger that the invaders spoke a language he could not understand. Less than two hours later, another messenger from Sia Gerd told us that fighting had begun but that the defenders' numbers, arms and ammunition, were not sufficient to repel the invaders.
     It was instantly decided that a message be sent to Kabul to inform the au-thorites of the incident, and to call all the influential people, ulamas, provincial judges and high-ranking officers of Mazar to a meeting in order to discuss the situation.
     That same night, the Soviet consulate in Mazar secretly distributed leaflets in the city and in Dehdadi garrison asking the people to support the forces led by Ghulam Nabi.
     The next day, the first group to arrive at Salam Khana (a reception hall at the governor's office) was headed by the most respected religious figure of the north. Da Mullah Audeena Mohammad Arab. Mirza Mohammad Qasim and others asked Da Mullah Arab to preside over the meeting. The Russian invasion, killing of the Afghan border guards and fighting in Sia Gerd were discussed. Proclamations signed by Ghulam Nabi Khan were read out in the meeting.
     Mawlawi Ghulam Haider Mazari, one of Da Mullah Arab's disciples, declared Jehad after those present had deliberated on the relevant Sharia rulings. Commander Sher Ali suggested that the matter be discussed with'military officers at Dehdadi, and their consent be obtained, before declaring Jehad (holy war).
     Hearing this. Da mullah Arab stood up and said firmly that "Whether the military officers agree with us or not, we declare Jehad for the sake of protection of our religion, honor and
 country.”
     All present in the meeting, including Commander Sher Ali, accepted Da Mullah Arab's verdict on Jehad. I was instructed to draft the Jehad declaration. I am still proud of drafting the decision-of that historical meeting, which was printed in Mazar with the help of the editor of the "Ittihad" newspaper and circulated all over the province.
     The meeting also decided the following points:
     (1)      A force of battalion strength should be sent to Balkh. The governor of Mazar and three Ulamas should accompany the force.
     (2)      Permanent contact should be established between the Khalifa of Qezel Ayaq and Balkh.
     (3)      Sufficient supplies of food should be stored.
     (4)      The road between Balkh and Maimana and Balkh and Dehdadi should be protected so that they would not fall into the enemies' hands.
     It was also decided that the spiritual influence of Da Mullah Arab should be utilized effectively and that Mirza Mohammad Qasim, the governor of Mazar, should cooperate with him.
     From Salam Khana all the participants of the meeting went to Hazrat-i-Ali's (May Allah be pleased with him) shrine (1). Thousands of people joined them. They woe shouting Allahu ak-bar! Allahu akbar! (God is great).
     (Note 1:    Mazar-i-Sharif  means
 Holy Shrine )
 Balkh
     I and my group arrived in Balkh and camped at the ruins of the historical Balkh Fort which was ova looking the area. Arbab Ayoub of the Safi Push toons of Balkh, along with Sultan Mohammad and Noor Mohammad Safi, joined me. They could not believe that Ghulam Nabi, the son of a respected and reputable Afghan general named Ghulam Sediq Charkhi, could commit the sin of bringing Soviet troops to Afghanistan. But the declaration of Jehad by itself was enough to convince everyone to join die antiinvasion movement.
     I sent the declaration of Jehad, backed up by .a personal message, to the Khalifa of Qezel Ayak and other notables of Aqcha and Andkhoy, informing them of the dangers threatening the country and its people. A group of honest people was assigned to buy food and store it.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page Q
    There was no communication system to connect us to the center. However, we posted some riders on the highway between Balkh and Dehdadi to relay our messages back and forth as quickly as possible. The messengers on horse back were called "chappar" by the local people.
    One day after arrival at Balkh at three o'clock in the afternoon, a group of about 300 Russian soldiers, most of them mounted, took up positions in the brush close to the fort. Our men attacked them, and after four hours of fighting they withdrew in the middle of the night. Our casualties were ten killed and some wounded. Later it was understood that their retreat was a deceptive tactic to divert our attention from the main column of the enemy proceeding towards the city of Mazar.
 I received a message from the division commando-, Sher Ali Khan, instructing me to come urgently to Dehdadi. While eaving behind some troops to protect the road, I and a battalion of soldiers from Kohdaman and Estalif proceeded towards Dehdadi. On the way to Dehdadi I received the news that the enemy soldiers had besieged our forces at Sia Gerd and martyred them all.
      After the defeat of our forces in Sia Gerd, the Russian soldiers advanced to Mazar. They attacked the city from three directions. After crushing the resistance in several places, they entered the city. The governor escaped to Dehdadi. The Holy Shrine of Ali and the city of Mazar fell into the hands of the infidel Russian soldiers for the first time in the city's history.
      I arrived in Dehdadi at the time of telephone conversation between the Division commander, Sher Ali, and Ghulam Nabi. Ghulam Nabi said: "King Amanullah Khan has bravely captured Kabul . The people of. Kabul have accepted him as their king. King Habibullah Khan has been killed. With the instruction from King Amanullah,
  I have gathered Afghans living abroad and with the help of some Uzbak brothers from Soviet Union have captured
 the city of Mazar without any resistance from the people. You should also give up and pledge your Biaat (allegiance ) to me."
     Sher Ali responded that he would pass the message to other officers and would reply after consulting them.
     An urgent meeting of high ranking officers was held at Dehdadi. Sher Ali informed the officers of Ghulam Nabi's treasonable capture of Mazar, with the help of Russian soldiers, and he read out the message Ghulam Nabi had sent from Mazar regarding the fall of King Habibullah Khan and the victory erf Amanullah. The officers decided that since the situation in Kabul was not clear and Ghulam Nabi had entered Mazar with the help of the foreign forces, which was an insult to Islam and their country, they would not give up.
     In order to buy time to mobilize our forces, the meeting decided to ask Ghulam Nabi to allow our representative to go to Mazar and telegraph Kabul to see if the news of King Amanullah's return and Habibullah Khan's death were true, after which they would announce their decision. It was also decided that I should talk to Ghulam Nabi by telephone and convey the decision of the meeting to him. I was very interested in talking to a respected Afghan general like Ghulam Nabi Khan, to find out how he had been able to convince his conscience to rely on foreign forces in order to seize power. When we spoke he said I should personally convey to him the Biaat (allegiance) of the army at Dehdadi. This would, he said render me eligible for mercy from His Majesty King Amanullah.
      "Where is His Majesty?" I asked. "(He is) wherever he is," he replied. I read out the message of the meeting to him. After a minute or two during which he talked to someone in a different language, he answered: "There is no need to send someone to Mazar to talk to Kabul." The line was cut.
                   To be continued
SAZA leader concedes defeat
    A forma- Deputy Prime Minister of the Kabul regime and the chief of SAZA communist faction, Mahboobullah Kooshani, has said the summer's victories by Mujahideen in northeastern Afghanistan are signs of the regime's weakness rather than Mujahideen strength. He admitted, however, that Ahmad Shah Masood's recent gains in that region signaled Masood's growing political importance.
    Returning from Faizabad , the provincial capital of Badakhshan, Kooshani said Kabul regime troops were not ready to fight.
    He stated that the Kabul regime was politically weak in northeast Afghanistan because the people of the area believed that it was illegal and brought to power by the Soviet Union.
    SAZA lost several erf its bases in Takhar to Mujahideen under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood.
 OIC praises Mujahideen
    The 20th Conference of Islamic Foreign Ministers has lauded the role of the Afghan Mujahideen in liberating their country, and has called for a comprehensive political solution of the Afghan issue.
    The conference, in Istanbul, Turkey from August 4 through 8, supported UN efforts to find a political settlement to the issue and has recommended that OIC play an active role in fulfillment of this aim. It supported the efforts of the Mujahideen to form a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
    The conference decided to contin ue humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and work for the re-partriation and rehabilitation of the refugees in cooperation with Iran and Pakistan. It appealed to all member states to extend financial and moral support for the reconstruction efforts recommended by the       Islamic
 Development Bank.
    The Mujahideen woe represented at the conference by a five-member delegation headed by Prof. Rabbani.
    Talking to VOA, Prof. Rabbani expressed his pleasure at the decisions taken on Afghanistan, which he sai( confirmed the position    of the
 Mujahideen.
    Prof. Rabbani said the tripartite conference held in Islamabad with the participation of Iran, Pakistan and the Afghan Mujahideen had been a usefu move before convening the OIC meeting. The Islamabad meeting had a positive effect on the decisions of the OIC conference regarding Afghanistan.
    The Jami'at leader said Afghan issues will be on the agenda of the Islamic Foreign Ministers' meeting in Senegal, and may be included mi the agenda of the OIC summit as well.
    He said, the views of the Mujahideen delegation were included in the final declaration of the conference.
    Earlier, some circles had expressed doubt whether the OIC would invite the Mujahideen to attend die Istanbul conference. The Afghan Interim Government is a member of die OIC.
    The Kabul regime, which was expelled from the OIC in 1980, wants to regain the Afghan seat with the help o' some its friends in that organization, Kabul asked the visiting Vice President of Syria to help the regime win back the Afghan seat in at the OIC.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 16, August 15,1991, page ©
Sheghnan liberated
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at, under the command of Abdul Basir Khalid, liberated Sheghnan District, Badakhshan Province, on August 3, Hindukush News Agency reported.
     The Mujahideen : captured 300 enemy soldiers and killed or wound 66. They seized die following weapons from the enemy:
     • Howitzers: 3
     •     Mortar (120 mm): 1
     •     Mortar (82 mm): 2
     •     RPG-7 rocket launchers: 5
     ■AGS-17 grenade launchers: 5
     ■     ZPU mchine-guns: 3
     ■ Light weapons of
 different types: 500
     •     Large quantities of ammunition
     Three Mujahideen were killed and eight were injured in the operation. This is the fourth district which has fallen to the Mujahideen in Badakhshan in the past month.
     Sheghnan is situated near the Soviet border. Its inhabitants are mainly Ismailis. It has been dominated by the Khalq faction of the PDPA.
     This is the first time that Sheghnan
Abdul Basir Kahldid
 has been captured. Sheghnan militia have fought throughout much of - Badakhshan since the start of die war.
     Khalqis gained influence in Sheghnan through a number of students who studied in Ibn-i-Sina and Darul MoalUmeen Schools in Kabul, which were Khalqi strongholds. Hafizullah Amin, the second Khalqi leader, once served as the principle of Ibn-i-Sina schooL
     With the fall of Sheghnan, Faizabad remains the only major enemy base in the province. Recently
 Mujahideen attacked military installations in the city with ground-to-ground rockets. Increased fighting         in
 Badakhshan has forced the UN to abandon its humanitarian projects in the province. Besides Faizabad, the Kabul regime has a presence in some areas of Darwaz close to the Soviet border.
     Basir Khalid is a Jami'at commander who controls large areas around Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan. He cooperates with the Supervisory Council headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
IVlujaliideen ban poppy
 growing in
    An aid worker returning from Badakhshan Province disputed a report published in London about an increase in poppy cultivation in that province.
    Mirwais Jalil, a resident of Laghman Province who works for a relief organization, told BBC that he did not see any poppy cultivation in some parts of Badakhshan. In other areas, he said, it was limited to small plots of land. Most of the farms were cultivating wheat.
    He said the Mujahideen commanders in Badakhshan have banned poppy cultivationT'This is the reason for a sharp decrease in poppy cultivation in that province, despite soaring prices of opitim which could be tempting for
 poor people.
     In some areas of Badakhshan farm-os have traditionally cultivated poppy. The opium obtained was used for medical purposes, and some was sold in remote border areas (mainly inhabited by Ismailis) where people were addicted to it
     The future of poppy cultivation in Badakhshan looks dark because Jamiat Mujahideen are opposed to it on religious grounds. They are also trying to find alternative means of living for the local people by starting development projects. Any assistance by the con-coned international organizations could make the Mujahideen's job of fighting drug abuse much easier.
                         REGIME ISSUES LOOTING PERMIT
     A milita commander has told a Western journalist in the northern city of Mazar that the Kabul regime has given him permission to loot areas that he captures from the Mujahideen. The journalist, who visited Mazar-i-Sharif recently, reported that the ordinary people in Mazar complained of militia excesses against them.
     A militia commander. Colonel Hashmat, told the reporter that the Kabul regime has given the militias permission to loot the areas they capture from the Mujahideen.
     The reporter said that the Kabul regime's militia forces are a means to terrorize the regime's opponents.
     The militia commadner told him that if the regime did not pay him a good salary, he would change sides and fight against KabuL
     Colonel Hashmat, who belongs to Rashid Dustam's militia group said he was opposed to the return of peace in Afghanistan becaue he would lose his influence.
     Mir Abdur Rahim Ansari, the governor of Mazar, admitted that it is now beyond the Najibullah regime's ability to control the militia groups.
     A regime security officer in Mazar said Dustam militiamen cut off Mazar’s electricity some time ago, apparently protesting the lack of electricity in then-own area. He said militia commanders act like kings in their areas, and there is nobody to stop them from doing whatever they want
     International relief organization in Mazar have said militia forces are disintegrating into smaller groups who launch independent operations in their respective areas. Violations of law and order have increased in the areas under control of militiamen.
 Help us publish
 AFGHANews!
                                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
          JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tgfrkal Bala, Peshawar 'Pakistan