Vol 8, No 17                                         September 1,1992
  Ceasefire agreement silences Kabul guns
     After a month of fighting, killing 25 people and injuring 50 bardment The people may have mis-during which thousands of citi- others.                        givings about the government, but they
  zens of Kabul were killed or Gulbuddin's artillerymen - Khalqi proved unwilling to replace it with a wounded and tens Of thou- officers from the fallen communist re- Hezb-Khalq coalition whose thirst for sands Others took refuge in the gime - targeted residential areas, em- power had killed and hurt thousands tif provinces or outside the coun- bassies, fuel depots and hospitals with innocents.
  try, a ceasefire was announced shells and rockets.               Gulbuddin’s efforts to form a coali-
  at‘12:00 noon on August 29, Hezb launched its last infantry as- tion with other Mujahideen parties ' The ceasefire was the result of sault on Kabul on August 25 from the against the government failed. His rhet-mediation by the commanders direction of Pul-i-Charkhi. After three one against "militia" and "remnants of of Jalalabad and peace efforts hours of fierce fighting, this attack was the communist elements" in Kabul of the government of Pakistan, repulsed, like all their previous efforts failed to rally people around him. He
     According to the ceasefire agree- to advance on the ground.  tried desperately to open a front from
  meat, Hezb forces are to withdraw Hezb's communist artillery units the North, but the Hezb commanders from their positions around the capi- were well-disciplined and organized, from Shortiali by and large refused to tal and the Mujahideen of other par- but their ground troops showed little carry out his orders. Some of his fol-ties from six neighboring provinces persistence or fighting spirit ” lowers fiipd rockets into Charikar, the will'be deployed in their positions. The government forces, which had provincial capital of Pafwan 50 kilome-Under the terms of the agreement, been caught by surprise at the start of ters north of Kabul, to provoke a reac-Hezb will purge the communists of battle, greatly improved their perfor- don. But the government forces did not Khalq faction and militias that have mance through on-the-job training. In respond in kind, joined it and the government will im- particular, coordination between Part of Hekmatyar’s strategy was plement all the previous decisions of ground forces and artillery units im- to isolate the Islamic government inter-the Leadership Council in regard to proved dramatically by the end of the nationally. To achieve this, he fired the security in Kabul. A commission fighting. The air force also played an rockets into the diplomatic enclave of of commanders and religious schol- outstanding role in thwarting Wazir Akbar Khan and the Russia em-ars will be formed to determine Gulbuddin's offensive. The Mujahideen bassy in southern Kabul. Two Russians which side started the war.     defending Kabul fought bravely and L- were killed Mid three were wounded.
     The mediation efforts were initiat- captured many strategic points from The Bulgarian ambassador was also -ed in Peshawar by Mawlawi Nabi Hezb in and around Chelsetoon.  wounded in an attack. Two Afghan UN
  Mohammadi and Mawlawi Khalis one Though Hekmatyar had prepared workers were killed, as were two week after the start of the war. In the for the offensive for three months, the Afghan employees of the French meantime, the government of Pakistan government had wrongly believed that embassy.
  called on the Mujahideen to end hostili- such an attack was unlikely. When it These, attacks prompted what one ties. A group of commanders from was launched, the government was not diplomat, whose mission stayed open, Jalalabad, headed by Engineer fully prepared.                  bluntly referred to as "a panic." The
  Mahmood from Khalis1 party and The government’s failure to pro- embassies of France, Italy* Russia and Shomali Khan, a commander of NIFA, vide security for the people of Kabul, most other missions closed. Those visited Kabul to persuade the two sides infighting between Hezb Wahdat and which remained reduced their staffs, to agree on a ceasefire. A Pakistani Prof. Sayyafs Ittihad faction, and Hezb .All non-Afghan UN personnel fled, peace delegation, headed by Foreign efforts to buy off local commanders and UN operations in Kabul were sus-Minister Mohammad Siddiq Kanju, vis- around Kabul had made Hikmatyar pended. Most left by road to the border ited Kabul for the same reason. hopeful of victory. He assumed the town of Termiz, and then were flown to
     Hezb's criminal attacks continued people would turn their backs against their countries. Others left via till the last moment. Fifteen minutes be- the government as soon as the offensive Jalalabad.
  fore the ceasefire was to take effect, began.                      The Russians wanted to evacuate
  Hezb fired dozens of rockets into a resi- But the ordinary people of Kabul.
  dential area in Khair Khana district, were the main victims of Hezb’s bom- 99* To p<lgC (6)
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
helps war victims
    Sandy Gall was in Kabul for two weeks during July - accompanied by two of his daughters, Carlotta and Michaela ■ partly to inform himself about the political situation here and partly to look into the needs of the Afghan disabled. He started his charity, the Sandy Gall Afghanistan Appeal, to provide limbs for disabled Afghans in 1983, after his first visit to the Panjshir 1982. Commarfder Masood had asked him to help- provide treatment for Commander Abdul Wahid, who had lost a leg in a mine accident.
    The Appeal began its work in Peshawar in 1986, setting up a woik-shop in the Lady Reading Hospital and later moving into the Integrated Training Center (ITC) in Hayatabad in 1989. Apart from providing artificial limbs for Afghan men, women and children wounded in the war, SGAA from the outset set itself the task of training developing a major physiotherapy program.
    Today, the Appeal has a staff of more than 50 trained Afghan technicians who are ready to move into Afghanistan and start work here.
    In a two week visit to Kabul Mr. Gall met the Minister of Health, Dr. Mujaddidi, who gave him a warm welcome, and various members of the ministry. He also visited the Indira Gandhi Children's Hospital; the Wazir.Akbar
 Khan Orthopaedic Center, the physiotherapy school run by IAM, the ICRC hospital and workshop, and various UN offices, including WHO, who Finance two SGAA workshops already functioning in Afghanistan (Rukha in the Panjshir and Wardak, just opened). WHO also funds the SGAA workshop making artificial limb components in Peshawar.
     "Our plan, in brief, is to move all our activities, including our main workshop, treating disabled Afghans, the component workshop and our physio program into Afghanistan as soon as possible," said Gall.
     Gall added that he was drawing up a report "which we will submit to the government in Kabul, the UN and other interested NGOs and which will probably include a proposal to move our main workshop to Jalalabad, our component workshop and physio programme to Kabul and our Rukha workshop - set up in wartime conditions - to a bigger catchment area further north."
     In this way SGAA would divide its efforts equally between the northern and southern halves of the country. The charity is still considering the future of the Wardak workshop which seems to be in too small a catchment area
     "Our desire remains to be of the greatest possible service to the Afghan nation," said Gall.
Grand Ayatullah dies
     The Afghan Shia community mourned the death of Grand Ayatollah Abu Qassim Khoi, who died on August 7 at age 92.
     Ayatollah Khoi was a famous Shia spiritual leader and a great Muslim scholar. A large part of the Afghan Shia community were his followers.
     He died in his hometown of .Kufa of a "chronic illness" and was buried in the nearby holy cityofNajaf.
     Officials in Iran and Lebanon, the two other countries with majority or large Shia communities, declared three days of public mourning .
     To prevent another uprising or
 anti-government demonstrations, Iraqi troops surrounded Najaf on August 7, according to the Islamic Action Organization.
     Khoi’s role in the uprising of the Shias of southern Iraq after the Gulf war is unclear. He was regarded as politically moderate. A statement from Khoi calling for civil disobedience was distributed in Lebanon during the uprising, but the Grand Ayatollah never confirmed it.
     On March 20 last year he appeared on Iraqi television praising God for having allowed Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to end the discord. The opposition and Khoi’s family said he appeared under duress.
                                                  PTV depicts Afghan war
    Pakistan Television Peshawar Center will telecast 'Shanakht', an Urdu drama depicting the freedom struggle of the Afghan people, in a couple of weeks.
    The play portrays the 14-year-long struggle of Afghans, who faced unspeakable difficulties during their stay in Pakistan as well as on the war front. In the drama they give a tough time to an invading superpower.
    Habib Mehtab plays the role of an Afghan Mujahid by the name of Amanullah. He fights his enemies on the war front with vigor and scant regard for worldly luxuries.
    The drama is produced by a well-known'producer, Tariq Saeed.
    The drama was filmed in the tribal areas of Pakistan, and heavy weapons were used in the shooting.
                                                Dutch give aid for Afghans
    A huge US military C-5 transport plane arrived in Islamabad on August 12, bringing 36 pallets of medical supplies and cold weather clothing for the Afghan people.
    The flight was funded by the McCollum Afghan Humanitarian Relief Program, a joint project of the US Department of Defense and the office of the US Agency for International Development representative for Afghanistan affairs. ■
    The McCollum program also evacuates, Afghan war wounded for medical treatment in the United States and Europe.
     The airlift was the 106th flight since this program began in i986.
    Meanwhile, the Netherlands' government has. also provided five million Dutch guilders (S3 million) in assistance to Afghanistan.
    The donation, whicji is to support the activities of WFP, UNICEF, UNHCR and UNOCA, will be used for provision of medicines, water supply, education, voluntary repatriation and mine clearance.
\
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr.Mahmood Khan
com* to him
    Mahmood Khan is Jami'at mander. in Khash sub-Disrict of Badakhshan Province, He is a close associate of Sayyed Najmuddin, the General Commander of Mujahideen in Badakhshan.
    When Kabul was about to fall. Commander Masood asked Sayyed Najmuddin to send his Mujahideen to take part in . the operation on Kabul. Mahmood Khan was sent at the head of 700 Mujahideen. They were flown to Kabul and were stationed in the airport and the presidential palace.
                                                                                                    Mahmood Khan served as an offi-
             / 1
 cer of the Afghan army in Paktika Province until 1979. He was part of a. unit of 40 officers and soldiers, four of, whom were communists. Mahmood Khan encouraged the noncommunist officers and soldiers to rise against the regime. They made a secret deal with the Mujahideen. The communist officers were tied’up with ropes by the noncommunist officers, who then al-owed the Mujahideen to enter their Ijase. Over 400 heavy and light weapons were seized by the Mujahideen: After this incident, Mahmood Khan migrated to Peshawar.
      Mahmood Khan returned to Badakhshan with a group of Mujahideen in the Summer of 1979. they liberated Jurm and then lost it to the enemy due to shortages of ammunition and lack of experience in war. The district was liberated for the second time in the fall of the same year. The Mujahideen also liberated Baharak and Khash. More than 1700 heavy and light weapons were seized. Mahmood was appointed commander of his hometown, Uiash.
      After the fall of Jurm, Baharak and Khash the Mujahideen advanced towards Faizabad, the provincial capital. Mahmood Khan was instructed to attack Faizabad from direction of Khash. The Mujahideen captured many security posts of Faizabad and brought a section of the city under their control. The Red Army entered Into Afghanistan and due to heavy aerial bombardments the Mujahideen retreated.
      In 1980, the Soviet forces launched a big offensive against the Mujahideen in Khash, Baharak and Jurm. The Mujahideen were forced to retreat. Mahmood went to Peshawar to bring arms and ammunition to fight the Russian. He returned to Jurm with some weapons and ammunition given
 by Jami'at H,e defeated the communist forces in Khash and liberated it. ,
     He took part in an attack against Jurm In 1981 but the Mujahideen retreated after suffering some casualties.
     Besides fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviets, Jurm was witness to infighting between the Mujahideen themselves. Several important commanders of the Mujahideen were killed in these infightings. Mahmood Khan skillfully avoided taking part in these senseless clashes.
     When Sayyed Najmuddin was driven out of Wardooj valley by the Russians in 1984, he retreated to Khash. Mahmood Khan gave shelter to him and helped him to return to Wardooj and liberate it again.
     When the Soviet forces left Afghanistan in 1989, the Mujahideen launched an attack on the regime's garrison in Baharak. Mahmood Khan took part in this operation, which led to the liberation of the district. In 1990, the Mujahideeen of Mahmood Khan took part in fighting which led to the liberation of Zebak, Ishkashim and Wakhan districts, situated along the border with Tajikistan.
     Mahmood Khan was bom 48 years ago in the village Shahran, Jurm District. His father, Dadar Khan, was a farmer working on his own land. Mahmood Khan started primary studies in his native village. In 1952 he attend-' ed the Nfilitary School of Kabul. In 1954 he graduated from the military school and started work in Kabul. Later, he served in Kandahar, Bagram and Ghazni before being sent to Paktika.
asruddin's ables
 Assumptions
 "What is the meaning of fate, Nasruddin?"
 "Assumptions."
 "You assume things are going and they don’t - that you call bad luck You assume things are going to go badly and they don’t - that you call good luck. You assume that certain things are going to happen or not happen and you so lack intuition that you don’t know what is going to happen. You assume that the future is unknown
     "What you are caught out - you call that Fate."
 Just purpose...
     Nasruddin was walking down the village street deep in thought, when some urchins began to throw stones at him. He was taken by surprise, and besides he was not a big man.
     "Don't do that, and I will tell you something of interest to you."
     "All right, what is it? But no philosophy."
     "The Emir is giving a free banquet to all comers."
     The children ran off towards the Emir's house as Nasruddin warmed to his theme, the delicacies and the delights of entertainment...
     He looked up and saw them disappearing in the distance. Suddenly he tucked up his robes and started to sprint after them. "I'd better go and see," he panted to himself, "because it might be true after all.”
                                                                      a rnu a q Mr, n , September 1,1992, page Ql               
                                                            ArOriAJMeWS VOi o, iNO 1/                                           
                                                                                  hhh               FAIR WEATHER                
' " \                                                                                                 LEADERS!                  
Editorial                                                                             The behavior of some of the lead¬         
                                                                                      ers of Mujahideen parties and minis¬      
                                                                                      ters of the Islamic government. was       
                                                                                      very irresponsible during Gulbuddin’s     
                                                                                      offensive on Kabul.                       
                                                                                      Farid, the prime minister, left           
Stop helping Gulbuddin!                                                               Kabul just before the fighting began to   
All Islamic countries are duty- and honor-bound to maintain their support for         visit Pakistan and Iran. He defended      
the legitimate Islamic government in Afghanistan, and to take no part in efforts to   his party’s attack on Kabul.              
destabilize it. This applies especially to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, which    Younus Khalis, the leader of Hezb         
supported Jehad throughout the Soviet occupation here.                                Islami (Khalis group) left Kabul for      
Gulbuddin Hikmatyar on August 10 launched a bid to seize absolute power               Peshawar after announcing his resigna¬    
in Kabul by force. The effort ended almost three weeks later in bloody and de¬        tion from the Leadership Council          
structive failure. During the "offensive" - really a terrorist campaign, in which his through the media, after levelling accu¬  
men killed and wounded thousands of. civilians in rocket attacks targeting mar¬       sations against the president and minis¬  
kets and residential neighborhoods - Hikmatyar received weapons from abroad.          ter of defense. During the war, howev¬    
Meanwhile, he waged his political and propaganda war against the Islamic gov¬         er, he volunteered to act as a peace¬     
ernment from secure bases in Peshawar and Islamabad.                                  maker between the two sides.              
The government and people of Afghanistan welcomed Pakistan Prime                      Prof. Sayyaf, another member of           
Minister Nawaz Sharif s statement that he would riot allow elements trying to un¬     the Leadership Council, has chosen        
dermine the legitimate Afghan government to use Pakistani territory. But while        Paghman as a base, and never came to      
Sharifs good intentions and sincerity are beyond doubt, there is plenty of evi¬       Kabul to attend the Leadership            
dences that his Afghan policy is also being undermined. Pakistan should also ban      Council. His deputy, Eng. Ahmad           
political, economic and propaganda activities by enemies of Afghnistan’s Islamic      Shah, who is also the minister of the in¬ 
government.                                                                           terior, remained in Peshawar during the   
The Pakistan government's announcement that it had stopped 14 trucks car¬             fighting.                                 
rying weapons to Hikmatyar, along with , demands by the people of Bajawar for         Dr. Najibulah Mujaddidi resigned          
the removal of Hikmatyar's weapon depots from their agency, proves that Hezb          from his post as the health minister and  
‘has been receiving aim's and ammunition from across the border.                      gave an interview to BBC railing          
Despite Pakistan's claim that it has imposed tighter border controls, eye¬            against the government. During the        
witnesses report that convoys of Pakistani trucks brought supplies to Hikmatyar's     war, he apparently changed his mind       
base at Char Asyab, "south of Kabul, after the ceasefire look effect x .              and started to act as health minister     
Hezb has a news agency in Islamabad, and publishes its daily Shahadat from            from Peshawar. It is not clear how he     
Peshawar. The party receives funds from supporters in the Middle. East and else¬      was re-appointed to the post. The depu¬   
where via Pakistani banks. War is an expensive business; Hikmatyar could not          ty health minister also remained in       
have launched his attack without funds and supplies from outside.                     Peshawar for most pan of the fighting     
Scores of Arab and Pakistani volunteers fought in the ranks of Hikmatyar's            while the hospitals in Kabul were full    
forces. Some have been captured or killed. These volunteers enter Afghanistan il¬     of wounded people suffering from the      
legally through Pakistan.                                                             lack of power and water and shortages     
Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the Amir of the Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, actively               of medicine.                              
. supports Hikmatyar's sedition, sending fighters and-experts to keep Hezb’s terror   Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, the               
machine running.                                                                      Vice President of Afghanistan, who        
Hikmatyar has many supporters Tn the Pakistan Army. Through their good                was in Peshawar, joined the peace mis¬    
offices he received the single biggest share of foreign funds and equipment sup¬      sion after passing judgement blaming      
plied to the Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation., These elements in              both the government and Hezb for the      
Pakistan still support Hikmatyar irehis war to grab power.                            start of the war.                         
Their investment in Hezb Islami, however, proved a waste of time and mon¬             ^ Sibghatullah Mujaddidi. has been        
ey. Hezb fought little against the Soviets. They concentrated instead on attacking    in America since he unwillingly trans¬    
other Mujahideen, because Hikmatyar was and remains unwilling to join                 ferred power to Prof. Rabbani almost      
Afghanistan's other forces in a political process. He wants rule Afghanistan sin¬     three months ago. While criticizing       
gle-handedly - an impossible task. ,                                                  Hikmatyar for launching the attack on     
In spite of the arms stockpiles and millions of dollars he received during the        Kabul, he also demanded the removal       
1980s, power has eluded him. Terrorism against the government arid especially         of President Rabbani and Defense          
the people of Afghanistan won't work, as the events of August proved.                 Minister Masood from office. The          
Pakistan won the admiration of Afghans and the rest of the world for sup¬             Minister of Water and Power and other     
porting Jehad and giving shelter to millions of Afghan refugees, and her govern¬      several prominent members of various      
ment and people have much to be proud of. They should try hard not to spoil           parties also went back into exile.        
their achievements by supporting Hezb Islami terrorism, thus further-whetting         .The people expected these men to         
Hekmatyar's hunger for power and thirst for blood.                                    remain in Kabul to help die ordinary      
                                                                                      people in the time of crisis. It is be¬   
                                                                                      lieved that these people went abroad in   
                                                                                      order to avoid getting involved in fight¬ 
                                                                                      ing between Hezb and the Islamic          
                                                                                      government.'                              
                                                                                                                                
AFGHANews Vol 8, Na 17, September 1, 1992, page ©
      Dear editor.
      Please accept our warm congratulations on sending us your first edition from Islamic and free Kabul.
      I hope that you will continue to send AFGHANews to us. Please keep us advised on the development of an Islamic banking system in Afghanistan.
      Once again, we pray for the continued success of Afghan Muslims in establishing a flourishing Islamic state. May Allah guide you all.
      Abdulkader California - USA
     /
      Dear editor,
      AFGHANews and other Mujahideen publications played an important role in the victory of Afghan people. I hope that publications of the new Islamic government in Afghanistan will play a constructive role in the future. We have received the 10th and 11th issues of AFGHANews published in Kabul.
      Eng. F. Umar Jami'at representative Delhi - India '
      Dear editor,
      I congratulate you on transfer of the office of AFGHANews from Peshawar to Kabul and wish your success. I was happy to receive my favorite publication from Afghanistan. I always duplicate AFGHANews and distribute it among Afghans in Canada and the United States.
      I distributed the two last issues in great number to inform the people about the true situation in Afghanistan because some people have waged a propaganda war to defame the Islamic government in Kabul.
      AbdUl Karim Safi Chairman of Afghan Association of British Columbia Canada
      Dear editor, .
      Thank you so much for sending me your admirable journal! It is with great joy and relief I notice that you have now been able to move your editorial office to Kabul. I wish you all success in your important work for the development of an independent and democratic Afghanistan.
      Your journal always struck me as
 being remarkably balanced and outspoken for a party publication. I hope that you will be able to continue and strengthen this tradition in the new situation, when your party is taking a great part of the responsibility of shaping a new Afghanistan. Furthermore, I hope that other journals and newspapers, representing other groups and interests, will contribute to a truly pluralistic public debate on the many burning issues that face your country. It is my conviction that open discussion, also of sensitive matters, guarantees the vitality of any society.
     With best wishes and kindest regards,
     Youfs sincerely
     Prof. Bo Utas                      x
     Upsala University
     Sweden
     Dear editor,
     I was delighted to receive AFGHANews from Kabul. It is really jolly good that you are there again. I do appreciate your sending me the news each fortnight.
     My very best wishes,
     Juliet
     London- U.K.
     Dear editor.
     We, the students of Dhaka Medical College, have organized a Study circle. We want to read your publication regularly. Please continue to send us AFGHANews.
     Sincerely yours,
     G;M.K. Sadi Dhaka- Bangladesh.
     Diear editor,
     I congratulate all the Mujahideen on the occasion of their grand victory and pray to Almighty Allah to save the Islamic revolution which was achieved by the great sacrifices of the Afghan nation.
     Some elements who have lost ‘he chance of becoming rulers get together here and speak against the Mujahideen and the national unity of Afghanistan. I am sure their efforts will lead nowhere.
     I am sending a poem (in Persian) to be published in of the publications of the Mujahideen.
     Abdul Hay Shabgeer Geneva - Switzerland.
 l|||||!l!!ii||||:||ireier^'j  te?-
                                                                                                    j Grigoriari-;cqjmiriandeSr: of the former • Rephbtic’s aimed forces as
                                                                                                                              :®®§1
 :S^ditar-1^||^^ncy,' ■
                                                                                                                               . 56,' was
 deputy commander of the Chief of Staff of the Soviet , land forces in
           0$    :sby jet; -army in
                                                                                                     start pMradbih of a local Pustu daily is presently published
 in die cbmpany of: Afghanistan’s Information | Minister, | Siddique ;£hakaii to finalize preparations for
                     i mi
 illllll ...            •.
                                                                                                    HI Jgibggt Islam! iof Pakisteii hai : froni|fehawar: ;• develop
 Merits in Afghanistan,
 |||;: i •;A' 'Jamaaf-;«mirice said march would be undertaken in the near f|§: The caravaii: was t&lieave on August 12 a(rid^: jtarrr arai -Qazi
 Jalalabad;                     111
   ; The governor of Indian-occupied Kashmir has contradicted the statement of the Indian home minister that ' Afghan Mujahideen were fighting in Kashmir,             - ,
 I In an interview to the Sunday Observer, Governor Saxena categorically said that the idea of Afghan Mujahideen aiding the Kashmiri separatists was "incorrect and merely a rumor,”
 jfeff -Is If!## :|i;
   ; - ;lrari and Afghanistan oh-August 4? signed £ protocol to cooperate in television programs. The document was signed by Mr. Tabeshian for the
 Islamic v .**: • Bepbblic .* *. of >v..: ••. . ban
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
silences Kabul guns
                                From page (1)
their remaining 172 diplomats and other foreign staff by air. The government" announced a 10-hour ceasefire oh August 27. Hezb had earlier agreed to such a ceasefire. But when the three IL-76 Russian transport planes landed in Kabul, Hezb rocketed the runway, destroying one plane and injuring several Soviet troops who had flown in as a security detachment. Most of the Russians got out on the two planes which survived. An Afghan military transport plane took the remaining staff, including the Russian ambassador, to Mazar-i-Sharif the next day.
     The Red Cross remained in Kabul to extend humanitarian assistance to the needy people. So has Halo Trust, a“ UN-funded British charity engaged in demining operations. Ironically, these are the only international organizations who have had foreign employees killed in the line of duty since the Islamic revolution in April.
     Three western journalists remained in Kabul to report the war. But due to disrupted communications and the closure of the airport to civilian flights, war coverage from Kabul was often sketchy.          '
     Hezb's "Afghan News Agency," based in Islamabad, a safe distance from the mayhem their party was inflicting in Kabul, filled die gap. As a result, the war coverage was generally negative from the government’s point of view. At one point, BBC in London inexplicably allowed a Hezb spokesman to read a communique over the air - % favor which would have prompted world-wide outrage had it been granted to Hekmatyar’s fellow terrorists in the IRA, PLO, or the government of Iraq, for example.
     Hezb's rocket attacks created tremendous problems for the people of Kabul; as many as 2,000 people were killed and several thousand were wounded. Streams of people left their homes and took refuge in die provinces or Pakistan;        1
     Many went north, some to Mazar, others to towns and villages along the Salang highway. Some took refuge in safer areas of Kabul, especially Khair Khana. Even the notorious- Pul-i-Charkhi prison had the privilege of sheltering some of the refugees. In order to feed their children or pay for their travel expenses, many people auctioned their house-hold belongings
 along the roads. More than 100,000 Kabulis became refugees. Some diplomats who stayed believed the number could be as higK as 500,000.
     During the month of August, according to some estimates, about 40,000 Afghans took refuge in Pakistan. Worried, about the influx of new refugees, Pakistan government sealed its borders. Pakistan and the UN offered* assistance for the establishment of re^igee camps in Jalalabad.
     Taking advantage of the opportunity for political advancement. General Dostum asked for international help for the refugees in Mazar. In response to his request, India and Iran sent medical supplies.
     Reports from across the border said Hikmatyar was still receiving military supplies from Pakistan during the fighting. The government raised this issue with the government of Pakistan, which assured Kabul it would do everything it could to stop such assistance reaching Hezb. Pakistani officials have reported that they stopped 14 trucks loaded with ammunition for Hikmatyar. According to BBC, the people of Bajaur, along the border with Afghanistan, have asked Islamabad to remove Hezb’s arms depots from their areas.
     But trucks with Pakistani number plates have been seen bringing supplies to Hezb bases in Charasiab and Bagrami near Kabul. Diplomatic sources have said that over 140 trucks laden with arms and other supplies to support Hezb's campaign of terrorism have left Pakistan since the fighting began, and that they are still coming.
     Earlier, the prime minister of Pakistan had,condemned the attacks on Kabul and had said that those who flout moral values would not .be allowed to use Pakistani tenitory for their activities. While the Prime Minister of Pakistan is sincere in his statement, some elements within the Inter Services Intelligence directorate, Pakistan's spy agency, continue to abet Hikmatyar's crimes.
     This should come as no suiprise; Hezb and ISI have always been close. Hikmatyar was given the lion's share of foreign assistance sent to the Mujahideen through Pakistan.
     Hezb Islami also continues its political and propaganda activities against the Islamic government from inside Pakistan. Hezb propaganda sheets are printed in Pakistan; its news agency op-
 erates from Islamabad. Hezb political officers are given facilities to go abroad for political activities, and the party receives funds from the Middle East through Pakistani banks. Pakistani volunteers fight alongside Hezb against the government. Arab volunteers come via Pakistan to fight against the Islamic government in Kabul. The numerous Pakistani and Arab volunteers fighting for Hikmatyar made their presence felt during the recent fighting.
      Qazi Hussain Ahmed, the leader of Jamaat Islami Pakistan, sends funds and experts to help Hikmatyar in his war efforts. His engineers are helping Hezb build an air strip in Logar, so jets from Shindand air base can refuel there after bombing Kabul. Hezb's effort to use Jalalabad’s air base for this purpose was opposed by other parties Gulbuddin's foreign supporters must have assured him of a steady fuel supply for him to launch such a mad project.
      President Rabbani has asked all friendly countries, especially the neigh boring.Islamic countries, to stop help ing Hikmatyar, who is waging a cam paign of terrorism against the people of Afghanistan.
      The world community showed great concern over fighting in Kabul. The UN, EEC, OIC, US and neighboring countries called for the end of hostilities and solution of the. issue through negotiations.
      The fighting closed some roads.
 As a result, the prices of essential commodities and fuel skyrocketed. The exchange rate of Afghan currency dropped 100 percent The war disrupted supplies of electricity and clean water to the citizens of Kabul. TV and radio broadcasts were also disrupted, though both have now resumed.
      Kabul newspapers stopped publish ing because the paper store and printing press of the Ministry of Information were set on fire by Gulbuddin’s rockets. AFGHANews could not be published • on time for the same reason.
      What worries the residents of Kabul the most is the fear of shortages, of food and fuel during the fast approaching winter. The time spent fighting Hezb couild have been spent bringing and storing supplies of food and fuel for the cold weather.
      Disruption of Kabul’s water, power and transport systems created problems |-for the hospitals,, which were full of , rocket victims:                    ' ■
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1, 1992, page @
    The people of Afghanistan opposed the attacks. Every Friday mosques held moving scenes pf people protesting the violence. While the people criticized the government by name for failing to put an end to it quickly, they avoided naming Gulbuddin be-cause of fear of reprisal of Hezb. The people of Kabul have lived for a decade and a half under the rule of dictators, and know the consequences of criticizing men like Hikmatyar ppenly.
    Around 1,000 people, including some women, demonstrated in Mazar against Gulbuddin's terrorism.. They also opposed the ceasefire agreement, and demanded that Hezb's military power be crushed. Afghans in . Delhi, London,Washington and Sydney held rallies against the attacks on Kabul.
    Many people, including some senior Mujahideen commanders, opposed the ceasefire, thinking that Gulbuddin would use the opportunity to resupply and , prepare for another war. Gulbuddin’s recent statement that refugees should not return to their homes is a source of worry in this regard.
    Hikmatyar accepted the ceasefire because his attack had failed and he needed time to regroup and resupply. The plight of the refugees, problems of food and fuel supplies for the winter, and pressure from abroad forced, the government to accept the truce.
    During the fighting, a convoy of food and fuel, accompanied by several thousand men, both from Mujahideen parties and divisions 53 and 80, reached Jabulseraj on its way to Kabul. The defense ministry had requested the ::ood and fuel.
    Since entry of this convoy to Kabul would have given substance to Gulbuddin's propaganda and would have damaged relations among the Mujahideen parties supporting the government, the Defense Minister ordered the troops accompanying the convoy to returfi to Kailagai in Baghlan Province. Hezb claimed that it forced the convoy to return.
    In an interview with BBC, General Dostum supported the ceasefire and reaffirmed his loyalty to the Islamic government There are about 2,500 fighters from his 53rd Division defending Kabul.
     One of Hikmatyafs odd maneuvers was to send Abdul Saboor Farid, the ex-Prime Minister from his party, on a foreign tour. Hezb claimed that he was invited by Pakistani, Iran, Turkey, Saudi Arabian and Tajikistan to pay official visits to these countries.
     But Pakistan and Iran both said that his visit was private. Iranian papers called Fareed an unwanted guest. Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Tajikistan re-
 fused to allow him to come. Farid returned to Pakistan after a visit to Geneva for medical treatment.
     The Leadership Council expelled Hikmatyar from the council and conditioned Farid’s, return to office on his resignation from Hezb, or his condemnation of the rocket attacks on Kabul.
     How long will this ceasefire last?
     This u the question on everybody's lips. More than a decade of experience has shown that Hikmatyar breaks his promises whenever it suits him. He used each previous ceasefire to prepare for the next round of terrorist attacks. While he cannot be trusted, the government can prevent further fighting by re-, maining fully prepared to defend Kabul and by improving the law and order situation in the city, cooperation of the parties within the government, improvement of law and order situation and measure to prevent supply of arms and money for Hezb from outside.
     If the defense ministry* of the Islamic government prepares itself for the defense of Kabul and avoids mistakes of the past, another war will be most unlikely.
     Hikmatyar has always exploited differences between parties within the government. In particular he has profited from clashes between Hezb Wahdat and Ittihad. If these parties resolve their differences peacefully, Hezb will be less likely to exploit the disorder by mounting armed attacks.
     If the authorities can improve the law and order situation in Kabul, it will help restore the people’s confidence in the Islamic government, making them less vulnerable to Hezb’s propaganda campaign.
     If Pakistan stops supplying arms, ammunition, fuel and volunteers to Hikmatyar, and bans Hezb's political and propaganda activities in Pakistan, the likelihood of further attacks will diminish, r
     Finally, if certain Middle Eastern
 circles stop funding Hezb's pointless campaign of terror against the Afghan people and their Islamic government, the chances of further fighting will vanish.
Rabbani seeks Iran's aid
    President Burhanuddin Rabbani in a message to President Akbar Hashimi Raf sanj ani on August 22 appreciated Iran's assistance to the Afghan people.
    He hoped Iran would provide the Afghan people with more relief supplies, especially oil products at this critical period.
    Rabbani, a copy of whose message was made available to IRNA, said the Afghan people will always appreciate Iran's humanitarian aid.
UN supplies $10 million relief aid
    The personal representative of the UN Secretary-General in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Mr. Sotirios Mousouris, said on August 23 that the United Nations agencies working in Afghanistan had prepared a $10 million package of emergency assistance to meet the urgent humanitarian need of the country arising from the current hostilities.
    The areas covered in the package include: the transport of food aid (S4 million); medical supplies and supplementary feeding ($2 million); shelter materials ($2 million); and mine clearance (US $2 million), he said.
    The emergency program will be implemented within the framework and budget of the Secretary-General’s consolidated appeal for assistance to Afghanistan launched on 6 June 1992, where US SI80 million was requested in the appeal but only US $42 million had been pledged so far, primarily for UNHCR's encashment programme in Pakistan, he disclosed.
    According to Mr. Mousouris the current hostilities in Kabul have caused losses in human lives and vast damages in property and have seriously disrupted the return of to normal life in the country. He further said, over 1,800 civilian deaths have been reported, especially among women and children, with several thousands injured and seeking treatment Among the 17 hospitals in Kabul, only 8 are minimally functioning with 2,403 beds. While the few doctors available in the government hospitals are unable to provide urgently required medical and surgical services due to lack of electricity , water and essential medicines, including intravenous fluids, anesthetics, gauze and
bandages.
    Food supplies in Kabul are rapidly becoming scarce and expensive and the price of a kilo of wheat for example, has more than doubled in the past two weeks, he added.
    He added that the temporary evacuation of the international staff from Kabul, the practical operational difficulties, and the overall volatile security in the country have obliged the UN agencies to review the method of deliv ering assistance. The agencies agreed to strengthen their presence in the main provincial cities, and team leaders have been appointed in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar to provide regular situation reports in their areas, hie said.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 17, September 1,1992, page ©
Jami'at commander murdered in Faryab
     Hafizullah Arbab, the chief-commander of Jami'at in Faryab Province," was killed by Pahlawan Rasool, an ex-militia commander, two weeks ago.
Rasool is a member of the newly formed National Islamic Movement headed by General Dostum.
     Hafizullah Arbab led more than 2,000 armed Mujahideen of Jami'at in the center and districts of Faryab.
     Arbab, 43, was bom in Almar sub-District into a wealthy Uzbek family. He joined the Mujahideen after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Being a good leader, he expanded his influence and increased the number of his Mujahideen.
     In recent years, he joined the Supervisory Council of JamVal and remained till the last day of his life.
     Arbab had built Madrasas (religious schools) and schools and was assisted in his daily work by a group of religious scholars.
     After the fall of the communist regime, Arbab came to Kabul to meet with the Jami'at leader and Commander Masood, and reLumed to Faryab after a few days.
     Rasool, an ex-mililia commander, considered Arbab an obstacle to his ambitions and wanted to eliminate him. A peace meeting was formed to resolve thb differences between the two rivals. Rasool aiTested Arbab while-he was attending the meeting and two days later executed him in public.
     Hearing about Arbab's arrest, his brother Abdul Manan took Arbab's family and 2,000 of his Mujahideen in a convoy of 30 trucks and sought ref-
uge in Badghis Province. The tfagic death of Arbab was a great loss to the Mujahideen.                          '
     Pahlawan Rasool, the murderer of Arbab, joined the Mujahideen of Harakat Inqilab of Mohammadi after the Soviet invasion. Very soon he established contact with the regime and began to work for it. The first crime he committed was handing over Mullah Mohammad Amin, a scholar and deputy leader of Harakat to the regime. Amiri was killed in Pul-i-Charkhi jail.
     Rasool also handed over a French photographer and two of his Afghan guides to the government.
     He was engaged in fighting against the Mujahideen of Jami'at and harakat and is known for his cruelty against Pushtoon,
     Ironically, he was on good terms with Gulabzoy, a Khalqi leader, and through him established close relations with the Soviets. The Soviets provided him with funds, arms and ammunition directly. This helped Rasool to spread his influence in the province.
     Rasool supported Tanai's coup against Najib. His Khalqi connection also brought Rasool close to Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. With his blessing Nasim, the commander of Hezb, was able to spread his influence in the province.
     Pahlawan Rasool, an Uzbek, joined the Islamic National Movement of General Dostum along with Nasim, the commander of Hezb at the start the current year. Rasool is famous for his cruelty and ruthlessness against the Mujahideen.
Public Library escapes looting
    the Public Library of Kabul, as well as the National Archive and Museum, has been lucky to escape destruction and looting during the recent disturbances.
    The head of Public Library, Ghulam Farooq Neelab Rahimi, said that the, Mujahideen protected his library, Which has 500,000 books.
    Around 150,000 documents of historic importance and 13,000 handwritten books are kept in the National Archive, which have remained intact during the recent disturbances.
Rabbani appoints 2 VicePresidents
    President Rabbani has appointed Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi and Mawlawi Mir Hamza as his deputies.
    Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, the leader of-Harakat Inqilab Islami, is a prominent traditional religious scholar. He is a Pushtoon from Logar Pifovince and is known as a moderate politician.
    Mawlawi Meer Hamza is a .member of Jami'at Islami who completed his studies in Islamic Sharia in Saudi Arabia. He is a Pushtoon from Ghorband District, Parwan Province.
                        Deputy Minister attends NAM pre-summit
     Minister Of State for Foreign Affairs Dr. Najibullah Lafraie flew to Peshawar on August 26, on his way to Jakarta to attend the preparatory meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement summit on August 28.
     This was the first flight to a foreign country from Kabul airport after Hezb Islami began roexeting the airport at the beginning of the month. Flights to Mazar-i-Sharif were never disrupted.
     Accompanying Dr. Lafraie was Abdul Mohammad Shogufan, director for UN and international organizations in the Afghari Foreign Ministry.
     Dr. Lafraie said Afghan interim President Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani may also attend the NAM summit which is scheduled for September 1.
     The third member of the Afghan delegation to the NAM conference was Seddique Saljuqi, who is already in Pakistan, Dr. Lafraie recently replaced Saljuqi as the minister of state for foreign affairs and deputy foreign minister. Saljuqi has been posted as Afghan ambassador to Egypt
     Dr..Lafraie said the Afghan ambassador to Indonesia would join the delegation in Jakarta to raise its strength to four.
     Dr. Lafraie visited Australia at the end of the sumiriit to talk to officials of the Australian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He briefed them on the politi cal and military situation in the coun try, especially the situation in Kabul. He asked the government of Australia to send humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan.
     Dr. Lafraie also met with members of the Afghan community in that country and informed them of the situation in their homeland.
  Help us publish
  AFGHANews!
      J ' _ x
                               Please send your donations to:
                              Account No. 55088 Bank Millie Afghan Wazir Akber Khan Bra. KABUL - AFGHANISTAN