Vol 8, No 1

January 1,1992
Mujahideen meet with Russians in Islamabad
council
 T# REVIEW
 situATI*k
   The Council of Commanders (CC) has decided to convene its third general meeting within a month to discuss major political and military issues facing the Mujahideen.
   The high commission of the CC met in Khost, Paktia Province, from November 21 to 26. Commander Haqqani presided over the meeting.
   The meeting approved the agenda of the third meeting of commanders. Delegations were appointed to meet the field commanders inside Afghanistan and to invite them to attend the meeting.
   It was decided that until the meeting is held, individual commanders should refrain from expressing their views on major political issues to prevent creation of misunderstanding between its members. The meeting of commanders has the authority to draw up a policy about these issues.
   Some members of the CC had expressed contradictory views on the visit of a Mujahideen delegation to Moscow.
   The first meeting of CC was held on May 7,1990 in Khost. The second meeting of the CC was held on June 25 of the same year in Khost.
   An extraordinary meeting of the council was held on October 6 in Shah Saleem, on Pak-Afghan border, in which Commander Masood took part
   Afghans and their outside supporters expected greater cooperation, in military and political fields, among the Mujahideen groups after the formation of CC. This expectation did not materialize due to contradictory policy adopted by the council. It called for coordination of military activities but refused to be given direct military support. It raised the hope for a better political understanding between the Mujahideen
 «#“• To page (3)
     The second round of peace talks between the Mujahideen and Russians were held in Islamabad on December 21 to discuss the implementation of the accords reached in Moscow.
     The Russian Vice President Alexander Rutskoi headed the Russian delegation while the Mujahideen delegation was led by Prof. Rabbani. Hikmatyar who had boycotted the first round of talks joined the meeting in Islamabad but Prof. Sayyaf and Yunous Khalis are still opposed to the talks with Russians.
     A formal round of talks was preceded by separate meetings of some leaders with Rutskoi. In the formal session, the two sides repeated their resolve for implementation of the decisions reached in Moscow.
     Rutskoi informed the Mujahideen that his government stopped sending arms to Kabul from December 15. He also promised id help in transfer of power to an interim Islamic government in Afghanistan. He asked the Mujahideen to release Russian prisoners so that he could defend the agreement reached in Moscow in the Russian parliament. Rutskoi was unable to persuade Nikolai Varatov, a POW from Ukrain, to return home.
     The Mujahideen had agreed to release the first group of Soviet prisoners by the end of 1991. Rutskoi was eager to take with him die released prisoners to Moscow.
     The Russian leader agreed to a Mujahideen's suggestions that representative of four Central Asian republics should be included in the joint commission that supervises implementation of the Moscow agreement.
     The Mujahideen demanded closure of the regime embassy in Moscow and return of Afghan children taken to former Soviet Union.
     A Soviet prisoner. Baba Qul from Turkmanistan, was released by the Mujahideen to return with Rutskoi. A member of Soviet delegation claimed in Kabul that the prisoner released was not a Soviet national. The Mujahideen
 say he is a Soviet citizen and was captured in Paghman when he was fighting the Mujahideen along the militias of Rashid Dostom.
     Jami’at leader announced the release of three Soviet POWs in accordance with the Moscow agreement on December 26. He asked the Russians to arrange for the return of the released prisoners but said repatriation would be voluntary.
     Rutskoi held extensive talks with Pakistani leaders on Afghan and other bilateral issues.
     Earlier, he visited Teheran where he held talks with the Iranian leaders and the Hezb-i-Wahdat Mujahideen party. Rutskoi had proposed to the Mujahideen exchange of each Russian soldier with 30 Mujahideen prisoners.
     After Islamabad talks, Rutskoi visited Kabul to discuss the issue of POWs with the regime. It is said that Najib agreed to release a group of Mujahideen prisoners unilaterally. The Kabul regime also said that Russia agreed to give food and technical assistance to it despite problems facing at home Rutskoi justified sending food to Kabul by quoting Holy Quran and Bible that 'a neighbor should share his food with his poor neighbor'. Prof. Rabbani had given him Holy Quran with Russian translation during his visit to Moscow.
     Rutskoi's meeting with the Mujahideen was criticized by the leaders of Uzbekistan and Kirghizistan because he did not consult them before beginning his mission.
      In Kabul, Rutskoi asked for the formation of a committee from the neighboring countries of Afghanistan, including the newly independent republics of Central Asia, to monitor implementation of the UN plan.
     The joint Mujahideen-Russian commission will began its work soon in Islamabad. Russia has introduced seven people for the commission. Republics will appoint their representatives soon.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1,1992, page ©
Battlefields
rocket launcher, one pistol and one wireless set.
Wardak Province
   The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the enemy posts in Durani, Puli'Surkh and Ghulu Ghundai on December 10 killing a many enemy troops, destroying one tank and some heavy weapons and capturing 12 militiamen along with their weapons. Commander Mamoor Sadiq reported. Two Mujahideen were injured in this operation.
 Herat Province
    •     An enemy tank was destroyed and its crew were killed by a mine, planted by the Mujahideen, west of Zindajan bn December 15, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen fired rockets into the enemy position in Mahala-i-Langar of Zindajan destroying one tank and killing three soldiers.
    •     The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers and injured three in Qala-i-Raigi of Zindajan on December 15 when they attacked the enemy with heavy weapons.
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked a regime's base in Sabol village, on Herat-Islam Qala road on December 10, killing and wounding a considerable number of the enemy troops and seizing he following munitions:
    •Kalashnikov rifles: 35 •Heavy machineguns: 4 •P.K. machinegun: 1 •Mortar (82mm): 1 •RPG rocket launcher: 1 •Some ammunition
    •     One enemy soldier was killed, seven were wounded and one DShK and one ZPU-1 anti-aircraft machine-gun were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Pul-i-MaJan of Zindajan on December 13 using heavy weapons .
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at repulsed an enemy attack in Kartan and Mamyoon areas of Zindajan on December 16 killing 25. soldiers, destroying one tank and seizing 15 Kalashnikov rifles, four P.K machine-guns, two RPG rocket launchers and some ammunition.
 Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at launched an attack on the enemy positions in Charikar, provincial center, and Jangal Bagh of Jabulseraj on December 12 killing 12 and capturing
 15 militiamen of Rashid Dostom. They seized 17 Kalashnikov rifles and closed the Salang highway. Commander Ghulam Jailani reported.
    One truck was destroyed, three soldiers, including an officer, were captured and nine heavy weapons were seized when the Mujahideen under attacked the enemy position in Jangal Bagh on December 21. In retaliation, the regime's forces attacked the civilian areas with rockets, inflecting heavy human and material losses on the people.
    The Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy going from Hairatan to Kabul on December 22 destroying two tanks, one oil tanker and one truck loaded with ammunition. The Mujahideen seized nine Kalashnikov rifles, and captured nine soldiers and three officers. The Salang road was closed at least for one week. Commander Jailani belong to the Supervisory Council of Jami'at which is headed by Ahmad Shah Masood. Jangal Bagh is located at the mouth of the Ghorband valley overlooking the Salang road.
 Samangan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed some enemy soldiers including a commander, captured seven soldier and destroyed a security post on main road in Khulm District on December 21, Commander Sad Bashi reported. The Mujahideen seized seven Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher, one P.K machinegun, one R-105 radio set and some ammunition. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties in the operation.
 Kandahar Province
    Nine soldiers and one officer of the regime defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in south of Kandahar airport on December 17, Commander Mullah Naqibullah reported. They brought with them eight Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one P.K machineguns, one RPG
 Cammander disputes Russia aid cut claim
    Commander Mawlawi Alam has reported that more than 1,000 trucks loaded with arms and ammunition reached Mazar airport from former Soviet Union between November 22 and December 21. Soviets had said they stopped sending arms to the Kabul regime on December 15.
    The report says that the Kabul regime has recently given at least 40 light tanks to Rashid Dostom, a militia commander based in Jawzjan.
    Mujahideen from Kabul have reported that regime's militiamen have been busy cutting trees belong to local people in Bagrami District and Khak-i-Jabar, southeast qf the city of Kabul, to be used as fuel. So far, they have taken 500 trucks of fuel wood from the area. They cut trees without permission of their owners and without paying their price.
 Senior commander killed in ambush
    Hafizul Haq, the chief commander of Ittihad-i-Islami of Prof. Sayyaf in Ningarhar Province, was killed in an ambush on December 25 in Khayber Agency, 20 kilometers outside Peshawar.
    Commander Azimullah and two Mujahideen were also killed while Commander Saznoor was seriously injured in the fatal ambush.
    They were coming from Ningarhar to Peshawar. The attackers, who has not been identified yet, used rocket launchers and Kalashnikov rifles in the attack. The dead bodies were brought to Peshawar and were buried in a refugee camp.
    Hafizul Haq had played a key role in liberation of many areas in Ningarhar Province. Prof. Sayyaf described the death of Hafizul Haq as a great loss to the Mujahideen.

AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1, 1992, page ©
UN launches Afghan aid package for 1992
     The United Nations has appealed or about $ 100 million and 60,000 MT of wheat for its humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan in 1992.
     Disclosing the program, the UN secretary-general's envoy Benon Sevan told the reporters in Islamabad on November 27 that the total resource requirement for 1992 was $133.7 million, together with 95,000 MT of food aid, in the form of wheat. Of this amount, S39.6 million and 34,000 MT are available, leaving a shortfall of US$94.1 million and 61,000 MT of wheat, he said.
     He said with the process towards a
 Ghali becomes new UN head
   Boutros Ghali, Egypt's Deputy Prime Minister, has beat recommended to become the next United Nations Secretary General by the Security Council.
   Ghali, 69 a Coptic Christian, fluent in French, English and Arabic, would become the first Arab and African to hold the top post at the United Nations. He would replace Javier Perez de Cuellar of Peru.
   The new Secretary-General will have Afghan issue on his agenda. The UN has announced a five-point plan for the solution of the Afghan problem which has made some progress.
   Most Afghans received the choice of Egyptian diplomat to UN post as a good news. Afghan resistance would have not been happy if Sudruddin had been chosen for the job. He is considered by the Mujahideen as pro-Kabul.
  CC reviws situation
 political settlement on the right track, it was more urgent than ever that the international community sustained its efforts on the humanitarian front "Such assistance will not only help to alleviate the suffering of the Afghan people, but also reinforce the peace process, ” the UN envoy said.
     He rejected the press reports about misuse of funds allocated for Afghanistan by UNOCA officials.
     A United Nations audit into the financing of program in Afghanistan had alleged that millions of dollars donated by governments were unaccounted for or diverted last year.
     It accused UN personal in Afghanistan and Pakistan administrative mismanagement that resulted in a lack of competitive bidding on equipment, manipulating exchange rates and general inefficiency.
     Specifically, the May audit says that $2.5 million donated by France were never recorded on the books, money from the sale of $2 million worth relief commodities donated to Operation Salam were missing and money spent on tents for Afghan refugees was diverted to Iraqi refugees in Turkey and Iran.
     It also points a finger at the Kabul office, where the UN Development Program (UNDP) was responsible for making payments for Operation Salam. The report said UNDP converted US dollars at unofficial rates and then charged Operation Salam official rates, which were about 500 times higher.
     Operation Salam was headed during the time of the audit by Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan and his then-deputy Zia Rizvi.
 Afghan Films facing trouble
     The Kabul regime's film industry is facing serious problems due to defection of talented actors, lack of funds and tight control.
     Sixteen of Afghanistan's main 43 theaters have been destroyed in the war, several of the best performers have fled to the West or have joined the Mujahideen.
     "I hope to bring the industry out of the slough," said Hamid Latif, presi dent of state-owned Afghan Films.
     ^But we just do not have the funds to compete with international productions. We do not even have a color laboratory and depend on India for processing," said Latif.
     Afghan Films, founded 25 years ago with US help, has since made 35 feature films with funding from the government and the private sector against a promised annual production capacity of 150 features, 375 documentaries and hundreds of 10-minute news reels.
     The state-owned agency imports 40 India and 60 old Hollywood and European films every year for hard currency.
     "We have stopped importing Soviet films because of the hatred here for the Russians since their withdrawal from Afghanistan three years ago, and now we spend on Western footage which costs us between $1,000 and $4,000 for each film," said Latif.
     The Soviet-backed government of Najib spends $100 on each 10-minute newsreel and five times that on documentaries.
     Recently the regime put an addi tional damper on the industry by ordering Afghan Filins and private groups not to pay more than $100 to leading players.
From page (1)
but did not take any major political step fearing to antagonize party leaders.
    Despite its shortcomings, the council is a body representing a considerable number of effective field commanders coming from different areas of Afghanistan. They represent diverse political and ethnic groups.
    Supporters of the council argue that it can still play a role in coordinating the military activities of the Mujahideen. The council can play a key role in national unity.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1, 1992, page Q
  Editorial
Soviet Union collapses
   Afghan Jehad contributed to the fall of Soviet Union and liberation of millions of people from the oppressive rule of communism. The fall of Soviet Union resulted in the liberation of Islamic republics in Central Asia and paved the way for the return of Muslims of the region to rediscover their Islamic culture and history. It is a good news for all Muslims, especially Afghans who share common historical, cultural, ethnic and religious ties with the people of this area.
   Liberation of Central Asian countries freed the northern borders of Afghanistan from an unnatural siege imposed by communist system — separating people from each other. Afghanistan has assumed an important position after the liberation of the republics. It is located on the transit route to five republics which want to establish link with the outside world.
   The fall of Soviet Union deprived the Kabul regime from a super power supporter and has paved the way for establishment of Islamic government in Afghanistan.
   But the transitional period will pose some problems too. The newly liberated republics are facing economic problems which still make them dependent on Moscow in . The current leaders of the Central Asian republics are former communists who have hid themselves behind nationalistic slogans. They will try to stop their people from establishing links to their true Islamic culture. The nationalistic slogans of these leaders will create tension between different ethnic groups which could affect the situation in Afghanistan because of common cultural and ethnic ties. The old guards of Central Asia are sympathetic to Najib and try to support him against the wishes of their own people, Najib has already started to establish trade and economic ties with these republics.
    The other problem arises from rivalries of the countries of the region to find market and spread their political and cultural influence in the newly liberated countries.
   The war in Afghanistan prevents meaningful trade and economic ties of the Islamic world with central Asia. It would be logical to expect mounting pressure on the Mujahideen to accept a peaceful solution of the problem of Afghanistan so that a barrier on the way of economic activities and trade to the area is removed.
   Another possibility would be attempt by each country to establish contact with Central Asia through, dealing with small Afghan groups, instead of waiting for the formation of central government in Afghanistan. This would be a dangerous development for Afghanistan, as well Central Asian countries.
   The Mujahideen should take into account these developments and take necessary steps for safeguarding the interest of Jehad and Afghanistan.
   The first step is to forge unity among major components of the resistance. Such a unity serves the dual purpose of creation of an alternative to the Kabul regime and strengthening of the military position of the Mujahideen.
   The collapse of Soviet Union is a blessing to Afghans if they make use this God-given opportunity. Let us hope that all the Mujahideen leaders realize the urgency of the situation and do everything possible to safeguard the interest of Islam and Afghanistan.
                                               Historical Dictionary of Afghanistan
                                                   LUDWIG W. ADAMEC
    392 PP. MAP 1990 91-31544 ISBN 0-8108-2491-4 $39.50
    Since its foundation, Afghanistan has been known as the "Forbidden Land," penetrated by only a few Westerners, and a land over which the British empire-in spite of three Anglo-Afghan wars-was unable to exert political control. Only since World War I, and increasingly after World War II, did Afghanistan become an active participant in the international political arena. The Marxist coup in 1978 and the subsequent Soviet military intervention in December of 1979 made Afghanistan a focal point of East-West conflict Suddenly there was a need for reliable information about all aspects of Afghanistan studies.
    This is a concise reference source listing important events and personalities, geographical, cultural, and political data, and a wealth of information of interest to the general reader as well as to the serious student of Afghanistan. The work is divided into five parts: introduction to Afghan history, dictionary, chronology, selected bibliography, and an appendix with genealogies of major tribes and ethnic groups and important families.
    Ludwig W. Adamec (BA, political science; MA, journalism; Ph.D., Islamic and Middle Eastern studies, UCLA), a professor of Middle East Studies at the University of Arizona, was director of its Near Eastern Center for ten years. Widely known as a leading authority on Afghanistan, he is the author of a number of reference works on Afghanistan and books on Afghan history, foreign policy, and international relations, including Afghanistan 1900-1923: A Diplomatic History, Afghanistan's Foreign Affairs to the Mid-Twentieth Century, and Political Gazetteer of Afghanistan.
Publisher
SCARECROWN PRESS, INC.
P.0.3ox 4167, Metuchen, NJ 08840 Phone:908-548-8600,1-800-537-7107
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlana Abdul Qadir
     Abdul Qadir, locally known by his war name, Mawlana, is the senior commander of Jami'at Islami Mujahideen in Gulbahar. He had been operating in a militarily sensitive area and has taken part in many battles.
     Here are the account of some of the operations he personally took part:
     In 1981, 30 tanks and trucks of the enemy were set on fire in Gulbahar and three tanks, full of ammunition, were seized. In retaliation, the enemy launched a surprise attack on Eid Day,
 Muslims festival, killing 22 Mujahideen, including most of the local junior commanders.
     In 1981, Soviets launched an offensive against Shemali which continued for one week. Four hundred people were killed in the battle or were captured and executed in Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan. Communist leader Dastagir Panjshiri was present in the area to help the operation. Most of the Mujahideen retreated to the mountainous bases after fighting for several days.
     In 1988, the Kabul regime launched an offensive against Shemali under the command of Shah Nawaz Tani. He ordered demolishing of 150 houses by artillery fire in Gulbahar alone. He also ordered cutting of trees from both sides of the road. The Mujahideen resisted the enemy well. Mawlana lost five of his men in this battle.
     In 1989, Mawlana took part in an operation which led to capture of Kolokhak post in Gulbahar. Dozens of enemy soldiers were captured and few tanks were destroyed. Soviet forces, stationed in Gulbahar, refused to fight in support of the regime troops.
     In 1989, he attacked militia posts in Jabulseraj. Eight posts fell to the Mujahideen. Mawlana was injured in this operation. He lost his two finger and one eye. He came to Peshawar in 1989 for medical treatment. He has not taken part in fighting since than, but his Mujahideen are taking active part in all operations launched on Salang road.
     Abdul Qadir was invited to join the Mujahideen by Haji Abdul Hadi in 1978. He worked for Commander Masood. Haji was assassinated by Maoists who had control over some areas in Jabulseraj and Kohistan districts
 at the start of Jehad.
     When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, Abdul Qadir left his job in the Gulbahar Textile Factory and began armed struggle. He was made the commander of a group Mujahideen all of
     At the start, the Mujahideen of Jami'at in the area faced tremendous difficulties from both Soviets and local Maoists. Maoists used to ambush Lhe Mujahideen of Hezb and Jami'at and killed their members. They were better organized and armed than the Mujahideen.
     In 1980, the Mujahideen of Jami'at seized 390 guns from a government unit in Jabulseraj. It was done with the help of officers who also defected to the Mujahideen. By capturing the weapons, the Mujahideen got an upper hand in the battle against Maoists and they were driven out of Jabulseraj and Kohistan.
     In 1982, Mawlana became the deputy of Agha Shereen and commander of the mobile unit of Gulbahar. Being located at the mouth of the Panjshir and close to the Salang road, Gulbahar was the scene of continuous fighting between the Mujahideen and Soviets and regime troops. The Mujahideen of Gulbahar used to attack convoys going to Gulbahar Textile Factory and Panjshir. They also hosted a large number of refugees from Panjshir when Soviets launched major attacks against the valley.
     In 1985, he became the commander of Gulbahar after Agha Shereen was martyred in Jabulseraj while trying to cross the Salang highway from Ghorband to Jabulseraj.
     Abdul Qadir witnessed activities of communist when he worked in the factory. Parcham and Shoola-i-Javid, a Maoist group, were the two main active groups. "Since communists were talking about social justice and did not attack religion openly, many workers supported them," Abdul Qadir said. President Daud accepted some economic demands of the workers which boosted the morale of the communists. Mawlana had become a worker at the age of 15 along with two of his brothers.
     Mawlana said the first person who
                             . the value; jping
                          ried                    T: ||| I! I
Whom were equipped with sl^iir^ DeCe|S* tl, each Hollar
                          was exchanged with IJ5QC1 Afghani The exchange rate was 1,600 Afghani for each dollar one day before. This puts extra burden on the people because the prices of essential commpd-ides soared by 15 percent over night iAf^han             become so use-
                          less that Dostum mOdiamen am askr
      W officials in
  have paved
  of food to Hazarajat Where the people are "feeing farmne-Iike stteadott ; Commander^ have: agreed to. let .UN
                                                                                                                                                   their terri-.
  fortes; from Mazar;•
  hasTsirired lli^^                    the
  Democracy have • left Kabul: due to
  •hioumihgd
                                                                                               jgjmie: Azam Rahnaward, a writer and (old member of the PDPA, and :Zpjr Tanin, the editor of Akhbar-i-:
  eounuiesi
                                                                                                Jdie regime to Poland,] KM He was accused of coHaborsw
 (I
 To page (8)
 govemm       used  for
 n^ of fcod swppjies'W the refuses, The new trucks will replace the old
 ,;|||||!||
 19S1. * :The trucks have
 IAfrican aid.• Worker• ;:wjjb ■wais; y captured by an;, unkndwt
 "&$>; drganizatiohi;. was

AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1,1992, page ©
Situation in Afghanistan in 1991
 Thn A/fn hhiHppn'c militarv at the national leveT There is no single com- sive military plan and single command 01
     The Mujahideen's military and political achievements and disintegration of the former Soviet Union changed the situation in favor of the Mujahideen in 1991. As a result, the Mujahideen have become optimistic about their victory over the Kabul regime. They , however, continue to suffer from lack of unity, both in the military and political fronts.
 Military developments
     The capture of Khost garrison was the first Mujahideen victory of the year. More than 2,000 soldiers and officers of the regime were captured and vast quantities of arms and ammunition were seized. The victory in Khost raised the morale of the Mujahideen which had suffered from lack of substantial achievement after the Soviet troops withdrawal.
     Victories in the north followed the fall of Khost The Kabul regime's garrisons in Dasht-i-Archi, Khwaja Ghai, Yangi Qala and Rustaq, Takhar Province, fell to the Mujahideen in quick succession. The enemy attack on Khanabad, Kunduz Province, was repulsed. Although the media coverage of the victories in Takhar was not as extensive as the victory in Khost, developments in the north were very important.
     Liberation of Zebak, Shegnan, Eshkahsim and Wakhan districts in Badakhshan was part of the victories of the Mujahideen in the north. The fall of Daulatabad in Mazar was the last episode of this series.
     The Mujahideen launched a massive attack on Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia. The Mujahideen achieved significant victories at the start of the attack. But the extensive aerial bombing and local difficulties arising from the tribal politics postponed the fall Gardez. The Mujahideen have laid siege to Gardez and hope to capture it in the future. They also launched attack on Jalalabad to decrease the enemy pressure from Gardez. The Kabul troops suffered heavy casualties in these attacks.
     The Mujahideen's attack on Kandahar did not succeed due to differences between some Mujahideen groups. In addition to the operations mentioned, low intensity fighting continued all over Afghanistan.
     Rocket attacks on the enemy targets within the parameters of Kabul caused some casualties among civilian population. The Mujahideen deny aiming civilian targets but casualties among civilians caused by Tockets were exploited by the Kabul regime to defame the Mujahideen and their cause at home and abroad.
     The Mujahideen did not succeed to solve the problem of military coordination
 at the national level. There is no single command and unified supply system. The Council of Commanders which was expected to bring unity and coordination at the national level failed to do so during 1991. The contradictory policy adopted by the council is the main reason for this failure. The council wanted to coordinate military activities without being involved in the distribution of supplies . The Council also had decided to leave politics for the leaders. These decisions were made to avoid confrontation with the party leaders. The council also was based in exile limiting its freedom to make hard decisions. Despite its failure, the council is still a body representing field commanders from many parties and coining from all over Afghanistan. The council can play a positive role to build trust between different fronts and combat against divisions based on ethnic and linguistic factors.
      The Mujahideen of different areas paid attention to reorganization of their forces and training of their troops. The Supervisor Council has been leading others in this field.
      Differences between Mujahideen in many areas exist. These differences led to clashed between two Mujahideen groups in Arghandab, Kandahar, and Kunar. The Supervisory Council had less problems than previous years because a commander belonging to Hezb who created problems left Takhar after loosing influence in the area.
      The Mujahideen faced shortages of arms and ammunition. Although some fronts like Paktia and Jalalabad had less problem in this regard, others, especially the Supervisory Council, faced tremendous problems. The Mujahideen, however, captured some ammunition and arms, including artillery pieces and tanks, which will be used in the future operations against the regime. They also faced acute shortages of funds effecting their planned operations.
      The Kabul regime launched some offensive attacks against the Mujahideen. In Logar, it succeeded to capture die strategic gorge of Tangi-i-Waghjan. Lack of coordination on the part of the Mujahideen made the regime's victory possible. The Kabul regime also launched a major attack on Mai dan. The Mujahideen resisted the attack depriving the enemy from a mjor gain.
       The enemy launched a protracted offensive against Zindajan, Herat, but failed to drive the Mujahideen out of the town. These attacks were accompanied by severe aerial and artillery bombardments which inflicted heavy losses on the civilian population. Most of the houses were destroyed and the people were forced to abandon the area. Around 50,000 people of Zindajan and its surrounding areas became refugees either in Iran or in other liberated areas.
       Salang, Kabul-Jalalabad, Kabul-Gardez, Herat-Islam Qala and Herat-Torghundi roads remained generally open during the year due to lack of a comprehen-
 sive military plan and single command on the part of Mujahideen.
     Soviet Union continued to give vast quantities of arms, ammunition and fuel to Kabul. Supplies were send by road and air. The Soviets had agreed with the Mujahideen that they would not increase the level of their supplies to regime and even cut it before 1992. They violated this understanding by delivering a lot of munitions to the regime which were stored in Hairatan. Planes, tanks and long-range rockets were among the armament supplied by the Soviets to the regime. Despite acute shortages of food at home, Soviet Union continued to provide food, fuel and economic aid to the Tegime.
     Regime's militia groups suffered setbacks at die hand of die Mujahideen. Dostom and Kayan militias suffered heavy losses in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad fight ing. SAZA and SAFZA militiamen who had established themselves in Takhar along the border with Soviet Union were defeat ed. The death of Sayyed Ahmad, a militia commander in Herat, and Muslim, a militia commander in Kandahar, confined their followers in their native areas.
     The Kabul regime resorted to severe aerial bombings and firing of SCUD mis siles against Paktia, Ningarhar, Logar, Maidan, Herat, Badakhshan, Takhar, Bamyan and Parwan. Most of the bomb ings were unprovoked and against the targets far away from the battlefields. These attacks did not cause an major condemnation by the UN and international community and were rarely reported by the media.
 Political developments
     The three important political developments of the year were the announcement of the five-point UN plan for a peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue, the Mujahideen visit to Moscow and die fall of Soviet Union.
     After long consultations with the concerned parties, die UN secretary-general announced a five-point plan. This plan calls for creation of transitional administration to which all the powers are transferred and this administration will hold elections for setting 19 a permanent government. In order to do this the plan stress the need for in tra-Afghan dialogue between the warring parties. The plan also call for arms embar go to both sides of the conflict and ceasefire.
     The Kabul regime accepted die plan The Mujahideen said they saw positive points in it but refused to talk with the Kabul regime. The international communi ty has supported the UN plan. The efforts of the UN special envoy on Afghanistan to convene a meeting of Afghans, the Mujahideen and those living in Kabul, failed to happen before the end of Perez de Cueilar's tenure as die the secretary-general of die world body.
                                                                                     AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1,1992, page @
      Pakistan and Iran tried hard to encour- outside assistance. While Americans ex- high levels and economic difficulties have age the Mujahideen to support the UN plan, pressed their anger with the parties not made the people in the cities unhappy about Pakistan and Iran also said they were coor- sending their troops to Gulf, Saudis adopted the regime.
 dinating their efforts to find a solution to a more reconciliatory approach. The posi- The Kabul regime had no gain in interfile problems of Afghanistan. Two rounds tion of some Mujahideen leaders on the national politics. Regime expected to be of tripartite talks between the Mujahideen, Gulf issue were not understandable to a used as the main channel for UN humani-Pakistan and Iran were held in Islamabad large number of Afghans who saw many tarian assistance. This did not happen, at and Teheran. During these talks the similarities between Saddam and Najib. least at the scale the regime wanted, after Mujahideen decided to intensify their diplo- Afghan Interim Government (AIG) not the departure of Agha Khan and appoint-matic efforts. A Mujahideen delegation only failed to broaden its base, but faced se- ment of Benon Sevan as the UN went to New York on die occasion of the nous economic problems forcing to reduce coordinator.
 UN General Assembly session. The delega- die number of its employees by 4,000. If it The outside world which was sur-tion met with the UN head, the Soviet for- were not for generous donation of Saudi prised by die survival of the Kabul regime eign minister and diplomats from friendly Arabia, its schools would have remained after Soviet troops withdrawal now knows countries.                                  closed.                                     that regime is not capable of bringing peace
      The Mujahideen also took part in the The leaders agreed to form a council of and its survival meant continuation of war. QIC foreign ministers' meeting in Istanbul, leaders, the first step towards formation of The positive thing about the regime is that Turkey, and in the OIC summit in Dakar, an Islamic Interim Government, but the idea it is based in Afghanistan and has an admin-SenegaJ. The summit passed a resolution has little chance of success because it is be- istration in the national capital and speaks supporting the Mujahideen.                  mg opposed by some Mujahideen parties with one voice, something the Mujahideen
      A Mujahideen delegation, headed by and foreign countries.                         do not have.
 Prof. Rabbani, paid an official visit to The biggest political problem of The Kabul regime tried to make new Moscow at the invitation of the Soviet gov- Mujahideen is lack of workable political friends so that they could help it after the eminent. The two sides issued a joint dec- ■* program and absence of common political fall of the Soviet Union. India has been a laration at the end of the visit condemning institutions. The Mujahideen made no traditional supporter of the regime. But the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Soviets progress towards solving this important is- India has no direct access to Kabul by land, said they would not oppose formation of an sue. Historical, social and personal factors If there is no coordination between Central Islamic Interim Government by the prevents reaching consensus on this issue Asian republics and India, Delhi's options Mujahideen in Kabul. They promised to but the major problems is Afghans’ depen- to help the regime would be limited. The take part in the reconstruction of dence on outside world. In every decision, Kabul regime has been looking towards Afghanistan and stop sending arms and am- Afghans have to keep many countries, of- Central Asia and Iran for assistance. Efforts munition to the Kabul regime, including tom with conflicting interests and views, by the Islamic republics to establish cultural fuel. They also promised to withdraw their  happy.                                      ties with Kabul and give limited humanitar-
 military advisors. According to the declare- A historic event which will      have    an ian assistance to the organization controlled
 tion, the Islamic Interim Government will important bearing on developments in by the regime has made Najib hopeful but have the right to accept or reject all the Afghanistan is the disintegration of Soviet the Islamic Republic of Iran cannot go too agreements signed between Kabul and Union. Soviet Union created the criticize in far because such a move would antagonize Moscow since 1978.                          Afghanistan and till the last moments of its the Mujahideen.
      The second round of talks were held in existence continued to give military, politi-Islamabad. This round was not as useful as cal and financial assistance to the Kabul re- TJ11TriQTi?f arion fccuoo the first one because it was not prepared gime. Afghanistan now has common bor-
 well. Both sides, however, agreed to honor ders with Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and About five million Afghan refugees, the agreement reached in Moscow. The        Uzbekistan. Developments in these iepub-             ex^e’ were not a^e 10 Teturn
 Mujahideen released some Soviet POWs as      lies which are still ruled by the former com- t^ie^r country m 1991. A limited number of
 a gesture of goodwill.                     munists, often sympathetic to Najib, will af- re^u8ees retume<^ un^er ^ repatriation
       While the Mujahideen described the     feet the situation in Afghanistan.        program but more people left the country to
 outcome of Moscow talks as an achieve- Mohammad Zahir, the former king, in-                  fighting  and  severe economic   and
   ment, the UN special envoy has expressed tensified his activities. He sent two repre- f°°^ problems. There are still a large num-fear that it should not result in ignoring of sentatives to Pakistan to pass his message to her °f internally displaced Afghans, the UN plan by the Mujahideen. Worried Pakistani government and some Mujahideen ^he conditions of the refugees about the outcome of the Moscow talks, the parties. Regime efforts to bring the former m ^a^stan deteriorated due to fall in the in-Kabul regime fried to play down its king into the fold of national reconciliation tematianal assistance for die. refugees, importance.                                failed. But the king's efforts were limited to Health, and education services for the refu-
       The Summer coup in Moscow brought signing some statements. He was injured by           were affected by shortages of funds,
   about a change in the Soviet Afghan policy, a Portuguese whose motives behind the at-         problems, there is no evidence of a
   This change was witnessed when Soviet tack are still unknown. King's supporters mass return of the refugees to Afghanistan Union agreed with the US to stop sending hope to play a role in the interim govern- UI^ess 811 acceptable government has not arms to the two sides of the conflict from ment envisaged in the UN plan . If the issue    formed in Kabul,
   the beginning of 1992.                     is solved through fighting, they will not be a  Economic situation in Afghanistan is
       The negative symmetry paved the way candidate as they were not involved in the approaching a crises level. Prices of essen-for US to disengage itself from the Afghan armed resistance during the Soviet ^ commodities have gone very high. Due issue. After the Soviet troops withdrawal, occupation.                                 to the wrong monetary policies of the re-
   US interest was waning in the issue but The Kabul regime did not have any                      Afghan   currency   has   became
   Soviet policy did not allow it to change major political gains at home and abroad, worthless.
   leave the issue quickly.                   Its national reconciliation program failed to Humanitarian assistance for recon-
       The Gulf war had a negative effect on attract any major commander or leader. The struction, health and education projects in-the support of the outside world for the re- Kabul regime continue to suffer from inter- Afghanistan continued. But some pri-sistance. Saudi Arabia and the US wanted nal differences. PDPA is facing division of vate organizations closed their door due to that the Mujahideen should take part in the ethnic and linguistic nature. Furthermore, °f fimds* Terroristic actions against war against Iraq. Some Mujahideen groups there are divisions between moderates and f°reign organizations in Peshawar also had agreed but three parties did not send their hardliners. Regime's efforts to improve its a negative effect on the flow of outside aid fighters. Two of these parties criticized the image by allowing multi-party system, free the refugees in Pakistan and to allied forces and showed sympathy to Iraq, economy and religious freedoms were not Afghanistan. The UN reconstruction efforts This angered Saudis and Americans. These taken seriously by its opponents. Bad be- be02™6 less controversial than the previous two parties were the main recipient of the havior of the regime militias, corruption at ye315- This is because of a fresh approach
                                                                                          by the new coordinator.
                                           AFGHANews Vol 8, No 1, January 1,1992, page ©
Prof. Rabbani not satisfied with result of Islamabad peace talks
     Question: How was the negotiation between the Mujahideen and Russians held in Islamabad?
     Answer: The talks were not prepared in the form of negotiations. There were long meetings of some party leaders with Mr. Rutskoi but the time left for the general meeting was short. I do not know what was the problem that our Pakistani brothers organized the meeting this way. There was no time for technical negotiations. Rutskoi had not included representatives of other republics in his delegation.
     Question: A member of Soviet delegation said the prisoner freed by the Mujahideen on the occasion of Rutskoi's visit was an Afghan, not a Soviet citizen. Is he right?
     Answer: The prisoner released is a Soviet national. He is a residence of Turkmanistan living along the border with Afghanistan. He was captured in 1990 in Paghman while fighting along the Dostom militiamen. When he was captured, MIDIA interviewed him but the interview was not published for some political reasons. We never gave an Afghan to Russians. The statement by Russian delegation is regrettable.
     Question: The UN special envoy has expressed concern about the peace process after the Mujahideen delegation visited Moscow. What is he worried about?
     Answer: He is worried that the agreement reached in Moscow should not jeopardize the UN plan for settlement. His statement that any administration created without participation of the UN would lack legitimacy was a hasty reaction which could not be justifies. While the Mujahideen need the support of the UN for finding a political settlement, the UN should not prevent them from launching their own peace initiatives.
     Question: Uzbek president told a reporter that he did not remain indifferent about the right of 300,000 Uzbeks living in Afghanistan who supported Najib. What is your comment to his statement?
     Answer: No one has the right to interfere in the affairs of another country. Karimov does not have the right to issue such statements.
     This view that Uzbeks of Afghanistan defend the Kabul regime contradicts with realities. A handful of Uzbek militias represent no one but
 their own criminal interests. Most of Uzbeks are Mujahideen and oppose the Kabul regime. There are militias in each ethnic groups but they represent none.
     Question: What is the effect of disintegration of Soviet Union on Afghanistan?
     Answer: The collapse of Soviet Union is a natural event. Soviet Union was created by force and was kept together with tyranny.
     The collapse of Soviet Union will have positive as will as some negative effect on Afghanistan. The change has lifted an unnatural siege of the northern borders of Afghanistan. Afghanistan can benefit from contacts with the Muslims in Central Asia in trade and cultural fields. If the ethnic difficulties assume an acute form in Central Asia, it will affect Afghanistan which has religious and ethnic ties with that region.
     Question: How will the rivalries of other countries for market and influence in Central Asia affect Afghanistan?
     Answer: Liberation of Central Asian countries has given Afghanistan an important position. If the outside countries try to penetrate Central Asia through Afghanistan before formation of a representative central government in Kabul, these moves could create tremendous problems for Afghanistan, as well as the countries in Central Asia.
     Questions: Some politicians of the previous regimes say that the Mujahideen leaders are not representative of the people and their decision do not have legitimacy. What is your opinion on this subject?
     Answer: They criticize the Mujahideen actions because they are not involved in them. They talk about people and democracy, but when they were in power, they did not care about both. They were not representative of the people at that time.
     In every revolution some people emerge as leaders. Because of their leadership they became a legitimate party in the conflict. Although the leadership of the Mujahideen have not come through ballot box , they have led a nation in a great revolution. The people had a common cause and similarity of views with the Mujahideen leaders and because of this they joined the parties voluntarily. If they trusted them in sacrificing their lives, they will trust them in politics.
Azeri MP praises Afghans struggle
   The leader of a a parliamentary delegation from Azerbaijan praised the Mujahideen struggle for Islam and their homeland.
   Mammedov Itibar Ogula said both Afghans and the Azerbaijanis had fought against Communism and emerged victorious.
   The delegation announced donation of some machinery to dig tube-wells and two tankers to carry water for the refugees. The donation was described as a token of Azerbaijani's love for Afghans.
   The delegation wants to meet with the Mujahideen leaders and ask them about the fate of eight Azeri soldiers missing in Afghanistan. Azerbaijan has declared its independence from Moscow. It was accepted as the full member of OIC. Azerbaijan’s independence has been recognized by Turkey and Pakistan.
Mawlana
                                            From page (5)
warned the people of Gulbahar about the danger of communism was Mohammad Nasim, a teacher belonging to the Islamic movement He taught about 300 children in a local mosque. He was captured and killed by the communist regime of Taraki.
   Abdul Qadir was bom in Fateh Khan Khail village of Gulbahar, a town at mouth of the Panjshir valley 42 years ago. His father, Mohammad Ishaq, was a fanner. He went to the mosque school of his village to learn the basics of Islam. He decided to help his father in his daily work instead of studying formal school.
   Mawlana is married and has ten children.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
       JEHAD Account No, 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan ___________________
Vol 8, No 2
January 15,1992
Arms cut fails to silence guns
     Based on an agreement signed in Moscow in September, the United States and Russia officially stopped sending of arms to either side of the conflict in Afghanistan from January 1,1992.
     The embargo includes arms, ammunition and fuel for military purposes. The agreement on arms cut also envisages withdrawal of weapons of mass destruction from Afghanistan but no step has been taken to implement this part American officials have said they sent the last consignment of military aid to the Mujahideen in October. Russians say they stopped sending arms to Kabul on December 15. There is no monitoring team to verify the implementation of the agreement.
     Disintegration of Soviet Union, a party to the agreement, has raised many doubts about faithful implementation of the agreement by the CIS countries. The Central Asian republics are ruled by the leaders of the former Communist Party who are sympathetic to the Kabul regime.
     The Mujahideen have reported reaching of arms convoys from across the border to Mazar after December 15, the date which the Russians claimed to have stopped arms supply to Kabul.
     The Kabul regime has claimed that Asian republics have agreed to sell aviation fuel to it.
     AFP reported from Kabul, quoting diplomatic sources, that China has offered to sell arms to Najib to prevent formation of a "fundamentalist" government in Afghanistan. This report has not been confirmed by an independent source.
     While China's fear from establishment of an Islamic government in Kabul is understandable, offer of arms sale to the regime seems a shortsighted endeavor. This might be disinformation spread by the Kabul regime to raise the morale of its troops.
     The Kabul regime has also claimed that the arms embargo has silenced the guns in Afghanistan.
 Contradicting this claim, the Mujahideen reported launching attacks in many parts of the country. The two sides have stockpiled weapons and ammunition which enable them fight for sometime. Commander Masood has said arms embargo will not end the war but prolongs it.
     The low level of military activities in Afghanistan is due to cold weather and not because of arms embargo as the regime has claimed.
     The effect of negative symmetry will appear when the fighting season begins, four to five months from now.
     Arms embargo has put the Mujahideen in a disadvantageous position. After the Soviet troops withdrawal, arms supplies to the Mujahideen decreased while the Soviets increased arms supply to Kabul.
     The time between September, when the deal was signed, and January, when it came to effect, was also used by the Soviet to aim the regime.
     Despite the present advantage of the regime, if the embargo is implemented faithfully, the Kabul regime will be first party which will feel the pressure because it depends on sophisticated weapons which will require replacement and spare parts.
     The economy will put more pressure on the regime. Kabul has dependent on economic support from Moscow.
     Reports from Herat says that the regime has begun to reduce the salary of its militiamen at the risk of loosing their loyalty.
FIS victory delights Afghan Mujahideen
    Prof. Rabbani has congratulated the leaders of Islamic Salvation Front of Algeria for their victory in the first round of parliamentary elections.
    He said Afghans who buried communism share the joy of their Algerian Muslim brothers for their historic victory.
 Soviet invasion is condemned
      The Mujahideen parties in Peshawar condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan by holding public meetings while the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan marked the occasion by launching attacks on regime targets in many parts of the country.
      Jami'at Islami held a public meeting in its headquarters outside Peshawar in which Prof. Rabbani and Commander Alauddin were the main speakers.
      Jami'at leader said that Soviet adventure in Afghanistan lsdto its destruction..
      He said the Mujahideen motto was to make Afghanistan the graveyard of communism. To many people it looked just a slogan but the world is a witness to Soviet Union disintegration.
      Jami’at leader said by the fall of Soviet Union the Mujahideen's job has not come to an end. Due to (he changes in the world and opposi tion to establishment of anlslamic government in Afghanistan, the Mujahideen responsibilities have doubled, he said.
      Commander AUauddin informed the meet ing about fighting in Zindajan and Jehad situation in Herat and its neighboring provinces.
      A meeting was held in the headquarters of Hezb Islami to mark the 12th anniversary of the invasion. Meetings and rallies were also held by the Afghan refugees in Iran.
      The Mujahideen intensified their attacks on the regime targets to mark the invasion of their country by the Soviet Union.
      Kabul, Jalalabad, Herat and other parts of the country came under the Mujahideen attacks.
      International press marked the anniversary of the invasion by publishing articles about situation in Afghanistan.
      Mohammad Hashimi, the member of Science Academy of Tajikistan, told BBC that no (me could ignore the contribution of Jehad of Afghans to the fall of Soviet Union.
      Antony Arnold, an American writer who has written two books on the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, said the failure of Moscow to defeat the Mujahideen reduced the confidence of Soviet people in KGB, Red Army and Communist Party.
      Robert Neoman, the US forma ambassador to Kabul, said that prolongation of Afghan war provoked popular dissatisfaction with the performance of the Soviet government which fi nally brought it down.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15,1992, page ©
lerat Province
   •Two militia commanders, shaq Mushwani and Yaqoub, defected to the Mujahideen of . ami'at in Herat on December 29, Commander Azizullah Afzali reported.
   They brought with them the following arms and ammunition:
■llSSirhe Battlefields
Light weapons...............  ...100 
ZPU-1 (14.6 mm gun)...        ...1   
Howitzer (76 mm) .......      ...1   
Mortar (82 mm)...........     ...1   
Armored car.................  ...1   
Jeeps and trucks............  ...11  
Motorcycles.................. ...3   
Ammunition..................         
    The defecting militia commanders ambushed the road in Kamar Kulagh area on Herat-Torghundi road with the help of the Mujahideen capturing 45 soldiers and two commanders of the regime. The report adds that 300 militiamen have defected to the Mujahideen in Kushk District.
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured the police commander of Kushk District and some of his men in Kamar Kulagh, on Herat-Torghundi road, on January 1. They seized from them the following items:
 • Kalashnikov rifles...12
 • RPG-7 rocket launchers... 4
 • Light machineguns....4
  Tucks.................2
  Motorcycles..........  2
 • Radio sets..........3
    On the same day, five enemy soldiers and one commander were killed in a mine explosion in Adran village of Enjeel District.
 Faryab Province
    Eskandar Khan, a militia commander, and 80 of his men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Wazirabad, close to the city of Maimana, on December 26, Commander Arbab Hafiz reported. They brought with them 80
7th months of
 Kalashnikov rifles, two P.K machineguns, two ZPU-1 machineguns and two RPG-7 rocket launchers. By the defection of the militiamen, the Mujahideen got control of two security posts overlooking the town. The Mujahideen killed 15 regime soldiers and wounded 30. They seized 13 Kalashnikov rifles and one P.K. machinegun. Two Mujahideen were wounded and one was killed.
 Kunduz Province
    •Helaluddin, a Mujahid of Jami'at, killed the commander of the militia battalion in Aliabad, Shah Zada, on December 30. Helaluddin was also shot dead by the bodyguards of the commander. After the incident, the regime forces surrounded Helaluddin’s house, confiscated his properties and arrested his old father.
    • A SCUD missile, fired by the Kabul regime, landed in a Mujahideen-controlled village outside the city of Kunduz on December 28 killing 4 and wounding 34 villagers. Commander Arif Khan reported.
    Seventeen houses were destroyed and 180 cattle were killed by the SCUD.
 Jawzjan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the positions of militiamen belonging to Ghafar band near the provincial capital killing Nazar Bai, a militia commander, and injuring seven militiamen on December 30, Commander Qazi Yasin reported.
    The Mujahideen destroyed one security post and captured 12 Kalashnikov rifles, one P.K machine-gun and some ammunition and foodstuff.
    Fifteen armed militiamen have surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Qala-i-Naw of Sar-i-Pul District
    One Mujahid was killed and 11 sustained injuries in the operations.
 Commander Ismail Khan has reiterated his resolve to continue Jehad against the Kabul regime till the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     In a message on the occasion of the seventh month of fighting in Zindajan, he said the Kabul regime attacked Zindajan to disrupt the reconstruction and development activities of the Mujahideen and to prevent them from launching attacks in Herat and the neighboring provinces. The regime also wanted to destroy an efficient administration created by the Mujahideen close to the city of Herat which was ruled by a corrupt administration.
     The Kabul regime launched a massive offensive against Zindajan, West of the city of Herat, on May 4. It made use of thousands of tanks and artillery pieces and tens of jets in the attack. The irrigation canal of Zindajan was cut in the first day of the attack. Regime troops ransacked the UN office and depots.            N
     Eighty percent of all the houses, schools and mosques of Zindajan have been destroyed. Farms and fruit trees have dried due to lack of water. The silk industry which provides!, job for the local people was destroyed. More than 50,000 people became refugees leaving behind their belongings.
     Despited difficulties the Mujahideen continued to resist the enemy and denied it any territorial gains. Aerial bombings which reached up 100 sorties per day failed to dislodge the Mujahideen from their trenches in the town.
     The enemy has paid a high toll for its invasion. Around 5,000 enemy soldiers have been either killed or wounded. More than 150 tanks and trucks ol: the enemy have been destroyed and two of its jets have been shot down.
     The Mujahideen casualties are relatively low. About 80 Mujahideen and civilians have been killed while 250 have sustained injuries.
     The Mujahideen control the town The enemy has established some posts in the desert around the town. While fighting still continues, it is clear that the Kabul regime has failed in its adventure and has paid a dear price for his mistake.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15, 1992, page ©
VOK begins trasmission
    Voice of Kabul, a radio station of the Mujahideen has started to broadcast programs for the people of Kabul.
    The station has been set up by Commander Anwari of Harakat Islami (Shaikh Mohsini party) some* where near the city of Kabul. The radio which broadcasts in media wave bands of 1200 and 1300 has a daily transmission of 45 minutes beginning from 7:45 pm (Kabul time).
    According to a Harakat source, the purpose of starting radio transmission is to neutralize disinformation spread through the regime’s TV and radio against the Mujahideen. The source claims that the people of Kabul have welcomed the radio broadcast and listen to it with keen interest.
      There are other radio stations operated by different Mujahideen groups. MIDIA, the information office of AIG, is running one radio station which broadcasts on shortwaves. Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar and Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani have their own radio stations. It is said that Haqqani's
 station played an important role during the fighting in Khost and in Gardez.
     The first Mujahideen's radio station became operational in late 1981 in Panjshir. It was an FM transmitter which broadcasted programs in Dari, Pushtu and Russian languages. This radio was heard in Panjshir, Shemali and the city of Kabul. Its transmission stopped after two of its technicians were killed and two others were captured during an offensive.
     The Supervisory Council has prepared the ground for establishing a shortwave radio station..
     In a country where most of its people are illiterate, radio is the most useful means of communication. The Mujahideen do not have a strong radio station to be able to compete with the radio broadcasts from Kabul and Moscow.
     Most of Afghans get their daily in-fonnation from foreign broadcasts, especially BBC and VOA. The Mujahideen radios are not able to compete with these radios neither technically nor in contents of programs.
Hezb commander killed, in Badakhshan Province
                    Ali's control became limited to part of Zardew, a side valley of Baharak.
                      Confrontation with Mullah Younus forced Sayyed Ali to take refuge in Yaftal, near Faizabad, where he was
      Sayyed Ali, the provincial chief of Hezb Hikmatyar in Badakhshan, was killed by another Hezb commander. Mullah Younus, in Gharan valley, Ishkashim District, on October 15.
      He begun Jehad in 1979 as a member of Jami'aL After the Soviet invasion, he developed problems with other local Mujahideen commanders and joined Hezb.
      By 1986, he controlled part of Yamgan valley, including the lapis mines, and with the help of his party friends started to create trouble for supply line of the Jami'at in Nooristan.
      After reorganization of Jorm District by Sayyed Najmuddin, Sayyed ---------------------; \
    Zabuli returns to Kabul
       A sources within the Kabul regime has claimed dial Abdul Majid Zabuli, a wealthy Afghan who owned many factories in Afghanistan before (he war, has agreed to return to Kabul from mole. It is said dial he made this promise in a meeting with Khaliqyar in New York. The source has not disclosed the date of Zabuli's return, but, it is thought that he may return to Kabul in the spring. The Kabul regime has promised concessions for investment in Afghanistan but as long as the war continues, there will be no
 protected by Commander Basir Khan of Jami'aL After the liberation of Ishkashim and Sheghnan,.Sayyed Ali moved to Gharan, a valley close to the border with Tajikistan, where he was killed by Mullah Younus' men.
     Shahadat, the official organ of Hezb, praised Sayyed Ali as a true Mujahid and called for the punishment of the culprits whom the paper described as ’the agents of the enemy1.
 Afghan wrestler wins gold medal
    Three Afghan wrestlers defeated their Pakistani, Bangladeshi and Iranian opponents in an international wrestling championship held in Lahore from 4 to 6th of December.
    Nasir Ahmad won a gold medal, Abdul Karim a silver medal and Roozi Khan a bronze jnedal. They belong to the Arif Shaheed wrestling club in Peshawar and took part in the games as members of Railways Team.
    Commander Anwar, a former wrestler of the Afghan national team and the trainer of Arif Club, has asked the Mujahideen leaders to provide facilities for the young and talented Afghan sportsmen.
    Wrestlers of the Arif Club wil take part in the games organized in Teheran on the occasion of the anniversary of the Islamic Republic.
    The volleyball team of Jami'at Island won the second position in a tournament contested by 30 Pakistani and Afghan teams.
    The tournament was held on January 2 and 3. The Civil Quarter and Jami'at teams reached the final. The Civil quarter team won the first posi tion leaving the second position to Jami'aL
    Jami'at Islami has paid attention to promotion of sports among the refu gees in Pakistan and Iran. Jami'at formed a sports committee in 1985 which was renamed as the Olympic Committee of Jami'at Islami in 1989 The committee has 1800 members who are active in different sports fields.
    Jami'at's volleyball, football, wres tling and martial arts teams have won many matches.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15, 1992, page ©
L.
  Editorial
 UN optimism not realistic
    Optimism expressed by Benon Sevan, the personal representative of the UN secretary-general for Afghanistan, about finding a political settlement of the Afghan issue in the near future is reflective of the wishes of the people of Afghanistan rather than expression of objective conditions leading to peace.
    Desire for peace is common among all Afghans. The people who have suffered for 13 years want peace as soon as possible.
    The Afghan people fought Jehad to achieve two objectives — expulsion of Soviet troops from Afghanistan and establishment of an Islamic government in Kabul. The first objective has been achieved. But the second objective, complementary to the first one, has not been achieved yet. This is the reason for the continuation of war in Afghanistan.
    The Kabul regime which was brought to power by the Red Army is not ready to give its place to a representative government. The Mujahideen are not ready to make a deal with the communists in Kabul or give them a chance to play a political role in the future of Afghanistan.
    The UN five-point formula has some positive items but for the solution of the current crisis it proposes intra-Afghan dialogue --holding talks between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime— for the formation of a transitional administration. The Mujahideen are not ready to talk to the communists.
    Under these circumstances, talking about a peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue in the near future does not seem realistic.
    The only new development in connection to the Afghan issue is implementation of aims embargo by US and Russia which came into effect from first of January. While Washington has every reason to abide by the agreement, there are reasonable doubts that Russia and Central Asian republics might not implement the agreement faithfully. Even if the agreement is implemented, it does not guarantee the end of war. As Commander Masood has said: "Arms embargo prolongs the war instead of ending it.”
    The UN plan to convene a meeting of all Afghans to discuss transitional arrangements will not lead anywhere if the effective forces of the Mujahideen do not take part in it. Foreign pressure to force the Mujahideen to set with Kabul around the table of negotiations will not work.
    But this does not mean that the door for peace is closed and war is the only way to solve the Afghan problem. Peaceful solution of the Afghan problems is possible if the regime transfers its power to a transitional broad-based government. The UN can play a role to arrange transfer of power to this administration without negotiations between the Mujahideen and the regime.
    The UN also should support the political initiative of the Mujahideen to solve the Afghan issue. Views expressed by Sevan about Moscow talks were negative.
    The UN should also avoid giving undue importance to the individuals who played no active role in the resistance against the Soviet invaders. Any attempt to bring forward controversial personalities, like the former king, will complicate the issue further. Jam'at is ready to support the UN efforts for finding a political solution without comprising on its principal stand. It believes that political efforts backed by military pressure will end the communists rule in Kabul,
TILM

     'A TOWN CALLED TALIQAN' is the name of a 40-minute documentary Him shown on BBC television on December 28.
     The film, directed and filmed by Chris Hook, tells the story of the largest town controlled by the Mujahideen. The documentary, partly financed by the UNHCR, shows that Taliqan is peaceful and its people are busy doing their daily works. The people of Taliqan praise the security and political stability brought to the town by Ahmad Shah Masood. A refugee family has returned from Pakistan and is busy building a house for himself. But, Masood opposes a large-scale return of refugees to Afghanistan due U) war, presence of minefields and harsh economic conditions.
     The Supervisory Council has created offices to help the reconstruction of the area. Engineers belong to CBR, a private construction organization, are shown surveying a bridge in Khanabad, Kunduz, that needs repair.
     The peace in Taliqan is disturbed by aerial bombing of the town by the regime. Planes drop their bombs from high altitude hitting the center of the town , the market and a bus stand. More than hundred people, including women and children, are either killed or wounded. Inhumane attack on civilian targets forces thousands of the people of Taliqan to leave the town. The hospital of the town is full of wounded people. Patients with serious wounds are lying everywhere in the hospital.
     Bombing of Taliqan is described by Masood as an act of revenge by the Kabul regime for its military defeat in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad. It is also aimed to prevent the Mujahideen activities against other military targets.
     The ordinary people of Taliqan are very angry and question the logic behind bombing a peaceful town.
     While Masood enjoys the support of the majority of the people in the area, there are some people who oppose him for political reasons. A person who planned to kill Masood at the start of the year admits that he was bribed by Hezb Islam i to commit such a crime.
     The documentary must embarrass the Kabul regime for attacking the civilians targets.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Allauddin Khan
    Commander Allauddin, the deputy of Commander Ismail Khan,     has led thousands         of Jami'al
 Mujahideen in the battle against the Soviets and the communists regime in the strategic province of Herat for more than a decade.
    Allauddin has played a key role in creation and development      of    a
 Mujahideen miL.^ry and civilian organization which controls parts of Herat and its neighboring provinces.
    He has      been   leading   his
 Mujahideen in Zindajan battle which has continued for seven months.
    Allauddin , being a military officer before joining the Mujahideen, has organized his Mujahideen in the form of a regular army. He said this system has proved useful because martyrdom of the commander of a unit does not lead to its disintegration.
    He served as a communication officer in Herat when the people of the city rose against the communist regime of Taraki in March of 1979. Scores of Soviet advisors and regime officers were killed and the city fell to the Mujahideen. This victory became possible, when a groups of army officers decided to join the people instead of fighting them. Ismail Khan and Allauddin Khan were among them.
    After three days, Soviet planes bombed the city and regime forces, brought from Kandahar and Shindand, attacked it. Around 20,000 people were killed and the popular uprising was crushed. Many people fled to the mountains and some managed to cross the border into Iran. Allauddin took refuge in Iran.
    After a few months, he and Ismail Khan returned to Herat, and began armed struggle. Later, they visited Peshawar and brought with them some guns and and rocket launchers. The Mujahideen in Herat chose Ismail Khan as their leader and Allauddin became his deputy.
    Despite tremendous problems confronting the Mujahideen in Herat, they put up a heroic resistance against the Soviet invaders and their puppets. Herat is a relatively flat area. Shindand air base is located close to it. The road connection Shindand to the Soviet Union passes through the major par^s of Herat. Soviets and regime had deployed about 50,000 troops in the area. Herat is located far away from the cen-
 ter of Jami'al in Peshawar making resupply and communication difficult Iran, for many reasons, was not able to provide the needs of the Mujahideen. The Kabul regime allocated enormous amount of military and economic resources for Herat These problems prevented the Mujahideen from expanding their organization and limited their military gains despite rendering great sacrifices. Commander Allauddin rejects tfiis claim of his opponents that the strict policies adopted by Amarat, headed by Ismail Khan, has forced some people to join the regime. He said those who joined the enemy bad no clean past. They took arms against the regime but did not abandon their bad habits and immoral acts. They had not joined the Mujahideen to promote the cause of Islam.
     Allauddin Khan, like Ismail Khan, is famous for his piety, courage, simple way of life and independent thinking. While these qualities have earned him the admiration of the ordinary Afghans, they have caused some troubles for him from some foreign circles and his political rival within the Mujahideen.
     Amarat made an important political initiative when it convened the first meeting of fields commanders in Saghar, Ghore Province, in June 1987. Commander from many parties and coming from different areas took part in the meeting. The quick changes in Afghanistan did not allow convening similar meetings.
     In addition to his fighting activities, Allauddin Khan has been visiting Pakistan and Iran regularly to get supplies for His Mujahideen . He has also visited France, England, Holland, Sweden and USA to speak in support of Jehad.
     Allauddin went to the military school in Kabul after he graduated from the primary school of his village in Shindand. After Graduation from the communication department of the military university in Kabul in 1972, he became a communication officer in Zulmaykoot Division in Herat He served there until he joined the Mujahideen in 1979.
     He started to make friendship with Ismail Khan when they were the students of military school in Kabul. They

                                                                              To page (8)
    '• Four Afghan refugees, returning front Iran have been killed by 1mm Baluch armed men close the border with Pakistan, Sometime ago£ armed clashes took: place between in Quetta, ftfjfhgi in feeder;
         'ethnic:
  two groups.
'Wjhe ' Kabiil' ';.regime s has announced Lhe release of 100 political
 Vice President. Nikolai R utskoL He Waute&'jitw, Mujahideen ;oners /b|; released 6** the rogime/i& pave way for the release of Russian 'prisoners!" Rdtskbt| promised giving
 §§J|$|d^
 by the supporters Of the fornrer king was disturbed by the regime supporters on December.28. The demonstration was organized by Zia American Afghan. His first demonstration met . the: same end on 13.                        -  /Iwl
 ,0.7
     Ibrahim Bakr* the OIC special envoy to the Mujahideen, has said that a four party meeting is being organized in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to discuss peace process in Afghanistan,: Afghan Mujahideen, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Iran will attend the ta&% Na date' frasbeen fixedTor the
                                                                                                                           the ,Mujahideen
        and the rod cross
                                                                                                              lief goods to the regime rod crescent
                                                                                                             %• oaq- ]be,a3.wht^ing:'tm exercise for.
------------ AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15, 1992, page ©
Cmdr. Masood's view about military, political situations
    Dr. Lafraei              *
    During my trip to Takhar, 1 had the honor to be present in Commander Masood's interview with foreign journalists and also hear his views on some other occasions. I will briefly present his analysis of the military and political conditions of the regime and the situation of Jehad:
 Military conditions of Kabul regime
    After withdrawal of the Red Army troops, the regime forces adopted defensive postures. Slowly, however, they moved to an offensive one. Last year it seemed that the regime had been able to develop itself. But this year, with Mujahideen's victories in Khost, Khwaja Ghar, Zindajan of Herat and other provinces, the situation changed. Now the regime forces are again fighting a defensive war. Their moral is increasingly coming down.
    Composition of the regime's military forces from ethnic point of view poses a strange problem to Najib. High level officers are mostly Pushtuns, but those who play the most significant role in Najib's defense today are mostly non-Pushtuns. Najib can trust neither. The officers have already established contacts with Mujahideen parties to save their necks. It is also possible that the militia forces change their allegiance some time in the future. Thus, on the one hand the relations between the army officers and the militia forces are tense, and on the other hand, both are unreliable for Najib.
    The military forces which Najib has been able to deploy effectively are: (1) armored force, (2) air force, (3) rocket force, (4j militia. But they increasingly lose their self-confidence by the passage of time. If the Russians really stop sending supplies, soon the regime will face problems, especially in procurement of spare parts. Although the regime has huge stockpiles of ammunition, they will not be sufficient for long term wars. In Khwaja Ghar, General Baigi used the artillery ammunition which was supposed to have been sufficient for several months in only one week. During the same war, the regime failed to find BM-21 rockets in its depots in Kunduz, Baghlan, and even Mazar-i-Sharif.
    At the moment (mid-October),
 Russia is rapidly pro-mainly consist ^
 fact raises ques-
 Russians in theii "negative symmetry” agreement.
 Political conditions of Kabul regime
     Hie Watan Party is in deep crisis. Khalqis are naturally not with Najib. He has only been able to purchase some of them by offering high level posts. Najib does not trust his defense minister, Watanjar. Thus, he has given more authority to General Rafi, who is a "Vice President".,
     The Parcham faction itself has several smaller factions within it The two main ones, who are always seen in struggle with each other in the Central Committee of the party, are (1) Sulaiman Layeq and his followers, and (2) Mazdak, Kawyani and their followers. Najib tried to solve the problem several times but failed.
     Najib is neither popular in the party nor does he have much authority. It is KHAD (WAD) who is running the show, not Parcham. When Babrak came to Kabul, both factions of Parcham welcomed him very warmly. The factors which have made Najib unpopular are his cruelty, dictatorial manners, sinister plottings, and ethnic tendencies. The leftist groups (other than PDPA) had gathered around Najib out of fear after withdrawal of the Russian troops. Now they are deserting him.
     Najib has totally failed in his so called "National Reconciliation" program as well. He could neither attract the people, nor the commanders, nor the leaders. It seemed that some changes in favor of Najib were taking place abroad. Except France, however, no other western nation resumed diplomatic relations with Kabul. Iran had gotten closer to Najib to some extort last year. But it became cautious after realizing the reaction of the Afghan people. In the Third World, Najib enjoys only the support of India. The changes in Eastern Europe and inside the Soviet Union and the fall of the communist
 parties have had grave negative impacts on Kabul.
    The regime is also becoming increasingly inefficient in its administration. Embezzlement and bribery have reached a maximum level. The reason is that every official is preparing himself for a life in exile. The peace propaganda of the regime has also negatively influenced the morale of its members.
    The Watan Party has realized that it is impossible to rule for much longer. Now it just hopes to play some political role in the future and survive.
 Situation of Jehad
    In Spring of this year, the regime designed a plan according to which Khanabad should have been captured by the regime forces in the first quarter of the Afghan year. In the second quarter, a two-pronged attack from Khanabad and Khwaja Ghar would have been launched on Taliqan leading to its fall to the regime. In the third quarter, a huge supply convoy should have reached Badakhshan.
    Liberation of Khwaja Ghar and territories beyond Kookcha was a great victory for Mujahideen not only because it foiled the regime plan, but also because it brought large territories under the control of Mujahideen and almost totally wiped out the communist groups of SAZA and SAFZA. The Khwaja Ghar operation was designed to coincide with operation on Khost. Eng. Bashir's (chief commander of Hezb Hikmatyar in Takhar) attack on Bangi and his attempt to capture Taliqan, however, postponed the operation for several weeks. Liberation of Khost was also very important for Mujahideen, and so was the heroic defense of Zindajan in Herat These wars broke down the deadlock which prevailed on Jehad after the Jalalabad incidentof Spring 1989.
    Mujahideen's military strategy should be the same as adopted in the Commander's Council in Shah Saleem in Fall 1990. That is, focussing on enemy's weak points and slowly moving towards larger cities, and finally to Kabul. After liberation of Khost and Khwaja Ghar, simultaneous operations should have been launched on Gardez, Ghazni, and Faizabad of Badakhshan. Plan of operation on Faizabad was prepared. All the Mujahideen commanders having bases around Faizabad agreed with the plan. The operation was sup-
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 2, January 15,1992, page 0
 posed to begin in early fall. Some friends of Jehad breaking their commitments and premature snow-fall caused postponement of the operation. As for simultaneous attacks on Gardez and Jalalabad which took place, if Ghazni or Qalat had been selected instead of Jalalabad, it would have been much better.
     It may be possible for a single Mujahideen party to grab power in Kabul through a coup. It would be impossible, however, to rule the country. If operation on Kabul is undertaken, it should be on the basis of a united plan under a united command with the participation of all the Mujahideen parties. A coup inside Kabul simultaneous with attack from outside will be useful. But all the contact persons of all the parties in Kabul should cooperate in the coup Political efforts to find a solution to the Afghanistan problem may not bear fruits without military pressure. Any political solution which (1) does not include either Najib's regime and party or Zahir Shah in the interim gov eminent and (2) guarantees establish ment of an Islamic government on the basis of general elections can be ac ceptable. Down fall of the Najib regime either through political or military means is beyond any doubt.
rom Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
    to return from Russia
        Most of the 130,000 Afghan and Pakistani youths studying in Soviet Union are married to Soviet girls, MIDIA reported.
        Most of these married students are not willing to return to Afghanistan after the changes in the Soviet Union.
        About 10,000 of the students are from tribal areas of Pakistan, the rest are Afghans. A considerable number of Pakistani students carry Afghan travel documents.
        Alexander G. Kalanderishvili, the editor in chief of the Interval Magazine and a veteran of Afghan war, told MIDIA reporter that these students have earned money by bringing commercial goods to USSR. Money makes them attractive to the Soviet girls, he said.
        Soviets had taken thousands of Afghan children to Soviet Union during their occupation of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen believe that they were being taught communism. The Mujahideen asked the Russian delegation in Islamabad to return the Afghan children.
     During my visit to Badakhshan, in Summer of 91,1 got hold of a few copies of Paygham-i-Mujahid ( the message of Mujahid), a monthly paper published by Commander Sayyed Najmuddin's front
     The paper is printed on one face of a paper of size A4 . It does not have a fixed number of pages. The sheets are stuck together with a stapler. The articles are typed on a stencil paper by a mechanical typewriter and printed by a duplicating machine. The paper is bought locally while ink and stencil are brought from Pakistan. Due to shortage of paper, Paigham-i-Mujahid has a circulation of only 300 copies.
     One reads many interesting articles about different aspects of the Mujahideen activities—their recons (ruction and educational efforts, their political stands regarding the local and national politics and introduction of local leaders.
      An interview with Sayyed I Najmuddin, throws light about his activities from the start of Jehad and his future plans. As a leader, he sends a message of sympathy to victims of floods in Wardooj valley and reduces the prison terms of two prisoners on the occasion of Muslims festival of Eid.
      Construction of a new irrigation channel in Khostak of Jorm, construction of a town in Baharak and repair of Baharak road with the financial assistance of the UN are part of the news about reconstruction activities of the Mujahideen.
      The paper publishes articles about religious importance of Eid. It also reports local sport activities such as volleyball matches between teams of different schools and Buzkashi tournaments between teams of different valleys.
      Poems are given enough space in the paper. Local poets write poems about the bravery of Mujahideen, atrocities committed against the people by Soviets and the Kabul regime and many local problems.
      The paper sympathizes with the struggle of Muslims all over the world for achieving their rights, especially the Muslims in Central Asia. The political articles of the paper covers both internal and external aspect of Jehad politics. The paper reject political solution through negotiation with the Kabul regime. Unity among the Mujahideen in
 Badakhshan is an important subject for the paper. The paper has published many articles about efforts made by the commanders of Badakhshan - Sayyed Najmuddin, Basir Khalid, Sayyed Mahyuddin and Mullah Sayyed Amir -- to coordinate their activities. It expresses optimism, perhaps too much, about solving misunderstanding between Basir Khan and Sayyed Najmuddin. This is an important local issue with serious consequences on the military and political developments in the area.
 What makes Paygham distinguished from other papers published by the Mujahideen is the great number of women whose articles and letters are published in the paper. This is an indi cation of a relatively liberal approach by the local Mujahideen towards the freedom of women in the cultural and educational fields.
 Paygham-i-Mujahid has many shortcomings in its appearance and contents. Little attention can make it good source of information about Badakhshan. It should be printed in good quality paper by a proper printing machine. Paper and machine can taken from Pakistan. Now that the ve hides can travel between Badakhshan and Chitral, transportation of printing machines is not difficult The paper needs to improve its writing style and avoid too much flowery language. The editor of the paper Mr. Mahshar, needs some basic training in journalism. A simple news items are being buried under piles of unnecessary sentences and words. In reference to a particular rival party which creates problems for Jami'at, for example, the paper uses the term "agents of the enemy" which could be confusing. It will become more confusing after passage of time, especially, for those who have little knowledge about the local politics during Jehad years.
      Being a mouthpiece of a Mujahideen organization, it does not criticize the local administration. To make itself credible, the paper has to demonstrate a degree of freedom in reflecting the views which the local administration may not totally agree with.
      Despite its shortcoming, Paygham-i-Mujahid is the only written source of information about the liberated areas of Badakhshan. It can be used as a source for research.
                                           AFGHANews Vol8, No 2, January 15,1992, page ©
UN peace efforts gain momentum
    The meeting in Rome between Asif Nawaz, Chief of the Army Staff of Pakistan, and Sardar Abdul Wali, the cousin of the former king, generated debate about Pakistan's policy towards Afghanistan.
    Asif Nawaz met with Wali in the residence of the ambassador of Pakistan in Rome during a 'social gathering* on January 2. He was on his way to Washington for official meeting with Americans.
    Some Mujahideen leaders reacted sharply to the meeting. Hikmatyar told a press conference, held in Hezb base on the border, that the meeting showed a negative development in Pakistan's policy towards Afghanistan.
    Pakistani officials met with Hikmatyar after his press conference in his base and discussed with him the meeting in Rome.
    Pakistani officials say their position is misunderstood. They are not favoring any individual as a leader of the interim government but their efforts are aimed at supporting the five-point UN plan.
    Some people speculate that the meeting in Rome was organized before the Asif Nawaz's visit to Washington to show that Pakistan was not supporting the 'fundamentalist parties 1 anymore. Others believe that it was a reaction to the refusal of the Mujahideen leaders, to release Russian prisoners during Rutskio's visit to Islamabad.
    Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy for Afghanistan, has intensified his efforts for finding a political solution to the Afghan problem. He left for New Yoik after visiting Moscow, Kabul and Islamabad. It is said that he will propose to the UN head convening of an intra-Afghan meeting in February, in Geneva or Ankara. The Composition of a transitional government in Afghanistan will be discussed in this meeting. The UN wants the non-controversial figures from Mujahideen, Kabul and Afghans living in the West to participate in the tails.
    Sevan has shown optimism about prospects of peace in Afghanistan. It is certain that all the Mujahideen will not take part in a conference in which people from Kabul are present. It seems that Sevan wants to exert international pressure on the Mujahideen parties to
prepare them for the talks by issuing invitation to them and fixing a date for the meeting.
    The UN has started to believe that waiting for all the Mujahideen parties to join the peace process is not necessary. The statement that "the train of Afghan peace will not stop for those who do not want to get into it" is being repeated more often. Many foreign countries think that leaving the hardliners out will not affect the peace process.
    Willy Brandt, former German chancellor, has invited all Afghans to a seminar to discuss peace process in Afghanistan.
    Invitation letters have been sent to the Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani. The conference will be held in Bonn on January 27 and will last for three days. It will be divided into two sections. In the first section, on January 27 and 28, the Mujahideen leaders and refugees living in the West will take part. Representatives of the Kabul regime will be invited to attend the conference on January 29. It seems that this conference is a rehearsal for the UN sponsored intra-Afghan dialogue.
    Some Mujahideen leaders have refused to take part in the Bonn conference while others are studying it.
    The Kabul regime and refugees living in West have welcomed the talks. Khaliqyar might represent the Kabul regime in the talks. Observers from US, Russia, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and Iran are also invited to the conference.
  Cmdr. Allauddin
                                                        From page (5)
were not involved in political activities because the school did not permit such activities.
   . Allauddin was bom 41 years ago in Aamarat village, Shindand District. His father, Amruddin, was a farmer. Allauddin attended the school mosque of his village to learn the basics of Islam. He was a good student and got the highest grades in his class. He belongs to a Tajik family.
    Allauddin is married and has five children. His family lives in Iran. He had the honor of performing Haj some years ago. IBs Mujahideen call him Haji Commander.
Leader receives Filex Ermacora
     Jami'at Islami leader Prof Rabbani has discussed with the UN human rights reporter Dr. Filex Ermacora the human rights situation in Afghanistan and outcome of his Moscow and Islamabad talks with the Russians. Meeting took place in the Political Office of Jami'at in Peshawar on December 30.
     Prof. Rabbani briefed the UN envoy about the Moscow accords and said that the Mujahideen were committed to the implementation of the agreement and they released fiver Soviet POWs after the Moscow agreement.
     He said because the talks . in Islamabad were not properly organized and Mr. Rulskoi's delegation did not include representatives from the Asian republics, one could not expect further progress.
     Prof. Rabbani said: "Despite some remarks made by Mr. Rutskoi in Islamabad and in Kabul which were contradictory to the Moscow agreement, the Mujahideen are interested in implementation of the agreement."
     Reacting to an article published in AFGHANews about amnesty granted to the militiamen and soldiers of the regime in Takhar and Badakhshan, Dr. Ermacora asked for more information about this important event in the field of human rights. Prof. Rabbani threw some light on the issue and promised to send more information in the future.
     Prof. Rabbani extended invitation to the UN reporter to visit the northern part of Afghanistan at a proper time to see the situation by himself.
     Jami'at leader praised the sincere efforts by Dr. Ermacora to defend the rights of oppressed Afghans.
     Jami'at political office has sent a copy of the documentary film, A TOWN CALLED TALIQAN, to the UN reporter to back up its reports that the regime was launching aerial attacks against civilian targets.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
       JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan ___________________