                  ce;TCZkiT ABOUT PHSSgHT GBI-ISVA TALKS ■             ■%
    IIow tlio 7th round of. talks are talcing place in Geneva for a political solui.iozL»±JD~-the- pr ob 1 an of Afghanistan.,--Solas- cixcleQ,..^rfi-jsoacexned' about the possible^ unjust-outooae-o^T'^hese--tallis.. which..woulxfUlaaria the
           A                      ,     ■ i
people of Afghanistan.
    Mujahideerr are- those who are primarily concerned,...about these.tallies; Their concern ig-undexs'taadable -becauce..±alks.-are going on .about‘.Afghanis tan but the people of Afghanistan have not been asked to take prat in them, Mujahideen have repeated their positions on a number of occasions. They will• not—accept-'-the outcome of any talks which they..do not talcs part in. ICugahideen think, that--there--are only two sides in the conflict in Afghanistan, the Soviets who-have invaded our.country and, the Mujahideen who defend it against tile invaders.
    An 'American official who was asked by the members of the congress about a ooscible sell out of the Afghan cause rejected the idea but gave unreasonable explanations. He said that Mujahideen are not part of the negotiation because in 1902 when the talks began the Mujahideen were not united, flow that, they have formed a coalition they are being kept informed. In 1902 the Mujahideen were not asked to take part so they were not given the chance to send a delegation. Ibw that they are united they do not have any role to play except to wait for the news to reach them,. The question is not one of information. How can someone solve the problem 6f Afghanistan while the people of Afghanistan do not have any opportunity to talk about ,the future of their country. How can some countries provide guarantees for the implementation of the agreement in which, the people of that country do not participate.
    More than that we witness a contradiction in the policy of those who support the Geneva talks and at the same time, vote for annual U.N’s' resolutions. In the Geneva talks there is no talk about the ri glit of the oeople of Afghanistan for self-determination and the restoration of the non-aligned status of Afghanistan.
\fghaj^news______________________ no._ii_____1^6-1986______p-2______
   While the annual resolutions of the U.N are a good base for a political solution the Geneva talks in their present format will not bring about any solution. If an agreement is reached that would legitimize the Soviet occupation and give legal status to the notorious puppet regime, it would not be a solution but the begining of more trouble for the people of Afghanistan, the region and the world as a whole,
              A CIVIL WAR OR THE WAR FOR LIBERATION
   The Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979. Since then more than 100,000 men of the Red Army have been engaged in a war against the people of Afghanistan. Their invasion under whatever name it hides , is considered by the majority of the people of thet world as aggression « The struggle of the people of Afghanistan is aimed at getting the Soviets out of Afghanistan, This is why their struggle is a war for liberation.
   Unfortunately some irresponsible journalists have started to call this war of liberation a civil war. They want to give the impression that Afghans are killing Afghans and this way minimise moral pressure for the Soviet soldiers. It may be that they are arguing that- the pip-pet army is fighting Mujahideen. However the role of the puppet army is secondary and relies completely on the Soviets for all their activities.
   Furthermore history has recorded the fact that when an invading anny comes to occupy a land a few thousand materialistic opportunists bet* ray their people and join hands with the invading army while a large number of people axe also forced to work for'the invaders as soldiers. The quisling regime in Finland is a good example for understanding the puppet regime in Kabul, Before the Soviet invasion there was a war in Afghanistan. People wanted to get rid of the Communist regime. The regime had the material support of the Soviets and Soviet advisors even helped the regime against the Mujahideen. One may call that war a civil war because it was not a direct invasion. After 1979 the situation completely changed and the war for liberation started which has continued ever since.
   Some hard-line journalists use the term of rebel for Mujahideen even after the invasion and want to give legal status to the puppet regime in Kabul. Once the writer of this article asked a journalist why he insists on calling them rebels when he knew that the Mujahideen are fighting against foreigners, not a legal government. He said that that was true but his boss likes it that way. I hope the directors of the papers and news agencies become more realistic and mention us by our true name not by the terminology which our enemy uses.
VOL.II
NO. 11
1-6-1986
 %
"AFGHAN HEWS
 P-3
     Disasters are nature and the Chernobyl incident was one of them. Ho matter how much we hate the ..Soviet- government-'we' can..not~-critxcine .them .. for the incident itself. What is important here is the v;ay Soviet leaders dealt with the disaster. They tried to keep it a secret for as long as possible and they tried to pls.y down its dangers. Even though the in— cident—whirh will have an effect on the life of other people thousands ~of miles away can not. be considered small. This incident revealed the nature of MoscowAs—pjcdntojdLan-. dictatorship-whioh^xs afraid -of -telling the truth to its oeopie.
                                                                        n
     The Soviets claim that their system is the best . When such an-incidents occure. they~try to ..conceal it so as not to be criticised for the-eir failure. This incident also revealed the true nature of the Soviet system-in .its lack of care for millions of people- outside—the-Soviet bor-
~~ders.                         ,
                         NEWS FPOK THE BATTLEFIELD
 17-5-1936        -
 According to a report from Karukh district of Herat, Mujahideen of Jaxaiat--have, been able to liberate the villages like Kohi Chasht, Badazn Tow, Has-jid, Kazaax~ lbxd~and Dan, Chawbi. fliese,,vl II ages ..have-been,.,under—enemy^-s control.
 Deports add that during 3 days operation, Mujahideen killed 30 enemy soldiers and captured 31 light and heavy weapons. Five 1 lujahids were,mart-
 yred and ten injured.
                                JEGDALIK
                   According to a report from Jegdalik from 27 April to 51 ay Mujahideen . _ successfuly attacked three times on three different posts and outposts «
               -they were able to inflict heavy losses on them.
                            G.HQISAUD DISTRICT
 On 23 April, the Soviets and DHA forces intended to close the route to Herat province by using tanks and artillary. The fighting continued for
 3 hours.
 Mujahideen of Jazniat resisted well and as a result of which 20 Soviets and their puppets were killed and many others wounded. One Mujahid was martyred in the operation.
 During a. clash between Muj'ahideen and Soviets near Shindand District the Soviets lost 2 personnel carrier and its crew by rocket fire of Mujahideen. During this fighting 25 Soviet-puppet soldiers including Abdul Dali' commander of puppet post were killed.
    An Afghan IJews reporter talced with Basir Ahmad Ghoryani, a senior cozamander in Herat. Here we present some of his views about himself and situation in Herat.
 AFGKAH NEWS
VOL. II
 no. 11
j1-6-1936

•-Srk-
              Commander Ghoryani was a student in. the faculty of literature of Kabul University before he joined the resistance in 1930. He has been
  active inside Herat city and has participated in more than one hundred...........'
 _jcoggsrfdcrrK3--6.gsi-ant..Jf^^          haixr-puppets.    He has been captured
twice by the enemy forces but was able to brealr_ou±_£roajiaiiX-^nd.-en'Cape.
   The first time, he was captured on the 11 I larch 1973, He end 60 other prisoners escaped from the prison by digging a tunnel 0-3 meters long. Digging the tunnel took 36 nights using Knifes and iron spickes which
  were smuggled to then by their relatives. That time he was in jail.........for
  6 months.
     rj*<=--         ■-oc.iu-thct-tbce—s-econd time he had a meeting with soite
  informers. These men betrayed hiEu--The—<aaa±Jx-ben*ence--was,-peissed oh him
 by a.Special Revolutionary'■'Court. Only Gabrak's signature was needed for
  the.execution of the order. He and his friends made a hole in' the ceil-
  ing of the prison and jumped off the roof- joining -Mu jahideen who were
 •-nosiitijoaed-only—one_kii.ome1?er-- from. - the* jail.
                                  «*
     Then he -was ached about latest situation in Herat he said that the
  llujahideen.. there.are..doing quite well. Ghulaa Kasool a militia .commander., ■
  was hilled a few v/esks ago.                           jxrcdex regiment--of the
  puppet, regime was also hilled recently.
     He added that the enemy policy—art—hhe. nowerrfc .Is^-heavy-aerial .-aad.gro- -• und.bo^barArients-jof'"the _yilinger,-^/jhich aims to. destroy-their means of living and drive the.peoole out of their country.
     Concerning Soviet bases xn the area, the commander said that the Gov-' iets had two main bases there, namely Ghindand and Ilir Dawood. He mentioned that the Soviets were making extensive use of SU planes against I-Mujahideen. The commander has scan some very long rockets on long vehicles but does not know their name or other specifications. The commander hopes ■ that' the Iraq-Iran war will soon come to an end because it has ..'drawn the .attention of Iran from the serious problem on its eastern border .
     About Soviet plans in the area, the Commander said the formation of militia units and the blocking of supply routes of llujahideen are their ^priorities. The commander was asked if he had any proposition for the leaders of the parties and he replied i; they must be united;j. About the problems for the llujahideen. he complained of the laclc of enough weapons and ammunition. He aaid that they do not even have mine detectors fo clear the mine fields which the Soviets have planted inside the villa-ges. This is why Mujahideen and so many people are killed or,maimed . He added that in Hhad of Herat, Soviet advisors are interrogating prisoners. According to another prisoner,, the enemy has now built an under ground §
 orison in Herat which is. .30 stems below the surface of the ground.. Ho “ *
  sun-light reaches the prisoners,
  Commander Ghoryani belongs to Jamiat Is1ami Afghanistan^and works closely under commander Esmaeil Khan.
                                                                                                      *
 AFGHAN NHWS_______VDL. XI_________NOi_ll________l-fe-1^86  __P-5_____
                   LESS FRUIT FOR MAZAR AREA
    According to informed sources the people around Mazar will have very little fruit this summer. The reason for this is that after a very mild winter the blossom came early but this was then destroyed by severe weather in the springi
    Fruit compansates for the shortage of food* This year because of lack of rain and continous fighting the farm production will be less than last year and growing only a small amount of fruit adds to the problems of th. P«opl..                                                ■   ,
                          DIVIDED FAMILIES
    The war in Afghanistan is a disaster for the family system. Because of repeated offensives people move from one place to another. Some leave. the country and become refugees in neighbouring countries or other parts of the world. These people have left relatives behind* Some times they axe able to send letters but often they even do not know where members of their family are.                                  j
    Lack of economic opportunities and forced conscription in enemy controlled areas have forced a large number of young people to leave the country. They have left behind mothers, sisters, brothers even wives and Children.
    There are thousands who have children of 2 to 3 years old who they have never seen. They have only their photographs.
    Imprisonment is another cause of separation. Thousands of Afghans are suffering in jails and do not have permission to meet their families.
 By forced conscription a large number of people are taken to serve in the puppet army. They are either killed or blown up by mines when they want to desert. Others take refuge in neighbouring countries and their families do not know what has happened to them. The Communist coup and then the invasion was a great blow to family life arid this side of our society has been hit harder than Others.
    From all the signs one can see the tragedy will not come to an end in the near future. Every effort is being made by the enemy to establish themselves permanent. While this is happening the world is paying little^attention and the Soviets are not being criticised as they should be and^reasonable step is being taken to end this tragedy. As every one is a member of a family and knows how dear the family is more attention should be paid to this tragedy.
 NEWS
 A Biweekly Bulletin Of Jami’at Islam! Afuiianistan. Post Box No. 2C4, Peshawar - Pafc<«t*n. Vol.'ll. No. 12   , IS / 6 / 198^.
                 PROXIMITY TALKS FACING REAL PROBLEMS
    The 7th round of Geneva proximity talks, on Afghanistan started with a great; deal of Optimism but ended with no real achievements. They will start again later but they can not lead to real peace because they are not based on sound foundation.
    The desire for a settlement is found every where and Afghan people who suffer the most are more interested in peace than any body else. But if the peace process is not based on reasonable foundations the achievement of a peaceful solution is no more than wishful thinking.
    The weakest point of these talks is the absence of Mujahideen and Soviets., (the two parties of the war )»• from the talks. As fax as we know there is no possiblity of such participation in the present format' of the talks. The vague term of consultation with refugees will not satisfy the Resistance.
    The Soviet absence makes any deal less certain and not even worth trying. The Soviets have been given the status of guarantor equal to the status given to the U.S. It is a great tragedy to equate the two countries. One is the invader and the other is accused of helping die freedom fighters. This is in line with the Sovietts pretext that ’’for-iegn intervention caused the invitation for the invasion".
    The absence of an arrangement for the exercise of the right for self-determination, changes the whole talks to something which calls for the surrender of Freedom Fighters to the Soviets. This means the recognization of a regime which was imposed in 1979 by 85,OCX) Soviet troops. Even if this unjust arrangement takes place and-the people of Afghanistan are deprived from a political base and access to free world media there are a large number of technical problems and possible Soviet reactions which are not yet answered..
    If the refugees do not feel safe and decide not to go bade under the rule of the puppet regime and the Soviets what will happen? If they go , should they go with arms of without arms? should they go to
 the liberated areas or Soviet—controlled areas. Once they:, are there.
 ft-
                       ft;ft-/V.'-V - /: ' \;V' :V
                          ■   -:';'v.-v-ft;' '.'■: ;';,;;'-;-/-::f■ V<V;7*-
     AFGHAN NEWS.        VPU  H  ...  NO, 13__________Uh*rl?86   ftfe&

     if the regime starts hilling and massacring, as I am sure they will, who will stop it. I am also sure that the Mtijahideen will not compromise but will continue to fight (who can accept some one who is not part of the agreement to abide by it). What will the Soviets do then? Will they stop pulling out their troops or if they see their puppets are in real danger would not they re-invade to rescue them?. If they did, what would be the world's~reaction?. What happens to all one-sided Soviet-imposed treaties signed between the puppet regime and their Masters ?. They have signed territorial concessions and mutual defence treaties, After the so-called peace agreement in Geneva all these treaties take a legal form and the Soviets will have a free hand to deal w$,th the Resistance.
        Because of all these concerns the Resistance believes that these present proximity talks will not lead to peace but to more complicated problems. If the Soviets are interested in peace they should end the war which they have brought^ The key to any solution is in the hands of the Soviets unless they decide to solve the problem no peace will come and the hard fact at the moment is that they have not decided to solve the problem, but to win through military means or deceitful policy
  f
\
.1       Terrorism is a problem of today's world and some terrorist come
     from the Middle Bast. This gives an opportunity fpr some to attack not only muslims but Islam. The Afghan cause is some how suffering from this ,,
        Terrorism is a problem. It is a global problem and can not be limi-ted to one area. Terrorists come from all sorts of back-grounds and are not confined to one race or religion. While it is right to fight against   j
     them by proper means one can see that such a war is not limited to the individual responsible for terrorist action. The ill-feeling generated by terrorist actions is against the terrorist's fellow countrymen.
        Middle Bast is in turmoil. Several wars have been fought there and still peace has not been achieved . Big massacres have taken place there v« with the support of one state or another. Because of all this it is an 4 area where terrorism can be expected .
        We Muslims completely reject any type of violence in which innocent „ oeoole are involved. We condemn individual terrorist actions and state-sponsored terrorism, be it of xvhatever political complexion.
        The problem is that so-called anti-terrorist propaganda in the West is not limited to terrorists.Their race and religion is condemned at the same time. In the West when somebody commits a crime he himself is an individual while an act of terrorism from an individual from the Middle East is attributed to Arabs and Islam. Due to lack of knowledge of Islam all this propaganda has negative effect on the Western mind
AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II

 ■ /Mfi

 ISsSslgSi.
JEhSL
     which is detrimental to muslims as a whole.
        Hhe:BUMtSyaedia in the West is not reacting in a responsible way. It is not careful about the words it uses and the back-ground it shows. For example, when news of a terrorist crime is being broadcast on television a shot of muslims praying is shown. This gives the impression that all muslins are terrorists. If this situation continues and if the secret hands of Jewish and Christian fanatics continue to fan the fire, mutual suspicion between muslims and the Western world will increase. "'One * should not forget that the Communists (Soviets) are waiting to exploit this situation and spread their ideological and political influence in the Muslim world.
                                                                            *
        We believe prejudice against other religions is very rare in the Muslim world. Muslims respect Moses and Jesus Christ as true prophets and consider the old and new Testament books sent by Allah. The people of the book (Christians and Jews) are granted the right in Islam of practising their own religions, -
        Apart from anything else the cause of Afghanistan is suffering too. We Afghans are muslims and our struggle against the Soviets i* carried on under the banner of Islam. Since awareness of Islam is limited, any coverage of terrorists which blames Islam can cause reluctance amongst Western societies to support the just, clear and Islamic cause • of Afghanistan.
        We hope that the mass media in the West will behave in a more responsible way and attribute terrorist actions to the individuals or groups who do them, not to all Muslims and Arabs.
        We muslims believe that any action endangering the life of innocent people is wrong and reject it. At the same time any counter-terrorist action which goes beyond proper limits and endangers the lives of innocent people is condemned. But any attempt to use individual cases to implicate Islam itself is a crime. The West should be on their guard against Zionist malice which seeks every opportunity to defame Islam and muslims and finally no effort should be spared to solve the problem which underlay terrorism, the sepse of frustration felt by people driven from their homes and massacred in refugee camps, a frustration which reveals violence itself in and can be used by irresponsible politicians.
                     news _
     17-5-1986
     In an operation conducted by Mujahideen of Jamiat in Jaji of Paktia province, the Mujahideen encountered a detachment of llussian-DRA forces and after heavy fighting between the two sides, starting at 3:a.m , more -than 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. In addition. Mujahideen siezed five gins (two Goorinov machinguns, Klashinkov and 2 AK-74s along with a heavy mortar).
     Five Mujahids were seriously wounded in the operation. The areas are
AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II
NO. 12
I5-6-1986 ,, ,.. P-4,
     under Mujahideen control and the enemy forces axe scattered over the area in defensive positions.
 26-5-86
2ttt3.ck6d
According to a report, Mujahideen^a Russian post including two residences of Soviet advisors in the Shena Gandoo area about three kilometers from Saroobi district. The attack resulted in the killing and wounding of 25 Russian soldiers and in the destruction of a military vehicle.
     In a joint air and ground offensive by Russian-DRA forces on liujhhideen bases in Teezin area,.       •'     ,  the Mujahideen were besieged 1$y the
     enemy for seven days. After raising the siege, the Mujahideen returned to their base without casualty.                y
     The Russians while entering the evacuated houses of people, poisoned food and gunned down animals such as horses and donkeys. On the way'back two tanks and one oil-tanker- of the enemy were blown up by mines layed by the Mujahideen.
    24r5r86
    In an operation against the enemy. Mujahideen captured two DRA sergeants along with three soldiers. The report adds that 0 AK-47s and 2 AK~74s were also captured by Mujahideen in the operation in Paghman area.
    26-5-86
    In retaliation, enemy forces air raided the Mujahideen-controlled areas and as a result some minor damage was incured by the property. In return, the enemy lost 6 tanks destroyed by Mujahideen rocket fire.
    22-4-86  .                 HERAT^PROVINCE
    An enemy armoured column comprising 200 tanks and APCs proceeding to Reeya Niqra area with the intention of wiping out Mujahideen bases in'the aforementioned area encountered Mujahideen resistance with the result that the enemy lost 21 soldiers among whom was a political Commissar from 112th DRA brigade.
    25-4-86
    On the eve of 7th of Sour anniversary, the Russian-DRA forces backed by 300 tanks, infantry soldiers and long-range artilleries moved towards Karta area. The enemy purpose was to deploy these forces in the area for the protection of Soviet and government high-ranking officials celebrating the anniversary in Bagh Karta area.
    The Mujahideen started shelling this locale with cannon and heavy guns resulting in the destruction of two tanks and the killing of many officers and soldiers.
    2-5-86
    Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Mughol Bacha and Suhar areas and killed or wounded 20 soldiers and captured the rest. Thirty different kind of rifles and a large quantity of ammunition were-also'seized from; the enemy.
AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II

UTfe12-86.
JS=L
        According to a report from Jaraiat representative in India, Eng.Mohammad ICabir, Indian police authorities have not permitted Afghan refugees in India to demonstrate against Soviet embassybto mark the black day of 27th April —the day Communists took power in Afghanistan.
        Jamiat office in India in a press release has strongly condemned the action taken by India or Ghandi dynasty police authority. The press release reads" "... we'Afghan refugees took this undemocratic attitude of the government with great pain and distress that India being the non-aligned and democratic country playing with the sentiments of the Afg-
                                                                        i
     han people ignoring all norms of humanity as well as its ageold relation
     with the Afghan people ..."
        The Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979 but still there are a lot of countries who have embassies in Kabul and are trading partners xvith the puppet regibe.
        All these countries, on several occasions have rejected the legal status of the puppet regime end have not offered any formal recognition to it. These countries which include muslin countries* (except Saudi Arabia) non-aligned countries and Western democracies have voted for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops and the recognition of the right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination.
        But still they have deploraatic relations with the puppet regime and the regime enjoys a normal trading partnership with them. We believe that any such relationships are a weak point which the Soviets and their puppets are fully exploiting.
        Fuppet Babrak some months ago mentioned that his regime has diplomatic relations with a large number of countries and that it is a sign of that his regime is enjoying de facto recognition.
        It is incomprehensible hovmone could have a relationship of any kind, under any name with a regime which has come to power under the Soviets and does not control a major portion of the country of its population.
        The time has come to correct this and give recognition to the Afghan resistance and cut all relations with the puppet regime. The presence of foreign embassies in Kabul, under the protection of Soviet troops is a humiliation to the countries who keep them there.
        VJe think most of the countries in the world have embassies in Moscow and there is no need for having a presence in occupied Kabul. VJe aak from all those who are concerned about the cause of the freedom of the Afghan people to cut their relationship with the puppet regime and end the contradiction of verbal support for Mujahideen.
AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. X*
NO. 12
I5r6.rx.986_______Erfi.
         The newspapers have reported that the puppet regime and the Soviet Union have signed an agreement on a phased withdrawal of Soviet troops if an agreement is reached in Geneva. By this the Soviets are trying to give the impression that there is a free government in Kabul which could ask for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. This is an attempt to prove that they came at the invitation of the Kabul regime/andrnow they will leave with their agreement.                             ,
         The whole world has rejected the idea of the invitation to invade and they know about the true nature of these types of agreements. A regime whose existence is guaranteed by the Soviet presence, a regime whose leader is replaced by the Soviets, a regime whose institutions are answerable to Soviet advisors can not have such agreements with the Soviets. Their relationship is the relationship of master and slave. All these games are to decieve world opinion about the realities of the situation in Afghanistan and thereAsome who quote these as real developments.
         If these so-called agreements are given weight, the Soviets can sign thousands of them with their puppetSv*S they have done in the past. We reject all such steps as propaganda games of the Soviets to decieve world opinion.
             L^3_I^;1^§^1§>P§ath_co^^_by_^jahidebn
         The leader of Egyptian muslim brotherhood,' Umar Talmas any died at the age of 82 last month. He spent 19 years of his valuable life in Naser's jail and suffered in the defence of his belief. Talmasani as the leader of am Islamic movement took great interest in the cause of the Islamic world, specially the Afghan cause.
         He visited Pakistan and met with Mujahideen and Muhajureen (refugees) and exchanged ideas. His death is a loss to the Islamic movement and we pray for his soul and hope that his followers firmly follow his path, the path of revival of true Islamic order in all the muslim world.