 And why should ye not fight in the cause of God and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated and oppressed ?                     —IV/71)



MARCH/APRIL 1982
THE VOICE OF A
1- Why We Are Not Democratic ?
2- Putting Islamic Principles into Practice in the 20th Century — An interview with leader of •Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan.
On inside pages:
                  Some of the martyred Mujahids of Jamiat-i-lslami Afghanistan who fell victim to aggression of the Russians in Afghanistan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
Vol. I, No. 2          March/April 1982              Price: US $ 3.00
CONTENTS
                                                          Page
—   Editorial                             .      .    , >   3
—   Interview with Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani            8
—   Afghanistan in the U.N.                                14
—- Afghanistan Issue                                       15
—   Russian Crimes and Mujahideen’s Heroism                17
                                     •       V 1 I'
—   Reports of Gas and Chemical Use by Russian Invaders    20
      against Afghan Mujahideen
—   Information Dependancy: Russian Domination of          22
      Afghan Mass Media
—   Interview with Muhammad Anwer, Mujahideen              25
      Commander in Jegdaleg Front
—   Proclamation by the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan       31
      Mujahideen in connection with the Commemoration of March 21st as the “Afghanistan Day”
—   Russian Political Manoeuvres & Hypocrisies to Deceive  36
      the World on Afghanistan Issue
—   Do Russian Know About the Crimes of Their Government 52
      in Afghanistan
—   Reports From the Battle Fronts of Fights Between the   56
      Truth and the Falsehood
                    A bi-monthly publication of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan
         OUR MOTTO:
           #  Allah is Our Ultimate Goal
           #  Prophet Mohammad is Our Leader % The Holy Quran is Our Constitution % Jihad is Our Way
           % Martyrdom in the Way of Allah is Our Highest Desire
          Published by
      Political Committee of                          Acc. No. 100
   Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan                     Habib Bank Ltd.
    Post Box NO. 264, G.F.O.                        Kochi Bazar Branch
      Peshawar — Pakistan                        Peshawar   — Pakistan

  EDITORIAL
        WHY ARE WE NOT “DEMOCRATIC” ?
         We live in a complicated world. To make sense of the phenomena and events around us, we have to resort to simplification. Simplification is a recognized need, but it should be based on facts and should not distort the reality. Unfortunately, most of the simplification by Western journalists about Islam and the Islamic world lack this criterion.
         One of the common simplifications about Muslims and Islamic groups is dividing them into “fundamentalist” and “non-fundamentalist” or “moderate” groups. This is applied in the case of Mujahideen groups as well. Such a conceptualization does not make any sense to us. Islam is Islam: the complete and everlasting religion. Anyone who adheres to the lofty teachings of the Holy Quran and traditions of Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) is a Muslim. It is not possible to accept some parts of them and reject some other parts. As the Holy Quran beautifully states: “Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in, and do ye reject the rest ? But what is the reward for those among you who behave like this but disgrace in this life ? And on the Day of Judgement they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty. For God is not unmindful of what ye do” (Al-Quran 11/85).
         One of the common criticism put forward against the “fundamentalist” groups is that they are not “democratic”. Our reply as Muslims is that: YES, WE ARE NOT “DEMOCRATIC”. This is not something to apologize for. We are proud of what we are and others’ criticisms do not bother us. Our hope is that the world tries to understand our position and understand why we are not “democratic”.
         First of all we believe Islam is a complete religion. It encompasses all aspects of life: spiritual, social, economic and political. The political principles of Islam are clear. The form of government at the time of Prophet Mohammad (pbuh) and his righteous caliphs provide us the best example of an Islamic regime. The government of a Muslim society should be an Islamic Government. There is no need to define it by adding words such as “democracy," “nationalism,”..........etc.
3
        Secondly, when we say “democracy”, it is not clear what we mean by this term. There have been so many different forms and definitions of “democracy”. Do we mean the democracy of Greek City State — from where the word “democracy” originated ? Do we mean the democracy of the 18th and 19th century Europe ? Do we mean the democracy that prevails in the West today ? Do we mean the type of democracy claimed by the communist states in Eastern Europe and elsewhere ? As a matter of fact, we are fighting against the "People's Democratic Party". How are we expected to cherish the word and use it in the name of our form of Government ?
              With vigilance and respect for the people, Mujahideen search transports on highways to find and arrest Khalq/Parcham members and sympathisers
        We believe when Western news media criticizes Islam of not being “democratic", it has in mind the type of “democracy” that exists in North America and Western Europe. It is right in considering Islam against such a democracy. In Western democracy sovereignty belongs to the people; whereas in Islam sovereignty belongs to God Almighty. What difference does it make and which one is better ? We explain what difference it makes and leave the judgement to the reader tou decide which one is better.
                                                      4
      When sovereignty belongs to the people, they can decide whatever they like and the decision will become the law of the land. The people decide drinking alcohol is permissible, and it is permitted. The people decide smoking hashish, pornography, homosexuality, are permissible, and they become lawful. Actually, sovereignty of the people is responsible for most of the sickness of the Western civilization. There are at least two reasons why it leads to the corruption of the society. On the one hand, man is created weak. It is true that God Almighty has made man his vicegerent on earth (Al-Quran: 11/30), and it is true that He has given him capabilities and qualities to which even angels prostrate (Al-Quran: 11/34). But man can reach such a status after a long journey of evolution and growth. Along the way he needs guidance from the Creator. He will be lost if he is left to himself. On the other hand, in every human society a number of people are more ambitious, more energetic, and more selfish than others. If there is no restraint on their whims, they will certainly lead the masses to misery (material and/or spiritual). Such people would either misuse the ignorance, apathy, and animal drives of the masses to make them decide and behave the way these people want (and this is what happens in Western democracies); or they would hold the outright power in their own hands and justify their crimes by attributing them to the masses (and this is exactly the case with communist democracies).
      But when sovereignty belongs to God Almighty, man has to act within the framework of the limits set up by God. God is the Creator and knows His creation the best. He knows what is good for man and what is bad. God has decreed that man should have limited free will. But He is Beneficent and wants man to go to the path leading to his prosperity in this world and hereafter. He will not leave His creation—and certainly not man whom He has created “in the best form” — uncared for and going astray. God has guided man throughout the ages by sending messengers. Muhammad (pbuh) is His last messenger who brought the Message and Guidance in its complete form. The Message is preserved in its complete and original shape as the Holy Quran — unlike other messages which were distorted by man; and it is illustrated by the traditions of Prophet Mohammad. The Message provides man the principles and basic guidelines, it is up to man to draw up the details according to the conditions of his time and society.
      A thorough discussion of this issue is beyond the scope of this editorial. But we hope what was mentioned above arouses the interest of the reader to study more about this subject and judge himself whether it is better for the sovereignty to belong to God — the Almighty, Omnipotent, All-knowing, Beneficent — or to the people — created with
                                                 5
 great capabilities and potentialities — but still in need of God’s Mercy and Guidance.
        For some people democracy might mean “government of the people, by the people, for the people” without attribution of sovereignty to the people. If this is the definition of democracy, then it is in accordance with the teachings of Islam, and Islam will not be against such a democracy. According to the Holy Quran, the people should obey the leader who comes from among themselves who in turn obeys God and His Messenger (Al-Quran: IV/59). Racial origin, social status, family relations, and abundance of wealth do not qualify a person for becoming a ruler. What is important is piety [ “The most honored of you in the sight of God is the most righteous of you” (Al-Quran: XLIX/13) ]-, “abundance of knowledge”, and “bodily prowess” (Al-Quran: 11/247). The ruler should conduct the affairs of the society in consultation with the people (Al-Quran: III/159, XLII/38). And the aim of the Islamic State is “to administer justice and provide security and protection for all citizens, regardless of color or race or creed ...” (Islam in Focus PI 131)..
 vtitpjjr hna rtvnsrt itwo itadj ru' -rswoq trfcaixiuo adi bind Munw verb to
                    Khalq-Parcham related cadres arrested while conspiring against Mujahideen
       Again we do not want to get into detailed discussions. Our aim is to provide some evidence for our arguments. If they are not convincing, we beg forgiveness of the reader for our shortcoming, and request him to study more about Islam, and to pray with us and with Dr. Ali Shri'ati (great Muslim revolutionary thinker) that:
 “Oh Lord ! Save my ‘belief’ from my ‘prejudices’.
 “Oh Lord! Endow me with the power to endure ‘opposite’ believes.
 “Oh Lord ! Grant me the wisdom and insight not to judge — positively or negatively — before ‘proper’ and ‘thorough’ understanding of a person or an idea.
 “Oh Lord! Deliver me from man’s four Grand Prisons: ‘Nature’, ‘History’, ‘Society’, and ‘Self’. Deliver me, oh my Creator, so that I become my own creator — the way that You created me — and to adapt the environment to myself, not to adapt myself to the environment — as an animal does. ........."
                                                 7
                 INTERVIEW WITH PROF. BURHANUDPIN RABBANI
     Following is the full text of an Interview with Professor Burhanuddm Babbani, the Leader of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan. The interviewer was a Western journalist, and the interview took place on February 22,1982 in Peshawar City.
Q. I thank you for giving me the opportunity for this interview. My questions will mainly be concerned with the Unity and the future of Jehad. At the beginning, will you please comment on the differences between your Unity [ i.e., the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen consisting of 7 Mujahideen groups ] and the Unity of 3 groups ?
A. Our Unity which is supported by the great majority of the Afghan nation is based on a clear ideology which is Islam. We began our struggle on the basis of this ideology long before Russians invaded Afghanistan and will carry it on until we reach our goal which is the establishment of an Islamic regime in Afghanistan. Our brothers in the other Unity, however, do not have a clear ideology and program for the future of Afghanistan. They have gathered together on the basis of some temporary and transient interests. Such a Unity cannot last for very long. This is why they feel a vacuum, and this is why you hear some of
    them talking about' Zaher Shah or some other corrupt personalities of the past regimes. They want to fill their vacuum with these people. Moreover, their influence inside Afghanistan is very limited.
Q. You speak as if all the groups in your Unity have consensus of views; whereas I have noticed differences among the parties in the Unity.
A. We all base our views on the Islamic Principles and we all have agreed to carry on our activities in an organized form. I have not noticed any deep differences between ourselves and others. Of course there are differences of personalities and backgrounds. But this is a recognized fact, and we hope to completely remove the secondary problems arising from these differences by the passage of time.
Q. But the actual problem is putting the Islamic Principles into practice, specially in the 20th century. Do you have any model
 This is a D.Sh.K. captured from invading Russian forces. It is a good weapon and has increased the fighting capability- of the Mujahideen.
   for your type of Islamic government ? Many people mention the time of Prophet Mohammad as a model; but is it practical ? You have so many versions of Islamic government in the 20th century: Turkey (under Mustafa Kamal), Iran, Libya.
A. First I should explain a common misunderstanding. When we say we want a government on the model of the early Islamic pattern, many people think we want to move the history backward and have a living condition exactly the same as 14 centuries ago. They think a government based on that model cannot be compatible with the con-
ditions of the electronic age. But the issue is not as simple as they think. We do not see any difficulties in implementing the principles and values which prevailed in the time of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) in our society. We believe those principles are applicable in national and international affairs today as much as they were at that time, and they will be applicable no matter how much the world advances. I will give you an example. Justice is an Islamic principle. It was implemented in the time of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) to the extent that when a noble lady stole something and
9
 some gentlemen came to intercede, the Prophet exclaimed: “By God! If my daughter Fatima steals, I will cut her hand !” Now the implementation of justice is as much applicable today as it was at that time, Or take another example. Islam enjoins seeking knowledge as a duty of every Muslim — man and woman. Today the form of seeking knowledge might be different, It is studied in schools and universities now and it was otherwise at that time. But seeking of knowledge is as much practical today as it was 14 centuries ago — and even much more. The same is true about the national and international politics. Islam enjoins that the leader of Muslim Umma (society) should be chosen from among the people. This was done in the case of the righteous Caliphs. And today election of the ruler is the most advanced form of government. Shoora (council) is an Islamic principle. It is the order of the Holy Quran to Muslims to decide their affairs on the basis of consultations. This is almost the same thing you have as a parliament today. In international affairs. Islam tells Muslims how to regulate their relations with the "people of the Book” (i.e., Christians and Jews), and how to treat the non-believers. It orders Muslims: “But if the enemy incline towards peace, do thou (also) incline towards peace, and trust In God: for He
    is the One, the Hearer and Kno-wer (of all things)” (Al-Quran: VTII/61). Islam enjoins on its followers to have good and friendly relations with all the people until Islamic ideology is not suppressed, until Islam has the freedom to present its ideology to all the people. And this is the right of freedom of speech, and no one can object to it today.
    You mentioned of Islam under Mustafa Kamal. You should know that he was an enemy of Islam, not its proponent. What happened in Turkey was not an Islamic revolution, it was a joke and nonsense. Instead of borrowing science and technology from the West, Mustafa Kamal borrowed dressing fashion and wearing of pantaloon ! If there have been extremes in the application of Islam, it does not bother us. We do not see any difficulties in applying Islam in our society: the Islam which is not an impediment in the way of knowledge, science, technology, peace and justice and the Islam which is an obstacle and enemy to oppression, corruption, ignorance, exploitation and imperialism.
Q. Probably it is too early to ask about the details of your future Islamic Government, but would you have a parliament ? Would it be the continuation of the present High Council of the Unity or something else ? Can
10
   you show a model for your Islamic Government ?
A. Of course we would have a parliament in our Islamic Government. As I mentioned, it is a Quranic injunction. Regarding the present High Council, you should know there are a lot of things during a revolution which are transient, and this Council is transient as well. With future changes and developments, this Council might be dissolved into a larger and more comprehensive council. Regarding your question about a model, for us Islam is the best and the most complete model. We do not need any other model. Parts of the Islamic Model have been implemented more or less in some countries. But Islam gives all the Muslims the right to design wavs and means for the implementation of Islamic principles and values in their societies according to their own Ijtehad.
Q. How do vou see the role of Mullahs (religious leaders) in future Afghanistan? Do you predict n tension between Mullahs and the persons with modem education? As you know Ulema (religious scholars) have played an important role in the Iranian revolution; would Mullahs have the same role in Afghanistan ?
A. Ulema’s role in Iran and Afghanistan is different from each other. In Iran, Ulema played a great role during the revolution
   and after its success. In Afghanistan, Ulema are playing an important role in the revolution. But traditionally Ulema have refused to take an active part in the government. The Afghan history is a witness that Ulema returned to their teachings and preaching position after their active role in the revolutions. So we expect the same thing after the success of this revolution. But we are careful. Ulema might like to have a greater role in the future government. So we try to create an atmosphere of understanding and cooperation between Ulema and the people with modem education. One of the purposes of the present Unity is exactly this. We want to close the distances and gaps and prepare the minds for cooperation and coordination.
Q. What role do you see for your self in the future leadership of Afghanistan ?
A. This is the question of the morrow. Actually, in the future of Afghanistan the Unity should play a leading role. Here the question of personalities is not important. It is not important who becomes the leader. What is important is the victory of our Islamic revolution, and the establishment, of an Islamic Government. .
Q. What do you think about the Afghans who go abroad ? There are a lot of Afghans for whom
11
    it is difficult to live in Pakistan or fight in Afghanistan. I asked some other leaders about them and they said they were not interested in them and that they would not have any place in Afghanistan in the future. Do You have the same view ?
A. No, I have a different view. We are disturbed over the brain drain from our revolution. We try to remedy the problem in two years. First we try to provide suitable conditions for the stay of educated and talented brothers in Pakistan. We have established the Scientific and Advisory Society in Islamabad to gather a number of brothers there for finding solution to the present problems of the revolution and the problems which we will face in future in Afghanistan. We plan to put the base of a University for Afghan youth run by Afghan professors and staff. A number of professors work in this field and programs for some of the Faculties have been prepared. We hope we can obtain the approval of the Government of Pakistan for this project. We know that inspite of our efforts we would not be able to keep every one here. So the other way to remove the alienation of the Afghans from the revolution is to keep in touch with them wherever they are so as to make them feel they have a nart in the revolution and to utilize their talent and energv for the service of the revolution
                                  The heroic Afghan Mujahideen, after shooting down the enemy’s helicopter gunship devise ways to use the rockets against their oppressors
  Q. In your budget, do you give priority to military or cultural and educational activities ?
  A. In our view culture and education should have the priority. But we are living in war conditions. Our people’s lives, culture, liberty and dignity is threatened. We should first try to save the people’s lives to enable them receive education. This is why we have been forced to give priority to the military activities at the moment.
  Q. How is the relationship between the headquarters in Peshawar and the commanders in the field.
12
   There are rumours that the relations are tense. They say the only reason they are together is that the commanders need the headquarters for getting arms and the headquarters need them for carrying on the fighting.
 A. It is not the question of need; it is the question of thought and ideology. It is true that if the relationship is not based on principles, the problems would arise. But if the commanders are following the same ideology and way of thought that the headquarters adhere to, and if they all strive for reaching the same goal then the tension would not arise. And even if there are some problems, they would be trifle and can be solved easily. We have also heard such rumours. But I assure you that they are just baseless propaganda by our enemies.
 Q. How are your military plans made ? Do you decide here in Peshawar or are they decided in the field ?
 A. Strategies and large operations are planned here. But because of the communication problem and peculiar conditions of each area with its own capabilities and constrains, commanders in the field are authorized to undertake military operations against
    the enemy at their own initiative.
 Q. My last question is about help to Mujahideen. What type of assistance do you want the West to be provided to you ?
 A. Our small country has been invaded by a super power. What goes on in Afghanistan is a tragedy for the humanity. We, Mujahideen in Afghanistan, have undertaken our responsibilities. In this situation the responsibilities of other countries is certain. All the world should realize its duty and take action to fulfill it.
 Q. It is true that the whole world has a responsibility. But should it give arms or not? There are different arguments. Some people say more arms to Mujahideen means more people killed in Afghanistan. But some other people are enthusiastically in favour of providing arms to Mujahideen.
 A. There is no doubt that we need arms. Russia tries to destroy our liberty, culture and religion, and we are determined to defend ourselves no matter if we get arms from anywhere or not. Not having arms means more innocent Afghan people getting killed and the whole country being destroyed.
13
                     AFGHANISTAN IN THE U.N.*
 Dear sir,
    This is with reference to your editorial, “Afghanistan in the U.N.” (Sept. 21). I would like to draw your attention to the following aspects:
    (1) The “worldwide” support for a particular stand looks rather unconvincing when it is urged in arrogant language unbecoming of a high-standard journal of whatever political hue. It is a matter of regret that the ‘Muslim’ should have chosen to leave the proven path of promoting all initiatives and activities which could help solve a complicated political issue peacefully by-negotiators among the parties concerned.
    The government of GDR has made it a consistent policy to do everything which could further this aim, reduce tension and bring about a negotiated settlement of the situation as it has evolved around Afghanistan.
    The proposals of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan of August 24, 1981 — the full text of which has not yet been published by a single Pakistani newspaper including 'The Muslim’ despite all
 claims of "truthful journalism” — should be examined realistically and cooly, keeping in mind that the chances of coming to terms are still there, provided one does not question the internal set-up of a country, which no country including Pakistan could ever accept.
    (2) It is similarly regretful to read the allegations against the nature of the alliance of the GDR with the Soviet Union as well as against the GDR’s stand on the Afghanistan issue in international forums. Our alliance over the past 30 years has served us well and proved dependable, strengthened our sovereignty and secured the GDR a top-ranking place among the world’s industrial nations.
    One cannot always say the same about other alliances and agreements entered into by different nations at different periods of time. Therefore, the German proverb, “don’t throw a stone while sitting in a glass cage,” should be remembered well.
    It is, however, hoped that a more sober and qualified assessment of other countries’ policies will prevail on the pages of The Muslim in future.
 * This is a letter written by Mr. W. Gerber, Charge d’Affaires a.i. Embassy of the German Democratic Republic in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to the Daily "Muslim” Rawalpindi which was printed by the newspaper in its issue dated 28.9.1981.
14
                    THE AFGHANISTAN ISSUE 4
 Dear Sir,
    First of all I appreciate your stand on Afghanistan and your support of a just cause. I hope all the people of the world realize their responsibility in this regard and take a strong position against Russian aggression.
    In reference to the letter by East German Charge d’Affaires (Sept. 28), I would draw your and his attention to the following points:
    1.    Mr. Gerber says: "The ‘World wide’ support for a particular stand looks ratner unconvincing..’' It is not clear what he means by this. If he wants to put forward this as an excuse why his government "Sang to his master’s voice,” it is unconvincing itself. There are universal norms and values to which all nations are—or claim to be—committed, values such as peace, liberty, justice, freedom, self determination,
 territorial integrity___ If such
 norms are violated by an aggressor, “World wide support" should develop for a "Particular stand” against it. If the aggressor and its agents are not convinced, it is understandable. God Almighty tells about them: "Satan has made their deeds seem pleasing in theif eyes, and has kept *
 them away from the path, so they receive no guidance” (Holy Quran XXVII 24).
    2.    It is a matter of regret to argue that the truth should not be told lest it upset the aggressor and decrease the chances of a “Negotiated settlement.” Mr. Gerber is not the first one to put forward such an argument. His master—i.e. Russia— has tried to sell this idea any time there has been an international conference which would discuss the Afghanistan issue. As a matter of fact, just before such a conference, Russia and its puppet in Kabul try to create such an atmosphere as if a political solution to the problem was at the door. But when the conference is finished, they intensify their barbaric attacks on innocent people (See our recent booklet: “Russian Political Manoeuvres and Hypocrisies on Afghanistan Issue”).
    3.     The East German Charge d’Affaires wants the ‘Muslim’ to examine Kabul’s August 24 proposal
 "reliastically and cooly______” The
 question is: is that proposal itself realistic? The puppet government proposes negotiations between it self, Peshawar & Iran. None of these are the main parties in the Afghanistan problem. The fight in Afgha
                 * A letter written by the Political Committee of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan to the “Muslim” daily newspaper of Rawalpindi — Pakistan.
15
 nistan goes on between Mujahideen and Russians (and if Mr. Gerber does not believe this, he can make a trip inside Afghanistan with Mujahideen to eyewitness the truth). How can the problem be solved without their participation in the negotiations? (This point is made for the sake of argument, otherwise, we believe Russia will never be ready to a political solution unless it is forced militarily).
    4c Who has the right to decide about the “internal set-up of a country”? I am sure Mr. Gerber is forced to agree that it is the people of that country. Afghan people showed thsir resentment and hatred towards im posed communist regime in the most forceful way, i.e., armed struggle. If still East Germany and its master are not convinced of Afghan people’s view, would they agree to a referendum under the supervision of the United Nations?
    5.    Regarding the “nature of the alliance of the GDR with the Soviet Union,” I< don’t want to comment here. We have a Persian proverb saying; “There is no need to explain the obvious."
    6.    The only point I agree with Mr. Gerber is the usage of the German proverb that “don’t throw a stone while sitting in a glass cage in connection to the East German and Russian relations. I agree that East Germany has been sitting in a glass cage made by Russia. But,
 From where do Mujahideen get their arms ? Muslim soldiers like those pictured here frequently defect from the army, bringing with them modern Russian weapons. In addition, Mujahideen capture substantial arms from Russian soldiers defeated in battle
  being a Muslim Afghan, I cannot understand why shouldn't you throw a stone. It is true that you would get hurt, but is not liberty and freedom more valuable than safety and comfort?
     May Allah grant us all — deluding Mr. Gerber — the insight to see he truth and the power to work for (justice; liberty and true — peace.
16
  RUSSIAN CRIMES AND MUJAHIDEEN’S HEROISM
   There are thousands of stories of Russians’ crimes and barbarism and Mujahideen’s feats and heroism. Most of these stories go unrecorded, however. Here we would like to mention 3 stories of the recent Russian attack on Tagab, Kapisa Provinces, and 4 cases of chemical warfare by Russian troops:
STORY NO. I: Russian troops launched a very severe attack on Tagab with several hundreds of tanks and armoured cars and seve-
ral thousands of infantry — mixed with agent troops. It was winter and communication among Mujahideen was difficult. Moreover, it was a sudden attack. So Mujahideen could not organize themselves. Most of the villagers ran away to the snow-covered mountains — many of whom died because of cold and snow. Commander Mojawer with 10 of his men were in their village Bulandi of Alasai district. He learned how massive the attack was. Still
                 The heroic people of Afghanistan are determined to carry on their struggle until they attain their glorious revolutionary goals. They will annihilate any one who obstructs their way and invades their homeland
                                                      17



  W&HMtiSTM
 X. ^


i?
'.
lo
fn
he decided to resist and fight back. His old father came to him and appealed to him not to fight — which he considered in vain. But Mojawer did not accept. When the father insisted, Mojawer took some money out of his pocket and give it to his father saying that: “If you worry
about your own future this will be enough for sometime. But I have decided to fight back until I reach martyrdom.” He and his Mujahideen did fight. They destroyed 2 tanks and killed many Russian soldiers. At the end, Commander Mojawer and 7 of his Mujahideen reached their highest desire — that is martyrdom. Mojawer's father, Faiz Muhammad, alongwith tens of other old villagers, died in the snow; and his mother, who was with other women and children in the village, was martyred in the savage bombardment along with hundreds of other innocent women and children. Mujahid Mojawer is survived by a wife and 2 children.
STORY NO. II: At the heavy bom-
 bardment of the savage attack mentioned above a 2 years old child was killed in Kakar. Some women who were left in the village took his body out of the ruins. For three days his body was lying on the ground; there was no one to bury it. Finally two old men who had come down the mountain buried the body in the snow covered earth with a lot of difficulties.
STORY No. Ill: In the same fight
Mujahideen of Kacha were busy fighting against the advancing Russian and agent troops infantry. Mujahid Mula Noorani used up all his bullets. He came out of his trench to go to his Mujahid brothers and get some bullets. He suddenly noticed that a Russian soldier was on his side. Without giving the Russian the chance of shooting, he jumped and captured his Klakov. He killed the Russian soldier and 2 of his comrades and 2 agent soldiers with the captured Klakov. Finally he reached martyrdom himself.
                                              JOKE
                                   Brezhnev and his Hairdresser
Brezhnev is fond of talking when he has hair cut. So his hair dresser has to tell him stories from here and there. One day he talked about Afghanistan, and Brezhnev did not say anything. Next time again he talked about Afghanistan. This was repeated for four, five times. Finally Brezhnev got mad and screamed: “Damn it! Why do you always talk about Afghanistan?'* The barber naively answered: “Sir! Because any time that I talk about Afghanistan your hair erect and it makes my job easier!"
19
REPORTS OF GAS AND CHEMICAL USE BY RUSSIAN INVADERS AGAINST AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
CASE NO. I:
Reporter’s Name: Jameel Location: Yangi Qala sub-province of Takhar Province Date: February, 1981
   A group of Mujahideen took shelter in a cave after operation against Russia and agent troops. Their cave was discovered by the enemy forces. They tried to make the Mujahideen surrender, but they refused. Some attempts for capturing them resulted in the death of those advancing. Finally a Russian helicopter carried a local Parchami by the name of Abdul Hakim to the Russian soil — which is adjacent to this area. After an hour or so the helicopter returned bringing a group of Russians who were wearing special clothes and had with them a cylinder-like equipment. The equipment was set near the cave for few minutes. The bodies of Mujahideen were taken out of the cave after half an hour or so. The bodies were all black and swollen. The local people had difficulty burying them because they would easily fall apart.
CASE NO. II:
Reporter’s Name: Abdul Rahman Location: Tangi Kundi of Nengalam
 sub-district, Kunar Province Date: December, 1980
    Six Russian helicopters bombed the area. There were some bombs which would bum every thing within 10 meters radius. In the meantime, a kind of gas with light greenish blue color caused Mujahideen and villagers nausea and vomiting. One person died because of that gas. His body had gotten a black-blue color.
 CASE NO. Ill:
 Reporter’s Name: Noor Muhammad Location: Machmana of Asmar subprovince, Kunar Province Date: June 1980
    After a bombardment by Russian helicopters a special kind of smell overtook the forest where Mujahideen were located. It caused nausea and vomiting as well as dyspnea. There were no casualties. Mujahideen recovered after using wet handkerchieves.
 CASE NO. IV:
 Reporter’s Name: Naematullah Location: Sawkai sub-province of Kunar Province Date: June 1980
    During a fight Russian helicop-
20
ters and jets bombarded the area. At this time a nauseaus smell made several Mujahideen unconscious. Hours later Mujahideen still had
tremor. The reporter was about 100 meters away from the scene of the explosion of such a bomb, still he was affected—but to a lesser degree.
M. Shabeer Ahmad the heroic Mujahid who sacrificed his both hands in the
sacred struggle to defend Islam and his homeland
    ■___ .oWj0o *oH .BfisftA oilcfuq -is.
21
                   INFORMATIONAL DEPENDENCY:
           RUSSIAN DOMINATION OF AFGHAN MASS MEDIA
    Imperialism is a multi-dimensional phenomenon. Informational domination might not be the main dimension of imperialism hut it certainly is one of the important ones. It is more important for Russian imperialism which puts more emphasis on propaganda and fooling the people by feeding them with grand lies.
    Russians tried to penetrate into different aspects of Afghan life since the establishment of formal rela tions between the two countries over 60 years ago. On the one hand they bribed the corrupt officials of the corrupt regimes and won their favour and on the other they bought up a number of agents who directly worked for them. Nontheless, their influence on Afghan government was limited until their puppets were installed into power in 1978.
    The puppet regime gave Russians an open hand in “Russification” of the Afghan mass media—as it did with other public affairs. Radio, T.V., and newspapers—which are all governmental in Afghanistan —were included in Russians’ plan of “Russification.” Here we review briefly the activities of Russians in Bakhtar News Agency as an example of their attempt for informational domination.
   Bakhtar News Agency (here after called “Bakhtar”) is the only authority for collecting and distributing news in Afghanistan. The first step for a complete domination of this Agency was the instalment of five Russian "advisors” who directly supervised all its activities. Then the Teletype system of the Agency was connected to the Russian Spying Nest (“Embassy”) and it got a copy of whatever was communicated by the Agency to the provinces or abroad.
   Another step for the “Russification” of Bakhtar was cutting its relations with other news agencies and its dependence on Tass (Russian) News Agency. Although the puppet government, claims that Bakhtar has relations with 30 foreign news agency, it is a lie. A direct line established between Bakhtar and Tass sends all the news by Bakhtar to Tass News Agency. Then Russians at their will give the Afghan news to other news agencies in the name of Bakhtar. Moreover, Bakhtar receives the news of other agencies from Tass through a special line. More than 98 per cent of news fed to Afghans come through Tass.
    To facilitate communication between Bakhtar and Tass, a Russian Department has been established in
22
                       The courageous and faithful Mujahideen destroy tanks and armoured vehicles of the Red Army
Bakhtar. It is headed by a Tajik Russian who hardly knows any Persian. The department is responsible for translating the out-going news of Bakhtar from Persian into Russian and its in-coming news from Russian into Persian. A number of self-sold Afghans are engaged in translation job in this department. It is feared that Russian will become the only foreign language used by Bakhtar.
   What is more amazing is the programme planned for the beginning of 1361 (Spring 1982). According to this programme, the direct relations between Bakhtar and its offices in the Afghan provinces will be cut.
   All the news—domestic or foreign—will be transmitted to Moscow first. Then Moscow will transmit it to Afghan provinces! (Of course after review and necessary changes). Any one having slightest knowledge of technical matters can guess how much each minute of transmission through this channel will cost—according to one estimate it would be 17 times more expensive. And of course the cost will be paid by Afghan gas and other natural resources!
    In summary, Russians have used the following tactics to bring the Afghan mass media under their domination:

23
1-   Complete supervision of its activities,
2-   Use of Russian language instead of other foreign languages,
3-   Cutting its relations with other sources and its dependence solely on Russian sources.
4-   Cutting the direct relations among different sections of Afghan mass media and establishing an indirect relation among them through Russian sources.
                              A POLITICAL JOKE FROM RUSSIA
 In a Moscow tea house four persons were sitting around a table: a British, a French, an American and a Russian. They were talking about cars and how important they were for modem life. The British said: “Each family should have at least one car. The father can go to his office, the wife can do her shopping, and the family can go for vacation to other countries.” The French said: “No! at least two cars are needed: one to take the man to the office and the wife for shopping and the other to go to trip.” The American said: "No! Three cars are needed for each family. One for the man to go to the office, the other for the wife to do shopping, and the third very large one for the picnic of the family.” The Russian was quite and did not make any remarks. So his friends asked him: “What do you think? How many cars are needed for a family?” The Russian said: “No cars!” "What! How do you say no cars?” “Because we have a very good public transportation system which can take the man to the office and the wife for shopping without any problem. — “But what about travelling abroad?” The Russian answered: “We always go abroad in TANKS!”
   Informational dependency is the only aspect of Russian imperialism which has been successful in Afghanistan. But this success is more superficial than real. It is true that Russians have all the mass media under their complete control and can broadcast and publish whatever nonsense they want. But the Afghan people have realized this fact. They have developed their own means of getting the information. And they laugh at the stupidity of Russians and their puppets when they hear their nonsenses.
24
           INTERVIEW WITH MUHAMMAD ANWAR, MUJAHIDEEN COMMANDER ON JEGDALEG FRONT
    The commonest term used by the western journalists while referring to the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan is "tribal war.” But it is not certain what is meant by this term. It obviously does not mean that what goes on in Afghanistan is the fighting of one tribe against another. The Russian invasion is too obvious to deny. It cannot mean that the fighting against Russians and their puppets is for the defence of tribal system either. First of all tribalism is limited to the eastern and southern parts of the country whereas the fighting is going on all over Afghanistan. Secondly, Rus sians and their puppets have not found any chance to take practical actions against tribalism to stimulate the tribes to take arms against them.
    Another possible explanation of the term could be that the leadership of the war in Afghanistan is in the hands of the tribal chiefs. This would be a baseless allegation also. The leaders of Mujahideen groups in Peshawar are too well-known to need introduction. In the fighting fronts one finds tens of young educated persons who have assumed the command and leadership role. Eng. Ahmad Shah Masood in Panj-
                          Mujahid brother Mohammad Anwar, Commander of Jegdaleg
shair, Zabihullah in Balkh, Qazi Is-lamuddin, Dr.. Fazlullah and Dr. Hanan in Loghar are just a few exk amples of such Mujahid brothers.
                                                           Another example of such educated Mujahid brothers is Commander
25
                  Jegdaleg, a thickly populated village now in shambles and deserted. Most of the houses have been destroyed $pd the- residents forced
                                                to migrate.
Muhammad Anwar. He is the Commander of Mujahideen in the strategically important district of Jegdaleg—which is located 45 kilometers east of the Kabul City and joins Paktia, Logar, Nengrahar and Lagman Provinces to Kabul and Kapisa. Commander Anwar graduated from Faculty of Literature, Kabul University, in Arabic Literature in 1977. He served as a teacher in Mahmood-e-Tarzi High School, Kabul, until he joined his Mujahid brothers in 1980.
       I
wrestling matches in Kabul, Iran and Russia. He received several medals. He also served as Assistant Trainer of Kabul University Wrestling Team.
   Commander Anwar, with a smiling face, answered the questions of the correspondent of “Mirror of Jehad” about his Jehad activities.
Q. When did you start your struggle against the Russians and their puppets?
    Mr. Anwar was also a wrestling champion in the Afghan National Wrestling Team. He participated in
A. I was active against the anti-Isla-i mic rule of the past corrupt and puppet governments for many
26
   years. But I began armed struggle in mid-1980.
<§. How and why did you leave Kabul and join the fighting against Russia?
A. I carried on my anti-Russian activities inside Kabul City as long as I could. But as soon as the puppet government learned about my activities, I left Kabul and came to Peshawar, Then I went to Jegdaleg—my home town—and organized a group of Mujahideen
Q. How big was your group at the beginning?
A. It had only 20 Mujahideen.
Q. How many Mujahideen are under command now?
A. More than a thousand Mujahi deen.
Q. Are all of them armed? And from where do you get your weapons?
A. Not all the Mujahideen are armed. We have shortage of weapons. All the weapons we have come from the Russian and puppet troops: Klashinkovs, Grinovs, D. SH. K., rocket-launchers.
Q. Are all your Mujahideen in Jegdaleg?
A. No, Jegdaleg is our headquarters. We have Mujahideens in different parts of Saroobi Sub-Province and two guerrilla groups inside the Kabul City.
                       It was bombs like this that brought destruction to Jegdaleg —and to countless other areas in Afghanistan.
27 8S
Q. Can you tell us some interesting stories of your activities?
A. Yes, I t5an ell you the story of our fighting against Red Army troops and their puppets in April 1981. I was informed that Russian troops together with Armoured Unit 4 of puppet army had come to the nearby plains. I decided to go myself and investigate the situation. I and seven other Mujahideen climbed a mountain to have a look at the troops. We noticed that they had already begun their attack and 70 tanks with many trucks loaded with soldiers were moving to-
   wards our headquarters. The time was short and I could not contect other Mujahideen. Moreover, we were in an ideally safe and strategic position. So I decided to attack the invading troops. We had 2 rocket launchers and 4 Klashinkovs. I positioned the rocket launchers in a far distance from each other and appointed one Klashinkov for guarding each. Two other Mujahideen with Klashinkovs were positioned in the middle part. We suddenly fired at the advancing troops. We were able to destroy 12 tanks and killed a large number of soldiers. We
  Mujahideen guarding the ruins of their houses. Commander Anwar and his Mujahid brother live in their ravaged town and carry out guerilla attacks on Russian convoys along the nearby Kabul-Jalalabad highway
28
    also captured some arms which were left behnid by the retreating troops. We did not suffer any casualties. Our informers in Saroobi told us the defeated troops justified their failure by claiming that several thousand Mujahideen were involved in the counter attack! Whereas as I told you we were only 8 persons. This verse of the Holy Quran has proved true that: “Remember ye implored the assistance of your Lord, and He answered you: ‘I will assist you with a thousand of the angels, ranks on ranks.’” (Al-Quran XIII/9).
Q. Do any of your wrestling comrades participate with you in the fightings?
A. When I first came to Peshawar, I had a message from my fellow national team wrestlers that they were going to a tournament to Tehran and that they would defect to Mujahideen there. But the puppet government somehow learned about their plan and did not send them to the tournament. Later they were ordered to participate in the 1980 Moscow Olympics. Seven out of 9 members of the National Team ran away just one day before the flight for the Games and came to Peshawar. The remaining came later. Two of them are with me in Jegdaleg and some others are active in some other fronts. Few have gone abroad.
Q. What do you think about the role of sports in Jehad?
A. Sports have a direct impact on Jehad. A Mujahid must be a sportsman. Walking long distances and carrying heavy wea-ponery needs strong bodies. Moreover, sports help a guerrilla to withstand hardship and move fast in the guerrilla attacks. It will also enhance his self control and calmness.
Q. What do you see is the secret of Mujahideen’s success?
A. The main factor of Mujahideen’s success is their strong faith and determination. But to reach the final victory, the unity of all the Mujahideen foroes is essential.
Q. Have you suffered any casualties due to savage Russian attacks?
A. There is no house in Jegdaleg that has not been damaged as a result of the cruel Russian bombardments. The majority of the people have left the area and gone to Pakistan as refugees. The casualties of our Mujahideen have been small, but tens of innocent children, women and other villagers have been martyred. Moreover, Russians try to bum down all the crops by air bombardment and by putting them to fire when their troops come.
29
Q. What is you main problem?
A. We have shortage of arms and ammunition, but lack of antiaircraft guns is our main problem. We also face food shotage —because most of the villagers have left the area—and lack of medicines and medical care.
Q. Do you have any message for the readers of ‘Mirror of Jehad’?
A. I believe you have three categories of readers: (1) Afghans abroad, (2) Non-Afghan Muslims, and (3) Non-Muslim leaders. My message to Afghans who have not been able to participate in Jehad directly is to know that Jehad is not just the taking up of arms and fighting on the front—although this is the most important form of Jehad today for Afghanistan. They should know that they can participate in Jehad anywhere they
   are if they try their best to work in ousting the Russians from Afghanistan and the triumph of Islam there and in other parts of the world. The non-Afghan Muslims should also consider the Jehad in Afghanistan as their own and try to help it as best as they can.
   My message to the people of the world as a whole is that Afghans are fighting not only to defend Afghanistan or Islam but the whole humanity, because Russia is the enemy of humanity. Russian crimes in Afghanistan put a black stain on the human history. Russian invasion of Afghanistan has not only taken away peace and security from the region but has jeopardized the peace and security of the whole world. It is the duty of all the people to learn what goes on in Afghanistan and to make concerted efforts and action to stop it.
30
         PROCLAMATION BY THE ISLAMIC UNITY OF AFGHANISTAN MUJAHIDEEN IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMMEMORATION OF MARCH 21st AS “THE AFGHANISTAN DAY”
    Praise be to Allah, Lord of the universe, and peace be to His Messenger, the model and leader of Mujahideen.
    The Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen, which is formed by 7 Mujahideen groups to carry on Jehad in a united rank, is the sole representative of all the Mujahideen forces and all the Afghans who are against imperialism, against the presence of Russians in Afghanistan, and against establishment of an un-Islamic regime in that country. Diversity of positions, differences of aims and goals, and variety of viewpoints about the future of Afghanistan will disappear from the scene of Jehad with the formation of this Unity. Any views different from the viewpoints of the Unity, any positions against the stands of the Unity, and any attempts by recognized faces to introduce themselves as the self appointed representatives of our Grand Jehad will be null. Such views, positions, and faces will not have any place amid the Jehad of Afghan Muslim nation. They will only represent the nature and the position of individuals and groups located outside the margins of Jehad and away from the de-
 mands and aspirations of Mujahideen.
    It is a well-known fact that Afghanistan has always been a free independent Muslim nation. Reliance on God and dependence on faith are the characteristics which have never allowed the people of this land to admit the shackles of slavery and servitude in the free atmosphere of their territory. The personal and social characteristics of Afghans are shaped by Islam which negates domination of man over man and considers the Supremacy of God as an essential element of human life. Islam also wages unrelenting struggle against imperialism, slavery, oppression and aggression.
    Afghanistan, which lias always been the birth place of heroes, has never accepted anyone's chain of slavery in any period of its history. It has always rejected comfort and prosperity which brings about humiliation and disgrace and equals death. Yes, the Afghan nation has lived poor, but it has certainly lived with honor. Dignity, strong faith, and determination are the characteristics of each and every
31
                 A group of wounded Mujahideen. These men were luckty. They reached Pakistan, where they could he hospitalized for treatment of their wounds. Thousands of their brothers suffer and die because of lack of basic first-aid and medical care
Muslim Afghan. Throughout the history, the faithful Afghans have taught the aggressors and imperialists unforgettable lessons of resistance and heroism.
   Russians were able to swallow half of Europe in less than half a century and extended their bloody claws to different directions—east and west, north and south. They terrified all those who loved the life of this world: rich and poor, strong and weak. Encouraged by their gains, they finally invaded the homeland of Muslim Afghans without a careful study of their history. They had planned to conquer the
 country and destroy its Islamic identity. They never expected the resistance which was put up by the followers of Truth and disciples of the Quranic school—the resistance which humiliated them in their own eyes and in the views of world people. To safeguard their false prestige, to save themselves from sinking into the quagmire of disgrace, and to maintain a hollow horror and fear in the hearts of world people, Russians resorted to such •crimes and barbarism that disgusts human conscience—probably except for the conscience of the bloodthirsty communists. They looted and massacred. They renewed the
32
 dramas of Chengiz Khan and Hala-koo. They enjoyed killing women, children and old people. They made destruction of cities, villages and mosques their normal practice. In short, they applied the rule of Jungle and put a shameful stain on the human history.
    Afghans knew that liberty, self determination, security, honor, and dignity are values which require high costs. They were ready to pay their cost. They considered all the difficulties and sufferings as natural for the defense of their Islamic identity, independence, honor and dignity. Therefore, they presented all types of sacrfices and fought back the followers of Taghoot (Falsehood) and comrades of Satan with bravery and heroism.
    The Muslims of Afghanistan are determined to stop this evil outburst. They are determined to carry on their struggle against the enemy of humanity and human values even if it costs them their lives to the last person. They are the owner of such aims and principles which do not allow them silence and deathly life. Their dispositions, which have been shaped in the light of the lofty Islamic teachings, are not compatible with a life in slavery and under the claws of oppressors and tyrants. They prefer honorable death to life in disgrace.
    What is sorrowful and heart-rending is the indifference shown towards human suffering. No one pays any attention if hundreds of atrocities take place every day, if
 thousands of innocent people are taken to slaughter houses, and if the capital of hundreds of years of human work is abolished at the whim of a bunch of blood suckers and professional oppressors. This indicates the danger which threatens the world to destruction or at least to obliteration of human sentiments and affections. Every one seems so indulged in material pleasure as if peace and security prevailed all over the world and there was no suffering and pain. No one feels hurt and afflicted tinless he is directly exposed to atrocities and sufferings.
    Are not the indifferent spectators accomplices of criminals and confirmers of aggression and tyrany which threatens themselves as well? Does not the indifference towards barbarism, oppression, and savageness indicate similarity of disposition with the oppressor? Does it not mean that such deeds are deemed as normal and in accordance with the routine and practices of the spectators themselves? Does it not mean that the weaks have accepted death before it reaches them and do not have the will to resist and defend? Does it not mean that some people are so heedless and Intoxicated that they can't imagine the coming danger at the time of safety? Yes, the world is heedless: heedless of the fact that it is at the brink of destruction; heedless to think about genuine prosperity of this world and the Hereafter; heedless to recognize friends from foes, and heedless to find ways to coor-
33
dinate and harmonize his life with true natural laws—the absence of which will always cause adversity and abomination. This heedlessness is well-demonstrated in the world reaction to Russian aggression and crimes in Afghanistan.
   It is true that the world condemned Russian invasion and inhuman crimes and barbarism. The world people aired their sympathy with the oppressed and defenseless Afghans in the press and over broadcasting channels—and sent some help to refugees. But they did not take any measures to expel the Russians from Afghanistan and to stop their crimes. Sufficing to words when action is possible indicates a difference between the real intention and expressed words. In fact, it can provide encouragement to
the oppressor to continue his crimes and savagenesg,.
   The position of sympathizing spectators resembles the position of a gunman who watches the fight between a defenseless man and a rapacious animal from the top of a mountain. He hears the cries of the helpless man and sees the animal devouring him, but instead of taking any action, he tells the beast it is doing wrong and the helpless man that his resistance deserves appreciation! He thinks he has fulfilled his responsibility with taking such a '‘just” position.
   This example is not completely applicable in the case of Afghanistan—because we do not feel as helpless. But it illustrates the position of the world very well.
                    This picture shows a small section of one of the hundreds oft refugee camps located throughout Pakistan
                                              3£
    We expected—and do expect— human communities all over the world to take practical measures to crush down Russian wild giant and to save the humanity from the claws of this Red Cancer before it is too late. But, in the meantime, we announce to all the people the fact that by limiting themselves to verbal condemnation they cannot shirk their responsibility and cannot guarantee peace and security in the world. On the contrary, their silence and indifference smooths out the way for expansion of corruption and aggression all over the world and provides the blood thirtsy enemy with legal evidence for their own destruction.
    Besides world Indifference, there is something else to which the Mula hids and Muslim Afghan people object. It is attempts by some political businessmen to put up to auction the future of Afghanistan. While we are afflicted with thousands of pains and sufferings and while Afghanistan has been changed into a large human slaughter house, there are some people who think about
 selling its bones to another company! And they have the audacity to present their selfish attempts as a sympathy to and remedy for the tragic conditions of the oppressed Afghanistan. While we hope all the human-loving and liberty-loving groups and nations of the world support us in cutting the hands of Russian aggression and oppression —which is not only our enemy but the enemy of the whole world—we strongly demand them not to make Afghanistan an evidence for this Afghan proverb that: “the goat is in agony of death, and the butcher la worrying about its lard.” We demand them not to carve false and plastic guardians and leaders for Afghanistan and the unremitting and untiring Jehad of its heroic nation. We demand them to attribute the right to the rightfuls and recognize them as such. And finally we demand them to let the Afghans who are defending their religion, faith and liberty at the cost of their lives carry on their heroic struggle against the blood thirsty dragon of the age with peace of mind and without disturbance.
35
RUSSIAN POLITICAL MANOEUVRES & HYPOCRISIES TO DECEIVE THE WORLD ON AFGHANISTAN ISSUE*
BACKGROUND
   Sixty odd years back when the last Tsarist ruler of Russia was overthrown and another selfish and greedy group captured the realm of power, the advice of Peter the Great about reaching the warm waters of the Indian Ocean became the cornerstone of the political and imperialist policies of the new regime. From the very beginning, the new government strived with all its capabilities to implement this policy. Thus, territories and countries along the way were to be invaded and brought under Russian domina tion. Bukhara was the first victim of this colonial, anti-human policy. Russians occupied Bukhara by force while the Islamic world and free nations kept silent and watched with indifference. Learning a lesson from this lucid attitude, Russia took a step further and planned occupation of Afghanistan impudently and fearlessly. The first step was to open a way in Afghanistan through the Kabul-Moscow agreement of Feb. 28, 1921. It brought under its influence people from every walk of life by different types of deceits and intrigues. Specially during Zahir Shah’s reign when Daud was Prime Minister, Russians were able to prepare the ground for a total
 change in their benefit by utilizing the means and possibilities left open to them. Zahir sensed the danger. He didn’t want to lose his monarchy so soon. Therefore, he forced Daud to resign, and drew up a new Constitution.
    But is was too late. Russians had gotten control in all economic, political and military spheres. The cabinet was shuffled 5 times in less than 10 years. A strange crisis overtook Afghanistan under the name of liberty and democracy. This crisis was created by the Russians for their own benefit. Informed people knew well what a dreadful nightmare threatened Afghanistan. Russians, who had spread their influence over military and educational systems and had bought up a number of agents and utilized the opportunity offered by the long absence of Zahir Shah. Through the officers who were trained for this purpose in Russia, they overthrew the monarchy in a coup d’etat staged under the guidance of Daud who eventually came to power.
    Personal complexes of Daud — the mad and ambitious tyrant that he was — and the conspiracies ot Russian agents who had gathered around him gave the Russians the
♦ This article was written by the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and distributed among member nations when the U.N. General Assembly was debating the Afghanistan issue.
36
Yet another exajnple of Russians’ cruelty
opportunity to eliminate a number of talented Muslims inside and outside the army. Thus, the way was paved for their real agents. Russians used a double face sword. On the one hand, they wiped out the Islamic and national elements through Daud, and on the other, they made Daud himself hated by the people because of such deeds.
   Finally Daud realized it was his turn to be eliminated. Therefore, he tried to save himself by settling the account with his Russian comrades and his coup conspirators. But Russians did not give him the chance to do so. Once again they acted through their military advi-
sors and Russian trained agents. In a bloody coup d’etat of April 27, 1978 (Saur 7, 1357), Russians assassinated Daud and all members of his family and installed their old-time and trusted agent in power.
    In less than two months the people of Afghanistan realized the true nature of Taraki and recognized the real coup planners. They rose up and began their Holy Jihad against the puppet government. Because of the anti-human nature of communism, Taraki and his advisors did not hesitate to commit any type of crime and terror in countering this uprisal. They went so far in their massacres and geno-
37
 cide that they did not show mercy even to ordinary workers and school children. But all this barbarism which was unprecedented in the history of our nation did not have the smallest effect on the determination of our people to struggle for safeguarding their believes and liberty. Soon Russians learned that resisting the flood of anger and hatred of the Afghan nation was not an easy job. Realizing the situation and worried about the destruction and downfall of their agents and their imposed puppet government, Russians called Taraki to Moscow and signed an agreement with him on December 5, 1978. The text of the treaty was not made public, but future events as well as the curious remarks by Tass news agency and speeches by Kremlin rulers revealed that the treaty also stipulated that Russian troops could enter into Afghanistan in order to break down the heroic resistance of the Afghan people and to save Taraki regime from downfall.
    In the course of these plannings and preparations for occupation oV Afghanistan, Russians decided to play another game hoping to find an opportunity for suppressing the flames of anger and revenge of the Afghan people. They designed a plot for assassination of Hafizullah Amiri. The purpose of Russia in killing Amin was to find a scapegoat and blame him for all the murders and catastrophies. Moreover, Russians wanted to prepare the ground for the return of their old-time spy and genuine slave, namely Babrak. It should be noted that although
 Amin, the Traitor, and his criminal band did not hesitate to commit any kind of crime and treason, the truth of the matter was that they acted only within the limits of orders issued by their masters, i.e., the Russians. In fact, they were executioners who received their orders for imprisonment, torture and murders from Moscow.
    However, Russian plot to assas sinate Amin failed. The scene of Amin's murder which was supposed to take place in the presence of Po-sanov, the Russian Ambassador in Afghanistan, was reversed. Instead of Hafizullah Amin, Taraki himself fell into the trap and was killed a few nights later. Russians became extremely upset by the failure of their plot. From the very beginning it could be noticed that they would revenge the death of Taraki and make up for their indignity and humiliation. Sooner or later Amin's term and life would have been terminated. Amin realized this and tried his best to calm down Russia's anger by pretending to be its loyal and real servant. He tried to raise the slogan of “love of Russia” to the level of “love of motherland” during his term which lasted from Septem her 17, 1979 to December 26; 1979. But Brezhnev was not affected by Amin's servitude and ordered his assassination. Three days before Amin’s death, the Red Army with all its arms and ammunition began to enter Afghanistan. No one knew what was happening. On December 26, Amin was killed in an armed attack directed by General Papitan
38
The next day Babrak came to Kabul and was installed as Russia's new puppet.
THE RED ARMY IN AFGHANISTAN
  As mentioned, at the same time that Amin was killed and Babrak was installed, the Red Army flooded into Afghanistan and tried to take the control of the country in its hands. Karmal repeated to the Afghan nation by radio and newspapers whatever trickery and deception he had learned in Kremlin. He tried to make the people believe that only Amin was to be blamed for all the crimes, barbarism and cruelty committed in Afghanistan;
and that Russians did not have anything to do with it, and that they even felt sorry for it. But the freedom-loving Muslim nation of Afghanistan, who were familiar with Babrak’s dirty face and felt angry seeing Russian invading-troops in their land, disregarded Babrak’s allegations. Immediately they proclaimed Jihad and attacked the Red Army with whatever arms were Available — even sticks and stones. Russians had thought that they had destroyed Afghan people’s spirit of militancy and love of freedom by massacres and tortures during Ta-raki and Amin’s terms. They were surprised and terrified by the heroic uprising of the people and outragi-ously opened fire on defenceless
                      All the valleys in Afghanistan have become graveyards tor Russian soldiers and their tanks and armoured vehicles
39
 people from air and ground. Tens of thousands of innocent women, children and old persons who could not go to safer places fell in theii blood. Thousands of young men who fought Russian tanks and planes with empty hands were martyred. Hundreds of villages and cities were mercilessly bombarded and raised to ground. Russians had imagined they could force people into surrender and servitude by killing, burning, and terrorizing, but it proved wrong. Since servitude and imperialism is against the true nature of the genuine sons of Afghanistan, Russia with all barbarism and cruelty could not suffocate their cry for the truth and liberty. It could neither prepare the ground for the implementation of its imperialist design. More than 20 months have passed since the Red Army launched its direct massive attack on Afghanistan. Fighting, bloodshed, and bombardment ol cities and villages continue. But nothing has been able to cause slightest weakness in the faith and determination of the Afghan people. They carry on their Holy Jihad stronger than ever.
    Yes ! the Afghan Mujahid Muslim nation has only two alternatives: DEATH or FREEDOM.
 WORLD REACTION AND RUSSIA'S POLITICAL HYPOCRACY AND DECEPTION
    After the Russian attack and occupation of Czechoslovakia in
 1968, Russian invasion of Afghanistan and violation of the independence and national integrity of a free and non-aligned Muslim country which had lived free for centuries shook the world and added another page to the disgraceful history of the Russian imperialism. Muslim countries and the free world could not see any reason or motive for Russian violation of human norms and international agree-ments. They showed strong reaction and condemned Russian invasion of Afghanistan as a barbaric act which was against all principles of peace and international relations. About 20 days after the invasion (January 14, 1980) a special session of the U.N. General Assembly was held in which 104 countries condemned Russian aggression and requested immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan. But Brezhnev, who had taken a giant step in reaching the long-time dream of Russia, was not ready to give it up so soon. Therefore, he did not honor the decision of the United Nations. A month later the foreign ministers of Muslim countries held a special session in Islamabad. While condemning the Russian invasion and requesting immediate withdrawal of Russian troops, the conference appointed a commit-tee consisting of Foreign Ministers of Iran and Pakistan and the Secretary of the Islamic Conferences to hold talks with Kabul and Moscow and study the possibility of an inter-national conference under the auspices of the U.N. These proposals were rejected by Moscow and the
40
recognition of their puppet in Kabul was put forward as the precondi tion of any discussions. In mid. January 1980, the U.N. Commission for Human Rights issued a declaration in which withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan was
requested. But none of these voices of hatred and indignation were able to pierce the deaf ears of the Kremlin rulers.
                                                                   The Afghanistan issue was also discussed in an Islamic conference
  {
These two young men lost their legs while defending their faith and homeland. They are determined to continue the struggle even with one leg
41
 in London in April 1980. This conference also condemned Russian invasion and demanded withdrawal of its troops. A month later, on May 14 the puppet Kabul Government issued an announcement in which Pakistan and Iran were invited to hold bilateral discussions with that “Government”. It agreed to include the possibility of withdrawal of Russian troops in the talks. The text of this announcement was brought by Russian Ambassador from Moscow with the only exception that withdrawal of the troops was not mentioned in the draft. The reason for this proposal and other Russian diplomatic activities was the conference of the Foreign Ministers of Muslim countries which was held on May 17. 1980 in Islamabad. Russians wanted to interrupt and weaken the impact of the discussions and decisions of this conference. Just about the time when the conference was beginning (May 17), Gromyko went to Austria and discussed the Afghanistan issue with Edmond Musky and Lord Carrington — U.S. and British Foreign Ministers. On May 19, Brezhnev went on a trip to Poland and held a 5-hour meeting with Giscard d’Estaing. The only purpose of all the manoeuvres was to fool the world and give the impression that Russians were ready for a political solution of the Afghanistan.
    It seems that at the beginning the operators of the imperialist policies of Moscow were worried about the reaction of the West and the Muslim world. They wanted to
 gauge the degree of their decisiveness on Afghanistan issue through discussions and a conciliatory position. But once they found out that the firmness of Western and Muslim countries on Afghanistan is not more than the firmness of the cap of a soda-bottle, they intensified their obstinacy and increased their barbarism.
    The second conference of the Foreign Ministers of Muslim states reaffirmed its past resolution and demanded immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan. Pakistan rejected Kabul’s May 14 proposal and considered its acceptance as a recognition of the puppet regime.
    On June 4, 1980, the three-member committee consisting of Foreign Ministers of Iran and Pakistan and the General Secretary of Islamic Conferences met in Tehran to discuss the Afghanistan issue within the framework of the resolutions of Conferences of Foreign Ministers of Muslim states. In the statement issued at the end of the meetings, the General Secretary was assigned to contact Moscow, Kabul and leaders of Mujahideen groups. While the Tehran meetings were on, Gromyko rejected any effort in this matter as fruitless. Three days later, however, Brezhnev assured Indian Foreign Minister that Russian troops would be withdrawn from Afghanistan provided that U.S. and other concerned countries guaran tee security of that country.
42
     On June 18, the three-member committee met again this time in Geneva. Moscow, the Kabul regime and Mujahideen groups were invited to take part in the discussions. Mujahiden accepted the invitation but Moscow and its puppet in Kabul rejected it. The conference reaffirmed the decisions of the previous meeting. It was also felt that the committee was seeking some way to help Mujahideen, or at least to provide humanitarian assistance to the oppressed nation of Afghanistan. Lest such a possibility become reality and also because of the on coming conference of the seven industrialized countries, on June 22 Russians announced that they were withdrawing a portion of their troops from Afghanistan. This was an obvious manoeuvre to decrease the world hatred towards them and to divert the public opinion from the terror and anti-human conditions in Afghanistan. International news media, however, believed in the Russian lie and gave it a wide publicity. In a way there was some truth in the Russian claim, but not the way they wanted the world to believe it. The truth of the matter was that at the beginning of their attack on Afghanistan Russian troops that were sent to that country consisted mostly of soldiers from Central Asian "Republics”, i.e., Tajik, Uzbek and Turkistan. It was so because Russia hoped that Afghan people would show less resentment towards them for racial, linguistic, and religious similarities. But Russian plot worked against them. Once the Muslim soldiers rea-
 lized that they were not fighting against American and Chinese troops — as they were told — rather against their Muslim brothers who had waged Jihad for safeguarding their liberty, faith, and home' land, they showed sympathy and stopped fighting. The new development sacred Brezhnev and other Kremlin rulers. They recalled the Muslim soldiers lest they learn militancy from their Afghan brothers. Instead, they sent several times more genuine Russians as well as Cuban, East German and Czech soldiers to replace them. TSince then troons from Warsaw Pact and specially Cuban troons have plaved verv active role in the war in Afghanistan. The United Nations can investigate this matter bv sending representatives to see who is fighting in Afghanistan against whom ]
    Russia reached its goal of making the results of international conferences less effective by announcing a partial withdrawal of its troops in Afghanistan, whereas, in fact it sent more troops. This announcement was also meant for domestic consumption. Kremlin rulers were afraid of objections to their anti-human political military programmes (though criticism and ob jection is not allowed in communist systems). Therefore, they put forward the allegation that conditions in Afghanistan had returned to normal and they would withdraw a large number of their troops. It is interesting to note that at the time such a remark was made, Russian authorities warned Iran not to help
43
 Afghan Mujahideen — proving the Afghan expression that “the liar has a bad memory”. (And it is not certain what help Iran had provided to Mujahideen).
     On June 22, the same day that Russia announced partial withdrawal of its troops, the U.S. Congress discussed the Afghanistan issue in its official session and requested immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops. On June 25, 1980, American authorities presented an unofficial proposal to their Russian counterparts in which all the important points which Russia considered as precondition of withdrawal of its troops were accepted. The friendship of the future govern ment with Russia and the safety of pro-Russian elements were guaran teed. Russian troops were to be withdrawn during a transitional period under the supervision of troops from non-aligned U.N. members, and specially from Muslim countries. But Russia rejected this proposal with its usual obstinacy and shamelessness. Thus, it even did not accept what it had requested for itself time and again.
   The resolution of NATO foreign ministers on June 27 and the trip of Helmet Schmidt to Moscow and his meeting with Brezhnev on June 30 were other international efforts to make Russia withdraw its troops. But the Kremlin rulers responded with absurd and meaningless statements and ignored all the international pressure.
                                                                      In October 1980, Russian Am-
 bassador in Iran met with Rafsan-jani. Speaker of Iranian Islamic Council. In this meeting the Ambassador asserted that Afghans were brave people and no one could impose a foreign ideology on them. He also spoke of a peaceful, political solution to the Afghanistan problem. Political observers were amazed by such assertions. They felt that Russians were preparing for another intrigue. Such an hypotheses won more credibility when BBC spoke of basic changes in Afghanistan and disclosed that Rus sians were considering installing Zaliir Shah into power.
    It seems that the reason for such assertions and reports was that the Russian domestic political situation was very critical at this time. There was even a possibility of Brezhnev being removed from power. To correct the situation, Brezhnev called Babrak to Moscow on October 15, 1980. In their meetings and confer ences, as well as through radio and T V., they both tried to pretend that the situation was normal in Afghanistan and all the news about fight ings, killings, destructions and Rus-sian barbarism was made up by "imperialists”. Babrak praised Brezhnev for his help and statesmanship. In return, Brezhnev announced his firm support of Babrak and rejected all requests for the withdrawal of Russian troops. He considered the acceptance of Kabul's May 14 proposal as the only solution to the Afghanistan problem. Thus, once again he gave away the world demand and the rights of
45
                 An example of one of the many types of bombs that have been used by the Russians in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen hacking at the bomb for its powder contents to be reused against the enemy.
new turn in Russian position was the first anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan in which the world people expressed their strong indignation and hatred. Many anti-Russian demonstrations were held in different parts of the world, several Russian embassies were attacked and Russian flags set on fire.
   Another reason for the flexibility in Russian position might have been Sadat’s promise to provide arms to Afghan Mujahideen and Lord Carrington’s admiration of the countries that helped the Mujahideen in their fight for defence of
their liberty and homeland. Kremlin rulers, including Brezhnev — the mad man of power and tyranny — were alarmed at such remarks. Diplomatic activities in Moscow, Delhi and Kabul network were intensified, and Russian agents in other parts of the world were ordered to seek countering solutions.
   The 3rd factor for the acceptance of Pakistan proposal by the Kabul regime was the summit conference of the Muslim states which began on January 17 in Mecca and ended on January 28 in Taif, Saudi Arabia The purpose of Russia in
47
 ordering the change in Kabul’s policy was to weaken the spirit of the discussions and decisions of the conference and to make the participants not to take a strong position. Unfortunately Russia achieved its goal. Inspite of all the hopes and expectations from the conference, its outcome was very weak. It even avoided to condemn Russia for its invasion and innumerable crimes.
    In addition to the conference of the nead of states of Muslim countries, tnrougn tne new manoeuver Kussia wanted to influence the conference of tne non-aligned countries wmch began on February 9, 1981 by Mrs. Gandhi in Delhi. But this time inspite of the diplomatic efforts by Russia and its agents, Russia was not that successful. The resolution of the conference—issued on February 13—requested the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Afghanistan and asked Afghanistan to make conditions conducive in the country for the return of the refugees to their land without any fear and that people had the chance to determine their own form of government. But Shah Mohammad Dost —foreign minister of the Kabul puppet government rejected the resolution.
    Russians who were disappointed by the results of the conference, opened the 26th Congress of their Cotnmunist Party on February 23, 1981. In this Congress, once more Brezhnev stated clearly that Russian troops would remain in Afghanistan until the complete cessation
 of guerrilla attacks on that country. This was the true position of Russia and contradicted the face it and its agents had put before the international conference.
    In March 1981, Ronald Reagan, President of tne USA., stated uiat ne would consider providing arms to Aignan freedom-fighters if they asseo mm to do so. ims statement provided a good excuse to Russians to intensify their barbarism and to bring more troops into Afghanistan. As a matter of fact, Russians had suffered heavy casualties by now and the Afghan Army — which was in the front line—had almost disintegrated. Russians were forced to bring more troops for countering Mujahideen's strong resistance and heroic fighting. They did so and used Reagan's statement and Bab-rak's request for more Russian military assistance (expressed by Babrak at the order of Russians on May 10, 1981) for justification.
    At the end of July 1981, Brezhnev stated explicitly that his government would increase its troops in Afghanistan at the request of "Kabul regime”. This statement came after Eabrak’s sudden trip to Moscow in the second half of July. Political observers had speculated that his trip was related to Lord Carrington’s proposal for solving Afghanistan problem. Carrington made a trip to Moscow on July 5 to discuss his proposal which was supported and adapted by the European Common Market. Gromyko rejected the pro posal on the excuse that the “Kabul
48
 Government” was not included in the first round of the proposed international conference. Babrak, called by Brezhnev to Moscow, also re jected the proposal and instead re quested for more Russian troops.
    Russian diplomatic manoeuvres were restored and intensified just before the present session of the 'UN General Assembly. Javier Perez de Guellar — U.N. General Secretary’s special envoy’s—trip to Kabul and Islamabad was the beginning of the new manoeuvres. After his trip in mid-August he expressed hope for finding a political solution to the Afghanistan problem. Later it was announced that during his trip, foreign ministers of Afghanistan and Pakistan had agreed to hold indirect talks during their trips to the United Nations for participation in the General Assembly. On August 24, 1981, Nicolai Feryubtn—Russian deputy foreign minister — made a trip to Pakistan. A trip by such a high-level Russian diplomat was unprecedented in the past five vears In the meantime, the Kabul puppet, regime out forward a new proposal for solving the Afghanistan is<=u°. This proposal was the same as the old Mav 14. 1980 proposal with minor changes.
    President of Pakistan, however, considered it as indicating "considerable flexibility” in Kabul attitude. Moreover, Pakistan authorities did not mention anything about Afghanistan and the invasion of Russian troops of that country in their public speeches addressed to the
 Russian deputy foreign minister After his trip to Pakistan, Firyubin went to India to put the henna of the blood of innocent Afghan people on Indira Gandhi’s hands and to expand Russian diplomatic efforts through her. In the meantime, Shah Mohammad Dost, foreign minister of the puppet Kabul regime, made several trips to Arab and South Asian countries—including India.
   Russia’s main purpose of the new manoeuvres is to create an atmosphere of peace and reconciliation just before the meeting of the U.N. General Assembly. Russian hope that by such tricks they can make the world forget their rejection of U.N. resolutions or ignore the killing, robbing, destruction, bloodshed, barbarism and crimes they commit in Afghanistan. They also want to force Pakistan to soften its position and not put forward drafted resolutions such as the last year. The recent air and ground attacks by the puppet regime's troops on Pakistan border towns are obvious indication of the use of force. It is for Pakistan not to be intimidated by such pressures and for the world not to be deceived by such manoeuvres.
 BASELESS CLAIM & FOOLISH .JUSTIFICATION
   Russians,and on top Brezhnev, can win the first prize for shame lessness and importunity. From the very beginning they have claimed that their troops entered Afghanistan at the request of Kabul Govem-
49
 ment and in accordance with Item 51 of the U.N. Charter. The baselessness of such a claim is obvious to almost every one. Nonetheless, brief explanation is presented here to remove any doubt that might still exist:
  1-    Item 51 of the U.N. Charter applies only to legal governments. Taraki and Amin regimes were puppet governments installed by Russia lacking any kind of legitimacy. Not only did they not come to power through legal means, but the Afghan people rejected their rule and rose up against them.
  2-    Afghanistan was not — and is not — threatened or invaded by any country but Russia. How can Russians invoke item 51 ?
  3-    If by “Afghanistan Government” Russia means Taraki, he was removed from his position several months before the invasion and put to death. And if it means Amin's regime, it is illogical to argue that Amin asked Russian troops to come, kill him and replace him by Babrak. And if by “Afghanistan Government” Russia means Babrak. he was in Russia at the time of invasion and not installed to power yet.
    Several other reasons can be put forward to prove that Russian claim is unjustified and groundless. Item 51 of the U.N. Charter, as well as Item 103 of that Charter and Item 53 of the 1954 Vienna Convention all rule to the condemnation of Russian invasion.
    This was a summary of Russian deceptions, hypocracies, and political manoeuvres presented to the world and especially to the national representatives who have gathered at the center of human ideals and hopes (i.e., the United Nations). This is a reminder not to forget Russian invasion, bloodshed, oppression and barbarism, and not to forget Afghan people's misery, blood bath, homelessness and human rights. Hearken the call for justice and liberty by millions of orphans, widows and refugees who have lost whatever they had be cause of Russian barbarism and savageness.
    The oppressed Afghan nation sincerely hopes that the free na tions of the world would remember their millions of fellow human beings who are savagely attacked by air and ground every day just for their love of liberty and justice and their defence of their faith and homeland. The free nations should give thanks for the blessing of liberty, and they should fulfill the responsibility history has by chance nut upon their shoulders. From the top of the U.N. marble palace, the national representatives to the United Nations should watch in the mirror of their conscience and heart the scenes of massacres, bombardment, destruction and crimes committed by Russians in Afghanistan. It is up to them whether they hear our voice and pre sent it to the tribunal of history oi not. They should know that this is the voice of the young men from
50
their blood baths. This is the voice of thousands of orphans and disabled persons from the bottom of valleys and the hearts of deserts. This is the voice of old men and women from the midst of flames of blood and fire. This is the voice of tens of thousands of widows raised from their hearts. And this is the voice of millions of men and women driven out of their homes and their towns by the tyrant savage Russians.
   The Afghan oppressed Mujahid nation expects you — the representatives of the world and the guar
dians of truth, peace and liberty — to travel to the land of free people which has become a sea of blood and tears and to see Russian crimes and catastrophies with your own eyes. Come and see how the savage Red Army destroyed the historic places of Ghazni, how it flooded Herat with blood; how it looted Qandahar, Paktia and Ningarahar.
    Come to eyewitness the geno cide by the great claimant of peace and liberty — i.e., Brezhnev — and to record his shameful, anti-human crimes in the files of the United Nations.
51
            DO RUSSIANS KNOW ABOUT THE CRIMES OF THEIR GOVERNMENT IN AFGHANISTAN ?
   The following article has been writen by a Mujahid brother who spent many years in Russia as a student. He returned to Afghanistan after the Russian aggression on Afghanistan. He was offered a prestigious position by the puppet government; but soon as he found the chance, he left the job and joined Mujahideen.
    The world is shrinking. In few hours, the majority of world people learns about what happens in the farthest point of the earth. Even under such conditions, there still are governments who try to pull an iron curtain around their people and hide or distort the truth of events going on around them. Russia has been more active and vigorous in this regard than any other country. This is a well-known fact and we do not want to discuss it here.
    What we want to discuss in this article is how much do the common mass of the Russian people know about the activities of their government and Red Army troops in Afghanistan—in spite of the news blackout by their government—and how do they feel about them.
    I believe, we can in general divide the Russian people into three categories with regard to their level of awareness of the facts and their attitude towards them:
    1.     The first group consists of those who know the truth and are against the imperialistic and oppressive policies of their government. But this group is very small and cannot do much at the moment. In this group mostly intellectuals, scientists, and inquisitive persons from different walks of life are included. The group has gotten its awareness by listening to foreign radios because of their open-mindedness or curiosity. Few members of this group have gone abroad, because the Russian Government has put strong obstacles on the visit of its citizens to foreign countries. Only very trusted persons can get such a chance. Because of the extensive secret police activity, the group remains dispersed and those included in the group do not have any contact with each other—and in most cases they do not know each other. These people express their discontent by circulating political (anti-government and anti-communist) jokes. Recently K.G.B. has intensified its activi-
52
 tosxi 9riT .1
 ni 91B 2938131 -IlIBffl QX6 '{9 03 9 IB oriw
 03 liiOCfBi
 fonfi ion o.
 .36X3331 X9i -OJ 139193 lO "SoiliU 9XiXJp9X
 sbnsgi ■gnlszer t'JOJ I
                                                                      ol\ 9rfl toe 333iot Cioue teniegfs n$ve zai)
                                                                                                   .gi9>I.Bm-93{pi
ll^giaiaaoa quoxg bnooaz oriT .S os 9fll iwods word oriw saoril
                                                                                           I9VOS li9fll lO 39ll
                  nicgA .marfi to ovoxq ^            )wt  olni babivil
                  3X6 OriW 930rfT XB aril lo aiiaqmi
                               9§
Ion ob lucf nei ^oriT .maioilho limil xo aliup ni geillviios Jr
xiaril
When you sow wind, you reap whirl-wind ! I
ties even against such jokes and the joke-makers.
    2.     The second group consists of those who know about the activities of their government and approve of them. Again this group can be divided into two parts:
    a) Those who are the designers of the evil, oppressive and imperialistic policies of their government. They commit crimes mostly because of their complex and/or selfish interests. Few might do so out of their conviction and adherence to the destructive ideology of communism. The number of this group is also small, but it holds political, military, economic and cultural power and do as it wishes.
    b)  Those who are not themselves the designers of the evil imperialistic policies, but consider them in the interest of their country and support them because of their patriotism. This group is larger than the earlier two groups, but much smaller than the last group. The members of this group are under the influence of the propaganda of their government and have lost their faculty or rightful judgement.
    3.     The third group consists of those who neither know about the activities of their government nor show any reaction even if they come
 to know of something. The great majority of Russian masses are included in this group. They are mainly workers and farmers who are so much absorbed in their labour to make a living that they do not find time to think about other issues. They do not show any interest towards the “compulsive politics” of their government which require them to take part in propaganda meetings and window-dressing “elections” either. They feel alienated and know that they cannot influence the policies of their government. They accept the situation as given to them and do not think that they would be able to change it. They show reaction only when “the knife reaches their bone” and they feel that they cannot “take it any more.”
    Knowing the characteristics of the three groups mentioned above, it is easy to determine how much Russians know about the activities and crimes of their government in Afghanistan and how they feel about these. The designers of the evil, oppressive and imperialistic policies of Russia, who are a small group themselves, have been able to win some supporters by their propaganda—mostly among the bureaucracy. But the number of supporters is also very small. Another small group of Russians—mostly intellectuals, scientists and writers—are critical of the policies of their government in Afghanistan but do not dare express their criticism. They prefer to either keep quite or limit their anti-government activities in
54
  When dead bodies of soldiers like this one killed in action by the Mujahideen reach back their homes, the people in Russia know that something more heinous is going on pi the neighbouring Afghan lay.d
much less risky areas like demand of exit visas for separated lovers! f Reference to Sakharovs’ hunger strike). The great majority of Russian masses* however, are completely ignorant about the situation in Afghanistan. They know that Russian troops have gone to Afghanistan but do not know why and what they are doing there. Only the Muslim population of Central Asian occupied territories who still have not forgotten how the Russians usurped their coimtries feel sympathy for Afghans but are not in a position to show any reaction. Only after the Red
Army troops engaged directly in the war against Mujahideen and the dead bodies and injured persons were taken back to Russia that the Russian masses started taking interest in the case of Afghanistan and felt resentful towards the gov-ernmentj
   The number of dead and wounded troops have not been so great so far to cause an outburst. Nonthe. less, it has caused great concern and will certainly lead to disturbances and probably to open clashes with the authorities
55
      I
           REPORTS FROM THE BATTLE FRONTS OF FIGHTING BETWEEN THE TRUTH AND THE FALSEHOOD
    Unlike last winter, Russian savage troops undertook massive attacks against Mujahideen and innocent villagers this winter. Reports of massive attacks on Kandahar, Herat, Ghorband, the Northern Afghanistan as a wnole was receiveu. One of the major attacks was on Parwan, which took place early February. The details of this fight, ing is given here as an example of Russian barbarism and Mujahideen’s heroic resistance.
    Mujahideen learned about the attack two days before it was launched. Large troops had come from Kailagai, in the north, Kabul, and Bagram and had camped in the heights and plains surrounding villages in Parwan. Mujahideen decided to resist the attack—no matter how massive it might be. The purpose of the attack was to break down Mujahideen’s positions, capture them and their weapons and to take young villagers for military service. The battle was fought on many fronts. We give here details of one front.
    Commander Zabit Muhammad Rahim and his Mujahideen are positioned in the east of Charikar— Parwan’s Provincial Capital. They are headquartered in Bayan village, but have positions as close to the capital as 150 meters from the pro-
 vincial headquarters. Russian tactics were different in this attack than the 12 earlier ones. In the earlier attacks, the tank would come in the front followed by AJP.C. and infantry. But this time infantry was in the front. The first lines of mixed Russian and agent troops vere wearing civilian Afghan dresses. Probably they thougnt they could fool the Mujahideen and/or the villagers. The infantry was followed by mine searching units who used trained dogs for finding anti-tank mines. The tanks were next and then BMPs and other vehicles. For three days Mujahideen resisted in their front line. Then, because of the massiveness of the attack, they started withdrawing towards their headquarters. On the fifth day, they were surrounded in their headquarters. They solidified their ranks and launched a strong counter attack. They could push back the enemy to their starting point. During these week-long fightings 4 Mujahideen were martyred and they had killed 360 Russian and agent soldiers. Since Russians failed in their first attempt, they changed the tactics and after 6 days, started massive bombardment of Mujahideen positions and nearby villages. After heavy mortar and artillery bombardment, Russian troops tried to advance towards Mujahideen positions at night, but they
56
                           Communist crimes in Afghanistan are numerous. This is one example of their barbarism.
 were pushed back. Next morning, 12 helicopters and 4 jets joined the artillery in its indiscriminate bombardment. The air attack was intensified after Mujahideen shot down one helicopter. Finally after heroic resistance, the Mujahideen withdrew to their headquarters in Bayan village because of heavy bombardment and because of shortage of ammunition. They were surrounded by Russian and agent government troops. By the mercy of God and co-operation of some Muslim elements in the agent troops, the Mujahideen could break the siege and go to safer places. Russians occupied the headquarters and levelled the whole Bayan village to the ground. Altoge-
 ther, in Zabit Muhammad Rahim’s front 18 Mujahideen and 130 villagers were martyred. As mentioned, they killed 360 of the enemy troops, shot down one helicopter and captured many weapons.
   According to reliable reports, in all Parwan province during the two weeks fightings and bombardments about 400 Mujahideen and about 700 villagers were martyred. The Russian troops captured around 1,500 innocent youth and took them to Kabul for “military service.” Hundreds of houses were destroyed and at least two villages were levelled down to the ground. Mujahideen killed about 1\200 Russian
57
and agent troops and destroyed more than 160 tanks, APCs, trucks and other vehicles. Two helicopters were also shot down.
   Russian troops left Parwan after 5 days of “occupation." As soon as the Russian troops withdrew, the villagers and Mujahideen came back to their houses and positions. The villagers who had lost their homes wanted to go to Kabul for living. But the Russian troops prevented their entry to Kabul. Thev had to go either to Panjshair or walk long distances to Pakistan. In the first night that Mujahideen returned to their area, they looted 3 military posts established by the agent troops. Thev caotured 85 Klashinkovs and Klakovs. The next day, a strong Rus-
sian unit came and took away the remaining posts. Mujahideen are back in the positions they were before the massive barbaric Russian-agent armies.
                          REPORTS FROM SAMANGAN PROVINCE
   According to recent reports from the Samangan Province, in spite of Russians’ great efforts to secure the Kundoz-Mazar Sharif highway for the traffic, Mujahideen's activities along that highway continue. During the third week of February, Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Zaher undertook 4 operations. In the first operation Mujahideen captured 4 government trucks loaded with food supplies. One Mu-
 The havoc wrought on a village by Russian air and ground actiom eagainst the innocent civilian population of Afghanistan.
58
jahid—Muhammad Alam—was martyred. In the three other operations 5 government and Russian trucks carrying goods and food supplies for the invading Russian troops and one truck loaded with medicine were captured. Three Mujahideen—Noor Muhammad, Haji Noorullah and Amir Muhammad—were martyred in these operations. Two Russian and 3 agent troops were killed.
                                                     REPORTS FROM BALKH PROVINCE e
  Mujahideen activities in Mazar-e-Sharif also continue. On February 18 a group of Mujahideen under the command of Mamoor Abdullah launched a guerrilla attack on two vehicles taking th6 members of Khad (puppet secret police) from the Dehdadi Division to the Mazar-e-
                         This pictures hows part of a helicopter gunship cshot down by Mujahideen. At the push of button its rocket launcher fires 32 rockets.
if
ri
Sharif City. The attack took place near Maulana Jalaluddin School. Eight of the communists were killed and 25 were wounded. According to reliable reports, Qaderi the vice president of Khad in Balkh Province was seriously injured in the attack. The wounded persons were taken to Russia for treatment.
   Earlier, on February 12, a group of Mujahideen under the command of Zabihullah attacked a convoy of Russian tanks and vehicles near Hairatan. They destroyed 2 tanks and 9 trucks and killed 20 Russians. On February 17 another group of Mujahideen of Marmol under the command of Zabihullah ambushed a local airport in Shadian of Mazar-e-Sharif. They launched their attack when a helicopter bringing food supplies landed at the airport and the agent soldiers began taking the supplies out. The helicopter flew quickly and in the fighting that took place 12 soldiers were killed. Mujahideen returned to their headquarters unharmed.
Khas Kunar. Hundreds of Russian tanks and armoured cars came through the road and took positions near Khas Kunar. Then Russian helicopters landed Red Army troops on the mountains and hills behind the villages and Mujahideen post tions. Mujahideen resisted strongly. In the heavy fighting, they destroyed 5 tanks and killed more than 60 Russian soldiers and their Three Mujahideen and 5 women and children were martyred and mosque was destroyed.
   Russian troops faced more sistance when they attempted to go to Mazar valley. They attacked on the valley from two sides: Noor valley and the amin road. In the heavy 4 days fight. Mujahideen killed more than 80 Russians and 200 agent troops. They shot down one helicopter—from which they captured 2 D. Sh. K. machineguns. They also captured one communication set and some ammunition. Eleven Mujahideen were martyred.
                                  REPORTS FROM KUNAR
   According to the most recent reports, Russians launched a massive attack against Mujahideen positions in Kunar Province—east of Afghanistan—in mid-March. Kunar is a very strategic area connecting Lagh-man, Nangrahar, Kapisa and Bada-khshan Provinces to each other and to Pakistan. Since their invasion, Russians have made several major attacks on Kunar, but all the times they have been defeated.
   The last attack started from
   Another Red Army troop launched an attack on Daiwagal of Chawki sub-province — which is Mujahideen's strongest position. After 3 days of heavy fighting, the invading troops were forced back. Mujahideen shot down one helicopter and one jet and destroyed 13 tanks and armoured cars. More than 250 Russians and their agents were killed. Fifteen women and children and 8 Mujahideen were martyred. Many houses were destroyed in the heavy air and artillery bombardment. Russian troops retreated to Kabul after their shameful defeat.
60
 Mujahideen lying in wait for enemy
 convoys and troops