 Voi 4. No 19                             October 1, 1988
Northern province, key districts fall to Mujahideen
      IN a series of successive operations in the North over the past one and half months j the Mujahideen captured the provincial capital of Tafch&r | and liberated three districts;
| Kishmand Jurm in Badahkshan and Paghman in Kabul province from the presence of the enemy forces.
      The attack on Taluqaa, the provincial capital of Takhan took place on 15 August, days after the Russian forces reinforced ail the gcvernmet troops to defend the city against the Mujahideen attack. To pave the way for a complete take-over of the capital, the Mujahideen initially wiped out &U DRA security posts and fortifications protecting the capital and forced their way into the city.
      In the fighting over the capital which lasted for two days, the Mujahideen forces participating in the operation were composed of only urban and local units mostly from Jantiat. A large number of arms, food and vehicles were sieged from the enemy (see details on page 2).
      So far. all the enemy's repeated attacks to recapture the capital have been repulsed. To run the city after its liberation and to control law and order, the Mujahideen have appointed an administrative body consisted of people from the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) and some local commanders from Jamiat and
 other parties present in the area,
    Taluqaa city with an estimated population of ten thousand is the first provincial capital to fall into the hands of the Mujahideen in the North. It is situated on the Quoting-Faizabad high way and is considered one of the country‘s best agricultural regions.
    Two weeks after Taluqan's take-over the Mujahideen liberated jurm District taking prisoner 600 DRA soldiers, capturing d tanks, 350 light and heavy weapons in 9 hours of fighting.
    This was followed by the capture of Kishm district where three hundred and Sixty militiamen, KHAD and Sarandoy (para-military units) were either taken prisoner or killed and a small number managed to escape. In a massive drive into the district, ail 21 DRA security posts were initially captured by Mujahideen which finally led to fall of the district itself.
    Kishm is a strategically important district of Badakhshan province located on the main
 Kunduz-Badakhshan highway.
    For the first time since the war, Paghman, a major district of Kabul in the south, is the latest one being captured after 12 days of fighting by the jami at Mujahideen on 7th of September. Except for an
 isolated hill occupied by some DRA security units situated between Qarghah Military Division and Paghman, all the enemy posts within the district were wiped out and the remaining forces in the security posts were forced to retreat towards Qarghab Division and Kabul outposts.
    The area is presently under the control of the
 Mujahideen. □
 Regime signs economic pact with USSR
    THE prime Minister of the Kabul regime paid an official visit to the Soviet Union to apparently sign an agreement on trade and economic cooperation. He also met the Soviet leader on IS September.
    Hasan Shara. flew from Kabul first to the capital of Tadzhikistan from where, after holding a series of discussion with heads of three Central Asian Republics, he went to Moscow to meet the Soviet leader.
    Besides getting assurance for Soviets' continued support, the Soviet News Agecy Tass, said that the Minister signed an agreement with the Soviet Uion on economic, trade and technical cooperation between the regime and some Central Asian Republics. □

ATCHABeirc Vol 4, Ho 19, October 1,1988. Page 2
                                 News
   from the battlefields __________________)
                                        Badakhshan
                                          province
   THE Mujahideen from Jamiat captured Kishra garrison taking prisoner or killing 360 enemy soldiers, seizing 6 trucks, 5 mortars, 9 machine guns and two long-range mi ISeries. A large amount of ammunition and food ts uff were also captured from the enemy on August 3 f.
   The enemy forces based in the garrison were composed of Sarandoy (para-military units), KHAD and militiamen. The Mujahideen Initially wiped out all the 21 protecting posts around the district and then attacked the garrison. A small number of enemy soldiers were, however, able to escape.
   Besides Mujahideen of Klshm the three units of Teshkan, Gandum Qul and Darahim districts took part in the tfpemlon which lasted for two days. Twenty nine Mujahideen were killed and 25 others wounded in the fighting,
   Kishm is strategically a very important district of Badakhshan province located sjong the Kunduz-Badakhshan road.
    The whole operation was carried out under the command of Aryanpoor, a Jamiat Commander in Keshm who is also the head of the Nonh-Eas thorn zone of the Supervisory Council of the
North.
Takhar province
    The Mujahideen from Jams'at captured the capital of Takhar province seizing 2,000 light rifles, 2 tanks, 40 Russian jeeps, large amount of foodstuff and great quantity of military clothes on 15 August.
   in the fighting which lasted for two days the Mujahideen lost 25 men and 50 others were killed in addition to 45 civilians who were either killed or injured.
   The Mujahideen started their fighting at the first stage by destroying ail the BRA positions and protecting posts around the capital which gave them an easy entry into the capital.
   Having enough reinforcements the bases within the capital resisted longer but a three-flanked attack drove them out.
   The capital is under complete control of the Mujahideen who have command over the iaw and order.
Kabul province
    The Mujahideen from JamTat under the command of Ezatultah defeated an enemy offensive in Paghman destroying 10 tanks. 5 soldier posts, taking prisoner IS officers and BRA soldiers and seizing 3 sets of communication on 7th of September,
   The fighting continued upto the 19 th of September during which the Mujahideen captured the district headquarters and Its surrounding posts. The remaining troops were forced to retreat to outposts near Kabul.
   The Sovjet-DRA air forces retaliated and bombed ten villages which caused loss and casualties to the civilians. A Mujahid called Khanullah (brother of commander Ezat) was killed and 25 others injured in the fighitng.
    Paghman, one of Kabul’s major districts, is situated about i 7 kilometers west of the capital. Since the beginning of the war it was controlled by the DRA and Soviet forces and this is the first time that it has fallen into the hands of the Mujahideen.
    Except for a small hill located between Qargha Military Division and Paghman where a number of DRA forces are still stationed, all the areas within the district are controlled by the Mujahideen.
   •The Mujahideen from Jami at captured 4 security posts around Saroobi district killing 14 soldiers, seizing 19 rifles and taking prisoner 2 Communist officers on September S.
    Meanwhile, in another attack on DRA forces near Saroobi, the Mujahideen captured 4 posts the two of which belonged to Sarndoy (Para-military units).
    Later, the enemy in retaliation bombed and destroyed a newly-built irrigation canal in the area,
  Qandahar province
     In a long-range rocket fire on Qandahar Airport, the Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed two aircraft, 10 tanks and burned 5 vehicles including two military ambulances on 1 i September.
   One military hospital, the i
 i_____-
1- AFGHANIS Voll He 19, October U198i, Pesgsl                                                      
Airport termini and the                            UN envoy list s 30 Afghans                      
runway were seriously                                 to form '] National                          
damaged as a result or which                           governmen t of peace1                       
| there were m outward or        THE United Nations's            establishment of a National       
j inward flights for 4 days,     special envoy on Afghanistan    government of peaceu under        
t Meanwhile about. 40            announced on 15th of            the present regime could not      
j soldiers bringing with them    September that he has           fee impartial.                    
| 50 light weapons joined the    prepared a list of 33           Clarifying Pakistan               
Mujahideen and mass              impartial and respected         government s position             
I defeet ion in the ranks of     Afghans who could form a        regarding the proposalr the       
| militia and Sarandoy           national governmernt of peace   Pakistan Foreign Minister,        
\ (para-military units)          and reconstruction in           before his departure for New      
continues.                       Afghanistan,"                   York to head the Pakistan         
The rocket operation was         Mr. Diego Cordovez did          delegation to 43rd session of     
conducted by Naqibullah,         not name the people he had in   the United Nation General         
jam fax Commander In             mind and also declined to say   Assembly, said to journalists;    
J Qandahar.                      whether he had discussed the    "It still remains on the table    
j Kunduz province                list with the Resistance        for the parties to the Afghan     
1 The Mujahideen from            parties,                        issue to accept or reject.1       
j jamiat led by Commander        Mr, Codovez outlined his        He said that from                 
| Arif raided a DR A security    plan for such a government in   Pakistan's point of view the      
post near Kunduz city taking     July at the end of his visit to most important Item of the        
t prisoner 17 soldiers with      Pakistan and Afghanistan        General Assembly session s        
| their weapons and killing 4    saying It should hold a “Lays   agenda would be the               
[ others in a 4 hours operation  Jirga" by 1st March, 1989 two   cons;deration of the Afghan       
j on IS August,                  weeks after the Soviet troops   issue because he said " Peace     
j The next day two KHAD          have wlthdrwan from             has not yet returned to           
[ officers from Kunduz Airport   Afghanistan.                    Afghanistan where the             
\ defected to the Mujahideen     The Mujahideen Alliance         internal conflict continues to    
1 bringing with them 50 light    and intfem government did       rage unabated and millions of     
and heavy weapons loaded in a    not welcome this move as they   refugees in Pakistan and in       
Russian truck,                   argued that convening a Lays    Iran are unwilling to return      
Paktika province                 jirga (grand trlditional        home under the present            
.Mujahideen captured             assembly) for the               conditions," □                    
Khair Kot district and           Soviets esc                     alate air                         
Katawaz Army-Brigade based       violation or                    i Pakistan                        
in the same district of          DURING the past two             Pakistan border in P&rachinar     
Paktika province after 25        weeks, Soviet-DR A war planes   bombing some villages and         
days of siege on September       bombed four villages the two    areas near the Kurarn Agency,     
IS,                              of which were in Dir district   This was a series of air          
Ail KHAD, Militia and            where they killed or wounded    violations penetrating deep       
para-military units based In     11 persons, and two were in     into Pakistan territory           
the district numbering more      Kuram Agency which resulted     happened since the death of       
than 200 were either captured    in the death of 6 residents     President Zia in an air crash     
or killed and a large quantity   and the injuring of 6 others.   on August 17 and have             
of ammunition and food was       According to Pakistan           contined despite Pakistan's       
seized.                          authorities, about 16           warning that it would not         
Different units of the           aircrafts penetrated 40 km      hesitate to shoot down planes     
Mujahideen present in the        into Pakistan territory and     which violated its airspace.      
j area took part in the          dropped $ bombs on two          Earlier, the Pakistan             
j operation which was carried    villages which also damaged     Foreign Minister said that in     
j our under the command of       some houses in the area. The    the past three Soviet-DRA         
} Maw lav i Shamal from Jami at, victims were 4 children and a   planes were shot down fey         
| With the fall of the district  57-years old peasant.           Pakistan and it would do so in    
which is situated on the         The second incident took        the future if the air violations! 
j Mujahideen route, more areas   place on September 25 when 5    did not cease- D                  
j were liberated and             Soviet planes intruded the                                        
I Mujahideen routs are safer                                                                       
now. G                                                                                             
f                                                                                                  
* -----                                                                                            
AFGHAN®*® Voll Ho 19, October 1,1988, Page 4
  AFGHANews
  PO Box   T®1; 41381
  EDITORIAL
                       As Soviets withdraw, a long war enters short decisive phase
    THE Soviets' decision to withdraw from Afghanistan has drastically changed the military and political situation in the country.
 It has changed it from a protracted war to a short-term decisive engagement.
    Before the Soviets' decision to withdraw their forces the military strategy of the Mujahideen was to inflict losses on the enemy and make it an expensive var for them. Politically the Resistance wanted to expose the Soviets crimes committed against the Afghan people so that the world community could exert moral and political pressure on them to change their policy on Afghanistan.
    Those tactics produced results and the Soviets were forced to withdraw their forces. Let us hope they comply with their promises and complete the withdrawal of their troops not later than, February 15th.
    The withdraws! of the Soviet troops changed the situation to such an extent that a new strategy emerged which requires its own tactical approach.
    Now the aim is not just to inflict losses on the puppets hut to destroy the enemy and liberate the country. Militarily it means that the Resistance has left behind the defensive phase of the war and has entered a new phase- the offensive phase.
    This phase requires large-scale attacks to capture more territory, large-scale disruption of enemy communication lines and finally launching decisive attacks to eliminate it.
    The- fins! engagement which will be fought in Kabul needs to be a three-pronged action. The first step would be the cutting of the supply lines of the enemy. Cutting the supply lines to the capital will cause great food arid fuel shortages for the over-crowded capital of Afghanistan. It will effect the military capability of the regime and also cause discontent among the population who have their sympathies with the Resistance. This action is feasible and could be done very efficiently.
    The second step wilt be activities (military as well as subversive) inside the capital by the underground members of the Resistance. The Mujahideen have 1 good contacts inside the armed forces, militia, KHAR and civilian organisations of the puppet regime.
 Their action, if coordinated with other actions, could have a destructive effect on the morale of the enemy.
                                                                                  (See page 5)
 Mujahideen press team visits USA
    A team of 7 persons from the six Mujahideen parties paid a one month visit to the United States and met with a number of American press and the government officials.
    The programe which invited 7 persons, each one representing his own party's press, was sponsored by the United State Information Service (USIS), The trip was of a journalistic nature the pupose of which was to meet with the US press and media people to talk about journalism with particular stress on the improvement of news coverage of the Afghanistan situation.
    According to Abdul Basic, a member of the Jami 'at Islam! Press Department who also participated in the program, the team met senior editors of some famous American papers like the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington journalism Review,
 Associated Press,.etc and exchanged views on the subject.
    In their meeting with the press, the delegation also clarified some misconceptions circulating in parts of the American press regarding the future government of Mujahideen, the rights of women and the threat of a post-withdrawal civil war.
    The delegation also paid a visit to some press agencies in Washington, New York, Boston, Colorado and New Hampshire, Besides this, the team held talks with officials like Senator Gorden Humphry, Steve Ghitel men (of the Afghanistan Desk), and Republican and Democrat representatives who were briefed about the current situation in Afghanistan. □
AFGHANevs Voil No 19, October 1,1988, Page5
    Editorial....
      The final action will be a military one, action against the enemy centres. To reach the offensive phase, the Mujahideen require good ground, enough resources, trained manpower, proper organization and a suitable plan. The land around the cities is controlled by the Resistance,
      The Mujahideen have some weapons but may need more to perform the final attack. The Mujahideen have enough fighters but need trained personnel to do the fob effectively. Some fronts are in a better position than others.
      There is a need for creating an effective military-political organization which is suitable for the new situation. Of course a precise plan of action is an important requirement which the victory hinges around.
      To reach this stage, extensive preparations are needed. The problem is the short time between the defensive phase and the final phase which is envisaged to start after the completion of the Soviet withdrawal, Sn normal times it takes years to move from one phase to another.
      To be able to launch a large scale coordinated offensive the war must be escalated gradually. This gradual approach is necessary to gain experience in large-scale operations. If the enemy garrisons in the country-side are captured and provincial capitals are liberated, the process will give the Mujahideen experience to do the bigger jobs.
      It should be mentioned here that In Afghanistan the Resistance do not have a united military command. If there is any command it is of a local nature. Having this in mind it would be natural to expect some fronts, which can meet the aforementioned requirements, should take the lead. Geographical locations, organizational structure of fronts, level of military knowledge, number of troops, experience in large-scale operations and a strategic way of thinking has put special responsibilities on some parties and commanders.
      It does not mean the party taking the lead does not need support from ther other Mujahideen groups. The final outcome depends on the scale of cooperation between the Mujahideen.
      To reach that final stage an extensive political work within and outside Afghanistan is also necessary, inside the country, closer contacts, between the commander of different parts of Afghanistan is a vital element.
      The commanders should know each other better and find ways of helping each other. If they build confidence between themselves the future will foe very promising.
   Understanding between the commanders coming from every shade of life, race and region is also necessary to minimize the chances of future conflicts between them,
      The political parties in exile can play a positive role in the process and it is their responsibility to do so.
      Outside Afghanistan the Mujahideen should keep the world informed about the true situation and make clear the fact that the war against the puppets is the continuation of the liberation war because the puppet regime in Kabul is the product of the Soviet invasion.
      The war in Afghanistan has reached a crucial stage. Now the eyes are focused on the battlefields of Afghanistan. If the Mujahideen unite their ranks, and make good use of present opportunities, they will be victorious,
      A lot depends on the behavior of the Soviets. Can they see the fait of the puppets which they installed? Some say yes and ! others have doubts. Only time will tell what will be the Soviets' final position. D
‘No need to convene such conference’
    THE Pakistan Foreign Office has rejected the proposal made by Soviet Foreign Minister for convening a conference of the 5-member states of the United Nations Security Council together with Pakistan and the Kabul regime, to consider the implementation of the Geneva accords on Afghanistan.
    A Spokesman for the Pakistan Foreign Ministery on 2Sth September said that as the entire responsibility for the implementation of the Geneva accords was still being discharged bytheU.N Secretary General and by his personal representative on Afghanistan, there was no need for any conference to be held outside the framework agreed to by all the sides in the accords.
    This is the second proposal being rejected after the one made earlier by the Kabul regime in which it called Pakistan, the United States and the Soviet Union for a foreign ministers meeting to discuss the same subject as proposed by the Soviets.
    Meanwhile, speaking in the United Nations General Assembly session, the Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahifczada Yaqoob Khan, raised the issue of Soviets and Kabul regime s continued violations of Geneva accords by bombing Pakistan territory.
    Yaqoob Khan said that armed incursions have been accompanied by wide-spread acts of terrorism. About 387 air and ground violations, causing 40 deaths and injuries to 114 persons, have been registered since the coming into effect of the Geneva Accords, □
  L
n
                                             AJ&HAHeire Vol4, Ko 19, October 1,1986, Page 6 j
  who ‘s who in the
Commander Aryanpoor
 | GHULAM MOHAMMAD, ( j ksswe m AryauDoor, was I bora in 1946 is Keshas I district of Bad&fehsfe&ft j province. His father, Abdul J Karim, was a local merchant j Hs picked up his primary | and secondary education Irons j 1953 till J96? In Keshm j district and was admitted in { the Teacher Institution in j Kabul (1965-1970).                j
        From 1971 upto 1976 he | taught as a teacher in the Keshas High School. At the j end of i 976, he was arrested j by the then goverfimem ami { imprisoned on charges of j political activities against the goverameaet m well as j being an active member of the j Muslim Yoth Movement/ said j ; Sul tea Mohammad Awraag, j : Aryanpoor'$ representative In Peshawar.
       In 197$ he was transferee! to Puli Charkhl Prison in Kabul. As soon as he was released from the prison, he came back to Keshm where
 he ieined the first Resistance group
 'He worked extensively day and night to mobilise people especially youth and students against the Communist government by way of ideological activities and holding frequent demonstrations, and that was the main reason for his irnpr I son men i ‘, remembered Awrang,
   In S9$S, Aryanpoor went to Pakistan and in the spring of the same year he returned home and was subsquently appointed as the commander of Keshm district.
   To organize the Mujahideen front and control im md order he established an administrative body by setting up committees for military, finance, health, refugee mid judicial affairs, He consulted on all affairs with the commanders, scholars md council.
  He payed great attention to
  education and established 4! schools out of which 6 primary schools were for girls. The total number of students present are 2,560 with an increasing number of anual admissions. Besides this he has set up a number of Madrassas (religious school), Mosques,, constructed many roads and irrigation canals in different areas.
  Aryanpoor is an active member of the Excecutive Committee of the Supervisory Council of the North (SON). To help the Mujhahideen, he assigned some of the Mujahideens’ mobile units to take part in operations on the enemy bases in Andarab, Ftrfchar, Naftrin districts la | 19S6. He played an important j role in 1987 in capturing DRA garrIsons in Farkhar and Keran-u-Meaian, and the latest one the liberation of Keshm district in September 15f 198$,
    Aryanpoor is married and has three daughters and two sons, He lost a 12-year-old son and his mother in a Russian bombardment in Keshm district.
 From the diary of Jehad_______Part-31
         | People rebuild homes on ruins of war torn valley
     WBEH Ccd&mande-r Masood visited Rukha. m ‘Child spies sent by the regime. ’Tore shown to him. One of them wm about 12 years old and the other 3 years.
     They wore from Kabul, sent to collect j information about the [ Mujahideen. KHAD, the | secret police of the I regime had promised to | buy bicycles for the two j children.
j Use of children to spy
I -   ‘
| on the people is a common f j practice of KHAB.       j
[ Because Islam does not \ J permit the punishing of f ! people under the age of j j pubity, these children are [ [ delivered to their families I [ after getting an assurance j that they will not. be sent I back.
| Some whn do not have j any relatives are being j
| sent to Peshawar to stay ini I the Muiahidfeens1       !
f orphanage where they    j
j can study.              f
                                    Eld occasion
   Hid prayers were offered in the big mosque i in Rukha. This was the j first Eid gathering after five years. It was happy moment to see that the 1 forces of Communism vho [ had came to destroy the faith were defeated. This victory vhich came after severed years of suffering was fully appreciated by the people.
   It TOsan
AESiAKsw* Volt Ns 19, 0§tsfe®f 1,1988, Us®©?
r
j adult-dominated occasion,
| Absence oI children from the i scene was a sad thing, As the refugees win return they will bring their children with j them and hopefully the next j Bid will not be childless, j   Refugees are returning
j to the valley. They are | internal refugees living in the I cities of liberated areas. They | are willing to restart their | life In the place where they | were born and their ancestors were buried, j   The Mujahideen have not
| asked the people to return to | the valley but they are not I preventing them from ! returning either.
|
| Returning people
j People come to see their relatives, assess the poseibiity of rebuilding their ! houses or fust to stay, Tens of 1 buses, cars and trucks were j bringing people and their ! belongings and were taking [ back those who had decided to 1 go.
|   There was no lack of
I interest in returning but rebuilding their houses and mosques needed money and energy which a lot of them | could not afford.
|   In each village some people
\ were seen repairing their j houses and making them 1 ready for the return oi their ! famines,
|   Temporarily, the returning
i people are fed by the Mujhirfeen. Shops are feeing [ opened and the Muiahijdeen | were planning to open ! schools, rebuild mosques and
Iheip the willing people to rebuild their houses.
     Building the mosques is ; the most important step to j re-introduciag life in the | villages. A mosque is a place | of worship, a meeting hall, a guest house and a school. The mosque is usually located at j the center or the vii I age and I the people of the village visit I it five times a day. j The Imam who leads prayers is a person who has knowledge of Islam and people
seek guidance from him. I Therefore building a mosque means giving life to the community.
   While the returning refugees were welcomed the returning Mujahideen" were resented.
   When the war was prolonged some Mujahideen left the valley and started living as refugees in Pakistan and Iran. After the liberation of the valley a large number of them returned. The Mujahideen who had stayed to fight resented their return and called them “seasonal fighters'.
   This was not limited to individuals. The Jami at organization in the valley also differentiated between the two types of fighters and counts very much on those who stayed behind,
   After the liberation of the valley different committees were transferred to the lower part of the valley where they were functioning before the four-year occupation. A new hospital was opened in Rukha, Several Afghan doctors and nurses are working in the hospital.
   The surgeon of the hospital is an army officer who defected to the Mujahideen sometime ago. While working with the regime he carried out more than 209 amputation operations. The hospital is called B the central sene hospital/ Patients from the valley and North of Kabul will be treated there. In addition to the main hospital, several clinics will be functioning in different parts of the valley. They have in mind to train paramedics and nurses in the hospital as well.
   Mawlavi Wazir
     I was delighted to meet a famous religious scholar of the valley who had just been released from fail,
   Mawlavi W&sir, 85, had been teaching in the big mosque of Rukhafor over 59 years, He was leading the
 weekly friday and yearly Bid prayers.
   He is an honest man with a strong personality. He has always been struggling tor the supremacy of Islam and fighting against ail evil,
 Because of this he was in conflict with the past governments including the government of Zahir Shah who was not fulfilling its religious responsibilities.
 After the Communist coup of 1979 Mawlavl openly opposed the Communist regime and was imprisoned by the local authorities.
   On hearing the news several hundred people of Rukha surrounded the prison and demanded his release. He was released.
   He strongly supported the armed struggle against the Communist regime. He became a refugee in Pakistan but after a few months returned to the valley.
   While visiting Qundus he was put in Ml, Despite his old age he was kept there for * years. In prison his captors tried to force him to say bad things against Commander Masood but he refused.
   The people of the valley were nappy to see him back. They were helping him to rebuild his house. He would love to spend the rest of his life in his home. He is a good speaker who can easily bring tears to eyes of his audiences. He is a poet who speaks in praise of jehad and condemnation o! the Soviet aggressors.
   When interrogated in the notorious Puli Charkhi jail, the interrogator, who was a young Communist, accused the old man of acting against the revolution and the interest of the people, Mawlavi told the young man he has not seen any good thing from his revolution, “If you make a simple machine 1 will be ready to sweep that factory j with my beard. What you have brought is destruction/"
 M&wlavi said. Q
                              Pufciisbed fortoightly by Tsi»,  ill                            
Vol 4, No 20 October 15,1988                                                                  
Jami'at le                                                     ipletes a                      
successful                                           :ader con lorth-East                     
1                                                   tour of I\ commanders including Sayyed    
THE Jamest leader               Prof. Rabbani and the          Najmuddin, the commander of    
returned from a                 delegation accompanying him    Jurm, Baharak and Reran        
five-^eelc tour to the          were welcomed by commander     Muajan,                        
Northern parts of               Ahmad Shah Masood, the head    Then Prof, Rabbani went        
Afghanistan to assume his       of the SCN; Commander          to Panjshir and was warmly     
duties as the current           A cyan poor, the head of the   welcomed by the Mujahideen     
spokesman of the                Northeastern zone of the SCN;  and local population. He       
Mujahideen Alliance.            and some other commanders      ; visited various Mujahideen   
During Ws trip, Prof.           belonging to the SCN at Pas    centers from Paryan to         
Rabbani met Jami'at             Keran of Badafchshan, The      Shutul. In each center he was  
commanders, talked to           ceremonial guard was           received with special          
common men, paid visits to      presented and Commander        ceremonies.                    
training centres of the         Aryanpoor delivered a          Th© road near each center      
Supervisory Council of the      welcoming speech.              was decorated with special     
North (SCN) and made several    Prof. Rabbani met              gates, green flags, postboards 
important organizational        Commander Masood after nine    containing revolutionary       
decisions. He and his           years. Masood was so           slogans and pictures of Prof.  
entourage were warmly           impressed by meeting his       Rabbani. in each center the    
welcomed by the Mujahideen      beloved leader that tears came ceremonial guard was           
and the local people, They      to his eyes. He expressed his  presented, the elders of the   
were deeply impressed by the    surprise at seeing Prof,       area were standing in lines    
decipline, courage and          Rabbant s white beard.         and the children sang Islamic  
! organizational achievement of In Reran, Prof. Rabbani        and revolutionary songs.       
| the Mujahideen in the North.  met with some local            Prof. Rabbani's trip           
                                                               proved the weakness of the     
                     UN survey: ; liberated                    Russians and their puppets ,   
                     zones of A fghanistan                     He went as close as 20         
A 4-member team of the          appointed a 6-member team      minutes drive to the Russian   
United Nations has gone into    (one from each party of the    military posts. He went to     
Afghanistan to discuss the      Alliance) to accompany the     Shutul area which is five      
problem of reconstruction of    team and provide security for  Kilometers to Gulbaftar where  
Afghanistan with the            them. The UN warn will         the Soviets have a base, He    
commanders.                     submit a copy of its report to stayed more than one month     
The team will visit             the transitional government    inside Afghanistan,            
Badafchshan, Takhar, Balkh,     set up by the Mujahideen.      The enemy could do             
Kunduz. Bamyan and Ghazni       After signing of the           nothing, however, except once  
provinces and wifi report its   Geneva accords UN Secretary    bombing the area in which he   
findings to Prince Sadruddin    General appointed Prince       stayed, from high altitude.    
Agha Khan, Coordinator for      Sadruddin Agha Khan as a UN    In Panjshir Prof. Rabbani      
UN Humanitarian Economic        Coordinator for Humanitar ian  also met prominent             
Assistance to Afghanistan.      Economic Assistance to         commanders from Kapisa,        
The transitional                Afghanistan. Unlike the        Parwan and North of Kabul.     
government of the Mujahideen    UN-sponsored political         They included Soofi Rasul,     
has approved the mission and                  Turn to page (3) Anwar Khan, Qari Mohjfa,       
                                                               Shafaq and Shaheen. Prof.      
                                                                             Turn to page (3) 
LJ.

AXGHANews Vott Mo 20. Oetotaw 15,1966. Ps«e2
       News
from the battlefields
LlJlW ■ fl4*JCUlfflWftt|T?H iBIfflWIBWMMWBWBPWWIMIIWIlWiraWiBIWWIiWaiH
present in the area.
     As(iiar Is learned close to the border with Pakistan.
In 1979 the garrison in Asm&r joined the Mujahideen tout it was re*established. The Mujahideen have been fighting against the garrison since then..
    The fall of Asmar paves the way for attacks on the provincial headquarters of Kunar,
    The Mujahideen casualties were reported 4 dead and h wounded.
   Kabul province
      THE Mujahideen from jami'at carried out a large-scale operation, from ] October the first to the eigth* j on the DRA bases in Saroobi | District and security posts i along the Kabul -Jalalabad j Highway capturing eight j posts, killing HO soldiers,
 | wounding 200 and taking prisoner 15 others in addition to seizing eight heavy machine guns, $5 Kaiashlnkov rifles, four j communication sets and | destroying nine tanks and | APCs,
 | At the first stage the Mujahideen attacked and : captured a DRA post in Spina Talma (East of Saroobi along the highway) from where they directed their operation on j security posts all along the j Kabul-Jalalabad Highway,
 | Eight posts located j between SaroeM district and the highway in an area of 25 kilometers were captured within ten minutes which led to the complete control of the highway by the Mujahideen.
     The following day the Mujahideen attacked Dsrgo DRA base and repulsed three enemy's successive offensives to recapture it. Although the enemy Jet fighters bombed the Mujahideen's positions f could not prevent their advance.
     The Mujahideen blocked I the road for one week. On [ October S the Mujahideen
   forces withdrew from the highway but fighting is still continuing in some parts of the district.
      In all the mentioned operations which were conducted under the command of Mohammad Anwar, the Mujahideen casualties were reported 6 dead including 4 civilians and 15 wounded.
      As a result of frequent air raids U cattle were killed and 2 Mujahideen heavy weapons were destroyed,
      •The Mujahideen from Jamrat in Shakaraara District ambushed a DRA supply ! convoy killing some soldiers and capturing a truck-load of foodstuff.
      The convoy was attacked when it was passing through Kabul-Farwan highway.
    Kunar province
       In a joint operation on 29th September, the Mujahideen captured Asmar Gar risen seizing 6 tanks, i 6 APCs, i 2 mortars, 50 heavy machine guns, 000 Kaiashlnkov rifles and taking prisoner 250 soldiers and 19 j officers.
  j The garrison in Asmar was captured after a long [ seige. The final operation on it the garrison which was protected by 30 security posts encircling the main base lasted for a whole day 1 involving different units of j the Mujahideen parties
   ®The Mujahideen on 9th of September attacked DRA security posts in Bara-e-Patch District killing 2& militias, taking prisoner H soldiers and seizing 3 heavy and 100 light rifles.
   The posts were located on a hill about one kilometer from the provincial capital. Among them was a strong security post which was under Mujahideen seige for 15 days. The post surrendered after facing supply shortages,
                                                                           Kunduz province
   The Mujahideen from Jam! at attacked a militia base in Aiiahad seizing two APCs, 4 heavy machine guns, 40 light weapons and 4 trucks loaded with foodstuff and ammunition on September i 3, The operation which was carried out by the local Mujahideen from jami at lasted for two hours during the day. The Mujahideen lost 4 men and ? others were Injured.
                                                                            Ssimsngan province
   The Mujahideen from jamiat attacked a DRA post In Chomni area taking prisoner some soldiers and seizing 15 Kaiashtnkov rifles, one rocket launcher and 3 heavy machine guns.
                                                                           The attack was carried out under the command of Ahmad
                                                                                   Turn to pag (3)
I Battlefield News
i
] From Page (2)
t
I
| Khan, Jamiat local I commander,
AISKMots 7oH, No 20, (tetofesr 15, i9S9, Page 3
                     jamiat leader completes North-East tour
                                                               From page (1)
   Logar province
      The Mujahideen from jams at raided 3 BRA posts in Pad fchwafe &r ea tak i m j prisoner 4 soldiers, seising S I Kalashlnkov rifles and | destroying 3 tanks on 13th of j September,
 j On the same day the j Mujahideen attacked units of I the 212 ORA Battalion and destroyed 5 vehicles carrying supplies to the enemy base,
 t
   Qaadatiar province
      The Mujahideen led by Commander Mohammad Eva?, attacked Silo building , near | Qandah&f city taking prisoner j 33 soldiers, seizing three j APCs, two heavy machine guns and five Howitzers on 13th of Septeottoer. t The operation which | continued tor sis hours also resulted is the burning of two arms dumps and the destruction of three BM~ 12 rocket lauchers.
     The following day the enemy retaliated fey bombing the Mujahideen bases in Mirwats Mina killing S Mujahideen and injuring three others, 0
  Ul sends survey |           team
 I           From Page  {1)
 I oroeess La which the Resistance was ignored,
 | Prince Sadruddm has shown [ an interest to consult the Resistance oa his plans, t The delegation sent into Afghanistan is part of that effort, Since the Resistance controls major parts of Afghanistan, UN could not have carried out its mission without involvement of the
  Mu fab id eea, Q ----  ——„----■ -   
 Rate team appointed Soofi Rasul as the head of Jami'at Islam! Mujahideen in North of Kabul and instructed that they should work within the framework of the SCN,
    Prof. Rabfeani discussed the military and political strategy for the future and gave special instructions for the security of the cities when they are liberated by the Mujahideen,
    it is also interesting to note that the journey between Basht-e-Rewat and Shutul in PanjsMr was in a jeep. Two captured APCs and a truck carrying security guards were moving ahead of the jeep Seeing the destruction of houses and villages in Panjshfr was saddening. But it was compensated for fey seeing the countless Russian tanks, APCs and other vehicles destroyed by Mujahideen.
    From Panjshir, Prof. Rafebani went to Worsaj of T&khar province. He was welcomed fey Eng, Sayyed Ahmad Roy an, head of Mujahideen in lakhar, Abdul Hay Haajoo, head of Mujahideen In Baghlam and Qari Rahmatuflah, head of Mujahideen in Kundug, Moreover, Arif Khan, Jami’at s general commander in Kundo? and tens of other commanders from BaghSan. Kuftduz, Badakhshan and Tafchar came to Worsaj and Farkhar to meet Prof,
 Rabfeani.
    A large delegation of people s representatives from BaghIan and Kishm of Badakhshan also arrived to meet their leader.
     In Farkhar people were standing in lines for mere than one kilometer out of the town. Some members of Prof,
! RabbaaFs entourage made a trip to Taluqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, St was impressive to see the first provincial capital controlled by the Mujahideen, Life was normal. Security prevailed-Prof. Sab ban! visited the training centre of the SCN.
  He delivered a very important speech there at a special meeting of the Supervisory Council. He also addressed the students of the training centre. He had also made numerous speeches in various gatherings of Mujahideen and local population in Panjshir and Tafchar.
     The order and discipline observed among the SCN Mujahideen is exceptional among the Mujahideen and j unprecedented in the. history [ of Afghanistan, This was I what impressed Prof.
  Rate ban i the most and the members of the delegation accompanying him.
     The SCN Mujahideen are also very lively and knowtedgabie about Islam. Prof, Rafeteani s trip to Afghanistan took place at a crucial moment of Jehad when the Russians are retreating and the Mujahideen are preparing themselves to take charge of cities and finally the whole country.
     Most of the trip was on horse back or walking going up and down high mountains. On the way back, snow had covered the two high passes and it was an extremely harsh journey,      Prof-
  Rabb&ci was moving faster than some, younger members of Ms delegation, however, and never lost the smile on his face. D
                                          AFGHAWews Voi 4, So 30. October i3, im Page 4
    AFGHANews
                                PO Box 264,P$shawar-Psleist6fi Tsti 41391
 EDITORIAL
SOVIET UNION CRITICIZES UN MONITORS IN AFGHANISTAN
                          UN trains Afghans in mine-clearing techniques
     UN experts haw reached Peshawar to talk with the refugees and political parties about mine clearing operations in Afghanistan. The team which is composed of experts coming from different countries will provide a report to Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan.. Coordinator for UN Humanitarian and Economic assistance Program relating to Afghanistan.
     Mints planted by the Soviets have posed a serious threat to the civilian population and are a main hurdle on the way to resumption of life in the country.
     According to some estimates the number of anti-personnel mines planted by the Soviets and the Communist regime in Kabul range from 10 to 30 millions,
     The UN is aware of the problem and is trying to find a way to deal with it. Training of refugees in mine clearing techniques is a possible way to tackle the problem,
     Mine clearing operations is a complicated job which requires information about minefields, proper equipment and trained personnel. Since large areas are mined, the operation must be a long-term endeavour,
     The first responsibility on any mine-clearing operation falls on the shoulder of the Soviets who planted the mines. They must provide maps of the minefields, provide samples of the mines they have used, give equipment and funds for the operation and give the exact number of mines the Red Army has planted in Afghanistan
     So far the Soviets have not addressed the issue in a serious way and their explanation that they have cleared major mine fields and have given maps of the minefields to the Communist regime in Kabul is contradicting the facts on the ground, The Soviets have not cleared any minefields from the areas where they have withdrawn their troops.
     Giving maps to the Communist regime if? it is true) does not solve the problem because the regime does not have any intention of clearing mines.
     The problem of training the refugees must he dealt with more seriously. One can inform the public about the hazards of mines and give them instruction in what to do when they see mines. This will minimize the casualties but wilt not solve the problem.
     The major issue is mine clearing. Mine clearing is a serious business which will be done by couragous people who
                                                                                 Turn to page (5)
    THE Soviet Union on 29th of September criticises the United Nations observers in Afghanistan of failing to investigate what it called ‘'Pakistan’s violation of Geneva
 accords”
    A few hours after the United Nations Peace-keeping forces received the Nobel Peace Prize the Spokesman for Soviet Foreign Ministery accused the 25-member team of UN observers monitoring the Soviet withdrawal in Afghanistan of "not doing its job properly,"
    On hearing this the UN special envoy on Afghanistan and incharge of the monitoring team, Diego Cordovez, was puzzled at the Soviet, criticizm.
    It is believed that the Russians in order to cover their c&ntinous violation of the Geneva accords by frequent bombing of Pakistan territories and acts of terrorism by the Kabul regime have found no way of justifying their blatant violation but only to discredit and blame the United Nations observers.
    The UNGOMAP (United Nations Good Office Mission to Afghanistan and Pakistan) which consisted of 50 members-, 25 in Afghanistan and the other 25 in Pakistan, were assigned by the United Nations under the Geneva accords to monitor the complaints of the two parties about the accord violations.
    They, however*, are not peace-keeping foree but father observer teams, D
------------------- ATGHANew VoH. No 20, October 15.1968, Page 5
 I Editorial...                                       j
 i________^.........................................  !
                                                                                                From page (4)
 have been trained properly. One can not expect that women and children will he the right people for clearing minefields.
    The people who meet the qualifications of mine clearing teams come from the Mujahideen. These people must be chosen by parties, because only the parties can make sure that the trained people go to the designated areas for mine clearing missions.
    Since mine-clearing operation will be carried out in the Mujahideen-controlied areas, cooperation of the Mujahideen commanders is important. If the people chosen for the mine-clearing training is chosen with the consultation of the commanders the program will be more- successful.
 Of course, the importances! proper equipment and sniffer dogs should be emphasized.
    Finally the involvement of UN experts in supervising mine-cleaning operations inside the country will he necessary to make sure that the job is done.
    The UN must make tough decisions. To he successful in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and repatriation of refugees it must work with the Mujahideen. Any mass training to inform the public about the hazards of mines will not solve the problem unless proper people are chosen to be trained in mine clearing operations, □
Peshawar University hosts war exhibition
   THE University of Peshs.wr on September SO field a 4-day exhibition of different kinds of Russian arms, documents and equipment captured by the Mujahideen in Afghanistan.
A large number of students, professors and staff vrent to see the exhibition vfoich vas held under strict security arrangements.
   All sorts of Russian-made defused and used mines, hand-grenades, large and small size bombs, pieces of destroyed tanks, caps and boots and identity cards of the Russian and Kabul regime soldiers were put on display.
    It is the first time that such a large display of Russian captured weapons and equipments were put on
 exhibition in Peshawar University.
   A number of prominent University figures and those who arranged the exhibition addressed the participants and informed them about the Russian's brutal use of such arms against the Afghan civilians. They said that the purpose of such an exhibition was to ascertain the fact that the Russians had no hesitation in using such deadly weapons against the Afghan people.
   This exhibition provided an opportunity for ICRC team to get the names of the Russians whose documents were on display.
   The organizers of the. show however did not allow the team to photograph or note the names from the
                                                                                                Turn to page (S)
  Landmine Jti/fs woman photographer
    A Japanese woman
                                     photographer was
                                    killed by a landmine
                                   explosion near Saroobi
                                    District on October 3.
    Naoko Nanjo, 30. is
   the second woman
                                    photoiournaUst killed
                                    in landmine blast in
                                   Afghanistan this year.
   The first ’woman wos a . Norwegian add worker who lost her life in a mine explosion in Jaii area.of Paktia province. It is to be remembered that since 1982 upto this year 8 foreign photographers and journalists have been j killed in Afghanistan
   ^hiie covering the war. Nanio was travel ling with the Mujahideen of Commander Anwar to Saroobi area where she wanted to cover the Mujahideen attacks on the DRA security posts along the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway.
    Five days after the death of Nanjo, her family arrived In Pakistan from japan to inquire about the possibility of taking the body to her home country. But later they j prefered for her to be buried in Afghanistan as it was too late for them to decide otherwise.
     In the pre-war period of Afghanistan. Commander Anwar being a member of Afghan National Wrestling team, received training from Japanese coaches and was familiar with some of their sportsmen. This kind of sporting relationship provided a link between Commander Anwar and some Japanese who came to the area to report the war. 0
 ----------- AEGKANew Vq14, No20, October 15,1988, Page 6
 Who s who in the Mujahideen
 Commander Mohammad Ismael Khan
 | COMMANDER Ismael is a I famous Jami'at commander In \ Herat who has built a j relatively good military and
 j civilian organization, He has been busy unifying the j Mujahideen in the West of ] Afghanistan,
 j In 1979, he was serving in j the communist army when the | popular uprising against the | communist regime started. He | and some of his military I colleagues helped the Mujahideen against the communist regime. As a result of their cooperation with the Mujahideen the military units of the regime in Herat surrendered to the Resistance. Thousands of weapons and great quantities : of ammunition Fell into the hands of the Mujahideen.
       in recognition of his services to Jehad he was appointed as the chief commander of jamlat in Herat.
 | Ismael Khan was bom in \ 1949 in Shindand District of | Far ah province. He studied j his primary school in j Shindand District upto!966 | and went to Kabul where he I got admission in the Military Academy. Upon his graduation from the Academy in 1969 he was assigned to the !7th Military Division in Herat as a Second Lieutenant. The following year he was promoted as a unit commandant in the Division s Air Defence. He remained in this post until he he joined the Mujahideen.
       Ismael Khan has built a military organization similar to an army. This is because of his military background. He has his own military structure in addition to leading other commanders who have a degree of freedom. His relationship with the
  other Jam i at commanders could be described as a federation of different groups and he is serving as the chief coordinator.
     In late 1985. Ismael Khan expanded the organizational work covering nine provinces in South-West Afghanistan.
     To further strengthen Mujahideen bases within the province, he set up 10 mountainous strongholds around Herat. As he went along with this plan, the Russians and Kabul regime sharply reacted by deploying massive numbers of troops accompanied by a thousand | tanks and hundreds of combat ! planes in an abortive attempt I to prevent any Mujahideen fortifications around the province.
      Ismael Khan has achieved some remarkable victories in the war against the Russians and the Communist regime.
      Launching successive operations wiping out ail enemy border bases in 1985, exploding a big Russian base
     THREE Resistance parties have agreed to coordinate their military and political eff orts.
     jami at IsfasnL leaded by Prof, Rabbani. Hezb Istami headed by Mawlavi Yunus Khalis and Islamic Unity of Mujahideen headed by Prof. Sayyaf have signed a document which permits for close cooperation between the three parties.
     The three parties are part of the seven Party Alliance,
I which is an umbrella organization giving its members full freedom of
 near Herat city as a result of which 41 Russian officers and soldiers were killed, exploding Shindand Military Airfield in which 22 combat aircraft burned and the liberation of two districts of Keshk and Chesht in 1986 and Ohooryan in 1987 are among his military achievements. He has carried out simitar operations in other South-West provinces especially in Farah, Badghis and Ghoorat.
    To unify all the South-Western fronts and coordinate their actions he called a meeting of ail the nine provinces held in Saghar of Ghoor in which he outlined all Ms plans with a particular stress on the military coordination among the nine provinces.
    Ismael Khan is. a humble man with all the qualities of a good and caring Muslim, A British journalist who met Ismael Khan described him as a classical hero , □
  action.
     Closer cooperation between the three parties is considered by observers as a positive development in the direction of better unity among the Mujahideen.
     Field commanders and the political offices of these parties have been informed about the decision of close cooperation between these parties.
      The commanders and the Mujahideen of the three parties have been asked to strengthen their unity with | other Mujahideen as well. Q
              Three parties pledge close cooperation
 -------------- AEGHANevs Vol4, No 20, October 15,1988, Page 7
   .    w«gw——uwmiiBi iiw—wgy iii nr imcgwciagiww^^terini TNvrjuii ■ <»t«CTg*^
 From the diary of Jehad              Fart-4
            Economic compromises finance
                               Jehad
                          By Mohammad Es'haq
       IK the lower pan of the valley a village called Anaba was as normal. Fields were green and the shops full of goods. This was the only village in which civilians lived under the rule of the Soviets.
      The people of this village who were living as refugees outside the valley were brought by force to the valley as part of the reintroduction of the population, a campaign launched by the puppet regime in 1984. The enemy thought that the presence of the civilian population would discourage the Mujahideen from launching attacks against the Soviets in the area.
      It was also intended to pave the way for political work among the population.
      The programme failed in other parts of Paajshir but i the people of An aba were j deceived and once they were there, they were treated as hostages. Some families could escape through the mountains but the rest remained there. While the majority were deceived there were a few who actually joined the enemy and worked against the Mujahideen. When the Soviets withdrew from the area those j who had committed crimes j left the valley.
      The people and the s Mujahideen were demanding j that the people of the village ! be tried. The case was to be discussed in the coming meeting of the Panjshir Commanders chaired by Commander Masood.
 | It should be added that I more than a hundred
| Mujahideen from the same village lived in the mountains and fought the enemy. They launched some daring raids inside the enemy’s defensive perimeters and rescued their families.
     The lower part of the valley is connected to Shamali plateau through a gorge called Rah-i-Tang.
     Passing through the gorge in a bus took my memory back to the events of 13 years ago. At that time! and a group of my friends from Kabul University smuggled some guns to the valley to be used in an abortive uprising against President Daouti.
     We were unhappy with the | Communist influence in [ Daoud s government and there I was no peaceful means to show our displeasure. Armed action it seemed to us was the only way to oppose the regime. This gorge was the scene of the first armed encounter between the Islamist forces and Dauod’s police.
     At that time the people of a neighbouring valley called Shotoi, incited by some pro- government vi 11 age chiefs, attacked the insurgents and disarmed them, Mow the same people are on our side helping some of those who survived that incident.
     The commander of Shota! is Soft Saeed who has been fighting against the Communist forces since 1978, He is famous for his piety, courage and discipline. He travels back and forth in an elegant jeep captured from KHAD, the secret police of the
 regime. Two months ago, he scored a major victory by capturing an enemy garrison of one hundred men in a one-hour operation. The garrison was located in Gulbahar blocking the road to Panjshir.
    On our way to jahul Seraj we arrived at Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of the Panjshir valley.
 The town was controlled by the Mujahideen. There, I met an intelligent officer of Commander Masood whom! have known since the heginlnngof the war. We were invited for Kharboza (Afghan melon).
    GuibaStar is a pretty town which was once a resort for holiday makers from Kabul, the national capital about 60 Km in the South.
    A modern textile mill was constructed in Gulfeahar during the time of the king with technical assistance from West Germany. This factory provided job opportunities for more than 3000 persons.
    The factory is still working but the production level is reduced to half. It is interesting that the Mujahideen parties (both Hezb. and Jami at) have given permission for the local people to work in the Soviet-controlled factory,
 Soviet army units provide protection for the factory.
    We passed by the BRA I st Division Army posts stationed along the road between Gulbahar and jabul Seraj, A few months before |
                                                                                                Turn to page (8) j
                                                                                                                     \
 ______________________________j
      ------ AE&HANevs Vol4, Ho 20, October 15,1988, Page 8
            Compromises finance Jehad
         From page (.7)
  this division was stationed in Panjshir along with units I from the Red Army,
I    In the shops along the way
II saw some bottles of coke j produced locally. Out of
| curiosity, 1 bought a bottle,
! The taste e! the coke was j horrible. It was water with some sugar and color added, I had tasted Afghan coke 13 years ago. Then it was the real thing. The reason for the low quality is the lack of proper ingredients and trained personnel.
     Like many other things in the country Afghan coke is also suffering from Soviet invasion.
     Despite hardship caused j by the war soft drinks are becoming popular in Afghanistan. One can find softdrinks from Holland and frttii juice from Pakistan. But the best drink is the water from Hindukush streams,
     "We walked for two hours on the bank of a modem irrigation canal constructed with the technical assistance from the People s Republic of Chfiiau it is providing water for farms and gardens in Shorn ali plateau and has had a positive impact on the economic life of the people.
      $fieinali which starts from Kabul had extends to Panjshir, covers flat parts of the provinces of Parwan and Kapisa. It is a fertile area, Salang Highway connecting Kabul to the Soviet, border is passing through this area. Bagram air base and Qala-e-Surkh base at the mouth of the Salang valley are alsp located in Shemali, AH these give the area a unique strategic importance.
      The weather was very hot, and mosquitoes were a problem at night. Only the cold breeze from Salang made the weather mild at some hours of the day or night.
 jabui Sera|, a town at the mouth of Salang Valley, is an Interesting place to visit.
 Most of the villages are com rolled by the Mujahideen while the Soviets and DRA troops control the road,
    A cement factory and an hydroelectric plant are working in jabui Seraj, The power produced in the Communist-controlled power plant is being used by both the Mujahideen and the Soviets. The reason is simple.
 If the Mujahideen do not get their free power they will attack the plant and its' transmission lines.
    There is no formal agreement between the two sides but the deal has continued since the begininng of the war.
    We used electricity in Munara to charge the batteries of the first radio station operated by the Mujahideen in 1941, It was 20 watt FM transraetter stationed on the top of the mountain at the mouth of Panjshir valley. I was responsible for making the program and supervising a 30-minute daily transmission.
    We were able to broadcast for six months and were heard in Kabul. Soviets and the Communist forces could not find the location of the transmitter but resorted to indiscriminate bombing of the villages.
     The radio broadcast was stopped when two of its workers were killed in battle and two other were captured in a large-scale commando operation which covered the length of the Panjshir Valley.
     I stayed one night in Monara village one kilometer from the highway and the Soviets base. From the window of the house I watched big convoys reaching the base from Soviet Union.
     Besides being interested
 in the area and meeting the Mujahideen. I also wanted to meet some of our relatives living in Kabul, I had not seen them since the begintag of the war, My letter was carried by an old man and the next day they arrived.
    These types of meetings are common in the area. The Mujahideen usually visit family members by similar arrangements. The generocity of the local people and the courage of the Mujahideen have made these arrangements possible. Local people provide home, furniture and sometimes food for the visiting people. In a war torn country these opportunities are valuable.
     The sad part of my trip was the killing of one of my villagers, who was travelling with me, by some unknown people. He was an 1$ years old Mujahid famous for good conduct and bravery., □
                                  University
                                     holds
  exhibition
                                                                    Froin page (5)
documents because the Mujahideen who lent the documents had hot given permission for copying or photographing them.      j
But the team members who j
were able to read Russian may have memorized one or two names to check with the list of missing Soviet soldiers which the Soviets have provided to ICRC.
   An Afghan asked his friend why is the ICRC more concerned about 300 Russian criminals than the fate of thousands of innocent Afghans who are also missing? 0