Vol 6, No 11                                                 June 1,1990
                    Najib repairs his scarred public image
     The Kabul regime has begun an extensive campaign to improve its image outside Afghanistan, especially in the West. The campaign is designed to undermine support for the Afghan resistance by giving the regime a more human face.
     One step taken recently by the Kabul regime has been to drop the word "imperialism" from regime's constitution. Another has been to allow private investment in Kabul.
     One article of the regime's constitution mandated the government to support anti-imperialism movements. The Kabul regime until recently used the word "imperialism" as a synonym for the United States.
     The Kabul regime also has given permission for the establishment of a Pepsi Cola bottling factory. Despite sharp fall in the sale of soft drinks in Afghanistan, the Kabul regime has provided 75% of the compay's $4.5 million funding, with a tax-free period of six years. Sales of Coca-Cola dropped from 1.5 million creates of 25 bottles each in 1986 to less than 100,000 crates in 1989.
     For a country which relies on the Soviet aid for all its expenses, such projects can have no meaningful economic purpose.
     The Kabul regime also has passed laws to curb drug trafficking. This step was taken when the emergency was lifted, and other political changes were announced at the beginning of last month.
     The latest move in this direction was a beauty contest organised by the youth branch of the People's Democratic Party (the regime's version of Komsomol). The regime radio and television publicised the event heavily.
     The girl who won the contest was an hostess of Aryana Afghan Airlines. She received a cash prize of 2000 Afghanis (about $ 2).
              Zahir Shah intensifies efforts to regain power in Kabul
     Ex-king Mohammad Zahir Shah has issued a statement from exile in Rome, Italy, offering to mediate between the Mujahideen and what he called the 'effective forces of the nation' to overcome the present situation, which endangers Afghanistan and its people.
     Mohammad Zahir Shah ruled Afghanistan from 1933 to 1973. He was overthrown in a military coup engineered by his cousin. Prince Mohammad Daud. He abdicated his throne by writing a letter to President Daud from exile. He and his family have been living since then in Rome.
     The ex-king’s statement, read out in Rome by one of his representatives on May 11, says that the Mujahideen have not been able to topple the Kabul regime and now the country is endangered by ethnic and sectarian tensions. He also points out the problem of outside interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
     He says that Mujahideen leaders should not claim the political leadership of the country, because the people have not had a chance to choose their leadership.
     He offered his services to mediate between the Mujahideen and other 'effective forces' of the society in order to bring about unity among them. The ex-
 king says that he will follow his program in an organized manner and that he is in touch with friendly countries about his plans.
     Zahir Shah's statement provoked different reaction from different groups. The Kabul regime, welcoming it, said that it was expecting practical steps by the ex-king.
     The AIG reaction was not unanimous. The AIG president, Sebghatullah Mujaddadi, without going into detail, said he welcomed any positive step by Afghans to solve the problems of the country.
     Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of AIG, asked the king to refrain from issuing such statements because he has no role to play in future Afghan politics.
     Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani told AfghaNews that such statements will not solve the problem, but merely complicate them.
     Several commanders belonging to NIFA (Gailani party) supported the king's statement.
     The king's statement was made public before the US-USSR summit which is to held in Washington at the end of May. The Afghanistan issue will be discussed by the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union.
Kabul regime holds second position in world arms race
    The Kabul regime is the second major recipient of arms in Asia after India, and the Soviet Union is the first exporter of arms in world, says a report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute,
      SIPRI reports say that Soviet Union sells 37% of the world's arms, and the United States, 34%. France ranks third and the United Kingdom
 fourth in conventional arms I sales. China is the worlds fifth arms exporter.
    Asia is buying more arms I than any other continent, and l Afghanistan is buying more I than in the past, the SIPRI report says.
    According to Western ■ sources the Kabul regime re-1 ceives military aid worth be-1 tween 300 and 400 million dol-1 lars each month from the Soviet Union.                I
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
    News
From The Battlefields
  Badakhshan Province
    Seventy enemy soldiers were killed and 80 injured when the Mujahideen attacked Shahr-i-Buzurg sub-district, Badakhshan, on May 12.
    Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council had wanted to capture the area, which is defended by 1500 soldiers and militiamen, but due to losing the element of surprise* were only able to liberate a village 2nd to destroy some posts.
    The Mujahideen slowed down their attack due to shortage of ammunition, but fighting between the Mujahideen and the defenders of the town still continues. The enemy launched ten counterattacks to recapture the area it lost to the Mujahideen, but the attacks were repulsed.
    Abdul Qadir Wasiqi is Jami'at commander in Shahr-i-Buzurg and the militiamen defending the area belong to SAZA, a communist faction in coalition with Najib.
    Takhar Province
    In fighting against an enemy supply convoy which began on April 27, more than ten armored cars and ten trucks have been destroyed and 50 enemy soldiers killed near Khaja Ghar district
    The convoy wanted to take supplies to Khaja Ghar. The Kabul regime made Khaja Ghar the provincial capital of Takhar after Taliqan came under Mujahideen control.
    A militia commander, Haji Fazle Haq, was among those killed by the Mujahideen. Later the enemy succeeded in taking the supply convoy to Khaja Ghar.
    Some months ago the governor of Takhar, along with 40 officers and soldiers, were killed in the same area when they tried to force through a supply convoy . The Mujahideen in these
 areas say they cannot maintain sustained pressure on the enemy garrison and its supply routes because of shortages of ammunition.
   Baghlan Province
    Amir Rasul, an ex-Mujahideen commander who has developed close relations with the Kabul regime, launched an attack against Jami'at in Nahrin district at beginning of May. After losing seven men in 24 hours of fighting the enemy retreated. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
    Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and six trucks and killed 15 militiamen, including an officer, when they ambushed an enemy column in Juma Bazar area outside Maimana, the provincial capital, on April 15. Two Mujahideen were killed and a few sustained injuries.
    •Thirty-two militiamen were killed and ten were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their positions inside the city of Maimana on April 27, the 12th anniversary of the communist coup of 1978.
    In the operation, in which different Mujahideen groups participated, only one Mujahid was killed.
    Kabul Province
    One enemy tank and one truck were destroyed in Deh Sabz district by landmines on May 7. Nine soldiers and two officers of the regime were killed and seven soldiers were wounded.
    •Istalif sub-district was liberated by the Mujahideen on May 19. Istalif, about 35 kilometers north of the capital, was a resort town.
    The government had a small garrison in the town. The report does not make clear what happened to the sol-
 diers in the garrison.
     Istalif was famous for its blue pottery and fur coat handicrafts which attracted tourists before the war.
     Travellers returning from the, area say that after several years the potteries have restarted their work and the blue potteries were seen for sale in the local shops. Commander Sufi Rasul from Jami'at is the most dominant figure in Istalif and the surrounding areas
     Herat Province
     On May 8, the Mujahideen liberated the village of Baghjan in Adraskan District and captured 30 guns. Seventy families lived in the mentioned village. Fighting against the enemy posts in the district continues.
     • On May 9, three soldiers arid one officer of the regime stationed in Adraskan district surrendered to the Mujahideen, bringing with them 10 Kalashnikov rifles.
     •On May 21, a Muslim officer and two soldiers defected with their tank to the Mujahideen in Zindajan district. In retaliation the enemy attacked the residential areas with artillery, which caused no casualties.
     •In a joint operation, the Mujahideen from Jami'at have liberated five villages in Pushtoon Zarghoon District. Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed, 30 injured and 13 were captured. The Mujahideen seized 120 guns.
     The attack was launched by the Mujahideen belonging to Ismail Khan, Afzali Front, Sufi Abdul Jabar and Ghulam Yahya.
  Ningarhar Province
     Seven civilians were killed and 15 injured in Roodad District when the regime planes dropped bombs in a vil lage on May 13.
    Badghis Province
     On April 12, the Mujahideen killed four militiamen, including a commander, and captured eight guns in Dara-i-Sabz area.
     •On May 7, the Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Dar-i-Sabz of Laman area, killing 18 soldiers and capturing three. A group of militiamen with 100 guns joined the Mujahideen. Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
     •On May 13, 100 armed militiamen and soldiers joined the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No ll, June 1, 1990, page ©
Wisdom of the sages
ap—^
                         Saint prays for oppressor
   A darwesh, who never prayed in vain, made his appearance at Baghdad. Hajaj Yousuf sent for him, and said, "Offer up a prayer for me." The darwesh said, "O! God take away his life." Hajaj asked, "For God’s sake what kind of prayer is this?" The darwesh answered, "It is a salutary wish for yourself and for all Moslems." He continued, "O! thou powerful wretch, who oppressest the weak, how long will this violence continue? Of what use is thy government? It is better that thou shouldst die, because thou art an oppressor of mankind."
                     When sleep is better than worship
                                     A
   A certain tyrannical king asked a religious man, "What kind of devotion will be most meritorious for me to perform? He replied. "That you sleep at noon, because in that one moment you will not oppress mankind." When I saw a tyrant sleeping at noon, I said, "He is a tyrant. It is best that he should be overcome with sleep. He who is better asleep than awake, death is preferable to such an evil life."
                                                                                           Shoora builds in northern
    The reconstruction Committee of the North-East Zone of the Supervisory Council (SC) has helped in the reconstruction of the country by giving assistance to farmers for construction and repair of irrigation channels and roads.
    The Committee provided free seed and fertilizer to 2500 poor farmers in different parts of the zone last year. It also formed a number of farms in Farkhar and Taliqan in which seedlings of fruit trees and improved wheat seed are grown for distribution among the farmers.
  • The Committee has started fighting against plant diseases on an experimental basis. It tries to persuade the farmers to grow different types of vegetables to improve the quality of the people's diet
    The Reconstruction Committee is working on a number of irrigation projects and surveying some others.
    Seventy percent of the work on the irrigation channel of Sangi-Aatash in Farkhar has been completed and work on the Tarisht-Worsaj irrigation project has made 50 percent progress.
    The committee has repaired Worsaj-Taliqan road and work for the repair of Taliqan-Keshm road has started.
    Engineers of the committee are busy surveying a number of roads in Kunduz, Takhar and Baghlan provinces, and when funds are available the
 roads, canals Afghanistan
 construction work will begin. On com pletion of these projects the local popu lation will benefit from easy and cheap vehicular transportation.
    The committee plans to build a lev ee in Namakab valley to protect the food salt mine in that valley.
    An official of the committee told Hindukush News Agency that if funds were available, with present trained staff the committee could do- much more in both agriculture and construction fields.
    The work of the committee has given new hope to the people who have suffered in the last twelve years of war.
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
                 4^ Su jfK i C
                                                            '■^***1 o* j* O*
 No one says his own buttermilk is sour.
 Meaning: No one advertises his own faults.
                                                                                                                i 4^ LJuwwJ I tUULa ✓ SjtyLt jLLa 4^ <4J
 Good perfume is known by its own scent rather than by the perfumer's advertisement.
 Meaning: A good tree is known by its fruit; or, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
                                                                                                                                 ■vo*1
                                                                                                          Poor iron won't make a sharp sword. .
 Meaning: You caitt get quality out of inferior raw material.
 iS3 4-*-^ (£J w) <> 4j
 Where there is discipline there is so rial order.
 Meaning: Spare the rod and spoil the child; or, a pet lam makes a cross ram.


 Narrated Abl Htiraira:
 him) said, " Both hi this world and
                                                                              ■
 in the Hereafter. I am
 warn
HPPI
brothers; their mothers are differ- i
         L i
                                                                                                                                               J V
                                                                                                                                           I ■
ent, but their religion is one
!« * \

                                                      
-                                                     
               XjLJL Vj JLixjL                        
' - * '                                               
P.O.Box 264, Peshawar* Pakisia >n Tel: (0521) 41381 ' 
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1, 1990, page Q
  Editorial
                                                           Jami'at opposed to return of old system in country
    The stalemate on the battlefield and the Mujahideen's failure to unify their ranks have given fresh hope to those who want the ex-king to return to power. Several developments related to Afghanistan have encouraged Zahir Shah to intensify his political activities. Among them are the frustration of ordinary Afghans and changing attitudes toward Afghanistan in the outside world.
    The common man in Afghanistan strongly desires peace. The people do not trust the Kabul regime because of its past atrocities, its un-Islamic reputation and the limited control it exercises.
    On the other hand, the Mujahideen did not achievfe the quick victory that the people expected of them. When asked about the role of Zahir Shah as an alternative, some people say they do not oppose him if he can bring peace. This answer gives the ex-king and his colleagues fresh hopes for grabbing power.
    The outside world wants to see an end to the Afghan problem. The Soviet Union would welcome the return of the ex-king, if the PDPA was given legal status. The Western countries also find the idea of the king's return acceptable because they think it will bring peace to Afghanistan (!) and result in a form of government which they will not have to worry about.
    None of this is new. For a long time the king's domestic and foreign admirers have advised him to take practical steps, but he has not taken such a risk. It seems that he is waiting for the two superpowers and all Afghan groups to call on him to assume the leadership of the country. But that might not happen at all.
    The ex-king's supporters project him as a unifying figure within the Afghan resistance. In his statements he has pointed to this unifying role by offering his mediation services. But his statements have created more rifts between the Mujahideen instead of bringing them closer.
    The ex-king addresses the people as a common well-wisher of the Afghan people. He pretends to have no ambitions for power. This reminds one of his father's statement after his return to Afghanistan. After defeating Habibullah the Second, victorious Nadir Khan told the people around him that he did not have any ambitions tp become a king, but a " Jirga" of his admirers imposed the monarchy on him and his family. The only difference between the statement of the father and his son is that Nadir Khan made the statement after the victory, while Zahir Shah uses the slogan to pave the way to victory.
    The ex-king has mentioned some of the difficulties Afghanistan faces today, such as ethnic, regional and sectarian issues. These problems are not new. Even during the peaceful rule of the ex-king such differences existed and people were discriminated against linguistic, regional and sectarian grounds. Government policies endorsed this discrimination to th? extent that it pushed some people to form political parties to defend the rights of their groups. The former King was unable to solve these problems at a time when everybody accepted the system. Now that the myth Of the central government has been destroyed, how could he find a Solution?
    The ex-king's challenge to the legitimacy of the political leadership of the resistance does not take into account the situation in Afghanistan and the nature of the war the Mujahideen fought against Soviet forces. The present leadership of the resistance has the support of the people, without which they could not have survived a decade of war. The Mujahideen on one hand have to fight against the Kabul regime and on the other hand, have to evolve an organization to replace it. Raising slogans of popular consent through the ballot box .while the war still continues, is a mistake which is being committed even by some Mujahideen groups in order to impress outsiders. Zahir Shah's proposal is designed to undermine the
                                              Turn to page (8)
                    Elections fail to resolve dispute over Kunar shoora
Abdul Basir

     Controversy over the results of the Kunar elections persists, and compromise solutions have not been acceptable to the two parties participating in the elections.
     Two parties, Hezb Islami Hikmatyar and Jamilur Rahman's party (known as Wahabis) participated in the contest to elect one hundred members for a provincial assembly.
     According to media reports Jamilur Rahman's party was ahead of Hezb when the votes were counted. The ballot boxes from three districts of Kunar arrived late. Hezb insisted that those votes also be counted while the other party says that since they arrived after the deadline they should not be counted.
     The parties within the interim government did not participated in the elections, which were held on March 1. There were contradictory reports about the voter turnout. Hezb Islami sources claimed a high turnout, while others said only two percent of eligible voters participated in the elections.
     In a new development, the newly appointed governor of Kunar, Mohammad Ali Rahmani entered Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, on March 17 and started his work.
     When Kunar was liberated, seven parties formed an administration and appointed Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani from Jami'at as the governor of Kunar. Jamilur Rahman's parly remained out of the administration.
     Mawlawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG, appointed a new governor, Mohammad Ali. His appointment was opposed by Hezb Islami, Jamilur Rahman's party and Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani. They proposed holding elections, which was in turn opposed by die AIG.
     On April 10, a Pakistani paper reported that the result of Kunar elections was announced by the election commissioner. According to this report, Hezb and the Wahabis were given 35 seats each in assembly of 124 members. Jami'at was given 15 seats and the remaining seats were shared by the rest of the parties in the province.
     The next day, Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman said the news was wrong and claimed that his party had won 37 seats while Hezb had won only 32 seats.
     Despite the hard work by the two contesting parties in Kunar to make the elections successful, the event reveals the difficulty of holding country-wide elections. Kunar - totally liberated and close to Pakistan - was the easiest place to hold elections.           ^
     These developments in Kunar reveal the complicated nature of Afghan politics and the difficulties of holding electfons countrywide, using the ballot box system.
AFGHANews Viol-6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
Masood sees positive role for Commanders* council
    The Supervisory Council paper, Shoora, in its April 4th issue has published an exclusive interview with Commanders Masood about the formation of Council of Commanders iti Afghanistan. Following is the text of the interview:
    Shoora: As you know, the armed struggle against the communist regime is stalemated due to various internal and external factors. What should the Mujahideen do to break the stalemate during the current year?
    Masood:     I     believe   the
 Mujahideen, with the help of God and support of the people, have the ability to defeat the Kabul‘regime, which is much weaker than the Soviet Army. The temporary stalemate is because of a change in the military situation. In the past the enemy (the Soviets) were fighting an offensive war while the Mujahideen' fought a defensive war. Now the regime fights an defensive war, while the Mujahideen must switch to offensive attacks.
    This phase of war requires that the Mujahideen, who were fighting guerilla war in the past, change their way of fighting to suit the new situation. The commanders of the major fronts should form a war council and a united command and evolve a workable fighting strategy so that the Kabul regime may be defeated.
    Shoora: What should one expect from the Council of Commanders and what is the Supervisory Council ready to do to make it happen ?
    Masood:    If  the Council of
 Commanders is formed, I believe the commanders taking part in it will reach
 an agreement on the creation of a high command, and will evolve a workable military strategy paving the way for positive changes in favor of the Mujahideen. This will give new life to the armed' struggle against the communists.
     The Supervisory Council of Jami'at is ready to render any sacrifice this goal requires, and will put all its resources at the disposal of the new high command.
     Shoora: Which commanders will support the idea of forming the Council of Commanders ?
     Masood: Formation of the Council of Commanders and a united command is not only the requirement of the time, but the desire of ordinary Afghan people, as well as Jehad commanders. For some time, the Supervisory Council has been receiving proposals by commanders from major Jehad fronts for the formation of such a council. But it is not necessary at this stage to give more detail about it
     Shoora: What do you predict the reaction of the Mujahideen political leaders will be towards the formation of the Council of Commanders ?
     Masood:     I  think  all  .the
 Mujahideen leaders and parties want to find a way out of the present stalemate. This proposal is the best way to break the stalemate and defeat of the Kabul regime. Therefore, those leaders who feel their responsibilities towards their religion and people will warmly welcome this proposal. I hope our leaders will extend their full support to the achievement of this goal.
               Regime attacks threaten UN plan to send Afghan refugees home
     The UN plan to send refugees to Afghanistan is facing problems because of regime military actions against the liberated areas.
     Recently the Kabul regime has carried out air raids in Kunar, Logar and Paktia.
     The UN wanted to start a program of voluntary return of the refugees this summer. The idea was to settle refugees in liberated areas which were described by the UN officials as ‘zones of peace and tranquility'.
     UN officials have said that the
 Kabul regime has been informed of their worries about the effect of these bombardments on the return of the refugees.
     There are about three million Afghan refugees in Pakistan and two million in Iran.
     The UN has started to mark the refugees' passbooks with counterfoil stickers. It is said that the labeled passes will purchased by the UN authorities when refugees decide to return voluntarily to their country.
      The i&wly formed Hezbullaft po-li tical party is headed by a Shla religious scholar, Shaikh Yonsuft, from Ghazni province, Najib give permission for the formation of HezbdUah (party.of God) after he lifted die: emergency situation *
                            ^ im
      Prof. Mohammad Asghar* the chairman of Salvation Society of Afghanistan (SSA), has refused to take part in the cabinet of the newly, appointed "non-party” prime minister cf the Kabul regime. -
      According to Reuter, SSA is struggling for the return of foe <»
     Two diplomats, one belonging to the UN and the other to Yugoslavia, have been injured by a rocte^alleg odty food by the hfojahideen,, _
     The West German Embassy in Rabat wasalso hit
     Prof Mujaddidi, thePreditot of AJGk has left Peshawar for an unofficial visit to Egypt and Saudt Arabia.
     Bis visit to Egypt coincided with foe visit of Prune Minister Bhutto hot it is not dear whether Or not it Was a coincidence.
     During her tour of eight Islamic countries in Middle Easlsand North AMca, foe iiMmo Minister' of Pakistan held discussions with leaders of these countries on the Kashmir; situation 4 and foe , problem of Afghanistan.
     Unknown gunmen stole two from Austrian relief committee after; disarming the guards, The incident took place in the early morning of May 19 in University Town,: Peshawar ..
     The two major changes: Intro duced in the constitution of the Kabu tegpe are-foe induction of foe word Islam and the elimination of the word imperialism* The first change is de signed to appease foe Mujahideen; ami the second to please the; Americans. Until recently foe Kabul regime always used the word import-: affs& before the nggne of the United Stales of America*
  i..•..:...................v.......J
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 11, June 1,1990, page ©
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Commander Rahimullah
    Rahimullah was bom 28 years ago in Gomaran village, Mohammad Agha district.
    His father, Haji Khan Lala, a Tajik, was a shopkeeper in his village. After primary education in Gomaran , Rahimullah enrolled in Mohammad Agha High School.
    He was in high school when the communist coup took place, and in 1979 he left the eleventh class of the school to join the Mujahideen.
    Rahimullah first joined Hezb Islami and fought under the command of Engineer Naeem. When Eng. Naeem was martyred in 1981, he joined Jami'at and started to work with Commander Akbar. After a while. Commander Akbar was captured by the Soviet forces, and was executed in 1983.
    Rahimullah was chosen by the Mujahideen to lead Commander Akbar’s group. In one of the attacks, his father, who was 75 years old, was killed by the communist forces. Commander Rahimullah leads about 40 Mujahideen. He has taken part in many battles. Here are some of the operations in which he has taken active part: (
    In 1984, the communist forces attacked the Mujahideen base in
 Gomaran village. The Mujahideen under his command resisted. Fourteen communists including a nephew of Babrak Karmal, former head of the Kabul regime, and Ashraf Be Khuda (Godless) who was also a relative of Babrak, were killed and seven soldiers were captured.
     In retaliation, the communists attacked the area and massacred 32 civilians, including his father. They killed everyone whom they found in the area.
     In the same year his Mujahideen participated in an ambush against an enemy convoy in Safid Sang area, destroying 30 vehicles and capturing three officers. Two Mujahideen including his cousin, Mamoor Payinda Gul, were killed in the operation.
     In 1985, the Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy in Safid Sang area, destroying 12 vehicles and killing or wounding a considerable number of soldiers. Commander Rahimullah lost three Mujahideen in this operation. 30 civilians were wounded in regime’s retaliatory action.
     He is married. Most of the people of Gomaran are refugees in, Pakistan and the village was destroyed by the Soviet troops.
Commander Abdul Latif
    Haji Abdul Latif Faizi was bom in a Pushtoon family in Nasir-village near Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar in 1956. His father. Mullah Mohammad Jan, was a religious scholar.
    Abdul Latif attended religious schools and in 1978, when the communist coup took place, he was studying in Kandahar. He returned to Logar in: 1979 and joined the Mujahideen to wage armed struggle against the communists.
    He took active part in the uprising which resulted in the liberation of Logar province in 1979. The province was in the hands of the Mujahideen for three days.
    Abdul Latif moved to Do Bandi, a narrow valley in the east side of the Logar valley. He was appointed as the commander of Jami«l in Pul-i-Alam.
    Commander Abdul Latif was quite active against the Soviets and regime forces;                 ‘
    In 1980 he took part in an attack against an enemy convoy, destroying about 80 vehicles. He was injured in this operation.
      In 1986, regime forces attacked Nasir village. Commander Latif resisted the enemy and killed three officers and some soldiers. The enemy retaliated by aeria bombing of the village killing and wounding a number of civilians.
      In 1988, his Mujahideen attacked a strategic enemy post in Qala-i-Wazir. After making initial progress they were forced to retreat when commander Abdul Jalil was killed. The enemy suffered heavy casualties in the attack.
      Commander Latif topk interest in opening schools. He established two religious schools. In May this year, 16 students graduated, after completely memorizing the Holy Quran, from one of the schools he opened.
      He was killed in November 18, iQ$9 when his car hit a land mine planted by some unknown people in Logar. He has left behind a widow and three children.
  Cmdr. Hanan
    Mohammad Arif, known as Dr. Hanan, was bom 35 years ago in a Pushtoon family in Surkhab village, Mohammad Agha District
    After completing primary school in Suikhab, he went to Mohammad Agha High School. In 1974 he became a student of the Veterinary Faculty of the Kabul University. After the coup of 1978, Mohammad Arif left college and became a refugee in Pakistan.
    He joined Jami’at through Ustad Ahmad Zay, one of the leaders of the Islamic Movement
    His Mujahideen have taken part in various engagements against the Soviet and regime forces, some of which are as follows:
    In 1979, his Mujahideen fought the regime forces in Dobandi area and inflicted heavy losses on them.
    In 1980, his Mujahideen took part in fighting launched by the enemy upon Surkhab. Eight vehicles were destroyed, and several enemy soldiers were killed in this attack.
    In 1981, his Mujahideen destroyed three enemy trucks and captured 20 weapons.
    In 1987, the Mujahideen attacked a Soviet-regime ambush party between Surkhab and Puli Alam, destroying two tanks and killing 20 soldiers. One heli copter was also shot down. Six Mujahideen belonging to Dr. Hanan were killed in the attack.
    In 1985, in an operation against enemy positions in Mohammad Agha, his Mujahideen captured more than 40 guns.
    He is married and has three chil dren. Like most people in Logar, his family lives in Pakistan.
 Sadruddin against dog mine detection
   According to an article published in Los Angles Times on April 30 Prince Sadruddin, the UN coordinator for humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, opposes using dogs to sniff out mines.
   Sadruddin, in a letter to the American ambassador to Pakistan, said that the American project of using dogs to detect mines violates the dog’s animal rights. He said mines placed by human beings should be removed by human beings
AFGHANews Vol6, Noll, June 1, 1990, page @
Opinion by:
Mohammad Es'haq
Coordinated warfare should be top aim of commanders' moot
     The recent meeting of 37 commanders inside Afghanistan in order to discuss the situation in the country is a step forward, provided that its objective is to intensify the war against the regime.
     The three-day meeting began on May 7 in Paktia. 37 commanders, including some from Shia parties, participated. The meeting had no fixed agenda. The present situation in Afghanistan, and how to coordinate military activities among . the Mujahideen were the main topics. The organizers of the meeting set up a committee to try to convene an even larger meeting of commanders inside Afghanistan.
     The idea of forming a council of commanders from all over Afghanistan is not new. Such an idea was originally proposed by Ahmad Shah Masood. In interview published some time ago in Shoora newspaper, he said that such a council should discuss the formation of a high command. He said formation of such a command will be the only way to improve the military situation, and added that if such a council is formed, the Supervisory Council stands ready to give it all possible support.
     Masood expected the political leaders to support such a move because it was the best way of escaping the present stalemate. The Jami'at leader has given cautious support for the recent commanders' meeting, and has said that all efforts of the Council should be directed towards intensification of war and coordination of military activities.
     While efforts to form a grand council of commanders has started, here are some problems facing the organizers which they should watch carefully:
     The commanders' council should not fall into competition with the AIG
 and other political parties. Support of the political parties is very important for the success of the commanders' mission.
     An important step to avoid such a confrontation is to keep the council from becoming a political forum. Its primary objective should be improvement of the .military situation. Once practical steps are taken and the military situation has improved the council will be taken more seriously and it will have a positive say on. major issues concerning the future of Afghanistan.
     The second important point is that it should not be used to gain publicity for a person or a party., Any attempt in that direction will sabotage the idea for which the council is supposed to be formed. News of the council should be given by a selected group of people, and individual commanders should avoid giving interviews, at least in the primary stages.
     The third point, of which the organizers are fuflly aware, is that the council should include most of the effective commanders irrespective of their regions and political affiliation. A council in which most of the effective commanders or their powerful envoys participate will serve the national unity and neutralize enemy designs of the enemy to divide Afghans. In order to give it a national character the venue of the meeting should be shifted during each session. The deeper inside the country the meetings take place, the more credible they will be.
     The organizers of the council should' try to maintain its independent character. The idea has originated with Afghans themselves and its implementation should be protected from outside influence. Once the council's positive results show themselves on the battlefield, the external supporters of Jehad will line up behind it. ______________
Jehad University graduation ceremony held
    Graduates of the first university of the Mujahideen in exile were awarded certificates on May 10.
    Prof. Sayyaf, who founded the University of Jehad, gave away the certificates.
    Speakers on the occasion emphasized the need for higher education. Maulawi Khalis said he was not against women's education if they observe Hejab.
    Jehad University has faculties of Islamic law, medicine, engineering and education. Jami'at Islami has opened a university for women.
    There is no controversy among Afghans about the importance of education for both men and women. The Islamist parties stress the need for Islamic education system and observation of Islamic dress for'the students.
    Mujahideen hurt by Sadruddin *s remarks
                                                     Habibur Rahman
    The recent statement by Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, at the Strategic International Center of Georgetown University in Washington, regarding the situation in Afghanistan, prdvoked a strong feaction from Mujahideen leaders.
    Agha Khan is the United Nations coordinator for humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan.
    He told his audience in the Strategic Center that, the war in Afghanistan was useless and its victims were the civilians.
    Agha Khan said the.aid sent to the Mujahideen falls into the hands of 'ex tremist groups’ who will use it to escalate the war.
    He proposed cutting arms supplies to both the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime and hoped that the US and USSR will recognize some areas of Afghanistan as "peace zones" where a cease-fire might be observed.
    He charged that continuation of war helps the drug market, and that the money gained from drug sales will buy more guns to control the land where poppy is grown.
    The UN coordinator said that the continued war in Afghanistan endangers democracy in Pakistan. He men tioned that there were differences within the Pakistan government over Afghan policy.
    These remarks of Sadruddin Agha Khan, which are biased against the re sistance, are not new. He has made such remarks on other occasions as well.
    His words amounted to open criticism of the policies of the Afghan resistance, and he referred to the Mujahideen by the same terminology which Moscow and Kabul use toward the resistance.
    His remarks provoked a fierce reaction from the cabinet of the AIG. A statement described his remarks as unrealistic and hostile, and asked the UN coordinator to refrain from such hostile remarks in the future.
    Sadruddin's comments offended more than just a group of politicians in the resistance: all ordinary Afghans who hear them will be irritated as well. Coming from a ranking officer of the UN, they are deplorable.
 Turn to page (8)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No ll, June 1, 1990, page ©
From the Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
             Masood expresses solidarity with Kashmiri Muslims
     The May 5th issue of Shoora, the Supervisory Council (SC) newspaper which is published inside Afghanistan, has many interesting articles. Here we present summaries of several:
     In a front-page article, Ahmad Shah Masood has expressed his firm support for the Kashmiri Muslims' struggle for self-determination, and has condemned the oppressive measures which the Indian government has taken against Muslims in Kashmir.
     Cmdr. Masood asks all freedom-loving nations, and especially the Muslim countries, to extend their moral and political support to Muslims in Kashmir, and to call on the Indian government to allow the people of Kashmir to determine their own future.
     The second article of the paper describes Eid celebrations in the provincial capital of Takhar. The paper says about 20 thousand people gathered in the Central Mosque of Taliqan city to offer Eid prayer.
     Justice Abdul Khalil addressed the gathering, emphasizing the importance of Jehad in Islam.
     Engineer Sharifullah Esmatyar, head of the political committee of the SC's north zone, discussed the many crimes which the communists committed in Afghanistan.
     Dr. Ahmad Mushahid, the governor of Takhar, discussed the security situation in the province, which he described as good. He asked the people to cooperate with the Mujahideen to preserve law and order in the province.
     Sayyed Habibshah, head of the Islamic guidance committee of the SC, exposed the true identity of the communist regime in Afghanistan.
     At the end, Maulawi Abdul Qadir gave a sermon about the importance of fasting during the holy month of Ramadhan.
     After offering Eid prayers, the ula-ma, city dignitaries, commanders and officials of different committees attended a luncheon given by the governor in Taliqan Municipal Club.
     Regarding educational activities of the SC central zone, the paper says that about 14,000 students started school in Parwan, Kapisa and north of Kabul when the new academic year started.
     Prof. Mohammad Sharif Aman, the head of the central zone's education committee, told Shoora that his committee runs five high schools, 15 secondary schools and some primary
 schools. The students are taught by 850 teachers, 350 of whom received training last winter in new teaching methods, he added.
     Prof. Aman said that besides religious subjects, natural science, history and foreign languages are taught in the schools. He added that the first group of students will graduate from high school of the Council at the end of the present academic year. -
     Shoora criticizes the Tanai-Hikmatyar alliance in a long article. The paper argues that the Hikmatyar-Tanai alliance contradicts the principles of Jehad. The paper says that Hezb Islami isolated itself by joining hands with the Khalq party in a bid to reach power. According to the paper, most Hezb members cannot justify the alliance. According to Shoora, if it were not for the fear of reprisals against critics within the party, a large number of Hezb members would have expressed their dismay over the issue publicly.
  Mujahideen hurt
                                                           From page. (7)
      When Agha Khan started his work as the UN coordinator, he said the political and humanitarian issues had to be dealt with separately and that he was concerned with the humanitarian issues only. But as the time passed he has started to say things which are offensive to the resistance, and has acted in favor of the Kabul regime.
      The real reason behind Sadruddin's remarks is unknown. It might a sign of his frustration over his mission's lack of achievement. For someone who wants to become the next UN Secretary General, his accomplishments in Afghanistan have been very few. He might hold the resistance responsible for his failure, giving rise to his edged and vengeful remarks.
      Another reason for Sadruddin's hostile attitude towards the resistance may be the close relationship between Afghanistan's Ismaili community and the Kabul regime. Sadruddin, who comes from a leading Ismaili family, might feel closer to the Kabul regime because of his community's interest
      The reasons for Sadruddin's negative attitude towards the Mujahideen are uncertain, but his statement harms the reputation of die United Nations, which has a mandate to work for peace in Afghanistan. The UN Secretary General should tell Sadruddin to abstain from hostile remarks against Jehad and the Mujahideen, because he is an agent of the UN. If Sadruddin cannot control his mouth, he should resign from his present post. Then he can make all the comments he wants. His UN post and his offensive remarks do not go together.
      Sadruddin should know that a people with a record of ten years of war against a ruthless superpower must be a proud nation. Such a nation may be poor, but will never accept humiliation in any form.
      Editorial
  | From Page (4)          |
 leadership of the resistance for his own political ends.
    A strong point about the ex-king, in the opinion of his admirers, is his recognized personality. No doubt he is a famous man at home and abroad, but he is not the only famous person in Afghanistan. During the past ten years Mujahideen political leaders and field commanders have become famous. The reputation of some of the commanders of the Mujahideen exceeds that of the ex-king. If fame were the key to the problems Afghans are facing. Mujahideen political and military leaders would have solved them.
    Besides fame, an organisation is necessary. The ex-king lacks such an organization and it is unlikely he can create it now.
    It seems that Zahir Shah's offer to mediate is designed to win him control of the third party for a transitional period. Elections and transitional adminis tration are topics of discussion between the superpowers. Once he fills the transitional role, he can use his influence to make it permanent by calling Jirgas (tribal assemblies) with the blessings of the outside powers.
    For the followers of the Islamic movement, the return of Zahir Shah and a secular government is not acceptable. Only old bureaucrats, landlords and leftist elements are interested in the return of such a system.
    The outcome of giving up more than one million martyrs must be a truly Islamic state, and a new system in which the people of Afghanistan should participate in running their country. The pleasure of the outside world is of secondary importance in this struggle of life and death.
                                                  9(e[p us puBCisH
                                              (Please send your donations to the foCknuing account number:
            ffM&D Account Hp. 735-37 (Habib (BanJ^Ltd.
                                                  ‘Iefikcd Bala, Teshatuar (Palostan
Vol 6, No 12                                               June 15,1990
     More than 100 people have died and 400 have been wounded in ethnic clashes in the Soviet Central Asian Republic of Kirghizia since June 4.
     The clashes, between the Kirghiz majority and Uzbak minority, erupted over distribution of land. ■
     An emergency was declared in Frunze, the capital of Kirghizia, and Moscow sent more troops to control the situation.
     The Kirghiz ethnic group forms about half of the population of the republic, estimated about 4 million. Uzbaks form about 12 percent of the population. The remainder are from other nationalities of the Soviet Union.
     Soviet media projected the whole issue as an ethnic phenomenon but there, was evidence that riots had a political dimension too. The demonstrators attacked government buildings and raised slogans against the local communist party.
     A representative of the Azerbaijan resistance told a member of the Afghan resistance that the Soviet Government had used the issue of nationalities in the past to keep the people divided, but that it was backfiring -now the people use ethnic issues to express their dissatisfaction with the regime.
       Thirty people died and 200 sustained injuries in clashes between demonstrators and the Soviet army in
 Tajikistan Republic some months ago.
       Soviet media blamed outsiders for the riots. Radio Moscow, quoting Pravda, the Communist Party paper, said Pakistan and the CIA wanted to spread Islam and create trouble in Central Asia. The radio said the KGB, Soviet secret police, had taken necessary measures against the nationalist elements in Tajikistan.
       A diplomat in the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad has accused Commander Ahmad Shah Masood of sending 20,000 anti-Soviet booklets and 2,000 small arms to the nationalist elements in Tajikistan. Masood has denied this charge.
summit fails
to solve Afghan problem
     The - superpower summit in Washington has failed to agree on a formula to solve the problem of Afghanistan.
     The main obstacle in the talks was the role of Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, in the transitional phase.
     Several rounds of talks between American and Soviet officials reduced the gap between the views of the two countries, but could not bring' total agreement
     The two sides agree that there should be a political solution. They also think that holding elections is a good way of solving the problem. Both sides feel there should be a transitional period, but they have different views regarding that phase.
     For the Soviet Union the transition means observing a cease-fire, cutting off arms to both sides of the conflict, and forming joint Mujahideen and regime bodies to supervise the elections.
     The Americans want to see a transfer of power from Najib to a broad-based government before holding elections. This is necessary because the Mujahideen are not prepared to deal with the Kabul regime.                '
     When the Kabul regime survived the initial shock of the Soviet troop withdrawal. Kremlin leaders grew hopeful about the future of the regime. They became reluctant to negotiate any
deal in which Najib was not a participant.
     In order to give momentum to efforts to find a political solution, America made the first concession by dropping its demand that Najib must go before the begining of any political process to solve the issue. They said Najib should hand overpower to an interim arrangement after the talks have made progress.
     Recently the Bush administration made a further concession by saying that it did not object to the participation of Najib and the PDPA in the coming elections. The Mujahideen oppose allowing Najib and his party to participate in the elections.
     These concessions did not soften the position of the Soviet Union. Moscow’s inflexible stand is the main reason for the failure of Washington summit to reach an agreement.
     The Kabul regime's recent political moves were timed to have an impact on the Washington summit The regime wanted to impress the Americans with these initiatives. The Bush administration, aware of the deep hatred of the Mujahideen towards the Kabul regime, paid no attention. The Americans' attitude angered the regime, which had pinned high hopes on the summit
Kabul misuses UN name
 more than 10 million.
     Abdullah Shokoor, the head of the UN demining program in Kabul, has praised the role of Soviet Army in clearing some areas of mines.
     Shokoor, who is an officer of the regime army, told Radio Moscow that the Soviet Army had defused 337,307 mines planted by the Mujahideen in nine years of their presence in Afghanistan. He said: "We thank the Soviet soldiers who risked their lives to clear the landmines."
     He said there were about 200,000 mines, unexploded shells and other explosive devises scattered all over Afghanistan. He estimated the clearing process would take 4,000 experts three years.
     Western experts estimate the number of mines planted by the Soviet Army at
     The UN Coordinator for Humanitarian and Economic Assistance Programs relating to Afghanistan, Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, has a mandate to carry out a demining program so that the refugees will be able to return home.
     Shokoor said the UN runs demining classes with the help of the regime army. The classes are taught by foreign- and regime experts.
     The UN runs a similar program in Pakistan. Despite claims of training thousands of refugees no practical steps have been taken to clear die mines to make them safe for the people and theircattle.
 ________________________________ J
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15, 1990, page ©
 Badakhshan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 200 armed enemy soldiers and shot down an enemy transport plane in Faizabad, the provincial capital of the Badakhshan, Hindukush News Agency (HNA) reported.
    The Mujahideen under the command of Basir Khalid attacked the enemy in Dasht-i-Layaba, near Faizabad, on May 22. 200 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing their guns with them.
    The Mujahideen shot down a regime transport plane when they attacked Faizabad airport with heavy weapons on May 31. The landing plane caught fire after it was hit, and its passengers were killed.
    Faizabad, besieged by the Mujahideen, is supplied by air. Transport planes are used by regime officers for travel to and from the city.
    According to another report by the same source, the Mujahideen under the command of Basir Khan damaged an enemy helicopter when they attacked Faizabad aiiport on April 30.
    The source, quoting Basir Khan, says that a night raid on the resistance positions by the communists was repulsed when the Mujahideen killed 15 attackers.
    Takhar Province
    The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council have destroyed 15 regime tanks and armored cars in Khawja Ghar and have killed a prominent militia commander, HNA reported.
    The Mujahideen attacked the enemy position in Khwaja Ghar on April 27. In two weeks of fighting, 15 fighting vehicles were destroyed, two posts were captured and some weapons were
 seized. Twenty enemy soldiers, including a prominent Militia commander, Haji Fazl Haq, were killed and many other were injured. Two Mujahideen were killed and two injured in the attack.
    Enemy jets bombed the positions of regime troops by mistake, killing and wounding many soldiers.
    The Kabul regime uses Khawja Ghar as the capital of Takhar since the Mujahideen have liberated Taliqan.
    The Mujahideen under Cmdr. Piram Qul foiled an enemy attempt to capture the old city of Rustaq on May 23.
    The attack started at five o'clock in the morning and fighting between the two sides continued for six hours. The communist forces retreated after the Mujahideen killed 30 soldiers, injured four and captured five.
   Baghlan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated a strategic height from the control of regime militiamen on May 27, HNA reported.
    In the half-hour attack, three militiamen were killed and 11 injured. The Mujahideen seized 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-gun, one rocket launcher and one mortar. Three Mujahideen were killed and seven injured in the attack. The next night the enemy fired two BM-27 rockets on the liberated hill, Takht-i-Shahabadal, but caused no casualties.
    Regime forces, who had the support of Amir Rasool, attacked Hofian and Hasantal bases of the Supervisory Council on May 18. The attackers were forced to retreat after suffering heavy casualties.
    Amir Rasool is a commander of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar in the center of Baghlan. He has developed close contact with militias belonging to the Sayyed of Kayan. In the recent months
 they have launched several joint operations against Nahrin District, which is controlled by a Supervisory Council commander, Abdul Hay Haqjo.
    Kunduz Province
    A group of 40 armed robbers has been disarmed by the Mujahideen, HINA reported.
    The group, headed by Karim Qul, was armed with heavy and light weapons. The decision to take action against the bandits was taken by the Mujahideen council in Kunduz. The ringleaders of the bandits, Karim Qul and Mohammad Akbar, were arrested and handed over to the judicial authorities of the Mujahideen to be tried.
    The 40 thieves had made life for the people of Kunduz difficult by looting their property.
    The Mujahideen under Commander Abdul set fire to a tank and killed many soldiers on an ambush team near Alcheen Bridge outside the city of Kunduz.
    The enemy soldiers had laid an ambush against the Mujahideen, which was discovered and foiled.
 Samangan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank and killed some KHAD personnel in Aibak on May 24.
   Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured five enemy posts on Jawzak Mountain of the Koh-i-Safi on May 29 and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
    12 soldiers were killed and 11 captured. They seized 17 guns. One Mujahid was killed and seven were injured.
    Jawzak is located east of the city of Kabul, overlooking Kabul Airport. After rockets were fired into the airport, the Kabul regime set up security posts in the area to out-range the Mujahideen rockets.
    Koh-i-Safi is a sub-district of Bagram. This area overlooks the Bagram Air Base, the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway and the Kabul International Airport. For some years the area was used as a transportation route by the Mujahideen. The area provides shelter for the Mujahideen operating in the flat areas in Shemali and Kabul.
                                                                                Turn to page (7)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©

Wisdom of sages

                            Small injustice by the great leads to great injustice by the small
    It is related that Nowshirwan, being at a hunting lodge, was about to have some game dressed. As there was not any salt, a servant was sent to fetch some from a village. The monarch ordered him to pay for the salt, so that the exaction might not become a custom, and the village be empoverished.
    Nowshirwan was asked, "From this trifle,what injury can ensue?" He replied, "Oppression was brought into the world from small beginnings, to which each newcomer added, until it has reached its present enormity. If the monarch eats a single apple from a peasant's garden, the servants will pull up the tree by the roots: and if the sultan orders five eggs to be taken by force, his soldiers will spit a thousand fowls. The iniquitous tyrant endures not, but the curses of mankind rest on him for ever."
                            When animals are better than men
    I heard of a tax collector who stripped the houses of the subjects in order to fill the king's coffers, disregarding the maxim of the sages which says: "Whoever offends the Most High to gain the heart of a fellow-creature, God will make that very creature the instrument of his destruction."
    The burning flame from wild rue raises no such a smoke as is brought by the sighs of the afflicted heart. They say that the lion is the king of beasts, and the ass the meanest of animals, but the sages agree, that the ass who carries loads, is preferable to the lion, which destroys mankind.
    The poor ass, although devoid of understanding, nevertheless is very valuable on account of his burden-carrying. The laboring ox and the ass are better than men who injure their fellow creatures.
    The king, on hearing of the tax-collector's base conduct, ordered him onto the rack, and tortured him to death. You will not win the king's favor unless at the same time you strive to gain the hearts of his subjects. If you wish for God's bounty, do good unto his creatures.
    One whom he had oppressed passed by at the time of his execution, and said, "Not every one who possesses ministerial power and dignity can devour the property of men with impunity. One may swallow a sharp bone, but it will tear the belly when it sticks under the navel."
 Kabul cabinet
    The new cabinet of the Kabul regime is composed of 36 people, including the prime minister, deputy prime ministers and ministers.
    The regime claims that only 12 of the ministers are members of the PDPA and that the rest are non-party people.
    The key ministries of defense,
WAD (Secret Police), interior, information and foreign affairs have been given to the members of the PDPA.
The prime minister is Fazle Haq Khaliqyar, who has been awarded the title of the Hero of Afghanistan for his services to the Soviets and the regime, but who claims not to be a party man.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
                                                        .. ^ <jt oOJ
A cheap thing doesn’t lack defect, nor an expensive thing quality.
Meaning: You get what you pay for.
  Uwl Ji        Jm£ jl C >14
Vinegar that is free, is sweeter than honey.
Meaning: People love getting, something for nothing.
I uuxb jbljia Jo jS
Debt severs (is the scissors of) love.
Meaning: Lend money to a friend, and he'll become an enemy.
Where your heart goes there your feet will go.
Meaning: Home is where the heart is.
ipppp
off his face and say
lllllilll
iug, ”0 Allah! Forgife ray nation^ for
they have no knowledge.”;
  Terrorism endangers Jehad
     The assassination of important resistance figures and attacks on relief agencies working for the Afghan refugees are designed to weaken Jehad and defame the Mujahideen parties.
     Recently some resistance leaders have been assassinated by unknown men in Peshawar. Nasim Akhundzadah, a famous Mujahideen commander in Helmand and Prof. Khatibi from Jami'at Islami were among those killed.
     The assassinations are carried out by highly organized gangs. The fact that no assassins have been caught so far shows that they are not the work of ordinary criminals.
     There is a strong possibility that assassinations are carried out by agents of the Kabul regime. The regime has the organization, resources, trained manpower and experience to carry out highly organized terrorist actions. These actions serve the political aims of the Kabul regime. They create a law and order problem for Pakistan, and create anxiety and fear among the refugees. If not handled properly, terrorist actions could make some groups of the resistance suspicious about others, something that the regime is looking for.
     There is also the possibility of involvement of a communist faction outside the Kabul regime in the assassinations. The group, formerly called Shola-i-Javid, is active against the resistance inside and outside Afghanistan. Shola-i-Javid promoted a Chinese style communist revolution in Afghanistan. Now they seem interested in return of Zahir Shah. They do not hide their enmity towards the Islamist parties in the resistance. Members of this organiztions were responsible for killing of the renowned Jami'at commander in Balkh, Zabihullah, some years ago. A splinter group of the former Shola-i-Javid is called SAMA and its members call themselves 'independent Mujahideen'.
     Some power-hungry groups in the resistance might be also responsible for some of the violence.
     Attacks against Shelter Now International, a Western relief organization helping the refugees, and armed robberies directed against other relief organizations, are new developments.                               *
     Attacks on the relief organizations are designed by the enemies of Jehad to isolate the Mujahideen internationally and make life difficult for the refugees. Attacks on relief organizations, under any pretext, divert the attention of the international community from the just cause of Afghans. It makes the international relief organizations reluctant to help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     As Jami'at leaders have said, there were no problems between the refugees and relief organizations which cound not have been solved through negotiations between the Mujahideen organizations and officials of the relief bodies.
     Jami'at supported the AIG statement condemning the attack 'on relief organizations.
     Provocative acts by unidentified people against women's schools run by Mujahideen organizations is a; deplorable development. These actions bring a bad name to the resistance. It gives substance to regime propaganda that the Muajahideen are against eduction. There is no obvious reason for the threats against the feiriale refugee students. In these schools women observe an Islamic dress code and most of the subjects taught are Islamic science.
     Close cooperation between the Mujahideen organiztions and the security forces of‘Pakistan will prevent the attacks' success. Such cooperation has proved useful in the past and will help the security bodies of Pakistan tp identify terrorist elements and neutralize their actions.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page Q
 17, 000 refugees to perform Hajj
     More than 17,000 Afghan refugees living in Pakistan will go to Mecca to perform Hajj (pilgrimage) this year, the minister of Hajj of the AIG told MIDIA.
     Hajj is one of the five pillars of Islamic faith. An adult Muslim who has the financial means has to perform Hajj at least once in his life.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq said last year only 12,000 Afghan refugees visited Mecca. He said some other Afghans will be invited by the Saudi government and other Islamic organizations to perform Hajj, and are not included in the 17,000.
     The Pakistan Government will provide travel documents for Afghan Hajjis, who will bear their own expenses.
     They will fly to the Holy Land on special flights of Pakistan and Saudi Airlines. r
     The minister of Hajj said arrangements for their accommodation have been made by his ministry with the help of the Saudi Government.
     He said an AIG medical team will accompany the Afghan Hajjis.
     Some of the Hajis come from inside Afghanistan. For example, about 200 Hajjis from the Supervisory Council have reached Peshawar.
     Disputes between Iran and Saudi Arabia have kept the Afghan refugees living in Iran from performing Hajj. After the bloody incident of 1987 in Mecca involving Iranian Hajjis and Saudi security forces, Iran stopped sending Hajjis to Mecca. Afghans refugees living in Iran using Iranian travel documents and other facilities could not go either.
     Before the communist coup in Afghanistan, Afghans used to go to the Holy Land by air and road. More than 20,000 people performed Hajj each year.
     When the communists took power performing Hajj was discouraged, resulting in a considerable decrease in the number of Hajjis.
     It is not known how many Hajjis will go from Kabul to the Holy Land this year. Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, has asked Hajjis from the areas controlled by the regime \o work for the 'nation reconciliation' program by inviting Afghan refugees performing Hajj to return to their country.
AFGHANews Vol6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©
Terrorist actions aimed at
                                          resistance
     Afghanews conducted an exclusive interview with Prof. Burhanuddin              Rabbani,
 Jami'at Islami Afghanistan leader, on June 10,1990 about some of the problems the Mujahideen are facing. Here is the full text of the interview:
     Q. Some prominent figures of the resistance have been killed in Peshawar recently. Who are the killers and why do they do it?
     A. I think these killings are highly organized. This may be the work of the Kabul regime and Maoists. I do not rule out involvement of some groups, in some of the cases, who are eager to take power in Afghanistan by any means. Terrorists have intensified their actions while the Mujahideen have been working to hold elections and commanders discussing ways to intensify their military activities against the regime.
     It is an important time for our Jehad. Countries involved in the question of Afghanistan are trying to find a solution to the problem. The enemies of the Mujahideen want to give the impression that the Mujahideen are unable to bring peace to Afghanistan. They want to kill Afghans and put the blame on the Mujahideen themselves.
     These terrorist actions are also directed against Pakistan. They want to create law and order problems for Pakistan while the Kashmir issue is at the center of Islamabad’s attention and the situation in Sind is tense.
     Q. What should the Mujahideen and Pakistan government do to protect the innocent refugees?
     A. Provision of security for the refugees is the responsibility of the Pakistan government. The Afghan interim government can not create a parallel security organization to fight against terrorists.
     But the Mujahideen can help the security forces of Pakistan to identify suspicious individuals and groups who might be a security threat
     The Mujahideen's cooperation with the security forces of Pakistan in the past has resulted in the arrest of enemy agents. There is a need for close cooperation between Pakistan security organizations and the Mujahideen.
     Q. What is your opinion about the attacks on foreign relief organizations?
     A. The attack on Shelter Now International in the Kacha Gari Camp and inside Afghanistan was against the interests of the Mujahideen.
     If there is any problem concerning the work of the relief organizations it can be solved easily through negotiations with the officials of these.organi-zations. Such attacks will scare off the relief organizations whose work is vital for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     Q. A paper published in Saudi Arabia said you were against the commanders' meeting in Paktia. Is that true?
     A. I support any effort by the commanders to coordinate their military activities and escalate the war against the Kabul regime.
     Any effort separate from the Mujahideen parties and the interim government is harmful. It is not in the interest of Jehad for commanders to involve themselves in purely political activities at the expense of attention to military operations. .
     Q. What is your view about Hezb Island's (Hikmatyar) statement that it will not allow humanitarian assistance sent by the UN and AIG to enter Afghanistan?
     A. Hezb's stand is hostile towards the people of Afghanistan. Islam does not permits stopping food to reach the needy people.
     Hezb’s animosity toward the AIG is deplorable. The AIG is an organization comprising six parties. How can one be sincere to the unity of Afghans and at the same time declare war with the AIG?
     Q. What political steps will the AIG take to break the present stalemate?
     A. Elections are on the AIG’s agenda. Some prominent Afghan figures and Shia parties have been invited to come to Peshawar. They will discuss, with the AIG, ways of forming a broad-based goverment Hopefully they will agree on a formula for holding elections.
     A three-day meeting of Jami'at copimanders • and” reliirou^’; of Faryab l^ovihce began on May IS in AJmar sub-district, Cmdr, Aibab Hafiz tddHNA.;,,
     The meeting discussed ways of cwrdiriating the          bf
 teisfed; |t$;:Vi full::::: :;sug||0;-, • .to ' the Supfcrvis^^                        by
 Ahmad ShahMasotxL :       '
                                               mtm
     Radio Moscow has teimed the appointment of a militia commander
 good example Of:pb^|®fog be-
 |||en:;:-'; die     •• an|||||e: the
 Mujahideen.
                                               mtm
 ed m of the White House during
                                                                                                                                     ex
 press theifr a»ger at continued inter-
 ference by the Soviet tlniort in
     The demonstration was orga-
                                              m*m
     The Kabul regime has said dial if the Mujahideen stop Sri»g'lockets into the cities, theregime. :will stop nsing. -xiSCODt' missiles ijpafiist tbemJhe Mujahideen have rejected the offer;:; r
   . - III Ilf!|§|!|||| 11 • 11 II!!!!
     The name of the ruling party in Kabul will be changed from People’s Democratic Party of* Afghanistan to the Homeland Parly {Hezb-i-Watan). The party program will also be amended at the party congress, which is to be held soon. .
     A member of the regime parliament has                 holding of  a
 beiauty contest in Kabul by the ruling party's youth branctuifesaid the con test should not have been held in an Islamic country which is at war.
     Farid .Mazdak, a politburo member of the FDPA, has admitted that the recent peace initiatives by Najibuliab have failed to gam the support of the opposition, ifhe^isiljtia^ dvesJncInded. Iffring the cmiCTgenc^ and changes in the constitution. :
 attended military training classes and has taken part in military operations since his appointment to the new job.
     Azimi has earned a reputation for good treatment of the Mujahideen and the people. He is an honest man with a strong desire to support the common people. A friend describes him as a pious man who follows Islam Strictly. Despite his responsibilities, he finds time to study.
     With the help of different commit-. tees of the SC he has opened schools (for both boys and girls) and clinics. His main job is to provide security for ordinary people to enable them to have a normal life after long years of suffering. He. is assisted in his difficult job by his young and capable deputy Besmillah.
     Azimi was bom in Kasawa village of Kohistan District, Kapisa Province, in 1951. His father, Mohammad Musa, is a Tajik farmer.
 giuunu teas lit rvauui iur military,
 propaganda and intelligence operations.
      Azimi took an active part in the 1980 uprising in Kabul against the Soviet occupation, which was crushed by using force resulting in hundreds of deaths. The students, especially girls, played a major role in the uprising, which led to the arrest and torture of hundreds by the regime security forces. Azimi escaped arrest
      He migrated to Pakistan in 1981 and started to work as the deputy head of Jami'at's office for Kabul Province. After a short while in exile, Azimi returned to Afghanistan in 1983 to take active part in the resistance against the Soviet occupation. Until 1988 and his election to the deputy administrator post, he worked on the Council's political committee.
      Azimi is married and has six children. His family lives inside Afghanistan.
                 Japanese journalist contradicts reports of decreased fighting in Kandahar
      A Japanese woman reporter returning from Kandahar say $ she watched fighting around die city of Kandahar, which continued day and night, except during Eid.
      Keiko. Tomihari, who traveled to Kandahar with Jami'at, visited Arghandab and a front near the Mahbas (or prison).
      When she was visiting the front, two Mujahideen were killed, two Were maimed by a landmine explosion and several others were injured.          .
      "The Mujahideen made use of heavy, and light weapons against the communists and the regime troops fired only when they were attacked," she isaid.
      She said one side of the Mahbas of Kandahar is controlled by the Mujahideen and the other side Jby the regime troops. Landmines keep the two sides separated. When she was in Kandahar the Mujahideen were preparing to attack the airport.
      Keiko spent about one and half months in Kandahar. She has been in Paktia and Zabul as well.
      She said the reaction of people in Kandahar were generally favorable towards
 Zahir Shah. She saw pictures of the former king beside the pictures of Pir Gailani in the Mujahideen colters belonging to NTFA.
      She noticed the weakening of Hezb Island in Kandahar. In her last year's trip she saw Hezb commanders participating in meetings with other Mujahideen to discuss local problems. This year, other Mujahideen met without the participation of Hezb men. The image of Hezb declined further after assassination of Mullah Nasim Akhundzada, a famous Mujahideen commander in the neighboring Helmand province, in Peshawar nearly three months ago.
      The Japanese reporter said many refugee families were returning to the liberated areas with little fighting.
      The food; situation for the Mujahideen, compared to Paktia and Zabul, was not good, she said. One of the reasons for shortages could be presence of a large number of Mujahideen in fighting fronts in Kandahar, she added.
 Kabul were tightened. The Mujahideen fired dozens of rockets at regime installations during the Jirga sessions.
      In his speech to the Jirga, Najib proposed holding a referendum under UN supervision to determine whether the,people want a cease-fire. This proposal has been rejected by the Mujahideen.
      Najib told the Jirga that he had sent letters to the heads of the two super-powers, in which he had proposed several ways of solving the Afghan problem. He did not give any detail of his proposals.
      He praised the role of the UN Coordinator, Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, for his assistance to areas controlled by the regime. He thanked Saddruddin twice in one short speech.
      Najib also asked some former Afghan personalities now living in the West to return to Afghanistan and work for peace.
      Also on this occasion he shortened the sentences of some prisoners who had not been involved in anti-state activities. The young prisoners thus released will be sent immediately to serve in the army.
                                                                                              MiG-21 fighter crashes in Kabul
     A MiG-21 fighter aircraft crashed inside Kabul city, killing the pilot and injuring six civilians, the regime's radio station reported.
     The plane hit a five-story building in Microrayan area, damaging four apartment buildings. The crash set fire tp three cars and destroyed three others.
     The jet was returning from a bombing mission in Paghman. A Mujahideen commander has claimed he shot down the plane.
                      News
                      From page (2)
    Herat Province
    Commander Ismail Khan has reported fierce fighting between Mujahideen and regime forces in the districts of Ghoryan and Zindajan.
    A large number of government militiamen, supported by 150 tanks and armored cars, attacked villages controlled by the Mujahideen on May 25. The Mujahideen killed or wounded 50 enemy soldiers and destroyed three tanks.
 x Three Mujahideen were killed and nine were injured in the operation.
    Ismail Khan has also reported rocket attacks on government positions in different parts of Herat
    25 people were killed and dozens injured in Obe District when regime warplanes and artillery pounded villages controlled by the Mujahideen on May 20 and 21, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    Most of those killed and wounded were civilians. Bombardments also set on fire to the harvest and destroyed many houses.
    The enemy attack was in retaliation for a Mujahideen attack on a regime military post. In two days of fighting, 30 enemy soldiers were killed and one tank was destroyed.
    •The Mujahideen set fire to three regime oil tankers on the Herat-Toorghundi highway on May 21. The road connects Herat with the Soviet border and is used for transportation of supplies to the regime from the Soviet Union.
    Faryab Province
    In three incidents, 17 regime soldiers have been killed, 21 injured and 10 guns captured in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab.
    Nine soldiers were killed and 15 injured when a truck carrying them hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen in Juma Bazar, close to the city.
    Commander Alauddin has reported that when regime troops tried to take control of the intake of the Juma Bazar canal, the Mujahideen killed three soldiers and wounded six. They seized three light weapons.
    Commander Amir Choopan has reported that Ghulam Sakhi and two other soldiers defected to the Mujahideen after killing 4 soldiers. They brought with them eight guns.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page &
     Dear borhter!
      I receive regularly your very informative AfghaNews. I pass it to my brothers in Islam and after reading it, they now want to help your journal.  ;
      We have been shocked to leant about Hezb (Hikmayar) alliance with Mr. Tanai. Afghanews is true when it said that the coup against the Najib regime is a matter between two satanic groups, Khalq and Parcham, and that Mujahideen must take advantage of these situations.
      But we have learned from other sources that the coup by Mr. Tanai was planned and executed by Hikmatyar sympathizers in regime's army.
      After analyzing the two views we came to the conclusion that what AfghaNews said is more realistic. For if the coup had been successful Tanai's men would not have given all power to Hikmatyar. There will be some coalition
 between the Khalq faction and Hezb (which would be anti-Mamie )ror else a clash between Hezb and Khalq. Allah only knows what will happen.
      Dear brothers, the Jami'at position in the Jehad is good, no contacts with these Khalq and Parcham criminals. Power and honor comes from Allah. Wage Jihad righteously and well. Allah sees what is happening and He knows what to do.
      There is no unity amongst the Mujahid brothers of Afghanistan, and it is very sorrowful. There is also no unity amongst the world's Muslims. If there were unity, our Kashmiri, Palestinian, Eritrean, Filipino and Lebanese brothers would already have been victorious on all fronts. May Allah grant you, the Afghan Mujahideen, victory.
         Mohammad Rafick Port Louis - Mauritius .
 Masood opposed to Kabul regime participation in Afghan elections
     Following is an interview with Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood by the French News Agency correspondent in Islamabad.
     Q. What is your opinion about the recent meeting of field commanders in Paktia?
     A. We have felt the need to convene a field commanders' shura for some time. To that end we have worked together with commanders from other areas of the country. Convening the commanders council is neither an act against the interim government, nor a parallel proposal. We axe sine the leaders of the resistance parties will support our shura, which is the interest of our Muslim nation.
     Q. If elections are conducted under the supervision of the United Nations and the Organization of Islamic. Conference, what. would be your response to it?
     A. I do not disagree with the elections to be held under auspices of die United Nations, or the Organization of die Mamie Conference. We consider elections to be a sound method of setding the Afghan issue. But elections will be possible only when the People's Democratic Party steps down and an Interim Government trusted by the Afghan people takes its place.
     Q. Could you say something about your spring operations?
     A. We have the necessary manpower and experience to launch large-scale operations. We are in control of strategic areas which could be used to our advantage. But we are facing acute shortages of arms and ammunition. If this shortcoming is removed, God willing, our operations will start. .
     Q. What is your feeling on the murder of a French national?
      A. We condemn the murder of those serving the Afghan people and express our sorrow on the demise of diis French national. The persons responsible for this crime will be punished when they are caught. So far, we have no precise information on the motives behind the murder and the persons involved in it. We are far away from the scene of the murder.
      Q. Some of the relief organizations have decided to cut their aid to Badakhshan province. Please say something about this new situation.
      A. For several years the; people of Badakhshan have been faced with acute shortages of food. This year die people will have no better conditions because the draught still coninues. It is not a fair thing, in my opinion, to deprive needy people on account of the crime of a few miscreants. I hope all the humanitarian organizations will review their policy of cutting of assistance to Badakhshan province.
      Q. Recently a diplomat in the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad charged you with sending 2,000 pistols and 20,000 anti-Soviet night-letter pamphlets to Central Asian Republics in the USSR. Do you agree with this?
      A. The nationalities under the occupation of Soviet Russia are struggling for their liberation from the Russian yoke, and to decide their own destiny. The Russians are seeking a pretext to crush the resistance, therefore they spread rumors about the reason for the people's uprising.
      Frederic Galland, 27, a French medical aid worker belonging to Medecines Sans Frontieres (MSF) was killed by unidentified armed men in Badakhshan Province at the end of April.
      The French aid worker was working in Yaftal, outside the provincial captial, Faizabad.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 12, June 15,1990, page ©
    Children immunized
    More than 20,000 children have been immunized against fatal diseases by the Health Committee of the Supervisory Council in Takhar province.
    A source of the Health Committee said the mobile teams will continue to immunize the children in other parts of the North-East Zone.
    Since the beginning of the war immunization of children against measles, whooping cough and other fatal diseases had stopped, and this is the first attempt by the Mujahideen to protect the precious lives of children in the area.
    The source said the Committee also runs a program of children's and mothers' care, which includes provision of food assistance to pregnant women.
    The Committee is facing an uphill battle against diarrhea, TB, malaria and other fatal diseases. Besides provision of- preventive medicine, health teams instruct the people about the measures which they should take to protect themselves and their children from diseases.
 in Taliqan recently.
     The office, which will have the job of propagation of Islamic values and keeping people informed about the progress of Jehad, was opened by Eng. Mohammad Omar, the Deputy Governor of Takhar. Eng. Omar belongs to Harakat Inqlab Islami (Mohammadi group).
     Food prices doubled
     Prices of wheat, the staple food for Afghans, show a sharp increase in the north of Afghanistan.
     Here are the price sof wheat in some areas of the north:
     1- Maimana( Faryab Province)
        2000 Afs. per ser*
     2-  Other districts of Faryab 5000 Afs. per ser
     3-  Balkh 2000 Afs. per ser
     4-  Badakhshan1300 Afs. per ser
     5-  Keshm district 1000 Afs. per ser
     6-  Rustaq (Takhar) 1200 Afs. per ser
     7-  Kunduz 950 Afs. per ser
400 fighters trained                          The  War situation, lack Of rain and
                                                                                                                        insect pests are the main cause of soar-
     A group/of 400 Mujahideen received one month's military training to join the local regiments of the Supervisory Council's army.
     Lt. Colonel Abdul Baqi, the commander of training program of the Supervisory . Council, told Hindukush News Agency that the students were taught military tactics and use of different types of weapons in addition to receiving ideological and political training. A group of religious Ulamas and teachers of schools took part in teaching the young cadets.
     Abdul Baqi said the students took part in war games after completion of their training, which was highly successful.
 ing prices and shortages of food.
     ♦One ser is equal to 7 Kg.
    440 girls attend school
     The Education Committee of the SC runs six schools for girls in Taliqan city and Worsaj-Farkhar valley, Hindukush News Agency reported.
     A total of 440 girls attend these schools. They are taught by 10 female and six male teachers.
     An official of the SC Education committee said Taliqan school has 200 students, Khadijatul Kubra school in Mian Shahr, Worsaj, has 90 students . Martyr Nahid school in Mashtan valley has 30 students, Farkhar school has 90
     The students in the training course students and the school in Khanaqa, had come from Baghlan, Takhar, Worsaj has 40 students.
Kunduz and Faryab province.                     Most  of the above schools were
    During their training the students were shown video films Mujahideen activities in other parts of Afghanistan.
    The SC has regular training programs for its Mujahideen. Financial constraints dbes not allow large scale training programs to be carried out
   Guttural office opened
    A branch of the. Cultural Committee of the SC has been opened
                                                                                     Unemployment in Central Asia
    On 31 October 1989 Pravda gave unemployment statistics for 1986 for a number of Soviet republics: in Azerbaijan unemployment stood at 27.6%, in Turkmenia 18.8%, in Armenia 18.0% and in Kirghizia 16.3%. According to Pravda the total number of jobless in the Soviet Union is expected to reach 15-16 million by the year 2005. [Central Asia and Caucasus
 ChronicleVol.8No.6]
        opened at the start of the current aca-about demic year, which began on March 6.
                                                                                                  Terrorists kill Prof. Khatibi
     Mohammad Zahir Khatibi, 44, a prominent figure of Jami'at Islami, was killed by unknown gunmen in Peshawar on June 2.
     Khatibi was the chairman of the council of Laghman office of Jami'at and a professor at Jehad University.
     Before becoming a refugee in 1978, he taught as an associated professor at the faculty of Islamic Law of Kabul University. He had graduated from the same faculty .
     Khatibi joined the Islamic movement when he was a student of Najmul Madaris religious school in Jalalabad. He chose to go to a religious school because of his family background. His father, Mawlawi Mohammad Jan, was a religious scholar from Laghman, who led Friday prayers in the central mosque of that province.
     His murder surprised many who knew Khatibi. He was a soft-spoken person who had gained a reputation for good manners. Prof. Rabbani, the Jami'at leader, dereribed him as an angel in tire garb of a man.
     It is not clear who killed Khatibi and why, but the Jami'at leader called it an assassination harried out by die enemies of Jehad.
     Recently several prominent Afghans have been killed by unidentified men in Peshawar.
     Khatibi was buried In Rahman Baba graveyard outside Peshawar. Several hundred refugees participated in his burial ceremony. .
     A prayer meeting was held at Jami'at headquarters in Chamkani, outside Peshawar, on June 4. A large num-ber of Afghans including some leaders of resistance parties participated in the Meeting.
. V,
         US

                                                   (Please sendyour donations to the following account numSer:
              7ESHWD Account 735-37 (Habib (Bank.Ltd.
                                                        ‘Iehkgl ‘Bala, (Peshawar (Pakistan