 AFGHAN__NEWS _________s 5-3-1 9&5                                      r
                              KAPISA PROVINCE                     : ’
 Feb-6-1985
 A large- convoy of enemy f orce-s-enterecL KapJ.sa^-pr'ovinc-e^via^-Kb.uja.
 Beland and stationed themselves in the center. That night they, heavily mortared and ..shallgd the., surrounding areas.
 Feb-7-85
 At about 78 00 am- another large enemy convoy compri,sing~crf~diff er»nt kinds of vehicles including armotired tanks, attacked Kapisa provin*® via Sayyad village. The ground forces- were- supported by heavy air
 raids-..            ,                          _
 According to the report, Mujahideen of the area under Commander Sha» heen of Jamiat launched their counter-operation which lasted for 14 hours and resulted in the destruction of some enemy tanks- '"5:5 The report says that thV enemy forces eventually’withdrewfrorfr the
 t *T0 : « - •' #  •• • •• -
 fighting ground to a place where Mujahideen" had already ’planted* ah$i>»
 aft r.                                             * - - •
 tank and anti-personnel mines,'The report adds that this was on rela» tively higher ground from which the enemy forces Used to station and launch their operations. The report says that dub to mine explp^ions about 60 different kinds of military equipment; .including tanks and APEs -were destroyed and about 200 enemy soldiers were, killed. It,-waa also reported that a- helicopter was shot down-. . -
 Feb-9-85                                                    • "  " •' -
 In retaliation for their defeat, the enemy forces, launched troops from two areas of Kapisa province in a larger attack. The whole area from Abdullah Burj to Qalai-Safid was under heavy fire from the ground and air forces of the- enemy. Mujahideen under Commander Shaheen of Jamiat fought back for more than 7 hours and inflicted heavy losses* on the enemy. The report says that in this operation about fifthy different kinds of vehicles were destroyed. Mujahideen casualties have nit been reported yet.
                            TAKHAR PROVINCE Feb-12-85                    "         “
 Mujahideen of the city of Takhar province attacked an important strategic government post at street No. 6. After three hours of the fighting Mujahideen were able to capture alive 20 enemy soldiers, seize about 30 AK-^7s with ammunition and killed a government military officer named Abdul Afzal.
 Feb-17-85
 Ground forces of the enemy supported by air bombardments,attacked the areas'of Hazar Bagh of Khuja Ghoor district. The report says that more than 100 tanks and APCs participated in the operation whifh inflicted heavy losses on the civilians.
AFGHAN NEWS
                     , . f r No, 4        5-3-1985               P-15
According to the report Mujahideen fought for two days and were able to destroy five different kinds of vehicles.                .,  1
A group Commander? and two Mujahids were reportedly martyred:        The
casualty figures for Mujahideen and civilians have not been reported. ■                                                       •
                            BADAKHSHAN _ PRO VINCE
Jan. 13.85                                                             •
                   *•     "b    r • j ,   • ■  *   •  '    c. . V *“>  '
According to" a report from’ Keshia of Badakhshan the enemy forces attacked
       ■ /m,   c>  * ;’**«•■< .'S' •••";' . •   ■' "■ •. -T ** , "£ X
the areas" like. Mire an, Tawarzan,. Safidab, Sabzdara, Sahgati, Miahs-
                                , '•      / 7 *       .       ■ n
bar, Charmaghzdara and Darai* Jinr as a result of which, one hundred
poof houses were destroyed; 17 civilians martyred, 5 injiiS'ed-a’fid
dozens of->-livestocks ' decimated.* -The repoirf'adds"*tha*t~ a^MStHca-I-
Clinic. of K©.shm district is actively helping' wohrki,dd^-civi’ld-aiis i~ ■
According to the report, new.schools which have recently been“established- -by Mujahideen are “suffering from a*■shortage: of educational facilities such as books, pencils- and notebooks.
                             MAZAR PROVINCE         "
Feb-20-85                       """"
Mujahideen of Balkh city under Commander Sediq attacked a Khad office (Khad Intelligence Network) which resulted in the death of many Khad members. It is reported that Commander Sediq and one of his fighters were unfortunately martyred.
                                KUNAR PROVINCE
Feb-15-85
During an operation Mujahideen of Paroon valley attacked a government outpost and inflicted some minor losses on the enemy. Casualties on either side have, not yet been reported.
Feb-21-85
    mm mm m* mm mm mm
Mujahideen of Shingulak valley ambushed a Soviet convoy in which six
        v              y.  • ;
vehicles were destroyed, ^ AK-^7s captured and several enemy soldiers killed.
                                 BARIKOT
Feb-23-86
A series of enemy air raids on Docldan village of Barikot have been reported. An unconfirmed reportt.smysn. thBJz.se HcJAaopctariwhsr cslroii^dowh by Mujahideen.
 AFGHAN NEWS            No.  5           17-3-^ 1385           P-l6
                             P^JSHXR_ VALLEY '
  -1iV3-.8.5 .
 A political deputy of .the enemy forces along with 12 soldiers defected to Mujahideen of Dara. They brought a communication; set. with them.
 ^10^8-5^
       I       .                    i
 The report agjLd that from March, 10 till, now (March T^t, heavy fighting ..is      en,between Mujahideen r»f Chanral Varda, and the Russians. .
.Brr far. «ne. Mujahid has been martyred,,.
          ;: -•>; ■ Three tanks -and fivor--vehic.les were burnt by Mujahid.een of Tawakh (a vij-l^gn. be-twoen Rukh and Bazarak) .
           - • -
 Several enemy .soldiero were killed, during an operation, at Tawakh.
 The dead bodies of the enemy soldiers were flown out of the area.,, by tw;o helicopters.
 Jr3r^                                                                  h
 Two tanks and a vehicle were destroyed by anti-tank mines at Rukha.
 __6r3r85_;_ "  ■'
 A tank was blown up a.t Khanaiz (a village iieaafeer. Rukha) by an antitank mine planted- by Mujahideen.
 ^-2£»3>o&5.                 "■........-
 An enemy tank at Dashtak and another at Shaikhan of Rukha were destroyed by .Mujahideen,
                             KABUL PROVINCE
 3r3r^>_-_                             “                        ;;,.
 In retaliation to the execution by the government of Kabul Vahid and his friends, Mujahideen used explosives t« inflict heavy losses on the enemy at Mashin Khana near Pamir cinema in Kabul city.
                            MAZAR PROVINCE
 Reports show that after Commander Zabihulla1s .martyrdom, Mujahideen of Jamiat of .Mazar have been able to put an effective resistance against Karmal-Russian forces. It is reported that despite brutal intensification of war by the Russians, muslin freedom fighters have inflicted heavy losses on them. Morale is high among the people and Mujahideen.
 l8-£^&5
 Sixty one soldiers were killed or wounded by Mujahideen of Mazar. Sixty AK-h-Ys, one mortar and PK were seized by Mujahideen
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 5
17-3-1985
.P-J2.
 While returning from a 37 days operation at Zari, the. enemy forces were ambushed by Mujahideen from that area. The ambush resulted in the death of kO soldiers and the destruction of 3 vehicles and five tanks. One Mujahid was killed and two wounded.
 The report says that during operations lasting 37 days, Sufi Mohammad Amin, Commander of the western part of Mazar city, and fSLve Mujahideen were martyred.
 _l8-2:85_
 A high-ranking government military officer was executed by Mujahideen,
  13-2-85
 The report says that the area of Shoulgar has been bombarded by the enemy resulting in the death of many innocent civilians mostly children, old men and women. It is Reported that the enemy killed about, 30 of their own soldiers by mistake during this bombardment.
 The report says that Mujahideen shot down three helicopters.
 During an operation in two cities of Mazar, Commander Sediq an effe-ctive urban Commander was martyred, During this operation the deputy head and director of investigation of the Khad ( government intelligence network) were killed and four other wounded.
 _2-2-85;-,
 Mujahideen of the city of Mazar attacked Chatary government post at h p.ra, 8 AK-1)-7s were seized and 6 soldiers were captured.
 A Gaz-66 (Russian military truck) loaded with enemy soldiers was ambushed and' destroyed by Mujahideen of Mazar city. All soldiers were reportedly killed.
 ^16-1-85.
 Russian-Karmal forces launched a severe attack on Zari area of Sho-ulger district. Zari is one of the Mujahideen^; strongholds of Mazar (the strongest). The offensive lasted for 37 days which resulted in the death of about 200 enemy soldiers, 3 personnel carrier and seven tanks were destroyed.
 _23-11-85
 During an operation at Seh-j®i Mujahideen were able to destroy six different kinds of vehicles including 2 tanks.
  26-1-85.
 A Mujahid group'under Ghulam Sakhi was able to capture 8 members of the Fatherland Front and seized at least 9 Karabeen and. AX-47s«
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 5
17-3-1985
P-1.8
         - ......... ..... ......... ' .......... - ...
According to a report five Khad members were killed by Mujahideen in the city of Mazar.                                          ""
                 .. ....    22¥HM_2?2Y5!25
A series of operations have reportedly taken place in the province of Jouzjan by Mujahideen of Jamiat against enemy forces,
J.-T-85 ;
Mujahideen have attacked a Soviet outpost at Pashm Shoi village which resulted in the death of several soldiers and the capture of
17 militias,
Az\r&
Mujahideen of Aqcha ambushed a government convoy at Taimurak (between the Shiburghan and Mazar highway)„ About six different kinds of vehicles were destroyed,                                 -
                           ANDAPAB_DISTRICT
__2-3p85
Twenty five mil.itias along with’ their 23 pieces of weapons .joined. • Mujahideen‘of" ia&lat at Bajgah of Andarab (Baghlan. province).
                            HERAT_ PROVINCE                .... .
According to a. report Shourkhana government post has been captured by Mujahideen of Herat city.
The same report adds that the enemy forces bombarded the areaas of Shourkhana village (one Km off the city)in a retaliatory operation as /a result of which at least 45 civilians were martyred.
 AFGHAN NEWS
 No,
 31-3-1985
 P-19
 March-23-1985.            '
 A -large, Soviet convoy including 82 trucks loaded with aeroplane bombs was destroyed at Clang village (two-three km South of Salang tunnel). Mujahideen had ..planted a time bpmb. in. one of the trucks which was carrying explosivesc
                                s’Y ■ ■■
 This explosion was planned in a large parking place where Soviet convoy used to park at night or launch their offensive from. Large Soviet supply convoys do not us\ of"'fakr*'o¥J I^ujahiSeen ambushes.
 Soviet supply convoys do not usually move after three p.m because
 The report says that in the first step 82 trucks along with some oil-tankers were destroyed.
 The i^p<nit-'mantdlons ;that..theuexplo-sion.vrasul.tsd.ein-therutieatrueiEion. of about 280 vehicles including tanks and APCs, It also caused the death of about 120 DRA, 280 Soviet soldiers, 9 Soviet families and 8 high-ranking officers who were preparing for the Salang offensive.
 Four local Salang houses were destroyed and the highway was closed.
 The. report considers the explosion: unprecedented.
                                          PANJSHtR VALLEY
 According to, a report Soviet forces have used new kinds of mines in their recent attacks on Chemal Warda of Rukha.
 No details have yet been.given.
 March-8-85
 In an operation by Mujahideen of Panjshir at Rukha, a Russian high-ranking military officer, who has been involved in all 1984 Panjshir operations was killed along with a number of enemy soldiers. In this operation four araoured tanks were also reportedly destroyed. The deaid body of the officer was flown back to Khuja Rawash (Kabul Airport) and then to Soviet Russia.'       .
 March-15-8-5*                                *
 In retaliation to the above-mentioned operation, the Russians attacked Chemal Wardra.'The: fighting which lasted for five days resulted in the beath of about. 60 enemy soldiers. A further number were injured, The report says. that one Mujahid was martyred and some others wounded-.
                               TAKH^^ PRO VINCE Feb_14-Karch-6-85                                           : 1
 A- series of operations have taken place in different areas of Takhar province. In one of these which was launched in Taleqan city by Mujahideen of Jamiat and which lasted for ten hours, at least 2 tanks and some other fighting trucks were destroyed. Sixenemy soldiers were killed and four wounded
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 6
31-3-^1985
P-20
 Next day (6th. March) in a retaliatory operation, enemy forces
 bombarded poor housesand killed many civilians mostly children , old
 men and women«.               '-v •
                      .''-P'- ■ MAZAH^PROVINCE '
 Feb-20-85 ,,        ‘ ’-Vm ■■■,.:■ • . ■!r,-,-T,.
 — —— — — — — — ''Vj*. ‘              1 i ■!■ 0;J , .                  ■ -i .w
 A Russian convoy was ambus he tl by '■■Mujahideen o'f ^azaf "At' Ghog,^ village on the Balkh highway. The ambush-resulted in the destruction of vehicles-:and the capture of construction equipment.
 March-4-85 .                       ''    '              v,,    „
 —                                                      - • -o6LT .po
 Another Russian convey was ambushed on the road between Jouzjan and Balkh which resulted in the death of 15 enemy soldie-p£.,.t?1© dest—- ' 'ruction of about 2 tanks and two trucks, ••••!      ~-,c,....
JOUZJAN PROVINCE
 ..March-15-§5               ,                                c   D- .;,'
 In order to.capture Mujahideen, the enemy forces surrounded Khamab
                                                              •*“ "• *• C-vl.
 sUb-distruct and launched a house to house search operation.
 According to the report Mujahideen of the area jointly attacked the enemy.and inflieted heavy casualties on them. It is reported that 12 enemy soldiers were killed, two tanks destroyed and a considerable 'amount of arms and ammunition captured.
 "fhree" Mujahideen wereymartyred;ian<i„afc vleast-./^is.ferayhded.' ,
                                       FARYAB_PROVIMQE
     MFaryab is situated in the extreme North-west part of Afghani— „ is tan bor^pf^ji^ ..Soviet Russia. It takes at least 35 days to recieve news from there, Mujahideen backed and staunchly sup— ported by the civiliansare controlling most of the areas of ' fthe-'provincey The e&emyj'forces are just limited'to-the -center ;'ri.of the city which is not more than 5 Km* '
     "Mujahideen have been, able to neutralize the enemy, on th® ground ' but., still they.-are threatened by Soviet air raids. The govern, ent troops supported, by Soviet forces are mostly conf- . :_..fined to their posts or outposts, ■'
 ''Fe-b-21:85-                                        ...
 One of the government posts which has been the:strongest base<of the enemy forces in the District of Andkhoy, was attacked by Mujahideen of Jamiat under Commander Ebadulish. In an hour long operation Mujahideen were able to capture at least 80 different pieces of heavy and light weapons and kill more than hO enbmy soldiers including some high-ranking Communist officers.                           1 '
 Next morning, the report says, the civilians helped Mujahideen to capture, other covering outposts.
                                       PANJSHIR VALLEY
 March-15-85
 While planting mines, Engineering Unit Commander of Abdara of Fanj-shir who had been on duty at Salang ,was martyred, due to the explosion of a mine which he was planting.
   AFGHAN NEWS             No.  6       31-3-1985            P-31
   March-l^-85
   While planting_mine, Khan Mohammad, Commander of mobile group .©he , of Shaba of the Panjshir was martyred. During his five years of effective service in the mobile group, he had bean promoted tb a mobile group commander.
   Another Engineering unit, group Commander of Shaba Mujahideen base Haneef, was also martyred in the same incident,
   March-19-85
   Mohammad, famous in Bullai, Engineering Unit group oommander of Chemal Warda Mujahideen base along with a Mujahid named,Azizur-ahtnan were martyred while clearing Radio Controlled Device (RCD) mines. The Russians had planted RCD mines in their recent attacks in Chemal Warda. This is the first time that the Russians have used such a mines.
   March;19;85
   Zabit Nasser another Engineering unit Commander of Manjawoor base of Panjshir was martyred by an anti-personnel mine planted by the enemy.