IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
               POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                   VOL. Ill, NO. 3, 1/2/1987..,
                                            PUPPETS* OFFER REJECTED
 January 17 vas witness to a great gathering of Afghan Refugees and Mujahideen in Peshawar. In this historic meeting more than 100,000 Afghans took part to listen to the I decision of their leaders.
 The Puppet regime had announced a six months ceasefire and national reconciliation program. Resistance leaders wanted to inform the public about their answer to the ' puppets' proposals.
                                                          *
 The meeting took place after a three days long meeting of the high council of the Alliance in which the issue was studied thoroughly.
 After speeches delivered by all the seven leaders. Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the current spokesman of the Alliance, read the resolution of the high council of the Alliance.
 Alliance rejected the ceasefire as a ploy by the Soviets to deceive the world public opinion and rejected the so called reconciliation program oFthe puppet regime. The resolution said that the puppet regime does not have the right credentials to talk about ceasefire and reconciliation. There are two sides in the conflict. Mujahideen and the Soviets. Mujahideen are ready to talk only with the Soviets about withdrawal of their troops
 The idea of coalition government of the Mujahideen with the puppets was rejected on the grounds that puppets were criminals, they must be tried not to be given chance to decide the destiny of our Nation.
 According to the resolution. Mujahideen will continue their struggle as long as the Soviet forces are in Afghanistan.
 The high council of the Alliance has appointed a committee to formulate ways of forming an interim government which should control Afghanistan, just after the Soviets leave and pave the ground for national election.
 The council also has appointed a judicial committee to look into the existing problems between the Mujahideen parties and give its verdict which will be honored by all.
 The rally proved one point that refugees are fully aware of the designs of the enemy and will not be deceived by propaganda launched by the Soviets and their puppets. They know the need for continuation of struggle until total victory. Although they love to return to their country, they do it when they see their country free and have the right to decide their future.
 This meeting disappointed Soviets and all its surrogates who were preaching that refugees are tired, they will not wail for their leaders and leave for Afghanistan.
 Mujahideen rejected the ceasefire both in theory and in practice. From all the reports reaching us it becomes clear that Mujahideen have continued to harass the enemy in different parts of Afghanistan. The Soviet and Puppet radios who had abandoned their abusive language against Mujahideen after their announcement of their unilateral
RFQHRN HEUS UOL. Ill, HO.3,    1/2/  1967    PAGE  2
ceasefire have resumed it gain. The world public opinion also was not impressed by the late propaganda. They look forward to see if Soviets agree to withdraw their forces completely in a short period of lime. Now the ball is in the court of the Soviets. They have to give a practical eiample of their propaganda campaign.
As far as the resistance is concerned it wants to see Afghanistan free and its people with the right for self-determination. If it comes through a peaceful process of negotiation that is good, but if the enemy refuses that natural right of our people we do not have any other option except to continue our armed struggle even if it means more suffering for our people, something we do not like Almighty Allah Says:
FIGHTING IS PRESCRIBED FOR YOU. AND YE DISLIKE IT. BUT IT IS POSSIBLE THAT YE DISLIKE A THING WHICH IS GOOD FOR YOU AND THAT YE LOVE A THING WHICH IS BAD FOR YOU. BUT GOD KNOWETH, AND YE KNOW NOT. [S II. 216]
                                    NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                   REPORT FROM MAZAR-E-SHARIF
 January 15,1987. To defy the ceasefire announced by the puppets. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Sholgar garrison. 5 tanks and 3 APCs of Soviet and their puppets were destroyed and 50 Soviet and puppet troops were killed and wounded.
 The enemy retreated from Sholgar district. 10 Mujahideen were martyred and 7 others wounded
 January 15. 1987 Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked enemy posts in Halqa Jar and Bodana Qala of Sholgar district with BM-1 and RPG-7. One enemy tank was destroyed and 30 persons killed and wounded
 30/12/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy supply convoy and captured 3 trucks which were carrying wheat and sugar from the border to Kabul. The trucks belonged to AFSOTER ( a Soviet-Puppet transporting company )
 January 10, 1987. Mazar-Sheberghan road was mined by Mujahideen in Faizabad subdistrict. An enemy tank hit the mine and took fire. 23 soldiers (puppets) were killed and vounded Two Mujahideen were martyred as a result of enemy retaliatory fire
                                         PERWAN PROVINCE
 15/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Soviet base of Qala-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Saiang valley with heavy weapons. 85 vehicles including oil-tankers, trucks, APCs and tanks took fire and an approximate number of 120 Soviet soldiers were killed and
RFQHRN HEUS UOL.lll, HO.3, 1/2/ 1907 PHGE 3
wounded
13/1/1987 Mujahideen from Jami'at launched a co-ordinated attack against the enemy in Charikar (the provincial capital of Perwan province about 50 Km. North of Kabul), Matak (at the mouth of Ghorband valley about 10 Km. from Charikar), Jabulseraj ( at the mouth of Salang valley about 25 Km from Charikar) and Gulbahar ( at the mouth of Panjshir valley about 10 Km. from Jabulseraj). In Jabulseraj 12 Militias were captured along with 13 guns. In the rest of the places mentioned, enemy suffered heavy casualties but no details are available.
                                            KABUL PROVINCE
 7/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Dr. Khan Agha attacked an enemy convoy in Shakar Dara district. Six tanks and 4 trucks were destroyed and an approximate number of 24 enemy soldiers killed and wounded. The report does not give any figures for the casualties of the Mujahideen.
                                        REPORT FROM PANJSHIR
 15/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked the enemy bases in Bazarak, Rukha and Anawa with BM-12 and other heavy weapons for three successive days, The enemy suffered heavy losses but the details are not available yet.
 12/1/1987 Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy in Malaspa ( a village in Bazarak) as a result of which one tank and two trucks of the puppets were destroyed and 10 soldiers killed                                     -
 12/1/1987. Mujahideen from Tawakh ( a village about 15 Km. inside the main Panjshir valley) attacked the Soviet base in Anawa with heavy weapon. The enemy suffered heavy casualties but so far no details are available
 7/1/1987. The enemy jets heavily bombed Panjshir for one week from 7 to 14 January. There are no figures given for the casualties of the Mujahideen but due to the absence of the civilian population and presence of natural and artificial bomb shelters these bombardments do not cause a lot of casualties.
                                          BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 Nehrin district was totally freed when the new-established garrison of the enemy evacuated the area on January 10. It should be noted that Nehrin garrison was captured by the Mujahideen on 13 / 11 /1986. which was re-established three days later. That captured garrison was manned by about 250 men some of whom were killed, about 100 captured and the rest managed to escape. Earlier Afghan News had given a provisional number of 450 which should be corrected with the new confirmed number of 250.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
 January 15,1987. Mujahideen attacked the second security belt around Herat city near Rubbat-e-Qoloq, Herat Hotel and Cheery Two tanks and two APCs and two trucks were destroyed. Four Soviet and eleven puppet troops were killed. Two Mujahideen were martyred and one other injured during the operation
 January 19,1987. Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Islam Qala highway just outside the city One jeep, two trucks and 3 APCs were hit and destroyed. An estimated number of 17 enemy soldiers were killed and wounded. Two Mujahideen were
 martyred.
                 January 21, 1987. Mujahideen attacked the enemy inside Herat city. One tank and one
AFGHAN HEUS UOL.III, HD.3, 1/2/ 1967 PAGE 1
motorbike were destroyed. No figures for the casualties of the enemy were given.
                                            KANDAHAR
9/1/1987. According to a report by Kandahar office of Jami'at, Mujahideen from different districts of Kandahar attacked enemy posts in Malajat. Mujahideen first heavily pounded the enemy position with BM-12 rockets and 82mm recoilless rifles and then about 200 Mujahideen stormed the posts and captured them. Several tanks and trucks were destroyed. Enemy casualties are reported to be high but no specific numbers are given in the report. 12 Mujahideen were martyred and some others wounded.
Kandahar has been the witness of severe fighting in the last few months. Mujahideen < are bravely resisting the enemy attempts to expand its control zone.
15/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at under command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked the -Army Corps headquarters with BM-12 rockets. Enemy suffered heavy casualties and some vehicles were set on fire.
16/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked enemy position in Arghandab district. 3 trucks were destroyed and 12 enemy soldiers were killed and wounded
17/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked the district headquarters in Arghandab. 7 enemy soldiers were killed and wounded. Mujahideen captured some ammunition.
Mujahideen also attacked Kandahar division with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties, th? number of which were not immediately known ,t
                     COUNCIL OF THE NORTH REJECTED THE PUPPETS CEASEFIRE AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
According to a report sent by the Council of the North, representatives of Jami'at Fronts from Badakhshan , Takhar, Baghlan, Qunduz, Perwan, Kapisa, Mazar-i-Sharif aadPaghman (Kabul) held a three day meeting from Januaiy 17 to 19 in the North to discuss the puppets ceasefire and so-called national reconciliation program.
In this historic meeting the subject was studied thoroughly and finally they supported the stand of the Alliance and rejected the ceasefire and the so-called national reconciliation program of the regime.
It was decided that similar meetings should be held in different provinces in which UlamaX Islamic Scholars), eiders and Mujahideen participate. In these meetings the enemy evil designs under the guise of ceasefire and national reconciliation program will be exposed the support of the participitants will be sought for decision of the Alliance.
The meeting also approved a special military and political program to make Mujahideen able to deal with the new situation. However the details of the program are not
disclosed
                                THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
Prof. Sayyaf, the leader of Islamic Alliance for Liberation of Afghanistan, was elected as the current spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan from January 20th for a period of three months,
BFGHRH NEUS U0L.I11, HO,3, 11/2/ t96? PAGE 5
He is taking the office in a politically sensitive time. He has in front of him the task of consolidating the unity among the resistance, both politically and militarily, to be able to cope with the new political developments.
He will lead a seven member delegation of the Mujahideen leaders to O.I.C. summit in Kuwait.
We wish him every success in his great but difficult job,
                                A POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN BADAKHSHAN
Badakhshan, one of the most strategic provinces, neighbouring Soviet Russia, has for eight years been a scene of fighting between Mujahideen and Soviet-Kabul forces. Situated at the extreme North-Eastern part of the country, it has six districts and six * sub-districts. It is mountainous with deep valleys favourable for fighting. Majority of the people are persian speaking Tajiks.
                                                                     i
Militarily speaking Keshm, Darwaz, Yaftal, Wardooj, Darahim, Khash, Teshkan, Argu, ' Yumgan and Jurm are the most significant base areas with relatively effective commanders. No doubt all these Jami'at commanders were fighting against the enemy but with less co-operation among themselves
Recently in the late autumn 1986, commanders of Jami’at in Badakhshan have taken a positive step, organizing their scattered and relatively disorganized groups in one larger council called "Shora-i-Jabahat-e-Badakhshan, (The Council of Badakhshan
Fronts).
Commander Arianpoor from Keshm was elected as the head of the Council, commander Basir of Yaftai as his deputy and commander Najmuddin' from Wardooj as the commander of Jurm and Yumgan.
This council has to help Mujahideen in solving their political problems, organizing their military activities and co-ordinating their actions against the Soviets.
Civilians welcomed the establishment of the council since it will, no doubt, try to create an atmosphere in which civilians will be helped and protected.
It is worth mentioning that commander Arianpoor, the head of the council, has been effectively active in the organizational work in the North He is also a member of the Supervisory Council of the North. His mobile groups have participated in the victory over Farkhar and Nehrin government garrisons captured by Mujahideen in 1986. He is respected and loved by the people in Keshm and other areas in the North.
                                        RABBANI RETURNED FROM IRAN
Prof. B Rabbani, leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, returned to Peshawar after
paying an official visit to Iran.
Prof Rabbani met Iran foreign minister and other high ranking officials and discussed with them the problems of mutual interest. Talks took place in an atmosphere of friendship and mutual understanding. Leaders of Iran assured Rabbani of their continous support for the resistance. Prof. Rabbani called the meeting with the Irani officials useful. He bad several meeting with refugees in Tehran and some towns bordering Afghanistan
Prof Rabbani described to the Afghan Refugees the political situation in Afghanistan, the Soviet motives behind the so-called ceasefire and national reconciliation by the
puppets.
HFGHflH HEIIS UOL.il I, HO.3,        1/2/   196?     PAGE  6
 The Refugees shoved their determination to continue their struggle till total freedom of Afghanistan is achieved.
 During the Professor’s stay, Jamhory Islami Daily' made an interview with him which was published on December 30,19 86. The paper went against all journalistic norms in distorting the interview, especially the points concerning the Alliance delegation's trip to America’, to fit the anti-American climate in Iran.
 jami’at-e-Islami office in Tehran protested to the paper by sending a letter to the editor. We think it is the work of some hidden trouble makers who want to create misunderstanding between the people of Afghanistan and Iran.
 Once again we clearify our position that our political steps in serving our Islamic cause are calculated moves which are decided in the light of Islamic principles and the interest of the people of Afghanistan. The American trip by Prof. Rabbani was decided on the above principles. It was a normal political step which every sound person felt was needed. The paper have every right not to agree with our views but changing the. contents of an interview is an immoral act to commit. We will continue to do what we think would serve our cause within the laws of Allah.
                                     PROTEST AGAINST OCCUPATION
 A 43 years old man from Rotterdam of Holland by the name of N de Oude set ablaze a Soviet-car in front of the Soviet Embassy in Haague to protest the 7th sad anniversary of the occupation of Afghanistan.
 Oude is the writer of a book about his trip to Afghanistan which took place two years ago. When asked about the purpose of burning the car he said, "I set it on fire out of protest against already seven years lasting reign of terror by the Soviets in Afghanistan”.
 He was arrested by the police and spent four days in jail . He will face trial soon, His reaction about his trial was, “I don't care to be punished for this deed, as I think that the aim of action was achieved, namely get publicity for the Afghan cause’’.
 The same man already had protested against Soviet occupation by illustration on his car by means of wooden painted panels depicting scenes of the war in Afghanistan He got a lot of publicity for that loo.
 It should be added that support for the Afghan cause is growing amongst the Dutch people. On 27th December a big rally was held to protest the seventh anniversary of the occupation of Afghanistan in which besides Afghans and Netherlander a great number of Turks and Morocans living there had taken part,
                                         EXCHANGE OF PRISONERS
 January 7, 1987, Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mazar-e-Sharif exchanged a Soviet prisoner with eleven Mujahideen who were serving prison terms in the puppet Jails.
                            SOVIETS MUST HAVE BEEN DISAPPOINTED
According to Mujahideen sources the puppet regime launched a campaign in the government departments to sell, to the officials, the idea of the ceasefire and reconciliation program. Almost all the officials were demanding the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan
                 This fact was confirmed by the journalists who were airlifted from Moscow to Kabul to
RFGHHtl HEUS UOL.III, HO.3,     1/2/   1M?    PAGE  7
 report the beginning of the unilateral ceasefire announced by the regime. The report sent by these reporters talks about the peoples' eagerness in the Soviet controlled cities to see the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
 These anti-Soviet feelings in the areas under their occupation, the staunch armed resistance all over Afghanistan and unpopularity of the Soviet invasion outside Afghanistan, must have disappointed the Soviets, who expected to sell their colonial war under the cover of friendly co-operation. Contrary to what some people thought the time was not in favor of the Soviet aggressor. The heroic resistance of Afghan people and awareness of the world about the Soviet designs foiled their plans far an easy victory in Afghanistan,
 Soviets must leave or expect higher military and political price for their imperialistic adventure.                                                                    «
                                  SHORTAGES OF FODDER FOR ANIMALS
 According to an informed source from the Ministry of Commerce of the puppet regime, that ministry has ordered purchase of 10,000 tons of fodder for animals. Due to the war situation, burning of crops and lack of rain not only there are food shortages for people but also shortages of fodder for animals.
 Due to this shortage the quality of Qaraqul sheep skin, an import-export element, has gone down and customers are losing interest in buying them.
 The source added that dry fruit forms the main export item of the regime to the Soviet Union. The quality of fruit has lowered due to the war situation and Soviets buy Afghan fruits at low prices in exchange for Soviet made items which are sold at high prices.
                                ISLAM, THE BEDROCK OF THE RESISTANCE
 When we see that all the resistance party names end with word "Islam", every single individual in the resistance demands an Islamic republic in the free Afghanistan; it proves that role that Islam plays an important part in the private and public life of Afghans.
 Islam, as a way of life of all Afghans (except a small, minority of Siekhs), is an important factor in unifying the whole Afghan people in their struggle and in giving them direction in their life.
 Having all that in mind one can understand the purpose of Soviets' and their puppets' propaganda in favour of Islam. To give this propaganda practical dimension, they white-wash the mosques, pay salary for Imams( Islamic scholars who lead the prayer in the mosque) and let some people to go to perform Haj(pilgrimage to Mecca), recite holy Quran on the state-controlled radio, paying visit to the mosques by the party leaders . All that is to disarm the resistance from its ideological weapon and finally defeat it. These are fore-doomed efforts. Soviets applied these tactics against resistance fighters in occupied Central Asia and want to repeat them here. The situation is totally different: The resistance in Afghanistan is not an aimless-struggle and a reaction out of frustration. It is based on firm ideologic basis with political economic and social messages which are demanded by every Afghan.
 This reality has forced the followers of Marx and Lenin to hide their enemity towards religion and even try to show that they support religious freedom for the masses. But it is too late for them in Afghanistan Seven years of the war has educated everyone in Afghanistan and they can differenciate between real and fake.
 World awareness as a result of Mujahideen struggle is high enough and Soviets are not only facing opposition inside Afghanistan but the majority of the people of the world
fifOHHH HE US UOL.III, NO.9, 1/2/ 1967 MWE 0
who say "No to aggression" are supporting their just cause - the demand ofthe people of Afghanistan for an Islamic government is a reality which can not be denied.
The end to the conflict, something that Soviets are promising, comes only when this just and natural demand of the people of this country is met through the excercise of the right for self-determination.
Any alternative, other than Islamic regime or half way measures, can not satisfy people and will not end the conflict. Islam is the bedrock of the resistance. Islamic government in a totally free Afghanistan is the first and last political slogan of the resistance.
Afghan resistance sent a delegation to Summit meeting which started on January 26 in Kuwait. The delegation was headed by Prof. Sayyaf the current spokesman of the Alliance.
0.1 C has passed many resolutions in the past asking for the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan and restoration of Islamic status of that country, all of which have been ignored by the Soviets. The membership of the puppet regime in the conference is posponed and the resistance has only observer status in that organization.
The Resistance has tried to be accepted as the full member of O.I.C but so far due to the presence of pro-Soviet countries like S.Yemen, Libya. Syria, and P.L.O it has not been successful. The Summit meeting may repeat the past resolutions. To except a more active stand on Afghanistan issue seems un realistic
Iran's absence, new propaganda offensive launched by the Soviets which has provided more ammunition for the pro-Soviet elements in the conference and the big list of the issues on the agenda ail are the factors working against the resistance.
<
OIC SUMMIT AND AFGHAN ISSUE
  | IN THE NAME OP ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
AFGHANIS
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                    VOL. Ill, NO. 4, 15/2/1987.
                                            A PARALLEL IN HISTORY
 Najib's unilateral ceasefire and reconciliation offer undoubtedly received some^ attention throughout the world A look at the mass media in the western countries shows that most comments -were in favour of the Mujahideen's standpoints; i.e. the rejection of Najib's offer as a foul play instigated by the Soviets, and that struggle ■will continue until the last soldier has left Afghan soil.                 ^
 However, this was not an unanimous reaction. Some of the editors in the western press who in the past have supported the Afghan cause are now slipping from their principles.
 They seem to have swallowed Najib's words, that the responsibility for further bloodshed will now be upon the shoulders of those who don't accept the ceasefire. To them the prospect of peace at any cost seems to be overshadowing everything else, and they don't ask themselves the most essential question: Peace for whom? To them it is obviously not important whether it will become a pax Sovietca; i.e. peace on Soviet conditions or a peace in accordance with the will of the Afghan people.
 It might be worthwile to remind these doubters in the western media of their own history, how the principles were upheld when they or rather their fathers fought their last big war against aggressive and powerful antagonist
 In the iporning of May 10, 1940, the Belgian and Dutch ambassador* in Berlin were informed by Ribbentrop, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Hitler regime, that German troops were entering their countries to protect their neutrality against an imminent attack by the Anglo-French armies. A German.ultimatum called upon the two governments to see to it that no resistance was offered. If it were, all responsibility for the bloodshed would "be borne exclusively by the Royal Belgian and the Royal Netherlands Government".
 Of course the Belgian and Dutch government decided to fight, and of course the resistance movements in both countries fought on during the five years which lasted until the liberation finally came.
 In the light of history the righteusness of these actions are evident in the European mind. So evident that not one of these editors, who today are unable to recognize the principal issue as regards to Afghanistan, for a second would dare to put the responsibility of the bloodshed in Holland and Belgium during the war on the shoulders of these patriots who fought against the foreign invader for the freedom of their countries.
 History continued and just a few months after the attack in the west, the Germans had occupied Holland. Belgium and France. The British expeditionary force had after a crushing defeat managed to escape over the Channel at Dunkirk. Hitler had once again proved the overwhelming superiority of his armies, and now only Britain remained of his adversaries.
 At this moment Hiltler offered Britain peace. In a speech in the German Reich stage (Parliament) July 19.1940, he said: "I can see no reason why this war must go on". He further declared, that he had no intention of bringing any harm to Britain nor to the British Empire. He only wanted a free hand at the European continent; i, e. to keep the
WOHRH HEUS WOL.III, WM, 15/2/ 198? PAGE 2
 countries and areas which his armies had occupied.
 The peace offer was handed over to the British Government through different diplomatic channels. Among others the king of neutral Sweden urged Britain to accept a peace settlement. Winston Churchill, the British Prime Minister, answered in a letter:
 "... Before any such requests or proposals could even be considered, it would be necessary that effective guarantees by deeds, not words, should be forthcoming from Germany which would ensure the restoration of the free and independent life of Czechoslovakia, Poland, Norway, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, and above all, France,. “.
 Churchill may not have been keen on national independence for the people in the Third World, who were under British rule, but in Europe 1940 when his own skin was in danger he easily understood what certain people don't understand today; namely, that # there can be no peace with the aggressor until aggression has stopped, troops are withdrawn and status quo ante bellum restored
 The same is valid for Afghanistan today - no peace until aggression has ceased, Soviet troops are out and the national independance of Afghanistan re-established,
 What Hitler actually said was. that he wanted to keep all what he had taken, but he
 didn't want to continue to fight for it.
 The Soviets are worse Through military means they have been able to occupy only 10 percent of Afghanistan, and now they say: "We want the rest too, but we don't want to fight for it Let's make a political deal"
 It is a pity that some editors in the west can't see through this Soviet shrewdness. It a pity for the Afghans who have lost a few friends from the past. It is however an even greater pity for those people in the west, who are under the threatening shadow of the Soviet Union
                                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS

                                           KABUL PROVINCE
 28/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'atin Jegdalek area of Soroobi district, shot down a SU-25 enemy Jet At 4:15 pm six enemy jets were bombing the village in the area, one enemy jet was hit and crushed in the village of "Sapar"
                                          K A PIS A PROVINCE
 17/1/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Bagram airbase with heavy weapons. It is believed that the enemy suffered heavy losses. A ammunition dump was hit and 3
 helicopters were damaged.
flFGHRN NEUS ','QL III, NO. 4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 3
                            BA DA KHSHAN PROVINCE
    A late report from Wardooj valley of Badakhshan province, sent by commander Najmuddin. says that Mujahideen under his command are facing great financial difficulties. Since March of last year, he has lost 86 men in the battle. The families of these people are in desperate need of help.
    It is added in the report that due to difficult terrain sending reports on a monthly basis is very difficult,
    The Commander give the details of the three following operations:
    16/10/1986. Four tanks and four trucks of the enemy were ambushed and destroyed in upper part of Wardooj valley between Sofian and Teergaran villages All the occupants of the mentioned vehicles were killed, the number of which is not given in the report* One Mujahid was martyred and 3 others wounded
    6/12/1986. Mujahideen killed 25 persons from the combined Soviet-Puppet forces in Oshkan village in the lower part of Wardooj valley
    13/12/1987. An enemy helicopter! type not mentioned) was hit with DShK fire and crushed in a village in the lower part of the valley about 8 Km from Baharak Soviet base. All the occupants of the mentioned helicopter were killed and Mujahideen captured five guns.
    Wardooj is a narrow valley which connects Eshkashem town on the Soviet border to Baharak and Faizabad. This valley has been the scene of heavy clashes between Mujahideen and communists (Soviet and puppets) in the past eight years.
    Najmuddin is the commander of the valley Soviets have a base in Baharak sub-district in the lower part of the valley another in the upper and in Zaibak sub-district. They also have a strong post in the middle of the 50 Km long valley
                                HERAT PROVINCE
    5/2/1987 Three army trucks which were carrying more than 100 soldiers and militias were ambushed in Sobol wa Rozanak about 45 Km East of Islam Qala (a town on the Iran border) The soldiers surrendered along with their wejyjons and the trucks were set on
    fire
    2/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jami at attacked enemy posts along the border with Iran. 23 soldiers were killed. 14 wounded and 31 captured. Mujahideen siezed more than 40 guns.
    Three Mujahideen were martyred and 14 others wounded
    4/2/1987 Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Pushtoon Zarghoon district about 70 Km East of Herat city. Five enemy soldiers were killed and three captured with 4 Ak-
    47s.
    Two Mujahideen were martyred and one other wounded
                                     PANJSHIR
 | 5/2/19S7.According to a report sent by Commnader Masood, Soviets heavily bombed the i positions of the Mujahideen around the puppet garrison in Pushghoor. The report adds ! that sparodic fighting has continued in the valley since the announcement of the ceasefire by the puppet regime. No more detail is given
                             NANGARHAR PROVINCE
    Mujahideen from Jami at have carried out a series of ground-to-ground rocket attacks
HFBHFM NEWS YCL HI, NO.4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 4
against the enemy positions around the Ghaziabad farm in the past four -weeks. The enemy has suffered casualties but no exact figures are available.
                                             KUNAR PROVINCE
Mujahideen from Jami at have launched 3 rocket attacks against the enemy positions in the past 30 days. One tank and one truck were destroyed when they hit the land mines planted by the Mujahideen
                                 REPLAY OF THE PROPAGANDA FILM
Kabul TV received a lot of letters which requested the replay of the propaganda film called "The Revolution never Dies". Puppets and their Soviet advisors were very happy « and agreed to replay the film.
The propaganda film which was prepared by the Soviets, told of the Soviet version of the conflict in Afghanistan The poeple who were sending letters to the TV had another* reason for their request, something totally different from what the communist had perceived. They wanted to see once again the faces of some of commanders of the Mujahideen about whom they had heard of but had not had the opportunity to see their pictures. By writing some beautiful words, they fooled the communists and achieved what they wanted.
                                      FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
It was a cold day in November of 1981. The enemy garrison in the town of RukhatPanjhsir valley) was sealed off from all direction by the Mujahideen
Enemy jets and helicopters bombed the village around the garrison People moved to the narrow side valley to avoid air-strikes, but the frustrated enemy was deliberately bombing the villages
A bomb, dropped from MI-24 helicopter, hit a house in the village of Piawosht, 9 people were buried under the debris of the mud house. Mujahideen rushed to the scene and
tried to rescue the possible survivors
Rescue work was interrupted by low flying enemy helicopters After six hours of hard work, 8 bodies, two men. four women and two children were recovered. All those who were martyred belonged to the same family The only surviver was a 6 month old boy who was unhurt laying beside his dead mother, father and grandmother.
The child was taken to Kabul to be taken care of by his relatives, Now he is a 6 year old boy who plays war games and asks his grandfather, "where are the Soviets? I will fight them." Perhaps he wants to take the revenge of his family from the Soviet murderers.
                                        CEASEFIRE IGNORED
Now that one month has passed since the announcement of ceasefire by the puppet regime we clearly see that it was not observed, neither by the Mujahideen, nor by the puppets and Soviets themselves who had announced it.
In the first few days, the regime tried to relax the search missions in the cities, decrease the curfew hours and the number of troops from the streets to show to the invited foreign journalists that they are in full control of the situation.
After the rejection of the puppets' offer by the Alliance, military activities against the Soviets and their puppets increased. Reports reaching from all parts of Afghanistan confirms that the ceasefire announced by the puppets was violated, the puppets have admitted this themselves.
flRSHRN NEWS WOL.III, HO.4, 15/2/ 190? PAGE 5
 Fightings in Herat. Kandahar and Nangarhar has continued. Bomb explosion and rocket firing in Kabul has taken place. A big convoy was attacked in Qaaiai-i-Surkh in Jabalseraj and set on fire. Jets and helicopters have been shot dovn and several key figures of the National Fatherland Front were assassinated and finally the Soviets and their puppets launched offensives in Paktia and Kandahar and ridiculed their own ceasefire. Violation of the Pakistani space by the Soviet airforce and the sabotage activities against civilian targets inside Pakistan has continued.
 A big meeting of the commanders of Badakhshan, Perwan, Kapisa. Takhar, Baghlan, Kundoz, Mazar and Paghman took place in the North They supported the position of the Alliance on ceasefire and rejected the puppets ceasefire and their so-called National
 Reconciliation program.
 The Soviet-dictated ceasefire was rejected by the Mujahideen and was broken by the Soviet and their puppets.
 Now is the middle of the Afghan winter and military activities in this time of the year are usually low After the announcement of the ceasefire the level of the fighting has increased considerably.
 Another sign of increased activities is the influx of refugees to the neighbouring countries Contrary to what the enemy says a lot of people made use of a short relaxation on check points to take their families out. All this is dis-appointing for the Soviets and their puppets who were thinking of massive return of refugees and desertion of Mujahideen
 All of this proves that
  People of Afghanistan are more aware of enemy designs.
 -They want the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
 -There is no room for co-excistence with the communists who have created so much trouble for the country
 -The only acceptable solution is establishment of an Islamic government with a non-
 aligned policy.
 -All half way solutions will complicate the situation more and do not lead to peace.
 L_
 It must have been a good opportunity for the Soviets to guage the popularity of their puppets, they must have reached the conclusion that peace can not come in the presence of the their forces which is the only positive element for the survival of the
RFGHRH NEWS UCL III, NO. +, 15/2/' 190? PflOE 6
communist regime. Nov they have to decide one of two things: Either leave Afghanistan for Afghans and withdraw their forces or continue their colonial war against the people of Afghanistan by paying the military and political cost of it
                             SERVING COLONIAL POLICY OF THE SOVIETS
The sudden increase of tension on Indo-Pak border was the act of Rajiv Without any reason that country massed a lot of troops along the borders and forced Pakistan to take defensive measures.
This irresponsible act of Rajiv can be part of his collaboration with the Soviets to put pressure on Pakistan just before the Geneva talks on Afghanistan which will start at the end of November. Domestic problems could also be a reason for this artificial crises
Mass movement of civilians from the Indian side of border in occupied Kashmir was a deliberate policy of increasing the tension with real no ground for such action.
It is very amazing to see that a big country like India can be used as a Soviet pawn in its colonial war
                                 HUMAN FACE OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
                                              By KMukMb Sid digue
During my visit to Peshawar late in December 1986, the Afghan Mujahideen's biggest movement known as Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, which^is fighting in Panjshir, Badakhshan, Herat and other regions, placed its facilities at my disposal Within a very short time I covered a lot of ground and collected considerable material for my forthcoming book.
I interviewed Engineer Es'haq, the chief Political Officer of Jami'at. Two of his brothers have been martyred in the resistance against the Soviets. A third brother is a mawlavi or teacher of Islamic Law to the Afghans. Engr Es'haq turned out to be an extremely intelligent man, brilliant in his understanding and exposition of Soviet moves, the tribal system, the Pakistani situation, future possibilities, the role of women and many other subject
The Mujahideen, thinking that because I am from America and must be soft' wanted me to stay in a hotel. But I insisted that I do not stay in hotels when I can stay with Muslims. As a second best, they put their most posh building at my disposal, a place donated by some Arab supporters from where they publish a magazine about the Jehad
Near peshawar. I was able to visit a caravan of refugees from Wardak in Afghanistan which had come in only the day before These people were owners of small pieces of land in Wardak, self-subsisting farmers The Russians had bombed them, destroyed their homes, and killed their livestock. They made clear to me that they have no desire to be in Pakistan; they have come because they do not have any choice.
Late at night I visited and interviewed some tough Mujahideen commanders who had just come in from Afghanistan for a short stay Among them was Commander Abdul Aziz from the Shamali region, which stretches 10-70 kilometers north of Kabul. With the help of various other groups, his forces recently captured the Nehrin garrison from the forces of the puppet Kabul regime. People like AbduJ Aziz have changed the indisciplined, carefree people of Afghanistan into trained Mujahideen who can obey orders and can conduct protracted guerrilla warfare against a Superpower
The location of the place where the commanders were staying was secret. The administrative and command center of Prof. Rabbani which I visited next had very tight security. Prof. Rabbani himself was visiting Africa at that time, but I was able to
HFDHRH NEWS VOL III, NO 4, 15/2/ 199? PAGE 7
 talk to the people who administer, supply, organise, and direct a large'section of the Mujahideen and refugees populations. Among the two most eloquent people here were Br. Sayyid Kamel and Br Saifuddin (My interpreter during my entire stay in Peshawar was a 24-year old Tajik who knows English, Farsi and Pushtu )
 ! told the Mujahideen about the American Muslims who want to go to Afghanistan to fight the Soviets His response was that the Mujahideen have enough manpower; what they need are boots, jackets, clothes, sleeping bags, blankets and medicines use for surgical purposes, or money to buy all these.
 The Mujahideen are probably the biggest Islamic movement in the Sunni Muslim tradition. They have a clear perspective on Islam and, inshallah, will not be deterred from their Islamic objectives
                       SITUATION IN KHAHAN A DISTRICT OF BADAKHSHAN
 Kh&han neighbouring Soviet Russia, is a sub-district of Bad&khshan lies on the extreme North of the country. Panj River divided this district from the USSR. The Russians, have built a military base and an airport just on the opposite side of the river in a place called Yal. The Russians have also built a 300 meter foot bridge over the Panj River, connecting Soviet-land and Badakhshan
 Khahan is divided into these parts which consists of about seven main villages such as Sangab, Parkham. Numazpast, Houze Shah, Saildan, Ghouzan and Koof. Population of Khahan is about 12 thousand families of which 400 stay under government control. It takes four days on foot to reach the city of Faizabad, about 24 days to come to Peshawar from there.
 ENEMY POSITION:
 The Russians have two main bases with about 22 security posts. The first base is stationed at the center of the district and the other one is in the Koof area. The total number of the enemy forces are about 450 In addition to this number there are two Russian platoons The enemy has also built a small airport for mainly logistics purposes
                  Gul Mohammad who has been for six months head of government intelligent network
 (Khad) explained:
 Two Russians work at district administration levels. One leads the operations against Mujahideen and the other controls the whole intelligence network; Felex, 35. of Ukraenian origin was in charge of military activities and Aleek, (The man could not spell it) of Russian origin, from Azar Bayjan. was in charge of intelligence". "We did not have any communication set to contact the city but a year ago they brought a set which enabled us to communicate directly with the capital of Badakhshan The contact person m the city was called Jalil." Gul Mohammad Said; "The Russians have trained initially six agents and in turn these agents trained another 160 people,
 The trained agents were collecting information from the local population and submitted it to the first six agents. Enemy agents get a salary according to their work. It ranges from 600 Afs to 6000 Afs "The local Afghan agents provide information to the Russians every week."
 The tactics used by the enemy are more or less the same as in other parts of Badakhshan , long-range artillery and infiltration.
 POSITION OF THE MUJAHIDEEN:
 The number of armed Mujahideen is more than 500. All are armed with captured assault rifles. (AK-47). They are all from Jami at. The tactics of the Mujahideen are mostly attacking security posts, ambushing and infiltration the enemy forces to defeat them,
AFGHAN NEWS VOL III, NO.+, 15/2/ 190? PAGE ©
   ECONOMIC SITU A TI ON:
   The people were poor and since the war started they have become progressively poorer. They have limited fields for cultivation. "Poverty would be the most dangerous menace which will result in horrible starvation if we do not reach them." Haider Khan the representative said.
   MEDICAL SITUATION:
   There are two paramedics trained for three months in Peshawar. They don't have enough medicines "We have brought two more out for medical training", Haider added.
   SOCIAL SITUATION:                                                  ,
   'There is a relatively acceptable system of Judiciary run by Mujahideen. Mujahideen also introduced a better war administration than two years ago." About 250 people have become displaced from the area and just two families from Khahan live in Peshawar. »
                              ISLAMIC CONFERENCE IN KHARTOUM
                                                  »
   A two day international conference was held in Khartoum on 2nd and 3rd Feb The conference was inaugurated by Sayyid Sadiq Al-Mahdi. the prime minister of Sudan discussed the ways and means of "Establishing an Islamic Order" Prof B. Rabbani, leader of JamLat Islami Afghanistan participated in the conference A large number scholars from different parts of the world participated in the conference The conference was organized and financed by Islamic Council which is a London based organization
     LONG LIFE AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
                                    HOW MUCH SHOULD THEY SUFFER
    Lebanon is full of problems. Foreign invasion and civil has caused a lot of sufferings for its people The tragedy of Plastinian Refugees is more painful than all. One day they are massacred by the pro-Israeli militias and the next day by pro-Syrian forces Nobody can forget Ihe massacres of refugee camps of Sabra and Shatila.
    Attack on the refugee camps by Ammal militias have gone on for several months now. What is very painful is the great sufferings of civilian population in these refugee camps Recent reports shows that as a result of the siege of the Ammal militia forces refugee camps are facing shortages of food and medicine. According to eyewitness reports the people have started to eat cats and dogs to survive.
    It is a very tragic event to see that this is done at the hand of those who call themselves S  musiims and Arabs. This is done to the people who have been forced out of their
|  homeland by Israelis and suffered too much in life. We hope that this shameful
j  situation will come to an end soon by allowing essential commodities to reach thousands
!  of women, children and old men who are innocent.The silence of the Muslim world
    over this tragic situation is shameful. We are not in a position to help them but our s  sympathy is with them and we will not forget them in our prayers.