     AFGHAN: .NEWS          No. 18     11-11-1985              P-57
                       A^^TIffi^SOVIETS _CIVXLIZED ?
        For the Soviets and their allies this question is irritating.
     For the majority of the people even those who oppose the Soviets political way of thinking, the answer is a positive one. But the facts in Afghanistan refute this accepted view.
        In our country there are about 200,000 Soviet citizens (military and non-military personnel) and we watch them in combat and ordinary life. Ve have witnessed the following facts from Soviet citizenss
     -They steal from Afghans and even their own government on a large scale.
     —They desecrate mosques, shrines and religous books.
     -They burn houses, shops and other buildings.
     -They kill cattle for target practice and for fun.
     -They cut limbs from animals to eat without killing them first.
    • -They defecate.on furniture inside the house,
    . -They mix different types of food together to make it unuseable,
     -They kill innocent. civilians and sejB; their bodies on fire.
     -They throw chemicals on the faces of dead bodies to make them unrecognizable.                                              ; .r ..
    *-Tfiey plant-mihes and boby-traps in houses and farms. The main t • victims of these are the children.
     *They cut fruit trees fox’ fuel. They bomb irrigation channels leaving the trees to die’.                                         ' '
     -They take off doors, windows, and beams to use as fire.wood.
    , -Where their soldiers camp, they foul the area Several months after
     they have lefl/ there is still a bad odour.
        The question can be repeated now in a slightly different way.
     Can we call a person who does these things a civilized man 7 »
     The Soviets are claiming that they have built a society based on high moral standardsj but what they are doing in Afghanistan reveals their true nature.
                                  N E- V S
27-10-85
HERAT PROVINCE --------------
     In a series of attacks against enemy posts in Ghoryan and Koksan districts of Herat province, the Mujahideen have been able to kill 250 of the puppet regimes militias. During these operation Soviet-DRA forces surrounded the city of -^erat with a large number of APCs and tanks. They carried out..a house ±0 house search of the city.
     Many of the civilians had taken refugee in the city's big mosque. Several rocket and artillery shells of the enemy hit the mosque as a result of which ^0 people were killed and 80 others wounded. The minarets of the moque were also hit and destroyed. Xt should- be mentioned here that the mosque of Herat is one of the most historical
                                   * -
     mosques of Afghanistan.
   AFGHAN NEWS _ ■ -      go . 1 8       I1                   F-58^___
   Radio Kabul is blaming..the.. Mujahideen - for this uncivilized action. 3G-10-05                               . ..
   Mujahideen of Jamiat in Gulran District which is located in the N.W of Herat .province, attacked puppet regime positinos. They killed 5 Communist officers including Ali Mohammad the Commander of the Border Regiment of the puppet regime and captured the following weapons j
   1- ZPU ......One.
   2- Mortars ....Two--                                          • .      a
   3- AX-47s ......five
   They also captured some food.
                             BADGKIS PROVINCE 17-9-85 ■:               — — — —         -
   Mujahideen from Jamlat attacked the enemy post in Qalai Naw and killed 13 communists..They also captured 8 AK-47s and one heavy maehinfigun. belonging to the enemy forces. In another attack whi#h
    '.... :jr. ;
   took place on the same day. Mujahideen killed 7 the enemy sold-iaiSS'oand captured 7 different types of guns.
   25-9-85_
   Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked enw?positions in Qadas -district $f Badghis province. They captured one officer of the if ckl government with four other communists along with k AX-47s , 2 Grih^ve machine guns and some ammunition. The report adds that on the sane day,Muja-, hideen, attacked an enemy convoy which was en route to Qades, On* tank was destroyed and 3 trucks were captured. These trucks were loaded with food. An unknown number of the enemy soldiers were killed or wounded.
                              BAGHIAN PROVINCE “ " “
   The Soviets launched an air and ground attack against the Mujahideen in Nahrin district. Fourty Jets and helicopters took part in the bombardment and landing of troops. After six hours of heavy fighting they left the area. A large number of houses were damaged and two women and one man were killed during the operation.
                                                                          %
   8-10-85
   In an ambush in Nahrin district Mujahideen of Jamiat killed two important members of the Khad and puppet regime militia.
                             NANGARHAR PROVINCE 17^10-85                                ------
   Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a government post in Kama district.
   Two puppets were killed and one wounded.
   22-10-85
   - —                         i
   Mujahideen from Jamiat in Kama district attacked the government post Fighting continued for three houvs. Enemy planes attacked Mujahideen positions.
AFGHAN NEWS
So 18
11-11-1985
.5-59
                                    2
   One enemy soldier was killed and others captured. One Mujahid was wounded during the operation.
   17-10-85
   Mujahideen of Jamiat in co-operation, with Mujahideen from other parties attacked the militia posts of Lalpoor sub-district. Fighting continued for five hours. Three militias were, killed and two others wounded. One Mujahid was injured, during this operation.
   17-10-85
   Mujahideen attacked enemy militias who had set an ambush against refugees in Kama district, two enemy soldiers were, wounded and one killed. Mujahideen captured one single-fire rocket launcher.
   21-10-85
   Mujahideen of Jamiat in Ghosta district clashed, with the puppo-t-regime' s militias. Two militias were wounded. The Mujahideen puf-fered no casualties.
   29-IO-85
   Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces in .thd Garo area of Goshta district. Fighting continued for several hours. Enemy planes pounded the.’ suspected Mujahideen positions* The Mujahideen loot one man and three of them were wounded. Some shops in the area wore sot on fireby the enemy,
                             WARDAK PROVINCE 28-10-85                   ---------
   Mujahideen from Jamiat in Sayed Abad district attacked ah enemy convoy on the Kabul-Kandahar highway. One APC was destroyed and six . people including Captain Zulmai were among those who wore killed. Three soldiers were captured by the Mujahideen, but were released on the orders of the local judge. In this operation Mujahideen captured 9 AK-A7s and one PK-nachinagun,
   The same convoy was also ambushed, by Karakat Mujahideen, Two trucks were, set on fire knd one ZPU-2 with one truck were captured. Mujahideen of Mahaz attacked the came convoy in Haft-Asia area of Sayed Abad as .a result of which three trucks full of food, wore- cap- -tured by Mujahideen.
                           SOyiET_DIRTT_GAME
   Mujahideen sources have found that the Soviats-havo a hand behind drug trafficking. The Khad has boon .given the job . of. organizing • cells which would smuggle hashish and heroin through Pakiotah and ■ Irani to the western markets. The Soviets have..given permission to grow opium and hashish in the occupied areas of Afghanistan. Militia bands in the WestoScuth, South-East and. East border areas of Afghanistan have, a free-hand in this business.
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 1 8
985   ____ _p-6o
   It seeas that the Soviets do this for the following reasonss
   1 - To defame the Pakistan and Iranian governments who are sympathetic to the cause of Afghan people.
   2- To get hard cash which is.omucluneeded,
   3- To create problems for western societies..
   4- To defame the Afghan resistanne by waging propaganda that the Mujahideen are involved, in the drug business. .
   It should be mentioned here that the Mujahideen's organized fronts are using every means to fight against the drug business and drug use.. Growing opium and hashish is forbidden in' the liberated areas controlled by this front. The use of drugs and the buying or selling of it is punishable under Islamic, law.
                             HI G^R_EDUCATION_FOR_AFGHAN_ STUDENT
   After the Communist Coup of 1978* education in Afghanistan faced real problems. After the Soviet invasion the whole system collapsed. For the people of Afghanistan the first priority became the defence of their country.                                                  —
   As the war continues and no immediate solution is in sight, the question of the education of the Afghan children must be raised.
   There are some primary level schools and the Mujahideen themselves are running others, but the problem of higher education remains unsolved. Thousands of university and high school students left school and joined the resistance. The resistance feels that these people should continue their studies to be able to serve the Jehad better. But the possiblities are very small , The number of Afghan student who attend higher education institutions around the world each year does not exceed two hundred.
   On the other hand the Soviets are sending tens of thousands of people to the Soviet Union and Eastern block countries each year to study. This •• development put the resistance in a bad position and could be very dangerous for the future of the Afghan nation.
   We believe that muslira, third world countries and those around the world who are opposed to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan should pay attention to this problem. They should have a quota to admit Afghan students each year. This form of humanitarian aid does not create many problems.
   It is the duty of the coalition of Afghan Mujahideen to raise the issue with friendly countries and try to find a reasonable solution.
     AFGHAN NEWS            No. 19        23-11-1985           P-i6i
                  WHO_IS_WTOraNG^TIiE^RUSSO-^GHAN__WAR
       Any battle.-is fought with the aim to win. The purpose of each side is to defeat the enemy.
       In trhe case of the Sovie.t-Afghan war the Soviet Union as a super power is trying to defeat the people of Afghanistan.
       If they win a conpaign here and there, it can not be counted as a victory. Destroying a mud-house , killing a donkey and setting a harvest on fire, with their sophisticated weapons is neither bravery nor success. It is cowardness of a modern type, which causes embarrassment and frustration.
       If they loose a compaign it is shaming. A nation vzith a few primitive weapons is shooting down SU-25 Jets, MI-24 Helicopters and destroying T-62 and T-72 modern tanks. For the Soviet Union as a super power the achievement is not something to boast about, while their defeat is very embarrassing. They are loosing in both cases.
       It is the Afghan who is winning. If he is killed he will be a martyr whom people respect and if he kills he is a champion and can be proud. This is all because the Soviets are not fighting for a just cause, they are aggressors and the end of any aggression is embarrassment and. frustration.
                       ANDIiHOY DISTRICT (FARYAB PROVINCE)
       1.0-8-85 ■
       Soviet-DRA forces besieged villages of Khane Charbagh sub-district. There were about 150 enemy tanks and APCs, aerial cover was provided by 8 helicopters. The Mujahideen resisted well and under cover of darkness broke the enemy lines and retreated safely. The Mujahideen killed six soldiers and captured 2 AX-Ujs and destroyed two tanks.
       The Mujahideen ambushed a group of militia in Khane Charbagh subdistrict and killed 15 of them and captured 5 others, 18 AX-47s and 2 RDP machineguns were captured by the Mujahideen.
       The enemy retaliated with aerial and artillery bombardipents of the area which caused’the; deathof 20 innocent civilians. Four Mujahids were also killed during the operation.
       8-10-85_
       The enemy attacked the position of the Mujahideen in Khane Charbagh district and tried to besiege it with a large force. Mujahideen clashed with them, killed some soldiers and destroyed 3 armoured cars Three Mujahids were injured , On the same day the DRA forces attacked the Mujahideen villages. Fighting took place between the two sides. More than 10 soldiers were killed . One Mujahid was martyred. The enemy bombed the villages heavily as a result of which 15 civilians were martyred.
   AFGHAN NS¥S_ __________________„__„„3-1=985____________  _F-62_
                             PAHJSKIR VALLEY
   2^:10i§3                     “
   Mujahidean of Shutul attacked an eneny convoy in Salang. Fourty oil-tankers* 28 trucks full of ammunition* two tanks and one APC were destroyed and a large number of the enemy men were killed,
   2^10-85
   Mujabideen from Manjawoor (a village of Bazarak) attacked an enemy post. Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed and 5 others captured. Mujahideen captured 11 guns. One Mujahid was killed during the operation. Four trucks and tanks were destroyed and 60 enemy soldiers were killed.
   2-11-85
   Four Soviet soldiers were killed when Mujahideen of Chemal Warda (a side valley in Rukha) attacked them Fourteen enemy soldiers were killed by Dschk fire when a group of enemy soldiers wanted to attack Mujahideen positions in Tawakh,
   29-10-85
   Mujahideen ambushed an invading unit of the enemy forces in Bazarak and killed 50 of them* The enemy was planning an attack against the Mujahideen. On the same day* Mujahideen of Astana (a village of Bazarak) captured 11 armed DRA soldiers. Seven soldiers.iere killed when they entered a mine field planted by Mujahideen. Two tank-' were destroyed by land mines in Malaspa (a village of Bazarak).
  • 30-10-85 .
   Eight enemy soldiers were killed by Mujahideen in Tawakh (a village in the lower part of the Panj shir valley) and a tank was destroyed.
   I- 11-85
   As the result of Mujahideen firing heavy weapons* h- trucks and one tank were set on fire in Jangalak (a village of Bazarak). On the same day Mujahideen from Anawa and Banian Xoor ambushed an enemy convoy which was coming from Gulbahar to Anawa.
   5z11:85 .
   Mujahideen of Chemal Warda attacked the enemy post which is located
                                                 *
   in the big mosque of Rukha and destroyed it. Ho figure for enemy casualties has been given. It should be noted that the Commander of this part of the Panjshir is a young man named Gul Haider who has one artificial leg. He takes part in all the action and is the last person to retreat from the battle ground.
                           NANGARHAR PROVINCE
   II- H-85
   Soviet—DRA forces attacked Mohmand Dara area. The enemy forces composed of about 300 different types of tanks* APCs and trucks. Two APCs were destroyed and 86 soldiers were killed and wounded. Three Mujahids were martyred and 7 others wounded.
     AFGHAN_NE¥S____. _1 9___________„_„ j~ 3 -J J jJ 9»5_  __ £x#3__
                       U.N_DEBATE_A_BIG_VICTORY
     The United Nation General Assembly passed a resolution which, called for the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan. The resolution was passed by 122 in favour which is a record for the past 6 years.
     The only weak point of the resolution was the absence of the Soviet Union's name as the foreign intervening force.
     We believe that no natter how soft the wording of the resolution was, the Soviets will reject it as they have done during the past 6 years. On the other hand a soft resolution will not put enough pressure on the Soviets to revise their policies in Afghanistan.
     What the Soviets are doing in Afghanistan is not a minor mistake.
     They are busy destroying a country and ruining a culture. They deserve to be called aggressors and this is the name they have gained throught their actions.
     If we do not name the Soviets as invaders they take it as a sign of weakness and try to exploit it . The peace-loving and free world*people is expected to be bold, honest and just in all its decisions. Every body including the Soviets themselves know that they are invaders. Let us call then by their true names.
                         A _TWO __ PRONGED _PO LI'CY
     While the Soviets final aim is the pacification of Afghanistan,their tactics vary from time to time.
     Mujahideen sources have found that, now the Soviets are working on a two pronged policy against the Mujahideen,,
     1- They want to establish garrisons at district and aub-district level. From there, they will carry on their political and military work in
     the countryside.
     2- They wants to disturbs the logistic lines of the Mujahideen. They will do this by direct military or subversive means.
     They have started their works in these two directions and it is expected that after the winter their activities will intensify^
                         BIG_TALhS_AND_THE_RSALITIES
     There is a great deal of publicity concerning foreign aid for the Mujahideen. Some papers talk of several hundred million Dollars worth of arms being sent to them . But facts on the ground show that there is no change in the quality of weapons which the Mujahideen are using and there is still a shortage not only of arms but ammunition as well. On the other hand the Soviets are introducing new weapons and pouring ing in more troops.
'.-cy
-/1
 AFGHAN _NEWS          _No._1_9______ Ez§it 
 The Mujahideen development is not proportional to the Soviet policy for an escalation of the var. As time passes the gap is. increasing, When we compare the big talk: with the reality inside our country, we find that, the great difference between the talk. strait real.'ap±Aon - causes increasing frustration. What we need is lees talk and more action. While more talk and less action serves the cause of our ehemy the Soviets,.