 Vol 5, No 13                                                July 1, 1989
US, Soviet Union to resume talks on Afghanistan
                   Jami'at leader sympathizes with Bulgarian Turks
      The Jami'at leader has called the expulsion of a large number ethnic Turks from Bulgaria an inhuman practice of a dictatorial state and has asked for imposition of world-wide sanctions against that country.
      Prof. Rabbani told Afghanews that ill-treatment of Muslims in Bulgaria was a violation of human rights and a continuation of Stalinist policies in a communist country.
      He said that in dictatorial states like Bulgaria there is no religious and cultural freedom for people.
      Prof. Rabbani called on the UN, non-aligned countries and the OIC to impose economic and political sanctions on Bulgaria for the expulsion of thousand Muslims from their homes.
      He added that Islamic countries have a special responsibility regarding this tragedy.
     The president of the State of Palestine, Yasser Arafat, discussed with Pakistan leaders ways of ending the Afghan conflict peacefully, when he arrived for a one-day visit to Islamabad on June 24.
     He held a short meeting with Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the foreign minister of the interim government of the Mujahideen. During this’ meeting Arafat showed his desire to help in bringing peace to Afghanistan. Arafat called the war between the Mujahideen and the communist regime conflict between two brothers.
     Yasser Arafat had reached Islamabad from Moscow and his initiative, observers believe, must have the
     The United States of America and the Soviet Union will resume discussion about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan very soon. ;
     The announcement came after Benazir’s trip to the US. Pakistan and the United States have said that they will emphasize finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
     A US spokesman said in Washington that the reason for an 18-month suspension of talks with the Soviets was to prevent suspicions that the superpowers will try to arrange a secret deal during the withdrawal.
     It is believed that the US decision to talk to the Soviets is due to the slow pace of military developments in Afghanistan.
     The American government has come under pressure from some congressional circles to review its Afghan policy. These circles do not like to see American military aid is given to the
blessings of Moscow.
      Arafat will send his personal representative to Kabul to talk to the regime about his role as a mediator between the adversaries in the conflict.
      Arafat's formula may include formation of a coalition government with the participation of the Mujahideen and the regime which will supervise general elections. He may propose the ex-king as the head of the transitional government
      Arafat's initiative is facing two major problems:
      1- Arafat is known among Afghans as a pro-regime and pro-Soviet politician who have close relations with the communist regime in Kabul. In all
                                                                                                                                Turn to page ( 3 )
 Mujahideen following the Soviet troop withdrawal.
      The reason given by US official for the resumption of talks between the superpowers is not convincing to some Afghans because the superpowers could still be accused of arranging a secret deal behind die back of Afghans.
      The Mujahideen worries about talks between the Soviet Union and the United States are based on past experiences. The United States and the Soviet Union signed the Geneva accord behind the back of the Mujahideen.
      The Mujahideen were not fully informed about the Geneva negotiations at different stages and the treaty was signed despite the public and private opposition by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen are afraid that the resumption of talks could lead to a similar deal.
      The United States special envoy to the Mujahideen government, Mr. Peter Thompson took his oath of office on June 21.
      American officials say that the appointment of a special envoy to the Mujahideen is a sign for continued support to the resistance.
      The US government have not extended formal recongnition to the interim government of the Mujahideen. The US government has kept its diplomatic relations with the puppet regime in Kabul despite calling it illegitimate.
       The US closed its embassy in Kabul before the Soviet troops left Afghanistan, but the decision was taken oft security grounds. The Kabul regime's embassy in Washington is still open and the demand by some congressmen to close the regime embassy has not been accepted by the Bush administration.
      The Kabul regime terms sending a special envoy to the Mujahideen as interference in the affairs of Afghanistan and a breach of the Geneva accords.
 Arafat's peace formula as controversial as his role
AFGHANews Vol5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page @
     Kabul province
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed or wounded 20 regime soldiers and captured 10 more on June 11 when they attacked two posts in Qala-i-Murad Beg, about 15 kilometers north of the city of Kabul.
     The Mujahideen seized the following items:
     20 Kalashnikov rifles 2 PK machine-guns 1 ZPU machine-gun 1 DShK machine-gun 1 Mortar
     600 boxes of Ammunition- different types
     Five Mujahideen were injured and one Mujahid was killed in fighting.
     The enemy retaliated by shelling and bombing the Shakar Dara and Qala-i-Murad Beg areas, inflicting losses on the property.
     The report sent by Dr. Khan Agha adds that the enemy has no presence in the Shakar Dara and Qala-i-Murad Beg areas. The enemy's control is limited to Khair Khana pass overlooking the city.
     Dr. Khan Agha, Jami'at commander in Qala-i-Murad Beg, has a well organized front close to the capital.
     As a result of his and other Mujahideen's activities in this strategic area the enemy was forced to build a new road which connects the two airports of Bagram and Khwaja Rawash and bypasses Shakar Dara district
     Dr. Khan Agha lost his brother. Commander Soldianyar who was also his deputy, one month ago in fighting against the communists. He has been closely working with the Supervisory Council of the North.
     In a joint attack the Mujahideen captured forty officers and more than 200 soldiers and seized eight tanks in Husian Koot, North of the city of Kabul, on June 12.
     Commander Anwar, Commander Mastamand and Commander Mohammad Aajan launched the attack.
     The Mujahideen also seized a large number of weapons and a considerable amount of ammunition. The report sent by the commanders does not give any detail of fighting or the casualties on either side.
     Husain Koot is about 20 kilometers north of the city of Kabul on Kabul-Salang highway.
     Recently, the regime built a new road from Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash airport to bypass the section of the road passing through Qara Bagh, Husain Koot and Shakar Dara in the face of increased military activities by the Mujahideen.
   Kandahar province
     On June 11, the Mujahideen in Qandahar shot down a regime helicopter with a Stinger missile. The plane crashed in Achekzay area and caught fire.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen fighting around the airport set Fire to an enemy tank and a food depot.
     In Lashkargah 40 militiamen joined the Mujahideen, bringing one
tank.
 Badakhshan province
     Soviet troops are still involved in combat missions against the Mujahideen in the areas close to the common border between the two countries.
     Mohammad Kabood who is from Darwaz district told Afghanews that hundreds of Soviet soldiers crossed the Amu river on motorboats and attacked the Mujahideen position on March 25.
     In the fighting which continued for three days the Soviet artillery and warplanes also participated in support
 of their ground forces.
     Nine Mujahideen, including Najibullah the deputy commander of the Mujahideen in Darwaz, and 60 civilians were killed. Soviet soldiers also killed more than 100 cattle. The Soviets lost about 40 soldiers in the fighting.
     Kabood who was a witness to the fighting said that the reason for the Soviet attack was the Mujahideen attack on the regime base in Zengria.
     He added that when the regime units come under the Mujahideen's attack, they fire artillery shells inside the Soviet territory to provoke a retaliation against the Mujahideen. Sometimes the retaliation takes the form of artillery and aerial bombardments and other times the form of ground attacks.
     Talib Jan another Mujahid who arrived in Peshawar said that regime forces are stationed in four places in the border district of Darwaz. He said that regime forces who are mainly militias of the Ismailia sect are holding these positions with the active support of the Soviet troops. According to Talib, Ismailias form about 10 percent of the population of Darwaz. Mohabbat Shah the governor of Darwaz belong to the Ismailia community.
     Due to a road block it takes several weaks to walk from Darwaz to Pakistan. This is the reason for the late reporting of the event
                                                     Balkh province
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank and captured a security post of the enemy on June 15, near the city of Mazar.
     The post which was located in Sultan Baba area was part of the security belt to protect the city.
     The report is silent about the casualties of the two sides.
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed six enemy soldiers and captured two when they captured two posts in Chemtal district on June 7. The Mujahideen seized eight Kalashnikov rifles.
     One of the posts belonged to the Fertilizer Company and the other was located in Sar Asiab area.
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured 23 soldiers and three officers and set on fire three tanks when they attacked the enemy posts in Shadian on June 10.
     All the enemy posts were captured and the following weapons were
                                                                                                               Turn to page ( 3 )
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page ©
News
From page (2)
                                                 issue
 seized:
     66 Kalashnikov rifles
     2  PK Machine-guns
     3  Mortars
     1 RPG-7 Rocket Launcher
     6 Radio set
     Some ammunition
     Commander Alam Khan who led the above operations reports that his Mujahideen shot down two enemy jets. One of the enemy jets hit with a Stinger missile crashed in the northern part of the city of Mazar on June 14
     The other crashed in Shoor Bulaq area on June 16.
     The enemy launched four attacks to recapture the Shadian posts liberated by the Mujahideen but failed in the face of tough resistance put up by the Mujahideen.
                                                  Badghis province
     Three hundred armed militiamen headed by Ghulam Farrooq joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Qadis district in Badghis province on June 10.
     The Mujahideen led by Commander Dost Mohammad have laid a siege around Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis since June 15.
      Dost Mohammad took the place of Naik Mohammad Khan who was killed in fighting some weeks ago.
     The Kabul regime has partial control of Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital and of the districts of Qadis, Murghab and Kushk-i-Kohna.
     The districts of Jawand and Ghormach are controlled by the Mujahideen.
                                                  Baghlan province
      On June 17, the Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy convoy destroying two tanks and killing four soldiers in Surkh Kotal, about 10 kilometer from Pul-i-Khumri on the road to Mazar.
      On June 21, an enemy truck was captured along with three soldiers. Both attacks were launched by Commander Shir Ali.
                                                   Logar province
  The Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter one June 8.
 The helicopter which was on a combat mission was hit by machinge-gun fire and crashed in Haron Khail of Babos.
      Iranian speaker, Ali Akber Hashimi Rafsanjani, ended his three-day official tour of the Soviet Union during which bilateral issues and the problem of Afghanistan was discussed with the Soviet officials.
      Rafsanjani arrived to Moscow on June 20 at the head of a high-ranking Iranian delegation. He held two rounds of talks with Gorbachev.
      Gorbachev called the trip a turning point in the history of the two countries' relationship. In the joint declaration issued at the end of the visit, they asked for a non-aligned, independent Afghanistan which has good relationships with all its neighbors.
      Before Rafsanjani's trip. Foreign Minister Ali Akber Velayati paid a short visit to Pakistan to discuss the Afghan situation with Pakistani leaders. He also met with Afghan leaders including Prof. Rabbani to get their views on the situation.
      The Soviet news agency, TASS, has said that there were close or identical views between the Soviet and Iranian leaders on the Afghan issue. TASS probably was refering to the same languages the two sides used when they expressed their stand on Afghanistan. But each side's interpretation of these terms is different.
      One thing that brings the two sides close is their worries about the West’s influence in Afghanistan. Thd Soviet Union plays on Iran's worries about alleged American involvement in Afghanistan. .
      But the Mujahideen leaders have repeatedly described their independent position. They have clearly stated that they want an independent Afghanistan having good relations with all those countries which respect, the indepen-
 dence of Afghanistairand refrain from interfering in its affairs.
      Iranian leaders have repeatedly assured the Mujahideen of their support in their struggle against the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul. They have told the Mujahideen leaders that they will never compromise on their principled position on the Afghan issue.
      Iran hosts more than two million Afghan refugees. Mujahideen Shia parties also have their headquarters in Iran. Iran did not participate in the Geneva negotiations on the ground that the Mujahideen opposed them. But Iran has maintained diplomatic relations with the puppet regime in Kabul. The Mujahideen were not allowed in most cases to pass their arm supplies through Iran.
      Arafat
                                              From page (1)
 the international forums in which PLO has had a voice it has opposed the Mujahideen and supported die regime and the Soviet invaders. •
    2-His formula envisages a kind of power-sharing between the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen have rejected any such arrangement.
    When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, they made use of the good offices of Arafat to convince Iran that the invasion was a police action against foreign forces who were the common enemy of Iran and the Soviet Union. Bani Sadie the then president of Iran disclosed Arafat's mission on Iranian television.
Arrr'TT AMmc Vni f is.                                                                                                            
AIaJIIAINCwS VOl J,                                                                    fo 13, July 1,1989, page Q                 
                                     AF G HANews                                       the world community. Let's make use        
                                                                                       of our precious time to intensify mili¬    
                                                                                       tary efforts against the enemy because     
                                                                                       communists know the language of            
                                                                                       strength. The Mujahideen have the po¬      
Editorial                                                                              tential ability to defeat the regime mili¬ 
                                                                                       tarily. The shortcomings of the            
                                                                                       Mujahideen are curable and they can be     
                                                                                       corrected while taking action, the way     
                                                                                       Afghans learned while fighting the war     
                                                                                       against the Soviet Union.                  
                                Mujahideen need major                                  Child of war                               
                                  military victories                                                From page (7) .               
The Mujahideen need a major military victory to end the present situation              Nesar was afraid to be conscripted         
which is developing against them.                                                      into the puppet army. He and his fami¬     
Military victory is needed to keep the morale of the Mujahideen high and               ly did not want to fight in support of     
give hope to the people of Afghanistan that the communist regime can be de¬            the communist regime. More than that       
feated. Victory in the battlefield is needed to assure the international supporters    few of the conscripts returned alive.      
of the Mujahideen that the resistance is capable of defeating the regime and twing¬    Most of them were either killed or         
ing peace to Afghanistan. Outsiders will only support a winner. The Russians           maimed in the notorious cause. He had      
need to be told that the communist regime's fall is inevitable and that country,       lost a cousin who was put into the         
should not prolong the war unnecessarily by giving arms and money to the Kabul         army by force.                             
regime. The people on the regime side also must be shown that their resistance is      Nesar went into hiding. He could           
useless and they have to change sides. These aims can be achieved through a ma-        not get out of Kabul easily because the    
joT military victory.                                                                  city is surrounded by security posts.      
The Mujahideen experience has shown that they will be taken seriously in¬              Kabul is like an island surrounded with    
ternationally and internally when they are militarily strong. At the beginning of      several belts of security posts. In order  
the invasion, they had problems in persuading the outside world to support them.       to pass these posts one needs a great      
When they showed their strength in the war against the Soviets, the situation          amount of money.                           
changed.                                                                               For seven months he was cut of             
The present situation is in need of a good example to expose the regime's              the outside world. Only close relatives    
weakness and the strength of the Mujahideen.                                           knew about him. If the news of his hid¬    
Becaifse of lack of progress in the battlefield the enemy is getting more              ing place had reached regime agents he     
confident and the supporters of the Mujahideen are becoming impatient and              would have been put into the army and      
nervous.                                                                               his family would have been punished        
If the Mujahideen do not score a military achievement they will be confront¬           for hiding their son.                      
ed with political options which may riot be suitable to them. The political op¬        There are thousands of people like         
tions must always be kept open but the Mujahideen should go to the conference,         Nesar who want to escape the rule of       
table when they have an upper hand in the battlefield.                                 the communists. Some succeed others        
The Mujahideen need time to win the war. Developments after the Soviet                 fail. A large number of them are in hid¬   
troop withdrawal showed that the war has a protracted nature. The supporters of        ing and hope to find the right contact     
Afghanistan can not impose a time limit on die Mujahideen for winning the war.         and enough money to escape to              
The time needed to win the war will be determined by resources, terrain, climatic      freedom.                                   
conditions, tactics, experience in fighting and enemy strength.                        Regime missile                             
Likewise, setting a time limit for continuation of aid is a mistake which              kills 20                                   
will encourage the Soviet and the regime to continue fighting.                         A Kabul regime Scud                        
There have been signs of escalation of the war in Afghanistan in the past              missile hit a Mosque on                    
few days. The fighting season has started and major fighting will take plaoe dur¬      Thursday west of Jalalabad                 
ing this summer.                                                                       killing 20 Mujahideen and                  
There is a need for some commanders to take the lead to break the present              civilians, reported the                    
stalemate situation. Jami'at Island which has capable commanders and organized         Afghan Media Resource                      
fronts and controls strategic areas in Afghanistan can play the historic role of lead¬ Center (AMRC).                             
ing the war against the communist regime. But Jami'at needs support of like-           Twelve women and children died             
minded parties to play its role effectively.                                           instantly when the missile hit the         
Party politics may prevent some people from lending a hand to their fellow             mosque in Fatehabad village in             
Mujahideen in a major drive against the regime, but the Mujahideen in the battle¬      Surkhrod district where they were          
fields realize the need for such cooperation. As in the past most of the command¬      sleeping.                                  
os will support fighting against the regime.                                           The victims were from Kukruk               
Since the military needs have become more important than the political ef¬             village in Surkhrod district and were      
forts, the Mujahideen leaders must work harder to support the war efforts of the       going to Pakistan to escape fighting       
commandos. Unfortunately the leaders spend 90% of their time debating the form         and food shortages.                        
of the interim government and the division of ministerial posts among the parties      The missile also killed eight              
and other related issues.                                                              Mujahideen.                                
Once the enemy is defeated Afghans can debate political issues as long as                                                         
they wish in their country without being a burden on neighboring countries and                                                    
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1, 1989, page @
Who's who in the Mujahideen
Comr. Mushtaq
     Shamsulhaq known as Commander Mushtaq, 36, was bom in the village of Begtoot in Paghman district, Kabul province.
     His father Mohammad Deen, Tajik, was a farmer in his village. Mushtaq completed his studies up to 12th grade in Paghman high school. Due to financial problems in his family, he was not able to attend Kabul University.
     Mushtaq was active in school against the communists. When the communists took power in 1978 , they arrested him for some days. "The minute I was released I talked to some young people in Paghman and formed my small group," said Mushtaq.
     He established his base in the Pashaee valley in Paghman and Mushtaq's small group of Mujahideen are still based in the same valley.
       Mushtaq's brother, Ebrahim, is his deputy who stays mostly inside.
     He is married and has three children.
Commander Fedaee
     Commander            Mir
Mohammad Fedaee, was born 35 years ago in Koof, a small mountainous village in Darwaz district, Badakhshan province.
     His father Qurban Mohammad, a Tajik , was a poor peasant. Amongst other poor villagers his family was the poorest.
     Fedaee completed his primary school in his village and then studied Islamic subjects in different Madrassas( religious schools) in Badakhshan, Kunduz and Kabul. When the communist regime of Taraki was installed by the Soviets in 1978, Fedaee joined the Mujahideen in Takhar province. He stayed for two years in that province, learned to use weapons, participated in the operations against the enemy and worked in the cultural field for the Mujahideen.
     It was in 1980 that Fedaee came to Pakistan and joined Jami’at Military Academy. In one year he graduated from the Academy and started to work there.
 In 1982 he left Peshawar for Darwaz. In Darwaz he started to work as Qazi Ahmad's deputy and later in 1985 when Commander Qazi Ahmad was martyred, he became Jami'at chief administrator ( Amir) of Darwaz.
      Darwaz is one of the most strategic areas in Afghanistan. It is surrounded by Soviet territory on three sides. Commander Fedaee along with other commanders such as Samiullah Qatra( the commander of Darwaz), Abdul Qadeer and Qazi Sarwar have worked to build an effective organization for the fighting against the Soviets.
      Commander Fedaee has participated in many operations against the enemy of which the operations in 1980,1981 and 1987 are the most successful ones.
      Commander Fedaee is welt re spected by the Mujahideen and the ci vilian population in Darwaz. He is married.
              The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
                             From page (6)
      The council of the new unity was under strong pressure from the Ulama, students of the religious schools, and former university students who were members of the Islamic Movement, They were impatiently waiting for the downfall of the communist regime. They thought as soon as the two wings of the Islamic Movement reunited, the regime should have collapsed. I found that view naive, however. I felt they lacked adequate understanding of the depth of differences' between the two wings of the Islamic Movement and of the resources that were required in order to topple the regime.
      In response to those pressures, a committee consisting of die military officers who were members of the Islamic Movement was formed. The committee was supposed to design plans for Jihad activities. Because of economic problems, however, we could not Find a place to house the committee. Thus, the project failed to materialize.
      Later on a Military Committee was formed. A number of military officers started work under the official supervision of Mawlawi Mohammadi but effective supervision of Qazi Amin. That committee also failed to design a successful plan due to the following factors:
      1) It lacked the required resources.
      2)       No efforts were made to find out the whereabouts of the military officers who supported the Islamic Movement but still served in the Afghan Army.
      3)       The leaders did not trust each other nor those in charge of the Military Committee.
      4)       Some weapons and military equipment were with Eng. Hikmatyar. He denied, however, the fact that he was holding them and claimed he had distributed them among Mujahideen.
      It should be noted that Eng.Hikmatyar was officially in charge of the Cultural Committee at that time. He did not relinquish military activities for one moment, however. Thus, he neither let the Military Committee do its job nor did he carry out his duties in the Cultural Committee properly.
      It should also be noted that before the reunity with Hezb, Prof. Rabbani had taken part in the formation of Jabha Nijat Milli (National Liberation Front) in Mecca, Saudi Arabia. Members of Hezb Islami raised a lot of questions in regard to Jabha. Hikmatyar claimed that the former king and his cousin, General Abdul Wali were also members of Jabha. Prof. Rabbani rejected that allegation strongly. About his own relations to Jabha, Prof. Rabbani's posi-
 tion was that he was a member in the council of the unity. He believed any relations between the unity and Jabha should take place through the council. If Jabha could become active and then the council voted in favor of coopera tion with it, there would not be any problem. But if the council voted against cooperation with Jabha once it had become active, then he would have to choose between the two. He would either leave Jabha and continue his activities in the unity; or he would leave the unity and join Jabha as an individual.
                                                                                Regime Casualty figures misleads
    The Kabul regime has is sued statistics, according to which about 1,800 of its soldiers have been killed during the past five months. These included 300 soldiers, killed during fighting for control of Jalalabad.
    The report claims that more than 12,000 Mujahideen have been killed during these five months.
     The figures are considerec highly exaggerated and misleading.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page ©
 Glimpses into the historic background of Part (7)
 The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
      Reunity between Hezb and Jami'at and formation of "Harakat Inqlab Islami":
      During the meeting in which Maw law i Fayez was appointed as the president of die new unity and chairman of its Supreme Council, all the members submitted written allegiances to Mr. Fayez. He might still have the forms with him. In the meeting we also decided that die Supreme Council would be the highest decision-making authority which would decide about all the important issues including the name of the new organization and its emblem.
      After a while, Mr. Fayez held the first meeting of the Supreme Council. The issues under discussion included die general members' contentment with the election of Mr. Fayez, the need for announcement of the decision, the need for transfer of authority to him, and the need for nullification of the authorities of the leaders of Hezb and Jami'at. What became clear from the meeting was the fact that Hezb Islami had made its acceptance of die new unity conditional chi two demands:
      (1)      The new organization should be called "Hezb Islami".
      (2)      The emblem of the new party should be the same as that of Hezb Islami.
      These demands were rejected by other members because they were against the earlier decisions. The situation in the meeting became tense. Finally it was decided to postpone the matter for the nett session.
  When we were waiting for the next session. Prof. Rabbani informed ns that Hezb Islami had said it was ready to give up its demands and accept tire unity provided that Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi replaced Mawlawi Fayez as die president of the new organization. We were surprised by Hezb's new condition but also happy that a solution was found for the problem.
      On September 26, 1978, a lofty meeting was held in Madina Mosque, Peshawar, to announce the formation of the reunity between Jami’at and Hezb. The leaders including Prof. Rabbani, Mr. Hikmatyar, Qazi Amin, and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi were present in the meeting. All the leaders spoke on the occasion welcoming the unity and pledging support
                         Memoirs of Dr. Taw ana
      In his speech, Qazi Amin said, "1 wish to serve as a sincere soldier in this new organization. I have never been willing to assume any high official position and will not be.” He asked the audience not to treat the leaders of Hezb and Jami'at as party leaders anymore. "You are the ones dial create leadership. Without your support no one could claim to be a leader”, he continued. The meeting concluded with a lot of hope for die establishment of an Islamic system in Afghanistan after the reunify of die Islamic Movement
 The council of the new organization started its meetings under the chairmanship of Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi. In one of the sessions die issue of the name of the new party was brought up. Mawlawi Mohammadi suggested the name "Inqlab Islami”, and another member-most probably Prof. Rabbani—added the word "Harakat" to it So the new party was called ”Harakat Inqlab Islami Afghanistan” (Islamic Revolutionary Movement of Afghanistan). Now one objected to the proposed name, and we thought it was accepted unanimously. Thus, we began using the new name for the party. Few days later, however, Mb'. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin raised their earlier pre-conditions for unity—i.e., adopting the name and emblem of Hezb. Prof. Rabbani expressed deep regret about such turnarounds. He said he could not tolerate violation of previous decisions any more. To ease the situation, I and Fayez—who considered ourselves members of the unity rather than belonging to our earlier parties— intervened. We suggested that Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin should accept the name "Harakat Inqlab Islami” and Prof. Rabbani should agree to adopt the emblem of Hezb for the new party .
      Participation of Qazi Amin in the council meetings created some tension. He was not a member of the council. In public meetings he had expressed his unwillingness to assume any high position. Nonetheless, he used to come to council meetings. When we asked Mawlawi Nabi about the issue, he said he had invited him because he was a qualified person. From this answer, we got the impression that Mawlawi Nabi did not follow the decisions of the council. On the contrary, he acted according to his personal views. We resented such an attitude, but because of
 the circumstances and also for our respect to Mawlawi Nabi we did not raise any voice in protest
      After a few days, Mawlawi Mohammadi brought up the issue of appointing Qazi Amin as the head of the Military Committee. We rejected that proposal and got the impression that Mawlawi Nabi was biased towards Hezb. Finally Qazi Amin was appointed vice-president of the Military Committee. In fact, however, he acted as president because Mawlawi Nabi himself was its nominal president.
      In the council meetings, we used to discuss the ways to confront the Kabul communist regime, how to topple it, and how to establish an independent Islamic system in its place. One point of the discussion was toe fact that the regime was armed and enjoyed the military support of the Soviet Union, whereas we were empty handed. We had a difference of opinion as what to do. Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin argued that fighting was useless, "all toe people of a province cannot confront even one tank.” They talked about bloodshed, destruction and other tragedies resulting from war and concluded that "we cannot bear toe consequences of fighting. Neither can we provide for the needs of our people inside Afghanistan nor for the needs of those who will go as refugees abroad." Most probably they preferred a coup in toe army. I preferred fighting. With toe limited knowledge I had about war, I believed we could confront toe enemy and its tanks through a guerrilla warfare. I proposed to consult some mili-. tary officers on that point. Mr. Hikmatyar's view was that toe Afghan military officers did not know about a guerilla war any more than he did.
  After some discussions, we agreed to recruit a military officer for the council to utilize his expertise and experience. He would not be a voting member, however. Col. Mohammad Zairian was selected for that task. I asked him some technical questions especially about the possibility of confrontating tanks. He gave a detailed lecture about guerrilla warfare and illustrated the primitive ways of confrontation with tanks. His explanations were very encouraging for undertaking Jihad activities.
                                                                                                                     Turn to page (5)
-------:  ---  AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page 0
Escape from Kabul
                Child of war
     Nesar and his father went to an agreed point They were met by the driver of a truck. This truck was supposed to take Nesar and his father to the Mujahideen controlled areas outside die city of Kabul.
     The driver had made a special room inside the truck. It was like a coffin. Nesar slipped into the box and the lid was tightly screwed. The box had holes through which fresh air came.
     After concealing Nesar the truck moved to bus stand. It was loaded with goods and people. Nesar’s father seemed worried about the safety of his son. After some minutes he asked the truck conductor if his son was safe. It took the truck four and half hours to reach its destination. After unloading the goods the truck was taken to a private place where the lid was unscrewed and to the surprise of his father Nesar came out of it safe. After seven months of hiding Nesar was out of the besieged city of Kabul. Both father and son thanked Allah and paid a good sum to the driver who smuggled men from Kabul to the Mujahideen controlled areas.
 '       esar  was six years old when
 the communists took power through a military coup in 1978. He saw marches and meetings of the supporters of the regime who carried red banners and raised red flags. Revolutionary songs were sung by the students in their gatherings which had became part of the life of the students and government officials.
     Nesar’s family always showed its displeasure with the new regime in private. They thought that the regime's economic and social programs were against their religious beliefs and traditions. They could not show their displeasure openly because the regime would have put them into jail and have killed them.
     One year after the coup, people of the village, Shast, heard the news of an insurgency in the upper part of the Panjshir valley. Their morale soared by the news and they became hopeful for their freedom.
     A few days later communist activists were seen preparing for war and the regime planes were seen bombing a town 10 kilometers away. It was the sign of the approach of the Mujahideen.
                                                                                                       When the Mujahideen arrived at the outskirts of the town the commu-
 nists escaped without putting up resistance.
     Young Nesar went to the local government headquarters, now under the control of the Mujahideen, to greet the freedom fighters. Every where in villages and in mosques people talked about the courage of the Mujahideen and young children listened attentively to the stories.
     After two. months the Mujahideen evacuated the town because of lade of ammunition and poor organization. Hie communist forces once again were in full control of the situation. The Mujahideen had retreated to the upper pan of the valley but remained active. The news of their activities pleased the people of the area who prayed for their victory over the communists.
     T he first Soviet invasion of the
 valley took place in March 1980. More than 300 tanks, armored cars and trucks participated in a week-long operation. The people of the valley were sad by the sight of the size of the enemy forces:
     Some months before, the communists forces who had only six tanks, had forced the Mujahideen to retreat. The Mujahideen who were few in number and ill-armed were not thought able to survive such a big force.
     Nesar was among the tens of children who saw the Soviet armored columns passing on their way to the uppo1 part of the valley. The sky was full of jets and helicopters. After seven days he saw that the enemy forces leaving the valley. The news reached the people that the Mujahideen had killed a large number of Soviet soldiers and had captured a lot of weapons. This was indeed good news to the people and they called it a miracle.
     After the first invasion, the Mujahideen influence spread quickly. A large number of young people volunteered to fight and they were trained. Young Nesar was a witness to all these developments.
     In th early 1981, the Mujahideen opened a school in the town and Nesar became a student
     In peaceful societies, sportsmen and film stars are the ones who draw the attention of the young people the most A country engaged in a war for liberation has its own stars—the Mujahideen. Nesar and other children pretended to be Mujahideen. They made toy weapons
 and played mode raids and ambushes.
     To raise the moral of the Mujahideen the school administrator decided to form a team of singers who sang pro-Mujahideen songs.
     Nesar had a excellent voice and a good memory. He became a leader of the chorus in his village. Local poets recited verse in support of the Jihad and the condemnation of Soviet invaders and their local communist supporters. The poems were composed into songs which were sung on different occasions. These songs were recorded and smuggled to the Soviet controlled cities. It was the best form of anti-communist and anti- Soviet propaganda which the Mujahideen ever used.
     In a society where 90% of the people are not able to read and write listening to audio tapes is an effective way of getting the message. The sweet voices of children moved people and encouraged them to take side with the Mujahideen.
     The Soviets always had one answer to all these activities. That was the use of force. They launched several offensives and repeatedly bombed the villages. The women, elderly and children were the prime victims of those indiscriminate actions. Hundreds of children died in air raids, artillery fire and mines. Hie rest left the town they loved because it was not possible to live their anymore.
     Nesar was one of the children who took refuge in Kabul, the capital. His father was an old man, his brother lived in exile and he was the one to look after his family. He started to work in a bakery.
     KLabul is full of child workers.
 Only old people and children can work because the young ones are conscripted into the puppet army to fight the Mujahideen. Due to manpower shortage, the child workers are paid well.
     From 1982 to 1987 Nesar worked in the bakery and sung his revolutionary songs in a low voice least no KhAD agent hear him singing.
     Although Nesar was 17 years old, he had grown tall and strong. The official age of conscription was 20 but regime press-ganged children of 13 and above if they were strong enough to carry a gun. The regime's mobile conscription teams searched the houses, shops and other places.
                                                                                                                          Turn to page ( 4)
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 13, July 1,1989, page
©
               Soviet delegation discusses POW issue with resistance leaders
     An 8-member delegation of Soviet citizens came to Pakistan on June 18 to lobby for the release of more than 300 Soviet soldiers who are thought to be captured by the Mujahideen.
     In the delegation were three mothers and a father of the missing Soviet soldiers.
     During the third round of Mujahid-Soviet talks on prisoners of war in Islamabad, the Soviet side revealed that this delegation would arrive.
     The Pakistan government had agreed to the trip as a good-well gesture towards the relatives of the missing soldiers.
     Inclusion of the mothers of the missing soldiers was a clever move by the Soviet side to draw public attention to their cause.
     The delegation visited the press in Islamabad and held talks with Pakistan Foreign Minister, Yaqoub Khan, who assured them of Pakistan cooperation. .Yaqoub Khan said to the Soviet delegations that no Soviet POWs were on Pakistan soil.
     The Soviet delegation which called itself1 a group of private citizens' flew to Peshawar to talk to the Mujahideen leaders. The trip to Peshawar proved an eye-opening event for the Soviet delegation.
     Outside the hotel where they were lodged, a group of crippled Afghan children gathered to draw the attention of the Soviet visitors to the atrocities committed by the Soviet soldiers.
     The delegation was received by the President and Foreign Minister of the interim government of Afghan Mujahideen. While the Mujahideen leaders showed sympathy for the agrieved Soviet mothers, they drew their attention to the scale of suffering of Afghans caused by the invasion of their homeland by Soviet army.
      Prof. Mujaddidi, the president of the Interim Government, told the Soviet delegation that he was in favor of a total deal. He said that the Mujahideen were ready to release Soviet prisoners if the Soviets do the same. He said that more than 30,000 Mujahideen were missing in addition to more than 10,000 Afghan children taken to the: Soviet Union for brain-washing. He asked the Soviet side, to provide information about the missing Mujahideen and return the children.
      During the meeting of the Soviet delegation with Prof. Mujaddidi, a soldier who has converted to Islam was shown to the visitors. The exsoldier said that he was not ready to return to the Soviet Union, but give a letter to the delegation to take to his family.
      The women members of the delegation wore modest clothes and covered their heads when meeting the Mujahideen leaders to show their respect for the Islamic values in which Afghans believe.
      The Soviet delegation visited the Red Cross hospital where war-wounded Afghans are treated, Nasir Bagh refugees camp and met with a group of Afghan women who had lost their relatives in the war.
      The delegation was greatly affected by the scale of suffering of the Afghans.
      In a press conference they called the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan a mistake.
      When asked about a possible deal on prisoner exchange, the head of the Soviet delegation said that he will pass the Mujahideen demand on to the Soviet government
      Soviets say that 311 of their soldiers are missing. Afgh
      an sources say that the number of the soldiers captured by the Mujahideen is less than the figure given by the
Regime captures American journalist
      A US journalist was captured by the regime police on June 8 in Kabul.
      Tony O'Brien, a free-lance photo-journalist, was arrested by the regime police along with an Afghan Mujahid when he was smuggled into the city of Kabul.
      He had visited Afghanistan many times in the past to cover the war. Kabul regime has said that it is ready to release O'Brien if the US sends a special envoy to Kabul to negotiate the de-
 tails of his release.
       A spokesman for the American government said in Washington that the American journalist's capture will not change American policy on Afghanistan.
       In the past, several journalists from different countries have been arrested but were later released . The Kabul regime tried many of them on charges of espionage and anti-state activities.

brings down
      Iranian authorities have said that a personal feud between the flight guard and the co-pilot of a regime civilian airline led to its crash on June 18 in which five people were killed and 25 injured.
      The plane belonging to Ariana Afghan Airlines was on its way from Kabul to Zaranj, the provincial capital of Neemroz province, when the fighting between the flight guard and the copilot forced it to land on a sand strip near the city of Zabul in Iran. The plane overturned. Iranian authorities helped the survivors and admitted the wounded to hospital.
      The spokesman of the regime had claimed that the plane was hijacked and even accused pro-Mujahideen elements of being involved in the hijacking, but Iranian authorities rejected this view and attributed the crash to fighting between the crew of of the ill-fated Antonov-26 jet liner. The wounded passengers and bodies of those killed in the incident were returned to Kabul.
      Due to road blocks the air link is the only means of transportation to most of the cities controlled by the regime.
      Ariana Afghan Airlines is mainly engaged in domestic flights and its international flights are limited to Delhi and Moscow.
      Before the communist coup, Ariana Airlines flew to many countries all over the world. When a Pakistani plane was hijacked by some terrorists and was taken to Kabul some years ago, the communist regime in Kabul did not help in resolving the issue and was accused of helping the hijackers who killed a Pakistani diplomat, a passenger of the hijacked plane. Because of that incident, planes belonging to Ariana Airlines were banned from landing in most European airports.
      Most of the experienced pilots and technicians of Ariana Airlines have gone to exile and the company suffers from low safety standards.
                                          200 military advisors helping regime
     The Soviets have kept 200 military advisors in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of their troops on February 15, the Washington Post reported on June 8 quoting American Defence Department officials.
Vol 5, No 14                                               July 15, 1989
           US supports Afghans to determine their
   future: Peter Tomsen
 Jami'at leader seeks solution through fighting
       The Jami'at leader feels the need for intensification of the war to end the present semi-stalemate in Afghanistan.
       Talking to AMRC, he said, "The semi-stalemate that exists in the political arena of the resistance should be broken through military action. The war should intensify, so that the strong military stand of the Mujahideen to be restored"
       Unless the Mujahideen have a strong military position, they cannot speak of a strong stand in political arena , he said.
       He dismissed the view that the Mujahideen do not have the military strength to change the situation in their favor.
       Reacting to the proposed formation of a neutral government he said,
. .'In my opinion^ a neutral government should not be discussed at the moment because the Mujahideen have formed a government.”
       Regarding elections. Prof. Rabbani said, "I favor holding elections and approve them. Elections should be. held, of course not only in the camps but throughout Afghanistan."
       When asked why he made no comments about the latest political developments, Prof. Rabbani said, "When the Mujahideen government was formed, we gave time to those responsible in connection with the political issues. But now we think the period of our political seclusion is over, now we should talk more about die issues."
       Professor Rabbani was asked why the Najib regime did not fall in weeks as he had indicated in an interview in December. He replied, R1 had said that the Najib regime would not last if the Russians stopped their direct and indirect interference in Afghanistan. The Russians withdrew but their interference still continues."
        The Jami'at leads' said, "For the liberation of Afghanistan, in the first place, attention should be paid to the military issues".
      The US special envoy to the Mujahideen, Peter Tomsen, who arrived in Pakistan at the beginning of this month told the Mujahideen that US support for the right of self-determination of Afghans will continue.
      Mr. Tomsen visited Islamabad , Peshawar and Quetta during his two-week trip after assuming his post as the special envoy.
      He met with the president, prime minister and ministers of the Interim Afghan Government. He also met with some Afghan field commanders and visited two refugees camps in Kohat districts.
      Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the foreign minister of the interim government did not meet Mr. Tomsen. He was of the view that the US government should have recognized the interim government and Mr .Tomsen should have come as an ambassador not as a special envoy. While other leaders also wanted the same thing, they did not think it proper to refuse a meeting with the US special envoy.
      Peter Tomsen emphasized in his talks with the journalists that his appointment was a sign of the continuation of American support for the Mujahideen. *
      Some sources have said that US has decided to give military aid to the Mujahideen until the end of the current
 year. Vorontsov, the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has expressed hope that by the end of the current year fighting will end. By then, the American will stop giving military support to the Mujahideen, he says.
       The Mujahideen are worried about the implication of setting a time for winning the war. Setting such a deadline would give the Soviets an idea about the limit of American patience and will encourage Moscow to help the regime to win the war. For the Soviets, who have economic problems at home, financing the war is a burden which they can not carry for a long time.
       In his interviews Tomsen said that the US government had not fixed a time frame for the victory of the Mujahideen.
       He said that he was an en voy to Afghan resistance and his appointment did not extend recognition to the interim government.
       Tomsen's appointment was a compromise between the congress and the administration. Supporters of the Mujahideen in the congress wanted the interim government to be recognized while the administration was not ready to do so. A special envoy was an interim solution. It was a way to express support to the resistance without recognition of the interim government.
       Mr. Tomsen is new to Afghanistan's problems. He needs time to learn. His success depends on how quickly he will learn about this complicated issue.
       Developments after the Soviets troop withdrawal show the limitation of the mechanism through which the US government was receiving its information,
       Tomsen who is based in Washington will visit Saudi Arabia after Pakistan to discuss Afghan issue with Saudi authorities.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page ©
    News
From the battlefields
                                                  Balkh province
     Mujahideen from Jami'at shot down an enemy jet with a missile on July 6. The plane crashed near Chashma-i- S hafa.
     The Mujahideen set fire to the ammunition dump at Shadian garrison on July 2. No detail of the casualty is reported.
     Military activities in Balkh has increased recently. Jami'at commanders, Alam Khan and Khalil Khan have been busy fighting the enemy and reorganizing their forces.
     The Mujahideen in the areas suffer from shortages of ammunition and heavy weapons due to long transportation lines and seasonal road blocks.
                                               Ningarhar province
     The enemy forces recaptured some of the positions that they had lost earlier, when they launched an attack against the Mujahideen on July 8.
     The enemy forces pushed the Mujahideen 12 kilometers to the east of Jalalabad, but their advance was checked when.the Mujahideen regrouped and lauhched a counter attack against them.
     Fighting is now concentrated around Samar Khail, a garrison captured three months ago by the Mujahideen.
     The enemy air force daily bomb the Mujahideen positions and the regime uses Scud missiles against them.
     The Kabul-Jalalabad road has been cut by the Mujahideen in Sorobi area for two weeks.
     The regime had claimed a major victory in Jalalabad front and even said that its forces had captured Torkham border post about 65 kilometers from Jalalabad.
     A group of foreign journalists were taken to Jalalabad by the regime. They reported that the airport was damaged and was not useable by planes.
Only helicopters could land there.
      One of the reasons tge regime could not advance east of Jalalabad was attack by the Mujahideen in other fronts around Jalalabad.
      The regime had chosen the time of the attack close to Eid when most of the Mujahideen return to the refugees camps to visit their families.
      As a result of fresh fighting and increased bombing and missile attacks more refugees have entered Pakistan from around Jalalabad.
  Kandahar province
    An enemy jet was shot down by the Mujahideen on July 3. The plane crashed in Kandahar airport
                                                  Hindu refugee runs herbal clinic
      Gophal Singh, a 68-year-old Afghan Hindu who has come to Pakistan as a refugee, says he preferred being in the service of the Mujahideen and refugees of his country to going to India.
      Gophal Singh, who lives with thousands of other Afghan refugees in Bad Camp of Pabbi, added that he had a herbal clinic in Kagga and whenever needed, he rode his horse with the Mujahideen to reach an ill Mujahid in remote areas of Khogyani district. He said he treated wounded Mujahideen for free.
      The Afghan Hindu, who inherited the traditional means of remedy by herbs from his father, still continued treating patients in the refugee camp.
       "We are the only Hindu family who happily lives in a camp alongside Muslim refugees. Hindus and other minorities in Afghanistan were treated fairly by the community," he said.
      Hindus and Sikhs resented the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and some of them supported the resistance financially.
      There were several thousands Hindus and Sikhs living in the major cities of Afghanistan. They enjoyed full freedom of worship.
                     Fighting stops natural gas export to USSR
      Regime officials have said that natural gas exports to the Soviet Union have been suspended since Soviet troop withdrawal on February 15, AFP reported
      Regime officials have said that the decision to stop exporting natural gas to the Soviet Union has been taken wi security grounds.
      Natural gas is produced - in Jawzjan province. 97 percent of the gas was exported to the Soviet Union through a 50 kilometer pipeline.
      There is one fertilizer factory and one power generating plant in Mazar which use natural gas.
      Regime officials have said that production of natural gas for domestic use continues.
      In late 1970 Afghanistan was sending 2.1 billion cubic meters of its natural gas to the Soviet Union which earned Afghanistan 30 million dollars. No reliable statistics are available for the years of occupation. It is believed
that Soviets paid much lower than the market price for Afghan natural gas.
      Ex-officers of the Afghan natural gas authority say that the measuring devices for exported natural gas are situated on Soviet territory and Afghans have no control over them.
      It is reported that a decline has been recorded in production of natural gas. Observers believe it could be due to rapid drawing of the gas from the wells.
                                       Imam prays for Mujahideen
    Muslims performing the annual haj to Mecca, the holiest place in Islam, were urged on Friday to back the Palestinians drive for self determination and the cause of anti-communist Afghan Mujahideen.
    Sheikh Abdel Rahman Daiss, Imam of Mecca's Great Mosque, was speaking to nearly one million pilgrims from far flung countries such as the Soviet Union, China and South Africa.
AFGHANews Vol5, No 1 4, July 15, 1989, page©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
   Commander Arif
      Commander Mohammad Arif Rustami known as Arif Khan was bom 34 years ago in a small village called Qurutak in the center of Kapisa province.
      Commander Arifs father, Mohammad Rustam, a Tajik, was a poor peasant working hard to earn his living. He was known as Rustam the honest. "My father had nine sons and two daughters. Life was horrible. We could hardly find enough to eat. We were mostly hungry. Now think of our clothes how difficult they were to get," said Arif Khan's younger brother who is now doing medical training in Peshawar.
      Commander Arif completed his primary, middle and high school in the Dehbali high school. "1 remember my brother walking two hours to reach school mostly bearfoot," said his brother Mohammad Deen.
      Commander Arif Khan went to Kabul and enrolled in Kabul Police Academy. He completed the Academy in three years scoring the highest marks. "He was an intelligent student and worked very hard," said one of his classmates.
      Arif Khan was appointed a police officer in Herat province and he was posted to a unit along the border with Iran.
      "In two days the young officer from a very poor family was sent to that remote area," said his brother.
      The young officer went to his first assignment when he was 22 years old. He stayed there for two years, far from his birth place, a mountainous village, until the communists took power in 1978.
      Arif Khan was amongst the first officers who joined the Mujahideen . "He was one of those officers such as Allauddin Khan, Zabiuhullah Khan, Kamal and Ismail Khan who provided leadership for the Mujahideen in Herat,” said Haji Qari, Ismail Khan’s representative in Peshawar.
      Commander Arif did hot go to Kapisa province and decided to continue Jehad in Herat against the Soviets and their puppets. He became one of the effective commanders of Herat and a close friend of Ismail Khan.
      In 1984, he became the deputy for commander Allauddin Khan. His base was just on the western flank of the city of Herat. Later he went to the mountain bast; of Herat called Taghoon Koh.
      Commander Arif has participated in many operations shoulder to shoulder with Ismail Khan, the Amir of Herat and Allauddin Khan, the military chief.
      Commander Arif got married in Herat in 1983. far from his parents. "No one from his relatives was present at his wedding ceremony," said his brother.
      "Four years ago we all went to see him. My mother met her Mujahid son after seven years," recalled his brother. "The day when my mother met Arif was unforgettable to us. My mother was crying," added his brother.
      "I am proud of you. You are a Mujahid, a soldier of Islam," said his mother to Arif when they met after seven years in exile.
      Commander Arifs family lives in Iran. Once a year Arif goes to Iran to visit his mother. Arif has two children.
Engineers Mill
• iSf:
       Six U.S universities arc planning to help reconstruction in Afghanistan by offering engineering courses to Afghans in Peshawar, Pakistan, an American professor has said.
       They will co-operate with an existing programme run in Peshawar by the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian relief group, said Prof. Edward A. Friedman.
       Friedman, professor of management at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New Jersey, who is coordinating the six-university programme, said he had just relumed from a week-long visit to the Pakistan border.
       The Afghan Mujahideen have already created infrastructures in agriculture,. education and medicine in the eastern portion of Afghanistan, Friedman said.
       A number of road and irrigation projects are underway and the Mujahideen are planning a reservoir for the city of Balkh, he said.
       Friedman said the Kabul engineering programme, in which the Stevens Institute was a major participant, was forced to cldse in Kabul during the 1978 communist revolution. Soviet forces, which entered the country in 1979, have now left, but a pro-Soviet government remains in power in Kabul.
       Participants in the new group are the Stevens Institute, the university of Cincinnati, Catholic University, University of Wyoming, Colorado State University and the University of Nebraska.
Commander Jaffer
      Commander Jaffer was bom 38 years ago in Qum Araigh of Aqcha district, Jawzjan province. His father, Sayed Gharib was a poor villager living as an ordinary fanner. He could not send his son to the school due to his poverty. His family was a Pushtoon one living amongst the non-Pushtoons.
      When the communists took over in 1978 Jaffer was told by his father to participate in the Jihad. "His father ad-visedall his five sons to take aims and help those who fight against communists," said Jaffers's representative in Peshawar.
      "Jaffer went to the Jami'at Islami commander in Aqcha and asked him to
give him a weapon. Jami'at commander, martyr Ghulam Ghous, gave him a shotgun. Jaffer became a fighter helping other Mujahideen. "Showing courage and dedication Jaffer became a group commander," said his representative.
      Commander Jaffer attracted more people and launched attacks against the gas pipe-line running through his area. In the first three years. Commander Jaffer was able to capture at least 50 weapons.
      In 1980 he became the village commander and in 1982 the district commander.
      Jaffer has learned fighting through fighting. He personally leads
his men in action against the enemy .In the operations of February 1985, July 1986, and November 1987, Commander Jaffer and his Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. In February 1985 he ambushed a big convoy of the Russians' on the Mazar-Sheberghan road in which he was able to destroy five tanks and armored cars and ten jeeps and trucks.
      Commander Jaffer broke the siege of the city of Aqcha in July 1986 sue cessfully. His Mujahideen along with other Mujahideen of other parties fought well for 28 days. Many civilians were killed, crops were burnt and animals decimated by the Russians.
      Commander Jaffer is a good horse rider. He is married. He has lost his mother and one brother in the war.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page g
 AFGHANews
     ?;EO,Bk          PSkSMipl: (0521)
  Editorial
 Jami'at condemns violence in Mecca
     The explosion of two bombs in the Holy city of Mecca which killed one person and injured 16 was a sacrilegious act undermining the sanctity of the Holy city.
     The criminal act took place when Mecca was packed with 2 million pilgrims from all over the worldwho had come to perform haj.
     Holy Mecca is declared by Islam a city of peace. Its trees cannot be cut and its wild animals are not allowed to be hunted.
     Those who exploded the bombs killed and injured innocent people and created fear in the mind of worshipers. Those who shed unlawful blood and prevent people from worshipping Allah deserve punishment They are criminals and must be dealt with structly.
     In the past ten years the holy city of Mecca has been witness to a series of violent incidents which has disturbed the peaceful nature of the city.
     In 1979, a group of extremists seized control of the Grand Mosque. As a result of the clash between them and the security forces of the Kingdom more than 200 persons from both sides were killed.
     In 1987, the clash between Iranian hajis and the security forces resulted in the killing of 400 people from both sides.
     This latest bomb explosion is the third incident within ten years.
     Who is behind the late incident is an open question. So far no group has claimed the responsibility for the explosions.
     It could be the work of the enemies of Islam to create further divisions between Muslims. There is tension between Saudi Arabia, the protector of the Holy places of Islam and the Islamic republic of Iran. The incident might have been designed to increase tension between them.
     It could be a politically motivated act of a terrorist group aimed at getting publicity.
     This is guess works done from a distance. The culprits can be traced thorough investigation and this is the job of the security forces of Saudi Arabia to do it.
     No matter what the motive behind the incident, the act is crinn-naL No cause could justify killing innocent people in the Holy land and create fear in the mind of worshippers. Jami'at condemns this act of terrorism in the Holy city.
     We want to urge all our Muslim brothers, especially those in Saudi Arabia, to avoid hasty judgement about the suspects. We are afraid that due to existing problems between Islamic countries one may be tempted to suspect one Islamic country or the other of being behind the incident. Islam has ordered Muslims to investigate the incidents and avoid hasty judgement based on suspicions and rumors.
     Once the culprits are identified through investigation the whole Muslim world will condemn them it and support appropriate action against them.
     The security measures in the Holy cities are relatively good but there is a need for further measures to insure security of the worshippers.
     Mecca and Medina must remain peaceful so that all Muslims could worship Allah in peace.
   Prof. Rabbani visits Kunar province
     The Jami’at leader dis< cussed reconstruction is sues with the people of Kunar when he visited that province on June 27.
     Prof. Rabbani remained in Kunar four days, during which he visited the provincial capital, Asmar, Paich, Sarkany, Kbas Kunar, Sawky, Noorgul and Khaiwa districts.
     In Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar he discussed reconstruction issues with the council (Shoora)-of Kunar which represents seven parties of the Mujahideen. He also met with people from the Jamilur Rahman group (a Wahabi organization) which has considerable influence in Kunar. The organization is not part of the Shoora. Prof. Rabbani encouraged them to unite with the rest of the Mujahideen.
     In Asadabad he visited Kerala where several hundred people were massacred by the communist regime in 1978. Prof. Rabbani donated two million Afghanis to the council of Kunar.
     He visited Asmar and Peach districts where he was received warmly by the Mujahideen. He discussed with the commander ways of reconstruction of the damaged villages, mosques and irrigation system.
     During his visit to Khas Kunar he visited Shinkoory village. This was the village where Prof. Rabbani stayed one night when he was on his way to Pakistan in 1975 to avoid arrest by the communist regime. He met with the person who had given shelter to him in that difficult time and thanked him for his hospitality.
     Prof. Rabbani also talked with the Mujahideen in Sawki, Noorgul and Shaiwa districts, which are close to Jalalabad.
     The correspondent who accompanied Prof. Rabbani said the trip provided an opportunity for the professor, who is the minister of reconstruction oi‘ the interim government, to hear from the people their views about reconstruction of that province, which is totally under control of the Mujahideen.
     During the trip Mawlawi Ghulam Rabbani, the governor of Kunar, accompanied the Jami'at leader, the people were of the view that attention should be paid to the reconstruction of destroyed villages and irrigation systems!
                                                            ♦♦♦
----------------AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15, 1989, page ©
        Two million Muslims perform
                   Haj this year
      About two million Muslim performed haj this year and hundreds of millions celebrated Eid-ul-Adha throughout the world.
      Haj is one of the five pillars of the Islamic faith. Haj is visiting special places in the Holy land of Mecca at a specific time (haj season) to perform special rituals. Every adult and healthy Muslim who has financial ability has to perform haj once in life. It is good to repeat performing haj for those who can.
      Haj is performed during celebration of Eid-ul-Adha. Eid-ul-Adha is celebrated in commemoration of Ibrahim’s (peace be upon him) act of sacrificing his son, Ismail (peace be upon him), when he was told so by Almighty Allah.
      Allah told Ibrahim to sacrifice his young son, Ismail. It was an extraordinary command and a great test for the old father and the young son.
      He and his young son moved from Mecca to Mena, a spot a few miles outside Mecca, where he was supposed to sacrifice his son by shedding his blood.
      He consulted his son, Ismail, about the matter. Ismail told his father to do what he was told by Almighty Allah.
      They reached the spot on the first day of Eid. Ismail's hands and feet were tied with a rope and the Ibrahim put the knife in his son's throat
      Almighty Allah told Ibrahim that he succeeded in his great test. A sheep was sacrificed, instead. The incident was so great in the eyes of Allah that He ordered its celebration. Hajis do the same thing that Ibrahim did.
      Haj is the biggest gathering of Muslims in the world and is repeated every year. Muslims from all races and ethnic backgrounds wearing similar clothes gather in the Holy land. It gives opportunity for Muslims to meet their brothers from the rest of the world.
      This year about two million Muslims performed haj . Those who do not have the ability to celebrate the occasion in the Holy land, do it in their own towns and villages .
      Eid celebration included saying special prayers and slaughtering sheep, called Qurbani. It is a religious duty of every adult Muslim to sacrifice one sheep (or goat) during Eid if he has the
 financial means. The meat will be fed to the family of the person, his relatives and the poor.
      Eid-ul-Adha like is a happy occasion. People get together, exchange presents, wear their best clothes and renew their friendship. They are obliged to forgive their fellow brothers for the wrong they have done to them, visit neighbors, and the sick.
      In the past when there were no roads Muslims from far lands took the long journey to Mecca, which lasted several months. The Holy land has always been full of these people since Ibrahim founded Mecca and especially since Mecca was turned into the first Holy place of Muslims.
      Afghanistan being a land locked and poor country has sent a limited number of hajis to the Holy land.
      In the last years of the king's rule and during Daud’s time the number of Afghan hajis increased because of improved road transportation. It took about ten days of driving to reach the Holy land. It was much cheaper than flying, so a large number of-people-travelled by land.
      The communist coup of 1978 which was an anti-religion rebellion and the Soviet invasion of 1979 shattered such trips to the Holy land. The number of hajis was reduced from 20,000 to 2000.
      About five million Afghans became refugees in Pakistan and Iran. Refugees started to make use of the fa-
 cilities provided to them by the host countries to perform haj.
      This year more than 9,000 Afghan refugees in Pakistan had applied for visas to go to haj.
      Jamiat introduced 1300 hajis (of whom 80 were introduced by the Supervisory Council and came from Afghanistan for purpose of performing haj).
      Our correspondent says that the Ministary of haj of the interim government was not organizing the trip. The individual parties were involved in organizing the trip for their members.
      The number of hajis who perform haj through the Kabul regime is limited. This is due to the war situation and discouragement by the communist regime which considers haj a waste of time and money.
      More than that, the regime is suspicious about people who go to the Holy land because Saudi Arabia is friendly to the Mujahideen and some of the hajis do not return to Afghanistan.
      Afghan refugees in Iran made use of Iran's facilities to perform haj, but because of the problems between the Saudi government and Iran on the number of hajis, Iran has not sent any hajis' for two years. In 1987 about 400 hajis, mainly Iranians were killed in a clash with Saudi police when they staged a demonstration in the Holy city.
      A small number of Afghan refugees living in Europe, the US and Gulf States also perform haj every year.

Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) said:
m
you -aMthf se who a
                         m®Iei§
AFGHANews Val 5, No 14, July IS, 1989, page ©
Glimpses into the historical background of
Part (8)
The Islmic Movement in Afghanistan
      Breakdown of unity and emergence of "Harakat" as a new party:
      The Members of the Islamic Movement faced severe economic problems from the beginning of their migration to Pakistan. The Pakistani Government used to give some assistance to the early refugees. The contact person for receiving the assistance was Eng. Hikmatyar. When his relations with Jami'at grew sour, he would delay the delivery of the assistance and pretend that it was due to administrative hurdles. Prof. Rabbani could not do much to help the situation because Hikmatyar’s relations with the ruling party were strong.
      When Jami'at Islami and Hezb Islami were united under Mawlawi Nabi, Prof. Rabbani received some assistance from some Muslim sources out of Pakistan. We saw it as a great opportunity to strengthen the Movement and thought the sum should be used very carefully. Mawlawi Nabi, however, gave some of the money to Hikmatyar to use for military purposes. This action created some misgivings and questions. Firstly , Mawlawi Nabi had not consulted us, the members of the council of the unity. Secondly, we did not know how Hikmatyar would use the money. And thirdly, Hikmatyar was the head of the Cultural Committee. He did not pay much attention to the affairs for which he was responsible but meddled in die military affairs.
      Having the above considerations in mind, as well as a scarcity of resources, when Mawlawi Nabi gave instructions that more money be given to Hikmatyar, Mawlawi Fayez. the head of the Financial Committee, objected. He talked to Mawlawi Nabi and argued that if his instructions wop carried out, the treasury would be empty. They would not have enough even to pay the rent for die house in which they had their offices.
 T~r\ he situation look a bizarre turn at I this point. The treasurer disap-^ peared with the cash. It was suspected that his disappearance was part of a plot. What raised that suspicion was die fact that he was a Hezb Islami member and Mr. Hikmatyar’s confidant A few days later die building which housed the offices of our unity organization—i.e., Harakat Inqlab Islami—was occupied by a group of youths.
      The next day I participated in a
 meeting of Jami'at's prominent members in one of Jami'at's offices in Faqirabad. Mawlawi Mohammadi was also present in the meeting. We discussed die issue of the occupation. It was said that the youths had some questions to ask on behalf of unity council members. If their questions were answered satisfactorily, they would end then occupation.
 I asked about the identity of those "revolutionary" youth. Only some participants kliew some of than. I asked if any Jami'at young members were among them. The answer was "No." I asked about the leader of that group. The answer was that he was Abdullah, a staunch supporter of Eng. Hikmatyar. I said it was clear that "the revolution" had taken place at the order of Hikmatyar. Our complaint should be directed to Eng. Hikmatyar himself-and not to the youths.
       During die meeting we received a message from Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin that they wanted to talk to us on the issue. We said-we would let them know about the time and. place of the meeting in the future. Everyone agreed with that proposal except Mawlawi Nabi who was insisting that we should have met Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin in that very meeting.
       I am not sure if Jami'at and Hezb leadership ever met to discuss the issue. What I know is the fact that, from the time we started contacts with Hezb Islami for unity until unity was formed under Mawlawi Fayez and Mawlawi Nabi's leadership, we were always driven into a comer. The reason was that Hezb always wanted to be the decision maker and to issue orders. It expected us to merely obey. We did not want to . continue such an unfair and frustrating relationship. Thus, we decided to stay away from them for a while. In fact, they themselves drove us away.
       As for Mawlawi Nabi, I think he wanted to join one of the two parties which had broken off from the unity. Some others, however, encouraged him to remain as die President of Harakat Inqlab Islami. They argued that those who had broken off were guilty and would soon rejoin. Thus, a third party was created and made the issue of unity among the members of the Islamic Movement more complicated.
       Formation of Jabha Nejat Milli (National Liberation Front):
       Earlier I referred to some moves
 by some prominent Afghan personalities—including Prof. Rabbani--to form a broad national front to strive for liberation of the country. The aim was to bring together various individuals and parties in order tp organize and unite their forces for a liberation of Afghanistan from Russian domination. The parties could have their independence in matters other than Jihad.
       Some meetings had taken place in the holy city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia. As I understood. Prof. Rabbani and Sebghatullah Mujaddidi had been assigned to work for the formation of die front Thus, Mr. Mujaddidi came to Peshawar.
       Prof. Rabbani and Mr. Mujaddidi began the work together. They were able to win the cooperation of a large number of Afghan refugees from various regions and ethnic groups. Jami'at Islami coordinated its activities with the National Liberation Front Hezb Islami of Hekmatyar, Harakat of Mawlawi Nabi and Sayed Ahmad Gailani woe also invited to cooperate with die front The invitations, however, was rejected. Thus, Jami'at became the backbone of Jabha (the Front). Most of the Jabha workers, especially the heads of various committees, were Jami'at members.
 Jabha held numerous meetings and invited prominent personalities. A large number of influencial people in the parties and tribes participated in those meetings. The topic under discussion was the method of carrying out a struggle against the communists. Two points of view emerged from the discussions:
       (1) Launching a comprehensive struggle by all strata of the people in all die cities and regions in order to demoralize the military and to scatter the puppet regime's efforts. Hie majority of the participants in the meetings held this point of view.
       (2) Guerrilla activities and acts of self-sacrifice to the extedt possible. Eng. Hikmatyar and Qazi Amin—who participated in the meetings despite their refusal to work with Jabha—were of this view- Mazharuddin Shaivan of Jami'at also preferred this point of view.
       The arguments in favor of the second viewpoint was that the first method would lead to a lot of kilting and injury, and would create problems beyond our capability to handle.
                                                                                                                              Turn to page (7)
-------AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page 0
Gromyko dies
      Andrei Gromyko, who served as the the Soviet foreign minister for 30 years, died at the age of 79 in Moscow on July 1.
      Gromyko, who started his carrier during the time of Stalin had participated in the discussions which led to the signing of Hiteler-Stalin treaty of 19(39. He shaped Soviet foreign policy during the rule of Krushchev and Brezhnev.
      In 1956 he became a member of Politburo and one year later was appointed foreign minister of the Soviet Union. The aggressive Soviet policy of spreading communism in Middle East and Latin America and protecting the dictatorial system in Eastern Europe
 Moreover, because of the enemy's military superiority, overcoming it in an open war was deemed impossible. Thus, the argument went, guerrilla warfare would be preferable in such circumstances.
      The majority, on the other hand, argued that failing to incite a general uprising would give time to the enemy to firm its base, win more members, recruit more youth into military service, and employ more spies.
      What encouraged those who favored a general uprising was the news from inside Afghanistan which showed the readiness of all the people-government officials, military officers, and the general public-to raise against the puppet government. The news about the government’s distribution of arms among the PDPA members also strengthened the argument that we should have moved fast
      We had a separate set of meetings among those who worked with Jabha. Participants of those meetings had the duty to submit information about uprisings and military activities in various parts of the country to the leadership. For that purpose, committees consisting of the people of different provinces were formed in order to design military plans for the respective provinces. In the meantime, the Executive Council of the Jabha had regular and fervent meetings.
       The writer served as the secretary of Jabha and was a member of its Executive Council. Our discussions and activities focussed on the following:
       (1)        Organizing Jabha offices— especially the military committee.
       (2)  Contacting Arab countries to
 was evolved under Gromyko.
      He played a key role in the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 and the Afghanistan invasion of 1979.
      For Afghans Gromyko was not an ordinary man. He and his shaky boss, Brezhnev, started a fire in Afghanistan which burned about a million and is still burning.
      The Present Soviet leadership gives the impression that it has distanced itself from the foreign policy which Gromyko evolved. Since the expan tionistdreams of the Soviet empire have not changed, Gromyko's tactics will be needed by Soviet leaders with some minor changes.
 gain their support for the cause and to collect financial donations.
      (3)      Contacting the members of Jabha abroad and assigning them to collect donations and gain governments' support for our cause.
      (4)      Preparation of a flag and motto.
      (5)       Procurement of arms and ammunitions.
      (6)      Organizing Jihad activities inside Afghanistan.
      (7)      Coordinating the activities of Jabha and Jami'al Islami in Peshawar.
      Notes. T. Mawlawi Mohammad Yunus Khatis broke off Hezb Islami when Hezb and Jami'al had formed a unity. Later, his faction emerged as an independent party with the same name of Hezb Islami.
      2.      When Sayed Ahmad Gailani came to Pakistan as a refugee, different parties tried in vain to enlist him. Finally Mawlawi Mohammadi won him over by appointing him as Amir (leader) of Harakat Inqlab Islami. It die not last long, however/Soon Gailani formed his own party called Mahaz Milli Islami (National Islamic Front and Mawlawi Nabi remained the leader ofHarakaL
      3.       When Jami'at Islami left Jabha, the latter emerged as a separate independent party. Thus, the number of Mujahideen organizations reached six:
      Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, Hezb Islami Afghanistan under the leadership of Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami Afghanistan under the leadership of Mawlawi Khalis, Harakat Inqlab Islami Afghanistan Jabha Nejat Milli Afghanistan and Mahaz Milli Islami Afghanistan.
                                            Regime pilots, diplomat defect
    Two regime helicopters were brought^ to Quetta and one jet to Peshawar by pilots seeking asylum. The second secretary of the regime embassy in Islamabad has joined the Mujahideen.
    Hie three incidents happened within a few days. The pilots who have brought their families with them have sought asylum from Pakistani authorities.
    According to the pilot, the radar installations of Kandahar airport were destroyed by the Mujahideen attack of June 29. This enabled them to change the direction of their flight without being detected by the regime fences in Kandahar.
    Ai^iinejetlaDded in Peshawar on July 6. The plane, a SU-22 jet, was on a bombing mission in Jalalabad front when it entered Pakistan with die purpose of seeking asylum.
    The Pilot, Captain Jan Mohammad, said that he flew from Bagram air base to bomb Mujahideen portions in Jalalabad front He made use of the opportunity to fly to Pakistan to join the Mujahideen.
    A regime diplomat, Abdul Wakeel Bahramand, defected to the Mujahideen on July 6. He was a second secretary at the regime embassy in Islamabad.
                                             Tehran-Moscow close ties
                                                   From page (8)
 each other affairs. These beautiful words have been used by Soviets as a cover for aggression and they are still using them in their interference in Afghanistan.
      We Afghans have patiently listened to the warning from our Iranian brothers about the danger of western influence in the political and social system of Afghanistan. We expect them to pay attention to Afghans warnings about the danger of Soviet imperialism; Afghans know die Soviets better than any other nation in the world.
      Iran must be careful about a system which defies the existence of Goc and has a record of tyranny at home and aggression abroad.
 Yaqoub Khan visits Tehran Pakistan foreign minister, Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan, discussed Afghan situation with Iranian leaders when he arrived in Tehran on a one-day visit on July 1.
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
                                 From Page (6)
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 14, July 15,1989, page ©
             Afghans worried about Tehran’s close ties with Moscow
                       By: Habibur Rahman
      The quick improvement in Soviet-Iran relations is a source of concern to Afghans who are still engaged in a war against the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul.
      To Afghans who speak the language as Iranians the slogan of "no east, no west" is well known and even some ordinary workers who have lived in Iran for a while use it in arguments with shopkeepers and their fellow workers.
      Afghans were listening to the radio broadcast of Friday prayers in Tehran in which the worshippers repeated the slogan of "down with America, down with Russia.” They condemned America for its support to Israel and USSR for persecution of Muslims and invasion of Afghanistan.
      Iranian leaders repeatedly warned their Afghan brothers that they should aware of western plots against Islam.
      I was among a delegation of Afghan Mujahideen who met with President Khamenei when he visited Pakistan some years ago. After a few sentences in praise of Afghans he spend most of his time warning the Mujahideen of the western plot against Islam and advised them to preserve their revolution from outside interference.
      Other Iranian personalities have taken similar position. When Prof. Rabbani paid an official visit to the US in 1986, the Iranian media give him a hard time during his trip to Tehran. According to them, the trip was against the interest of Afghans and jeopardized the independent nature of the Afghan resistance.
        The Soviet behavior towards Muslims in general and Afghans in particular is not unknown to Iranian leaders. The Soviet interference in Iranian affairs and the activities of Soviet agents under the name of Todeh party is a recorded fact, which led to banning that party.
      How could "the small Satan” turned into a good neighbor without abandoning its behavior? How one can believe that Soviet Union is not trying the expand its influence in third world countries, especially the neighboring countries? Rafsanjanis statement that Iran and Soviet cooperation can cut outsiders interference in the region is in-
 comprhensible to Afghans. The Soviet Union, with a record of killing at least one million muslims in Afghanistan, half of whom have been killed during Gorbachev’s rule, cannot become a guarantor of peace and an equal partner to smaller states in the region. The Soviet empire has been created through military expansion and Russification of other nationalities especially muslims in central Asia. The Invasion of Afghanistan was part of the same drive of exporting communism to neighboring countries and spreading of Russian influence.
       Iranian leaders have special responsibility towards the problem of Afghanistan. Afghanistan is their neighbor and Afghans have a common culture, history and religion with Iranians.
       How could the Iranian relations with the Soviets improve while the Soviets are still involved in killing Afghans and are trying to prevent Afghans from choosing their destiny?
       Vorontsov's diplomacy is a true example of the Soviet policy towards Afghanistan. He wants to divide Afghans and create misunderstanding between neighboring countries who support the Mujahideen. He wants to encourage Iran-based Mujahideen parties in Iran to make a deal with the communists in Kabul and warns Iran against "western influence” among the Pakistan-based parties.
       We expect that Iranian leaders will take a clear stand in support of the Mujahideen. The language used in the final communique of Iran and Soviet Union after Rafsanjani's trip to Moscow was so general that Iran’s position on Afghanistan was not distinguishable from the position of Soviet Union which is responsible for all the tragedy in Afghanistan. The declaration can be a clever diplomatic piece but does not suit the revolutionary nature of the Islamic Republic. And since this position has been taken after the death of the Imam it could be more alarming.
       The size, economic foundation and social and political system of Iran and Soviet Union cannot make them equal partners who do not interfere in
                                                                                                                        Turn to page ( 7 )
     The Afghan issue was a main topic of discussion between Benazir Bhutto and Margaret Thatcher during the official visit of the Prime Minister of Pakistan to London this month.
 , The British government has supported the liberation war of Afghans against the Soviet invaders and supports the right of Afghans for self-determination;
     After talks between the two leaders, officials of the two countries said their views on the Afghan issue were identical.
     It seems the two sides have emphasized the need for a political solution and maintenance of military pressure to achieve that political solution.
     The British government has asked for the removal of Najib's government as a step towards finding a political solution to the problem.
     A few days before leaving to London, Benazir Bhutto visited the head of the Afghan interim government and other Mujahideen leaders to hear thier views on the situation.
     Yaqoub Khan, the foreign minister of Pakistan flew to Tehran where he met with Iranian leaders and the resistance groups based in Tehran. The Afghan issue was the main topic of Yaqoub Khan's discussion with his Iranian counterparts. The visit came after Rafsanjani's trip to Soviet Union, which resulted in improved ties between the two countries and before Benazir's visit to London.
                                                Mujahideen release POWs
     The Mujahideen released 37 prisoners of on July 5 in Ghaziabad farm beween Jalalabad and Torkham.
     The prisoners were captured three months ago when -Samarkhail garrison about 22 kilometers east of Jalalabad was overrun by the Mujahideen.
     A number of foreign journalists were invited to report the event. It is a move by the Mujahideen to counter regime charges that the resistance kills prisoners of war. Among the prisoners released there was a teenager who according to the camp commander, Awal Gul, had killed one Mujahid and injured another.