
                              And why should ye not fight in the cause of Ciod and of thns< who, being weak, are ill-treated and oppressed? — IV/75
Til
i
JLlifVB
U
IU1
Mil I
THE VOICE OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
H!LY/AlICil!ST 19X2
                THE UNKNOWN AND UNSUNG MARTYRED MUJAHIDS OF JAMIAT-MSLAMt AFGHANISTAN WHO FEU VICTIM TO THE RUSSIAN BARBARISM AND AGGRESSION IN AFGHANISTAN
a jygfd I r
M i$h         n 11 ah
< i

                                                                                                Abdul Qayvss
                                                                                              Muni
                                      C%yi|pr .* a   i $
                                                                                                     . ; U;r*i


                             And why should ye not fight in the cause of God and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated and oppressed ? — IV/75
              THE VOICE OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN "^/august 19*2
Vol. I, No. 4          July/August 1982           Price:  US $ 3.00
Tragic Blows on Islam and the Indifference of Muslims             7
—   Tragic Blows on Islam and the Indifference of Muslims         7
—   Interview with Mr. Mohammad Anwar Kakar,                     10
      Ex-Ambassador of Afghanistan in Bangladesh
—   The Fifth Crushing Defeat of Russians in Panjshir            17
—   Direct Co-operation of the Present Indian Government         23
      with the K.GJB.
—   Interview with Mujahid Brother Safiullah, Commander          26
      of the Herat Front
—   Problems in the Issue of Afghanistan                         31
—   Reports from the Battle Fronts of Fighting between the       41
      Truth and the Falsehood
                          A bi-monthly publication of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan
OUR Mono
                                            ALLAH IS OUR ULTIMATE
                                                           t\%-^
PROPHET               LEADER
THE HOLY QURA^T IS OUR INSTITUTION MARTYRDOM IN THE WAY OP ALLAH IS OUR HIGHEST DESIRE JIHAD IS OUR WAY
    Published by
    The Scientific and Advisory Society of the Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan Post Box No. 1181 Islamabad - PAKISTAN.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani Acc. No. 100 Habib Bank Ltd.
Kochi Bazar Branch Peshawar - PAKISTAN.
                                  2
EDITORIAL
                                       NEW TACTICS OF MASSACRES
 RUSSIAN CRIMES AND IN AFGHANISTAN
        After the invasion of the savage Red Army and use of the most-deadly and sophisticated weapons by them against the people of Afghanistan, the Russians were disappointed to find that their plans yielded the opposite results rather than what had been forecast by the Kremlin masters.
        The steadfastness and heroic resistance of the Afghan God-believing Muslim nation against the impious “WARSAW TREATY”, and the Russian failure that even by use of savage bombardment and the most advanced artillery they were not able to crush their morale, caused the Kremlin masters to use the devilish trickery learnt from their past invasions on Turkistan and Bukhara once again in Afghanistan. The Russians thought that by recruitment of self-selling elements, by sowing seeds of discord and by fomenting conflict among the freedom-fighters and by taking advantage of political hypocrisies and treacheries, they would be able to divert Mupahideen's attention from the main course of Jehad (The Holy War) and would cool down sentiments of freedom and patriotism of the heroic Afghan Mujahideen. But all these devilish activities of the great Satan proved ineffective against the determination of the Afghan devoted nation and the resistance grew ever stronger.
        Russians, shamefully ordered their soul-selling agents to use Afghans against the Afghans to achieve their purpose. Their resort to indiscriminate use of compulsory draft of young and old Afghans from all walks of life for the military service and then sending them to battle fronts without any proper training, is yet another atrocious crime of the Russians. Their main aim is to put these people in the front line to protect their Red army and force them to confrontation with their Mujahid brothers. Casualties from both sides would be of the same Afghans and so this would save the Red troops. This has resulted in thousands of Afghan families to lose their guardians and heads which eventually would force them to submission. In the same way the puppet regime forces, the professional workers, officials, engineers, university professors, doctors and other intellectuals are
                                      3
 Brimming with optimism, Professor Burhanuddin                  with his
 devoted Mujahid brothers look to the future with determination the people who never bow before expansionists, colonizers, aggressors,
                        invaders and oppressors.
 being forced to accept membership of the Communist party with the idea that after a short time they would be sent to the battlefronts. Consequently they would either be killed outside or defeated and the Russians would find opportunity to fill all their positions by their own people and the K.G.B. members. As a result of this, hundreds of university professors, engineers, doctors, technical personnel of factories, scientific institutions and hospitals, have fled from the country as a result of Russian cruelties and tyrannies. Those who refuse to accept the membership of the communist party are imprisoned or even executed.
        The outcome of forcing farmers, workers and specialists to join the ranks of the Communist party and the socalled Volunteer Force to fight against Mujahideen has been that agricultural production has dropped down to the lowest level, trading and economic activity has been paralyzed and poverty, hunger and famine are gripping the whole people. Russians who imposed all this situation on Afghanistan by spending enormous amounts of money, planned to employ teenagers from poor Muslim families to ‘co-operate’ with the government. Since
                                   4
 they must work for sheer survival of their families, gradually the beliefs of these families would be changed. But these savage plans plotted by the treacherous Russians in Afghanistan disturbed the peaceful living of the people thus forcing them to seek refuge in foreign countries under very difficult conditions — conditions of famine, starvation torture and civic degradation, conditions that are impossible for a free and peace-loving respectful nation under which to continue living. Foodstuffs prices in Afghanistan have gone sky high almost out of the reach of the people. These are the things that the Russians are shamelessly committing in Afghanistan and their crimes and massacres have caused millions of Afghans to seek refuge out of their country. The world people though astonishingly, nay shockingly, are looking at the Russians’ evil deeds as mute spectators, but nothing positive has been done to save the Afghan nation from going into the clutches of the Russian bear.
               More than 3 million innocent women, children, young and old men have been forced out of their homes and forced to migrate to Pakistan and Iran. Some of them live in miserable conditions in tented refugee camps in severe weather conditions.
                                                    6
                   TRAGIC BLOWS ON ISLAM AND THE INDIFFERENCE OF MUSLIMS
      When Mohammad (PBUH) bin Abdullah received the order of being appointed as the Messenger of Allah and brought the message of freedom and humanism to the oppressed and afflicted people of the globe, he had no other device than the power of Faith for inviting the people towards the valued high believes and the recognition of honourable position for the human beings. In achieving this glorious goal, no one but God helped him. History is a witness that Mohammad (PBUH), the Messenger of God solely struggled all by himself against the devilish and evil deeds of people at that time and with half of his Faith and Belief, he demolished the palaces of all the oppressors and tyrants. In a very difficult situation and among such an ignorant people that the Arabs then were, he raised the banner of righteousness and justice in oraer to lead people in the cause of God — the way of values and movement and humanity. And finally he succeeded in guiding not only his people on tne way to their welfare and deliverance, but also all over the world, the people had been saved from indignity, idolatory, infidelity and ignorance. His ultimate goal in this struggle was righteousness and inviting people to the path of rightness and the annihilation of oppressors and tyrants. There was no oil, aircraft and other modern weapons, but the only thing that sustained him, was his rightness, sincerity, and Faith in his work. This is how he could gather all the Araos and the non-Arabs to accept his invitation to the religion of Islam — of a religion of peace and amity.
      About fourteen-hundred years have passed since that time, and Islam has faced and survived various problems and enemies. Numerous aggressors and blood-suckers had attacked Islamic territories and massacred innocent Muslims, but no one could succeed to rule in the Islamic territories without suffering heavy casualties and damages and for long. Rather they have not been able to achieve anything in the Islamic countries. Good Muslims are always armed with the divine power. They were armed with this power till colonization found its domination and closer contact with them. When Muslims started to deviate from their main path and root, their essence and conditions were changed to selfish ambitions and undisciplined conditions. Unnecessary imitation of others has blunted their own thinking ability and initiative and the result was their despicableness and degeneration. Thus some Muslims lost their own essence, originality and honour.
                                                7
       Adversaries of Islam, waiting in ambush, were seeking a proper pretext and opportunity to exploit the weakness and carelessness of Muslims. Specially in the last two centuries, they attacked Muslim-believers’ lives and properties and didn't hesitate to apply their savage and atrocious deeds. The invasion of Turkistan by Russians resulted in the destruction of precious Islamic culture of that country and it was one of the heart-breaking events in the Islamic world, when its defending was the obligation of all world Muslims but they did no part. Consequently, the Tzars alongwith their communist infidels were encouraged to run-down Bukhara with their infidel hordes and destroy its mosques and madrasas (religious schools) and kill the non-conforming Muslims in a tragic way.
       This bloody manoeuvres of the Russian social imperialists encouraged Zionists to push out Palestinians from their fatherland and to take the first Kibla (direction towards which Muslims turn in praying) of Muslims in their hands, and once again, the Islamic world didn’t show any reaction. The negative reaction and inattention of Muslim leaders against such deeds, again vetted the greed of Red Imperialists to commit a savage aggression on the innocent Muslim people of Afghanistan. Here they have applied all kind of crimes and barbarism that they had learned thus far. Russian invasion of Afghanistan in the second half of the 20th century, at a time when all Muslim
                    A building totally destroyed in the attack by the Russians.
                                              8 •
 countries enjoyed the advance military facilities for defence and for waging Jehad, made it incumbent on all Muslim countries of the world to have mobilized Jehad against the Red heathen army and they should have taken share in the Jehad against the great common enemy of Islam by helping their Afghan Muslim brethren in accordance with the valuable tenet of the Holy Quran. But unfortunately, not even a sound has been heard from most of these leaders. Contrarily some of them even continued their economic and social co-operation totally for the benefit of the Russians. This indifference of the Muslims caused the Russians to continue and increase their impudence and ruthlessness by massacring the innocent people, plundering the national wealth, destroying the villages and committing many other heinous crimes — such as the use of chemical gas etc., for mass killings. The Russians didn’t limit their blood-shedding and plundering to this country alone, but conversely tried to take a further step by using their servant agents inside the Muslim countries to cause disturbances and coup d’etats, in order to apply the same plan as in Afghanistan, on other Muslim countries.
       The war between the Muslim nations of Iran and Iraq is a clear example which has been caused by expansionists, specially by the conspiracies of the Russian social imperialism. It is about two years since this disaster started, a most unique and unexampled event in the history of Islam. Millions of Muslims have been watching in films and televisions the bloodshed and fratricide between these two Muslim countries. These Muslims must be smiling by watching these scenes of fighting, instead of taking some action to unravel the two combatants and thus save more killing of the Muslim on both sides. It is being showed off as if nothing is happening It is a thousand pities that Indira Gandhi and Fidel Castro both shed their crocodile tears on the killings and casualties of Iran-Iraq war, but no action except for useless talks, has been taken even by the other Muslims. It is for sure these countries having expansionist designs against other Muslim lands don’t let the Muslim nations to mediate for a compromise and ceasefire. But if they started their practical activities by exerting effective pressures for the disarmament of both sides this shameful disaster and fratricide wouldn’t be continuing any longer.
       Israel’s attacks on Lebanon and Palestine and the massacre of thousands of Muslims, are all reasons of despicableness, indifference and carelessness of the Muslim nations against the colonization — the enemy of freedom and Faith. If such state of affairs persist, in this manner the predestination of Muslim territories will finally be in the hands of the imperialism and its military forces. Their lands would be used for the manoeuvre of the expansionists army. In this way there will be no sign of the present ruling governments and their existing palaces and their authority.
                                    9
                       INTERVIEW WITH
                    MR. MOHAMMAD ANWAR KAKAR
    Ex-Ambassador of
                    Afghanistan in Bangladesh
       Mr. Mohammad Anwar Kakar (51) is a graduate of Kabul University and has worked in different departments of the government of Afghanistan for about twenty six years. His last assignment was as ambassador of his country to Bangladesh. He quit his job after the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and migrated to Pakistan. The correspondent of “Mirror of Jehad” held an interview with him, English translation of which is reproduced below:
 1.  Q. When did you plan to quit the job of the embassy ?
     A. I left the job of the embassy after the invasion and aggression of the Red army in our beloved country.
 2.  Q. What were the principle considerations for you for suddenly
        leaving all the privileges and associating yourself in the active work of Mujahideen ?
     A. The principle motives were Islamic religion, Afghan nationalism, the defence of the country and my oppressed people.
 3.  Q. I think that you could have had better diplomatic privileges in
        other countries. However what was the pressing reason that you preferred to come to Pakistan ?
     A. Because most of my refugee brothers are living in the neighbouring and brother country of Pakistan and this is the nearest place to be associated in the Jehad of the Right against the Falsehood.
 4.  Q. Are you interested to participate in the armed struggle inside
        Afghanistan?
                                     10
A group of Mujahideen in one of the Afghan villages. Most were students and government officials at one time. They and millions of others like them have risen against Russian aggressors to defend the re'ig:on, liberty and independence of their motherland. They have left their government jobs after the Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
    A. Yes, this was also the reason why I wanted to be associated with Mujahideen.
5.   Q. How do you explain the present condition of your country ?
    -A. Our invaded country and peace-loving nation were respecting and adhering to all the principles of morality and humanity and they didn’t have any better wishes than that of peace in the region and in the world. But it has been invaded and aggressed upon by the most cruel and ruthless army of the world. With the help of most modem and developed weapons the war has been imposed on our people. The Mujahid Afghan nation are resisting heroically against the wild and aggressive forces. With all our difficulties coupled with not having the necessary weapons and armours to resist the aggressors the people of the world are yet witnessing a brave example of self-sacrifice, devotion and cham-
                                       11
       pionship of Afghan people and marvelling at their guts. The people of the world must also be observing or hearing of the massacre of hundreds of thousands of innocent children, infants, women and men and destruction of thousands of their villages, farms and homes and the killing of millions of animals by air bombardment and artilleries of the aggressor and invading enemy.
           The Jehad (holy war) in Afghanistan has been changed to the uprising and resistance of the whole nation and this factual position has been admitted by all Muslim, non-aligned, neutral, peace-loving and free nations of the world. And in contrast, actions of the enemy have been condemned. Afghans are fighting for their freedom, for Islam, peace, security and their justified rights and privileges but the timorous and creedless enemy are performing crimes and felonious actions to occupy an independent and non-aligned country and impose infidelity, blasphemy, despotism, and slavery and are still continuing felonious actions.
           Afghans are trying to fulfil their moral responsibilities and duties bravely by defending their rights, to uphold justice, maintain security and peace and for the prevention of corruption and expansionism, with such grit and courage which is unparalleled in the present century. By dauntless courage and sheer bravery and with their belief in the Justice of God, the Afghans are striking very heavy blows on the body of this destructive monster. This in brief is about the present situation in Afghan istan.
6.   Q. What do you think about the continuation of war and the
       resistance of your own people ?
     A. The war will continue, unless the invading forces withdraw theii troops without any condition. With God’s help the resistance of Afghan Mujahideen is increasing day by day and will continue to be so (Insha-Allah).
7.   Q. How in your personal opinion do you seek the mystery of the
        victory of Afghanistan Jehad ?
     A. The secrets of the victory of Jehad are: trust in God; presence of a united and well-organized political association; uniform and effective propaganda; and publicity to draw the attention and support of world nations and peace-loving countries and international associations; search for the political solution of
                                   12
       the issue; better mobilization and equipping the resistance force; efficient command on the battle fronts; unity and order in the ranks; effective communication system; better and ample ammunitions; cooperation and coordination in the operations; awareness about the movement and strategy and tactics of the enemy (time, number and type of weapons); effective propaganda in the battle field; organization of the health service and acquaintance of the people and Mujahideen with the first-aid, acquiring better cooperation of the people; settlement of the
              An old brave man like thousands of others of his age, who decided not to put his sword till complete victory of the Afghans
                                     13
        problems in short time and prevention of the influence of enemy in the ranks of Mujahideen and among the people.
 3. Q. Do you think that Russians would withdraw their forces on their own ?
     A. There will be no obstacle against them if they would like to withdraw their troops, but as far as I can see, Russians will not pull out their troops without determined national resistance and strong international pressure.
 9.  Q. What was the main reason for the Russian invasion of Afghan-
        istan?
     A. In my opinion, the principle purpose of the Russians invasion is a part of their completely pre-planned expansionist policy. In the first stage they want to have complete domination over Afghanistan in order to change the country into a large Russian military base and use its untapped natural resources. The next step would be the access to the warm waters and having domination over the energy resources of the Gulf countries and their commercial ways and finding markets for forcible selling of their industrial goods. In this way they are going to weaken the economic bases of the world and create anarchy in the countries in order to eliminate their political stability and impose their expansionist plans to achieve their final goal of domination and control over the world.
 10. Q. Do you think that Russians would succeed in their desire ?
     A. The conscious Jehad (holy war) of Afghan Muslim Mujahideen and their heroic resistance against the invasion of the dangerous super power has revealed the Russian ominous plans and cautioned the world against its bad consequences. The Russians would not succeed in their nefarious designs if all the Muslims, the independent and peace-loving countries of the world act together and continue their unremitting struggle against the expansionists and the enemy of the world’s peace and security unitedly.
 11. Q. What do you think about the world reaction On this issue ? Is
        it enough and effective ?
     A. The reaction of the world against Russian invasion of Afghanistan has been effective to some extent but not enough for liquidating the Russian aggression.
12. Q. What is your opinion about the recent Geneva Conference ?
       Would this conference have a good result without participation of the representatives of Afghan Mujahideen ?
    A. Geneva Conference is a preliminary step for the opening of the full dialogue but it would not have the desired result without participation of the affected party i.e. the Mujahideen.
13. Q. What would be the reasonable and practicle solution of the
       Afghanistan problem ?
    A. In my opinion the problem can be solved by complete and unconditional withdrawal of the invading troops from Afghanistan and payment of war damages by the invader and an international authoritative guarantee about non-intervention in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, respect for the national sovereignty, territorial integrity, securing independence and non-alignment of Afghanistan by observance of the principles of the United Nations Charter, international treaties; voluntary return of the refugees to their own country and establishment of a government in accordance with the wishes of the people through an independent and fair general elections.
Revolutionary boys singing national songs of liberty and freedom.
                                      15
 14. Q. What type of government would you propose for the future of
        Afghanistan?
     A. Determination of the type of a government is the sole authority of all the Muslim and Mujahid people of our country. Also fixing of predestination of future of the country is in the hands of our own people. As an individual person, 1 prefer the Islamic Republic government through free and democratic general elections without fear, anxiety and pressure. This could be one of the best type of government for my Muslim and Mujahid people.
 15. Q. Do you think that all these destructions and ruins arising out of
        the war would be repaired and would peace be restored in Afghanistan ?
     A. Afghanistan, our beloved country, has been turned almost completely into ruins, and its reconstruction would need lot of efforts and big budgets. But I am sure that a nation which is bravely defending their motherland would have the same zeal and power to re-construct it. The present tension has not arisen as a result of any disagreement amongst the people, but it is the result of interference of foreigners. Therefore, by eliminating this principle factor, our people would live in a peaceful and comfortable environment and so be able to catch upon the last time and rehabilitate themselves. A group of agents, would not be able to disturb the stability, peace, security and comforts of our society.
 16. Q. Do you feel comfortable by working in the battle fronts of
        Mujahideen as compared to your earlier work as our ambassador ?
     A. Although it is very difficult to expatriate and migrate from the country, but I feel comfortable in the thought that I am performing my moral, religious and national duties conscientiously with full responsibility in a direct way shoulder to shoulder with my Mujahid brothers. And so I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to discuss in this interview the difficulties of our beloved country.
                                    16
               THE FIFTH CRUSHING DEFEAT OF RUSSIANS IN PANJSHIR
      Eight months after the fourth defeat of Russians in Panjshir, they once again made assault on this beautiful valley, which has now been changed to one of the most redoubtable strongholds of Islam in Afghanistan. In these eight months however the enemy air raids continued intermittantly.
     The enemy attack on Panjshir Valley was not an unexpected one. Mujahideen had known about the enemy’s plan. For this, first of all, the Mujahideen attacked Bagram air base to delay the enemy programme so that they could prepare themselves to face it when it came. What the Mujahideen had not anticipated accurately was, however the landing of troops from the air and the enemy’s broad attack from all possible sides. The Russians landed their troops by helicopters at four points along the Valley within two days, from May 15th to 17th. This was a new tactic which the Russians resorted to recently. Their aim was to mount a quick attack on the Mujahideen in order to engage them at many points and thus weaken their defensive power. In this way they wanted to break contact of Mujahideen groups with each other. Russians started their attack with 190 helicopters, 20 jets, 12000-18000 infantrymen, hundreds of tanks and armoured vehicles, artillery, machineguns and land-to-land rockets. Initially they wanted to clear the Valley of Mujahideen so that later on they could gradually settle the account with the pro-Mujahideen inhabitants.
      For fear of disclosure of their plans to the Mujahideen, the enemy prepared their war plans in Russia and arranged for despatch of guerrilla troops who had special trainings in countries with similar topography directly from those places to implement this mission in Panjshir. This was as disclosed by Bahramuddin, the pilot who was captured after his plane was shot down. The Russian plan was to first withdraw all bombardment crew and later flew the invading troops directly from Termiz (air base on the Russian soil) to Panjshir.
      The enemy firstly wanted to capture or destroy heavy weaponries of the Mujahideen by commando forces and then by intense bombardment to encircle and suppress the Mujahideen forces. The intensity of bombardment can be imagined from the number and
                                   17
                 A group of devoted Mujahideen with Commander Masood (4th from right).
variety of bomber planes which were used for the purpose, the SU-24 planes, which are manoeuvrable in narrow valleys. Alongwith these, Mig fighters were used without stop to drop hundreds of tons bombs on people, villages, cultivated lands and irrigation systems. Different types of Napalm and cluster bombs were also used in this attack.
      Helicopters landed their crews at strategic points, launching rockets on people in order to guard their troops who had encircled the villages. As revealed by Commander Masoud, bombardment on the Valley was continued for seven hours without stop. During the night the enemy shelled the valley with BM-24 rockets. This bombardment, was the most horrible and dreadful of all the previous ones.
      Villagers who had left their houses alongwith their families and children were hiding themselves inside the caves on the mountains. Although the heroic Mujahideen, who were fighting for the cause of Allah Almighty, were quite small in numbers as compared to the enemy troops, they were very determined and strong in their faith and kept on extremely high morale, their belief being the strongest weapon which helped them defeat the enemy who was armed to the teeth.
                                    18
       In the first few days contact between Mujahideen remained broken off. They were supposed to make their own plans for defence or manoeuvers and supply of provisions and ammunition.
       On the first day Mujahideen of Islam destroyed almost ell the commando troops of the enemy in Rukha, the center of sub division. They captured large quantity of arms and ammunitions. They gradually gained control over the situation and connection between their groups were re-established. The offensive action of the Russians however continued for 20 days, but still the enemy could not do anything. The plan to capture heavy weaponry was neutralized and the Mujahideen were able to defeat the enemy and inflict heavy casualties on them.
       On the first day, the Mujahideen shot down five helicopters in Rukha. This was what the Panjshir people were looking for. In order to lay siege of the valley completely, the enemy planted mines in the mountains. Mujahideen were faced with shortage of foodstuffs but their Headquarter decided to share the foodstuffs with the starving people. The enemy thought they would be able to force the people to submission by blockade of their food supplies and through heavy bombardment. But they had counted without the fact that Mujahideen and the people were so closely linked to each other to defy their plans and juggleries.
       After 20 days of heavy fightings the enemy found it to their dismay the end of their plans. Russians own heavy casualties, the Mujahideen stout resistance and the people’s determination and steadfastness were unpredictable to the enemy. Russians continued the war for seven more days. But on this stage they were drawn now more to a defensive posture. Eventually the Russians retreated from Panjshir Valley, but in order to hide their barbarism in the Valley they replaced their own troops with 5000 to 8000 of the puppet forces, of course with two divisions of their armoured forces and continued bombardment of the area. The Russian defeat in Panjshir once again proved the miracle of Almighty Allah in helping the faithful, though small in numbers and with not much of arms against the mighty ones.
       Rusians absurd dreams and the propaganda of their puppets on the occupation of Panjshir turned into a great disaster for themselves.
       Thousands of our Muslim brothers who were forcibly conscripted into the Afghan armed forces however fled with their arms and defected to the Mujahideen bases, after killing their Russian and puppet traitor officers. Mujahideen encircled and annihilated Russians and their puppet forces on all positions one after the other. Barjaman post was completely destroyed and their infidel/Parchamis committed suicide
                                  19
by drowning themselves into the river to escape their shame and the wrath of their masters. In Shabah and Bazarak, Mujahideen inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy. In Rukha a big convoy of the enemy was set on fire. A total of 27 Russian helicopters and 4 MIG bombers were shot down.
       To deceive their soldiers and to save their morale, the Russians announced that the crashed planes belonged to the Chinese and the Americans who were helping the “rebels”. Hearing such a false propaganda from the Russians and the puppet officers, Afghan soldiers were cursing their officers and were looking for an opportunity to join the ranks of the Mujahideen.
       Russians used different types of new weapons in this war, — among those were new type of Kalashinkove which could drop grenades. Also a new type of gun was snatched from the enemy. Another new Russian tactic was the use of luminiferous mine around their entrenchments, after leaving their places to trap the Mujahideen. Besides the heavy fightings, Russians carried out widespread propaganda in the Valley. Different types of propaganda leaflets were dropped in the valley to threaten the Mujahideen and to lower the morale of the people.
Mujahideen returning from their training in the fields.
                                   20
Writing in these leaflets warned that the resistance was useless and they encouraged the people to submission. The enemy spread numerous rumours not alone in Afghanistan, but the KGB agents all over the world were trying to convince the world people that Panjshir had been occupied and the Mujahideen were completely wiped out. For some somehow these rumours were effective. The Western news media which relies mainly on diplomatic sources in Kabul, broadcast these rumours through radio networks all over the world. When the journalists returned from Panjshir, they revealed their eyewitness accounts which once again proved the truth of the Mujahideen’s claim and disgraced Moscow rulers and their puppets in Afghanistan and elsewhere in the world.
       This attack was full of lessons for the Mujahideen. Russians continuously bombarded the villages, irrigation systems, cultivated lands, orchards and they looted or put on fire the people’s belongings. Savage Russians, these enemies of the humanity, were cruel even to the animals. They killed hundreds of them. Panjshir residents lived for 75 days in the mountains without proper food and clothings and other facilities but they did not submit to the enemy.
       Casualties of the Mujahideen was less, but it were high among the civilians. About 40 Mujahideen and 300 civilians were martyred. These 300 people included women, children and old people. The casualties of the enemy reached about 5000 heads. According to a captured soldiers’ confession, each mortar shell of Mujahideen would kill a number of enemies and wounded many more. Eyewitnesses declared that all hospitals at Kabul city were full of injured soldiers. They even used tents outside the hospital building, for the purpose.
       The number of detained soldiers reached thousands including some high ranking officers among them.
       When Russians faced decisive and total defeat in Panjshir, they did not want to withdraw quickly. There were obviously two reasons for this:
       1-       They knew that the people did not have enough foodstuffs, therefore, they were thinking that they will be forced to submission, but fortunately, it didn’t happen .Not only did the people not return from the mountains, but those people who were left in the villages also escaped to the mountains and joined the Mujahideen.
       2-       They had done a lot of propaganda about the defeat and annihilation of Mujahideen and restoration of the so-called law and
                                     21
order in the Valley. They declared that they were husy with voluntary developmental works in the inauguration of schools, distribution of consumption material among the people etc. If they had withdrawn from Panjshir they would have been scandalized and exposed to the world people. To save their faces they accepted the heavy cost of staying in Panjshir to show that they had control over the Valley.
       This attack had several characteristics which distinguishes it from the previous ones. In these attacks fraternity among the Mujahideen of different areas was considerable. Brothers from Hazara, Lagh-man, Andrab, Khost and Fring, Kapisa and Parwan helped the Panjshir Mujahideen. Our brothers who lived in the areas under Russian domination recited Holy Quran and prayed for the success of the Mujahideen.
       Our friends all over the world were concerned and anxious over the differences among the Mujahideen ranks, but this time Mujahideen proved that the destiny of Islam and their nation was more important than any political faction. For this higher aim, our Mujahid brothers, who knew the fictitious causes of differences against the common threat from the enemy, and with the advise of their leaders joined the rank of Panjshir Mujahideen. This can be considered as a great turning point in the Islamic Jehad of Afghanistan. This would assuage the hopes of our friends all over the world and will frustrate our enemies.
       This sacrifice and solidarity among the Mujahideen led to a complete and shameful defeat of the enemy. The stone which the Russians had lifted for the Mujahideen fell on their own feet.
       Heroic Panjshir, once again passed the great test of history successfully and will stay persistent as long as God wishes. Panjshir sacrificed 40 of its dear young Mujahid brothers and more than 300 of its residents in the path of Islam. Hundreds of the people were injured or crippled. But when they saw the shot down debris of the Russian gunship helicopters which were marked with the sickle and hammer, they exclaimed to each other that the destruction could cover the cost of their losses. Although our people lost everything of their belongings, but since they had defeated the enemy they were proud and prayed to Almighty God expressing their gratefulness.
       We believe that as long as a just and wise leadership leads the people and as long as the self-sacrificing and faithful Mujahideen are there and the people help them with devotion and high morale and resist the enemy determinedly, with the help of Almighty God no aggressive power in the world could defeat the Afghan people. This fact is more clear to our enemies in comparison to our friends in the world.
                                   22
             DIRECT COOPERATION OF THE PRESENT INDIAN GOVERNMENT WITH THE K.G.B.
      When the British Empire domination ended in the Indian subcontinent, it was thought that these nations would never submit to go under the yoke of any type of colonial power, and would save their national pride and identity. But alas, soon the Bed dragon under the mask of friendship and good neighbourly relations started charming them from the other side of Amu (Oxus) river, to dominate these nations and to swallow their national resources. The people of this region, who had lived under the domination of foreign rulers for years, have not only been afflicted with poverty and negligence, but due to suppression were also not able to organize their ranks. Seeing the deceitful face of this so-called friend, they got bewitched and thought that they could overcome all their shortcoming with the help of this friend.
      The Red colonial vanguard, who were seeking this situation and looking for a proper opportunity to infiltrate into this region, by utilizing their condition and the people’s unawareness, quickly moved and found a very suitable foothold for their Imperialistic designs.
      By cooperation and contributions, and by virtue of heedlessness and treacheries of the ruling circles, especially those of Mrs. Indira Gandhi with the Kremlin masters, was paved the way for Russians to hire a number of Indians through Indian Government or by personal contacts and by giving money to them, through K.G.B. to utilize and send these self-selling elements all over the world. The special fields of work of these Indians were those Muslim countries which did not have good relations with Russia or the Russians did not have a free hand in controlling the affairs of these countries, or the fields of activities of Russians were restricted in these countries. These hired Indians are dispatched to collect information or carry on destructive activities in these countries.
      For the first time these elements were witnessed in Afghanistan. Groups of these spies were sent to Afghanistan as engineers, doctors, teachers, merchants and other technical personnel. Both the Russians and the Indians took lot of advantages from the situation obtaining in Afghanistan. They had even controlled most of the economic affairs of
                                  23
our country. These elements who were hacked by KGB and the Indian Government to a great extent, spoiled the Kabul corrupt rulers by presenting them expensive gifts and bribes. The Kabul corrupt rulers, wno had become completely obedient to these elements trampled the national pride and the traditional values of our people. Creation of tension between Afghanistan and Pakistan and intensification of tension between these two neighbouring countries were among the foremost duties of the Indian spies. Unawareness, indifference and obstinacy of the Kabul rulers enabled these elements to implement the Russian policies and to exploit the situation according to their own wishes and soon these Indians owned the biggest stores, buildings, orchards and real estate etc. in different parts of Afghanistan. Most of these people were very influential in the government affairs. Some of these spies started smuggling of foreign currency and were able to control the exchange rate of currencies all over Afghanistan.
       To show their power to Afghan government, they would often fix the exchange rate of currencies in such a way as to create a very bad effect on the economic and commercial affairs of the country. They still control the currency market of this country.
       Other networks of this organization were engaged in other projects. There duty was to identify and introduce the project personnel to the Russians. Utilizing the activities of these elements in Afghanistan, Russians were able to adjust and arrange their activities to invade Afghanistan.
                               AWARENESS & WARNING
      Unfortunately Russians are utilizing the above mentioned useful experiences and trying to expand their intelligence network in those countries where they do not have direct activities, especially in the Islamic countries. Through these servant elements, the Russians try to carry out what they have already done in Afghanistan. Traces of such activities have been obviously observed in Iran and some other Arab and Middle Eastern countries. India strives to find entry in Islamic countries for those Indians who are hired by K.G.B. They send these elements under the name of experts, specialists and merchants to pave the way for Russia.
      This is one of the most dangerous plan of Russia which is being tried to be implemented by Mrs. Gandhi, the Indian Congress Party and some Indian self-selling elements in the Muslim countries. They are trying to collect information about weak points, shortcomings and
                                   24
other weaknesses of the Muslims all over the world in order to lead these Muslim countries toward corruption and bankruptcy, one after the other, and finally to change them into its satellite countries.
      This is a warning to all Muslims and the Islamic countries to be careful and cautious about it and not to allow their credulity, carelessness and or immediate gains to result in endangering their national interests and independence. Their carelessness today, like Afghanistan, would result in their becoming victims of their own selfishness, obstinacies and ambitiousness.
                                  25
                          INTERVIEW WITH MUJAHID BROTHER SAFIULLAH,
                            COMMANDER OF THE HERAT FRONT
      Brother Safiullah Afzali is a graduate from the faculty of science, Kabul University. At present he is working as Commander of Herat Front. He started his holy struggle against communism in 1980, after communists direct invasion of Afghanistan. This Mujahid brother started taking active part in our holy Jehad against the Communist rulers and puppet elements. The correspondent of Mirror of Jehad has had the following interview with this Mujahid brother.
Q. How is the situation of Jehad against Russian invaders in Herat province.
A. Muslim Mujahideen, with the help of God, have been able to liberate most of the region and have established guerrilla bases there. They have a very high morale and firm position to confront long-term fighting in Herat province. Majority of the civilians are assisting us in our holy struggle against foreign domination to the last drop of their blood.
Q. Since Herat province is mostly of level ground, what tactics are being used by the Mujahideen in war against the Russians in this region ?
A. We are waging guerrilla attacks on military bases of the Russians, carried out by groups of 20 to 30 people mostly during the night. In most of those attacks we establish contact with the Afghan Muslim soldiers, who mostly are assisting and guiding us.
         To prevent the movement of Russian convoys inside the liberated areas, we plant mines and explosives in the streets and on the roads. No convoy of Russians or their puppets can pass these regions without suffering heavy casualties.
                                     26
Q. As an eye witness, how do you explain the Russian crimes in Afghanistan, and how do you assess Russia’s position in future.
A. Russian crimes in Afghanistan are numerous. Massacre of innocent children, women, and old people, who are against the Russian domination and who struggle for their freedom, destruction of villages, cultivated lands and orchards are scenes of everyday crimes which are callously committed by the Russians.
           Russians always try to put in power the most incompetent, unqualified people suffering from their own superiority complexes to use them as their puppets and servants. The people of the world now very well know the crimes committed by the Russians
                         Mujahideen returning to their shelters from the training field.
                                    27
      and of their destructive communist plans after the invasion of Afghanistan by their Red army. And yet the Russians have been completely disgraced all over the world and they cannot boast of being a super power, because they have been defeated and have failed in the revolutionary Afghanistan.
Q. Would you please explain your activities as a member of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan among the people of Herat.
A. As a member of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan, I have always tried to fulfil my duties in making people aware of the possibilities of Polar bear (Russia’s) invasion and the risks of communist domination. During Taraki regime, people’s uprising started in some districts of Herat province. After the Russian invasion people all over Herat started their protest and indignation against the present puppet regime. We inform the people about the Islamic Government. Cultural committees have been founded among the government staff, people and workers. Women’s organizations have been established in the cities, and primary schools have been established in the liberated regions to give children Islamic education. In the mosques, the Holy Quran and principles of Islam are being taught to educate the people about the Islamic Government.
Q. How are you relations with other guerrilla groups and organizations in Herat province ?
A. We have very good relations and coordination with all the Mujahideen groups, because we are fighting against the common enemy. We consider all who fight against the Russian infidels as our brothers. Almighty Allah says: Mohammad is the Apostle of God; and those who are with him are strong against unbelievers, (but) compassionate amongst each other.
Q. What is your memorable incident in the resistance against the Russians ? How many Russians have been killed in the battles on different fronts of Herat.
A. Although each struggle against the Russian has a special place to be remembered, but I will explain two encounters against the Russians in Herat province.
          In the month of August 1981, a heavy clash took place between the Mujahideen and the Russians. This fighting continued from 5 in the morning till 4.00 p.m. in the afternoon. In this,
28
            A group of Mujahideen heading for a meeting in one of the houses in the village. They are going to make decisions about the future plans about the defence of their villages before any attack by the Russians.
       seven Russian tanks were destroyed, and twenty-nine Russian soldiers were killed. The Russians started artillery fire from a long range, but the shells of these guns instead fell on the puppet government security posts, destroying most of their own ammunition. Fortunately there were no casualty on the Mujahideen side.
           The other incident was the fighting on May 17, 1982 in the western parts of Herat (Braman) which continued for about eight hours. Mujahideen captured seven tanks and big quantity of ammunitions from the Russians. Seventy four Red army soldiers and officers were killed. God was merciful and there were no casualties on the Mujahideen side. Russians started bombard ment of the civilians and the villages in which twenty seven people were martyred. On the basis of carefully collected information, about 2000 Russian and 10,000 Karmal troops are estimated to have been killed in Herat since the Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
                                  29
 Q. What types of weapons do you have ?
 A. We started the resistance with old guns and weapons which were with us in the villages. However when the resistance movement started and we began attacks on the enemy bases, with the help of our Muslim Afghan soldiers having sympathy with us, we have been able to snatch new weapons from the Russians. Now in some of the battle fronts we have rocket launchers, Kalashinkoves and mortar guns to use against the enemy.
 Q. What is your opinion about the Islamic Alliance of the resistance groups?
 A. It is known to the people of Afghanistan that the majority of the Mujahideen in the country are members of Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan. They have always struggled against infidel governments and the Russians. The leader of the Jamiat-e-Islami Afghanistan and their Mujahideen brothers have always worked and are ready to work and take part as soldiers in war against the foreign enemy and to defend the Islamic unity among the Mujahideen. For Mujahideen, it is very important to be united against the Russian Red army invaders, to gain eventual victory.
 Q. What is your message to the Mujahid people of Afghanistan ?
 A. My message to my oppressed nation is to continue their struggle against the enemy of mankind (the Russians). They should continue the struggle against the Russian infidels and remember the sacrifices of their martyred brothers until they achieve complete and final victory. We should try very hard, day and night, to do everything to liberate Afghanistan and establish an Islamic Government in our country.
                                    30
      PROBLEMS IN THE ISSUE OF AFGHANISTAN
      After the direct military invasion of Russians in Afghanistan on December 27,1979, there were different types of thoughts on the causes and consequences of Russian efforts in Afghanistan. Some people thought that this invasion would be a temporary phase. They were thinking that after the coup d’etat against Hafizullah Amin and the installation of Babrak Karmal, the Red army would immediately leave Afghanistan. Since Russian aggression to some people seemed as an unbelievable event; it was almost impossible for them to foresee future course of events. Sixty-year-long boasting of friendship, non-alliance, peace, independence and good neighbourly relations by the Russians however finally resulted in barbarism, unlimited atrocities and severe hostilities in Afghanistan. But most of the people in Afghanistan had previously apprehended the facts about the misfortunes, disasters and calamities which were likely to be perpetrated on Afghanistan by the Russians and they feared Russia will not leave Afghanistan so easily.
      The world people who were familiar with the Russian tactics, their hypocrisies and treacheries, had thought the Red army would suppress the peace-loving and independent nation of Afghanistan. They thought one attack by the Red army and the innocent Afghans would not be able to stand before the storm of Russian napalm bombs, artillery fire, chemical bombs and rocket-firing tanks, and the Russians will cool down people’s uprising. But soon the heroic uprising of our people, which began with empty hands, changed these illusions, and the savage Red invaders were given their disappointments. The heroic resistance of the Afghans drew the attention of the world to the fact of barbaric Russians having got stuck in the swamp of their evil deeds from which they could neither move forward nor go back. Since all the news media are under Russians control and the sources which give quick information to the world people are either Tass or Radio Kabul, the facts are given inversely and people are kept in obscurity. The actual essence, characteristics and motives of the Afghan Holy Jehad were kept in darkness from the world people and this caused them not to react properly against such a historical catastrophe of the world in its true perspective. Several examples of such causes will be explained below:
 1-   K.G.B. ACTIVITIES
      During Russian invasion of Afghanistan, K.G.B. spying service
                              31
A CLASS ROOM OF AFGHAN CHILDREN IN A REFUGEE CAMP.
              Education is necessary for all children. All parents like to have educated children. Some of the refugee children do find the chance, hut mostly without necessary books, stationery, proper classrooms and good
                                                teachers.
 with their full power tried to cover up the widespread cruelty, barbarism and massacre of Warsaw Treaty armies in Afghanistan. They tried to show that the situation in Afghanistan was calm and normal, and there were only a few rebels who were causing disturbance to the installed puppet regime. Their Kremlin masters, through the K.G.B. network, tried to divert the public opinion from the uprising of Muslim nation of Afghanistan and notoriety and defeat of the ferocious Red aimy against Islam and the power of faith. In this way they try to nullify the reaction of the world people against their crimes and cruelties. Therefore, by spreading misleading news and incorrect information, false propaganda and rumours among the people all over the world; they are trying to conceal their evil deeds in Afghanistan. Most of the credulous and unwary people still believe that what Radio Kabul and Tass Agency say about the events in Afghanistan, these must be true. Thousands of K.G.B. elements with the help of most of the communist countries and pro-communist so-called Muslims, are carrying on these
                                   32
types of evil activities all over the world. They have easily diverted the public attention of the unaware people as well as some of the world’s political leaders’ verdict on Afghanistan issue.
2-    INTERNAL CONTRADICTIONS
      Afghan nation has made big sacrifices for their common sacred cause against the savage Red army. Unfortunately, because of human nature, lack of political experience and human motives and sentiments, it occasionally happens that groups of Mujahideen instead of helping each other launch hostilities against each other. Motivated thinking, various kind of self instincts and penetration of irresponsible and hired elements inside our Mujahid groups and organizations are the main reasons which influence our brotherhood and friendship into hostilities. It finally results into disintegration of the parties. Every party claims that they are the champions of Jehad and the only saviour of their country. They propagate these things in and outside the country to show that the mystery of all the victories lies in their hands and no one else shares anything in achieving this endowment. All this selfishness, self praise and insult of others, to some extent, causes adverse effects on the opinion of the world people and as a result the realities are obliterated by these contradictions. Today we are practically feeling the impact of these factors and thus feel disappointment at the hesitation, inattention and indifference of the people of the world on the Afghanistan issue.
3-    PRESENCE OF THE SO-CALLED TALENTED ELEMENTS
      In the Jehad of Afghanistan, the best past experience and tactics of the imperialists in the subdueing of uprising of the nations is to disperse the people by all possible means and apply the policy of divide and rule. By the employment of their own servants, puppets and spies among the people, they create hostilities among them. In this way they can implement their own plans and policies with complete confidence. In such a situation, the imperialists try to give publicity to those elements who have reactionary characteristics, so that they could get their support and benefits when they get into power. Although the effect of these elements in essence and solution of the problem is of no importance, but they can play a good role in scattering the ranks of Mujahideen. This will result in creation of more problems for Mujahideen which is to the benefit of the enemy.
      By using such experiences that the Russian imperialists have gained so far, they have tried to enter some of the elements and faces to the Jehad of Afghanistan who neither in the past nor now have had
                                33
any relation to the people of Afghanistan. These elements claim to those people who have not been to Afghanistan at this time or they are unaware about the conditions in Afghanistan, that all achievements of Jehad belong to them and without their participation in Jehad, there will be no action in the battlefield as well as in the political affairs of Afghanistan. Such selfish and opportunist elements who are trying for their own benefits and power, do not have any practical relation in the Jehad of Afghanistan. They purposely try to boast that all sacrifices, heroism and devotion of Afghan Mujahideen are not important and valuable. They try to show the people of the world that there is no wise and learned leader in the ranks of Afghan Mujahideen and there is no one in Afghanistan suitable enough to have the ability and status for leadership. These false claims are offered by such elements who are trying to stop Jehad in Afghanistan. Their actions are for the benefit of Russians and their puppets. Their irrelevant and unwarranted enmity and hostility against other people and countries, and even against the friends of Afghans and peace-loving people of the world is an indicator for proving that they have good relations with their Russian masters. They are exaggerating about their role in Jehad but in reality they have no role to play to help our Jehad inside Afghanistan. These type of people don’t represent Mujahideen. Therefore, they arc
             A completely destroyed village during an air attack by the Russians — the gift of communism to the poor people of Afghanistan.
34
 performing their duty by inverse explanations of the facts about the Mujahideen and the essence of Jehad to the people of the world. This is more dangerous for the Mujahideen than the practical activities of Russians and their agents. These so-called politicians are showing to the people that they are only experienced politicians who can control the country and Jehad Movements, but in action, they are incapable of taking even one step for the benefit of the people of Afghanistan. Their ultimate goal is recapturing power by all or any possible means. Their activities are for their personal benefits. They are not working for the innocent and oppressed people and the Jehad in Afghanistan. They are trying to introduce and show their own power by taking evil advantage of Afghanistan Jehad. The evil deeds of such elements create Hesitation among the world people and the interested nations on the ope hand and interrupting the efforts of Mujahideen on the other.
 4r- REACTIONS OF THE ISLAMIC COUNTRIES
      It is surprising to mention that the reactions of some of the Islamic countries on the Afghanistan Issue with relation to Russians’ barbarism were not on the basis of the Holy Quran and tenets of Islam. Some of the leaders of Muslim countries have done nothing for the Afghanistan Jehad except lip service and mere talk. Some of the hired, leaders under the mask of Islam in the Islamic and international conferences, have appreciated their master’s invasion and crimes in Afghanistan, and they have tried to restrain themselves to condemn Russians’ aggression. With such a negative and neutral stance and conservative policy Of Muslim nations, Russians became more active in tile continuation 61 their treacheries, destructions and savageness with complete confidence. These actions of the Islamic countries have also influenced the other countries of the world to decrease the intensity of their reactions, condemnation of the Russian aggression and finding out the truth about the present and past facts about Jehad (the holy war) of Afghan people.
 5-   PROPAGANDA OF THE COMMUNIST NETWORKS
      The uprising and struggle of the Afghan people against their Russian enemy revealed practically one thing to the Russians and the other communist followers that such a useless and non-practical system is not practical in an Islamic society such as Afghanistan. The Islamic movement will uproot such systems. For this reason the Russian communists tried to get the ideological and financial support of the European and regional communists. They have started their propaganda against Mujahideen and their struggle for Afghanistan. They are going
                                          35;
             Another village destroyed by the atrocious Russians like hundreds of others thus forcing their dwellers to migrate to Pakistan and Iran.
to paint the resistance of Afghan people differently than what it is. In this way they think that they would be able to survive in Afghanistan. Their sabotage actions, provocations and propaganda would not be useful for them the way they think about it. It will only have some influence on the ideas of some people who are unaware about the facts of Jehad in Afghanistan. This is one of those things that has affected the decision of some of the nations not fully aware of facts about Afghanistan.
6-    SUSPICIONS
      Some people think that the revolution and Jehad of Afghanistan is similar to revolutions in other countries. Based on these assumptions and examples, they think that the process of revolution of the other countries will be repeated in Afghanistan. This might be one of the reasons that the world people do not realize the necessity of recognition of Jehad in Afghanistan and the peoples struggle there. They rarely would have paid attention to the point that Afghanistan issue is completely a different fact from that of the other revolutions. Afghan people are putting up resistance against a super power. They
                                                36
 are fighting for the liberty of their land, people and the Application of Islamic principles and laws in the country.
 7-   RESULT
      Based on the aforementioned views and some other points explanation of which are not possible in the scope of this article, some people of the world have not properly recognised the realities about the special facts and the essence of our revolution and efforts of the Mujahideen who really have a constructive role in the revolution. Due to lack of awareness about Jehad in Afghanistan even the decision and thinking of some of the peace-loving people and supporters of liberty might change. It might even have negative effect on their minds.
 8-   THE TRUE NATURE OF AFGHANISTAN JEHAD
     The Jehad (Holy War) and uprising of Afghan people from its tragic and factual point of View or from the barbarism and savage actions of the Russians, which the people are resisting only by their faith against a super power without any proper armament is an unparalleled fact in the world. Russian barbarism against Afghan people’s heroism, faith and determination has no previous record in the history. Although in history many countries have struggled and resisted the invaders. In these countries, from military point of view, to some extent a comparison had existed, while in Afghanistan there is a great difference between the invader Russians and the resisting power of Afghans from the military point of view. The struggle of Afghan nation against the savage and devilish Russians is a struggle of mankind against the Satan and the struggle of Faith against Infidelity which originates from the Islamic Ideology. This is the only reason that an under-developed and poor country like Afghanistan with empty hands, and insurmountable difficulties without the cooperation of other nations is heroically confronting and resisting the great devilish super power of the time and will never surrender and be defeated by the enemy. The vanguards of this Jehad and great guards of Islam are those who fight and resist in the bloody and fiery battle-field against the savage attacks and invasion of Russian plunderers. They sacrifice their own lives, families children and property in the cause of Jehad in Afghanistan. Afghanistan will be liberated and reconstructed again only at the hands of such heroes. The future of the country is in their hands. This is the only reality and no one can stand against in its way. Those politicians who are thinking about their own business and those who commit conspiracies, terrors, murders and devilish actions under the holy name of Islam will be condemned
                                 38
by the people of Afghanistan and they would have no place in the Revolution of Afghanistan. The true Mujahideen will not give chance to the selfish and parasitical elements in their evil dreams and intentions.
               Two boys, who are looking after their families because their fathers were killed by Russians. They are carrying flour for their families. What is he thinking about ? Perhaps about days when his father was alive and he could enjoy himself with other things than doing such-like chores for the family.
                                 39
       The.ultimate goal of Afghan people like their Jehad will be completely based on the Islamic principles and order. political, social and economic life of Afghan nation mil "be built on the basis of high Islamic values whose final goal and aim is humanism, peace-philanthropism, peaceful co-existence, benevolence, tolerance and sympathy with all the mankind.
       The tragedy of Afghanistan and its consequences would no doubt become the problem of the world. Afghans are resisting and fighting against the enemy of the mankind. Afghan nation fights for their liberty, faith and believes. The peace-loving countries and people of the world must help this nation till the complete withdrawal of the tyrannical Russians from Afghanistan. The champions who defend their homeland are the actual politicians of this country. They resist in the battle? fronts for the dignity and respect of the human nations and their own people. There bravery, knowledge and awareness do not let them accept and yield to the colonization and exploitation of Russians or any other foreign countries. They prefer to be killed but cann’t accept the domination of Russians. The world people should take this fact in mind that by supporting and reliance on irresponsible, hated, deposed and abstracted elements or by parley or secret agreements with such elements, they will make the problem of Afghanistan more complicated.
       The decision about Afghanistan and the destination of the people should be made directly by themselves, specially by those people who are directly involved in the resistance against the Russian invaders and aggressors. The people of Afghanistan cann’t accept any decision about themselves without their awareness and direct involvement of their representatives in these decisions. Only those who are involved in the resistance against the enemy of their country are the actual representatives of their own people and none else.
                                  40
           REPORTS FROM BATTLE FRONTS OF FIGHTING BETWEEN THE TRUTH AND THE FALSEHOOD
 Reports From Logar Province:
      According to a report from Logar province, Mr. Samiullah, one of the very active Commander of the Mujahideen was martyred in Logar. The detailed account of this sad happening will be given in later issues.
      Dubandi, sub-district of Logar, was bombarded from 6.00 am. to 7.30 am. on July 31. In this bombardment six jets and five helicopters took part. Many civilians were killed and houses were destroyed. Also, more than 15 Mujahideen of Dubandi, Juzjan, Wardak and Takhar provinces were martyred in this area. In the beginning of July, during a sudden bombardment two houses were destroyed in Khoshi sub-province and six civilians and tchildren were martyred under the debris of these houses.
 REPORTS FROM WARDAK PROVINCE:
      According to a report from Wardak province, Mujahideen decided to block Kabul-Qandahar highway for six days (May 20-May 25). The highway was blocked at two places, Saroi Shendil and Tukhamak-e-Maidan. Within this period more than “40” tanks and armoured vehicles were destroyed, ten Russian and their agent troops were killed. Mujahideen didn’t suffer any casualties.
 REPORTS FROM JUZJAN PROVINCE:
      The following reports have been received from Auqcha subdistrict of Juzjan province.
      On May 16, Mujahideen launched an attack on the Russians convoy on the highway of Auqcha-Sheberghan. In this attack 3 tanks of the enemy were destroyed and one Russian soldier surrendered. Mujahideen captured different types of bullets, weapons and other ammunitions.
      On May 19, Mujahideen of Menjang sub-district, attacked a tanks convoy of the Russians. One tank alongwith its seven crew were blown up. Four Mujahideen were martyred in this clash.
                             41
       On June 6, Mujahideen launched an attack on the military base of Russian agents in Auqcha City. In this attack, 6 tanks with their crews of the enemy were annihilated. Twelve Russians and “70” communist agents were killed, with five Mujahideen martyred in these attacks.
REPORTS FROM KABUL PROVINCE:
NORTHERN KABUL :
     On June 11, in an attack on Russian convoys, along the Kabul-
                        Armoured vehicles and tanks knocked down earlier by the Mujahideen and now being burnt.
42
 Qarabagh highway, 10 Russians were killed and five others were wounded. In this clash one Mujahid, M. Yasin, was martyred.
      In a clash between Mujahideen and Karmal troops, on June 25, in the Qarabagh area, 15 Russians were killed. Four Mujahideen got martyred.
      A report from Mirbachakot sub-province states that Mujahideen groups under command of M. Aqa launched a guerrilla attack on the Russian convoys. One tank and one armoured vehicle were destroyed. No casualty from Mujahideen was reported.
 SOUTHERN KABUL:
      A report from Chardihi sub-province of Kabul states that during three days (June 15-17) guerrilla attacks of Mujahideen were conducted on Russians posts in company Dasht-e-Barchi and Kohi Qurugh areas. Two Russians, 56 communist agents and two Afghan nationals who were spying for the Russians, were killed by the Mujahideen.
              Proud Afghan boys who have decided to carry on the heroic Jihad against the inhuman invaders to the next generation.
                                                 43
      According to another report dated 26-31 of May from Char Asyab frontline, one house was bombarded in Musahee by helicopters and jets on May 15, 1982. In this bombardment, one person was injured but the house was totally destroyed. It is stated that in this clash between the Mujahideen and the Russians and Karmal troops, 100 Karmal troops were killed and three Mujahideen were martyred. Two tanks were destroyed in Char Asyab.
      On June 23, Russians launched an attack on Musahee village. Mujahideen resisted against the invaders’ troops. More than 90 infidels were killed. Seven Mujahideen were martyred in this clash. More than 10,000 enemy soldiers participated in this operatipn, the report adds.
      According to another report, on July 4, 1982, a group of Mujahideen made a successful attack on “Bagh-e-Kotee”, located in Binihisar (6 km. south of Kabul). As a result, 200 militia elements got killed, a first lieutenant of the armoured battalion No. “15" was arrested. Nine armoured vehicles were completely destroyed and a depot of ammunition, near Qalacha, was set on fire. The casualties of Muja hideen in this operation were: two injured and two martyred.
      Furthermore, one Russian element has been arrested and two agent elements from the army forces were killed in the attack carried out by the heroic Mujahideen of the Char Asyab sub-province front on 30/31 July, 1982.
      The Charasyab sub-province Front, on 3/5 August 1982, waged a successful attack on an asphalt factory. Two armoured vehicles, one Russian jeep were destroyed and the factory itself were set on fire.
      On July 6, 1982, Karmal troops launched an attack on the Mujahideen of Charasyab sub-province, which was easily pushed back by the devoted Mujahideen of this Front. Simultaneously, the Russians air force attack on Musahee and Rahmatabad villages caused the death of three children and one woman.
 REPORTS FROM BALKH PROVINCE:
      According to latest news received from the central battle fronts of Balkh Province, Mujahideen have performed the following activities under the general leadership of Mr. Zabihullah:
                       — One truck, carrying wheat for Karmal troops from Balkh to
                             Khulm was captured by Mujahideen (Khalifa Ismail and
      N.K. Mohammad) on July 21, 1982.
                                              44
                        A group of Mujahideen standing beside the remnant of a Russian tank
                                                                        destroyed by them.
 —    A truck carrying reinforcement bars for construction of Russian military bases was captured on the Mazar-i-Sharif-Hairatan highway on July 22, 1982.
 —    Of the six helicopters and two jets which were bombarding Mujahideen positions at about 8 a.m. on July 13, one helicopter was shot down by Abdul Wahab. The bombardment continued for one hour. There has been no casualty on the Mujahideen’s side.
       On July 14, one Russian puppet agent was captured.
 —    One Russian truck carrying goods from Hairatan Port for their agents was captured by Mujahideen on July 15. After this operation bombardment was started by enemy helicopters in which one shopkeeper was killed. The truck safely arrived at the centre of the battle front.
                                  46
—     On July 17, one AFSOTR truck carrying raisins to Hairatan Port for Russians was captured by Mujahid brothers Abdul Ghani, Qasim and Salim at about 6.00 p.m. Another truck of Russian agents was captured on the same day in the Mazar-i-Sharif City.
—     On July 18, one Russian jeep belonging to the Russian agents was captured by Mujahid brothers Ihsan, Qudus and Ghulam Muhammad.
—     Two trucks carrying 70 bombs weighing 250 kg each moving to the airport were captured by Mujahid brothers Ghausuddin and Abdul Ghani and their companions at about 11.30 a.m. on July 19, 1982.
—     In the attack by Mujahideen on the Russian troops, one Russian jeep carrying Russian troops were destroyed and two Russians were killed.
Remains of an enemy tank and a heavy gun knocked down by the Mujahideen and brought down to their village as a memento of war
                                 victory over the Russians.
                                  47
      One Russian jeep carrying three Russians was destroyed and its passengers killed. Also 15 Parchami Communists were killed in the attack between Mujahideen and Karmal troops in July, 1982.
      Two helicopters bombarded Mormal gorge on July 3. In this bombardment, one Mujahid brother was martyred and five others were injured.
      One Russian tank with its crew were destroyed on July 2 in the attack which took place between Mujahideen and Russian convoys at Langar Khan School at Shahi Canal sub-district of Balkh.
      Two groups of Mujahideen were surrounded by Russian troops On July 5 in the Balkh area. Under the leadership of Mr. Alam Khan, Mujahideen launched the attack on the enemy troops. As a result of this attack Mujahid brothers were saved. In the encounter two Russian tanks were destroyed and about 100 enemy troops were either killed or seriously wounded. One Mujahid brother Adam Khan was martyred in this fighting.
                                    48
                                                   The Afghan Freedom Fighters resist the Soviet Serpent.
 ■ v *      <  <
MSP