Vol 5, No 5                                                 March  1,1989
Consultative Shoora approves Mujahideen government
                    Mujaddidi elected Head of State, Sayyaf Prime Minister of interim government
     The Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan is seen as a major victory for the people of Afghanistan in their struggle for self-determination. Problems still exist, but the major step towards liberation of the country has been taken.
     The last Soviet soldier, Lt General Boris Gromov, commander of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan, crossed the border into the Soviet Union at noon on February 15.
     The stage for the withdrawal was set to show that the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan was different from the American withdrawal from Vietnam.
  . A group of foreign journalists were taken to the border to report the event.
     A Soviet government statement issued on February 15 said that all Soviet soldiers were out of Afghanistan.
     The Soviets have left behind some advisers, the number of whom is not known but the Soviets say they are few.
     The United Nations Good Offices in Afghanistan and Pakistan which monitors the implementation of the Geneva Accords, reported to UN Secretary-General Perez de Cuellar that the withdrawal of Soviet* troops was completed.
     The president of Pakistan in a message called February 15 a historic day and a miracle of 20th century. He also called it a victory for all those who cherished freedom and the victory of faith over material might.
     Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in her statement said that it was time to pause and pay tribute to those who struggled so heroically against seemingly possible odds.
     The Pakistan National Assembly and Senate passed unanimously resolutions congratulating the Afghan people for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
                                                                                                                      Turn to page (3 )
 ■ ■ ■ .
     After 12 days of discussions the Consultative Council of the Mujahideen elected Prof. Mojaddidi as the president and Prof. Sayaf as the Prime Minister of the interim government which is supposed to replace Najibullah's government in Kabiil.The ministerial posts were divided among other parties in the Alliance.
      It is generally believed that the Kabul regime will not last long after the Soviet withdrawal. The need for a relatively broad-based government was felt
     The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, based in Peshawar, decided to convene a Consultative Council composed of the representatives introduced by the constituent parties of the Alliance and the Mujahideen parties based in Iran.
     The Supreme Council of the Alliance decided that each of the seven parties in the Alliance should send 60 representatives. Half of the representatives should be field commanders and the rest political workers, refugees, religious scholars and intellectuals. For Iran-based parties 60 seats were allocated.
     Bight Mujahideen parties based in Iran have an umbrella organization call die Coalition of Afghan Mujahideen
     Iran-based parties demanded 120 seats. Several attempts were made to bridge the gap between the two sides but failed.
      Mujaddidi, the spokesman of the Alliance, went to Teheran and signed an agreement with the Iran-based parties under which they were to be given 100 seats in the Consultative Council.
      This agreement was not ratified by the Supreme Council and consequently the Iran-based parties stayed out of the Council.
      The Deputy Prime Minister of Iran, Ali Raza Moayyeri, came to Islamabad to help the two sides to com-
 promise. He did not succeed either.
     After the boycott of the Council by the Iran-based parties, the Alliance agreed to give some seats to small independent groups of Maulawi Mansoor, Qazi Amin, Maulawi Moazzen, Maulawi Jamilurrahman (Wahabi) and Maulawi Afzal (Nooristani) Shurai-Ittefaq, a Shia party.
     The first meeting of the council in the absence of Iran-based parties was held on February 10.
     Mujaddidi first boycotted the meetings of the Council in protest at the rejection of the agreement he had signed with the Iran-based parties. Later he decided to return to the meeting but resigned from the spokesmanship of the Alliance. Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi replaced him.
     The efforts to get a vote of confidence for Ahmad Shah's government failed. The reason was his failure to provide a list of ministers. The opposition came from the floor and a large number of delegates walked out in protest.
     To end the crises 70 delegates headed by commander Haqqani presented themselves for mediation. Later a 14 member committee was formed to finalize the proposals and present them to the council. Each party introduced two people for the committee and deci- * sions of the committee were considered final.
     The committee reached the decision to hold election in the council. The party leaders were put forward as the candidates for the posts of presidency, prime .ministership and different ministries. Each delegate had the right to vote for two of the seven leaders.
     The leader who won the highest number of votes would be the president The leader in second place was entitled to introduce the Prime Minister.
               Turn to page ($ )
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 2
r
News
     From the battlefields *_______________________ . -■>
                                                     Takhar Province
     Jami'at scored a major victory when more than 10,000 regime militiamen and spldiers defected to the Mujahideen in Takhar and Badakhshan bringing with them big quantities of arms and ammunition.
     On February 16, regiment number 6, headed by Abdul Samad, regiment 543 headed by Mirza Abdur Rahim and regiment 544 headed by Abdur Rashid Tatar defected to the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of the North.
     The following weapons and equipment was delivered to the Mujahideen:
  1- Tanks and armored cars 15
  2-  Trucks                40
  3-  Light weapons         10,000
  4-  Tractors and Bulldozers 50
  5-  Light grenade launchers 60
  6-  Heavy grenade launchers 40
  7-  Anti-aircraft guns (23 mm.)10
  8-  Mortar( 82 mm.)       20
  9-  Mortar(120 mm.j       8
  10- 76mm Howitzer         7
  11- PK. Machine gun       100
  12- Goryunov machine guns 270
  13- RDPs (heavy Kalashnikov) 500
  14- DSchk guns(l2.7 mm) 50
  15-  ZPUs guns (14.5 mm) 30
     By this victory Rustaq distric, Takhar, and Shahr-i-Bozorg sub- dis-trict3adakhshan were liberated.
                                                        Salang valley
     On February 15, four officers of the regime were killed and 12 soldiers were captured when the Mujahideen attacked their post in Liwan of Salang valley. The Mujahideen seized 14 guns.
                                                                                               On February 16, the Mujahideen destroyed five tanks, six armored cars, seven trucks, one 122 mm gun and ; eight oil tankers when they attacked an enemy convoy inside die Salang valley. Forty five soldiers and 15 officers were
 captured. The Mujahideen seized 26 Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launchers, one mortar, and two pistols. Two Mujahideen were killed and three were injured.
    On the same day the Mujahideen attacked Aahangaran post with heavy weapons. Four tanks and six trucks were destroyed. The enemy suffered casualties but no figures were available.
    In three days of fighting which started on February 14, the Mujahideen destroyed four trucks loaded with ammunition, killed or wounded 50 soldiers and destroyed two posts. Three Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
    The Mujahideen siezed four Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine gun and one grenade launcher.
    On 17 February an enemy garrison in Hejan, south of the Salang Tunnel, was captured after three days of fighting.
    Twenty enemy soldiers were killed, three were captured and the rest fled.
    The Mujahideen captured 61 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, seven rocket launchers, three grenade launchers and two pistols. The Mujahideen also captured six armored cars and five tanks which were set on fire because the Mujahideen could not make use. of them. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
     Parwan province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked enemy positions along the highway in Salang valley, Jabul Seraj, Matack and Charikar on February 11. Meanwhile the Mujahideen attacked with heavy weapons the enemy bases in Qala-i-Surkh in Jabul Seraj at the mouth of the Salang valley, Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province, and Bagram air base.
     In Salang 145 enemy soldiers and ten officers were captured and 10 were killed. The Mujahideen captured nine1
82mm mortars, 181 Kalashnikov rifles. One DSchK, one PK machine gun, one Dragunov sniper gun, one communication set and some ammunition. The Mujahideen lost one person and eight others were wounded. The Mujahideen control a section of the highway.
    In Jabul Seraj, seven enemy posts were evacuated in Mian Guzar area. Near the Matak Bridge one tank was set on fire and three soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen lost two men and two Mujahideen were wounded.
    In these operations, the Mujahideen belonging to Dagarwal Jailani from Jabul Seraj, Padar Khan and Mawlana from Gulbahar, Haji Enayat from Charikar, Engineer Wasil from Ashaba and Shaheen from Kapisa had participated.
    On February 7 the Mujahideen from Bagram fired ground-to-ground rockets into Bagram air base. Several aircraft were damaged.
    Soviet and regime forces launched a massive offensive against the Mujahideen along the Salang highway on January 23. As a resultof heavy bombing from air and rocket firing 600 people, most of them civilians, were killed and 1200 were injured.
    In Panjshir a Scud missile killed 70 people in the village of Khench. Since the beginning of the offensive, Soviets and regime forces have fired 23 Scud missiles into the Panjshir Valley.
    The Mujahideen from Jamial captured 21 soldiers and two officers of the regime when they attacked the enemy posts close to the city of Charikar on February 8.
    The Mujahideen seized 19 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one DSchK machine gun, two Grenov ma-chineguns and some ammunition.
    The posts were located about one kilometer from the center of the city.
    In the attack which was launched by Commander Haji Enayat one tank and two trucks belonging to the enemy were destroyed.
    Nineteen Mujahideen sustainedmi-nor injuries.
    The report which was written on February 15, said that bombing of the Mujahideen bases like Panjshir, Khailab and Khost-o-Fering was continuing.
    On February 10, six civilians were killed by bombing in Khost district pf Baghlan province.
    It should be added that bombing of the bases of the Supervisory Council oi ‘ the North started on January 18.
                                                                                                                      Turn to page ( 3 )
AFGHANews Vol5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 3
           February 15 historic day for Afghans
                    From page (1)
      News
                                                  From page (2)
                                              Baghlan province
    In a series of attacks which continued from 6 to 13 February, the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Hasantal, close to Baghlan city, destroyed two enemy posts, captured 12 enemy^ soldiers and killed or wounded an unknown number of the enemy soldiers.
    The Mujahideen seized 34 Kalashnikov rifles, three PK machine guns and three rocket launchers. One Mujahid was killed.         —
                                              Herat province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at liber-ated Kushk district, close to the Soviet border, and cut Herat-Toorghondi road connecting Herat to the Soviet Union on February 18.
    In fighting between the Mujahideen and government forces, 15 soldiers were killed, 20 soldiers were wounded and600 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen.
    The Mujahideen destroyed eight tanks and two trucks and set on fire two ammunition dumps of the enemy.
    In a separate operation, a DRA unit of about 300 men posted to protect Salma Dam, 60 kilometers east of the city of Herat, surrendered to the Mujahideen with their weapons a few days after the Soviet troops' withdrawal. No detail of the fighting is available.
    The above two operations were carried out by the Mujahideen under die command of Ismail Khan.
                                            Tank eats bus' share
    People reaching Peshawar say that the people of Kabul not only are facing food shortages but also have to walk in severe winter because of fuel shortages which has stopped public transport.
    Few buses are running in the streets and taxis charge too much money.
    According to an eyewitness, the search for conscripts in the city has intensified and night raids of the houses are carried out for this purpose.
    He confirmed earlier reports by the Mujahideen that the regime has imprisoned a large number of Punjshiri elders, espicially the relatives of the Mujahideen, to discourage the Mujahideen from attacking enemy targets.
     Mian Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the opposition and Chief Minister of Punjab, congratulated Afghans on their victory which he called the biggest military success of Muslims in their history.
     The withdrawal of Soviet troops also was welcomed by the United States, the E.E.C, Organization of Islamic conference and other countries.
     Ironically the Resistance parties did not celebrate the victory for which they had struggled more than nine years. The reason was the parties' preoccupation with the proceedings of the Consultative Council which was facing problems.
     The Soviets invaded Afghanistan on December 27,1979. The purpose of the invasion was to save the communist regime in Kabul, which was facing. a civil war.
     Soviet involvement in Afghanistan continued for 9 years, one month and 18 days. They deployed 150,000 troops, thousands of tanks and hundreds of jets and helicopters.
     They lost more than 15,000 men in action. 37,000 were injured and 311 Soviets reported to be missing.
     The Afghans paid a dear price. About one million Afghans were killed, 7 million were displaced and 75% of all the villages and towns woe destroyed.
     The Mujahideen were originally ill-equipped and disorganized. As time passed they gained better equipment and organized themselves better.
     The role of Pakistan mid Iran in giving shelter to the refugees and the role of Pakistan in supporting Afghans by all possible means played pivotal part in achieving victory.
     Parallel to continuation of the war, proximity talks between Pakistan and the communist regime continued. The talks started in 1982 and on April 14,1988 the Geneva Accord was signed.
     The Mujahideen did not take part the accord. They continued to fight. Withdrawal of Soviet troops has taken the Mujahideen close to their goal, but there are still problems to overcome.
     The Kabul regime still controls most cities. To achieve a complete victory, the Mujahideen need to defeat the regime and install a political system in its place. Reconstruction of Afghanistan will be a major task in front of the new government
     The Soviet withdrawal was not taken easily by Najibullah, head of the communist regime. Immediately after the withdrawal a state emergency was announced. Non-party ministers were replaced by party members.
     The Regime's foreign minister said the government would intensify security measures including search of houses.
     The Regime has already started capturing Mujahideen relatives to use them as hostages to discourage the Mujahideen from launching attack. Reports talk of 2,000 Panjshiris being captured by the regime for this purpose.
     The Regime wanted to demonstrate its power by holding a rally of 30,000 party members who were issued automatic rifles to defend the city. Only 6,000 party members attended die rally and all of them had to undergo a body search by security forces.
     The Regime has formed a 19-member war council which is headed by Najib. Hasan Sharq, the Prime Minister, resigned and was replaced by Sultan Ali Keshtmand, a party member who served as the prime minister of the regime from the beginning of the invasion until last year.
     Najib has sent messages to different world leaders informing them the Soviet withdrawal.ln these messages he has accused Pakistan and the United States of violating the Geneva Accord.
     Najib sent a message to the Iranian leader asking him to help in persuading the Mujahideen to form a broad-based government with the communists, and observe a ceasefire.
     Earlier 20 Iranian prisoners were released from Kabul prisons, an attempt to improve relations with Iran. The Iranian charge d1 affaires in Kabul saic that releasing prisoners would not improve relations between the two countries because Iran did not recognize the Kabul regime.
     Najib is preparing himself for the defence of Kabul. Kabul has turned into a fortified city with' curfew imposed from dawn to dusk.
     To boost the morale of its troops the regime claims to have discovered a Mujahideen plan of attack and to have captured large quantities of their arms and ammunition.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1,1989, page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Abdul Basir Khalid
     Abdul Basir Khalid, a well-known Jami'at commander in Badakhshan, was bom 38 years ago in a small village in Yaftal of Badakhshan.His father, a respected religious man, taught him Holy Quran, persian classics and poetry. His family was poor but with a rich religious background.
     Basir was ten years old when he was sent to Faizabad city, the capital of Badakhshan, to join Kokcha primary school. After primary school he entered high school in Faizabad which was completed in 1970. "Basir was actively working against the Setamies (a communist regional party) while he was in 11 and 12 grades. "Every body knew that he was anti-communist” said commander Abdul Haq, his deputy.
     "Basir participated in the demonstrations launched againsr the local communists." said Abdul Haq.
     "He was a sociable boy, bright in his studies and obstinate in his decisions. He was helping me and his family in the household affairs.” said his father who lives now in Peshawar. "He loved swimming and hunting very much." continued his father.
     Basir became a teacher in 1971 and worked in different schools in Badakhshan, for about nine years. He was a respected teacher leaching different subjects. He was a Muslim activist who was linked with like-minded teachers who had organized themselves to counter communist and Setami influence.
     Communists under the banner of democracy in the late years of the King and during the rule of his cousin. President Daud, had spread their influence among the students. Setamis were the most active communist group in Badakhshan.
     Some students and teachers along with a number of Ulamas (religious scholar) organized themselves to neutralize anti-Islamic activities. It was difficult because Muslim activists were threatened and persecuted by die government while communists had freedom to work. "Basir being a teacher had a bettor chance to reach students and warn them against the consequences of the communists' activities.
     Basir was warned many times by the school principal and government agents not to get involved in politics." remembered his deputy. "But his poor house was a gathering place for the Muslim activists such as Faizur Rahman Shaheed, Faez, Ustad Naiem Shahna, Murad, Hares, Aziz and oth-
 ers," said his deputy.
     When communists took power in Kabul in 1978, Basir and his brother were teaching in a school in Yaftal, close to Faizabad. Basir was transferred to Munjan sub-district which was a re mote area.
     Basir started to organize people against the local government in Munjan. He worked very hard to get weapons and attack the government It took him seven months to plan the attack . It was 12 April, 1979 when Basir with the help of the local people launched the first armed attack against the local government and captured the sub-districL
     After the first victory. Commander Basir came to Peshawar to talk to Jami'at leader. Prof. Rabbani, and get help. Commander Basir did not stay long in Peshawar. He bought some weapons and a small amount of ammunition and went back to Badakhshan. "He knew that he could no longer go to the classes. He would not be able to teach but to learn from the war and the people." said his deputy.
     He chose Yaftal as his first base. Badakhshan province, highly mountain-bus, is located in the extreme northeast of Afghanistan: Pamir mountain, the roof of the world, is located in Badakhshan. Wakhan which looks like a camel's neck is situated between Russia, China, and Pakistan. Darwaz, another district of Badakhshan, is surr rounded by the Soviets from three sides. All these made Badakhshan strategic both for the Russians and the Mujahideen.
     Commander Basir knowing the above facts tried to establish his bases and think of a relatively better organization. Very soon commander Basir became one of the important commanders of Jamiat in Badakhshan.
      Commander Basir’s military targets were the security belts around the city of Faizabad, the security posts around the airport and infiltrating the city itself.
     Commander Basir’s base became a target repeated Russian attacks. "He survived two very large offensives one in 1984 and the other in 1985.” said his deputy.
     Commander Basir is considered a brave fighter in his area. He is respected and admired by his people.
 Mujaddidi elected Head of State, Sayyaf Prime Minister
From page (1)
 The ministerial posts were also divided according to the same principle.
     In the elections which were held on February 24, Mujaddidi won the highest number of seats with Prof. Sayyaf coming second.
     The defense ministry went to Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi. Interior Ministry wait to Khalis, Foreign ministry to Hikmatyar’s party. Supreme Court to Gailani and Reconstruction to Prof. Rabbani.
     The provinces close to the border and Kabul sent most of the delegates. Ningarhar sent 36 delegates, Paktia 29, Logar 30, Kunar 23 and Laghman 15. Herat sent 12 delegates, Faryab seven, Badakhshan seven and Kunduz 13.
     The highest number of delegates -44- came from Kabul and the lowest from Nimroz which sent 2 delegates to the Council. Some parties ignored the recommendation of the supreme council and sent many delegates from one province and none from others. This was the reason for uneven representation of the provinces in the council.
     Though the president and prime minister have been appointed it has not been decided what responsibility each will have. This may cause some ten sion in the future.
     The top vite-winners, Mujaddidi and Sayyaf, head the two small parties, Sayyaf is considered to be a so-called fundamentalist with close ties with Wahabi circles in the Middle East.
     Mojaddidi leads a so-called moderate group. He is a traditional scholar with close ties with die ex-king now living in Italy.
      So far the assumption is that the fall of the regime is inevitable and might be an easy task. The role of the interim government will start after the fall of the regime. What role the gov-emment will play if the war continues for longer than is generally expected is not clear.
      Few field commanders participated in the meeting of the council. The attitude of major commanders towards the new government has vital importance.
 ------ —----—--AFGHANews Vol5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 6
      Regime air force may delay Mujahideen's victory
    A regime commander who defected to the Mujahideen predicts that the final phase of the war will be bloody.
    Mohammad Asif, 38, the commander of 377 air brigade of the regime before he defected to the Mujahideen three months ago, said that the regime airforce will play an important role in future fighting between the Mujahideen and the communist regime.
    Mohammad Asif, who was trained as a helicopter pilot in the Soviet Union eighteen years ago was sent again during the communists' rule to be trained as a commander. He speaks Russian fluently.
    Mohammad Asif was a pilot of Ml-17 helicopter in the communist airforce and participated in many operations against the Mujahideen.
    His brigade won the title of ’Heros of Afghanistan1 in 1988.
    Since transport of goods and people is a major problem of the regime, Asif was asked to describe the capabilities of regime transport
    He said that regime has 12 AN-12, 12 AN-32 and 20 AN-26 transport planes. An AN-12 can cany up to 10 tons of load. An AN-32 can cany SO men and AN-26 22 men.
    Most of the regime's transport planes are stationed in Mazar-e-Sharif from where goods are transported to dif-ferent areas.
                                                            Bagram
    Commander Asif said that Bagram air base, about 30 kilometers north of the Kabul; city, is the biggest base in Afghanistan. This base is used by jets and no helicopter unit is stationed in the base. Khwaja Rawash air base on the outskirts of the city houses only helicopters. Three other airbases in which, warplanes are stationed are Kandahar, Shindand and Mazar-i-Sharif airports.
    Jalalabad, Ghazni, Faizabad, Gardez and Kunduz airports are used to land goods but no airplane of any kind is permanently stationed in them.
    About the number of regime's helicopters Brigadier Asif said the regime had 25 Ml-35 and nine Ml-17 helicopters in Khwaja Rawash.
    In Shindand, in the west of Afghanistan, 15 Ml-35 and eight Ml-8 woe stationed. Kandahar had 5 Ml-8
 and Mazar 20 Ml-17 and eighth Ml-8 helicopters.
     About the specification of Ml-35 helicopters he said that it is an improved version of Ml-24. Its engine is stronger, its aiming system is more precise and has an improved guided missile. It is manned by two inen, a pilot and a gunner.
     Mohammad Asif said that the two pilots, Arif and Abdul Hay who defected to the Mujahideen in Panjshir with their helicopters belonged to his brigade and he personally knew than.
                                                                  Shindand
     To increase the payload of the helicopters the Kabul regime has taken away rocket pods of some Ml-8 and Ml-17 helicopters. These pods weights 1,000 kilograms. Ml-17 can transport 24 soldiers while Ml-24 can carry only eight commandos.
     About the regime's jet fighters, he said that 35 Mig-21 and 21 Su-22 jets were stationed in Bagram.
     In Kandahar there were 12 Mig-21 jets which were later transferred to Shindand due to security problems. In Shindand there were 7 Mig-21 and 10 Su-22 jets.
     Three months ago the regime had a plan to bring 60 new helicopters and station them in different airports.
     Mohammad Asif said that these numbers did not include the Soviet helicopters and other planes left behind after the Soviet withdrawal. There was talk of leaving some of the Soviet planes for the regime before the withdrawal.
     He said jets and helicopters use T-l oil which was brought to Bagram through a pipeline running from the Soviet border to Bagram base along the Salang highway. He said that each airport may have fuel supplies for 2 to 3 flights of the planes stationed in it.
     Brigadier Asif said that after die introduction of Stinger missiles the Soviets and regime losses of aircraft and helicopters increased sharply.
     Measures were taken to protect the planes against Stinger missiles, which included use of dock flares, widening of the security belt of the airports because planes are more vulnerable during landing and take off, and fixing new equipment in helicopters to emit special waves to mislead the missiles.
     About the training programs for the pilots, he said that training took
 place in Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan, Feronz Academy in Qirghizia in the Soviet Union where helicopter pilots are trained, and another academy which trained jet pilots.
     He said that all the pilots have received membership cards of the PDPA but only 40% of the pilots are loyal to the regime. This is a high percentage compared to other sections of the army because the communists are very careful in recruiting pilots.
     When asked about the capabilities of the regime airforce to transport food, fuei and ammunition he said that at the present level they are able to supply 20% of the requirements.
     In reply to a question as to what step the Mujahideen should take to minimize the risk of the airforce he said that they should announce an amnesty and make sure that the news reaches everyone in the airforce.
     He said that pilots living with the Mujahideen could play an important role in persuading others to defect.
                                                        Soviet Union
     Brigadier Asif revealed that a large number of pilots are being trained in the Soviet Union.
     He predicted that the air force will play a key role in the war.
     He was of the opinion that the fight with the regime will be very bloody. He said that the regime has armed the party workers. There are a large number of officers who are communists and they have experience in war. " The war will be a tough on," he said.
     Commander Asif said that Soviet air support for the regime after the withdrawal of their troops could not be ruled out He had heard Soviet advisers taking about such involvements.
     Commander Asif said that he had been in contact with Jami'at for a long time and lately his brother was arrested by the regime in connection with Jami'at. He was about to be interrogated. Making use of the lull created by the Soviet withdrawal he managed to escape.
     When asked which Mujahideen leaders the pilots talked the most, he named Ahmad Shah Masood, among die commanders, and Hikmatyar ant Prof. Rabbani among the political leadeis.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1, 1989, page 7
  Human
                 Soviets ask for arms embargo after arming Kabul regime
 violations
     Some 5.5 million refugees who lied the war in Afghanistan are the country's "most fundamental human rights problem", according to the latest report by a UN appointed investigator, issued recently.
     It also cited what it called "reliable reports" of continued human rights violations by Afghan authorities.
     The report said that due to "the seriousness of the suffering" of the Afghan people, "the situation remains a matter of deep concern".
     Casualties from fighting between government forces and Mujahideen have >een rising over the past two months after a temporary decline, the report said. On February 15, the Soviet Union completed the withdrawal of Red Army troops that were backing the government.
     The report also said hospitals in Pakistan and Afghanistan reported a drastic rise in victims of anti-personnel mines in December and January.
     Civilians, including children, were the main victims in the resurgence of fighting immediately before the completion of the Soviet withdrawal, the repent said.
     In his updated report, the Special UN Envoy on Human Rights in Afghanistan said new information gathered during his latest visit to the area indicated Soviet troops laid new land mines during their withdrawal.
     Austrian Law Professor Felix Ermacora prepared the update for the current annual session of the UN Human Rights Commission.
     After presenting his last report to the General Assembly, he visited Pakistan and Afghanistan from Jan. 27 to Feb. 5 to gather new data.
     Mr. Ermacora appealed to all sides in the Afghan conflict to respect minimum human rights standards and international humanitarian law on conduct during civil strife.
     He said reliable reports suggest Afghan police and secret agents still use torture and mistreatment during interrogations.
     More Afghan refugees have reportedly streamed into neighboring Pakistan in the past few months to escape bombing in several Afghan provinces, the report said. Some three million Afghan refugees are in Pakistan, with most of the rest in Iran.
     Soviet Union intensified diplomatic efforts in support of the Kabul regime immediately after the completion of the Soviet troop withdrawal.
     Yuri Vorontsov,, Soviet Ambassador to Kabul and Deputy Foreign Minister, visited India to talk with Indian officials about the postwithdrawal situation in Afghanistan.
     He met Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandi and the Foreign Minister.
     At the end of his visit he spoke at a press conference.He criticized the US policy on Afghanistan and claimed that some Mujahideen groups had established contacts with Najibulla's regime but refused to identify the groups.
     The Mujahideen believe that the allegation was designed to create division among the Mujahideen.Since the regime is in a very bad position, no Mujahideen group of significant influence will be interested in such contacts.
     Earlier, Vorontsov had visited Iran to discuss the Afghan situation with Iranian Leaders.
     Soviet leader Mecheal Gorbachev sent a letter to President George Bush regarding the situation in Afghanistan.
     A US spokesman said that Gorbachev’s message was not different from his public statements.
     The Soviet Union had proposed to the UN in November last year a three-point plan which asked for a ceasefire, arms embargo to both sides in the con-
 flict and the establishment of a broad-based government in Kabul.
    The proposal for an arms embargo was rejected by the US because the Soviets have left behind great quantities of arms and ammunition and have given new weapon systems to the Najib's regime.
    The Soviet Union also has asked the chairman of the Security Council to consult with the members of that body about the three-point proposal.
    The Council president, Jai Prataj Rona of Nepal informed the Soviet Ambassador to the UN that no consensus was found among the members of the Security Council on the proposal.
    A Soviet spokesman in Moscow said that his government has sent messages to West European countries, the Arab league and Organization of Islamic Conference, seeking their help for what he called ending bloodshed in Afghanistan.
    The Mujahideen have rejected the Soviet proposal and think that it is designed to protect the regime.
      The Kabul regime has asked the UN to set up permanent posts along the Pak-Afghan border to monitor the implementation of the Geneva Accords. The UN Secretary-General is studying the proposal. There are 50 UN personnel stationed in Kabul and Islamabad who monitor the implementation of the Geneva Accords.

                      Congratulates-' Prof.Rabbani, Com.Masood
   ‘ \          • !. ’ ’ ' - • ::'v:: ■ :..V ' '
   Dr. Zygrount Szkopiak, the Foreign Minister of the f Poli|h                  in London, has sent two
                                                                        Rabfeani and commander
            folldl^dwith great admiradon tfc^strtiggie^ against Soviet ig^S!Sor^:in; the past 1G years.                '     s ^
                                                               'hawfiaid'o®the Minister said. \
 $;||,,B^;;said tfcif after the retreat of tH8||ect Arm^ freeing;: Afghanistan from the Communist regime is only a matter of
                                                    ;;i|; ,=' % 4f • N "
                                                 Dir- Si&di#;hias- wished a quic&econdmlO: recovery: •
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 5, March 1,1989, page 8
Mujahideen planning final attak on Herat
Rivalries
make
prisoner
governor
    The new governor of Ningarhar province is a KHAD agent who escaped from prison in Panjshir with the help of a Resistance party.
    Major-General Manokai Mangal a KHAD agent who tried to establish a rival group in Panjshir against Masood in 1980- was arrested and tried by the Mujahideen.
    He was serving a long-term prison sentence in jail when he escaped with the help of some local agents of KhAD to the neighboring valley in Andarab.
    He and his guides surrendered to Juma Khan, the commander of Hezb Islami. Juma Khan was asked by Jami'at to return the KHAD agents but he refused.
    A deal was made between Juma Khan and the regime and Manokai was handed over to the regime.
    Juma Khan joined the regime as a militiaman in 1983 and later was killed by the Mujahideen of Andarab.
    He assumed important positions in KhAD and finally was posted to Ningarhar to infiltrate the refugees in Pakistan.
    He used his old friends to create problems for Masood. Some of his agents were responsible for creating problems for Masood's transportation lines in Nooristan.
    These agents created problems under the cover of the same party which had handed over Manokai to the regime.
                                                 Afghans play Buzkashi in Lahore
    Afghan Mujahideen participated in a . national festival in Pakistan for foe first time by presenting a Buzkashi game(Goat Snatching) at foe Fortress Stadium on February 24.
    The sport, which originated on foe banks of foe Amo River in Afghanistan, was presented by two 14-member teams of the Mujahideen at foe 38th National Horse and Cattle Show after presenting their traditional cap and Chapan to president Ghulam Ishaq.
     Commander Allauddin, Deputy of Commander Ismail Khan, said that Jami'at Islami has adopted a two-pronged policy for the liberation of Herat province.
     Efforts are being made to forge closer unity between the Mujahideen in Herat and to coordinate their activi-ties.The process of infiltration into the enemy's institutions has intensified. These two things will help the Mujahideen to defeat the enemy, Commander Allauddin said to Afghanews in Peshawar.
     He said that the commanders from Jami'at in Herat held a meeting on February 18 to discuss current issues.
     Commander Allauddin, who left Herat 20 days ago, said that the Soviet withdrawal has weakened the regime's position in that province. Kushk district, close to the Soviet border, was liberated when 600 government troops laid down their arms. About 300 soldiers of the regime stationed in Band Salma (Salma Dam), 60 kilometers east of the Herat city, surrendered to the Mujahideen. Twenty villages controlled by pro-regime militias, close to the city of Herat, were liberated and 200 militiamen joined the Mujahideen. The Heral-Kandahar road and the Heral-Islam Qala road to the border is cut by the Mujahideen.
     The above victories were achieved a few days after the Soviet withdrawal, commander Allauddin said.
     He was of the opinion that the fall of important cities like Herat and. Kandahar needed escalation of war all over Afghanistan so that the regime could not send reinforcement
     He said that Soviets had left behind a lot of weapons to the regime forces in Herat and even given sophisticated
 weapons to the militia groups.
     Commander Allauddin felt the need for closer contact between commanders. He said that commanders contacted each other through couriers but now they must have wireless contacts to coordinate their military activities.
     Commander Allauddin said the Soviets might continue to bomb the Mujahideen when the regime is faced with a critical situation. He predicted that such air raids against Herat may be launched from the Kushk airbase close to the Afghan border. The Soviets used Kushk airbase over the past nine years to bomb Mujahideen in the west of the country.
     About the reconstruction of the country after the war, he said that it was a major task. A seven-member UN team visited Herat in the fall and discussed reconstruction issues with Commander Ismail Khan.
     The UN delegation, headed by Akbar Sujlo from Turkey, stayed in the area for one week. The team came to Herat through Iran.
     Allauddin Khan has come to Peshawar to get humanitarian and other forms of assistance for his organization.
     About the Consultative Council which was discussing the formation of an interim government, the Mujahideen commander said that since the weak and strong parties were given the same weight, he did not believe it could work well.
     An equal share for each party is not the right way to solve the problem. He was of the opinion that Jami'at was a big party but its decision-making role in the Council was equal to small and ineffective parties. He attributed this to the weak organizational structure of Jami'at.
Mujahideen leaders meet Turkey President
   The Mujahideen leaders met the President of Turkey, Kinan Evran, in Islamabad on February 18.
   Afghanistan has had cordial relations with Turkey and that country has supported the Mujahideen's struggle for the liberation of their country.
   Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jamiat Islami was among the leaders who met the president of Turkey.
   Several thousand Afghan refugees live in Turkey. There are several million Afghans who speak the Turkish language (local dialects) and the people of the two countries believe in Islam.
Vol 5, No 6                                              March 15,1989
        Interim Government cabinet meets inside Afghanistan
                     Dr.Sakharov criticizes Soviet Airforce
     The well-known Soviet dissident , Andri Sakharov, has said that the Soviet air force bombed and killed 30 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan not to let them be captured by the Mujahideen.
     He revealed this in Ottawa, Canada at beginning of March. He also said that Soviet Union lost 50,000 men in a useless war in Afghanistan.
     Andri Sakharov was the first Soviet who opposed Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He was banished from Moscow for his anti-war comments.
     The commands of Soviet forces in Afghanistan rejected Sakharov's allegations.
     The attack was directed against the enemy garrisons in Samar Khail, east of the city, the airport and around the city itself.
     The Mujahideen captured Samar Khail garrison and took more than 200 prisoners. Fighting for the control of the other places still continues.
     Jalalabad is the provincial capital of Ningarhar province located about 75 kilometers from the Pakistan border.
     After the Soviet troops withdrawal from the province, the Mujahideen liberated all the districts and brought under control the road connecting Jalalabad to Pakistan through Toorkham.
     Jalalabad is a fortified city and the troops, militiamen, KHAD units withdrawn from Kunar province and the districts of Ningarhar province have been
    The first meeting of the cabinet of the Interim Government of Afghan Mujahideen was held inside Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia was the first country to recognize the Interim Government.
    The meeting was held in Shiwa, Khost district of Paktia province, on March 10.
    The meeting was presided over by Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, the President of the Interim Government
     A group of the enemy officers and soldiers captured in the war was presented to the journalists. Among them was a 13- years old soldier who was captured and put into the army by force.
     Casualties on berth sides are said to be heavy. Kabul regime has admitted losing a general in the fighting. The Mujahideen casualties reach more than 100 killed and more than 200 wounded. Most of these have been hit by bombs or land mines.
     The Mujahideen use captured tanks against the enemy.
     Lt General Abdul Haq Uloomi, the spokesman of the regime war council has admitted fierce fighting for control
             Turn to page (3 )
     Eighty six foreign and Afghan journalists reported the event. Mujaddidi called the fust meeting of the cabinet a historic happening.
     He thanked Saudi Arabia for the recognition of the Mujahideen’s government and asked other coun tries to extend their recognition.
     Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the interim government introduced 14 ministers of his 28-member cabinet. The names of the ministers, their party affiliation and portfolios are:
     Maulawi* Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi the chief of Harakat-e-Inqelabe Islami, Defense Minister; Mohammad Shah Fazli, Harakat, Minister of Scientific Research; Maulawi Islamuddin, Harakat, Minister of Agriculture; Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, leader of Hizb Islami, Foreign Minister; Ali Ansari, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Minster of Frontiers; Qazi Najiullah, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Minister of Justice; Younus Khalis the head of Hezb-i- Islami, Minister of Interior, Haji Dean Mohammad, Hezb Islami (Khalis), Minister of Natioinal Security; Maulawi Abdur Razaq, Hezb Islami (Khalis), Minister of Religious Affairs; Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader. Minister of Reconstruction, Najibullah Lafraii, Jami'at Islami, Minister of Islamic guidance, Eshan Jan, Jami'at Islami, Minister of Mining and Industries; Ahmad Shah, Ittihad-e-Islami, Minister of Communications; Sayyed Nadir Khurram Jabha-e-Mili, Minister of Health. N1FA lead by Gailani has not introduced any ministers to the cabinet
     The rest of the ministers will be chosen from Iran-based Mujahideen parties, good Muslims in Kabul and intellectuals who are living in exile.
     Only nine ministers were present
              Turn to page (3 )
                   fighting for Jalalabad control continues
  The Mujahideen forces launched an offensive to liberate the city of JalalabadJn the fighting which started on March 7, more than four thousand Mujahideen belonging to different parties of the Mujahideen are taking part.
                    assigned to defend it
__________________________  AFGHANews Vol5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 2
r
News
                     From the battlefields
- ______________ «
      Salang
     The Mujahideen repulsed an enemy attack against the Mujahideen in Hayjan, a side-valley of Salang on February 26. Eleven enemy soldiers were captured and an unknown number were killed in the attack.
     On the same day, eight enemy soldiers joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at after killing the political commissar of their unit The defectors were stationed in Qala-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley .They brought with them eight guns.
     On February 28, eight enemy soldiers based in Qala-i-Suikh defected to the Mujahideen in Salang bring with them six guns and two rocket launchers.
     On March 3, the Mujahideen launched simultaneous attacks against the enemy positions in Salang, Jabul Seraj, Charikar. the provincial capital of Parwan, and Bagram air base. One post in Sangak area in Salang was captured. The enemy launched three counter-attacks to recapture the post but failed. In the course of fighting, 80 enemy soldiers were killed and 40 soldiers and officers were captured. The enemy also lost two tanks. Seven Mujahideen, three persons from Salang and four from Panjshir, were killed in the fighting.
     The enemy garrisons in Jabul Seraj, Charikar and Bagram were pounded by the heavy weapons of the Mujahideen. The enemy losses could not be immediately estimated.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed three tanks and two trucks of the enemy in Totom Dara at the mouth of Salang valley.
     On March 7, the enemy attacked the Mujahideen positions in Salang. The Mujahideen had captured several posts along the road inside the valley and had brought two sections of the road under their control. The enemy has failed to drive the Mujahideen out of
 their positions.
    On March 11, fifteen soldiers defected to the Mujahideen bringing along their weapons.
    On March 6, Captain Abdul Hakim Wardak the commander of a unit of a Special Guard of the regime was killed when the helicopter carrying him came under the Mujahideen attack in. Charikar, the provincial capital, of Parwan. A DShK bullet passing through the helicopter killed him.
    In the past two weeks the areas controlled by Jami'at in flat and mountainous parts of Parwan and around Bagram airbase have been bombed by the enemy planes. Twenty civilians have been killed as a result of these bombardments.
    Salang is also being bombed from the air and by artillery.
                                                                                                        Balkh province
     More than one hundred militiamen, headed by Abdullah Padarwatan, joined the Mujahideen from Jami'at on February 23. Hie group brought with it more than 100 rifles, one 76mm gun, three PK machine guns, one mortar and two trucks.
    On March 4, the Mujahideen captured an enemy post around Mazar city. Six soldiers and one officer were killed and three soldiers were cap-tured.The Mujahideen seized nine rifles, two PK machine guns and one communication set of model R-105. One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
                                                    Herat province
     On February 17, more than one hundred militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Dahna-i-Zulfiqar in Gulran district Dahna-i-Zulfiqar has common borders with Iran and Soviet Union.
    On February 25, militia commander, Zia Khan, defected to the Mujahideen with his 40 men in Kariz Sufi, 2Km west of Herat city . They brought with them 50 Kalashnikov rifles and eight pistols.
    On February 26, the Mujahideen from Jami'at shot down an enemy jet in Shindand area with a Stinger missile.
    On the same day, three militiamen were killed and ten militiamen were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their posts in the western part of the city of Herat. Three Mujahideen were martyred and one Mujahid was wounded in the operation.
    Badghis province
    Two hundred militiamen from Qadis district defected to the Mujahideen from Jami'at under Naik Mohammad, the chief commander of Badghis, on February 24. They brought with them the following weapons:
    1.    More than 200 pieces of light weapons
    2. Twelve trucks and cars
    3.    Four single barrel ZPU (14,5mm anti aircraft) guns.
    4. Eight DShK guns
    By the defection of these militiamen Qadis district came under control of the Mujahideen.
    Kabul province
    Forty enemy soldiers were captured and 5 killed when the Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Ezat attacked an enemy post in Karaiz-e-Mir about 10 Kilometers north of the city on March 10.
    The Mujahideen seizd 40 rifles, one BM-40 rocket launcher, one BM-14 rocket launcher and four R-105 wireless sets.
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed two tanks and 15 trucks belonging to the enemy near Nopula of Qarabagh district on Salang high way on March 9.
    Jawzjan Province
    Ten enemy soldiers were captured, five soldiers were killed and four soldiers were injured when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked their post 12 Kilometer away from Shiberghan city on February 9.
    The Mujahideen destroyed the post and seized nine guns and one pistol.
           Turn to page ( 3 )
■AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 3
               Interim Government meets inside Afghanistan
                          From page (1)
                                                News
                                                From page (2)
One Mujahid was killed and another was wounded.
   On February 15, the Mujahideen ambushed an enemy patrol destroying one jeep and killing a communist.
   On February 20, an enemy convoy which was going from Shiberghan, the provincial capital of Jawzjan, to Mazar-i-Sharif was ambushed in Samawar-i-Safid area. Two armored cars and one truck were destroyed and an unknown number of the enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
   The report adds that since the February 15, about 450 enemy soldiers and militiamen have defected to the Mujahideen throughout the province.
                                           Baghlan Province
   On March 4, two Scud missiles were fired into Andarab valley in Baghlan. One of the missile hit Rashidi village in Qasan, side-valley killing 25 people and destroying 4 houses. The other missile landed on a mountain.
of Jalalabad and said to the reporters that re-inforcement was sent to that city.
    A large number of civilians have left the city to avoid the war. They have crossed the border to Pakistan. The Mujahideen encourage the evacuation of the city from the civilian population to minimize the casualties of the civilians.
    The regime forces make extensive use of their air force to push the Mujahideen out of the areas they have captured. Several planes have been shot down by the Mujahideen, possibly with Stingo’ missiles.
    Before launching die major attack, the Mujahideen announced a general amnesty for all those who joined them. The purpose was to minimize the bloodshed as much as possible.
    Fighting for control of Jalalabad was more difficult and longer than some Mujahideen parties were expecting.
    As usual, the communist regime in Kabul and the Soviet Union accuse Pakistan of direct involvement in fighting around Jalalabad. Pakistan has rejected the allegations.
    If Jalalabad is captured it will be a
 at the first meeting of the cabinet. Three of the seven leaders, Hikmatyar, Khalis and Gailani were not present in the meeting.
     After the cabinet meeting and introduction of the minsters, Prime Minister Sayyaf addressed a press conference and hoped that the next meeting of the cabinet will be held somewhere closer to Kabul.
     It is believed that as long as the regime controls the major air bases, the Mujahideen can not establish a government infrastructure in liberated areas because they do not have an effective air defense system.
     One day before the cabinet meeting Saudi Arabia announced its decision to recognize the interim government of the Mujahideen.
     On February 24, Mujaddidi, the President of the Mujahideen government, called for the recognition the in-
major military victory for. the Mujahideen and will demoralized the communist forces in the rest of the country.
    On the other hand, if the war turns out to be long, the regime will claim that it is able to defend itself without Soviets direct support
    The surprising thing about the Jalalabad operation was leaving the Kabul-Jalalabad road open. The Regime sent re-inforcemenis and supplies to the besieged city.
    Eye witnesses admire the courage of the Mujahideen in fighting around Jalalabad. Despite high rate of casualties the morale of the Mujahideen is high.
    The leading party in Ningarhar is Hezb Islami (Khalis) followed by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Ittehadi-e-Islami (Sayyaf). NIFA ( Gailani), Jami'at Islami and others. Cooperation between of different parties is good.
    The fire power of the Mujahideen in the Jalalabad fighting is strong and partly it is because of shorter and easier supply lines.
    The communist regime has admitted that the city has been heavily de-
 terim government.
     The United States, Pakistan and Iran have not recognized the Interim government of the Mujahideen.
     The United States has set certain criteria for the government to meet in order to make legible for recognition. The criteria includes control over large territory, civil administration and fulfillment of International, obligations.
     Iran would like to see the participation of Iran-based parties in the Government before considering, its recognition.
     Gulbuddin Hikmatyar went to Iran to discuss the problem of the participation of Iran-based parties in the interim government A delegation of Iran-based parties may come to Pakistan for further discussions.
     Iran-based parties bycotted the meetings of the Consultative Council over the number of seats allocated to them. They were offered 60 seats while they asked for 120 seats in the council.
     The Mujahideen have asked the Organization of Islamic Conference to give the Afghan seat to the interim government of the Mujahideen.
     A similar request also has been made by the head of Kabul regime. Dr. Najibullah. The seat of Afghanistan in OIC has remained vacant since 1979.
     OIC Foreign Ministers meeting was opened in Saudi Arabia on March 13. The Afghan issue will come under discussion in the meeting.
     Recognition of the interim government of the Mujahideen by Saudi Arabia has increased the chance of Mujahideen's success on the diplomatic fioilt.
     Earlier, Sibghatullah Mujaddidi the President of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan asked Afghans to remain united against the communist regime.
     In his first speech to the Afghan nation which was broadcasted through the clandestine Mujahideen Radio, Voice of Afghanistan, he said that Soviet withdrawal was a historic victory.
     Mujaddidi said that the interim government of Mujahideen wanted the regime to be defeated, the country to be reconstructed and general elections to be hold in the country.
     Two more countries, Sudan and Bahrain has recognized the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
Fighting for control of Jalalabad
                                From page (1)
-AFGHANews Vol5, No 6,March 15, 1989, page 4
  Editorial
                               Mujahideen enter into new phase of war
    The fighting around Jalalabad and Salang give clues to the future pattern of the military developments in Afghanistan.
    Najibullah's regime has survived at least one month without Soviet’s direct support It needs to be defeated through military action.
    Developments also refute the assumption that the Mujahideen will march towards Kabul and each party will try to get control of Kabul before others.
    Fighting against the regime has continued all over the country but in two areas, Jalalabad and Salang, the developments have been significant
    Fighting along the Salang highway has continued for more than a month. The Mujahideen have not launched a massive attack against the enemy and fighting is done by the local Mujahideen groups along the highway. The Kabul regime has tried to keep the road open and even has gone on the offensive to push the Mujahideen away from the road without much success. Aerial and artillery bombardments of the area, especially the bases controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North, are the targes of this campaign.
    In Jalalabad the Mujahideen have launched a massive attack to capture it. While fighting along the Salang highway is fought by the old guerrilla tactics, fighting against Jalalabad has turned into a conventional war. Massive troop concentrations and artillery duals are part of the Jalalabad campaign.
    Hie fire power of the Mujahideen in Jalalabad is strong. But it will be a mistake to think of a similar fire power in other parts of the country because of insufficient numbers of weapons and shortages of ammunition.
    The enemy is making extensive use of air power to push the Mujahideen out of their positions. There is an urgent need for more effective anti-air defense system to minimize the casualties and insure the victory.
    The story that US government wants to take back some of the Stinger missiles came at a time when the Mujahideen were facing the enemy's aerial bombardments and a large number of casualties had been inflicted on them by the enemy air force.
    If the story is true, it indicates lack of understanding of the military situation on the part of the American Administration. The war seems to be long and more Stinger missiles are needed to avoid a disaster.
    The outcome of the Jalalabad campaign is of significant importance to both sides in the conflict If the city is captured in the near future, the enemy morale will fall further.
    The fall of Jalalabad will be a military as well as a political victory for the Mujahideen who have setup an interim government.
    If the war is prolonged, the enemy will claim that it repulsed the Mujahideen attack after the Soviet withdrawal.Therefore, both sides will try their best to win this battle.
    This war is worth a close inspection because to the Mujahideen it is a new type of war and for the regime it is the first major battle fought after the Soviets withdrawal.
    Fighting in Jalalabad is still fought on a regional base without being coordinated with fightings in the rest of the country. The enemy is not facing major attacks in the rest of the country. It will permit it to concentrate on Jalalabad and even to send reinforcements.
                                                          The Kabul-Jalalabad road was not blocked by the Mujahideen when they launched the major attack against Jalalabad. It indicates problems in coordination
                                                                                                         Turn to page ( 6 )
              Jami'at promotes wrestling in Exile
    Two Afghan wrestlers have decided to promote wrestling among refugees by forming a club with the help of Jami'at .
    Assadullah, 46, from Kabul and Abdul Baqi, 35, from Ningargar are the two trainers of Hazrat Ali wrestling club.
    The club has 30 students 12 of whom are ready for competition with other teams.
    In order to support their families, the two trainers have jobs. Assadullah is a tailor who makes fur coats and fur hats.
    Assadullah is happy about the result of his work as a trainer. He said that his students contested four times last year, twice in Frontier province and twice in Punjab province. His team won the first position in Frontier Province and the second position in Punjab.
    Assadullah said that wrestling was a popular sport in Afghanistan and Afghan wrestlers participated in International contests.
    The famous wreslters of the Afghan national team before the war were Ahmad Jan, Ibrahim,Seddiq Zargar, Agha Shireen, Anwar, Jami'at commander in Sorobi district. Khalifa Nizam and Ameer Jan.
    Hazrat Ali club is supported by the Education Committee of Jami'at Islami and the purpose of its establishment is to preserve a traditional Afghan sport.
    When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan most of the wrestlers of the national team became refugees and some like commander Anwar, and Agha Shireen, who died three years ago, took arms to defend their country.
    Asadullah said that his students practice four days a week and are taught new techniques once a week. Once a week the wrestlers lubricate their bodies and the club is closed on friday.
    Asadullah said that his students are ready to participate in international wrestling contests and asked the Mujahideen leaders to pave the way for Afghan sportsmen to participate in international contests.
                                                                                     Ja c a /f---ic i non ____c                
iUMlUVlVTTO T j) iYMUVI1 AJj }^ag^ ^                                                                                           
W/w is who in the Mujc                                                               known as the commander of Keshm.          
Ghulam Moham                                                                         He organized his Mujahideen and esta¬     
Ghulam Mohammad Aryanpoor a                 xhideen                                  blished a civil administration to help    
soft spoken educated commander was          mad Aryanpoor                            the civilian population. Except for the   
bom 42 years ago in the village of          dent Daud's regime for allowing the      city, he liberated 90% of Keshm in        
Kangoorchi in Keshm district of             communists to work freely and impris¬    1985.                                     
Badakhshan province. His father,Usta        oning Muslim activists . It was 1977     When he had organized Keshm val¬          
Karim, was a cobbler who was keen           that Daud sent Aryanpoor along with      ley, he was contacted by Commander        
enough to send Aryanpoor to the             other Muslim activists such as           Masood and became one of the founders     
school. Before going to primary             Salahuddin, Nooruddin and Abdul          of the Supervisory Council. His group,    
school, Aryanpoor was sent to the           Mabood behind the bars in Faizabad,      participated in the operations against    
mosque to learn Quran and basics of         the capital of Badakhshan.               the garrisons namely Farkhar,             
Islam.                                      He was released after eight months.      Kalafgan, Nahrin and Kuran-Munjan.        
Aryanpoor completed his primary             He resumed teaching in a primary         His Mujahideen liberated the city of      
and middle school in the Keshm and          school in Keshm . After ten months he    Keshm in August of 1988.                  
went to Kabul when he was about 20          was transferred to a remote primary      Aryanpoor took control of the city        
years old to study in Darulmualemeen        school in Ishkashem district along the   and ran the administration of the fallen  
(Teachers Training Institute). "He was      Soviet border. "It was a punishment for  city through committees.                  
the most hard working and talented stu¬     him because he was always closely        He established about 37 primary           
dent. He scored the highest marks and       watched by the government agents and     schools and some Madrasas in Keshm        
was always getting first division in his    was not allowed to go out of that area   valley. He opened schools for girls and   
class." said his representative Abdul       without government permission." said     boys . His medical clinics helped the     
Mabood in Peshawar.                         Abdul Mabood. Since he remained ac¬      civilian population beyond their expec¬   
" This was that time when he got            tive, the government imprisoned him      tations. His judicial committee was       
involved in the politics . He met a lot     again. He served some times in           unique in the province. He helped the     
of students from/different parts of         Faizabad Jail and later was sent to      civilians to rebuild their bombed irriga¬ 
Afghanistan. That was the time when         Kabul Puli Charkhi prison by the         tion system. He also built new water      
communists were active at the universi¬     Taraki regime.                           channels.                                 
ty and in the institution where             When the Soviets invaded                 Commander Aryanpoor conducts a            
Aryanpoor was studying." said one of        Afghanistan, they released some prison¬  simple life, speaks slowly, answers the   
his friend now living in Pakistan.          ers including Aryanpoor.                 questions in the shortest possible sen¬   
_ "Aryanpoor was closely studying           Aryanpoor went to Badakhshan             tences. He reads and writes a lot. He     
the political situation and its future cur¬ and joined the Mujahideen. He esta¬      wants his Mujahideen to be ardent         
rents in Kabul. He consciously became       blished his base in the mountains of     Muslims, brave fighters, honest ser¬      
part of the anti-communist Muslim           Keshm. He was called at that time        vants of the people. No one can culti¬    
students who actively worked amongst        Ustad Aryanpoor. He was a committed      vate poppy and hashish in area under      
the intellectual circles in the Kabul       anti-communism who wanted to orga¬       his control. He was die first command¬    
University and other educational insti¬     nize the people to neutralize the com¬   er to ban smoking cigarettes in Keshm.    
tutions." said his representative.          munists' activities. "Even in the prison He is respected as a teacher, loved       
He met for the first time Prof.             of Puli Charkhi, Aryanpoor organized     as an elder brother and taken as a seri¬  
Burhanuddin Rabbani, Omar Shaheed           some of the prisoners to act against the ous commander by his Mujahideen and       
and Niazi. Aryanpoor stayed about           iegime.nsaid one of his friend.          people. He has lost his son, his mother   
three years in Kabul to complete his        Keshm is one of the strategic,           and many other close relatives in the     
studies and in 1972 was appointed a         mountainous districts of Badakhshan. In  war against the Soviets. Com. Masood      
teacher in Keshm district in the same       a very short time Aryanpoor became       is one of his admirers.                   
high school which he had studied in.        Lithuanians praise                       Afghans' victory                          
For five years he taught different          The seventh Lithuanian                   Afghanistan marks the beginning           
subjects. Besides being a teacher,          world congress convened in               of the end of the atheistic Soviet        
Aryanpoor was the leader of those stu¬      Toronto, Canada on                       empire based on coercion and na¬          
dents and teachers who were aeainst         February 16 has congratu¬                tional oppression. We hope that           
communism and communists' regional-         lated Afghan freedom fight¬              sooner or later it will lave to           
ist ideas, such as 'Setam Milli' party.     ers for their victory.                   withdraw from other captive               
Every day one could see Aryanpoor un¬       The congress, in which elect¬            countries including Lithuania             
der the shadow of this or that mulberry     ed representatives of Lithuanian         which it has occupied since               
tree, talking to his students about the     communities from all over the            1940.                                     
danger of communism. He also criti¬         world participated, adopted a            "The example of your heroic re¬           
cized the government for allowing           message to the Mujahideen on the         sistance against an invading su¬          
communists to work openly in an             occasion of their splendid victory       perpower, amazing love of free¬           
Islamic country. In 1971, Aryanpoor         to force the Soviet aggressors out       dom and unshakable faith of the           
led a large demonstration, for the first    of Afghanistan.                          Afghan people will always in¬             
time in Keshm district, to condemn          The message said that                    spire all those who fight for free¬       
communists for being the agents of          Afghans have shattered the myth          dom. Glory to you the heroic              
Moscow and warned the government            of the invincibility of the Soviet       Mujahideen of Afghanistan and             
and the people of the future dangers of     Army.                                    eternal glory to your comrades            
communists' activities.                     "We hope that the withdrawal             who fell in combat in the field of        
            He led another demonstration in of the Soviet army from                  battle", the message reads.               
    Keshm in 1973 to protest against presi-                                                                                    
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 6
    Che Guevara disappoints his
            grandfather
     Twenty years ago a child was bom in a village near the city of Kabul. His uncle, an important communist figure, called him Guevara, after the revolutionary Cuban fighter.
     Guevara was a strange name to the villagers. Names in Islamic communities usually have a meaning and in most cases the meanings refer to the allegiance of the person to the faith.
     Guevara had a meaning in literary Persian language which meant "favorable" and this meaning was used to cover the real meaning of the name.
     Little Guevara had a grand father who was a good Muslim. He had been a member of the Afghan national assembly and an outspoken against wrong-doing of the local government officials. Although he was not highly educated, he had learned that communists were against worshipping God. He had learned that from religious scholars in his town. Of course, he had met the refugees from Central Asia who had escaped the tyranny of communists and had brought with them the horror stones of burning mosques, humiliating religious books and killing innocent believers.He regretted that he could not become an Islamic scholar, Mawlawi, but wanted his sons to become religious scholars.
     The old man had 7 sons one of whom studied the faculty of Islamic law of the Kabul University. The old man was happy that at least one of his sons was going in the direction he wanted.
     He was disappointed when he learned that his son had joined the communist party and was defying religion.
     The old man had collected a large number of religious books for his future scholar sons. He had bought most of these books from the relatives of a religious scholar who had returned to the village from India after completion of his studies.
     The religious scholar, called Mawlawi, had brought several camelloads of books. The village scholar died soon. His family did not need the books. The old man brought the books for the future scholar of his family.
     The old man was disappointed by the performance of his sons. Not only they did not become scholars, they became communists and gave up practicing Islam.
     The old man was in permanent conflict with his sons. The family had two dogs. The Guevara's uncle who had
 become a member of the Central Committee of Parcham party (a faction of PDPA headed by Babrak Karmal) named one of the dogs Johnson and the other Nixon to show his displeasure to the biggest capitalist country in the world. Since he was a good agitator he persuaded the neighbors to call the two dogs by their new names.The dogs learned their new names and responded when were called by those names.
     One day the old man heard that the dogs were called by strange names. He found out that the names were given to the dogs by his Perchami son.
     He was angry. He did not approve that the name of two persons believing in God should be put on two dogs.
     To show his displeasure with his communist son he re-named the dogs. He called one of them Lenin and the other Stalin.
     The old man acted emotionally otherwise Islam forbids cursing the leader of other faiths. Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) has said that Muslim should not curse the false Gods of the non-Muslims so that they should not curse the true God of the them.
     These types of disputes had become a common thing in the family.
     One Of the old man's sons had married a girl from a religious family. The old man wanted his grandchildren from this son to fulfill his dreams by becoming Mawlawi. When the old man heard that his grand son was named Guevara he was surprised because it was not a common name.
     He tried to understand why such a name was given to the child but could not find the reason because Che Guevara was not as famous as Lenin and Stalin in Afghanistan. He changed the name from Guevara to Gul Agha, a common name among Afghans.
     The old man did not live long. One night he was saying his prayers close to the shelves of the books that he had collected. He told his wife that he was very worried about the construction of a bridge over Amu river (the river which forms the border between the Soviet Union and Afghanistan). He was afraid that the Soviets might use the bridge to invade Afghanistan. After saying these words he slept and in the morning he was found dead. About ten years later that bridge was used to invade Afghanistan.
     After the old man's death the family felt free. Gul Agha was changed back to Guevara.
    After the.Soviet invasion Guevara who was a student and lived with his father became a defender of the revolution. During days, he participated in marches and meetings in support of the regime and at nights he was a soldier to protect the factory in which his father was working. He was paid a good salary.
    When the Soviets started to withdraw from Afghanistan Guevara's family moved to Kabul because the factory was not a safe place anymore. He joined the puppet army and raised to the rank of 2nd lieutenant.
    Refugees in Pakistan listen to the obituary programs of the regime radio. It was announced in one of the programs that the Second Lieutenant Guevara had died in action. His relatives in exile had mixed feeling towards this incident They were happy that an enemy of Islam was killed but at the same time were sad why one of their relatives should die defending communism.
    The old man's dream never materialized. Neither his sons nor his grandsons became Mawlawi. His house was burned by the Soviets. Some of his books were sold by his sons and some others were destroyed in the war.
                                                   Editorial
                                                     From page (4)
 and planning. What is important is coordination of military activities all over the country.
     Despite formation of the interim government of the Mujahideen fighting in Jalalabad is conducted by the parties rather than by the interim government This will be the case in the rest of the country.
     The Jalalabad campaign showed the need for a balanced information policy. The present news agencies run by different Mujahideen parties lack such a policy. Most of the time the attack is publicized before it is launched and an exaggerated account of the war is given. This way of handling the news is harmful to the Mujahideen.
     There is no alternative to honest and objective reporting. The Mujahideen should say things when they have happened. They should Keep their intentions secrets. Achievements must be Publicized but difficulties should be also mentioned
 --■ —----------AFGHANews Vol5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 7
 Journalists contribute to liberation of Afghanistan
    Foreign journalists helped the liberation of Afghanistan by telling the world about the true situation in that country, but some of the reporters hurt the cause by painting a wrong picture of the resistance.
    The communist coup of 1978 did not become an important news item. It was considered a domestic change in a third world country. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December of 1979 made the issue a headline for the world press. Foreign journalists became involved to cover the war.
    The Afghan resistance was keen to put through its story and wanted to help foreign journalists to cover the war. A large number of journalists contented themselves with a few days of interviews of the Mujahideen and political workers of the resistance parties in Peshawar. Those who wanted to go inside the country to report the war were very few.
                                                        Finance
    There were different reasons for lack of interest in part of foreign journalists to go inside Afghanistan with the Mujahideen. The major problems were the difficulty of the journey and physical rides facing journalists. Time was also a major element in discouraging the journalists. Most of journalists could not afford one month or more to travel with the Mujahideen. The companies for whom they were working did not finance such uncertain and risky trips.
    Crossing the, border into Afghanistan was illegal and the journalists were smuggled into the country by the Mujahideen. While crossing the
 border from pakistan had its own difficulties, crossing the border from Iran was extremely difficult Iran itself was in involved in war with Iraq and its relations with western countries were not good. These two things had a negative effect on the activities of the Journalists in covering the war in the western parts of Afghanistan. In ten years of war only a few journalists could go to Herat province to cover the war.           *
    Lack of trained guides and translators was an additional problem for the journalists who did not know the language and were totally dependant on
 their host Mujahideen for protection, food etc.
     As the war continued, the world started to take the Mujahideen more seriously. People wanted to know about Afghanistan and its people. They wanted to know how the people of a small and poor country were resisting a ruthless Super-Power. To meet the demand for more news a large number of journalists wanted to cover the war.
     Despite increased interest the major press and electronic media companies never appointed permanent representatives to cover the war. Commercially it was not feasible to undertake such a project
                                                      Agencies
     The major news agencies had their permanent correspondents in Pakistan, but their first job was to cover the event in the host country. Covering the war in Afghanistan was a secondary aim of these people. More than that, these correspondents were not allowed to enter Afghanistan to cover the war.
     This was the reason why the Afghan war was not covered on a daily basis by the world media. With few exceptions the journalists who were able to do the job were freelance..
     Soviet Union tried to scare journalists from entering Afghanistan. A few journalists who were captured were branded as spies and tried on false charges. A Soviet Ambassador in Islamabad told journalists that if they went with the Mujahideen, Soviet forces would help the regime to kill them. Some journalists were killed by the Soviet forces. But those threats did not stop the committed journalists from travelling with the Mujahideen to cover the war.
                                                  Soviet Union
     The Soviets also tried to use the western media to tell their side of the story. Their way of treating foreign journalists varied in different stages of the war. Up to 1986 only those foreign journalists were allowed to travel Co Afghanistan who were considered friendly. Those who were allowed were restricted to official tours of a few cities and pre-arranged interviews with and briefings by the regime officials. Openness in the Soviet Union changed the situation. Soviets started to use western media to highlight regime's successes in military and political
 fields.
     The number of journalists who flew to Kabul via Moscow and Delhi reached to several hundred on different occasions.
     Foreign journalists served a just cause by honest reporting it. They told the world about the devastation of villages, indiscriminate bombardments, extensive use of mines and suffering of millions of civilians. Their reporting helped different governments to take a stand on the issue.
     The contact of professional journalists with the Afghan resistance helped the resistance to learn the art of reporting the war. The Afghan resistance have learned the importance of objective reporting and the use of camera in support of the cause.
     Most of the foreign journalists who covered the war were from western countries and Japan. Few journalists from third world countries bothered themselves to cover the war in Afghanistan. Cultural gap and language barrier were the cause of some bad reporting which harmed the resistance.
                                                              Opium
     Over-simplification of the political programs of resistance groups and unnecessary comparison of the Afghan resistance with other groups in the Islamic world created wrong impressions about the nature of the Afghan resistance.
     Some journalists overused the terms like fundamentalist, moderate and extremist in their reportings . In most cases they were labels to dramatize the story or fill the space. Some others, under the cover of objective reporting, mixed every story about Afghanistan with drug trafficking.
     I remember a New York Times correspondent who came from Afghanistan with a story about the cultivation of poppy in the liberated area. He told his story in such a way as if every piece of land in the country was cultivated with poppy and Afghans were eating opium instead of bread. 1 told him that what he had seen was a partial picture.
     Most of the Mujahideen are against poppy growing and if they can they will stop. When Mujahideen leaders were in an official visit in Washington, the New York Times published a big article about poppy growing in Afghanistan while reporting the Mujahideen's leaders talks with the US
-AFGHANews Vol 5, No 6, March 15,1989, page 8
From the Diary of Jehad
              By: Mansoor
machinery of the Soviet collective farms. Fighting was responsible for the
A short trip to Ghaziabad
 we came across few destroyed tanks.
     Mujahideen were talking about the interim government and military action against Jalalabad in die custom house of Tooikham on the Pak-Afghan border. We reached there after one hour’s drive from Peshawar.
   * Some months ago, the communist forces were forced to abandon the border posts and garrisons along die Jalalabad-Toatkham road.
     In Tooikham different buildings were occupied by different parties. As usual, a large number of people were crossing the border in both directions.
     We were offered green tea by die Mujahideen while waiting for a pick-up car to take us to Ghazi Abad farm near Jalalabad.
     In the custom house Umar Khan, a Mujahid from Khalis group was commenting about the government of Mujahideen. He was of the view that the leaders should liberate the country fust and then argue about presidency and prime ministership. He also was critical of the leaders for their statements about Jalalabad conquest in the near future.
   . He believed that communists had fortified the city and predicted a difficult war.
     We asked other Mujahideen about the military operation against Jalalabad. They shared Umar Khan's views.
     The Tooridiam-Jalalabad road was in bad condition. Potholes caused by chained vehicles and lack of maintenance in the past nine years have made the trip on the road slow and uncomfortable.
     There were many garrisons between Toorkham and Jalalabad which were abandoned and most of the buildings either were burned or partially damaged.
      Aside from the government insta-lations, the villages along the road were not affected by the war.
     Kheyalnoor, the Jami'at commander in. Mohmand Dara, told us that the area was in the full control of the regime in the past nine years. Most of the villagers were militiamen. The area was liberated after Soviet troops left Jalalabad and Kunar some months ago.
     On our way to Ghanzi Abad farm
 showing that there were little military activity in the area in the past
     The weather was nice and the scenery beautiful. It was like a dream to travel by car on the metal road for miles without being worried about enemy ambush or air raid.
     Along the road we crossed dozens of gates installed by the Mujahideen from different parlies.
     In Ghazi Abad farm different parties have set up their posts. Ghazi Abad is a mechanized farm build by the technical assistance of the Soviet Union.
     The main products of the farm woe citrus fruits and olives which were mainly exported to the Soviet Union.
     In the central part of the form there were several modem buildings.
     The Farm had a huge workshop but most of the machinery was broken. A large number of the tractors, trucks were rusty. It seemed that Soviets had sold to the Afghan government the old
     A Mujahideen delegation headed by the President of the interim government, Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, met with PLO chairman, Yaser Arafat, in Rawilpindi on March 8.
     The meeting took place when the Mujahideen delegation was invited to a luncheon hosted by Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in honor of the PLO chairman.
     While the Mujahideen have always supported the cause of Palestine. PLO leadership failed to condemn Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The PLO also have built close relations with the communist regime in Kabul.
     Yaser Arafat once was a popular figure among ordinary Afghans. His failure to take a clear stand in support of Afghan Mujahideen created doubt about him in the mind of Afghans.
     This meeting could prove useful if Mr. Arafat makes use of his influence among radical Arab States not to oppose acceptance of the interim govem-
 fiesh damage.
     When the Mujahideen were asked -about the damages they regretted it but lack of planning and untrained men should be blamed for these types of things.
     The orchards were in good condition. But before the hot season comes arrangement for the irrigation of the town should be made, otherwise, the trees will dry out
     In Jami'at headquarters in the form, a group of Mujahideen had sat in a circle and were reading Holy Quran. One day before, two rockets fired by the communist forces in Jalalabad which landed close to the building killed one Mujahid and injured a few others.The Mujahideen woe praying far the departed soul.
     After lunch, we started our return journey. We offered noon prayers in the Girdi Ghous mosque, a famous shrine half way between the form and border.
     Old buses in orange color were taking the people back and forth on the hjgfrway. Every thing seemed so peaceful and normal. Some children had volunteered to improve the condition of the road by filling the potholes with dirt Drivers gave than some money for the good job they were doing.
     At 3:00 Pm we were back at the border and had ended our one-day comfortable tour of Afghanistan.
 ment of the Mujahideen as a member of the Organization of Islamic Conference.
    Afghanistan seat in OIC has remained vacant since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
    Observers of the Afghan situation also think that Mr. Arafat can play a mediatory role between the Mujahideen and the Soviets when the need for such talks is felt by both sides.
    This meeting became possible through the good offices of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto.
                                            Avalanch kills French nurse
    A 26 year old French male nurse, on a mission inside Afghanistan for a humanitarian agency, Medicins du Monde, was killed by an avalanche on February 26, according to Afghan Media Resource Center (AMRC).
            Mujahideen leader meets PLO chairman