[ 1W THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                   VOL. IV, NO. 5, 1/3/1938.
                          DO THE RUSSiRNS SINCERELY WANT TO LEROE AFGHANISTAN?
 The air is tilled with optimism about Russia's willingness to withdraw its troops fro* Afghanistan. President Zia-ul-Haq and Prime Sinister June jo have congratulated Mujahideen on achieving victory. Iran extends full cooperation to Russia on the withdrawal of its troops. The U.S.welcomes Gorbachev's announcement about starting the withdrawal on May 15. India makes frenzied efforts to make up for its past mistake in supporting the puppet regime. The international mass media hail Gorbachev's decision to stop bloodshed iri Afghanistan. The diplomatic circles around the world are convinced that the Afghanistan issue is about to be solved.
 All above would have been "music to Mujahideen's ear" (to paraphrase Cordovez) had they seen any practical signs of Russian's sincerity. As the things stand at the moment, however, all the Russian ballyhoo seems a P.R. gimmick. Russians seem to be trying to offset their great diplomatic defeat at the UN General Assembly and, in the meantime, keep Afghanistan under their control in one way or another.
 The criteria by which to judge Russia's sincerity about the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan should be:         (1>  its
 activities inside Afghanistan, and (2) its behavior at the political level.
 Inside Afghanistan, the Russian troops continue their war against innocent Afghan people. According to a seminar at the SSI, Islamabad, Russian military operations in Afghanistan increased in the first half of February. The Russians are bringing in more arms and ammunition. They are even bringing in construction materials. According to a high level military officer who recently defected to the Mujahideen, the Russians have provided the puppet army with arms and ammunition sufficient for three years. They have also asked the puppet authorities to give them a list of their needs for five years.
 How can we understand this situation? Do the Russians want to bring more arms and leave them for the future Mujahideen Government after their departure? Certainly not. Are they under the illusion that their puppets could last for three or five years without the support of the Red Army? Hopefully not. The Russians' aim in providing so much arms and ammunitions might be to boost the morale of their agents so that they could stay in power for a month or two in order to give the Russians the opportunity to implement their future plots.
 At the political level, the criterion of’Russia's sincerity is their recognition of the Mujahideen and their readiness to talk to them. If the Russians are sincere about withdrawing their troops fro* Afghanistan, they must be concerned with the safety of their troops
PFSKRH HEUS UOL.IU, NO. 5, l/3/IM®, PAGE 2
 while withdrawing. The Russians should also be concerned about their future relationship with the Afghan people. Both of these should be imperatives for the Russians to recognise the realities in Afghanistan and try to talk to the Mujahideen directly. So far, however, they have refused to do so.
 Another sign of the Russians' insincerity at the political level is their “delinking" of the Geneva agreement from the formation of an interim government. In January, President Zia made it clear that Pakistan would not sign the Geneva Agreement with the Kabul puppet regime. How, if the Russians sincerely wanted to leave Afghanistan, they should have tried to come to some kind of understanding with Pakistan on the interim government issue. Vorontsov's trip to Islamabad would have provided an opportunity for that. But before Vorontsov began his trip, Gorbachev made his announcement about starting the withdrawal of the troops on May 15, “provided that the Geneva Agreement is signed before March 15. * Vorontsov also insisted upon the signing' of the Geneva Agreement at the end of his trip to Islamabad, and on several other occasions.
 If the Russians are not sincere in their claims to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, what game would they play to fool the world and change the situation in their favor? At least four scenarios could be envisaged:
 1. To raise world expectations to the extent that no one will doubt that the Russians are determined to leave Afghanistan. The process so far has been: (1) Sheverdnadze's setting a date for the completion of Russian troop withdrawal (end of 1988); (2) Pravda's setting a date for starting the withdrawal (May 1,1988); (3) Gorbachev himself coming forth and setting a date for beginning of the withdrawal (May 15) and a term for its completion (ten months), hie even went to the extent to agree that the withdrawal be “front-loaded”; (4) Spreading rumors that the Russians are making preparation for the emergency evacuation of their puppets (what would be the need for "emergency evacuation" if the Russians have ten months to leave?); (5) Spreading rumors that the Russian families are getting ready to leave Afghanistan.
 In the future, we might see: (1) some Russian families really leaving Afghanistan; (2) a decrease in Russian troop operations in Afghanistan (especially after the SSI report); (3) Russian troops moving from the field to their main centers, and (4) even some Russian troops actually withdrawing.
 The purpose of all the above will be to prove beyond any doubt that the Russian troops are leaving Afghanistan. Then comes Geneva and Pakistan’s refusal to sign the agreement with the Kabul puppet regime, Hov, who should be blamed? Of course, it would be very difficult to counter the propaganda that Russia was ready to stop the bloodshed    in Afghanistan, but others did      not   cooperate.
 Gorbachev has already prepared the grounds for this propaganda. In his February 8 speech, he said, "...That, of course, does not mean that no one could now obstruct the settlement, or push the talks backwards. But   we would not like to     think that some    states or
 political figures might want to be held accountable by the Afghan nation and other nations for scuttling a settlement."
 2. But if the   Pakistan  Government is   forced to sign   the Geneva
 Agreement with  the Kabul regime, then    what might happen? In that
 case, the Russians would certainly start withdrawing their troops, and they might even complete it.______________________________________
  I
nnswvH HEiss wl.iv, ho.5., My/ (908 PBGE3
 But the puppet regime would not last for more than a couple of months without the support of the Red Army, no matter how much arms and ammunitions it might have. At least three reasons can be mentioned for the rapid disintegration of the puppet regime: (1) The lack of a reliable military force. The puppet government has failed to raise the number of conscripts over 30,000. Since most of the conscripts are taken into military service by force, they run away as soon as they can. The “pro-government" militia troops are forced to cooperate with the Russians by the circumstances. Many of them have some kind of relation with the Mujahideen as well. {£) The morale of the PDPA members and those who have been coopted is low. The number of defections has increased manifold since the Russians have shown readiness to withdraw from Afghanistan. <3) Beep divisions and disunity within PDPA.
 To insure the survival of their puppets, the Russians might leave behind a large number of their troops in the guise of "advisors" or local militias. Certainly these troops cannot do much against the Mujahideen. But their presence will boost the morale of the puppets. The Russians might hope that the Mujahideens' activities will decrease and. finally die out by loosing the support of Pakistan and the international community because of the Geneva Agreement.
 3. After the Geneva Agreement, if the Russians are not able to keep their troops in Afghanistan in disguise, or if the troops are not able to crush the Mujahideen, then the Russians might play the third scenario. In this case, when the Kabul puppet Regime is on the verge of going down, the Russians might bring back their troops, and this time “at the invitation of the recognized Government of Afghanistan" (this is what the Geneva Agreement amounts to).
 Mujahideen activities will certainly continue. But the Russians might think that the confusion of their troop withdrawal will bring disarray to the Mujahideen ranks. Moreover, with the cessation of the Pakistani and international support, the Mujahideen will not be able- to mount successful operations.
 4. The fourth scenario is the Russians going for the "partition option." Vith or without a Geneva agreement, the Russians might try through a "coup d'etat " to bring to power in Kabul a government which they think can serve their interests. Or they might try to create confusion in the country. In either case, they might withdraw their troops from the south but claim that since they do not feel secure about their southern borders, they have to use Northern Afghanistan as a "security belt."
                                 * # * * *
 ?e hope we are wrong about Russia's real intentions. If it tries to play any of the above scenarios, however, it will mean that the suffering of the Afghan people will continue. It will also mean that Russia's problems in Afghanistan and their consequences on the domestic scene of Russia and at the international level will continue as well. The Russians must not forget that Mujahideen started their struggle against the Red Army with almost empty hands. Their main weapon was, and still is, their strong faith ir. God. Only after the Mujahideen proved their valor, did others take serious interest in their cause.
 Also the Russians must not forget that they cannot fool all the people all the times. Their propaganda and political maneuvers might
RFRHRH HEWS UOL. IV HO. 5, T/3' ”68 PR6E ^
 be effective for- a while. Soon the people will see through their plots. Then they will turn against Russians more vehemently. If the international community has made Afghanistan a litmus test of Gorbachev's "Glasnost," he must try Ms best not to fail in the test.
 We believe that sooner or later Russia will realize that it cannot control Afghanistan and it cannot subjugate its people. Despite all their claims, however, Russias1 actions show that they have not realized this point yet. They seem to still hope that they can retain their influence in Afghanistan and deny the Afghan people their right of self-determination. The sooner they sincerely seek, to withdraw from Afghanistan and stop their interference there, the better it will be for the Afghan people, for the Russian people, and for the cause or freedom, peace, and justice in the world.
                                  FORMULA FOB fi TRANSITIONAL GOUEP.NMENT IN AFGHANISTAN
 The following text was finalised in the late hours of the night of February 22nd by the High Council of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAH). It sets out a structure for a transitional government in Afghanistan. This agreement has been forwarded to the government of Pakistan.
 how that the Soviets have made a commitment to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, ail parties concerned will act with a full sense of their responsibilities and in accordance with the supreme aspirations and in the interests of the Afghan people who have heroically carried on their Jehad in defense of their faith, freedom, independence, and sovereignty. Accordingly, the leaders of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen have unanimously decided to accept a settlement along the following lines:
 There will be a’ transitional government which will ensure a ceasefire and the peaceful transition to law and order, to permit the safe and complete withdrawal of the Soviet forces: the return of the refugees with honour and ensure general elections, consistent with Islamic law, within six months after the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
 The structure of the stete mV wctu&e
 A Shoora-e-Ali (Grand Council) which will be the supreme body of the state, comprising' the leaders of the seven party alliance. This body will provide joint leadership during the interim period.
 A broad-based transitional government representing all sections of the Afghan nation. This government is proposed to replace the present regime in Kabul before the signing of the Geneva accords which it will sign under the auspices of the United Nations Organization.
 The government will consist of a cabinet of 28 ministers under a Raees-i-0ukumat (head of government) who will also be the Raees-i-Daulat (head of state). The cabinet will consist of fourteen Mujahideen, seven refugees -and seven Muslims presently living in Kabul.
flFGKKH HEMS UOL.tV, HO. 5, I 0/1988, PfiCt 5
There will be a Mushawrati Shoora (Consultative Council) comprising 75 members drawn two from each province (56) and one third (19) from the Ulema, intellectuals and technocrats. This will frame interim laws to run the country till the formation of the new constitution by an elected Shoora (Constituent Assembly). Provincial councils will be set up by mutual consultations to run the administrations in the provinces in the interim period.
   1
A fully autonomous commission will be set up to draw up procedures and rules for holding elections to the Shoora (Constituent Assembly), immediately after the withdrawal of the Soviet forces. The name of the future Afghanistan will be "BauIat-i-Islaai Afghanistan" (Islamic State of Afghanistan wherein the Quran and Sunnah will be supreme. It will have an elected Shoora (assembly) and elected head.
IUAM has also decided to set up a Reconstruction Commission immediately and call upon all qualified Afghans to apply for appointments to this body which will start functioning at the Alliance headquarters.
The transitional government will sigh the Geneva a.cconXs- and undertake full responsibility for their implementation including the safe return of the Soviet forces when the accords become acceptable to the transitional government. The transitional government will pursue an  independent and non-aligned foreign policy and   will have
friendly   relations with all countries, particularly        with  its
neighbors, provided that there is no interference in its internal affairs.
For the     purpose of reconstruction the I DAM requests      all  the
countries  of the world, and in particular the Soviet       Union,  to
participate generously in reconstruction of the infrastructure and economy of Afghanistan.
NEWS
                                        NEWS FROM THE BBTTLEFiELBS LOGAR PRGVfHCE
A report from Logar province mentions the following story:
RFGHHH NEUS UGl.lU, HO. 5,, 1/3/1068, PRQE 6
                               • \ •
 On 5 February 1988, a number of eneay forces including militia vent to Dair village of Charkh sub-district, disguised as Mujahideen by wearing beards and possesing Chinese Klashinkcrve. They set an ambush against some groups of Mujahideen bound for the North passing through the area. Being in Mujahideen disguise, the forces stopped and checked two armed Mujahids who were passing by the ambush site. They were unaware of the eneay assuming they were Mujahideen groups having a check-post on the way. Later the two Mujahideen were disarmed and one was killed and the other seriously wounded bry the ambushing forces.
 There were also soae armoured vehicles and tanks in a hidden position behind the forces,to provide fire cover and launch surprise attacks on Mujahideen convoys. After two days, the news of the enemy ambush reached Mujahideen by an old woman of the area. Hearing this, Mujahideen groups attacked the enemy position. The eneay tanks started firing heavily on the Mujahideen which resulted in burning a passenger bus crossing the area which 22 civilians were killed leaving two survivors.
 Nine ailitia were killed during the attack.
 Three Mujahideen were killed and some houses were destroyed as a result of a subsequent retaliatory bombardment by enemy jets.
 According to the report, this was the third incident in which passenger buses were attacked and burned by the enemy.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
 18/2/1988: In a series of attacks in Daulat Abad and Braman areas located in the vicinity of Herat city. Mujahideen captured 8 DRA posts. The arms seized from the posts were: 2 Gerinov Machine guns, one mortar, 30 AK-47S , ? Communication sets and a T-62 Russian tank in addition to tens of boxes of heavy and light weapons1 ammunition.
 In this operation 27 soldiers and militia were killed and 15 others taken prisoner.
 One Mujahid was killed and 6 others injured during the operation.
                                           KUNAR PROVINCE
 3/2/88: About 83 persons (including some from the tribal areas who had recently turned militia) from the area were taken prisoner by the Asmar Mujahideen during an ambush. More than 60 sets of Russian radios and 130 sleeping bags were seized from the captured people most of whom were DRA spies.
 Two militia were killed and 6 others wounded when they resisted the Mujahideen.
                                           KABUL PROVINCE
 2/2/1988: In  a well-planned  operation on  Hahipar  power supply
 station, 3 protective posts around the station and an armoured vehicle were destroyed in 3 hours of fighting in which Mujahideen used 82m» canon.
fifGHHH HEUS VBL.I'J, Hfl. 5., J/3/1«389, PR3E 7
 The station was partially destroyed by canon shelling which resulted in a power cut-off in Kabul for several days. Ten DRA soldiers patrolling the station were also killed arid vour.ded during the firing.
                               REITERATION OF ST3NG ON COfillTION GOUERNMENT
                                  Jamiat islomi Afghanistan issued the following statement on February 25. >988.
 There are indications that the puppet regime in Kabul and its masters are tip to some new plots to create confusion and to defame the leaders of Jehad.
 Recently rumors have been spreading that Commander Ahmad Shah Hasood is in Kabul negotiating with, the puppet authorities. This might be a dream of the Russians and their agents, but it will never come true.
 Jamiat Island Afghanistan categorically rejects this rumor as baseless and considers the KGB and KHAD propaganda and disinformation wings responsible for originating it.
 ¥e take this opportunity to once again reiterate out total rejection of a coalition government with the puppet PDPA. Our rejection is based on the following grounds:
 1. The Question of legitimacy: The puppet regime in Kabul is totally illegitimate. It has been installed by the Red Army. It does not have any backing among the people whatsoever.
 Through the coalition government, the Russians want to earn for their puppets the legitimacy that they could not earn by eight years of brutal fighting. Mujahideen, however, are too vise and careful to fall into the trap.
 2. Our principles: The Russian agents in Afghanistan are considered as enemies of Islam and cririnals against the Afghan people. On the basis of the principle for winch the Mujahideen wage their holy Jehad, it is not possible to fora a coalition government with such people.
 3. Lessons from history \ History, especially that of Eastern Europe teaches us that wherever Russians have been able to get a foot-hold in a government through the coalition of their agents with the majority' parties, they have tried to remove the majority by KGB plots and coups. They were able to bring several countries into their orbit by tills means.
 There is no reason to believe that they will not play the same game in Afghanistan.
 <». Practical consideration: It is not very difficult to imagine how a coalition government, consisting of opposing poles, will function. There will be no understanding, no harmony and no cooperation. There will be constant strife within the government which will lead to instability and final collapse.
                   Thus, no Mujahid, be it from the leadership or the rank and file, will be ready to associate with the puppet party in whatsoever way.
firawi HEUS UOL.IV, HO. 5:, 5 .73/1V80, PRBE 8
 All the rmiors fiend allegations to the contrary" are totally false and baseless.
                   INTERUlEtU ILUiH CQMMRNDER RLRUI000IN
 Pol loving is an interview with Alawoodin who is the Deputy of Ismael Khan of Herat province. Alawoodin has recently paid a visit to Pakistan, Peshawar. Excerpts:
 & Your background, please ?
 A. I an Alawoodin who was in Herat before the war started. Isnael Khan and I were both military officers in the Division i? based in Herat. Ismael Khan was an officer in the .Army Defence and I was in the Signal Company. Se knew each other from the time we were in the military school and Military College in Kabul.
 *?hen Taraki, the first Russian puppet, took power in 19?S, the people of Herat revolted against that puppet Communist Regime in March of 19?9. We supported them, we joined the people and the whole Division fell in the hand of the masses for three days.
 Hundreds of soldiers along with their weapons joined the people and that was an historic event, which I am sure, history will keep it in its memory for centuries.
 The tanks .and gunships appeared and thousands of the people were martyred or wounded and the rest were scattered. At that time, everything was new. ¥e were all full of faithful emotions; the people hated the puppets and the piq?pets hated the people. Later, with about 15 to 20 people, vs started to mobilize people into a better organizational direction. It was in 1981 that the Jamiat leadership appointed Ismael Khan as the Amir (head) and me as the Deputy of the Herat Mujahideen.
 Q. Who is Herat important for the Russians?
 A. (a) Torgundi supply route, one of the most important Russian supply lines in Afghanistan, runs through Herat supplying at least 6 provinces in the South-Western part of Afghanistan. (b> It is neighboring Soviet Russia and Iran, (c) It does not take more than twc. hours for the Soviet tanks to riach Mashhad (Iran city) and may not take more than two days to reach Tehran from Herat. <d) Shindand Airbase (one of the strongest military airbases in Afghanistan) is located on ttie Herat frontier border which is not meant just for Herat but it easily threatens the Gulf states. (e> Herat has a relatively good organization ar.d a united front under Ismael Khan which has always been a threat to the invading forces, (f) Baluchistan is a strategically important target of the Soviets which could be achieved if (God forbids) Herat is pacified.
 d What about Soviet tactics?
 A. It is more or less the same as in other parts of Afghanistan. In Herat, they mostly use longer range artillery and air bombardments. Herat is a flat land.
 Q. What about Russian proposals for a withdraws I?
 A. It is difficult to trust them. But we watch it carefully.
flFGHRH HEUS           HO.  3,  T 73/1908,  PfiGE 9
 & Some soy there will be a civil war after the Soviet withdrawal?
 A. I can not talk about all over the country, but I aa very certain that in the South-Western front which contains about 9 provinces, there will be no place for civil war. After all we have worked for ten years to mobilize the people.
                           IN COMMEMORRTfON Of THE THIRD OF HOOT (FEBRUBRV 21)
 The 3rd of Hoot (February 21 > is a historical day in the course of the just Jehad of the Afghan Muslim people. It is the day when a nation's love for freedom manifested itself. It is the day when the people of Kabul poured into the streets and astonished the whole world. It is the day when Russians1 miscalculations and false dreams that no one would move against their wishes in Afghanistan proved totally wrong.
 The uprising of the 3rd of Hoot against the Russian invaders and their puppet regime in the heart of Afghanistan resembled a great explosion which trembled the enemy and demonstrated to the world that the Afghan Muslim people welcome martyrdom but abhor servitude.
 Eight years ago, the residents of Kabul used an interesting tactic against the foreign invaders, a tactic which will be memorable in the history of the heroic struggles of the Afghan Mujahid nation. Three months after the mad invasion or the Red Army on Afghanistan, the people of Kabul      started climbing to the roof-tops  of their
 houses and shouting “Allahu Akbar® (God is the Greatest) at night, while they engaged in their routines during the day. By this act, they wanted to awaken the sleepy, to give consciousness to the ignorant, and to warn the enemy. The cries of "Allafcu Akbar" reached their culmination at the night before Hoot 3,1358 (February 21, 198b). The next day, the residents of Kabul, young and old, man and woman poured into the streets all over the city to condemn the presence of foreign troops in their sacred land.
 Except for a small number of the demonstrators who were armed with sticks and stones, the rest were all     empty handed. How  did the
 Russians, who claim to be the champions of freedom and humanism, react to this demonstration of love for freedom and human rights?
 The Russians and their puppets poured bullets and bombs on the innocent defenseless people from helicopters and by their troops on the ground. A large      number of people were martyred and a  large
 number were captured   and sent to jail. Thus, the streets of Kabul
 were once again painted red with the blood of innocent Afghan Muslims.
 Each and every Afghan Muslim cherishes the memory of the Kabul residents’ heroism. They continue their struggle for achieving the ideals of the martyrs of the third of Hoot, namely "Freedom and an Islamic Government11. Each year, on February £1, the sacrifices of the martyrs of the third of Hoot are celebrated and the barbarism of the Russians and their agents is condemned.
                                         PROF. MRJROH MURDERED
 Prof. Bahauddin Majroh, a renowned Afghan scholar and a long-time active supporter of Jihad in Afghanistan, was murdered on the door step of Ids house in Peshawar on February 11,1988. The barbaric
ftFOHRH HEUS V0L.IV, HO. 5,    »  /371968, PAGE 10'
   murderer ran away, and the police have found no clues to solve the case yet. According' to prof. Majroh's family iaenbers, he did not have arty personal enemies. Then who committed the senseless and brutal crime?
; In our view, most probably it was KGB and KHAD agents who committed the barbaric act. The Russians might have had several reasons for committing the crime:
   1) To eliminate one of their active and knowledgeable opponents.
   2) To terrorize intellectual Afghans who participate in Jehad in Pakistan.
   3> To terrorize the intellectual Afghans who want to come to Pakistan in order to help their people. In this connection we should remember the invitation by IUAK to the Afghans living abroad to come to Pakistan and participate in planning the future reconstruction of their country.
      To create disarray .and divisions among the members of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen by blaming the murder on some of them.
j 5> To defame the Mujahideen and their organizations by blaming the j murder on some of them.
i
   ¥e strongly condemn the brutal and barbaric murder of prof. Majroh.
   ¥e warn the Russians that tlie Afghan people have seen through their plots and will not be fooled. The more the Russians commit such senseless crimes the more they will earn the disgust of the Afghan people!
                                            NO SMOKING IN PfiNJSWR
   The council of the the commanders of Panjshir was convened in the middle of December. In this meeting military and non-military matters facing the people were discussed and decisions were made.
   line of the items on the agenda was the banning of cigarettes and use of snuff in the valley. In the past the Mujahideen and the people were encouraged tc quit smoking and using snuff. The new decision makes the use of these items against the law. According to this law,
I not only smoking cigarette and using' snuff, but buying and selling them and growing tobacco are also illegal and punishable by law.
   This decision was taken in accordance with the tenants of Islam which forbid using things that make people unhealthy. Economic considerations also had an important role in the decision to ban smoking.
I
i
   In other bases controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North, a campaign against smoking has started, arid the people are quitting smoking cigarettes and using' snuff.
   The decision of banning smoking is bad news for cigarette producing companies but very good news for a nation which is fighting for its freedom and needs to quit all bad habits which do not suite its character.                                                               1
IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHANnEWS
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOL. IV, N0.6,15/3/1988.
                       Geneva treaty fails to bring peace
The latest round of Indirect talks in Geneva between the Pakistani government and the puppet regime started on March 2 and is still continuing. It is lasting longer than other rounds of the Geneva talks. The Pakistan government has so far resisted the pressures to sign the accord without an agreement on the question of an interim government. It is not certain, however, how long it can do so successfully. The chances are that vill-nilly it will be forced to sign the agreements reached so far.
Calling the Geneva talks ‘peace talks1 would be a misnomer. Anyone thinking that the agreement between the Pakistan government and the puppet regime will bring peace and security in Afghanistan has to be ignorant of the realities of the situation inside the country.
The Afghan people did not start their struggle after the Russian invasion. They had started it, rather, against the Russian puppet regimes of Taraki and Amin. The reason why the Russians decided to send the Red Army to Afghanistan was that the puppets had failed to subdue the Afghan people's armed resistance against their atheist regimes.
The Russians want to take Afghanistan back to the period before December, 1973- They hope that the new masks put on by the puppet party, renouncing Communism and socialism, dropping the word “Democratic* from the name of the government, calling Afghanistan an Islamic country, the head-puppet giving a religious sermon, etc., will fool the people. They also hope that the Afghan people have tired of fighting after such a long time. Thus they hope the people will start cooperating with the puppet regime once they see the Russian troops have withdrawn
If the above is what Russians really think, it means that they have not learned any lessons from their ten year tragic experience in Afghanistan. Ho matter what kind of mask the Russian puppets in Kabul put on, there will be the clear mark of "MADE IN RUSSIA" on it. As for war-weariness, there is no sign of it among the Afghan Mujahideen whatsoever. The Afghan Muslim people are nourished from a spiritual source which is inexhaustible. The resistance of Muslim caucuses against the young and energetic Russian imperialism lasted for about 100 years. The Muslim Moro people have been continuing their struggle against Spanish, American and Philip?ne colonialism for about . four centuries. The Palestinian Muslims have resumed their struggle against the Zionist occupying force after 40 years.
How foolish it would be to think that the heroic Afghan Muslims are tired of fighting the enemies of Islam in ten yearsf
- MMttWit           tnt. IU,   w, ft,  J5/3/iqB8,   Mlf.  2
Mujahideen have- rejected tfte Geneva pro limits' talks from the very beginning because the real parties to the Afghanistan war are not present in the talks. All the members of the I UAH are unanimous in this view, and so are the members of the Alliance Council of the Mujahideen organizations based in Iran.
¥e appreciate the hospitality and assistance extended by the Pakistani Muslim people and the Pakistan government in the past 10 years. ¥e do not feel ourselves bound by the decisions made by Pakistan if our demand for freedom is not met.We are determined to continue our struggle until we reach the aims of our holy Jehad: <i> to liberate Afghanistan from Russian domination, arid (2) to gain the right of self-determination for our Muslim people.
Six years ago the reistance proclaimed that the Geneva peace talks were doomed to fail. How that we have reached the end of the Geneva talks, it seems that our forecast is about to come true.
                             Jami'at leader visits Iran
Irani leaders assured Prof. Rabbani of their support until the people of Afghanistan achieve their freedom.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leader of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan, paid an official visit to Iran from February' 26 to Harch 9,1988. The invitation was extended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Three Jamiat members accompanied Prof. Rabbani in the trip. They were Dr. Hajibullah Lafraie, head of the Political Committee, Hr.Saifur Rahman Saief, head of the Intelligence Committee,           and Mr. Bahauddir. Ziaie, J. I. A
Representative in Tehran.
During the trip, Prof. Rabbani met with Ayatullah Muntazeri, Hujatul Islam Khamenaie, the President, Hr. Mcayeeri, Deputy Prime Minister, Hr. Walayati, Sinister of Foreign Affairs, and some other officials and religious leaders. In their talks, the Iranian authorities reiterated their support of Mujahideen and their rejection of the Geneva talks.
  The Iranian leaders also emphasised the importance of unity of all Mujahideen -and all the Afghan Muslim people regardless of their religious denomination, or their ethnic and regional associations.
Prof. Rabbani met with the leaders of the Mujahideen organizations based in Iran. He also spoke to several gatherings of the Afghan refugees in Tehran, Mash‘had and Turbat-e-Jam.
In Turbat, Prof. Rabbani visited martyred Safiullah Afzali's tomb and offered Fateha to his family. Safiullah was a well-known commander of Jami'at in Herat who was killed by KHAD agents some months age.
                              Russians help war of cities
During Prof. Rabbani's trip to Iran, Tehran and several other Iranian cities came under missile attack of Iraqi. The missiles used were made in Russia. 3y providing missiles to Iraq Russians wanted to put pressure on Iran to change, its- position in regard to the Afghanistan issue in general and the Geneva indirect peace talks in particular. The missile attack began at the eve of the latest round of the Geneva talks.
RFSMIHII IKU5 UflL.Hi, tin, «, 13/3|'V?5B, PBr* 3
Tehran remained calm and ( continued its normal life during the missile attacks. A considerable number of people attended Friday prayer despite danger of missile attacks.
After the Friday prayer, many of those who had attended took part in a procession to demonstrate against the Russian role in Iraqi missile attacks. Earlier, the Ministry of the Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic had summoned the Russian Ambassador and had launched a strong protest.
On Sunday March 6, there was another huge demonstration against Russia in Tehran and Asfahan. In spite of the police efforts to keep the demonstrators away, some demonstrators managed to enter the Russian Embassy in Tehran and breake some doors and windows.
Prof. Rabbani, who eye-witnessed the shower of the Russian missiles on Tehran, was shocked by the suffering of innocent civilians -and wished an early end to the war.
News
from the battlefields
Mazar Province
3/2/1988: A Russian officer was captured during an ambush set by the Mujahideen on Mazar highway few miles away from the provincial center.
As soon as the officer was taken prisoner, the DRA authorities appealed to the Mujahideen to exchange the officer for 15 Mujahideen they had already taken prisoner. After an advice from the Mujahideen central command the exchange deal was accepted and 15 Mujahideen were set free by the DRA forces.
21/2/1988: In a pre-planned attack in which ground to ground rockets were used, Mujahideen hit a warehouse in the port of Hairatan. The warehouse caught fire as a result of shelling and burned the accumulated 1270 TV sets, 1200 refrigerators in addition to a large amount of military clothes including more than 500 army boots. The fire burned for three successive days.
According to a puppet government estimate, the total value of the lost materials was more than 60 million Afghanis.
                                  RFimmi mn m.iu, mi, ft, ivanwe, pnrm k
    22/2/1988: In a surprise attack on a DRA stronghold in Dehsawar, Mujahideen captured the post and took prisoner 34 soldiers out of whom 8 militiamen were killed when they resisted and refused to surrender.
    The arms seized from the post included: 2 mortars* 2 DSchk, 42 different types of machine guns and AK-4?s and 16 boxes of hand grenades.
    Kabul Province
    25/2/1988: Mujahideen of the Jegdalik area led by commander Mohammad Anwar, conducted an attack with heavy weapons on a Russian post in Pasina Tahna area near Saroobi district. Two tanks and a military vehicle were destroyed and 12 Russian soldiers were killed or wounded.
    5/2/1988: In an operation against the enemy District headquarters in Hesarak, about 30 militias including some local KHAD members were killed and an arms depot was burned as a result of BM-i and BM-12 shelling carried out by the Mujahideen.
    Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
    Kandahar Province
    27/2/1988: Fifteen enemy soldiers were killed and 3 APCs were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked a DRA military column passing along the Herat-Kandahar highway. The military vehicles which were loaded with arms were hit by Mujahideen rockets and burned.
    Three Mujahideen were killed and 2 others were injured.
    On the same day a DRA army dump was destroyed and 10 soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen raided an enemy post in Puli Safid near Arghandab district.
    Jowzjan Province
    4/2/1988: In a series of offensives on five DRA posts in Aqcha district, Mujahideen were able, after 4 days of fighting, to capture the posts and seize 36 light weapons. More than 30 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded and 16 others were taken prisoner during the operations.
    On the Mujahideen side, one was killed and 11 were injured.
    Herat Province
    6/2/1988:   Three APCs  and  one  truck  were   destroyed when the
    Mujahideen attacked an enemy military column on the Herat-Islamqala highway. Twenty enemy soldiers were killed or wounded, and 6 others were captured.
    One Russian jeep, 6 AK-4?s and several motorcycles were also seized during the operation.
    Mujahideen casualties have not been reported.
RFQHfill H6US UOt.lU, NO, 6,      15/3/1990,  PRUfc  5
Samangan Province
5/2/1986: Groups of Mujahideen clashed with enemy forces near the provincial capital. In three hours of fighting 15 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 10 AK-4?s including 2 machineguns were captured.
The Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation.
    Naqibullah speaks about Kandahar situation
Mujahideen general commander of Kandahar, Mullah Naqeeb, recently paid a visit to Peshawar and gave us the following account about the situation in the area. Excerpts:
Ten us something shout summer offensive of 1987.
"....the Russians have four- main bases in Kandahar namely Kandahar Airport, Dashti Sheri, Seelow and their residential areas. The summer offensive of 198? was the largest offensive the Soviets launched since they invaded Afghanistan. This offensive aimed at destroying Mujahid strongholds in the Arghandab area. Hundreds of tanks and APCs were involved. Bombardment, long range artillery and infantry forces were used for 34 days. I call it a big seige. We divided the Mujahideen into small groups. The Russians this time expanded their operational zones at least three times wider than before. All the Mujahideen of the area fought to break the seige together. Kandahar is flat. Mujahideen fought in the gardens and behind the ruined walls. Our underground tunnels and bunkers helped us to take shelter wherever the bombardment was heavier. This time the bombardment was not effective because we had some anti-aircraft weapons in the area. The Russians bombarded our areas from a height of 100 feet.
The new ground-to-ground rockets that the Soviets used were very terrifying. They were long. Our artillery was not effective due to its shorter range. Our food situation was very bad. We were nearly starving. We had only onions and bread. Due to the heavy bombardment, the civilian could not send us food.
We lost many Mujahideen and a lot of civilian in the villages. Thank God they could not capture our strongholds. men with RPG~?s were very effective. Tanks could not come closer. Many enemy tanks were destroyed and burnt. It is very difficult when you do not have enough ammunition. Hie Mujahideen fought well. Enemy casualties became higher as the fighting reached the point of hand to hand fight. Here morale works and the morale of Mujahideen is very good."
ft. Whst do you need?
A. Everything. Ho work, no agriculture, no other internal sources, arid outside sources are so limited.... so we have to get almost everything from the outside. I can say humanitarian help in our area has been little. Once or twice in eight years. We have received very little money from humanitarian organizations but later I was told that they have stopped because we did not send a good report. They do not know how many educated people I have around me. Almost none.
WQHRH H6U5 UCi. !U, tffi. h, 15/3/1988, PRSE 6
    My Mujahideen have no good clothes. If you come to see a Kujahid in Kandahar he looks like a beggar but actually he is a fighter, fighting against a super power.
    The life of the civilian is also like ours, Ye need lot of help to teed them too. How can we fight without civilians and their support? They sacrificed a lot.
    U. Wftst about military needs?
    A. We need a lot of ammunition, effective longer range artillery and sufficient anti-aircraft weapons.
    Commander Waqibullah’s biograghy:
                                 Commander Mullah Naqeeb,32, was bom in Arghandab district in a small village called Changbulba. His father was a farmer. He went to i primary' school and studied up to the 6th grade in his own village.
    He pursued religious studies or Islamiat with his elder brother, i Hayatullah. This is why he is called mullah.
                                                                                                         i
    He was still busy in his religious studies when he was conscripted for military' service in 197?. He was posted at Bala Hesar (Kabul fort) at Kabul.
 i
 j
 i
 i
 I
 >
 i
 :
 J
 r
 I
 I
 j
 I
 |
 :
 !
    ¥hen Taraki was killed and the Russians took power. Mullah Naqeeb i joined those Muslim officers who revolted against Taraki regime in } 1979. "More than two hundred Afghan soldiers were killed and many i Communists were wounded. Two officers who helped us to revolt were { also killed. That day Bala Hesar wais full of blood. Every soldier wanted to fight against the communist regime. The air was filled j with gun powder and the cry of Takbeer {Allah-u-Akhar}. Two leading j commanders namely Gul Ahmad and Khalid were martyred. That was a i great loss", said Mullah Naqeeb.
    Mullah Naqeeb went from Kabul to Arghandab, his birth place. He j became a member of Jamiat in 1981 and was appointed by Prof. Rabbani J as a major commander of Mujahideen in the Arghandab area in 1982.
    Mullah Naqeeb is married and has two children. He has been injured { three times during operations in the past ? years.
                           Alliance chooses new ieacier
   The Islamic unity of Afghan Mujahideen has chosen a new leader for a J period of three months. The previous chairman resigned on health ; grounds.
                                                                                            I
   Gulbudding Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb Islaai, was chosen as tire current chairman of the Alliance after Younus Khalis, the former chairman, resinged on health grounds.
Khalis was supposed to lead the Alliance for one-and-half years but resinged after five months.
The Alliance decided to go back to the old rotational system in which leader of each party will hold the office for a period of three months.
  t
  '
  1
  i
 I
   i