IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHAN*^
         A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
               VOL. Ill, NO. 5, 1/3/1987.
                                           GENEVA PROXIMITY TALKS
 Proximity talks on Afghanistan, between the government of Pakistan and the puppet regime will start in Geneva on Feb. 26. This is the Slh round of such talks which has continued since 1982 under the auspices of the United Nations                    **
 The 8th round is of some special importance Soviet officials,privately and publicly have tried to give the impression that they want to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan The softness of Soviet tone has been interpreted by some Observe to possible change in policy.
                                                             4
 To pave the road for their later-political moves they ordered their puppets to announce a ceasefire and reconciliation program both of which failed to get the approval of the resistance both inside and outside Afghanistan.
 The sharp edge of pre-Geneva campaign of the Soviets and their puppets was directed towards Pakistan, the host of three million Afghan Refugees. Besides massive propaganda against the resistance they started to create an atmosphere of distrust between the local people and refugees through brutal act.pf terror against civilian targets which was followed by anti-refugee detoosntrations organized by the elements sympathetic to the Soviet policies. The whole purpose of this campaign was to intimidate Pakistan to accept a settlement on the Soviets terms.
 From all the meetings between Pakistani officials and Soviets and Irani officials with the Soviets and UN representative's shuttle diplomacy it seems that there may be some new developments in the efforts for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
 One can not predict what will the Soviets offer in Geneva when a time-table for the withdrawal of Soviet troops will be discussed The real intentions of Soviets are not not known If the Soviets want to withdraw their forces in a short period of time, something Pakistan is demanding, the immediate question would be asked: Who will rule Afghanistan? If Soviets insist on their so-called democratic puppets that does not lead to peace because Mujahideen will continue to fight. If after the withdrawal of their forces they see that the puppets are in danger of destruction by the Mujahideen without outside aid, what would be their reaction? All the above questions can not answered in Geneva because the Soviets and Mujahideen who are principle elements of the conflict are not there.
 For Afghan Resistance the following points are great importance:
        1- Immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
        2- The right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination,
        3- Restoration of Islamic and non-aligned status of Afghanistan.
 Afghan Resistance is watching the developments very closely. It welcomes any step which leads to the freedom 9f Afghanistan and will oppose anything less than that.
                    The world will see very soon what the Soviets offer when the time-table for the
OFCHPN tEUS VO..II I, MO.5, Mlf 19B7 PAGE I
 withdrawal of their forces are discussed
 We hope our Pakistani brothers will not agree on anything which against the natural aspiration of Afghan Nation.That is freedom from foreign domination.
                                NEWS
                           FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                           QANDAHAR PROVINCE.
 7/2/1987: Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Naqib attacked the enemy post in Gondegan near Qandahar city with light and heavy weapons The attack which started at 1 30 Pm continued till b:30 Pm 12 puppet soldiers were killed and 2 AK-47 guns were seized. One Mujahid was Martyred
 9/2/87; Mujahideen from Jami'at were on patrol to provide security for the Mujahideen's supply convoys in Dasht-i-Bori. East of Qandahar city when Soviets attacked a convoy of the Mujahideen passing the area
 Mujahideen on duty attacked the enemy's ambush party, destroying one tank and killing 7 Soviet soldiers.The Mujahideen supply convoy passed safely
 14/2/1987: Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked enemy positions in Dasht-i-Sofi and Qishla-i-Naw with heavy weapons including Bm-12 Rockets In Dasht-i-Sofi two Bm-21 launcher were destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers killed In Qala-i-Naw one tank and one truck were destroyed, and 7 soldiers killed
                                              PAJrr/A PROVINCE
 7/2/1987: A group of Muiahideen from Jami at under the command of Habibullah attacked the position of the enemy in Bak Sub-district of Khost
 The enemy suffered heavy casualties in men and material Commander Habibullah and one of his Mujahideen were martyred, when hit by fragments from the enemy
 artillery shell
                                              KABUL PROVINCE
 6/2/1987: Mujahideen from Jegdalic front of Sorobi District attacked an enemy convoy in Tangi-Abrishomi on Kabul-Jalalabad road Two enemy tanks and one truck were destroyed No figures are given for the casualties of the enemy
flFCHWhCUSVa_.nl, NO 5, 1/3/ 19B1 PfflSE 3
                                        FARYAB PROVINCE
 From Jan 26 to February 3 fighting continued between the Mujahideen in Maimana and communist forces on Jarqala, Khawaja Mosa and Kariz posts of the enemy These posts provide protection for the airport, the only Soviet base in Maimana city
 Enemy made use of artillery and air force against the Mujahideen Mujahideen used M-1 rockets against the enemy targets. Enemy casualties mounted to about one hundred, including some Soviet soldiers 9 Mujahideen were martyred and 18 others wounded The above operations had a positive effect on the morale of the Mujahideen
 According to a letter sent by Maulawi Sayyid Yousof, the provincial Ameer of Faryal*, Mujahideen convened a big meeting in second week of January at which the reconciliation program of the puppets and their so-called ceasefire was rejected
 Imams of the mosques have given the job to expose the real designs of the enemy and tell the people to be on guard against them The following attacks were carried out since then
 14/2/1987 Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrison with Bm-21 rocket and destroyed their communication office. Thirteen enemy soldiers and officers were killed and the building took fire
 24/1/1989: As"a result of a rocket attack against militia post in Toor Pakhtoo, 3 puppets were killed, 5 others wounded.
 25/l/1987:The following enemy targets were attacked ».
 1-Toor Pakhtoo post 2 Enemy posts in Bulcheragh 3- Soviet base in the city of Maimana 4 Communication building and local radio station
 28/1/1987 Mujahideen attacked enemy post in the city 31 puppet were killed 2 officers and 2 Soldiers captured, and 23 guns and a big amount of ammunitions seized
                                             BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 During the past month, Mujahideen from Jami'at in Andarab have launched a series of attacks against enemy posts in Shashan , Qasan, Deh-Salah and lower parts of Andarab valley Several Militias have been killed and their weapons captured. In one of the operations in Shashan one Mujahid was Martyred
 In Dara-i-Qalat post in the lower part of the valley 4 militias were captured.
                                       REIGN OF TERROR IN LYBIA.
 The state controlled TV in lybia recently showed the execution of nine people, 3 military and 6 civilians who were accused of killing Lybians and plotting against Soviet advisors
 It is believed that all the people belonged to an Islamic movement which opposed the undemocratic rule of Qadafi and resent the ever increasing influence of Soviets in that
 country.
 It has been observed that in the last few months several Imams in the mosques have opposed the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in their sermons Talking into account the oppressive rule of Qadafi regime this is indeed something very drastic,
HFGHPN NEUS VCL.. I I I ^ NO 5, \W 19B7 PfiGE 4
The Qadafi regime has called the accused persons the elements of imperialism and Zionism, a label commonly used against the regimes’ political opponents
Lybia is supporting the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan and itself is involved in a lot of conspiracies against its neighbours and in fighting in Chad.
Peace be upon the souls of those Muslim brothers who were martyred defending their religion and freedom of their country from the foreign influence Justice will succeed and the forces of oppression are doomed to failure
                           SOVIETS ADMIT DIFFICULTIES
The openness policy of Gorhachov is revealing some of the problems Soviets are facing* in Afghanistan Last year Gorbachov called Afghanistan a bleeding wound. There are now more reports about the war in Afghanistan than the past Recently the Soviet TV has talked about factional fighting between the puppet regime A Soviet reporter has said that the level of fighting has increased two to three times since the announcement of a unilateral ceasefire by the regime He has also mentioned the difficulties of the regime in getting the support of the people for its programs
SOVIET CHESTS HAVE A GOOD TIME IN DEMOCRATIC AFCHAINISTAN I
The Soviets are facing more serious problems than factional fighting The failure of the regime to broaden its base after seven years of occupation has put the Soviets in a difficult position They do not have any other choice except to support the regime and involve themselves permanently in the war against Afghan Nation or admit their mistakes, leave Afghanistan and let the people of Afghanistan choose whom they think is suitable for them
                      AFGHANISTAN AND POLAND
                     A STAND POINT OF THE POLISH OPPOSITION
Seven years ago the Soviet Union invaded a small neutral country, one of the poorest in the world Since then, the Afghan peasant mountaineers have been leading a dramatic guerrilla war against one of the greatest military powers in the world In an increasingly devastated land, hungry, cold and poorly equipped partisans successfully oppose the red army- and nothing seems to indicate that the Soviets can count upon a rapid victory The Mujahideen have the support of the population, which pays a high
flFGHFH reus VOL. HI, NO.5, lf'V 1997 PAGE 5
 price in blood and in tears for its determination.
 The war has taken a heavy toll - about one million dead, a great number of wounded and crippled, four and a half million refugees, a country in ruins The U N. Human rights commission has repeatedly stated in its reports that the Soviet Union uses terror against the civilian population as a means of warfare
 Only the indifference and oblivion which surround this war make the systematic extermination of the Afghan people possible Although its outcome is still open, it may already be said that it will not only depend upon the Afghans military resistance, but also upon the support - moral and political- which they will get from world public opinion
 The Soviet Union s image in the world will greatly influence the success or failure ol* its global, international policy Poles living in their country as well as abroad should participate in the creation of a massive anti-Soviet protest movement. Widespread and full information about Soviet crimes and about the situation in Afghanistan could serve as a precious aid to this people in arms, as well as an efficient means of counteracting the spread of Soviet influence
 Moreover, the war in Afghanistan is a direct polish concern. Although in our own country we are forced to adopt a policy of tactical compromises with the Soviet Union, our support of the Afghans would testify to the high esteem in which we hold their struggle for values that we share and prove our readiness to confirm this in practice.
 A weakening of the Soviet Union lies in our national interest. The large-scale balance of political power in the world is changing. Wherever these changes concern the Soviet Union they also involve the future destiny of Poland, and we must have an active part in them.
 Our political difficulties and the problems which confront the Polish opposition should not isolate Poles from questions of world policy, nor should they limit our activity to exclusively internal affairs The fact that we concentrate upon our own problems may restrict our field of vision and make it difficult to perceive the real conflicts upon which our future depends.
 Whether the Polish question will be present in the consciousness of world public opinion will depend upon the stand taken by Poles on questions concerning the future order of the world. Solidarnosc still functions as the meaningful symbol of an ideal. Its influence will continue to be felt only if - in the name of both "Solidarnosc" and of solidarity, we go beyond our internal concerns and speak out for those who are oppressed in the same measure as we are, or even more so Severely tried by our recent history, we have the moral right, even the obligation, to insist upon the inalienable dignity of individuals and of nations, upon the value of their strife for freedom and sovereignty and to say what we know about the nature of communism and its methods of oppression
 In the struggle of tke Afghan people, Poles perceive such values as courage and determination values without which the "free world" is often helpless in its battle against totalitarianism
 Afghans are enduring enormous sacrifices in their battle against communist atheism, in the name of freedom and of faith- values which the secularized West is not always able to comprehend
 We are therefore united by the common belief that our acts here on earth are reflected on a higher plane, in the laws dictated by our religion.
 Various reasons - humanitarian, political and religious ones should cause us to view the struggle of the Afghan people with understanding and with respect, and to express our support and solidarity with the Afghans in more concrete form.
AFGHAN l-EMS VOL.Ill, HO.5, 1/3/ 19B7 PAGE 6
 We have ourselves often sought the aid and assistance of international organisations -labour unions and others, and could therefore put our experience at the disposal of the Afghan people. A cooperation with our East-European neighbours could find its practical expression in a common support of their struggle- within our countries themselves this would have to be mainly moral and symbolic, whereas our various diasporas could act on a more down-to-earth level.
 Poles are not indifferent to the plight of Afghanistan symbolic actions expressing our solidarity and numerous publications in the underground press are ample proof of this.
 . . This fact has made it possible for a Pole to express his view of the situation in Afghanistan in discussions with political representatives of the West The cooperation between Poles and Afghans has now been initiated - its continuation is an essential task for Polish political thought and action.
                                         FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
 Panjshir valley, December 1980.
 Soviets launched an offensive Most of the people left the villages and sought refuge to the side-valleys. Some old peopfe who were unable to move remained in their houses They were taken as prisoners,
 They were brought to the helipad to be airlifted to the notorious Pul-Charkhi Jail. While they were waiting for the plane. Soviet Soldiers brought a young man named Aziz who was insane. A DChK fired by the Mujahideen killed one soldier. This made a Soviet officer mad and he started to kick Aziz to death in front of the prisoners. Others were afraid of similar treatment but the Soviet officer was satisfied with one death at that time
 The bunch of old people were flown to Pul-Charkhi jail and were interrogated by the Soviet officers. The prisoners who were aged and sick remained in jail for several months
 The Irony about Aziz's death is that his father, brother and cousins are members of the puppet party and even his brother has married a Soviet girl
 This is a lesson for all those who want to make friendship with the Soviets.
                                CIVIL WAR OR THE WAR FOR LIBERATION
 Soviets invaded Afghanistan in 1979, and since then war between the Soviets and the people of Afghanistan has continued
 The presence of a puppet regime, from behind which Soviets act, has confused some journalist to call the war in Afghanistan a civil war the war between the people of Afghanistan. This is a great mistake which goes against the obvious facts ignoring the real situation in that country. Projecting such a view serves the colonial designs of the Soviets and hurts the cause of Afghans who fight for the defense of their homeland.
 The presence of the puppet regime should not be confusing In all the occupied countries the invading forces have tried to form an administration from a bunch of local traitors to control the occupied land more effectively Everywhere in the occupied countries a few thousand people can be found who sell their honor and dignity in return for material benefit. History is full such examples. In parts of Europe occupied by Hiller forces there were people who served the invading forces instead of joining their people against them. The bad names of such regimes have become an example Most of the people are familiar with the word of "quisling regime" which takes its root from the name of a traitor who served the invaders against his people.
AFGHAN fEUS VOL.lit, NO.5, 1/3/ 19B7 PAGE 7
   All those who study events closely, understands that the puppet regime in Afghanistan came to power with help of the Soviet troops. This is not also difficult to realize that after seven years of war that regime is not able to survive if 150, 000 Soviets troops stop to supporting it
   The popularity of the resistance and the support of the absolute majority of Afghan people to the cause of freedom is a fact It is also true that the resistance is not confined in a region or among a section of the people . 80% of the land and the majority of the population is controlled by the Mujahideen. If there were not the overwhelming support of the people the resistance would have been crushed by the Red Army long time ago.
   Puppet regime on the other hand does not have a natural base among the people of v Afghanistan Its army is composed of press-ganged conscripts who hunt for an early opportunity to escape The puppets administration is tightly controlled by the Soviets at all levels Puppets are like a mouthpiece; say what they are told to say and do what they are told to do.                                                                -
AFGHANS' VICTORY IS CLOSE
   The puppets have advantage outside the country. They are supported by the Soviets and its satellites Through this support it has been able to be a member of the UN and NAM and have normal trade and diplomatic relationship with rest of the world including neighboring countries like Iran .Pakistan, China , Western Europe and United states of America For those who are not fully aware of the real situation the outside image of the regime is confusing They think that war is a civil war and Mujahideen are rebels
   The war in Afghanistan is a liberation war with the people in one side and the Soviets in the other side The role of the regime is not more than local guides, informers and
i translators.
I
                                                A WEAK SUMMIT
   As it was predictable the 01 C summit did not pay enough attention to hot issues concerning Muslims struggle for freedom
   The tone of the resolution passed on the Afghan issue was softened by the message of Gorbachov, conservative nature of the host country and presence of the pro-Soviet
   lobby
AFGHAN rEUS VQL. 111, NO.5, 1^3/ 196? PAGE 9
    Afghan Mujahideen, Turkish Cypriots and Moro Mujahideen were given only a very short time to tell the long story of their sufferings, The time of the speech was allocated late at night when the delegates were tired.
    Compared to Taif summit ,the proceedings of the conference on such a hot issue as Afghanistan , was very dull. There was little media converage of the proceedings
    From all the above it seems that despite lavish expenditure of money and extraordinary security measures , the summit fell short of the aspirations of those nations who fight for their freedom
                                 SOVIET SPONSORED ACT OF TERROR
                                                                                                              <
    A powerful bomb planted near a school in a village just outside Peshawar city caused great loss of precious lives. The bomb was hidden in a truck parked in front of a school and close to one of the offices of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. The powerful bomb went off at 915 am on 19 Feb, killing 14 people and injuring more than 60. The local people reacted by taking procession which were joined later by students from different schools and workers of some political parties
                                                       f
    Anti government and anti-Mujahideen slogans were raised and several vehicles belonging to Afghan Refugees were either burned or damaged This is the first time that, the masterminds of terror in occupied Afghanistan have chosen schools for their targets and wanted to make a cause out of the blood and flesh of innocent children This was done after the announcement of So-called ceasefire an reconciliation program, by the puppets and just before the beginning of Geneva proximity talks
    The explosion took place after so-called signs of flexibility by^the Soviet leaders to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan This barbaric act was aimed at creating misunderstanding between people of Pakistan and Afghan Refugees. This meant to put pressure on the Pakistan government and get belter terms in the Geneva talks
    Afghan Refugees fully sympathise with mourning families who lost their members. Some political leaders, sympathatic with the puppets in Afghanistan rushed to the scene and repeated their accusation against Mujahideen, and incited young people to attack refugees
                                                     o
    The over reaction of the people may encourage the communists in Afghanistan and their calloborators in Pakistan to carry out similar acts of subotage against innocent civilian targets
    Knowing about the conspiracy, prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami’at Islmi Afghanistan went to Gari Faqir where the explosion had taken place and talked to the local people on Feb.22 Professor expressed his deep sorrow over the incident and called it a brutal act of common enemies of the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan He also announced a compansation of Rs. 5,000 for each martyred families and 1000 for each person injured and Rs 10,000 for rebuilding the school
    In order to avoid creation of misunderstanding between the people of Pakistan and Afghan refugees its necessary that Mujahideen parties fully co-operation with the Pakistan authorities in exposing the enemy agents
    The refugees will do anything possible to avoid repetition of similar incidents It is also necessary that our Pakistani brothers should not listen to fabricated stories made by those who are their hand in glove with the Soviets
                  THERE IS NO OOD BUT ALLAH, MOHAMMAD IS THE PROPHET OF ALLAH