i ALU A-1
r*ypo „
AFGHAN-
E WS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMl'AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Bax No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II. No. 19. 1/10/1986.
                                   INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER MAS00D
{Recently the well-known British journalist, Sandy Gall, visited Afghanistan and met Commnader Masood in Takhar province and interviewed him. Part of the interview was used fay the BBC persian service. Below aire extracts from this interview.)
Q. What are the militarty changes in the last four years in Afghanistan?
A. The most important change is the escalation of the war. Every year the war has become more severe. Both ( Mujahideen and the Russians) have increased their forces qualitatively and quantitatiyeiy.In the last four 'years the Russians have brought into Afghanistan troops who are more experienced and better trained. They also have more modern weapons. They use long range guns and heavy artillary. The Russians no doubt have gained more exprience in the last four years in Afghanistan. They use better tactics too.
Q. What kind of war is being launched by the Russians in Afghanistan?
A. Anywhere you go in Afghanistan you will face thousands of destroyed villages. Every day you can see in Afghnaistan that our villages are bombed by Russian fighter aircraft and shelled by Russian heavy and long range artillary. Every day you can see that crops are burned, animals killed and the people themselves massacred. Pressure on the civil population is much more than the pressure on the Mujahideen.This dearly shows the Russian s policy to either push the civil population to the rities under their control or force them to leave the country. I think that the Russians have started a war against the civilian population not just against the Mujahideen.
Q. What is your biggest problem?
    A. It is obvious that we are fighting against a super-power. Eight years of war can not be without big problems. But this year the main problem in the North would mainly be shortage of food. Unfortunatly we have had little rain in the North and also on 15th June , 1986 the Russians launched a massive offensive in the areas of Kundoz and Takhar provinces.Hundreds of harvests of the people were burnt and their irregation channels were delibrately destroyed.The people did not have a
o f
   AJPfiBAM NEWS___YOL-II____M& 13____1/10/1986___PAGE 2
    chance to cultivate their rice fields. So these areas may be threatened with famine.We have to think about this problem right now. ;
 Q. What do you think about the withdrawal of 7000 troops from Afghanistan?
 A. Militarily speaking, the withdrawal of 7000 troops has no value, because the Russians have sufficient forces in Afghanistan. Moreover the Russians have brought and are bringing thousands of their commando troops from Soviet Russia into Afghanistan by helicopters and Antonov planes whenever they need.I think it is just a political manoeuver to propagate and confuse the world public opinion.
                                           Courtesy: Afghan Update
 Q. What about changes in the Soviet Tactics.
 A. As I told you before during several years of war in Afghanistan the Russians have learnt how to fight.But fortunately Mujahideen have also changed their tactics.The Russians are no longer better than the Mujahideen.
 Q, Four years ago you had told me that, you would leave Panjshir valley and expand your fighting zone?
 A. Establishing different and new bases in different parts of the country has been and still is the upper most priority .With the help of God we were able to create a central command for the five provinces in the North. The first two, neighboring Kabul are Parwan and Kapisa provinces and the last three are Kunduz, Baghlan and Takhar.We have established several bases like Panjshir in these areas.We mobilized the Mujahideen, we stepped up the level of fighting against the enemy. Despite all kinds of regional
  AfGflAii NEWS_______YOL. II WO. 19____________1/10/1916_____PAGE .1
 economic and logestic problems we are, thanks God, successful in pur efforts.
 Q. How are you financed?
 A. The biggest financial source is the people themselves. We get Usher(Ten percent of the harvest) from people. Those who work in the cities in the government offices give us voluntarily five percent of their salary .Mines like salt lapiz and emerald are in our control which we sell in the world market.And lastly the easiest financial source are the enemy convoys which bring food and other things from the Soviet Union. We capture both money and commoditities from these convoys.
 Q. Do Afghan refugees return to Afghanistan while the Russians are still here?
 A. There were two reasons why the people left the country.
    1)  The Communists take ovdr.
    2)  The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
    As long as these two reasons are there refugees will never return.
 Q. What about the Geneva talks?
 A.The Geneva talks are useless. Since we are not controlled by any outside power we will not accept any settlement which we are not part of.
 Q, How many times the Russians have tried to assassinate you?
 A. Three or four times but with the help of Allah they have always been discoverd and foiled by our brothers.
 Q. We hear you are getting married. Is it true?
 A. It is not true. You know better that there is no time for such things.
 Q. For eight years you have been fighting against the SovietsJIave you ever thought of giving up and surrendering?
 A. It is the enemy which should give up. Russia is condemned by world public opinion and political and economic pressures have increased on them, Soviet losses are high and this has an effect in its people.The Puppet regime in Kabul is in a critical position. Parcham and Khalq parties are fighting against each other. Najib’s comming to power has worsened the situation. From all this you can judge yourself is this the time for fighting or giving up?
 Q. What is your message to the leaders of the west?
    AFfiflAN NEWS__YQL. il___HQ..13___1/10/1986    PAGE 4
   A. If, God forbid, the Afghan Nation is defeated in their just war (Jehad) the Russians would be encourged. Therefore I ask ail the nations of the West to pay attention to their human responsibilities and feel responsible for the Afghan Mujahid Nation.
                                         THE RED ROUTE
                                 HEROIN FROM PUPPETS VIA MOSCOW
  On 2 June, the Soviet frieghter, Kapitan Tonson arrived at Roterdam laden from the Baltic port of Riga Among the frieght were two containers packed with 30 tons of rasins from Afghanistan.
  The police searched the container. 485 lb; of herion was discovered. The cost of the heroin reached £ i 3,000^000.
                  The most unusual thing about the siezure was not the size but the route.
  This incident raise a serious question about the Soviets role in drug trafiking, The Soviets have allowed the growing of opium in the occupied areas of Afghanistan. The so-called militias of the puppet regime situated along the boders with Iran and Pakistan are drug dealers who do their job with the consent of the Soviets. KHAD, the puppet regime's KGB which is organized financed and controlled by the Soviets have organized cells to smuggle drug through the neibouring countries.
  Drug traf iking is a crime. But when done by a communist country it can not be the Isolated work of individuals. Soviets and their puppets use drugs as an economic-political weapon. When the Pakistan Government cracked down on drug dealers in the tribe! belt inside Pakistan, the Soviets and their puppets supported the dealers by sending arm and money to them and spreading propanganda against the government of Pakistan.
   AEGflAKJN&W-S,—.YflL,.. 11___________MO, 19 1/1Q/19M- PACE 5
 The Soviets abiding by the prenciples of Marxism-Leninism are making use of every opportunity to harm their enemies. Drugs is one of these weapons.
                             (The following press release was issued from Jurist Office on Sep. 11th.)
   PROFESSOR RABBANI ASKS FOR COORDINATED ACTION TO HELP
                                                 HERAT
 Reports of severe fighting in Herat have reached here. The enemey is making use of long range artillary and their air force against the mujahideen and the civilian population. The mujahideen have suffered some casualties and those amongst tthe civilian population are high.
 The Mujahideen in Herat are resisting heroically, but they need to be supported. Professor Rabbani has asked from all mujahideen, especially Jamiat commanders, to launch coordinated action against the enemy, Such action would divert the attention of the Soviets away from Herat. We are sure that through a coordinated action of this kind the enemy will suffer great losses and its plans will be foiled.
                                MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED A SOVIET SOLDIER
 4/9/1986 According to a report from Commander Mushtaq of Jamiat in Paghman Mujahideen captured a Soviet soldier with his weapon.
                                 NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
 19/8/1986. Soviet-Puppet forces attacked the West part of Herat city. The enemy forces which were composed of a large number of tanks and armoured cars and thounsands of infantry soldiers, were heavily supported by the air force.The enemy forces attacked the city from the South-East, the South and West. The purpose of the enemy was to encircle the city and its surrounding areas.
 the Mujahideen resisted the invading forces, 100 enemy troops were killed and 50 others injured. Mujahideen captured 50 puppet soldiers and seized 50 guns. A large number armoured carriers were destroyed but the report
 does not give an exact number.
     AFGHAN HE1S_______YOL. II NO. 19          1/10/1986 PAGE 6
    Three junior commanders and eight Mujahideen were martyred and five others injured.
    The enemy massacred 42 old men women and children in Naqi Abad vallige of Enjeel district
    Fighting is still continueing,
    17/9/1986. According to a letter sent by Commander Esmaeel from Herat the mujahideen have been able to destroy 11 new built security posts around the city and fighting for the remaining 3 is continuing. The later says that the mujahideen of Herat city were reinforced by mujahideen from Badghis province and other districts of Herat. The enemy is pounding the area with * long range artillary and areal bombardments. No detail is given about the casualties of the two sides.
                                       REPORT FROM PA6HMAN
    3/9/1986, A report sent by Mullah Ezzat, Jami’at commander in Paghman says that a Soviet convoy which was on its way to Paghman (a district 20 Km. West of Kabul) was attacked by Mujahideen from Jamlat. in half an hour of fighting 14 trucks were set on fire and thirty enemy soldiers were killed. Some units from the Puppet Army tried to help the mentioned convoy but after losing one truck they retreated.
    At 5 pm. on the same day the enemy airforce attacked the residential areas close to the ambush site (lOKm. from Kabul). This continued for one hour. Many houses were destroyed.
    At 6 pm. more troops and tanks were brought into the areaMujahideen resisted the new force too, Despite heavy fire the enemy could not pass the area. After dark they continued pounding the area with artillary and heavy
    rockets,
    The next day the enemy reached Paghman under fire cover which was provided by six jets.Since the residents of the area had already been evacuated, all the bombardments could not cause any casualties.
    After reaching Paghaman the Soviets started their usual operation of searching the villages, burning the houses and killing the cattle.
    20 Mujahideen were martyred when their hideout was found by the Soviet soldiers with the help of some local collaborator. These Mujahideen were killed by explosive. 6 Mujahideen were injured in the same incident. None of them are in a critical condition.
    Soviet criminals destroyed underground water channels (Kariz) and the springs which the local people use for drinking and irregation.
   AFGflABLmW-S______YQJL1I_____HQ- 19_____1/10/1986      PAGE  7
  The Soviets remained In Paghman uni 11 10/9/1986 were trying to-recover the dead bodies of the soldiers.
  After the first two days of clashes Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Paghman twice. Soviets left Paghman on the 10th of the last month.
  it should be mentioned that Mullah Ezat is an important military figure of Mujahideen around Kabul.He took the command of Jamiat Mujahideen in the area when his predecessor, commander Khalo, was martyred in battle with the Soviets last year. He believes in organized work and likes to cooperate with other Mujahideen groups.
                                          QANDAHAR PROVINCE
  4/9/1986. Muahideen attacked an enemy convoy on the Kandhar-Kabul highway , Four tanks and trucks were hit by RPG fire. 2 mujahideen were martyred and 3 others wounded. Communist casualties were not immediately known.
  5/9/1986. Mujahideen of Jamiat headed by Mullah Naqib attacked the enemy security posts close to Puppets Army Corps. The enemy tanks were send to support the militias under the attack. 2 tanks were hit and 25 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The Mujahideen captured 5 guns and some ammunition, Mujahideen safely returned to their bases.
                                           BAD6HIS PROVINCE
  31/8/1986, Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked militia posts in Aabgarm area. 12 militiamen were killed and wounded and 13 guns were seized. The report is silent about the casulties of Mujahideen.
  3/9/1986. Mujahideen attacked militia posts in Khakistan area and captured 22 militiamen with their weapons.
  Badghis is a province located in the North-West part of Afghanistan and has a common border with Turkmamstan of the USSR. According to some reports the food situation is bad in the area. This is partly due to war and partly because of little rain fall in the area, Jamiat Islami Party is well established in the area and Mujahideen of Badghis have close link with Mujahideen of Herat,
                                        KUNAR PROVINCE
                                 ONE HELICOPTER WAS SHOT DOWN
 6/9/1986 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Badai! valley of Kunar shot down a helicopter with SAM-7. No detail is availible.
                 S          .H.....^9       ,1 |    ^ii^^i^m, I,   ^
  14/9/1986. Mujahideen from Jami’at launched a stand off attack with 107mm rockets on the enemy units in Chawki district. The shells landed on the target but so for we have not recieved details of the emeny casulaties.
  8/9/1986. Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the enemy post in Noorgui subdistrict with 107 mm rickets,No more detatils are is availible,
                                          REPORT FROM GHAZNI
  29/8/1986 The enemy troops attacked Gadakhali village of Moqor district at 10 am. Mujahideen engaged the enemy and fighting continued fop two hours.One helicopter was hit by a ZPU which damaged it and forced it to leave the battle scene. One APC was destroyed by RPG fire. 3 AK-47s'which were in the APC burned and Mujahideen have sent them to Ghazni to be repaired. Mujahideen had no casulaties and no figure for the enemy cavities is given. The report adds that Mujahideen of Jamiat, NIFA and Harakat are cooper ting with each other against the communists. The Jamiat commander in the area is Shair Khan Ahmadi.
                                      A LETTER FROM A COMMANDER
  Afghan News recently recieved a letter written by Esmaeel Khan the Chief Commander of Herat on April 14th to the office of Herat in Peshawar.Following is the translation of some parts of the letter.
  The weather in Herat is very pleasant. Thanks be to Allah the moral among the Mujahideen is very high. Mujahideen in the area are cooperating with each other.
  In a series of meetings which were held in Herat the commanders discussed the future plan of action against the enemy and we talked about actions to take place on April 27 (The anniversary of the communist coup) . All the commanders were present at the meetings.
  The house of Abdul Karim from Karukh ( A district of Herat) was attacked by a large force. 12 Mujahideen present there were martyred and the communists captured one DschK, one Mortar and 12 guns.The Communists looted some villages In the area.
  As usual we are facing shortage of arms and ammunition, especially after we lost some trucks full of ammunition as the result of the enemy's aerial attack. We are facing shortages of medicine for our hospitals. Our Mujahideen do not have proper clothes and shoes. Food is also a problem for the Mujahideen and the civil population. As a result of continuous bombardments and offensives very few cattle can be found in the area. The price of Meat and other food stuff has gone up and we are not able to give meet for our mujahideen even once a week. More important we do not have the money to buy what is locally availible. Your urgent attention is needed.
                           (
                                                 Yours
                                      Commander M, Esmaeel
     AFGHAN NEWS________XQLJL1_______NO. 19       1/10/1986    PAGE 9
    Afghan News believes that the situation In Herat has not improved but on the contrary it has worsened Successive offensives bring more death and destruction to the people there. We want to draw the attention of those who have the heart and the means to help.
                                                                   vjS?' ■
    Herat is an historical city and Allah has bestowed its people with th§ good leadership like Esmaeel Khan. The people of Herat has given great sacrafices to preserve their religion and freedom.
    After seven years of continious war against a super power the mujahideen and the people desperately need aid In the form of medicine, food, clothes etc. So far very little is done to help these brave people
    May Allah protect Herat from the red devils of communists.
                                 JAMI'AT OPENED OFFICE IN WASHINGTON
    Jami’at opened a public relation office in Washington last month. The gffice is headed by Eshan Jan Areef a veteran of the Islamic cause of Afghanistan.The office has started publishing a monthly paper called "Afghan Jehad News”.
    We hope the office will succeed in its aim of publicising the cause of Afghanistan,
                                               A WISE STEP
    The council of the North has decided to stop the flow of Refugees to outside the country. The decision went into effect Immediately.
    Mujahideen believe that the Soviet policy of depopulation of the country side is aimed at weakening the armed struggle.
    The main obstacle in the way of this decision is lack of resources to help the people who have lost every thing. There are more than 2 million internal refugees in Afghanistan who are in desperate need of humanitarian assistance. Emmergency aid programmes are the only way to keep the people who want to stay in their own country. Any help in this direction will foil the Soviets’ designs to depopulate the country side and weaken the resistance.
                                WHY DO THE LEAVE THEIR COUNTRY?
    it was about sunset one summer day of 1985 when we came accross a group of refugees, They were comming down from a pass of 16,000 foot, hight. Among them were very young children and very old men and women. We aske "Where are you from?", “We are from Kunduz” the reply came,the old man continued," the Soviets killed a large number of our people about 400 of them. We left our houses, we have walked one month, we can not walk faster. How many more days do we walk to reach Pakistan?"
 AfGBAftMWS_______XQLOI_______MQJL2____________1/IUI?M—EAGJL_iiL
 This is a tragic but a true story. One day In 1984 a Soviet, convoy was ambushed by Mujahideen near Chardara district of Kunduz provlce. A gpviet officer was killed. The Soviets attacked the area. They killed 400 people, mostly innocent civilian population. The rest of the population felt scared and left the area. They moved to the mountanous regions and stayed there the winter and continued their sad journey the next spring.
 Several of these people especially the very young and very old ones died along the way because of severe weather and sickness.As we walk^cf we saw new graves along the track. These graves belonged to the 111-fed and sick refugees who could not survive the hardship of a long trip and died before reaching the safety.
 i asked myself "why should these people suffer and for how long?" Tears came to my eyes and started to weap.
 Minutes later I thought this is life and these things happen. We are not the first people who has suffered and may not be the last. Suffering a way of defense of faith and freedom is a type of worship. What will happen if we stop resisting.the enemy who humilate our religion and try to destroy our culture. If we do not resist we become like the people of Bukhara< The muslim occupied areas in central Asia) who are not their own masters. What happened to their culture, their beautiful mosques and their freedom, it js better to suffer than to submit to invaders.          ,
 A verse from the Holy Ouran relieves us when we go under suffereing or
 pain:
 SO LOSE NOT HEART NOR FALL INTO DESPAIR:
 FOR YOU MUST GAIN MASTERY IF YOU ARE TRUE IN FAITH