AFGHAN
niws
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMl'AT ISLAHI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Boi No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Yol. II. No. 23. 1/12/1986.
                                        ANOTHER SIGNIFICANT VICTORY
                                                                                                                        %
 The fall of Nehrin garrison oh November 13th was a significant victory for the Mujahideen. This victory came in less than three months after the fall of Ferkhar
 garrison.
 Nehrin is a district of Baghlan province 35 km. N-E of Bagh&lan city ..The garrison was manned by more than 400 men from the puppet army In 1979 Mujahideen captured the same garrison but it was re-e$tablihed and strengthened. In the past Mujahideen had attacked the garrison several times but were not able to capture it
 When the council of the North was formed, Abdul Hay Haqjoo, the chief commander of Jami’at in Baghlan agreed to co-operate with the efforts of Cammander Masood in coordination and re-organizational work in the North. As a result of this agreement the
 victory over the garrison became a reality.
 This victory indeed encourages the Mujahideen of this area and will serve as an example for the Mujahideen of the rest of Afghanistan to see the result of co-ordinated actions carried out by trained Mujahideen, applying the surprise element.
 It is interesting to see that when Mujahideen were planning the attack on the garrison they were fighting another battle against the enemy forces in Ferkhar which was trying to re-establish the garrison they lost two months ago. The enemy lost that battle too
 The following conclusions can be drawn from the victory in Nehrin.
        1-  The North has undergone a significant organizational change and has moved to a new stage in the war for liberation (jehad).
        2-  There is an improvement in the tactical abilties of the Mujahideen, to lead battles in which more than 500 men are taking part.They surprised the enemy in coordinated action and won the battle with relatively low casualties.
        3-  Self-sacrafice is an obvious facet of this new development. People from different areas are commnaded by local commnaders Ye should admit that this was not possible in the past.
        4-  Great descipline during and after the battle is shown in all the operations. The spoils of war belong to the organiaztion and the prisoners are delivered to the judicial authorities and the Mujahideen take precaution of possible enemy counter attacks. These elements to a large extent were missing in traditional wars.
        5-  Both Mujahideen and the civilians’ morale have been boosted. This iat victory will improve morale yet more. The puppets morale is lowe. After their recent crushing defeat and the unabiiity of the Soviets to help them will demoralize them further. !
  AFGHAN NEWS____YQL H_____NO. 23   1/12/1986   PAGE 2
      6-  The Mujahideen's attitude towards the enemy has changed from a defensive mode to an aggressive one. It is a significant change. The aggressive attitude towards the enemy is a must for guerilla fighters if they are to be able to survive and expand their network.
      7-  The pessimistic views expressed by some people over the situation in Afghanistan is chailanged by these positive developments. The resistance is not only alive but active too.
      8-  Most important of all, the mercy of Almighty Allah has been on the side of the Mujahideen. God help those who help themselves. Almighty Allah helped the selfless efforts of thousands of our brothers and sisters who worked day and night to improve the organizational work. These efforts showed their result in the form of victory over the enemy. All that is from our Lord(Allah) and we are thankful to Him.
Mujahideen from Jamiat launched a surprised, co-ordinated and well-planned attack against the fortified enemy garrison in Nehrin and capured it. The first phase of the attack was launched at 4:15 pm. on 1 i/11/1986 and continued till 4:00 am the next day. During this phase, the headquarters of the Sarandoy (Police), KHAD and the district administration and three posts belonging to the armed forces of the puppet regime were captured.
On 13/11/1986 at 3 00 pm, the second phase of the attack was launched which resulted in the fall of the whole garrison. The following units of Mujahideen took part in the operation:
               1- Two Central units.
               2- A mobile unit from Panjshir (Kapisa province).
               3- A mobile unit from Khost-o-Fring (Baghlan province).
               4- Several units from Nahrin (Baghlan province).
                      5-  Some units from the center of Baghlan,
  TO US, ISLAM IS A WAY OF LIFE
                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                       NAHRIN GARRISON CAPTURED
  AFGHAN XM5______YQL.ll____NO. 23   1/12/1986___PAGE 3
             6-  A unit from Keshm (Badakhshan).
             7-  A unit from Qunduz.
             8-  A unit from Eshkamish (Takhar province).
 The following items’were captured by the Mujahideen:
             1 - 3 tanks (type not mentioned)
             2-  4 pieces of artillery (76 mm)
             3-  4 mortars
             4-  One R-104 communication set.                                c
             y One communiteation set of ’PALMA' type belonging to Sarandoy
             (police).
             6* 1,000 light weapons of different kinds.
             7-  A great amount of ammunition of different types.
             8-  Great quantities of food, clothes and medicine
             9-  5 trucks.
 During the fighting one Mi-17 helicopter which was trying to bring re-inforcements
 to the garrison was shot down with DShKM fire.
 Ihg whole. operation.-v*s pl»gpeq. apd_ carried out under the gommapd of Afrdgt Iry Hialaa thy chMjEammutenj>IJimLat in BjgMaiLitaaaflfie aMCommapder Shams, the ammutsL Qf Jtmiii
 ip Ba^lflan city. worked as his deputy.
 During the operation 19 Mujahideen were martyed and 26 others wounded which is a
 relatively high casualty,
                                                   •
 All the garrison troops which numbered 450 people were either killed, wounded or captured. No more details are available yet. Nehrin garrison was maned by the Puppet army and there were no Soviet personnel there.
 Nahrin is a district of Baghalaa province about 35 Km. North-East of Baghlan city.
                                                     PANJSH1R
 11/11/1986. Mujahideen from Chmalwarda( a side valley in Rukha) attacked the Soviet garrion and positions belonging to the puppets with 82mm. RR, Mortar and RPG As a result of the atlack.the headquarters of the Soviet forces and two ammunition dumps were set on fire Mujahideen returned safely to their base . Enemy casualties are not known yet.
 Rukha is town in Panjshir which had a population 15,000 before the war. The Soviets have about 4,000 troops stationed in the town but control not a single sole there. The town is deserted. The commander of the area is a brave young man , named Gulhaider who has an artificial leg
                         BADGHIS PROVINCE
 28/10/1986 Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Sabz Kotal and Khawja Postan 8 enemy (DRA) soldiers were killed and seven others wounded. Three enemy soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen. One Mujhaid'was martyred,
                           t     %v
                         k
  AEGHANJSES&___YGkJl___SCL21___1M1M_______EAGE.iL
                                                TAKHAR PROVINCE
                               THE ENEMY OFFENSIVE AGAINST FERKHAR FAILED TO ACHIEVE ITS AIM.
                     The combined Soviet and puppet forces -which launched an offensive in Ferkhar on November 3rd -withdrew after suffering heavy casualties without achieving anything.
 The enemy troops, which consisted of the 18th and 20th divisions of the puppet army, and a Soviet unit reached Ferkhar city after considerable difficulties. They were ambushed along the route and suffered heavy casualties the exact details of which are not yet available,
                                                                                                                       t
 On 5th November, when the enemy forces were busy consolidating their positions, they came under attack and a fierce battle continued from 9,00am to 3.00pm
 The e nemy became demoralized, abandoned the area and retreated, So far there are no ' details of casulties for either side.
 Here is the report of the engagements of the Mujahideen with the invading forces around Taleqan, the provincial capital of Takhar province:
 22/10/1986, Combined forces of the enemy launched an attack against the Mujahideen position in the* center of Takhar province. Mujahideen resisted well. 45 puppet and Soviet soldiers were killed or wounded.
 30/10/1986 Soviet and puppets supported by tanks and airplanes attacked Mujahideen controlled area in Ahahan Dara. 12 enemy soldiers were killed and 6 puppet soldiers captured. Mujahideen captured 21 Ak-47 guns from the enemy. During the ten days of bombardments of the residential areas of Aahen Dara 25 houses were destroyed and 30
 civilians killed,
                     4/10/1986. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked a security post of the enemy in Taleqan. 4
 soldiers were killed and 4 guns siezed.
                     11/11/1986 Mu jahideen attacked an enemy post in Aaq Masjed, 10 enemy soldiers and officers were killed and two others wounded. Mujahideen captured 2 RPDs and 6 Ak-47
 guns
 In these operations the report does not give any number for the casualties of the Mu jahideen It should be mentioned that this force is the same which attacked Farkhar to establish the garrision but failed.
                              SOVIET OFFENSIVE AGAINST SHEMALI
 According to reliable sources of Mujahideen the Soviets launched a large offensive against Chemali on November 11th In this offensive two Soviet divisions and a large number of puppet troops are taking part. The offensive was launched after heavy aerial and ground bombardments of the area by the enemy. The enemy lost ten tanks and APCs in Totomdara ( about 7 Km. North of Charikar city on the Salang highway), three tanks in Jabulseraj { at the mount of the Salang valley 75 Km. from Kabul) and five tanks in GuSbahar ( at the mouth of the Panjshir valley) The report says that the Mujahideen lost 9 men during these operations.
 Commander Masood gave orders to the Mujahideen of Salang and Panjshir to attack the enemy from the rear In order to stop Mujahideen's re-inforcements reaching Shemali, the Soviets launched attacks against Feraj and Abdara side valleys which are located at the lower end of the Panjshir valley, On November 15th two enemy helicopters which were landing commando troop in Abdara were shot down with DShKM fire.
  AEGBAJOKES__-YQJL1I__NCLJ23_1/12/1986 PAGE 5
 On November 18, Mujahideen attacked the enemy convoys in Salang as a result of which 50 trucks and oil- tankers and 3 Russian tanks were destroyed. The enemy retaliated with heavy bombardments of the area and on 20th of November enemy commando troops landed in the Salang. Fighting still continue there.
 The enemy offensive which is headed by Gulabzooy, the interior minister of the puppet regime is much larger than in previous years Fighting continues and no details of casualties from either side are given in the report.
 rt
NO BODY SHOUD DOUBT OUR COMMITMENT TO PEACE"
                                                                            ( SOVIET LEADERS)
                                                 NORTH OF KABUL
 8/11/1986, An APC of the enemy was destroyed by a land mine planted by the Mujahideen from Jamiat on the road between Karizmir and Doolana ( about 15 Km. North of Kabul cityl.AU the occupants of the APC were killed in the incident.
 9/11/1986, The road between Qala-i-Raigi and Qaia-i-Ahmad was mined by the Mujahideen from Jami at. A 60 P,B type APC of the puppets hit the mine and was destroyed, 4 men including a puppet officer were killed.
 2/11/1986. Soviet puppet troops attacked the villages of Jansha and Ezat Khail in Shakardara districtThe enemy retreated after loosing six men and achieving nothing.
 15/11/1986. An enemy militia post in Oala- i-Raigi was attacked by the Mujahideen from jami at, After half an hour of fighting 16 militiamen including their commander surrendered to the Mujahideen with 20 Ak-47s and some amount of ammunition.
 The report of the above operations have been sent by Doctor Khan Aqha, Jamiat commander near Qala-i-Moradbaig who is a good fighter and relatively organized.
                                               FARYAB PROVINCE
 24/10/1986, A resupply convoy of the enemy which was going from Maimana ( the provincial capital of Faryab province) to Qaysar district was ambushed by the
   AJEGHAN NEWS___¥0L. II___NO, 23___I/I2/1986   PAGIL&
 Mujahideen from Jami'at in Alamar sub-district 5 soldiers were killed and eight others wounded. Mujahideen destroyed one tank and one truck and siezed 5 Ak-4?s. The enemy convoy returned to Maimana.
 The next day the convoy took another route and reached Qaysar On the way back. Mujahideen ambushed the convoy near Langar village on October 5th. Fighting continued for about 24 hours Mujahideen killed or wounded a large number of puppet troops and siezed 60 guns of different types, One APC and one truck were set on fire. The enemy reached Maimana with much difficulty when helicopters provided air cover for the convoy.
 Almar is a subdistrict of Faryab which is situated 20 Km. West of Maimana city. The area is flat with no vegetation There is little water and cultivation depends mainly on rain The resistance is well established in the area and all the Mujahideen belong to Jami'at Political Party The enemy has one post in Almar which is confined to one building. The people of the area have not become refugees but they are facing food shortages because farm products have been very low due to little rainfall.
                                         KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 4/11/86, Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked a Soviet convoy which was comming from Herat to Kandahar, about 9 Km, outside the city, 15 trucks and 7 tanks were destroyed. Mujahideen also attacked the Silo in Bagh- i-Pui, 6 Km. from Kandahar. No figure for the casualties of.the two incidents is yet known,
                                           FARAH PROVINCE
 8/11/1986. Mujahideen attacked puppet postion in Qala-i-Kah district in Farah province. 17 militias were killed or wounded and 40 others captured,
                                            HERAT PRO VICE
 12/11/1986 Mujahideen attacked a puppet post on the West side of the city and captured 15 armed soldiers,
 29/10/1986, Haji Ameer Jan a militia commander in .Ghorian district of Herat surrendered to the Mujahideen with a large number of his followers. They brought their weapons with them
 30/11/1986. Mohammad Aii Samim the provincial secretary of the puppet party was killed when his tank was hit by rocket fired by the Mujahideen near Herat city The regime confirmed the incident but said that the cause was a mine explosion
                                   PAKT/KA PROVINCE
 5/11/1986 . Two enemy tanks were destroyed by land mines in Dailu area The mines were planted by Mujahideen from Jamiat. According to some soldiers who joined Mujahideen, as the result of the above incident 17 enemy soldiers were killed.
 29/9/1986 Mujahideen attacked Budsha Khan Oala post. Three soldiers were killed and one AK 47 captured, One Mujahid was injured.
 4/10/1986. Mujahideen attacked the mentioned post. Two enemy officers were killed Two Mujahideen were martyred
                                          96 * *
                                       DOWN WITH SOVIET IMPERIALISM
                                          ■* * 96
   AFGHAN NEWS_________Y.Q3LJI______N0.23______IV12/1986 PAGE 7
                        OVERWHELMING SUPPORT FOR THE UN RESOLUTION
 The debate on the Afghan issue ended with voting on a resolution calling for the withdrawal of foreign (Soviet) troops from Afghanistan The resolution was supported
 by 122 to 20 votes
 It is indeed a sign of rejection of the invasion and occupation Although the resolution is very soft in condemnation of the aggressor and avoids naming it, the overwhelming support to the resolution shows that the passage of time is not in favor of the Soviet invaders.
 It is also important to note that this victory comes after one year of Soviet diplomacy to minimize world political pressure. The timing of the so-called withdrawal of some units and the change of tone in relation to Afghan issue and the efforts to give the impression that the puppets in Kabul are gaining ground in the war, all failed to save them from a diplomatic defeat, Ail these steps could not change the mind of the absolute majority of the people of the world about the grave violation of international law by a superpower
 The Afghan resistance is thankful to all those countries who voted for the resolution and even to those countries who did not oppose it The efforts of Pakistan and other members of O.I.C is most admirable in this respect,
 As far as the application of the terms of the resolution is concerned no progress has been made While the resolution is clear about the right of the people of Afghanistan for self-determination and the choice of the type of government, these items have been dropped from the proximity talks which are taking place under the auspices of the UN.
 On the other hand Soviets have ignored all the resolutions and have continued their occupation of Afghanistan. By now the world should have reached the conclusion that the Soviets are not interested in finding a solution to the problem which they have created themseives.The Soviets are buying time to win a military victory against the people of Afghanistan. This policy has forced five million Afghan people to take refuge in neighbouring countries and a million have already died. Can the un-named resolutions and polite requests from the Soviet Union lead to a solution which the people of Afghanistan want? Only strong political pressure from the world community and military pressure from inside can force the Soviets to revise their colonial policies.
                         THE TEXT OF THE UN RESOLUTION ON AFGHANISTAN
 General Assembly .
                    Having considered the item entitled "the situation in Afghanistan and its implications
 for international peace and security".
 Recalling its resolutions ES- 6/2 of 14 January 1%0, 35/573? of 2 November 1980, 36/34 of November 1981 37/37 of 29 November 1982,38/39 of 23 November of 1983,39/13 of 15 November of 1984,40/12 of 13 November of 1985.
 Reaffirming the purposes of principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the obligation of all States to refrain in their international relations from the threat or use offeree against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political indpendence of any State
 Reaffirming further the inalienable right of all peoples to determine their own form of Government and to choose their system free from outside intervention, subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.
 Gravely concerned at the, continuing foreign armed intervention in Afghanistan in contravention of the above principles, and its serious implications for international
 peace and security.
  AFGHAN MEWS__YQL.JI___iiCL-23_l/12ZJLiM—PAGE S
 Noting the increased concern of the international community over the continued and serious sufferings of the Afghan people and over the magnitude of social and ecomomic problems posed to Pakistan and Iran by the presence on their soil of millions of Afghan refugees, amd the continuing increase in their number.
 Deeply conscious of the urgent need for a political solution of the grave situation in respect of Afghanistan.
 Taking note of the report of the Secretary General and the status of the diplomatic process initiated by him.
 Recognizing the importance of the initiatives of the Organization of the Islamic Conference and the efforts of the movement of non-aligned countries for a political solution of the situation in respect of Afghanistan.                              (
 1- Reiterates that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-alligned character of Afghanistan is essential for a peaceful
 solution of the problems.
 2- Reaffirming the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government and to choose their economic, political and social system free from outside intervention subversion, coercion or constraint of any kind whatsoever.
 3- Calls for the immediate withdrawal of the foreign troops from Afghanistan.
 4- Call upon all parties concerned to work for the urgent achievement of political solution, in accordance with the provisions of the present resolution, and the creation of the necessary conditions which would enable the Afghan refugees to. return voluntarily to their homes in safety and honour.
 5- Renews its appeal to all States and national and international organizations to continue to extend humanitarian relief assistance with a view to alleviating the hardship of the Afghan refugees in co-ordination with the United nations High
 commissioner for Refugees.
 6- Expresses its appreciation and support for the efforts and constructive steps taken by the Secretary General, especially the diplomatic process initiated by him. in the search for a solution to the problem.
 7- Requests the Secretary General to continue those efforts with a view to promoting a political solution in accordance with the provisions of the present resolution, and the exploration of securing guarantees for the non-use of force or threat of force, against the political independence, sovereignty, territorial intergrity and security of all neighbouring States, on the basis of mutual guarantees and strict non-interference in each other's internal affairs and with full regard for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
 S- Requests the Secretary General to keep member States and the Security Council concurrently informed of progress towards the implementation of the present resolution and to submit to member States a report on the situation at the earliest appropriate opportunity
 9- Decide to include in the provisional agenda of its 42nd session the item entitled "the situation in Afghanistan and its implications for international peace and security
                                 AFGHANS RALLY IN NEW YORK
 On November 6th, a large number of Afghans demonstrated in front of the UN building to protest against the occupation of their country by the Soviets. The demonstration took place after the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution calling for the withdrawal of foreign ( Soviet) troops from Afghanistan.
  AfGflAJLMgS mJU________MO. 23 1/12/1986_BASIL 9
                                   MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION TO THE UN
 The Mujahideen sent a delegation to New York at the eve of the General Assembly's debate of Afghanistan issue.
 This year the delegation was led by Mauiawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, the current spokesman of Alliance. Taking into account the nature of such a trip, this year it gained a fair amount of publicity
 So far the purpose of the trip has been confined to providing information to the world about the real situation in Afghanistan.
 It is necessary to give a greater purpose for such trips and its final aim should be* regaining the seat of Afghanistan in the UN
 In order to do that both, Mujahideen and the friends of Afghanistan, especially the IOC and the Non-Aligned Movement should take proper steps in this direction,
 The resistance should forge a better unity in the political and military fields among the member parties. They also need to agree on a political program to avoid difficulties of the past, A common office should be openened in New York and an advisory body of Afghan experts be formed to advise the high council of the Alliance about the political
 and legal aspects of the problem.
 The friends of Afghanistan, especially I.Q.C should support the political initiative of the Mujahideen and as a first step recognize the Resistance as the full member of I.O.C.
 These steps lead to the recognition of the Resistance as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan by a large number of countries. The question of regaining the Afghanistan seat which will be decided in the General Assembly! where the Soviets can not veto the move) has a fair chance of success. There is the need for careful planning
 and and hard work
                                           VIOLENCE AT THE UN
 When the Mujahideen delgation was going to hold a press confrence inside the UN building, 3 so-called diplomats of the puppet regime attempted to prevent the delegation from entering the conference hall They resorted to violence inside the UN building It was a blatant vocation of the UN rules and against the spirit of the organaization which has bees established to preserve peace Ail the three puppets possessed diplomatic status.
 The incident reveals the attitude of those who have helped the Sovets to kill a million of their own people and are kept in power with the help of 150, 000 Soviet troops
 Pakistan and Saudi Arabia lodged a protest against the puppets' undiplomatic action. The UN General Secretary called it a deplorable incident.
 We believe that the decision to resort to violence and attempt to stop the Mujahideen delegation can not be made by the puppets themselves Inside Afghanistan and outside,
 they wait for directions from the Soviets. Who are the puppets to do such a thing in the UN building without the Soviets approval? Those who are fully aware of the Soviet-puppet relationship do not find it difficult to to understand the Soviets’ hand behind
 this ugly incident.
                                           MADINA ORPHENAGE
 Madina orphanage was established three years ago to take care of some of those children who have lost their parents in the war against the Soviet invaders. It has a beautiful building, crutside Peshawar, which houses 450 boys of the age 4 to 10. There is a separate branch of the orphanage which has a total number of 100 girls of the same
  AfGHANJNOB W.S_YQi. JI____________NO. 23 1/12/1986 PAGE 10
 age Children study and stay in the hostel of the orphanage. They are fed and lodged by
 the orphanage.
 The orphange is like a boarding school. They follow a well prepared program which includes, reading, writing, history, natural science, mathematics and sports There is a strong emphasis on religious subjects.
 Among other activities the students of the orphanage sing revolutionary songs, which are recorded and sold to the public and they watch films of the activities of the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan.
 So far the orphenage has been visited by a large number of journalists from print and electronic Media and the children have told of eye-witness accounts of Soviet atrocities f
 The director of the orphenage is Habibullah Ghalib an Afghan scholar who graduated from Azhar university in Egypt.
 Madina orphanage is funded by Shaikh Ebrahim Jolaidan a citizen of Saudi Arabia. The African Islamic relief organization is also providing help to the orphenage. Jami at Islami is closely co-operating with the orphanage administration. This co-operation has proved vital for achievements of the orphanage.
 Afghan News admires the establishment of such an institution as a good humanitarian and educational work and wish that the orphanage acheives its aim. There is a need to expand the present orphanage and open more of this type. There are more orphans to be taken care of. Any step in this direction whould be very much appreciated by the
 Afghan resistance.
                                 ERMACORA'S REPORT
 The most recent report of Felix Ermacora on the violation of human rights by the Soviets and their puppets in Afghanistan wms published by the UN authorities. The United Nations only published part of the repoit not all of it.UN officials say that the reason for partial publication was lack of funds
 Others believe that there is a political reason behind this decision The parts which are not published deals with grave violation of human rights by the Soviets and their puppets and the UN authorities were afraid that publication of the whole report could have made the Soviets angry
 It is a pity that the UN has tried to cover up some d facts for the sake of good relations with the Soviets who are fighting a colonial war cince 7 years. The whole purpose of sending an envoy to survey the situation is to let the people know about the facts The Soviets and their puppets have not permitted Mr rmacora to go to Afghanistan and report the situation in areas under their control The reason is simple. Thieves are afraid of Ugh The Soviets are afraid of reporting the facts. The covering up by the UN authories is a deplorable act which only help the aggressor. A persian poem says:
  "Mercy on the sharpteethed Jeopcrc A<* an act of injustice to the sheep "
                Covering up the suffering of millions of Afghans is injustice to the cause of freedom and if it is done by an organization Like the UN it is a tragic event.
                                        * * *
    SOVIETS CAN DESTROY AFGHANISTAN
                          BUT CAN NOT OCCUPY IT
                                         * *
AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264. Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoLlI.No. 24, 15/12/1986.
                                SOVIETS VERSUS MUJAHIDEEN IN 1986
                                                                 0
 27th December marks the 7th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Since that time a bloody war has continued, with no side in a position to claim final victory Although the Mujahideen have failed to push the Soviets out of their country (something no body expected them to do) sThe Soviets have failed to crush the resistance despite unbridled use pf force and the destruction of the economy of the country Let us look closely at the developments of the military and political situation in 1986 to be able to predict the course of events in the comming year.
 MILITARY SITUA TION
 The Soviets wanted io achieve the following military aims in 1986
       1- Cut Mujahideen's external and internal communication network.
       2- Drive out Mujahideen from some major strongholds.
       3- Destablize the tribal areas in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
 They had the above three points in mind for the offensives which they launched in the North, East South-East, South and West of Afghanistan.
 They had a symbolic victory in jawar (highly publicized by the Soviet and Western media); they could manage to create some problems around Qandahar city, by establishing some new posts and they devastated the areas around city of Herat in a long operation to drive the Mujahideen out. In these operations the Soviets suffered heavy casualties and failed to achieve what they wanted The enemy could not totally cut the supply routes, but what they did was to make them more risky by repeated ambushes and by establishing some new posts Enemy offensives around Kabul and in the North faced failure
 What the enemy expected in the Tribal belt did not happen The flow of arms and money to buy off some sections of the tribes, and extensive propaganda by their agents in Afghanistan and Pakistan did not turn the the tribal people to being friends of the Soviets and the enemy of the Mujahideen
 Soviet attempts to strengthen the position of the puppet regime failed. The regime is plauged by desertion of troops: factional tensions and incompetence in performing given duties The last four months of the year were very embarrassing for the new leader of the puppet regime when the two garrisons of the enemy in the North were captured one after the other Operations in Kabul city proved that the Soviets have not been able to secure even Kabul with the presence of 50.000 troops stationed around it
 Soviet morale is not high and;that of the puppets is very low
  AflGfflA&MfS___yi)L lJ___IKL21______15M2/L9M___PAGE 2
 MUJAHIDEEN’S MILITARY POSITION
 During the current year Mujahideen from all over Afghanistan fought well They repulsed enemy attacks, kept their controled areas free and in some cases went on the offensive and had major victories
 The Mujahideen have great potential. only a fraction of which has been used in the war so far Lack of efficient organization paucity of proper resouces, military, nonmilitary, political historical and local problems have prevented them from making full use of this potential Ideological strength, popular support and proper terrain are all working their side.
 The changes in the North under the command of Massoud is not an isolated case. It has a far reaching effect beyond its immediate organizational borders and it set a good example to other areas The enemy 's seven years of effort to destroy this example has failed
 THE AGONY OF A CIVILIAN POPULATION
 Like any other colonial war the Soviet war in Afghanistan is against the whole nation. To them the son who is fighting, the father who is farming and the mother who is preparing food and praying for the victory of her son are all the same This is why they are using everything they have against all the people Five million external refugees two million internal refugees, more than half a million dead and 75% of the villages and towns destroyed are the result of this unlimited war The people suffer Food is not available, medecine is scarce, education seased and no body feels secure Families are divided villages have become the target of Soviet reprisals. The Soviets ire trying to put extreme pressure on the population to force them to leave the country' :>r surrender Despite much talk very little has been done by the international community to help these honourable people It is now a problem for the resistance They fight against the Soviets and at the same time try to look after the people inside :he country With no resources it becomes increasingly difficult to walk on such a tight rope The Soviets are counting on the outcome of this policy to see the country finally leserted by its population The flow of refugees has continued to neighbouring countries.
 THE POLITICAL SIDE OF THE PROBLEM
  1%6 witnessed new Soviet political initiatives. These steps were not aimed at finding a solution to the problem but to deceive public opinion and minimize the political costs if the invasion
  nviting Western journalists to Kabul during the winter of 19S6; successive mouncements for elections and elders assemblies the withdrawal (i) of some units hange of puppet leadership and the soft tone of Gorbachev during his trip to India re all part of this game These steps have given results and the Soviet have benefited ram them.Even some Western journalists who did not have accurate knowledge about he real situation were misled by these moves and published some articles painting a iro-Soviet picture on the situation in Afghanistan
  h the other hand. Mujahideen have also taken some political steps in 1986 which are mportantThe Coalition still exists and the change of leadership is taking place monthly Though its performance is not what we want, its survival is an achievement a itself The spokesman of the Alliance and three other leaders paid an offical visit to menca and France Though the controversy over the American visit prevented it rom achieving some of its aims generally speaking, it was a good step A delagation ras sent to New York on the occasion of the 41st session of the General Assembly and ie resolution passed there with 122 votes was a major achievement, The late visit of rof B Rabhani. leader of Jamiat Islami to the three African countries is a new door ;>r more political steps that should be followed
  AFCHAfl NEWS_VQL.Ji___MJL±____15Z12Z1M6___EAGO
 GENEVA PROXIMITY TALKS
 Despite the optimism of Mr. Coniovez no major achievement has been made in Geneva. The most coatroversal issue, the right for self-determiniation, was dropped from the agenda and the Soviets refused to withdrawa their forces in a short period of time It seems that the Soviets do not have any intention to leave unless the survival of the puppet regime (or a puppet regime) is guaranteed. Under these circumstances, we do not see any possibility in the near future for a solution to the Afghan issue through the present format of Geneva proximity talks.
 A GLANCE AT THE FUTURE OF THE WAR
 The Soviets have weapons, soldiers and money In the present form of war that is not enough to win a victory over the Mujahideen.
 The short term strategy of the Soviets seems to be to act from behind a puppet regime ' both in military and political fields The strength and survival of this regime is essential for any major military and political victory It is obvious that the present puppet regime is too small and too weak to become an important factor in the conflict This regime doesn't have the support of any section of the Afghan Nation. The only weapon it has is Soviet money and fire power which are not proper tools to win the loyalty of the Afghan people
 On the other hand mujahideen, though not in a position to force the enemy out, have popular support They are determined to continue and their fighting abilities are improving and their political initiatives are moving in the right direction.
 With these elements one can say that the war will continue and will even escalate People will suffer more and become refugees 1987 will be witness to important military and political confrontations and even the Soviets may try to create problems for Afghans in the neighbouring countries by direct and indirect means.
 The future of the resistance depends on the co-ordination and re-organization of fighting forces inside the country and better co-operation among the parties in the political field It is also important that those who oppose genocide and destruction of all aspects of the life of a nation at the hands of the Soviets should feel their responsibilities They should honestly support Afghans both morally and materially, and put greater pressuure on the Soviets Peace will return to Afghanistan when the Soviets leave and the people of Afghanistan are given the oportunity to decide their future, free from outside influence and the threat of subversion of any kind. Until then the presence of an effective reistance is a must to achieve that aim
                                        RABBANI'S TRIP TO AFRICA
 Prof B Rabbani the leader of Jamiat Islami of Afghanistan left Peshawar for Africa on Dec 4th 1986 He will officially visit the three countries of Senegal, Niger and Gabon He will have meetings with high ranking officials of the three countries. This trip is part of the political activities of the Mujahideen aimed at mobilising world public opinion behind the just cause of Afghans
 This is a significant trip because the three countries belong to the Non-Aligned Movement and the trip will improve the position of the Mujahideen in this organization
 This trip will help the leaders and people of the host countries to have a better knowledge of the situation in Afghanistan This is necessary because the mobilization of public opinion in the Third World countries against the invasion is one of the main political targets of the Reistance
 We believe that such trips by the leaders of the Resistance are necessary and serve a great purpose,
  AFGHAN NEWS____YQLJLI____NO, 24   15/12/1986___PAGE 4
                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                                   AND ARAB
All the enemy posts in the Pashaii valley of Andarab have come under the control of the Mujahideen Pashaii is the valley which connects Andarab to Panjshir through the famous Khawak pass.
On October 25th when the Soviets captured Aadel Khan (Nephew of Juma Khan) because of incompentence in his duties as head of militia forces in Andarab most of the 300 Militia joined the Mujahideen along with their weapons
On 26/11/1986 the Soviets tried to re-capture the strategic Pul-i-Sar posisition, located in Pashaii. but faced a tough resistance from the Mujahideen The enemy retreated after losing 3 tanks ,two trucks and an unknown number of men
It should be mentioned that Andarab came under the control of the Soviets in 1984 but the resistance has re-gained ground in the past one and half years. Mujahideen have liberated most of the side valleys from the control of the Soviets and their puppets
                                 THE OFFENSIVE AGAINST SHEMALI ENDED
According to a report the enemy offensive against Shemali ended on November 26th Mujahideen fought well The enemy lost 3b tanks and trucks during the offensive 200 puppet troops and 80 Soviet soldiers were killed Mujahideen also suffered casualties the exact number of which is not availible yet
During the offensive in Shemali the Soviets also attacked the Salang and Shotol valleys. One enemy jet and one helicopter was hit by Mujahideen DShK and crushed in the areas under the control of the Mujahideen.
                    In a seperate clash in Feraj side valley of Panjshir 20 Soviet soldiers were killed on Nov.
16 th
                                                      SOROBf
The enemy attacked Jegdalek from the ground and air on Nov. 29th. The Mujahideen shot down an enemy jet with DShK. which crashed in the area controlled by the Mujahideen The pilot was killed Mujahideen couldnot identify the type of plane.
in ground clashes 15 militias of the enemy were killed. One Mujahid was martyred
The enemy purpose was to establish some permanent post in Jegdalek On December 2nd and enemy was forced to leave the area During the retreat, the enemy lost 8 tanks and trucks as a result of mine explosions The mines were planted by the Mujahideen
The report is signed by Commander Anwar
  AFGHAN. MEWS__VOL. I]__MIL-24_1V12/1986 PAGE 5
                   HERAT PROVINCE          . .
 15/U/1986 Mujahideen Slacked enemy posts around the city of Herat More than 100 enemy soldiers were wounded or killed and 10 others captured Mujahideen seized 35 guns Two Mujahideen were martyred and 8 others wounded The posts which were attacked were part of the enemy security belt, built during the last few months of fighting
                                    PARTITA PROVINCE
 20/11/1986. Mujahideen from jami’at were attacked by the enemy During the clash 5 armoured cars of the enemy were destroyed and a targe number of its troops killed or wounded. 5 Mujahideen were martyrd and 15 others wounded.
 9/11//1986, Mujahideen from Jami'at, Hezb and Harakat attacked the garrison in Vaza Khaw with heavy weapons The enemy suffered heavy casualties butthe exact number is not know yet Mujahideen suffered no casualties
        J j :               .  ■■             , g .
       Remember how the unbelievers ploted against you, to keep you in bonds,
       or stay you,
       or expel you from your home.
       They plot and plan                     .
       But Allah also plans
        And the best of Planners is Allah
Al-Anfal(8) 30
                                     MEETING SWEDISH OFFICIALS
 Prof BRabbani met Mr Bengt Sane-Soderberg Under Secratery of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Sweden on 24th of November in the Political Office of Jami at in Peshwar
 The two sides discussed the present situation in Afghanistan. Prof Rabbani stressed the teed for humanitarian and political support for the cause of the people of Afghanistan .o end the occupation of that country by the Soviets
 The Swedish Ambassador in Islamabad and the representative of the Swedish Committee or Afghanistan in Peshawar were also present at the meeting
 There is a relatively strong support among the people of Sweden for the Afghan Cause ind Sweden as a neutral country with anti war movement records can play a instructive role in putting political pressure on the Soviet aggressor to end their iccupation of Afghanistan
                                     LATE VICTORIES CELEBRATED
 ami at central offices in Peshwar celebrated the late victories of the Mujahideen in the forth of the country.
 n a large gathering which took place in Peshawar on November 30. speakers from lifferent parts of Afghanistan hailed the late victories of the Mujahideen in Nehrin nd Ferkhar, They supported the efforts launched by Commnader Masood to re-organize
 AFGHAMMWS___MJU____WO. 24_Utlimte___PAGE 6
 and co-ordinate Mujahideen in the five provinces in the North They asked all the Parties in the resistance to take active part tn these efforts because that is’the only way to resist the enemy effectively
 Among those who spoke on the occasion were Prof B. Rabbani and Allauddin the commander of the Mujahideen of Herat
 The meeting was well organized and well participated. The revolutionary songs sung by the students of Madina Orphanage and other Jamiat schools give a special color to the meeting Delegations from some other political parties also took part in the meeting.
                                  AFGHANS DEMONSTATED IN DELHI
 The Afghan community whose number reaches 6,000. demonstrated in two places in Delhi to protest against the occupation of their country by the SovietsThe demonstration took place when Gorbachov was paying an offical visit to India indian police tried hard to stop such demonstrations and even put a large number of Afghans under house arrest.
 Police resorted to physical violence to stop the peaceful demonstration of Afghans as a result of which some Afghans were injured and a large number of them arrested It is a pity when a criminal like Gorbachov is welcomed with flower petals and the peaceful demonstration of Afghans who have been driven out of their country meet with violence from the Indian police Itexposes the nature of Rajivs democracy
                                       WHEN THE IRON MEN WEPT
 Everybody was happy because they had defeated the enemy and captured Ferkhar garrison It was indeed a moment for joy Mujahideen were busy transfering the prisoners and carrying away the ammunition and weapons that they had captured They were expecting a Soviet counter attack so they were prepared to defend themselves in that case Mujahideen had recieved strict directions from their Chief Commander to make sure that every thing was counted and recorded. After a victory is the time when some people are undiciplined and become careless, the Mujahideen were watching the situation to prevent that from happening
 Somebody complained that Safiullah, a group commander, had taken a coat for himself without reporting it to the appointed committee, Safiullah was one of those few who led the attack to capture the garrison Masood called Safiullah and scolded him in front of all the Mujahideen for what he had done He wept and ail the Mujahideen wept with him He was embarrassed for a mistake which is part of the life of ail humanbeings Masood wanted to teach every one the need for self- control when they are victorious
 Safiullah wept for his mistake but that was all he did This shows the degree of his loyalty to his leader and the depth of his commitment to the cause of Jehad After the incident he was given another job to suvery the disposion of the enemy forces for another attack in Nehrin district but unfortunately he was ambushed by the enemies of Islam and was martyred He did not find the chance to see the victory of Nehrin and show his abilities again and this time be careful not to commit a small mistake The mistake made him more dear to the Mujahideen and will cause him to be remembered more than usual
 PEACE BE UPON ALL THOSE OBEDIENT SERVANTS OF ALLAH WHO WHEN THEY ACHIEVE VICTORY DO NOT BECOME PROUD AND WHEN FAIL DO NOT LOSE HEART WHEN THEY COMMIT A MISTAKE BECAUSE OF THEIR WORLDY NATURE REPENT AND ASK THEIR LORD TO FORGIVE THEM THEY ARE TRUE MUSLIMS AND THE MOMORY OF HISTORY WILL KEEP THEIR GOOD NAMES
  AMLAREEZS______VOL, 11___WL2A_____15/12/1986 PAGE 7
                             NEW FACES OLD POLICIES
 The notorious Babrak was pushed aside and Haji Mohammad was appointed as the head of the Revolutionary Council of the regime Like any other change it was a Soviet-dictated move to give a better image to the puppet regime
 The Soviets have tried in the past to give the impression that the puppet regime has broadened its base and the introduction of a so-called non-party member to a ceremonial post is part of this game
 Their choice Haji Mohammad Tsamkani who has served as an MP during the time of the King and as the governor of Kunar during the time of Daud . is said to know- about the customs of the tribes and can get along with them easily
 The Soviets hope that his appoinment will decieve some people inside as well as outside Afghanistan
     0 mankind! LDe created you from a single (pair! of male and female, and made you into nations and tribes, that ye may know each other (not that you may despise each other)!. Uerily the most honored of you in the sight of God is (he mho is) the most righteous of you.                           S&i
     find God has full knowledge and is mell acquainted ( with all things)
                                                                Holy Quran ---
                    
--- (S. HUH. 13)    
 As far as inside is concerned this policy is out of date and does not suit the situation on the ground. This type of policy could have an effect when the confrontation is an internal problem, In the presence of Soviet forces in Afghanistan and a communist puppet regime these changes do not have any appeal to the majority of the people
 After more than seven years of war the people of Afghanistan are too politically aware to be decieved by names or blindly follow the decisions of some decieved tribal leaders The war has had its effect every where, including the tribal areas In the tribal areas although the tribal system still exists, the leadership has changed and the new leadership is more concious of their religious and national duties than some people guess
 It is also wrong to think that the whole Afghan community is ruled by tribal codes The Resistance is very strong deep inside the country The new dynamic leadership of the Resistance is much smarter than the puppets and even than the Godless Soviets themselves
 The Resistance in Afghanistan has a strong ideological base which should not be underestimated All the nationalities are pulled together by Islamic ideaiogy The Soviets are not in a position to disarm the the Resistance from their motives the liberation of Afghanistan and establishing an Islamic government Therefore all these efforts to change one puppet for another is doomed to failure People of Afghanistan know the real motives behind all these steps and can not be decieved A persian peom says
 Go and wear what color of clothes you like I recognize you from your style of walking
   AFGHAN NEWS_________YQLJUL_______NO. 24     15/12/1986_______PAGES
                                        GORBACHOV VISITED INDIA
 The Soviet leader paid a 4 day official visit to India starting from Nov, 25th Before beginning his visit, Gorbachov tried to disarm the mass media by saying that proximity talks under the auspices of the UN are making progress. He even vent further to say that the Soveit Union vas in favor of a free, independent and non-aligned Afghanistan with a friendly regime vith the USSR
 This last condition , the friendship of the regime in Kabul with the USSR reveals the true intentions of the Soviets in Afghanistan The Soviet leader wanted to say that the choice of leadership in Kabul lies with them not the people of Afghanistan
 Gorbachov also tried to decieve world opinion by saying that if America and Pakistan reciprocated the good-will of the USSR there would be a solution to the problem of * Afghanistan
 The world clearly knows how the Afghanistan problem was created by the Soviets. The . People of Afghanistan were opposing a regime which had come to power by a coup and was a dictatorship This was their internal problem
 In December 1979 the Soviets intervened in favor of a communist faction and a totally new situation was created Since that lime war has continued between the people of Afghanistan and the Red Army which is supported by a handful of domestic communists
 We do not see how the Soviets equate themselves with Pakistan and the USA in the war of Afgnanistan.If the Soviets call the humanitarian assistance to the refugees and voting for the UN resolutions intervention they could not^convince any wise and sound person
 When Gorbachov was in India he talked about the need to strengthen the UN organization We do not understand how an organization could be strenglhend if all the resolutions passed by the majority of its members is ignored by a super power member If the Soviet Union want to see in the UN, a body with no morality to criticize war-mongering powers then that is the end of the life of this body
 Rajiv, the prime minister of India welcomed Govbachov with a fanfare and praised him for his commitment to Peace He said Respect our Non-AlignmentO) we respect your commitment to peace!!)"
 The realities of Afghanistan expose the nature of both. Indian Non-Alignment and the Soviet commitment to peace
 In order to get more economic and military support India speaks against the principles of Non-Alignment and does not vote for the soft and un-named resolutions of the UN and other international fora which ask for the withdrawal of foreign (Soviet) troops from Non-Aligned Afghanistan To call yourself Non-Aligned and do not condemn the invasion of aNon-Alinged country is the paradox of Indian neutrality
 Similarly invading a country and the continuation of war for seven years killing half a million and driving out 5 million others is evidence of the commitment of the Soviet leaders to peace
 Another important feature of this trip was the extra ordinary security measues taken by the Indians and Soviets themselves 32 thousand Indian police force were not enough and Gorbachov brought 400 more with bullet proof cars Why do they feel so insecure? We have a saying traitor feels insecure' This is a new phenomenon for the Soviet leaders This is the price they are paying for their aggression in Afghanistan
 When Gorbachov left India the text of his speach in which he had attacked religious people was published in Moscow Attacks on religion,( Islam) is a sign of the frustration of the communist leader who is facing the opposition of faithful Muslims abroad and at
   AFfiflAN NEWS______VOL. II______m_Z4_______15/12/1986 PAGE 9
 home He knows that Islam is a big danger for his evil empire based on Godlessness and lack of respect for freedom of conscionse
 Finally sympathy of the Janata Party to the cause of the Afghans and their demonstration in front of the Soviet embassy in Delhi was appreciated by all the freedom fighters It proves that there are Indians who oppose aggression and defend the right of Nations to live freely
                               ANOTHER BONUS FOR THE COMMUNISTS
 ICRC has decided to open a hospital in Kabul to treat the puppet troups After securing the release of a dozen Soviet POWs in a one-sided deal this is a second humanitarian)!) step that ICRC have taken for the benefit of the Soviets and their puppets
 ICRC authorities are trying to give the impression that they have taken another positive step in their humanitarian field, While the treatment of wounded people from any side of the conflict is not something objectionable the way ICRC is doing it is questionable
 In the previous deal, some Soviet criminals were sent back to the Soviet Union but Mujahideen received nothing in return,A few months ago Mujahideen allowed them to meet some communist prisoners in Paktia province in return for nothing
 Now they have opened medical facilities for the puppets in Kabul without saying anything to the- Mujahideen in advance. The question is why this humanitrian organisation has limited its activities to Pakistan and occupied Kabul and do not do anything in the liberated areas of Afghanistan This way of dealing with the two sides of the conflict is biased towards the invaders and their puppets.
 The Soviets and their puppets have given permission for the ICRC to have medical activities in Kabul for political reasons and ICRC will be controlled strictly by the communists The argument made by ICRC that they treat non-communist as well goes againstthe reality of the situation in occupied Afghanistan. They have to do what the communists tell them
 The Afghan Resistance must speak from a responsible position and should say no to any one-sided deal The Resistance so far has done enough to show its good will and respect for humanitarian values The time has come for the Resistance to take into account the political implications of such deals. This is possible when decisions by the individual parties are stopped and the Alliance decides about the deals after a thorough study of the case
                   BLACK DAY
           27TH OF DECEMBER MARKS THE 7TH ANNIVERVSARY OF THE SOVIET INVASION OF
AFGHANISTAN