  Vol7, No 3                                             February 1,1991
 mUJAHIDEEn
 OPEN EMBASSY
  in SUDAN
       The Jami'at leader has returned from an official visit to Sudan during - which he opened the AIG Embassy in Khartoum.
       During his ten day visit to Sudan he was received by President Umar Hasan al-Bashir. He congratulated him for implementation of Sharia in Sudan. He also held talks with the Foreign Minister and other government officials of that country.
       Cooperation in educational and diplomatic fields between the Sudanese government and the AIG and current problems of Muslim world were fully discussed by the two sides. The government of Sudan has promised to give scholarships to some Afghan students in technical fields and higher education.
       Prof. Rabbani addressed a meeting of scholars and diplomats participating in seminar on 'people's diplomacy'. Scholars and diplomats from some Islamic countries also had taken part in the seminar.
       Jami'at leader talked to the students of Khartoum and Umdorman Universities and visited two people's defense training centers. The students were very keen to know about the struggle of Afghan Mujahideen.
       Prof. Rabbani's visit was fully covered by Sudanese radio, TV and press. Despite the Gulf conflict, Afghanistan was at the top of the news in media during his visit.
       As a sign of good-will, the Sudan President agreed to opening of the Mujahideen Embassy in Khartoum. The Embassy Was officially opened on January 23. The Sudan Foreign minister, Ali Ahmad Sahlool, was present on the occasion. This is the first embassy of the Mujahideen.
       The Sudan-Afghan Friendship Association was formed to promote friendship between the two people.
Afghan Jehad suffers from conflict in Gulf
     Habibur Rahman fa
     The outbreak of hostilities in Gulf has had a negative effect on the provision of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan refugees and media coverage of the Afghan conflict.
     Most of the Western relief organizations working for refugees in Pakistan have been temporarily closed, due to the evacuation of their foreign staff for security reasons. Although Arab relief organizations are still operating, their operations are at their lowest ebb ever due to anxiety about the Gulf war.
     One can find hardly any news in the papers or on the radio about the Afghan issue. The Gulf war dominates the media.
     The Mujahideen have remained calm about the war. Except for leaders of some minor Mujahideen groups, the Mujahideen leadership have not been very vocal against multinational forces' onslaught on Iraq.
     The Mujahideen position on the issue has been consistent They have opposed forcible occupation and then annexation of Kuwait by Saddam Husain. Despite being sympathetic to the Palestine cause, the Mujahideen do not see any link between the occupation of a small Islamic country by Iraq and the occupation of Palestine by Israel. The Mujahideen have been in favor of an Islamic solution of the conflict. The Islamic foreign ministers' conference was in session when Iraq occupied Kuwait and the Mujahideen representative in the conference was the first envoy to condemn the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and asked the OIC to take necessary steps for the liberation of Kuwait The Mujahideen, like other Muslims, are fiercely opposed the involvement of Israel in the conflict and have warned against any attempt by Israel to exploit the situation arising from the Gulf war. Of course Afghans are worried about the plight of millions ordinary Iraqis who suffer from the
 war.
     The Mujahideen had other reasons to resent occupation of Kuwait by Iraq. Saddam Hussain has been a close ally of the Kabul regime and did not oppose the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. Recently Iraq admitted funding the national reconciliation program of the Kabul regime and helping Najib to improve his dented Islamic image.
     While the Kuwait government did not have a clear pro-Mujahideen policy, the people of that country sympathized with Mujahideen and helped the resistance. The Saudi government, which has been a principle supporter of the Mujahideen, become a potential Iraqi target after the occupation of Kuwait
     The longer the Gulf war lasts, the more its negative effects will be felt by Afghans. The Gulf war has given new life to anti- Western feelings in Pakistan, host to more than three million Afghan refugees. This might result in reduction of humanitarian assistance from Western countries.
     Confrontation between the government and the opposition parties on the Gulf crisis could have a destabilizing affect on Pakistan. The refugees wil be the first people affected by undesirable developments of this political nature. In the North-West Frontier Province of Pakistan , the Awami National Party is in the forefront of the pro-Saddam campaign. This party has close ties with the Kabul regime. The majority of the Afghan refugees live in this province.
      The Kabul regime has condemned the allied attack on Iraq. Pro-Saddam demonstrations were held in Kabul. The Kabul regime has had good relations with Saddam and has been receiving funds form Baghdad. It also sees Kuwait as a supporter of the Mujahideen. Najib joined hands with' India to seek a political solution to the problem through the organization of non-aligned countries, an obvious at-Tum to pane (7J
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page
 diers and seized 8 Kalashnikov rifles on January 23 in Shindand District.
 •The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and destroyed one vehicle on January 23 on the Herat-Islam Qala road. Islam Qala is a town located on the border with Iran.
 •Fourteen enemy soldiers were killed and 30 wounded when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy air base in Shindand on January 25. The enemy suffered heavy material losses, the details of which are not known. Fighting between the two sides continued when this report was filed.
 Helmand Province
    The Mujahideen horn Jami’at killed 10 enemy soldiers and wounded 16 in Delaram District on January 18 and 19. An enemy ammunition dump was set on fire. More than 150 Mujahideen took part in the attack.
 Ghor Province
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed six regime militiamen and liberated 10 villages in Shahrak District on > anuary 5. Some Mujahideen were also killed in the operation.
    •Two enemy informers were captured in Chakhcheran, the provincial capital on January 11, Maulawi Mosa reported.
    Two Kalashnikov rifles and one pistol and some cash were recovered horn the many agents. They woe handed over to a Mujahideen court which sentenced diem to death. Maulawi Musa is Jami'at commander in Ghor Province.
 Kandahar Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy supply convoy in Shahr-i-Safa, destroying three trucks and capturing four tanks on January 15, Mullah Naqibullah reported.
    A considerable number of regime troops were killed in the attack.
    The soldiers accompanying the convoy, comprising of 38 trucks and 60 tanks, belonged to the Esmat, Jabar and Rashid Dostum militia bands. Esmat and Jabar are militia commanders in Kandahar and Rashid Dostum is a militia leader from Jawzjan Province.
    The convoy, which had started its journey from Kandahar on January 13, reached Qalat on January 19, covering a distance of 150 kilometers in one week.
    The Mujahideen continue to attack die enemy security posts between Shahr-i-Safa and Jaldak on Kandahar-Qalat road. Qalat, the provincial capital
 of Zabul, is besieged by the Mujahideen and was almost captured twice last year.
 Herat Province
    •An enemy officer and two soldiers were killed on January 8 when their car hit a land mine planted by the Mujahideen close to the city of Shindand District
    On the same day, the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and (me truck of the enemy and killed a number of enemy soldiers in Babaji area, outside the city of Herat The Mujahideen used heavy and light weapons in the attack.
 •An enemy soldier was killed and two woe injured when their vehicle hit a land mine in Sarkhaza road in Enjeel District on January 11. The land mine was planted by the Mujahideen on the road, which is heavily used by the enemy.
 •Five armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen of Ismail Khan in Zindajan district on January 13.
 •One enemy truck was destroyed and three soldiers were killed on January 18 when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy convoy on the Herat-Toorghundi road. Toorghundi is a border town through which arms and other supplies for the Kabul regime are brought from the Soviet Union.
 •The Mujahideen shot down a regime helicoper in Sahzak Pass, between Herat and Badghis, on January 21 using a Stinger missile, Ismail Khan reported. The pilot of the helicopter was killed. •The Mujahideen killed one militiaman and wounded another on January 21 near die city of Herat •The Mujahideen killed five communist soldiers and captured five others on January 22 in Babaji district of die city of Herat They seized one rocket launcher, one 14.6 mm gun and eight Kalashnikov rifles. One Mujahid was wounded in die operation.
 •The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed four enemy soldiers, captured two sol-
Faryab Province
The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed 10 regime soldiers and officers and wounded 10 others on January 9 when they attacked them in Pushtoon Koot District 10 kilometers from Maimana.
Two militia commanders and one KHAD (regime secret police) officer were among those killed in the attack.
Logar Province
    •Enemy aerial and rocket attacks against the Mujahideen continued on January 13 and 141 Skirmishes between the two sides in the Qala-i-Ahmad Zay area of Mohammad Aagha District about 40 kilometers south of Kabul, left 10 enemy soldiers dead. Two Mujahideen woe also killed in the operation.
    •The Mujahideen attacked regime security posts in the Qala-i-Dawlat area of Mohammad Aagha and inflicted considerable losses on the enemy on January 15. The enemy used heavy weapons against the Mujahideen.
Baghlan Province
    Tire Mujahideen foiled an enemy attempt to recapture the posts it lost earlier in Baghlan city on January 16 Commander Mullah Shams reported.
    The enemy casualties could not be estimated immediately. Two Mujahideen woe killed and three were injured.
    Mullah Shams is die Jami'at Island commander in Baghlan.
Jawzjan Province
    Two people were killed and material losses were inflicted on Qamreeq and Khyra villages in Aaqcha District on January 24 when the enemy fired ground-to-ground rockets into the villages.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page ©


the sages
Even friendship has its limits
    There was once a man who was a champion wrestler. He had mastered 360 holds and tricks, and used a different one every day of the year. It so happened that he was fond of one of his students, and taught him all his tricks except one. He kept on postponing the day when he would teach him the last trick.
    The boy grew in strength and skill, and no one among his contemporaries was able to challenge him. One day, he boasted in front of the king: " My teacher is unchallenged only because he is older than me and because I respect him as my teacher. Otherwise, my strength is not less than his and my skill is quite equal to his.”
    The king did not appreciate this boasting and ordered a match to take place. They cleared the broad wrestling ground and gathered ministers, courtiers and sportsmen to watch.
    The boy charged out into the ring like a mad elephant. His master knew that his pupil was now stronger than him, so he used the 360th hold that he
 had never taught him. The boy did not know how to counter it. He was helpless. His master raised him with both hands above his head and smashed him to the ground. The crowd cheered wildly.
     The king congratulated the champion mid ordered a robe of honor to be given to him. He reproached the boy, saying: " You were ill-bred enough to dare to challenge your teacher and now you see how hollow your boast was!"
     The boy answered: ” O lord of the world! He did not overpower me with his strength but rather because of one trick which he never accepted to teach me. Today this one trick gave him the victory."
     The king retorted: " It was just for such a day that he had kept this trick! Have you not heard what the wise say? ' Never give a friend such power over you that if one day he tries to be your enemy, he can defeat you.'"
     The teacher betrayed by his pupil said:" There is no such thing as loyalty in this world, or at least no one today knows the meaning of loyalty. Whoever learned a trick from me, finally tried to do me down."
Aid worker lauds Afghans patience
    An American aid worker praises the patience and steadfastness of Afghan people in facing difficulties and attributes it their Islamic belief.
    Robert Dole, head of a relief organization, has returned from a factfinding mission to Afghanistan, and told VOA that the people are facing an extremely difficult economic situation. Thousands of people in Badghis and Faryab suffer from malnutrition and diseases resulting from the war.
    Praising their endurance and patience, he said if Afghans were not Muslim they would have gone crazy
 because of the hardships they face.
     He said if a Westerner had faced similar difficulties he would have committed suicide. But the Afghans' belief in Islam has given them extra-ordinary strength, said Dole.
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
    Two are better than one, three than two.
    Meaning: Two minds are better than one, and three than two.
                   Cm
                                                  ♦CmI jSty l)lj
     A wise enemy is better than a foolish friend.
     Meaning: Seek good advice no matter what its source.
                                                                                                                     bj (I JaI diS Ik* C JiaI
     There is no fault in a noble person while ignoble person has no fidelity.
     Meaning: True blue will never stain.
    Grandmother died and her fever ended.
    Meaning: Death is the end of all; or, he that dies pays all debts.
 Missiles kill six people
    Six people were killed and five were injured by an incoming rocket in the city on January 19, Kabul Radio reported. The report accused Mujahideen of attacking civilian targets.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1, 1991, page ®



                O. Box 264, Peshawar- Patriatao ’fl If           Teh (0521) 41381, FAJW0S2I) 42410 j
i__________________________       -.____________j
 Regime's national reconciliation ignored by majority of Afghans
    The Kabul regime recently celebrated the fourth anniversary of the declaration of National Reconciliation. To mark the occasion, meetings were held in Kabul and Moscow; regime radio and TV, as well as Soviet media, broadcast special programs and some prisoners were granted amnesty.
    The Soviet and regime media boasted of the achievements of national reconciliation, claiming that 50 coalition administrative units have been formed in different parts of Afghanistan; 120,000 armed Mujahideen have joined the regime; 325,000,refugees have returned home and 75 per cent of all commanders have abandoned armed struggle because of this program.
    The Soviets introduced national reconciliation in 1986 to add a.political dimension to the war. When they invaded Afghanistan in 1979, they thought that their operation would be a police action of short duration. This proved wrong and despite the massive use of force, the Afghan resistance was not subdued. After Gorbachev came to power, he intensified the war to defeat the Mujahideen and get rid of what he described as ’the bleeding wound'. Like his three predecessors he failed. He then introduced national reconciliation which was aimed at weakening the resistance at home and reducing world sympathy for them.
    To begin with, the Soviets replaced Babrak Karmal with Najib, the then head of the secret police of the regime, KHAD. Communist slogans were set aside; religious slogans were introduced and money was distributed lavishly to buy the loyalty of Mujahideen. In order to improve the image of Najib, a fake parliamentary system was introduced and a constitution was adopted.
    As long as the Soviet troops were present in Afghanistan, national reconciliation failed to lure Mujahideen towards the regime, and failed to generate outside sympathy for the regime, which was considered a tool of Moscow. After the Soviet troop withdrawal, national reconciliation took the form of a proposal for a coalition government, in which communists and Mujahideen would take part No major Mujahideen group has joined the regime or is ready to deal with it. Sell-outs by a few Mujahideen groups here and there have been caused by local rivalries and financial attractions rather than calculated political choices, as the regime claims. Kabul's declarations that 120,000 armed Mujahideen have defected are highly exaggerated, as are claims regarding the return of the refugees. Some refugees might have returned to liberated areas, but others have left the country, and the trend in no way bears out the success of the national reconciliation program. Stalemate on the battlefield does not mean the majority of the Mujahideen have stopped fighting the Kabul regime and have accepted national reconciliation. It involves other reasons: logistical problems, political problems among the Mujahideen and the change in the nature of the war. Mujahideen groups are united in opposition to the Kabul regime.,
    Najib's talk of political pluralism, while he runs a fraction of the country with the help of his secret police, army and militia forces, is a farce. Lip service toward a market economy, in a country devastated by the Soviet war machine, is designed to interest outsiders.
    The program has met with some success outside Afghanistan. The world’s desire to find political solutions to regional issues has been used by Najib, who offers dialogue and power-sharing with his opponents. But a lot of people outside Afghanistan know that he is responsible for much Afghan misery.
    The national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of the resistance. Not only this, it has also failed to stop infighting within the regime itself. National reconciliation has no chance of success because the gap between the communist regime and the Mujahideen is so wide that it cannot be bridged by cosmetic changes. The only way out of the present situation is the dismissal of the Kabul regime from power, allowing Afghans to decide their own future.
Soviets plunder Afghanistan gas
    A Mujahideen commander has said that Soviet experts are involved in extraction of natural gas in Afghanistan and its export to the Soviet Union.
    Experts say the Soviet Central Asian republics suffered from an Afghan natural gas cut because Soviet Union is exporting its own natural gas to Western Europe to get hard cash.
    Export of natural gas, which was stopped immediately after the Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989, is supposed to be resumed in the near future. Natural gas is found in Jawzjan Province close to the Soviet border.
    The experts say resumption of natural gas exports might have been prompted by the Soviet economic difficulties rather the needs of the Kabul regime.
    Official figures showed that gas exports to the Soviet Union in 1985 reached 2500 million cubic meters per year, but Western sources say the actual figure might be four times higher. Meters for measuring natural gas are installed inside Soviet territory, making it difficult to know the exact amount of gas exported to that country.
    Moscow pays 12 US dollars for each 1000 cubic meters of Afghan gas. This price is much less than the price of gas in the open market and lower than the price Moscow receives for exports of natural gas to Europe. Furthermore, Moscow does not pay hard cash for Afghan gas. The gas is bartered for military hardware, usually second-hand and food given to the Kabul regime.
Bessmetnykh Soviet Foreign Minister
    Alexander Bessmetnykh, a career diplomat, has been appointed as the new Soviet Foreign Minster.
    He replaces Edward Shevardnadze who resigned in December because of internal opposition to his policies.
    Bessmetnykh was appointed as the Soviet Ambassador to Washington in May 1990 and before that he served as a Deputy Foreign Minister of USSR.
     Bessmetnykh was not directly involved in negotiation about Afghanistan before his Washington post But after assuming office in Washington, he led the Soviet delegation in the talks between US and USSR experts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 3, February 1,1991, page ©
Lack of money forces AIG to reduce its staff by half
    Financial problems have breed the Afghan Interim government (AIG) to reduce he size of most of its minis-ries. About 4,000 Afghans lost their jobs as a result of this decision.
    The ministries of health and education will function as before and the ministries of information and finance will be reduced to half of their present capacity. Other ministries will have only a handful of officers.
    Sources closes to the AIG say that the donor countries have reduced their financial assistance to the AIG forcing it to take the unpopular decision of dismissing half its officials. Since this de-: cision was taken immediately after the outbreak of war in Gulf, those hostilities may have prompted it But the AIG has been facing financial problems for several months.
    The dismissed AIG officials face tremendous problems. Most of them live in the city and have to pay house rent and feed their families. Some had left low-paying jobs to join the AIG, which offered higher salaries than the parties. The parties will be forced to help them on humanitarian grounds because most of them are not receiving any of the assistance given to the registered refugees in the camps.
    Reduction of assistance to the AIG is a reflection of donors’ dissatisfaction with its performance. Failure to broaden its base and take proper political and
 military initiatives may be among the reasons for reduction of assistance to the AIG.
     Peter Tomsen, US envoy to the Afghan resistance, denied reports of a reduction in American assistance to the Mujahideen, calling it anti- American propaganda. He said the Gulf crisis had had no effect on US assistance to the Mujahideen. Despite his assurances, it is obvious that the AIG is getting less money than before; if there is no reduction in the scale of American assistance, the aid must now be flowing through different channels.
     Saudi Arabia and the United States are the two main donors of aid to the AIG.
     The Kabul regime described the event as a sign of the Mujahideen's political failure. The move might give a similar impression to ordinary Afghans at home and abroad. But it is worth mentioning that those ministries of the AIG affected by the austerity move were of symbolic importance and had practically no work to do.
     The AIG was formed in February 1989 immediately after the Soviet troop withdrawal. The idea behind its creation was to provide an alternative to the Kabul regime which was expected to fall. The AIG faced serious problems when it failed to broaden its base and play a leading role in resistance military effortsi Despite all its difficulties it will continue to exist until an alternative is found for it
Regime's militia general dies
    Esmat Muslim, the leader of one of the most famous militia groups of the Kabul regime, has died of illness, Radio Kabul reported.
    Esmat was a Mujahideen commander in Kandahar area before he joined the Kabul regime and turned his gun against them. His men not only operate in Kandahar, but are also in-/------------------1-------------"n
  Anwari's brother dies
     Sayyed Mahmood Anwari, the younger brother of Commander Anwari, died of a heart attack in Islamabad on January 15.
     He began armed struggled against the communists in 1978 and participated in many military operations in Ghorband Valley and around Kabul. Mahmood was bom 38 years ago in Shaikh Ali of Ghorband District. He has left behind a widow and four children.
       A memorial service was held on January 19, which a large number of refugees attended. Shaikh Asif Mohsini, Haraka Islmi leader, was the main speaker in the meeting.
 volved in fighting in Kabul and some other parts of Afghanistan.
     IBs band is famous for gun running, looting, rape and violence. His men fought a gun battle with Najib’s soldiers in Kabul some years ago when Najib was opening a conference. Several people died and Muslim himself was injured. He was taken to Soviet Union for treatment. This incident caused a lot of embarrassment for Najib, who had promoted Muslim to die rank of a General.
     It is said that Muslim was a supporter of Babrak Karmal, the former leader of the regime. Although the regime says he died naturally, Najib's involvement in his death cannot be ruled out. There is a strong rivalry between Najib and Babrak and each has his own faction within the PDPA, which was recently renamed as the Homeland Party to disguise its communist nature.
 Ipenrin.i^fovp the
 fered a heart attack. Pavlov was the Finance faster tn RishkovV cabinet
 mm
 mitories, MEDIA reported; H
 If. .T®||ii|nts con^lah^
 |^>d.                      I
 University since the communist coupl
 |l|978r.:•lISIllC'l
 I: Mohammad -Nc^m Kfghan, who had won first position] in fWian language! [and literature from Peshawar! Universe has |ew recently^-aw^l ed a gold medal for iu$ ^
 HiM
 [Education Faculty of Jehad] [University and writes articles for! [Mujahideen papers,         I
 ■ Ajmal Khattak has bilriappdoti ed the president of A warm National] Party.. He is a member of Pakistan National Assembly. Ajmal Khattak I
|has liyi^dL many years m Kabul Wa| |ii^itk^i refugee and hast dose ties, with the communist regime of N^jibullah. He and his colleagues left; [Kabul ■ afteir' the Soviet 'iobp with-j Idrawal from Afghanistamwf^^J

    Mohammad Nawaz Sharif,
 the. Gulf war and dm station in
 K#f Iran and' Tta&ey Arab cotm*rie$ during his recent toii|| of the region. The main pwposeof h»s trip, called a peace mission, was to find a political solution to the Gulf! crisis.                         : jijj'’
 | Soviet Government has said] [ d«pp|^el: •             aid to;
 kMnjahideen would be fire first step
 tween the two countries*           ■
      Moscow provides asstetanee to' tegime and does not item : stdier                       nlsp||
 The Najibullah regime was brought:
 to power by dm Red Army. ■
 k__________________________________J
AFGHANews Vol7, No 3, February 1,1991, page ®
A journey to Panjshir and Bamyan
    Lars Grahnstrom
    In 1987, when I first travelled to Panjshir, the route went via Nuristan. I had to cross five high passes and reached Paryan, upper part of Panjshir, after a 13-day walk.
    This autumn, I crossed the first pass with a car reaching half way down on the Afghan side. I went to Paryan via Top Khana and Anjuman in less than four days..
    In 1987, you could see some civilians living in the upper part of the Panjshir Valley. In the rest of the valley, there were Soviet bases and around them woe Qarargahs, the Mujahideen bases. Most of civilian population had left and lived as internal refugees outside the valley.
    In autumn 1988, I was back in Panjshir. The last Soviet and Kabul regime soldiers had just left the valley. Panjshir was free, over the destroyed mosque in Rukha waved a green flag. Everywhere in the valley, the Mujahideen walked with their weapons. Many villages were totally destroyed, the rest were partially destroyed.
    When I arrived to Panjshir this October, much had changed. Panjshir was peaceful and quiet. I saw only one Mujahid with his Kalashnikov in the bazaar. In every Qarargah there were 3 or 4 Mujahideen with weapons for security, die rest of the weapons were locked up in the Qarargahs. The reason for this was that Panjshir is free; there is no enemy in the valley and a lot of weapons in the hands of the people can cause accidents. Many of the Mujahideen from Panjshir now serve in the Islamic army of Masood.
    I felt very safe in Panjshir. There wore no checkpoints in the valley (except one at the mouth of the valley near Gulbahar) and not a lot of young boys with weapons. People were very friendly and I could walk freely wherever I wanted. I even walked by myself from Bazarak to Rukha at night without any problem.
    Still most of the houses were in ruins, but the positive sign for me was to see that there were some new and repaired houses in every village. I saw people working in their houses or on the fields. In Khench there was a big bazaar with many shops along the road. On the roads, traffic was heavy. Jeeps, trucks and buses went to Kabul.
    The Russians never managed to get to the upper part of Panjshir, Parian. One reason was that there was no road after Dasht-i-Rewat In 1988,1 heard that the Reconstruction
 Committee of Panjshir had planned to build a road to Parian. I had walked that road one year before and laughed at the news of building of road and said it was impossible; maybe in ten years, they could build the road. But, I was wrong! The road to Parian was finished in a year. I travelled on it with a lorry this year. It was not a good road, but it made it possible to get to Dasht-i-Rewat in less than two hours.
     The Reconstruction Committee has a plan to construct a road connecting Panjshir to to Andarab valley. The road will link Panjshir to northern Afghanistan. The committee also wants to extend the Panjshir road to Anjuman in Badakhshan and then to Pakistan. It is a big project The problem seems lack of money, bulldozers and rock drills. But after I have seen the work on the road in Panjshir, I do not say it is impossible.
     In some villages in Panjshir many refugees have returned, in others only a few families have come. Almost all the returned refugees have crane from Kabul. The situation in Kabul is uncertain. They preferred to return to Panjshir even if they had no houses. Only a few refugee families have returned from Pakistan.
To Bamyan
     From Panjshir I continued my trip via Gulbahar, Salang and Ghorband to Bamyan. There, I saw a different political situation. Different parties had established checkpoints along the road. We were stopped by Hezb-i-Islami, Harakat-i-Islami, Jami'at and some other parties. You could feel the tension between die parties. But I think the situation was more quiet this year than last year, when I travelled through same route.
     Compared to Panjshir, Bamyan is not much destroyed by the war. The former government buildings on a hill are destroyed, but not much more. The area seemed rather poor and not so developed as Panjshir.
     Political situation in the centra of Bamyan was really confusing. I was told that in Bamyan you could find all political parties of Afghanistan, both Sunni and Shia, and also some local parties. Everywhere I saw the signboards of the different parties. All the parties are said to be united in the shura (council) of Bamyan. This shura is responsible only for the bazaar and Bamyan center. My impression is that this shura cannot do much and is losing influence.
    Two-third of the population of Bamyan are Hazaras, belonging to Shia school of Islam. The influence of the newly created Hezb-i-Wahdat seemed to grow in Bamyan, especially in the western part of the province Hezb-i-Wahdat is a unity of . several Shia parties. On the way to Ghorband, in Laulanj, I saw some clashes between Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini).
    On the road to Hajigak Pass, Hezb i-Wahdat seemed well-established. Last year there were a checkpoints from different parties but this year there was only one post belonging to Hezb-i-Wahdat
    Although Bamyan has been free for two years and Kabul is far away, there were a lot of armed Mujahideen everywhere. I did not feel safe in Bamyan. At night or even in the even ings you could not go to the bazaar without being stopped by young boys who aimed Kalashnikovs at your chest asking who you were, where you were going and why.
    Everyone I met with considered the conflicts between different resis lance parties as the main obstacle on the way of victory on the Communists regime and return of peace. Most people, both Mujahideen and civilians, were tired of war. But almost everyone I talked with said that the war had to continue as long as Najibullah re mained in Kabul. They could never ac cept communists in the government. The general view was that the war would continue more than one year.
 Resistance Schools
    One of my tasks during this trip was to monitor schools supported by the Swedish Committee of Afghanistan in Panjshir, Bamyan and along the road. I always get pleasure when I visit schools in Afghanistan. There is great enthusiasm for schools and education. I am impressed by the students who study in outdoor classes or in cold classrooms. Three or four of them share a text book. I am also impressed by their teachers who sometimes do not get salaries for months, and by the old men in the bazaar who asks why their village doesn't get a school.
    The problems of schools and education are often the same everywhere.
    •Lack of good school buildings: Many schools hold their classes in mosques and private houses. Most schools in Panjshir were destroyed during die war. In Bamyan, some were destroyed and others are used as offices
                                          AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page O
 for Mujahideen parties or the UN.
     •      Lack of trained teachers: There has been no good education inside Afghanistan for the last 12 years. Many of the teachers have only 10 to
  1 years of education. Some educated teachers do jobs other than teaching. There is lack of educated persons in Afghanistan. In Panjshir, the Mujahideen do a lot to educate the teachers. They have build a special hall lor teachers* seminar in Rukha.
     •      Lack of money: The Swedish Committee is one of the biggest organizations sponsoring more than 500 schools all over Afghanistan. But this is only a part the schools that need assistance. There are 64 schools in Panjshir alone. Out of them 16 are sup-x>rted by the Swedish Committee, some others , by other relief organizations and the rest by the Mujahideen themselves. In Panjshir, the salaries for teachers and schoolbooks donated by relief organizations are divided among all schools in the valley.
     Money is also needed for teacher’s training programs and for building new schools. The Mujahideen should discuss the future of their schools and educational activities. There are increasing demand for new schools without any increase in foreign aid for education.
    Lars Grahnstrdm is a Swedish freelance journalist who completed his fifth trip to Afghanistan this autumn to cover the war from the Mujahideen side.
 Gulf conflict
        from page (1)
 tempt draw attention away from Pakistan's peace efforts launched by Nawaz Sharif seeking a solution through the OIC. Kabul Radio’s reporting of the Gulf war is different from Moscow Radio's. The regime paints a pro-Saddam picture oif the military operation.
    The most interesting development related to the Gulf war is re-emergence of the worldwide anti-war movement This movement was very active during the Vietnam war. When Afghanistan was invaded by Soviet Union, the movement did not show any reaction When Afghans asked where was the anti-war movement, they were told that it was a 1960s phenomenon. This movement became active after the Allied forces launched air attacks against Iraq. When Iraq invaded Iran in 1979 and occupied Kuwait last summer the anti-war movement ignored them.
    AFGHANews is a great help for us. Some of your articles are republished in our journal, Le Croissant We shall publish, Inshallah, Commander Ahmad Shah Masood's interview published in AFGHANews and perhaps also the communique of the Council of Commanders.
    Mohammad R. Holican Port- Louis - Mauritius
    Thank you very much for your news bulletin. It plays a vital role in providing information about the Afghan Jehad. We pray for your success.
    Mohammad Iqba Arakan - Burma
    I received the last two issues of AFGHANews. We deeply appreciate this service and will do our best to ze-rox these issues and circulate them to our Muslim brothers and sisters. It is very inspiring to read of the progress of your Jehad and to witness the slow but sure liberation of your country from the grip of communists.
    Abdul Bari Pendleton, IN - USA
     I receive AFGHANews regularly but I am often disappointed with what I read in it. I know that Mujahideen take money and arms from Americans to fight Russians. As an Arab and a Muslim, I advise Afghans to support Saddam Hussain. They need a strong man like Saddam to lead them.
     Auzanna Atallah Newcastle, NSW- Australia
     I enjoy reading AFGHANews. Some articles seem quite frank, admitting problems where problems exist There are major questions that remain, however. If problems of dissension continue within the resistance, how can they be solved? This must be openly addressed.
     PaulOveby Portland, OR - U.S.A
     I appreciate receiving AFGHANews. It is the most informative paper I read about Afghanistan. It is not hill of the propaganda and empty words that you see in some of the other party papers.
     Lars Grahnstrom Soderhman - Sweden
                                  Oh! CoveCy Afghanistan
                                      Abd-er-Rahmane Thami
 Flowers holding the white snow While a candle burns low.
 It is cold! It is high!
 Oh! lovely Afghanistan Eternal Beauty.
 A dove flew to the top of the hill Above the cemetery.
 Many children were at the graves Crying for their beloved dead. Suddenly a chill crawled up My spine and a river flowed from my tears.
 Dawn in the wounded valley Children were crying and Their faces were covered with tears. They have lost many friends.
 Killed by toy bombs sown by Soviet planes.
 A doll! a toy!
 Instead of making you happy They make you cry and die.
 Let us pray Allah Akbar!
 Let your children hear their cries.
 As the night feU the darkness filled The sky and silence became the enemy of the night
 Then, not silence, but detonations Wounding the beauty of the valley, detonations of mine explosions Killing children.
 Martyrs!
 Martyrs of the renewal of hope Their light shines now upon the darkness of the world.
 Darkness of the fallen Soviet regime May your martyrdom not be in vain Allah Akbar!
 ( The poet, a Berber from North Africa, lives in Seattle, Washington.)
 Courtesy: New Trend
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 3, February 1,1991, page @
Iranian journalist says:
People of Kabul hate
                            s regime
     An Iranian journalist says the ordinary people in Kabul still consider Najibullah to be a Soviet puppet
     Mohammad RizaFurqani, who recently returned from his third trip to Kabul, told Danishjo, a weekly published by the students' branch of Jami'at Islami in Tehran, that the Kabul regime's efforts to win the support of the people have failed and the majority of people do not consider it an independent Afghan government.
     Furqani met with many ordinary people during his stay in Kabul. They expressed worry about the infighting in the ruling party. These differences, he said, have taken a new twist with the alignment of factions along linguistic grounds. Divisions have been expressed openly since Tanai's coup and his alliance with Hikmatyar.
     He said he thought the ordinary people in Kabul had good feelings towards the Mujahideen and that they were disappointed over the lack of unity among them. The commanders' meeting on Badakhshan border, however, had made people in Kabul more hopeful of a Mujahideen victory.
     About the economic situation in Kabul, Furqani said the conditions were no different from past except for soaring prices of food and fuel. One kilogram of meat was sold for 900 Afghanis and a liter of petrol for 400 (700 Afghanis make One US dollar). For a family which has a monthly income of 5000 Afghanis life must be extremely difficult The Kabul regime gave food and fuel to its officials at subsidized prices. Families with no government jobholders and low incomes faced great difficulties.
     Furqani was surprised by the Soviet resolve to feed the Kabul regime while food rationing was imposed in some Soviet cities. "I was in Kabul when I heard about shortages of food supplies in the Soviet Union. "Moscow asked for food assistance and the Germany was die first country to help. I was a witness to landing of many transport planes bringing food to Kabul I was surprised. How can the Soviet Union give that food to Kabul while it was facing food shortages at home?" he asked.
     Furqani said this showed the importance that the Soviets gave to the survival of the Kabul regime. If Soviet economic and military support is cut
 the Kabul regime cannot survive for long, Furqani said.
     Furqani's last visit to Kabul was in connection with an International Seminar’ to commemorate the one thousandth birthday of Ferdausi, a great Persian poet. The seminar was sponsored by UNESCO and was mainly attended by Russian and regime scholars. Three Iranians also took part in the seminar, including Furqani, non of whom were experts on the subject
     Furqani said although the event was a cultural gathering, the Kabul regime wanted to exploit it for political reasons. But the regime failed to exploit it politically because no foreign scholar, except Russians, took part in the seminar; he added.
     Furqani is in favor of cultural contacts with Kabul because it serves the interest of the two people, Iran and Afghanistan, who share a common language, religion and culture.
     He said the people in Kabul showed a great desire for reading books. Enough books are not available in the country. Iran must meet the need of the people for books, he suggested. He said an exhibition of Iranian bodes will be opened soon in Kabul.
     The people in Kabul showed their displeasure with Najibullah's government by boycotting state-run book shops and buying books from private shops at higher prices.
     Furqani met with Commander Masood in Peshawar before he went to Kabul. He found Masood a clever and pragmatic leader. He said Masood has the ability to rally the Mujahideen commanders around himself.
     Furqani, during his visit to Peshawar, found the Mujahideen commanders very determined to carry on Jehad despite shortage of military supplies and shrinking outside support to the resistance. He described it a positive thing. The negative aspect of the resistance, however, was the differences between Mujahideen groups.
     He believes that a political approach will solve the Afghan issue quicker than a military approach. "The Mujahideen have a better chance to win the war politically. From talking to people in Kabul I have reached the conclusion that the Mujahideen would win a secret poll, and that the Kabul regime has no chance of winning an election," he said.
CBR builds five health clinics
    The Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR) has began building five clinics in Panjshir and Takhar. The project, costing about 250,000 US dollars, is funded by World Health Organization (WHO), the CBR chief told AFGHANews.
    Engineer Kamaluddin, the executive chief of CBR, said WHO has agreed to fund construction of 17 clinics in the area. The construction of five clinics is the first phase of the project
    CBR was founded seven months ago as a non-profit organization and supervised by a nine-member board erf directors. It has a head office in Peshawar and three field offices, in Chitral, Panjshir and Taliqan, Takhar. All its office bearers and field officers are Afghans. The organization has the support of many Mujahideen organizations including the Supervisory Council, Shia fronts and others, as well as commanders from various political parties.
    Before the formation of CBR, Kamaluddin was the head of the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council. He has been involved in the construction of roads, canals, bridges and hospitals in Panjshir.
    Kamaluddin said the clinics under construction are of two types: four-room and six-room. He said the building materials like wood and cement will be prepared from inside. The project provides jobs for the local work force.
    He said CBR is eager to start work in other parts of Afghanistan. He said the Gulf war was creating problems for his woik because the foreign staff of most of the Western aid organizations with whom he had negotiated for funding his projects have left Peshawar.
                                                   ?{e(p us pu6Cisfi
                                               PUasc send your donations to the fotfozoiri# account number:
                                                          :rzrttw
                                                   Account ^(p. 73$-37 MaBiB ‘Bank.Ltd. ‘IchkpC'BaCa, Peshawar Pakistan
Vol 7, No 4                                          February 15,1991
AlG sends
TROOPS TO
SAUDI ARBI*
     Hie Afghan Interim Government (AIG) sent 300 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia, on February 8 to fight under the command of Saudi Arabia.
     Immediately after the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, the Saudi Government asked the AIG to send troops to that country to defend it against a possible Iraqi invasion. The AIG cabinet decided to send 2,000 Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia but the dispatch of the fighters was delayed due to difficulties in getting travel documents.
     The outbreak of war in Gulf has changed the position of some of the AIG leaders. Prof, Sayyaf is now opposed to sending Mujahideen fighters to Saudi Arabia. MIDIA, the official news agency of the AIG, giving the news of sending troops, said the decision to send Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia was taken by Mujaddidi, the President of AIG, and a few other leaders. It also published a statement by Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minsiter of AIG, in which he opposed sending Mujahideen because of the presence of Western troops in the Kingdom. .
     Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb Islami, has called sending Mujahideen troops to Saudi Arabia an act of treason.
     The row over this issue indicates the delicate situation the Mujahideen are facing. The Saudi Government has been quite generous in giving material assistance to the Mujahideen, especially to Prof. Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, am is one of the four countries which has recognized the AIG.
     But the defiant mode of the Islamic movements towards the pres ence of Western forces in the Gulf is putting pressure on those parties of the Afghan resistance which are labeled by the Western media as fundamentalists The position taken by some
                                                          Turn to page (4 )
Earthquake, floods kill hundreds of Afghans
     Earthquake in the northeast and floods in the southwest of Afghanistan have killed or wounded hundreds of Afghans and have destroyed thousands of houses*
     The earthquake which shook north-east Afghanistan on February 2 measured 6.8 on the Richter scale and its epicenter was about 200 kilometers north-east of Kabul. The preliminary information gathered by the Supervisory Council of Janii'at gives the following account of casualties and losses of property:
     I Six people were killed, 15 were injured and more than 300 houses were destroyed in Panjshir, Kapisa Province.
     I Nine people were injured and 21 houses were destroyed in Pachaghan, a side valley in Nejrab District, Kapisa Province.
     I Five people were killed, two were injured and 19 houses were destroyed in Andarab District, Baghlan Province.
     I Five people were killed, 20 were injured, 100 houses were destroyed and a large number of livestock were killed in Nahrin District, Baghlan Province.
     I Thirty people woe killed; 90 woe . injured, 1100 houses were destroyed and 600 cattle were killed in Farkhar District, Takhar Province.
     I Ten people were killed and 60 houses were destroyed in Mazar-i-Sharif, Balkh Province.
     I Nine people were killed, 44 were injured, 550 houses and six mosques were destroyed, 1054 houses were dam-aged and 212 cattle were killed in Khost-o-Fering District, Baghlan Province.
     According to another source ten people were killed and a large number of houses were destroyed in Kunar Province.
     Due to heavy snowfall and slow communications, reports of casualties and losses from the remote areas have not been received yet.
     The regime was quick in giving
 news of casualties but figures given sixteen hours after the earthquake shows that the Tosses in the govem-emnt-controlled cities are light. According to the regime account, the earthquake killed one person and destroyed 14 houses in Kabul In Pul-i-Khumri, Baghlan Province, three people died, eight were injured and 40 houses were damaged. Thirty houses were destroyed in Faizabad, Badakhshan, and one person was injured in Jalalabad. Due to the regime's limited control over territory and existence of wireless communications between regime centers, the figures given above could show the limit of the destruction in the cities.
     The earthquake added to the misery of Afghans,who were already suffering from high prices and fuel shortages during the harshest winter in 25 years.
     Ahmad Shan Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, has asked international relief organizations andthe UN to assist the victims of the earthquake immediately.
     the Kabul regime was quick to exploit the natural disaster to get financial support from international organizations and pose as the spokesman of al Afghans. But Masood has said the Kabul regime has no access to the liberated areas and cannot be a channe for aid. Responding to the regime request, the UN has provided 30,000 dollars for earthquake victims.
     The earthquake killed more than 200 people in Pakistan's North West Frontier Province, injured more than 500 and destroyed up to 4000 houses The quake was also felt in some Soviet Central Asian Republics, causing material losses. Many mud huts of Afghan refugees were destroyed in the earthquake but there were no figures available for the refugees.
     The four provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Farah and Nimroz in southwest Afghanistan were hit by flood Turn to page (3)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ©
Battlefields
Herat Province
    •     Two soldiers and one officer of the Kabul regime were killed when the Mujahideen attacked their positions in Khwaja Kala area on January 21.
    •     Four enemy troops were killed when the Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into a regime armored division's area in Herat on January 25.
    t Three enemy personnel, including a junior militia commander, were captured on January 28 in Rebat-i-Kakarha village. The Mujahideen seized two guns.
    •     A regime officer was killed and a security post was destroyed whom the Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Kandahar Gate of the city of Herat on January 29.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen killed six soldiers and inflicted heavy material losses oh them while attacking the Armored Division and Core headquarters of the regime with ground-to-ground rockets.
    •     The Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan destroyed an enemy track on February 9 on Herat-Toorghundi road, killing two officers and capturing one. They seized four Kalashnikov rifles in die operation, which was launched to block the road.
    •Six armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at on February 3. The soldiers were stationed in the security posts of Herat Cement Factory.
    •     The Mujahideen killed Abdul Jalil, a well-known regime militia commander, on February 2 in Deza Village of Guzra District.
    •     Fifteen soldiers were killed, 30 were wounded and heavy material losses were inflicted on the enemy when the Mujahideen attacked Shindand air base with heavy ground-to-ground
 rockets on January 25.
 Badghis Province
    One enemy helicopter was shot down in Kushk-i-Kohna Sub-District killing all its crew on January 26. The helicopter was on a bombing mission when it was hit with a missile.
 sonnel returned to Kandahar and some to Kalat. The posts were established some weeks ago to provide security for a convoy taking supplies from Kandahar to Kalat
    The Kabul regime was able to do it because of severe cold preventing the Mujahideen from putting up effective resistance
 Farah Province
    The Mujahideen destroyed six tanks and 15 trucks of the enemy in Toot-o-Chakaw area on January 22 killing or wounding an unspecified number of the enemy troops.The vehicles were part of supply convoy of the Kabul regime.
    Six Mujahideen were killed and 16 Mujahideen were wounded by the enemy heavy weapons fire in this operation . Two of the Mujahideen's recoilless rifles were destroyed by enemy artillery fire.
Chore Province U?ar Pr0!inc<:
    •      The Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and wounded 16 on February 7 when they attacked the enemy tribal battalion in Dawlat Yar area. Two Mujahideen were killed and six wounded.
    •      The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed five enemy soldiers and wounded nine in Chekhcharan, the provincial capital. Three Mujahideen were also killed.
    •      The Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed five enemy soldiers and wounded eight soldiers in Sootak area near Chekhcharan on January 29. Four soldiers were captured and ten light weapons seized in the operation.
 Kandahar Province
    •      The Mujahideen destroyed an enemy tank with 75mm gun on Kalat-Kandahar road killing its eight occupants on January 30.
    •      Thirty-seven militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen in Shahr-i-Safa, on Kandahar-Kalat road, on January 22, Mullah Naqibullah reported.
    They brought with them 35 Kalashnikov rifles and two rocket launchers. The militiamen belonged to Rashid Dostom group known as Jawzjanis. i
    •      All the newly-established regime security posts along the Kandahar-Kalat highway were abandoned on February 9. Most of its per-
 Four regime officers and 12 mili tiamen belonging to Kayan group were killed on February 9 when the Mujahideen attacked their positions in Pul-e-Kandahari area of Mohammad Agha District, MIDIA reported. The Mujahideen captured eight Kalashnikov rifles, two rocket launch ers, one P.K and two Grenov machine-guns from the enemy.
 Ghazni Province
    The Mujahideen killed three regime personnel and injured eight others in Qala-i-Adaiii Khail on February 5.
 Baghlan Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed three militiamen and wounded four others on February 9 in Chacha Salangi, a village close to the city of Baghlan, Commander Abdul Hai Haqjo reported. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 Kapisa Province
    Seven people were killed, several were injured when a ground-to-ground missile exploded in Safid Cheer village in Panjshir three weeks ago.
    Among those killed was Commander Sherin Khan and Pahlawan Zamir.
    People reaching Pakistan from Panjshir say the incident took place because of careless handling of the rocket shell which was being unloaded from a truck.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ®
Experience pays off
     One year, I was travelling from Balkh to Bamyan and the road was infested with robbers. A young man came with me as my guide. He was strong and broad-shouldered, well-armed and very proud of his bow - It took ten men to string it; arid as for him, no strong man had ever laid him to the ground. However, he had had a sheltered and easy life; he had not travelled or seen the world; he had not heard the beating drums of the military, or seen die flashing swords of die cavalry.
     As we woe marching along together, he would kick down ruined walls and root up old trees, boasting of his strength and saying: " Where are the lions and elephants? They date not show themselves while I am here!"
     The wonts were hardly out of his mouth, when two black Indian robbers
 jumped out from behind a rock to attack us. One was carrying a wooden mallet and the other a club.
     I turned to the young man and asked:" Well, what are you waiting for? Now show your strength and send these wretches to their graves!"
     But I saw the bow and the arrows fall out of his hands. The boy was shaking and trembling. Not every marksman stands his ground when the enemy attacks. So we had no choice but to drop our belongings 'and our weapons and flee few our lives.
     In a difficult situation, use an experienced canny man , who knows what he is doing. A young man may be as strong as an ox, but if he is inexperienced, he will go to pieces in an emergency. A man who has lived through a war knows what to expect in battle, just as an educated man knows what to make of a law-Suit.
Victory comes with hard work
     I was crossing the Meccan desert and spent several nights without sleep till I was too exhausted to walk any further. I lay down and rested my head on my arms and told the camel driver. " Keep your hands off me. How should a poor man like me go any further on foot, when even the big male camel has run out of strength. Those who started off well-padded have become thin as rakes. I was already thin when
  Earthquake
                                   From Page (1)
 The flood washed away dozens of villages and damaged many houses, bridges and irrigation channels. Liberated areas as well as areas controlled by the regime were affected by the flood, which also caused material losses in neighboring Seestan and Baluchistan Province of Iran.
I set off: this hard journey will kill me off."
   He shook me and said:" My brother! The Holy Ka’ba lies in front of you, but bandits are all behind you. If you go on now, you will reach your goal. But if you go to sleep, you will surely die. When the camel caravan moves on through the desert, it is tempting to stay asleep under a thorn bush; but it will cost you your life if you do."
             .*
      failed"” ,
          '5.     -
                                                                                     .hen
                                                                                        sjfci 'tm
                                                                                       iii!!
                                                                                           ■
          m
                                                                                  jb&& linera
      V-'Vs*  s O
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS

     The right answer to a fool is silence.
     Meaning: You will get into trouble if you argue with a fool and therefore silence is golden.
       ^*1                        b
         • Julk                  ..
     As long as there are fools in the world, i)o one will be penniless.
     Meaning:      Spendthrifts are
 foolish.
     Iron cuts iron.
     Meanining:         Dimonds cut
 dimond.
  ^ <jli                    JyJ J)l
     First there be place for nail and then for a fist
     Meaning: Give him an inch and he will take an ell.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page Q
           \ 
Editorial    
____         
Let the 'bleeding wound' heal!
    February 15th marks the second anniversary of the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan. But the withdrawal failed to end Moscow's interference in Afghanistan.
    Gorbachev's decision to withdraw troops was forced on him by economic problems. He was worried about the ailing Soviet economy and wanted to use foreign investment and modem technology to improve the situation. The Soviets' engagement in Afghanistan was a great obstacle to this, and foreign countries were not ready to invest in a country characterized by war-mongering policies and expansionist designs.
    There was also an internal factor which influenced Gorbachev's decision: the rising casualties of the Red Army and the bad image it was getting at home because of involvement in an unjust war.
    As the events of the past two years have shown, Gorbachev never abandoned the objectives of his predecessors in Afghanistan; he only changed his ways of achieving them. The language that Soviet leaders use to denounce the invasion of 1979 clearly shows that they are unhappy about the war because it caused Soviets to suffer and failed to achieve its objectives quickly. They never talk of the suffering of Afghans.
    During and after the Soviet troop withdrawal, Gorbachev did every thing possible to prolong the life of the puppet regime in Kabul. Weapons costing billion of dollars were left behind by his troops and more weapons continued to flow to Kabul by air and land. It is estimated that Soviet military aid to the Kabul regime exceeds 300 million dollars per month.
    Gorbachev gave the Kabul regime weapons of mass destruction never used before in the war in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is the first country where SCUD missiles were used in a war against guerillas. More than 500 Soviet advisors help the Kabul regime in its war efforts. Soviets-launch occasional aerial and artillery attacks against the Mujahideen in the areas close to border. Soviet pilots fly regime planes from Mazar on combat missions. The Soviets have increased their assistance to the Kabul regime in the field of propaganda . Programs of Radio Kabul are transmitted from the Soviet Union, and the regime uses Soviet satellites for its TV transmissions.
    Withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and Gorbachev's tolerance towards changes in Eastern Europe gave him the image of a peace-maker. He became so popular in the West that they gave him the 1990 Nobel Peace Prize. Goibachev's reputation prevented criticism of his war-mongering policies in Afghanistan. Worse than that, the Mujahideen who had fought a liberation war against the Soviets and continued to fight for their right of self-determination were thought to be irreconcileable.
    The question is: Will Gorbachev's plan to keep the Kabul regime in power succeed?
    It has so far, but there is every indication that in the long term this strategy is doomed to failure. The people know very well who Najib is and what type of party the PDPA has been!
    Najib's national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of Afghan people. He has kept himself in power with the help of security belts around the cities , SCUD missiles, MIG-27s and more important, fuel and flour brought to Kabul by the Soviets. He is fighting an extremely costly war at the expense of the Soviet people, who themselves are facing tremendous economic problems.
    Gorbachev must realize that Afghans' patience and determination will frustrate his plans, the same way that they frustrated the designs of his three predecessors. It is in the best interests of the Soviets to let Afghans decide their own future. A government chosen by the Afghan people will be reasonable enough to establish good relations with its neighbors based on equality and mutual respect
Aid for Kabul serves Gorby's home politics
    A prominent French scholar says Gorbachev's support for the Kabul regime is designed to serve his domestic policies. Radio Iran reported.
    Olivier Roy, who has studied Afghanistan for many years, says Najib is a close friend of the communist party chief of Uzbekistan. Gorbachev sup-prats Najib to please the Uzbek chief, whose support is vital for Gorbachev who is facing tremendous economic and political problems.
    Uzbekistan is a Central Asian Republic of the USSR, sharing a common border with Afghanistan.
Kabul ranks seventh in world arms race
    The Kabul regime ranks seventh in the world for importing weapons, Voice of Germany has reported. Najibullah has received 4.6 billion dollars' worth of military equipment like tanks, planes, long-range rockets and other weapons from Gorbachev (the winner of 1990's Nobel Peace Prize) in the past four years.
Kabul. population increased 300%
    The population of Kabul has increased from 800,000, before the war, to 3,000,000 without any increase in housing and health facilities, German Television reported from Kabul.
    The increase is due to population movement from the war zones to the city.
    A considerable number of residents of Kabul have been forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in other countries.
    The war has caused economic crises in Afghanistan, pushing the prices of essential commodities extremely high Since last year, for example, the price of bread, Afghans' staple food, has increased fivefold and the price of fuel oil, tenfold.
Troops to S. Arabia
                                                   From page (1)
Mujahideen is in no way approval of the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait or sympathy with the policies of Saddam Hussain, but part of a dilemma the whole Muslim world is facing. They want to see the liberation of Kuwait but are opposed to waging war against Iraq Iraq insists that Kuwait is part of Iraq.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ©
 Comment by:
                                                         Mohammad Es
■haqj
UN must review aid policy
     The UN has a special responsibility to provide emergency assistance to the victims of the recent earthquake and floods in Afghanistan.
     In normal circumstances, the UN and other humanitarian organizations give support to' the government of a country which has called for help. But the UN is facing a special problem in Afghanistan. The country / is divided into the liberated areas, controlled by the Mujaihideen, and cities and towns, administered by the Kabul regime.
     The Kabul regime is a member of the UN but controls less than 20 percent of the territory and only a fraction of the population. Therefore, provision of assistance through the Kabul regime will not reach the majority of the victims. Most of the people affected by the recent earthquake and floods live in the liberated areas.
     Although the UN has had a mandate, since two years ago, to help along the reconstruction of Afghanistan, it has failed to deal systematically with aid distribution in the liberated areas.
     The UN reconstruction program, headed until recently by Sadruddin Agha Khan, has been operated from offices opened in cities under control
 of the regime. The Mujahideen, who are at war with Kabul, find it difficult to let UN officials cross the line between the two zones for political reasons. The UN had tried to sqlve this issue through agreements with local commanders, by-passing the political parties. This policy prevented creation of a permanent set up to deal with aid distribution in the liberated areas. In dealing with the Mujahideen the UN is facing the same problems it faced two years ago.
      The UN and other relief organizations should organize aid distribution in the liberated areas with help of the Mujahideen parties. The UN should use helicopters or parachute down food, medicine and clothes in the affected areas because the roads are closed due to snowfall. The UN officials should not repeat their past approach of using regime territory to bring supplies to the liberated areas, because this will be opposed. At least for the time being the UN agencies should drop the slogan of "use aid to bring people together," because it is considered by the resistance to be lip service to the national reconciliation program of the regime.
Relief bodies continue to help Afghans despite problems
     Private relief organizations are still helping needy Afghans, said an official of the Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR), an umbrella group for 62 aid agencies based in Pakistan.
     The spokesman said that contrary to rumor, not a single organization had been closed as a result of the Gulf war. He said donors have assured relief organizations that they will provide continued assistance for projects. He admitted , however, that the war had limited some programs for refugees, but said other programs will be implemented as planned.
     A UN Official has said that UN food assistance for Afghans is designed to encourage the refugees' return to Afghanistan, BBC reported.
     He said that UN gives preference to the reconstruction of Afghanistan, even if it is achieved at the cost of reduced assistance to the refugees.
     The Afghan resistance has always distrusted the UN programs run by Operation Salaam. The Mujahideen are afraid that economic aid might be used
  paper published hi Kabul reported. He had gone for medical meat* meot to Bast Germany before the
 i-s* *
 jr
     Kanro was a Politburo member J *      '       *      of  com-
 Gasaf, This was the first time that
 to pressure Afghan refugees to return home before conditions are ripe, while fighting continues.
      The manner in which Sadruddin ran Operation Salaam has created a lot of doubts about the. impartiality of the UN.
      An International Conference on Afghanistan opened in New York on February 9. Representatives of 25 American and European relief organizations, a delegation of Mujahideen, and UN officials took part on the debate. Commander Anwar represented the Commander’s Council in the seminar!,
      The conference discussed ways of helping die refugees and reconstruction of Afghanistan, in addition to the effects of the Gulf war on Afghan issues.
      This was the fourth seminar of its kind organized by the New York-based Afghanistan Relief Committee. The seminar drew world attention towards the Afghan issue, which has been pushed into the background by the Gulf conflict
  J98&, weeks after the Soviet inva-
 this slogan to show their with the presence of Soviets in
      The regime ambassador to Moscow hasaieeently met with Boris Yeltsin, the Presides of the Russian federation, to discuss with him die
  repotted
      It seems that die Kabul regime, worried about the critical tone of Yeltsin about Soviet A%ban Foley, Plod to win his support
      Yaftsin had totted about stopping the arms Supply to Kabul in ex-
                                                   •••
    The UN High commissioner for apes wIS give 4J£
AFGHANews Vol7, No 4, February 15,1991, page ©
Kabul, resistance accused of Human Rights abuses
      The US State Department reports a relative improvement in the human-rights situation in Afghanistan during 1990.
      The annual report of the State Department which was presented to the Congress says that there were less cases of human rights violations in Afghanistan last year.
      Since the US does not have an embassy in Kabul, the report is based on information gathered by unofficial sources.
      The report says prisoners are still being tortured in Afghanistan, but to a lesser degree than in the past Since 1978, more than five million Afghans have taken refuge outside their country and conditions have not improved enough to for them to return to their country. Bombing of the populated areas controlled by the Mujahideen continued in 1990. The regime's aerial bombing from high altitude, artillery fire and firing of SCUD and other ground-to-ground missiles left many civilians dead.
      The report says the two sides in the conflict have killed POWs on the battlefield.
      The report says the Kabul regime
 cooperated with a number of organizations concerned with the human rights situation. ICRC delegations were allowed to visit prisons; the UN special rapporteur on human rights visited Kabul, and Asia Watch was allowed to send a representative to Kabul.
     In 1990, ICRC and some journalists were allowed to visit some Afghan and Soviet prisoners held by the Mujahideen.
     New York-based Asia Watch, which studies the human rights situation in Asia, has published its 1990 report on the situation in Afghanistan. The report says despite the Kabul regime’s announcements of freedom of speech and gatherings, Afghans have not been able to test this freedom.
     Asia Watch says it has received reports of torture of detainees in Kabul. The reports says the Kabul regime takes armed militias out of their areas to fight the Mujahideen. These militias have looted the property of returning refugees in Faryab, Badghis and Kandahar and have forced their young men to serve in the regime army.
     Asia Watch is also critical of violations of. human rights by some Mujahideen groups.
                                                 Khalis opposes!
|||
 • Mawt^wi.the] Interior MimStier of AlC*, rejected die rumors of Toddiaron
                                                  Jalalabad road for commercial pur-
University of Deception
     Akhbar-i-Hafta (Weekly News), published in Kabul, writes that the opening of Balkh University in 1988 was designed to deceive the people of the north, because it has no facilities and no experienced teachers.
     Balkh University was established in 1988 in Mazar-i-Sharif. It has four faculties - engineering, agriculture; economics and literature. A block of the technical school of Mazar, which has 60 rooms, houses classrooms, teachers and their families, a hostel, a library and the University's storerooms. There are 150 male and female students in Balkh University who live in dormitories scattered in three different places. Sixteen students live in each room, sleeping on the floor. Student hostels are overcrowded too and the bathrooms are in appalling condition.
     The University is plagued by nepotism and ethnic problems. The students have complained to the authorities in Kabul about their problems but with no result
                                                                                                               the paper asks why the authorities opened a university without thinking about the facilities it needs. The paper includes that from the condition Of
hi
 Balkh University one must conclude that the idea behind it was to deceive people.
     The paper reports an incident involving the chancellor of Balkh University in which he beat and bruised several doctors and nurses of Balkh hospital who had failed to save the life of his son.
     According to the paper, the chan cellor's son was admitted to hospital and underwent an appendix operation. The operation was successful but hours later the child's condition deteriorated and despite attempts by the doctors to save him, he died.
     The chancellor was furious over the death of his son. He started to beat several medical staffers whom he blamed for the loss of his beloved child. He Injured and bruised severai doctors and nurses and with his armed body-guards even attacked the house oi the doctor who had carried out the operation. The frightened doctors and nurses went on strike to draw the atten tion of the authorities in Mazar. They were promised justice, but the paper says the chancellor was never even questioned about what he did.
 SUugiliiti safaris
 ■   Akhbar^Hafta. a weeldy pjipet]
 published      reports that nu-|
                                                                                melons hi^bfik^ the Kjtfadfe*|
                                                                                gill: ihbibshii sn
 Russia              fibbers |
 smuggling purposes. The practice b so widespread that it has become semNegat                   ■
 ■   According to the paper* Afghan
                                                                                                                                  opt^S|p^||
 the road ^$$|e Sl|immet|i8| j play Into the hands of the regime and! will be interpreted asvictoty for thej so-called national reconciliation pofi-l cy of l&bnh He added, that] Mujahideenag^St the ling of the highway at this stage bel cause it will benefit ;tifce:'^hne"eqiH nominally. The regime will collect] millions rtf dollar as import and export taxes on the conunodities. ft wiB hlSO:
 I Afghani bank notes and get valuable | foreign exchange ln£|||^ opening of the highway will facilitate infiltration Of KHAD KGB 0ie$: into Pakistan and the sending of arms IfSr terrorist activities.
 I from the tribal areas arb trying topeif buade the Mt^(^ tp: open the;
 iKi                .     .    .   ■
                                                                                                                             from the high officials* indulge in
                                                                                                      undertake two or three or even four
■•.W.VMWV^V.W.S]
      This has severely affected their studies and has made some of them! very rich- If h said that some $tu-
                                                                                         Condolence |i|ss!|p|
                   111®!
                                                                                                            , :n&g^ne'; lurvd
                                                                                         I condoled with the President and
                                                                                         I Prime Minister of Pakistan over the
                                                                                         I deathsof tnbre than 200 people id
 plot unearthed
    A plot to assassinate Commander Ahmad Shah Vlasood was uncovered by the security authorities of the Supervisory Council (SC) three weeks ago.
    Three people have been arrested in this connection. According to an SC source, the culprits are residents of Takhar who worked in the police department of the city. They have revealed their connection with Commander Bashir, a fmous Hezb commander in the north.
    "Documents and weapons proving their involvement in the plot have been captured and they arc being interrogated by the SC authorities," the source said.
    Jami'at has raised the issue with Hezb leadership in Peshawar because some months ago the two parties agreed to address their differences through negotiations. A joint committee to address these problems between the two parties was established when the agreement was signed.
    Informed sources say Masood is eager to follow the election program that the two parties had agreed and the plot has not changed his stand on the agreement
 AIG Embassy angers Kabul
    The Kabul regime has condemned the decision of the Sudanese Government to establish diplomatic ties with the Afghan Interim Government (AIG).
    The Kabul regime claims that Sudan had agreed to maintain secret contacts with the Kabul regime and offered to mediate between Kabul and the Mujahideen.
    While the anger of the regime about the opening of the Mujahideen embassy in Khartoum is understandable, it looks odd to believe that Sudan would have indulged in KGB style secret talks with Kabul.
    When a Kabul diplomat faces a diplomat from another country in a cocktail diplomatic party and says hello to the regime diplomat, out of politeness, the regime media call it a secret meeting of high importance! The meeting between regime and Sudanese officials might have been of this nature.
%g§w£ iwmgt
   m tfe stmm

     The regime's television has that the UN is providing financial assis-opened a window to the out- tance for the lodging and transportation side world through which one of these people. It seems that the Kabul can catch a glimpse of living regime embassy in Tehran and its con-conditions in the besieged capi- sulates in other cities of Iran are very tal and the way Its communist active and the softening of Iran's policy rulers run their business.                 towards regime helps the program.
      A few months ago satellite was used to feed TV signals to different parts of Afghanistan. This is why one can watch the regime's TV in Peshawar with help of satellite antennae. The use of satellites for broadcasting TV signals shows the deep commitment of the Soviet Union to support the Kabul regime and the importance that Kabul and Moscow attach to the propaganda side of the war. The Soviet Union pays the expenses of the project and the Kabul regime uses the TV to promote its national reconciliation program.
      Recently, Kabul TV showed the proceedings of the regime national assembly in which the Prime Minister, Khaliqyar, gave the report of his government work. The representatives expressed their views about the performance of the government. Most of the speakers complained about red tape, bribery and discrimination within the government. Almost all of them complained about high prices which had made life miserable For the people. Several members spoke against discrimination against minority nationalities and objected to privileges given to party members (PDPA members) and some units of the regime army.
      It was interesting to see that many of those sitting in the regime national assembly claimed to represent the people of districts controlled by the Mujahideen where the regime has no presence.
      The representative of Bamyan was asking for formation of a 'temporary cell' of the Bamyan Province in Kabul or Parwan. The Kabul regime has established many of such 'temporary cells' for liberated districts and provinces and these cells are located either in Kabul or in neighboring cities controlled by the regime.
      The Kabul TV reports the return of refugees from Pakistan and Iran regularly but returning refugees from Iran get the most of the TV’s coverage. The returning refugees are lodged in Peace Guest House' in Herat and then flown to Kabul and other cities. It is believed
      International seminars, organized with the help of UN, are the events used for propaganda reasons. In these seminars in addition to Soviet scholars delegates from Iran take part giving them an international color. Iran seems in favor of cultural exchange with Kabul.
      The Kabul regime also tries to give an impression that it has given more freedom to Shias in Afghanistan than the past. Events in mosques belonging to Shia community are covered on regime media; the shrine of Hazrat-i- Ali (the fourth Caliph of Islam for whom Shias show special respect) in Mazar is being expanded and some Shia scholars have been given important positions in the ministry of religious affairs.
      The regime TV shows a military documentary film about the achievements of the regime army every night. Medals are distributed among the personnel of armed forces and every supply convoy reaching Kabul is called a major victory for the regime army. Regime officers and soldiers interviewed boast about their achievements and call themselves defenders of Islam and die motherland. It is amazing to see that the Kabul regime possesses a large fleet small and medium size transport planes, used to take supplies to many destinations in the country. Differences between Mujahideen parties are. highlighted and contradictory statements by Mujahideen leaders are fully exploited. .
      The Kabul TV has some entertainment program which include songs by Afghans, showing Indian films and Western music and dance.
      The basic problem of the regime TV is lack of electricity. Leave alone the countryside, even most part of the capital is facing days of power cut. Despite all these shortcoming the propaganda of the regime have had an affect because the Mujahideen have no means and plan to counter it effectively.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 4, February 15, 1991, page ©
People of Faryab support Jehad despite harsh living conditions
      Following is summary of the ob-I servations made by Qazi Mohammad I Nazif about the situation in Faryab Province. The interview was published in the January issue of Messaq-i-Khoon. a monthly journal published by I Jami'at Islami:
      Drought and sunnpests have I caused reduction in farm products. Prices of food commodities have gone high. In Badghis, the neighboring province, about 30,000 people were forced to take refuge in other places because of famine. Steps have been taken to bring the harmful insects under control. Insecticide was brought from Peshawar and also provided by the UN . It is hoped that continuous spray will re-| duce the threat of the insect.
      For two years, the UN and some I other relief organizations based in Peshawar have been providing seeds and fertilizer to the people in Faryab and Badghis. But these supplies are not enough and good harvests depend on timely Tainfall. Agricultural land in I Faryab is mainly rain-fed.
      The majority of the people in I Faryab live in the province. Some people have been displaced within the province because of the war. In order 1 to improve the economic situation, the j Mujahideen have opened 12 new markets (bazaars) in the liberated areas where internal refugees find a place to work.
 relieved Mujahideen were told to earn their living. Despite Financial problems and the enemy propaganda, the people of Faryab continue to support the Mujahideen.
     The Mujahideen have opened 60 schools in the area , 42 schools by Jami'at Islami and 18 by Hezb Islami. All the Mujahideen parties cooperate with each other in the field of education.
     Poor health care is one the major problems of Faryab.The people suffer from shortages of medicine and lack of qualified doctors. There are some clinics in Faryab, but the Mujahideen do not have proper hospitals to help the local people and treat the wounded Mujahideen.
     The Kabul regime's national reconciliation program has failed to win the support of the people of Faryab. The Mujahideen control seven districts and four sub-districts of the province. The Kabul regime has limited presence in three districts and controls Maimana, the provincial capital. The Kabul re gime tries to weaken the resistance in three ways:
     I Exploiting differences between the Mujahideen parties.
     I Taking advantage of the poor ec onomic condition of the people. In the areas where the regime has a presence, it pays high salaries to some landlords
 Teheran donates money to Kabul
    The Iranian Embassy in Kabul i landed over a cheque of 2,000,000 Afghanis to the regime's Red Crescent Society for the victims of floods in southwestern Afghanistan, Radio Kabul reported.
    Iran also had given assistance to the Kabul regime's Red Crescent on several other occasions. After the UN, Iran is the first country to respond to the call of Najib far assistance.
    The previous symbolic donations of Iran to the Kabul regime were sharply criticized by the Mujahideen. Some people see these gestures as a sign of wanning relations between Kabul and Tehran which the Iranians do not admit publicly.
    Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has sent a congratulatory message to Iranian president Hashemi Rafsanjani on the occasion of 12th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran.
    The message starts with the name of God and ends with a prayer for bet ter relations between Iran and Afghanistan for the sake of peace in the region. Najib address the Iranian President as 'esteemed brother’. .
 The Mujahideen used to collect and corrupt religious figures and orga-
 taxes from the local people to meet their needs. This gave the Kabul regime leverage to wage a propaganda war against the Mujahideen and ac-| cuse them of living off the poor people.
    In order to remove some pressure I from the people, the Mujahideen decided to reduce the number of their armed men and close some of their bases. The
 nizes them in fatherland front These people preach that the regime wants to help the people but the Mujahideen oppose it
     I The Kabul regime wants to create ethnic differences between people, local communist faction promotes itself as the champion of the cause of Uzbeks and Tajiks.
                                       — - -- - - - -- - - -- <
(Help earthquake victims in Afghanistan!
      Ahmad Shah Masood has asked Islamic countries, friendly nations, humanitarian organizations and UN agencies to give urgent aid to victims of the devastating earthquake which hit northeast Afghanistan on February 2.
      After a decade of suffering at the hand of the Soviets, natural disaster has killed and wounded hundreds of people and their livestock and has left hundreds of people homeless in the middle of an extremely harsh winter. They also face shortages of food, warm clothes and medicine.
      Afghans are brave and have exceptional power to endure difficulties, but among them are vulnerable groups. like women, children and old people who need help urgently.
      You can send your donations to these needy people through:
                                          HeCp us publish
                                                                                     wqrtkHpws!
                                       Tftast send your donations to the foCUmhng account number:
         TEMW Account 9fp. 735-37 Jfabib “Banl^Ltd
                                          ‘T+CP/if <Unfn fPrch/ir/nr