 Hi 'TO * HA
                                                                                                                                                                                       ".%. ■:■ ■>■■&> ■■]r...:\"X; Ax A;":■ f-\<h ■.':::'■ A t > A - > 4a■:. (A x >\ •■
                                       ^             $A: ■ ^; * -'a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WWvXOXv X&^v .- - V <■ -v^vv.y
                                                                                                                              ($1
 ‘.vt* £?.0.■.->.<■.-sf1^ ({..jj-xv $%>/'< v rt*1 J   <•  ., . .sj «V
 ^■j  kv-:o:<;x<'X  :p;:£         £\     £■; % x <■-  # y ■ \ < ■ .* :w<
 v?   ^^ ■<•: ■•>: 's-os-x^'Xs'X: x-xa^^ .#:» / <.%■   (,    •* ^ .
 ,    ;-<<-,/r---y. 3       ^3:                          Vy
  ■    A A                                         :; 10 A S ^ H - A
 ■  „        5    ' 11 <?   %\\£ v<_sJs C?X ^                     S
  .../.I-.* X>iy£
’jV                   ■OV.'.iV   r* '
: '■VVxX'^SA ;.                  t:. "■■ ■■
1::.:: ty-'A>x' Av^ & f A<■A *• ..'.•* v ; :■
: .':           <:>;■-:.^ V, '■ .
;,. ■ xX '"', xX'XX'XXx'x-:: .-'■- ■ - ,
'..'                   ^ V.^'H' i* .’'■ 0
- AAHHAxAxVfxxs-; i-:- ■ A
'■'7'T;"'6sj A
% A1,t,;,\ <j>X^s< v. v^ v.> "£s\.A vy.s'.x.'^.-.s;.-.:^.
>*.">
& A Af?j
 XV AV-AKA'A A i A,<V >A A- ■■■
 * K\A\<*s ^ * y.>< y ?' x> <$o<>< ^v <** &
                                                                                                                                   ^ A° A '
                                                                                                                                  va-A
                                                                                                                                 ' A* A
                                                                                                                                 ■ J. ,> o £ xx
                                                                                                                                  XV C -
a ngr
                                                                                                                                  's ?(54
                                                                                                                                  \ It.
                                                                                                                                  It-
                                                                                                                                X-'ITAA
 r X' <
  x 5> ^ >
  \ vV^x-.

 ,x.      >< x?.vVx > y>1?^ ^ A v5s'
 V- .       V^^<JU^yyC     ^
 rA       ^5?., ^<>C yyh^5-A<.<
 IA-?| % tt>|A I
 \ . y /HtAt A
                                                                                                                                                                            c>
 i I-.1                    At -.,
 /..■■ < AAA/i Ay- '' -.yy A
; .%'J%
<->xoX^x2>>c^
Vol 8, No 7
April 1,1992
Kubul loses Mazar
     The Kabul regime lost control of Mazar-i-Sharif, the second most important city of Afghanistan and the capital of Balkh Province, on March 18. Half of the city came und^ control of the Mujahideen while the remaining half is being ruled by the rebel militia forces erf Dostum and Kayan. -
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at played the leading role in fighting that led to fall of Mazar. Jami'at leader has described this victory as the most important achievement of the Mujahideen since the start of Jehad.
     Attack on the city preceded by operations launched in Balkh, Samangan and Jawzjan provinces. The Mujahideen liberated all districts of Balkh, a sub-district of Jawzjan and a district and part of the provincial capital of Samangan.
     Exploiting the differences between Najib and its militiamen in the north, the Supervisory Council ordered launching of operations in Balkh and Samangan for the purpose of eliminating the rule the regime from the area.
     Attack on Kholm District began on March 13. In three days of fighting, the Mujahideen liberated Kholm and brought under their control the road from Aibak to Mazar.
     Simultaneously, the Mujahideen of Jami'at launched attacks, from two directions, on the enemy bases in Balkh Province. From south, the Mujahideen led by Commander Ata Mohammad cleared their way to the outskirts of Dehdadi air base after overrunning regime post on their way. From west, the Mujahideen under the command of Alam Khan reached the defenses of the Mazar city after liberating Faizabad, Daulatabad, Balkh and Nahr-i-Shahi districts . Charkent, southeast of the dty, also fell to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen broke the defenses of the city and entered Mazar in the afternoon of March 18.
     As the Mujahideen approached the city, the Kabul regime troops evacuated Mazar and retreated to Dehdadi air base which was controlled by the
 Dostum militiamen. Half of die city came under control of the Mujahideen and the other half under Kayan and Dostum militiamen. Withdrawal of regime troops from Mazar took place at die time when Genual Nabi Azimi, the commander of Kabul garrison, was still in Mazar. He had gone there to mediate between the rebel militia forces and Najib.
     Liberation Mazar was organized. The Mujahideen made every effort to protect the life and property of the people. There were no incident of looting and random bloodshed in the areas under control of the Mujahideen.
     On March 21, the traditional flag-hoisting ceremony on the shrine of Hazrat Ali (the fourth Calif of Islam) took place in the presence of both the Mujahideen and militia forces.
     Kabul continued to refute reports of Mazar's fall, but it refused to allow foreign journalists to visit the area.
     In Samangan, the Mujahideen continued their advance towards Aibak after the fall of Kholm. They captured a battalion of KHAD and took the governor of Samangan as a prisoner. They stopped their further advance due to the presence of militiamen of Kayan because Mujahideen had no intention of provoking an aimed a clash with them.
     The Mujahideen also liberated Qala-i-Zal District in Kunduz and brought Kunduz-Sirkhan Bander road under their control. Pressure on the city of Kunduz and the center of Baghlan is mounting.
     The fall of Mazar and Samangan is
 an extremely bad news for Najib who depended on the Kabul-Mazar road fra transportation of food and fuel. Prices of food and fuel has started to rise making it difficult for die ordinary people to buy their daily bread.
     The situation in Balkh turned against die Kabul regime in mid January when Najib wanted to replace the commander of the border town erf Hayratan, General Momen, by a more loyal officer. The move was considered as an attempt by Kabul to curb the power to local militia groups. Kayan and Dostum militiamen assured defiant Momen of their support. Negotiations to resolve the dispute almost succeed at the end of February after Najib agreed U> transfer Juma Azek, an officer involved in the dispute. He, however made a mistake by asking the militiamen to abandon their opposition to the transfer of Momen from his post The agreement collapsed and Azek was sent back to Mazar. In the meantime militiamen who enjoy support of some ranking members of Watan Party, contacted different Mujahideen groups. It seemed that they were looking for a type of recognition from the Mujahideen in return fra common stand against the regime. The militiamen were working to bring Mazar and other areas, controlled by the forces loyal to Najib, under their rule. The Mujahideen parties, including the Supervisory Council, kept talking to the rebel militia groups without agree ing to their demands. The Mujahideen were, and still are, ready to provide protection fra militiamen if they sur rendered to them. Under these ciicum stances, the Supervisory Council, the most powerful organization of the Mujahideen in the area, decided to launch operations before the developments went in the wrong direction Militia forces remained neutral in fighting between the Mujahideen and the forces loyal to Najib.
      The UN closed its regional office in Mazar and flew out its officials to Kabul.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
Battlefields
Samangan Province
    •In a joint operation, the Mujahideen liberated Kholm District and Tashqurghan Gorge on March 13, Hindukush News Agency reported. The Mujahideen attacked army, KHAD and police units in Kholm. Around 600 troops surrendered to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen seized 15 tanks, 30 trucks, seven heavy weapons, four mortars, six anti-aircraft guns and a large quantity of ammunition, food and clothes. Defeating the regime forces in Kholm, the Mujahideen brought under control a section of Kabul-Mazar road. Jami'at Mujahideen under the command of Sadbashi led the operation.
    *On March 14, the Mujahideen attacked the enemy security posts on Kabul-Mazar highway in Chashma-i-Hayat, Sayyad, Dosaraka, and Feroz Bakhshi areas, overrunning six security posts and capturing 80 soldiers and officers and seizing three tanks, six trucks, 60 Kalashnikov rifles, eight RPG rocket launchers, eight PK ma-chineguns, four ZPU-1, two pistols and a large quantity of ammunition, Commander Sadbashi reported. The Mujahideen extended their control over Kabul-Mazar road.
    In retaliation, the Kabul regime's warplanes heavily bombed the residential areas in Kholm. No information was available about the casualties of the civilian population.
    -The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the security posts around Aibak, the provincial capital of Samangan, on March 14, capturing ten posts, liberating six villages and seizing two ZPU-1 anti-craft guns, 10 Kalashnikov rifles, (Hie Goryunov machinegun, one PK machinegun, two radio sets, one jeep and some ammunition. Commander Salim reported
    ■The Mujahideen attacked the security posts of the regime around the city of Aibak on March 16r,’capturing ten security posts and seizing two ZPU-1, one PK machinegun, 50
 Kalashnikov rifles, one R-105 radio set, one jeep, and some ammunition. One Mujahid was killed.
     •The Mujahideen captured Dalkhaki and Tashkandi villages, close to the city of the Aibak, on March 17, Commander Sadbashi reported. They arrested 20 enemy troops and seized three mortars, two ZPU-1 guns, three PK machineguns, one Goryunov machinegun, four radio sets and a large quantity of ammunition.
 Balkh Province
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime's positions on Daulatabad-Balkh road on March 14, capturing all the security posts and seizing ten tanks, 500 light weapons, three anti-aircraft guns, two 76 mm howitzers, six vehicles and two radio sets, Mawlawi Alam reported.
     Mawlawi Alam is the chief administrator (Amir) of Jami’at in Balkh Province.
     Ten Mujahideen were killed and 26 sustained injuries in the fighting.
     •     On the same day, ten enemy posts were captured when the Mujahideen attacked regime security posts around the city of Mazar-i-Sharif.
     •      The Mujahideen liberated Charkent District, southeast of the city of Mazar on March 15, Mawlawi Alam reported. In two days of fighting, the Mujahideen captured 50 regime troops and seized 150 Kalashnikov rifles, two tanks, four mortars, eight RPG rocket launchers and six PK machineguns.
     •     The Mujahideen captured all enemy posts in Bagh-i-Paya, including two post belonging to Mazar airport, on March 16. They seized 12 enemy troops, two tanks and 13 Kalashnikov rifles. Bagh-i-Paya is a overlooking the airport.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen captured Kampirak township in Balkh District They seized four tanks and 130 heavy and light weapons.
     • The Mujahideen liberated Balkh
 District on March 17, Mawlawi Alam reported.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen captureJ Chel Gazi, Takhta Pul and Langar Khana areas, close the city of Mazar.
     One tank, three jeeps, three PK machineguns, three RPG rocket launchers and 220 Kalashnikov rifles were seized when the Mujahideen attacked the regime security posts around the airport of Mazar on March 17.
     •The Mujahideen entered the strategic city of Mazar on March 18 forcing the troops loyal to Najib to flee to Dehdadi air base, controlled by the dissident militiamen.
 Kunduz Province
     •     The Mujahideen liberated Qala-i-Zal District on March 21, Commander Arif Khan reported.
     The Mujahideen launched simultaneous attacks on KHAD, police and army units in the district and forced theifr to surrender without much resistance. More than 250 regime soldiers, including 50 officers, were captured and 10 soldiers were killed. Three Mujahideen sustained injuries during the operation. A group of Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar Mujahideen took part in the operation alongside the Mujahideen of Jami'at. The Mujahideen seized five tanks, one 23 mm anti-aircraft gun, six ZPU-1 machineguns, one AGS-17 grenade launcher, five Goryunov machine-guns, 200 Kalashnikov rifles, three mortars and large quantities of ammunition.
     •Thirteen militiamen, including Hafeez Cherik, a commander of the regime have defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at, Commander Arif Khan reported. Their post was located on Kunduz-Sherkhan Bandar road, close to Bala Hisar. They brought with them 10 Kalashnikov rifles, two PK machineguns, one RPG rocket launcher, one tank, one R107 radio set and some ammunition.
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured dozens of enemy troops and seized three tanks and some arms and ammunition when they attacked regime's security posts in Alehin, north of the city of Kunduz, on March 23, Arif Khan reported. The Mujahideen control the road connecting Kunduz to Sherkhan port on the Tajikistan border
     •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime's position in Char Dara District, west of the city of Kunduz, on March 23, overrunning three post, kill ing or injuring many enemy troops and seizing several heavy and light weap-
   («- To page (3)
AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
Masood asks Mujahideen to coordinate operations
    In an interview with Al-ehad, an Arabic magazine published in Peshawar, Commander Ahmad shah Masood has said that the new Afghan year will be a witness to major developments and asked all the Mujahideen eaders to coordinate their military activities around Kabul.
    He said that he would close Salang highway permanently if the Mujahideen parties agreed on a plan of action against the regime around Kabul.
    Talking to Al-Jehad in Panjshir, Masood said the Mujahideen should wiped out the regime bases around
 Kabul before launching any operation against the capital itself and warned that the Mujahideen should not repeat the mistakes they committed in Jalalabad.
     Rejecting the rumors about ethnic rift among the Mujahideen, Masood said the rumors were spread to weaken the resistance. "We are Muslims and have fought Jehad under the banner of Islam to establish an Islamic government in Kabul," he stated. He said those who promoted the cause of Tajiks belonged to Setami-i-Milli, a faction of PDPA whom he defeated last Summer in Takhar forcing their leader, Samad, to flee to Kabul.
Mujahideen pose no threat to security of Uzbekistan
     The Defense Minister of Uzbekistan Rostam Ahmadov has said an Islamic government in Kabul poses no threat to his country, VO A reported.
     He said the situation in Afghanistan was complicated and hoped that Afghans would live in peace.
     He rejected the argument that the removal of Najib from power through peaceful means or war and formation of a 'fundamentalist' government in Kabul posed a threat to Uzabekistan.
     Uzbekistan has 150 kilometers of common border with Afghanistan. The majority of Uzbekistn's population are Muslims.
     The Kabul regime has signed an agreement with Uzbekistan to buy 100 million kilowatts of electricity during the year 1992. The electricity will be sold to the factories and residential areas in Balkh and Jawzjan provinces.
      The road from Uzbekistan border to Kabul is becoming insecure due to problems between militiamen and the the regime. Farid Mazdak, a leading Watan Party leader, has suggested deployment of a UN peace-keeping force in Afghanistan to keep the roads open.
      Prof. Asghar, the head of Salvation Society, a pro-Zahir Shah group based in Kabul, has said the UN soldiers should be introduced in Afghanistan to keep the roads open. He said militiamen were blocking roads for ransom. He said if UN could deploy its troops in Yugoslavia, why they could not be deployed in Afghanistan.
      All of Mazdak's family, except his wife, have gone to Tajikistan to settle
 there. An informed source said a considerable number of regime people have bought houses and shops in the newly liberated Central Asian republics - especially in Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.
    The Kabul regime has said Afghan students studying in Russia, Uzbekistan, Kasakhslan and Tajikistan will not be asked to pay hard currency.
    The minister of higher education of the regime has said that the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) has decided to fulfil its obligations towards the agreements signed with the foreign countries and Afghan students will continue to study based on the agreements signed with the former Soviet Union.
    More than 7,500 Afghan students study in CIS states. In addition to that, thousands of Afghan children are also in CIS states.
 News from Battleields
                                          From page (2)
 ons. Commander Arif Khan reported. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
 Jawzjan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at liberated Faizabad sub-District in Aaqcha on March 13 after defeating the regime forces stationed there. Commander Alam Khan reported. The Mujahideen seized one tank, one jeep, one antiaircraft gun, 700 pieces of light weapons and some ammunition.
 Baghlan Province
    ■More than 100 militiamen and soldiers were killed and many were injured when militiamen of Kayan group clashed with units from KHAD and police in Baladuri, close to the city of Puli Khumri, on March 16, Commander Abdul Hay Haqjo reported.
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured ten regime soldiers and seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-gun, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition in Dooshir District on March 13.
    •The Mujahideen captured 20 regime troops and seized 36 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, two P.K machine guns, two RPG rocket launchers and some ammunition on March 23 Commander Axbab Juma reported. The troops were stationed in security posts east of the city of Baghlan.
    •Nine militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen on March 23 in Haji Khalil village of Hasantal, close to the Baghlan city, bringing with them nine Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG rocket launcher and some ammunition.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ®
  Editorial
 An unprecedented victory
    The recent victories of the Mujahideen in the north of Afghanistan tilted the military balance in favor of the resistance and improved the chances of the Kabul regime's overthrow in the near future.
    Exploiting the differences between the regime and its militiamen, the Supervisory Council of Jami'at decided to launch attacks against the regime in Balkh, Samangan, Jawzjan and Kunduz provinces. As a result, the Mujahideen succeeded to liberate all districts of Balkh, Kholm District and part of Aibak in Samangan, Qali-i-Zal District in Kunduz and Faizabad sub-District in Jawzjan. The major victory of the Mujahideen came when Jami’at decided to enter Mazar, the second most important political and military center of the regime after Kabul.
  . While the Mujahideen of Jami'at led these operations, the Mujahideen of Harakat-i-Inqilab of Mohammadi and Harakat-i-Islami of Mohsini also took part in them.
    The militia forces of Rashid Dostum and Jafar Nadiri remained neutral in the Fighting between the regime forces and the Mujahideen. The decision to neutralized the militias without making any concession to them was a timely and wise move.
    The liberation of Mazar from control of the regime was smooth with no arbitrary blood-letting and looting. The necessary measures were taken to insure the safety of the residents of Mazar.
    The fall of Mazar dealt a severe blow to the prestige of the Kabul regime convincing many, at home and abroad, that its fall was imminent It proved that not only the regime was unable to win victories against the Mujahideen, it was also incapable of preventing its own disintegration after effective cut of foreign aid to it
    The fall of Mazar prompted Najib to give an undertaking to the UN that he was ready to hand over all the state powers to an interim government formed through die UN process and was not insisting on his own participation in the peace talks. Without the setbacks in the north, Najib would have not been ready to make such a pledge. It proved correct an opinion expressed by the Mujahideen that military pressure on the regime would expedite the solution of Afghan problem.
    Developments in the north also forced the UN to revise its peace formula and Benon Sevan has indicated that he wanted to hasten things by calling a bigger assembly of Afghans instead of going through a multi-stage peace process. This is a positive development in regard to the UN efforts because the multi-stage plan was,complicated, unpredictable and time-consuming.
    The victories of the Mujahideen in the north raised the morale of the Afghan people at home and abroad. Afghan refugees all over the world tried hard to get the news of developments in Mazar. The positive reaction of all the refugees to the victories in the north showed the popularity of successful military operations against the regime. The victory also pleased die supporters of the Mujahideen , particularly, the Muslim supporters of Jehad, all over the world.
    Developments in the north has made it extremely urgent that the Mujahideen leaders speed up their efforts for forming an alternative interim administration to replace the Kabul regime.
    As a first step, Jami'at has proposed formation of a council of commanders of all the Mujahideen parties in the north to deal with the volatile situation in the area. Some leaders have reacted positively to the proposal and Jami'at hopes that the remaining leaders will do the same. Formation of a body representing all Mujahideen parties is necessary to coordinate military activities and put an end to the speculation about ethnic divisions in the area.
    The communique signed by some Mujahideen commanders in Peshawar ac-

                          To page (8)
Zindajan
liberated
   Zindajan, a district west of the city of Herat, has been liberated from control of the regime forces and its residences who had fled the town because of war have started to return.
   The Kabul regime launched a massive attack on Zindajan last May to drive the Mujahideen out of the town. The regime failed to occupy Zindajan but the town was destroyed in fighting which lasted for ten months. More than 50,000 of its residence became refugees in Iran and^ other liberated districts of the province.
   The last enemy post in Taraka, east of the town, was captured by the Mujahideen on March 1. The district is now out of the range of the regime artillery making it possible for the people to resume their normal life.
   The returning refugees are facing danger of landmines, planted by regime. So far, 12 returning refugees have been killed by mines. The office of Ismail Khan in Pakistan has approached the UN demining agency for assistance. Pashtoon, the head of demining program in southwest Afghanistan, has shown readiness to send a demining team and necessary equipment to Herat The team is waiting for permission from the Iranian government for passage through Iran.
   Haji Qari, the representative of Ismail Khan in Peshawar, said the Mujahideen needed assistance to help the rehabilitation of the returning refugees. They also want to reopen schools and clinics which were closed due to the offensive.
   Zindajan was a flourishing town with schools, mosques and hospitals. The UN had opened an office there. Hie Kabul regime launched an offen sive to disturb peace in the district and deprive the resistance of a good administrative model.
   The Mujahideen say that the situa tion in the city of Herat is not good. Prices of goods are very high and people feel insecure due to involvement of regime militiamen in robbery and kidnapping. Militiamen also fight each other. Herat airport has come under control of militiamen belonging to Daud faction. Lack of security forced the regime to move its civilian aircraft to Shindand air base in Farah Province Khaliqyar, the prime minister of the regime and resident of Herat, is trying hard to prevent repetition of develop^ merits in Mazar.
AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Darab Khan
     Darab Khan, 38, is a commander who -has served           under
 Commander Masood, inside and outside the Panjshir valley, since the beginning of Soviet invasion            of
 Afghanistan.
     Darab's first experience in war was a daring daylight attack on regime van in Rukha, a town in Panjshir, in 1980. He and a few other Mujahideen attacked the van that carryed soldiers with grenade inside the perimeters of the regime's garrison. Few soldiers were killed and two Kalashnikov rifles were seized. A few months later, he took part in another daylight attack on an observation post inside the enemy garrison, killing several soldiers and officers. These operations raised the morale of the local Mujahideen and people.
     Darab was arrested by the regime police in the fall of 1980 when he secretly visited Kabul to do some work in relation to Jehad. He remained in jail for six months and was released because of lack of evidence.
     Witnessing Darab's courage and leadership qualities, Masood sent him outside Panjshir to lead a group of Mujahideen in Shemali, north of Kabul, in the operations against Soviet and regime troops. He served as a commander of Kohband, Kohistan District, in 1982. He led 100 Mujahideen in an operation in An darab in 1983. When the Soviets launched the 7th offensive against Panjshir in 1984, Darab and a few of the local Mujahideen returned to the valley after initial evacuation ordered by Masood. He and his fellow Mujahideen continued to attacked the Soviet troops stationed in Rukha.
     Later in the year# he was appointed the commander of Zamankoor, in the lower part of Panjshir, and then the commander of Hisarak, a side-valley in Rukha, where he remained for two years. When Masood formed the Islamic Army, he organized military and political classes to train commanders. Darab attended one of these classes in the upper part of Worsaj in Takhar. Since the total liberation of Panjshir in 1989, Darab remained in the valley to take care of his family.
     Darab was bon in Shast, a village in Rukha. His father, Purdil Khan, was a farmer. Darab learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his vil-
 lage and went to school at the age of seven. He left school when he was in the 11th class to do his military service. When he was asked, why did not he finish school, he said: "My brother Rahm Dil refused to do his military service. My father was under pressure from the government because of that and I wanted to teach my brother a practical lesson by volunteering to do the military service".
     The communist coup of 1978 took place when he was serving in the army in Balahisar of Kabul. He completed his service during the communists’ rule and began to work in a private auto repair shop in Kabul. Darab returned to Panjshir with , three of his brothers at the end of 1979 to join the Mujahideen. Since then, he and his brothers has been fighting against the Soviets and the Kabul regime. His youngest brother, Ainuddin, was martyred in 1981 in Gulbahar, a town at the mouth of the Panjshir valley, in fighting with regime and Soviet forces. One of his brothers, Rahm Dil, was injured in fighting with militias of the regime in Jabulseraj and was treated in the US. He returned to Afghanistan after receiving medical treatment.
     Darab and his brothers have inherited courage from their father. Iii early 1980, his father was taken to the army base in Rukha along with some other elders of the town to meet the commander of the garrison. The commander wanted the elders of the town to pledge not to support the Mujahideen operating in the town. He asked Purdil Khan: "How many of your sons are fighting against us?". "Four of diem," replied the old man in calm but firm voice. "Where do they eat their daily meal?" the commander asked. "In my house, sir," replied the old man. Every body, including die commander of the garrison, smiled by the honest answers of the old man and appreciated his courage. Purdil Khan told the regime officer that if the government could not deal with the Mujahideen with all soldiers and guns at his disposal, how could he stop them while being an old man with no arms.
     Darab got married in 1983 and has four children. When asked what he was willing to do in the future, he replied: "I will consult Commander Masood before making my final decisions."
 nored the important ^
 Mujahideen in the riortb. The change
      £Sfl ■.I..__: :
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
Najib plays on Westerners' fear
     Najib, the head of the Soviet-installed Kabul regime, told an AP reporter in a recent interview that if the so-called fundamentalist parties came to power in Kabul, Afghanistan would turn into the center of drug and terrorism. He has asked the US and other Western countries to help him to contain the spread of fundamentalism after the fall of the Soviet Union.
     He tries to exploit the fear of Westerners from terrorism and drug which he blame the Islamist Mujahideen for its spread. He projects himself as the only effective force capable of containing religious fundamentalism and the spread of revolutionary Islam. The Kabul regime says that the so-called moderate Mujahideen parties are militarily weak and Zahir Shah has no organization of himself to provide an alternative to the regime. The only Mujahideen who are militarily strong and enjoy having fairly strong organizations are the fundamentalist Najib says that the Western interests are better saved under him rather the Mujahideen government
     Najib accuses the so-called fundamentalist Mujahideen parties of involvement in drug trafficking and terrorism. These accusations are not only aimed to frighten the outsiders from a Mujahideen government in Kabul but also are directed to create fear in the minds of people living in Kabul and other cities.
     The allegations of Mujahideen's involvement in drug business and terrorism needs detailed examination because some Western papers have also leveled similar charges against the Mujahideen.
      As far as international terrorism is concerned, the Afghan Mujahideen's hands are clean. In 13 years of war the Mujahideen have taken no action against their enemies, Soviet Union and the Kabul regime, outside their country and have not been accused of breaking the international law.
      On the contrary, Najib as the head of KHAD and then the president of the regime, has been involved in exporting terrorism to Pakistan which caused the death of hundreds of Afghans .and Pakistanis. The Kabul regime was found guilty of supporting terrorists who hijacked a PIA plane to Kabul. In retaliation, regime planes were barred from landing in West European countries.
      As far as political assassination of
 some. Afghan personalities in exile are concerned, one cannot point a finger towards a specific groups without having a proof. In all these incidents, KHAD has always been a suspect All the Mujahideen parties have condemned terroristic actions.
     Najib, with his criminal record, is not a credible person to accuse other of terroristic actions. He was the head of KHAD and has fired at least 1500 SCUD missiles against his own people.
     As far as the growth of opium is concerned, one should admit that Afghanistan is a main producer of opium. But to blame only the Mujahideen parties for that is not fair. Opium is grown in some border regions of Afghanistan. These areas are not controlled solely by the so-called fundamentalist parties. Involvement of the Mujahideen parties in this criminal business is not established and all the Mujahideen parties reject the allegations of their involvement.
     To combat drug production and trafficking effectively, one needs a comprehensive economic, security and political program. Formation of a representative government in Kabul will make it possible to begin an effective campaign against drug production. Most of the Mujahideen are aware of. the damage drug has caused to the rep-
 utation of the proud Afghan nation and danger drug poses to the younger generations. Some Mujahideen commanders have been prepared to wage a war against drug production and trade but such a move could have triggered armed clashes with undesirable consequences.
     The record of Islamist parties in fighting social evils, including illicit drugs, is quite good. In the areas effec lively controlled by these Mujahideen, trade and production of opium and hashish, sometime even tobacco, are totally banned.
     Therefore, the accusations of the regime that an Islamic government in Kabul increases drug production is baseless. On the contrary, in a traditional religious society the chances of Islamic government's success in combatting crimes are much brighter.
     After 15 years of communist role, hashish, alcohol and heroin has become part of the life of regime's security forces — army, militia and police.
     Contrary to what regime says, a government formed in Kabul by the Afghan Mujahideen will be the most effective administration which can fight the menace of drug. To the Islamic parties, fighting against drug is a religious duty and a form of Jehad.
Najib called liberator
     The Federal Minister for Railways of Pakistan Haji Ghulam Ahmad Bilour has praised the role of Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, in forcing the Soviets to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, Khaleej Times reported.
     Bilour whose Awami National Party (ANP) is a coalition partner of UT at the center and NWFP, said nobody could ignore Najibullah's place in the history of Afghanistan because he led his nation to get rid of both super powers.
     ANP is a supporter of the Kabul regime and has been criticizing Afghan Mujahideen since the beginning of Jehad. This party never criticized the Soviets for their invasion of Afghanistan.
     The views expressed by the ANP leader in support of Najib as the liberator of Afghanistan is quite interesting. Even Najib has not given himself the role that has been given to him by his Pakistani friends. On the contrary, Najib has been saying that he
 and his party have had committed mistakes but the time has come to forget the past.
     There are many other candidates that claim full or partial credit for withdrawal of Soviet troops in Afghanistan. Gorbachev is often given the credit for it because he called the Afghan war a "bleeding wound" and decided to withdraw Soviet troops from Afghanistan. But, he failed to end the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan and massive Soviet military support to the Kabul regime continued as long as he ruled in Moscow.
     The international support, moral and material, played an important role in the final victory of Afghans. The role of friendly countries like Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and, to some extent, Iran could not be ignored. The full credit for the liberation of Afghanistan goes to the Afghan Mujahideen whose sacrifices forced the Red Army to leave afghanis tan without winning the war.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 7, April 1,1992, page @
Afghan new year raises ne:
AMF leader seeks support for the Burmese Muslims
     Several Mujahideen leaders have roped that the new Afghan year would Ire witness to the return of peace and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The Afghan year of 1371 began on March 21.
     In his new year message. Prof. Rabbani said that the Mujahideen's victory in the historic province of Balkh, at the eve of the new year, was a good start He said the victory of the Mujahideen came at a time when the outside world had stopped giving support to them and even Jehad friends were showing to the Mujahideen the door of compromise with the Soviet-installed Kabul regime.
     Jami’at leader said the recent victories showed that Afghan Jehad was independent from influence of outside powers. "If the rest of the world close their doors to the face of the Mujahideen, the door of God will always remain open to them," he said.
     Prof. Rabbani asked the people of Afghanistan to pay no attention to the rumors of division among Afghans on ethnic lines and advised them to keep their unity and foil the plots designed to divide them. He said Jami'at was ready to give every sacrifice for the sake of preservation of the national unity.
     Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, also expressed hope that the war would end during the new year. Narrating the Afghan proverb that a good year could be predicted from its good spring, Najib said that the peace process which had begun will succeed.
  The proverb, however, can predict the end of regime during the year 1371. Three days before the start of the new year, Mazar-i-Sharif, the host of the yearly Tied Flower Festival', fell to the opponents of the regime and was fol lowed by other victories in other parts of Afghanistan.
     MohammatT Iqbal, the chairman of Arakan Mujahideen Front (AMF), has come to Pakistan to inform the people of Pakistan and Afghan Mujahideen leaders about the plight of Muslims in Arakan.
     He met with Prof. Rabbani in Peshawar and informed him about the current situations in Arakan and the exodus of about 300,000 Muslim refugees from Arakan to Bangladesh.
     Iqbal described the situation in Arakan as grave and stressed the need for moral and material support of Muslims and the rest of the world to alleviate the suffering of Arakan refugees.
     Sympathizing with the Arakan Muslims, Prof. Rabbani assured the AMF leader of his support.
     Talking to AFGHANews, Iqbal asked the Muslims to raise their voices in support of oppressed Muslims in Arakan. He said Muslims in Arakan have become a target of suppression because they resisted the moves by military junta in Rangoon to change their culture and religion.
     The AMF leader said Islam came to Arakan in 768 and Muslims formed their first government in Arakan in 1430. Farsi was the official language of Arakan state till 1845.
     Oppression of Muslims in Burma intensified when Rangoon started to
Condolence message
   Jami'at leader has condoled and sympathized with victims of the earthquake which struck the city of Eizmcan on March 13. About 600 people were killed and hundreds were injured in this natural disaster. In a message to the government of Turkey, Prof. Rabbani said he and the rest of the Afghan Mujahideen shared the grief of the people and government of Turkey over the tragedy.
 impose socialism on them in 1962 Systematic suppression of Muslims led to the influx of about 300,000 Muslims from Arakan         to
 Bangladesh in 1978. Later,
 200,000 of these refugees were repatriated.
     More than 3.5 million Muslims live in Arakan who form 55% of the population of the region.
     AMF is one of the three mam groups struggling for restoration of the rights of the Muslims in Arakan. The leader of AMF took part in the OIC’s conference on Muslim minorities in Jeddah in 1982.
     Iqbal praised the efforts of Bangladesh government in support of Arakan refugees.
     The Muslims in Arakan sympa thize with Afghan Mujahideen and are inspired by their historic resistance against the Red Army. Some youths from Arakan even have visited the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan and been martyred in Afghanistan.
     Those interested to get more information about Muslims in Arakan can write to:
     Post Office Box 535 Chittagong - Bangladesh
 Attention: South-East Asia and Pacific readers
    The representation of Afghan Mujahideen (JIA) in Australia has provided the following opportunity for you to share in the suffering of Afghan people:
   Provide wheelchairs and crutches
    One of the important and urgent requirements of the JIA's Supervisory Council is to provide 300 pairs of crutches and 50 wheelchairs for the new victims of war. According to the council, one pair of metal crutches is estimated 750 Rupees (Aus $45) and an average wheelchair is estimated 2500 Rupees (Aus $150).
    With the help of generous donations JIA Australia office has so far provided 20 wheelchairs and 100 pairs of crutches. For the remaining, generous donations are welcomed.
    Please deposit your donation to:
    Afghan Mujahideen Projects Fund Account No. 548 632 564 Branch No 012006 ANZ BANK
    Or make your cheque/bankdraft payable to:
    Afghan Mujahideen Projects Fund and send it to GPO Box 3098 Sydney 2001 Australia
    for enquiries contact (02) 759 8013
                                             AFGHANews Vol8, No 7, April 1,1992, page ©
UN’s Afghan train put on new tracks
                             Najib’s announcement that he Afghanistan. Such a request by the re-
was ready to hand over all powers of the state to an interim government formed through the UN peace process and that he will not insist on his own participation in the process was seen by the UN as a breakthrough. The UN has suggested modification of its peace plan to hasten the process.
     The announcement came one day after the fall of Mazar, the second most important city controlled by the regime.
     The UN Secretary-General, US, Pakistan and Zahir Shah welcomed the announcement describing it a major step towards achievement of peace.
     The Mujahideen leaders were not enthusiastic about Najib's offer. Prof. Mujaddidi hoped that Najib was honest in his statement Other Mujahideen leaders said Najib's statement was imposed on him by the developments and his resignation alone was not enough. They made it clear that no member of Watan Party was acceptable to them.
     Najib also delivered the list of 150 men that he wanted to-see the proposed assembly and the list, according to Kabul radio, included the name of Watan Party members.
     The head of the regime made his statement after intensive consultation with the party members in the government and the security forces.
     When Sevan was busy discussing the result of his trip to Kabul with the Pakistani and the Mujahideen leaders, he was asked by Najib to return to Kabul and discuss his plan with the members of the Central Committee of the Watan Party. When he was in Kabul, a huge explosion rocked Kabul, which was followed by gunfire close to the palace of Najib and Balahisar Fort Firing continued at least for one hour. The Mujahideen sources reported that the hard-liners, opposed to the political solution, were responsible for the incident. The Kabul regime denied the report of infighting and attributed the explosion to fire which spread to an ammunition dump
     Sevan was still negotiating with Najib in Kabul when situation in the north deteriorated. Roadblocks disturbed supply of food and fuel to Kabul causing prices of essential goods to rise sharply.
     Soaring prices caused by roadblocks forced some members of the Watan Party to suggest stationing of the UN peace-keeping force in
gime will be vigorously opposed by the Mujahideen who refuse to stop fighting against the regime. The Mujahideen say that they will cooperate in search for a political settlement but continue to exert military pressure on the regime.
     The former king and his supporters who view the UN plan as unique opportunity for returning to power in the country were alarmed by the recent developments in the north. In an interview with BBC, the former king has criticized, for the fust time, what he called an irresponsible minority group and some countries who might prevent the peace progress.
     After the second round of his visit to Kabul, Sevan said he wanted to hasten the peace process so that the chances for peace are not lost. He wants to abandon his multi-stage peace process in favor of a one-stage gathering to formulate the modality for an interim government
     Developments in Mazar-i-Sharif forced the Mujahideen to intensify their consultations to find a consensus formula for the formation of an alternative administration to replace the Najib.
     Taking to reporters in Kabul, Sevan criticized some Mujahideen leaders for allowing foreign individuals to speak on behalf of the Afghan people. It was an indirect reference to the statements issued by Qazi Hussain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, in support of some Mujahideen leaders who oppose the UN plan. Sevan said UN was trying to end foreign intervention in Afghanistan. It seems however that Sevan does not mind intervention by foreign individuals who support the UN plan. He has not criticized the statements made by Wali Khan, a Pakistani politician, in support of the Kabul regime.
                                    ftTQOiMfezus zinshes a happy cEid-uC-J:itre to its 9/CusCims readers
Editorial
                                         From page (4)
cusing some Mujahideen parties Of involvement in activities of ethnic nature is a peculiar thing that raises questions about intentions of its authors. What Jami'at and some other Mujahideen have done is that they exploited the dispute among the regime factions to take the military initiative in their own hands. Liberation of many districts and half of Mazar must be a good news to those who like to see the imminent fall of the regime.
   Foreign countries and international organizations involved in Afghanistan should avoid taking such steps that give false hope to the dieing regime of Najibullah. Any attempt to give undue importance to the Kabul regime in the political process aimed at solving the issue will prolong the sufferings of the people and solution of the issue.
Iran criticizes UN aid policy
   An Iranian official has complained that the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has spent more money for Afghan refugees in Pakistan and less on the Afghan refugees in Iran.
   An official in charge of the refugees of Iran's interior ministry Haji Arab said in a press interview in Teheran that between 1983-90, UNHCR allocated $84,812,000 for Afghan refugees whereas during the same period it spent $406,513,000 for Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
   He alleged that political motives had affected the UNHCR’s decisions.
   The UNHCR began its services in Iran in 1983 with a limited program and slightly increased its aid to the Afghan refugees in 1987. He expressed the hope that international organizations would consider the issue of Afghan refugees in Iran more seriously.
   Help us publish AFGHANews!
                                    Please send your donations to the following account number:
         JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd.
   Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan
Vol 8, No 8
Salang, Charikar
   After major victories in the north, the Mujahideen^ of Jami'at, under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood, scored another important victory close to Kabul when they captured South Salang, Jabulseraj District and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan Province.
   The Mujahideen captured all the regime posts in South Salang on April
13.
   On April 14, captured Jabulseraj and Charikar, 50 kilometers north of the capital. The Mujahideen are advancing towards Bagram Air Base about 30 kilometers north of Kabul
   The Mujahideen have captured at least 60 tanks and huge quantities of arms and ammunitions of different types. No details were available when this report was filed.
   Masood has praised the support given by the local people, some army units and government officers in Charikar to the Mujahideen.
   AFGHANews learned from sources within the Supervisory Council that: Commander Masood has mobilized a large force and has planned major at tacks on other enemy targets. Details of the fighting will published in the next
statement
    Boutros Ghali, the UN General Secretary, announced in Geneva on April 10 that all the parties involved in the Afghan conflict had reached an agreement on the formation of a pretransition council comprised of 15 impartial personalities.
    He said ceasefire and general amnesty will be announced once the the council is formed.
    The announcement pleased foreign countries interested in Afghanistan. Pakistan, Iran and US welcomed the announcement.
    The Mujahideen, however, disputed the announcement saying that no unanimous agreement was reached on the issue. They also expressed worry about selection of the 15 members of the council from among the various lists provided to the UN by different groups — Mujahideen, pro-Zahir Shah people and the Kabul regime.
    The Mujahideen sources revealed the list of 15 members of the council selected by UN. Most of them were supporters of the former king.
    Disputing the contents of the UN announcement, the Mujahideen reported that in last meeting, held between
 the Mujahideen and Sevan, two leaders — Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khalis — were not present pome other leaders had tied their approval of the plan to some conditions. Jami'at had not provided the list of its candidates for the membership of the council to the UN envoy.
     The opposition of the Mujahideen to the announcement forced Mr. Sevan to issue a statement denying that he had selected the members of die council. The statements said no foreignercan impose a solution on Afghans who have knight for 13 years to get their right of self-determination.
     Informed sources said some of those whose names were revealed as the member of the council have anived in Pakistan and other have been issued visas to join the team. If there were no selection of die members of the council, as Sevan claims, who then invited them to come to Pakistan?
     The Mujahideen leaders are being busy to prepare the list of impartial personalities ( acceptable to them. Prof. Sayyaf and Mawlawi Khalis sent their reprsentative to the talks.
                 To page (2).
April 15,1992
us, PAKISTAN FEED KABUL
    Pakistan and US have decided to send food to Kabul to prevent further deterioration of the situation in the Afghan capital and to help the UN peace process.
    The UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali has called for sending 30,000 tonnes of food to Kabul. Pakistan and the US will provide 10,000 tonnes of wheat each.
    Pakistan's military planes have begun airlifting wheat to Kabul and so far, have transported 180 tonnes. The rest is planned to be send by road.
    The Government of Pakistan has said the decision to sent food to Kabul was taken on humanitarian grounds. It is reported that the UN has borrowed the food from Pakistan. A senior officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan has said the food is sent to Kabul to calm down the situation and give time for the UN peace plan. The UN Special Envoy on Afghanistan Benon Sevan told BBC that sending food to Kabul was not just a humanitarian task. Its main aim was to help the peace process, he said.
      Due to problems in die former Soviet Union, transportation of food to Kabul became a difficult task and -Russia stopped sending of food supply to Kabul because of problems at home Prom die wheat promised by Kazakhstan, only a fraction pf that reached the border town of Hayratan. Winter and road blocks due to tension between Kabul and the militia forces disrupted transportation of food'from Mazar to Kabul. These factors pushed the prices of food very high in Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan. Kabul market has never been short of food but the high price made the available food beyond the reach of ordinary people.
    At the end of March, the Economic Minister of the Kabul re-
 (I
To page (7)
 ;

   v*.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©

 • PK machineguns: 15
 ■ Kalashnikov rifles: 1500
 • Generator. 1
 • Large quantities of ammunition
 Samangan Province
    The former governor of Samangan and some officers of Division No. 80 of Kayan were killed when the helicopter carrying them from Aybak to Baghlan exploded in midair on April 6. Division No. 80 belongs to Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan who revolted against the Kabul regime along with ‘ Dostum militiamen.
J
  Herat Province
      The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured Herat Cement Factory and liberated Rubat-i-Afghan Ha, Qala-i-Safar Khan, Qala-i-Khwaja Ha, Qala-i-Yadgar, Qala-i-Ghaugha, Qala-i-Depadeh, Kushk . Bad-i-Sabah and Depadeh-i-Khurd villages on March 27, Commander Ismail Khan reported. These village are located west of the city of Herat They killed 20 enemy troops and more than 400 others were captured. The Mujahideen seized the following items from the enemy:
  • Construction machines: 150
  • Armored cars: 2
  • Truck 1
  • Kalashnikov rif\es: 301
  • Goryunov machineguns: 20
  • RPG-7 rocket launchers: 20
  • ZPU-1 machineguns: 8
  • DSchK machinegun: 1
      • The Mujahideen attacked security posts of the regime on Herat-lslam Qala road, west of the city of Herat, on April 7, destroying 15 posts in Rubat Paryan, Mamizak, Taqi Naqi and Deh Surkh villages. They seized 120 Kalashnikov rifles, five ZPU-1 machineguns, three mortars, ten trucks and onejoyota car and destroyed one lank. ‘Db^ehs-of enemy troops surrendered to the Mujahideen. A section of Herat-lslam Qala road, connecting Herat with Iran, came under control of the' Mujahideen.
 Wali the commander of police unit along with 300 soldiers defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at on March 28, Commander Mullah Shams reported. They brought with them two tanks and several hundred light and heavy weapons. Commander Tooryalai, locally known as Toor, was a commander of Hezb Islami controlling Baladory, an area between Baghlaq. and Pul-i-Khumri. He clashed with other Hezb Islami commanders in the area. Infighting forced him to join first NIFA and then the Kabul regime.'
 Kandahar Province
    Two militiamen were killed, five were captured and one mortar, one ZPU-1 machinegun, one PK machine-gun, six Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunitions, were seized when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Pashfoon Bagh area on March 25.
 Faryab Province
    Militia Commander Jofa and 28 of his men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Pashtoon Kot District on March 25, Mawlawi Yousuf reported. They brought with them . 25 Kalashnikov rifles, one PK machine-gun, one RPG rocket launcher and one radio set
 Jawzjan Province
 UN statement
                                           From Page (1)
                                                                                    reprsentative to the talks.
    Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, welcomed the UN Secretary-General's announcement.
    The UN is facing a new situation after the fall of Chafikar and Bagram Air Base. The peace process and war efforts are in race. It would be interesting to see which one will reach its destination first
 AIG teachers receive salary
    The Ministry of Education of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) has started paying salaries to its 1322 teachers who are running 200 schools in Peshawar, a ministry source reported.
    The source said due to shortages of funds teachers had not received their salaries since last September.
    Lack of funds had forced the AIG to consider closing of its schools but donation by Saudi Arabia kept them open, at least for a while. The US government has started to pay the salaries of professional personnel of the ministry and cost of stationery of its schools.
 Afghanistan unsafe for Americans
                                                                              US State Department on April 6
  Baghlan Province
     •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post near Jauhar Tapa of Hasantal, close to the city of Baghlan, on March 24, capturing the post and seizing nine Kalashnikov rifles, one Goryunov machinegun, one PK machinegun and one RPG rocket launcher. Commander Abdul Hay Haqjo reported.
     •    Tooryalai, the commander of KHAD unit, Sar Boland, the commander of police Battalion and Mohammad
    The Battalion No. 9 of militias in Sar-i-Pul District was captured by-the the Mujahideen of Jami'at on March 30, Qazi Yasin reported.
    More than 300 soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen-bringing with them the following items:
•  Armored cars: 2
■ Vehicles of different types: 26
•  R-118 radio set: 1
•  Anti-aircraft guns (23 mm): 4
•  Mortars: 4 ■ x
•  Howitzers (76mm): 6
•  ZPU-1 and DSchK machineguns: 30
 advised US citizens not to travel to Afghanistan for security reasons.
     "Westerners are vulnerable to politically and criminally motivated attacks and violence," the statement said. Risks in Afghanistan were heightened due to fighting between regime and the Mujahideen, in addition to rivalries between resistance groups and rebellions by government militias, the statement said.
     The US embassy in Kabul was closed, on January 31, 1989.
AFGHANews Vol8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Council
     Mohammad Yunus Qanuni, the representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar, has rejected the allegations that the Mujahideen activities in the north were separatist moves.
     In a press conference held in Peshawar on March 30, he said that the allegations leveled by some individual Afghans that developments in the north were motivated by ethnic factors were baseless.
     Giving background information to the reporters, Qanuni said the Kabul regime had been suffering from internal tension among its different armed groups since a long time.
     Given details of these differences, he said Najib wanted to purge his army from officers whom he suspected their loyalty. Not only he transfered 20 generals from their posts, Najib rotated some of the army units that he thought woe loyal to his opponents within the Watan Party.
     Qanuni said when Najib ordered transfer of General Momen from Hayratan in mid January, his opponents were alarmed and tried to resist the move. Momen was encouraged by them to defy the transfer order. The two militia groups of Sayyed Kayan and Rashid Dostum supported Momen because his transfer would have weakened their own positions.
     He said relations between the army chief in' the north, Juma Asek, and the two militia groups deteriorated when the militias suffered heavy losses in fighting in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad with the Mujahideen last Spring. The militias considered the war, under the command of Asek, as a conspiracy against themselves.
     Qanuni said Najib reacted violently to the reaction of Momen and militia groups farcing them to contact the Mujahideen. Later, Najib softened his position by transfering Juma Asek from his post in return for the transfer of Momen from his Hayratan post. Hie opponents of Najib were happy by the transfer of Asek but continued to resist Najib's demand to transfer Momen. Najib retaliated by re-appointing Jumfl Asek to his previous post of the commander of northern theater, making the rebel forces more suspicious about his intentions.
     The representative of the council said Jami'at Mujahideen had prepared themselves to exploit the new developments and tension between militia groups that formed the most effective part'of the regime defense forces and
 the regime army had provided the Mujahideen with a good opportunity.
      He said Commander Masood ordered military operations in Balkh and in Samangan in the second week of March. The Mujahideen won major quick victories. This was possible because the militia forces remained neutral in fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime forces.
      Qanuni said Jami'at was in control of all districts of Balkh and major parts of the city of Mazar. They were negotiating with the rebel militias for the creation of an administration to provide security for Mazar.
      "Afghans inside and outside the country welcomed the Mujahideen's victories. The victories were received well by all ordinary Afghans irrespective of their party affiliation and ethnic origin," Qanuni said.
      He regretted that some Afghan individuals viewed the Mujahideen's victories in the north as a separatist move. These allegations have no foundation.
 he declared.
     Qanuni elaborated that there were two sources which indulged in such a propaganda: die Kabul regime and some people who thought the victories posed a threat to UN peace plan. Those who considered the UN peace plan as a vehicle for their personnel power saw the Mujahideen's victories as a threat to their ambitions.
     He emphasized that military operations of the Mujahideen posed no threat to the political solution of the problem, but in the contrary, they would expedite the solution of the problem.
     Qanuni argued that the main obstacle on the way of peace was the Kabul regime and any move to weaken the regime improved the prospects of an early solution. The recent victories of the Mujahideen in the north forced Najib to gave an undertaking to hand over the power to an interim administration.
     Qanuni said ethnic and linguistic differences were problems within the regime but some individuals have tried, for their own political benefits, to generalize it by accusing some Mujahideen of involving in such activities.
                                                                        •••
     Some Mujahideen commanders had expressed concern about what they called it the spread of regional and ethnic feelings in the rank of some Mujahideen in the north.
     Amin Wardak, a commander of Hezb Islami Khalis, has acted as the spokesman of the group to project these worries. A press release in this connec tion was distributed from the office of Abdul Haq while he himself was out of Pakistan. Although the press release die not name the Mujahideen party in volved in ethnic game, bu it was understood that the target was Jamt’ajL
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15, 1992, page’ 0
  Editorial
    While the peace efforts have reached a critical stage, the Mujahideen have won major victories close to the capital. Prospect for a solution of the Afghan problems has become brighter than any other time.
    The peace efforts by the UN and Mujahideen activities have the same final aim - replacing the illegal regime of Kabul with a representative government that is able to provide security in the country and fulfil its international obligations.
    When the former UN Secretary General announced a five-point formula for a political settlement of the Afghan issue, a stalemate situation prevailed in the country. -
    The most important part of the plan was convening an intra-Afghan dialogue between the two sides in the conflict. Since the Mujahideen were not ready to talk with the Kabul regime, the UN proposed a plan based on which third-ranking member of ,the resistance and the regime were supposed to meet and evolve a way for the formation and composition of a transitional government in Kabul.
    Developments since the beginning of the current year, has dramatically changed the situation in Afghanistan. Cut of foreign aid and plagued by internal problems, the regime began to lose ground rapidly to the Mujahideen. The fall of Mazar in the north and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, has provided the Mujahideen with an opportunity to besiege the capital.
    Worried about the developments, the UN envoy has proposed a short-cut to save his plan. UN and the rest of world seem worried that the fall of Kabul to the Mujahideen might lead to lawlessness and instability in the country. The residence of Kabul, influenced by ten years of Soviets and the regime propaganda, seemed worried too.
    The orderly handling of the situation in Mazar and popular support for resistance in Charikar have helped in decreasing such fears. Prof. Rabbani has said a good example is set and cities liberated by Mujahideen will be safe.
    Now that the Mujahideen are fighting for control of Bagram Air Base and Kabul is within the range of their heavy artillery, peace formula should reflect the new realities. Najib should be persuaded to abandon power and should not try force the Mujahideen to launch attack on Kabul.
    The efforts by the Mujahideen to form a council to facilitate transfer of power to a Mujahideen government are not wasted. An agreement that enjoys the support of major Mujahideen parties will help the Mujahideen to run the country properly and makes holding of elections possible.
    The Mujahideen victories might be a source of worry for the supporters of the former king who expected to play a major role in the transitional period. They will not get what they expected, but the Mujahideen will treat every Afghan citizen properly and they will be allowed tb play a pile in the reconstruction and political life of the country.
    As the Mujahideen advance towards Kabul, the responsibility of Jehad leaders increases. They should forge unity among themselves so that they can work together to take Afghanistan out of the current crises. Jami'at is ready to cooperate with all Mujahideen parties towards achieving this aim.
    The victories of the Mujahideen came at a time when foreign aid to them was cut and even they were under pressure from the international community to compromise with the communists. Perhaps this is the will of God to give the fill! credit of final Victory to the Mujahideen. After 13 years of armed struggle, they deserve leadership of the country.
      Everyone interested in developments of Afghanistan most have been hearing the name of General Momen since January of the current year. Many Afghans at home and abroad had not heardof him before.
      What made him famous overnight was his defiance of Najib's order to remove him from his post as the commander of Hayiatan ganison. Najib had become worried about Momen's control on the strategic town on Uzbekistan border and wanted to replace him with one of his own trusted men. The opposition of Momen to Najib resulted in dramatic developments in the north of Afghanistan accelerating the pace of regime's disintegration.,
      Who is Momen?
      Abdul Momen, 36, was bom in Pashaie village of Qasan, Andarab District, BaghJan Province.
      His father, Abdul Hamid, was a poor man who died when Momen was just five years old. His unde took care of him.
      After graduation from Qasan primary school, Momen studied Kabul Military School. He proved to be a good student. After graduation from the military faculty, he first served in Ghazni and then in Jalalabad. He dashed with Shah Nawaz Tanai, the then defense minister of the regime, when he worked in Helmand. The fight cost him his job. After Tanai’s abortive coup, he was posted in^lazar.
      A Mujahid from Andarab who knew Momen said he was helping the people of his valley, Andarab, no matter to which side of the conflict he or she bdonged During his service in Jalalabad, he helped refugees families from Andarab to cross the border into Pakistan.', Momen was described by him as a capable officer. He was wounded in fighting with Mujahideen leaving him with a slightly deformed hand Abdul Hakim, one of his brothers, was killed in fighting with the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Salangin 1984..
      Momen spent six months in the former Soviet Union during the occupation of Afghanistan, perhaps, to attend training classes. His party affiliation could not be traced but it seems that he was affiliated to Paicham faction because a non-party officer could not have reachedhis position.
      The Mujahid from Andarab said Momen tried to contact the Mujahideen and elders of Andarab during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan many times. The contact was never made because some Mujahideen were opposed to the idea. Due to lack of an effective organiza tion, the Mujahideen of Andarab could not exploit such opportunities. It is not dear, however, that Moment warned to persuade the. Mujahideen to abandon resistance or he wanted to assure them of his support
      ft is believed that he is just a player on stage and those directing the drama are setting in Kabul.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, -April 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mir Alam
     Mir Alam,39, is one of the main Jami'at commanders in Kunduz Province who leads more than 1,000 armed Mujahideen near the city of Kunduz. He is famous for his military operations against the Soviet and the Kabul regime's forces and provision of security for the people living under his control.
     He has taken part in numerous operations and has been wounded four times. Here are the accounts of a few of his operations:
     He played an important role in the liberation of the Kunduz city in the Summer of 1988. Soviet troops had left the city. The Mujahideen of Mir Alam launched an attack against an enemy post. The quick fall of the post tempted them to continue fighting which led to the fall of other post and surrender of enemy units. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties also joined the fighting when they saw that the victory was close.The Kabul regime recaptured the city after one week with the help of Soviet air force. Since the Mujahideen had not planned the liberation of Kunduz, some people indulged in looting of the town. The Mujahideen tried to stop them but did not succeed.
     In 1990, the Kabul regime launched a massive attack to dislodge Mir Alain’s Mujahideen from'the areas close to the road connecting Kunduz with Shir Khan Bander on the Soviet border. In two weeks of fighting the regime was only able to capture one village-and one small hill after suffering heavy casualties.
     In 1983, Mir Alam repulsed a Soviets attack destroying seven tanks and killing 20 Soviet soldiers. Seventeen Mujahideen, including Commander Taza Khan, were martyred in this operation..
     Commander Mir Alam controls 40 villages in northeast of the Kunduz city. The area is very fertile and populated. A dirt road, connecting Kunduz with Khanabad District, passes through this area. Despite presence of a- metal road between Kunduz and Khanabad, merchant prefer to use the dirt road be-
 cause it is secure and Mujahideen do not collect tolls from vehicles using the road.
                         Mir Alam began Jehad immediately after the April coup of 1978. He left his job as a mechanic and joined the Mujahideen. Since Kunduz was under control of the communists, he and some of his friends went to Andarab and Nahrin in Baghlan > Province where the Mujahideen had began an armed struggle. He later joined Harakat-i-Inqilab of Mohammadi political party and fought under Amir Ghulam. Their base was located in Foloul, Burka sub-District from where they launched operations in and around the city of Kunduz.
      Amir Ghulam was killed in an internal clash in 1987 and its place was taken by his deputy. Commander Sarwar. When Sarwar was killed in fighting with the Soviet troops some weeks later, the Mujahideen appointed Mir Alam as their leader.
      Mir Alam consolidated his position quickly. Jamaluddin, his representative in Peshawar, said Mir Alam learned from the mistakes of his predecessors and tried to correct them. He established fixed centers, Qarargahs, for his Mujahideen where they were provided with meal. Before that, the Mujahideen were fed by the local people. It was a burden on the local people and harmful to the dignity of the Mujahideen. He began to spend the tax collected from the people to support his Mujahideen. These measures and fighting against the enemy made him popular among the people.
      Mir Alam has good relations with the commanders from other groups and has not been involved in internal fighting with other Mujahideen.
      Due to problems within Harakat, he has not been able to receive enough weapons from abroad. But he has captured five armored cars and tanks, seven howitzers and many other weapons which he has been using them against the Kabul regime.
      Mir Alam began to cooperate with
 (I
To page (8)
' Prot Ludwig , Adamec* • m several books on Afghanistan, told
 ; Soviets artd|thb:         regime
  ^    .    i .K^hhad,^\inin, on
 February 9. The exMbitioh,organized
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :x:
 ||ned in Islamabad on March 26 be-

                                             AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Jami'at to share power with other resistance parties: Prof. Rabbani
     Q. Who was responsible for killing of Prof. Ahmad Zai?
     A. Assassination of Prof. Ahmad Zai, a prominent member of Jami'at and an old member of the Islamic Movement, was a great loss to the Mujahideen. This is the work of the enemies of the Islamic Movement and those who were worried about the victories of the Mujahideen. Circles opposed to formation of an Islamic government wanted to deprive the Movement from the intellectuals who guarded the ideological frontiers of the Islamic Movement. We . consider this incident a dangerous plot against the Movement
     Q. Tell our reader: about the latest yictories of the Mujahideen?
     A. The Mujahideen achieved a major victory in the~ north. Developments in the north has deprived the Kabul regime from a hope to recapture the ground it lost to the Mujahideen. We see signs of disintegration of the regime and hope similar activities will take place in other parts of Afghanistan.
     The Mujahideen have also scored major victories in Herat and now have reached the parameters of the city. We hope to hear the good news of Mujahideen's further victories. ,
     Q. The UN wants to from an interim administration by the end of the month. Do you expect the fall of the Kabul regime through military means or there is still a need for interim administration?           1
     A. Although we support the UN efforts to bring peace in Afghanistan, I should mention the following points; The UN plan was designed to bring peace in Afghanistan at a time that the Kabul regime seemed to have a chance of survival. Developments of the past few weeks have changed the situation dramatically. Both the Mujahideen and the UN should reconsider their plan for a political solution and must adjust themselves to the new realities. The UN had considered regime as a party in the conflict in its plan but how that regime is disintegrating, it must not be considered a party.
     The main problem is now arrangements for the security of the cities controlled by the regime. A government should be formed to provide security for these areas. Such a government must be formed by the Mujahideen.
 All the state powers should be trans-fered to this government.
     About the proposed interim government, Jami'at believes it could act as a mean to transfer power from the Kabul regime to a government formed by the Mujahideen. This administration should be set up for only a few weeks.
     Jami'at has proposed that KHAD, special guard and police forces of the regime should be dissolved and all communist officers be removed from the army. The Mujahideen forces, should be stationed in strategic locations in Kabul as part of the arrangement for transfer of power. The member of the transitional administration should be chosen by the Mujahideen.
     Q. Some people think that Jami'at is making use of delaying tactics in dealing with the UN to buy time for military overthrow of the Kabul regime. What is your answer to this-accusation?
     A. Jami'at believe in continuation of armed struggle to overthrow the illegal regime of Najib. Military operations are need to get rid of the warmongering elements. These operations speed up the settlement of the problem and help the political efforts.
     While we fight alone, we do not have any intention to monopolize the power. We want all the people of Afghanistan, especially, the Mujahideen parties to participate in future government of Afghanistan.
     While holding of elections will provide an opportunity for the participation of all Afghans, even during the transitional period, a council composed of the representatives of all Mujahideen parties to supervise function of the transitional government is a good thing.
     Q. The UN envoy seems worried about the recent victories of the Mujahideen. What is the reason for this wotry?
     A. I am also surprised by his attitude towards the Mujahideen victories. The UN envoy must be neutral and try to avoid tilting towards one side or the other. We are witness, unfortunately, to the activities aimed at protection of Najib and its criminal friends. Overthrow of the illegal regime of Kabul helps the UN plan and the UN officials need- not to worry if Afghans do the job of solving the issue themselves.
   ■ Q. What is your position on sup-
 ply of wheat to Kabul by Pakistan government?
     A. We are not opposed to food supply for the people of Afghanistan, in Kabul and other parts of the country. But, we have reservations about the current program for the following reasons:
     This indicates a change in Pakistan policy. The decision to send food to Kabul was taken hastily its negative effect on Jehad was hot considered. Before sending food to Kabul, the UN should have checked the supply situation in Kabul. The Kabul regime has stored enough supplies for its army and party members. The UN should have distributed the present supplies in Kabul before airlifting wheat from Pakistan or other parts of the world. We get reports that even the UN food supplies in Kabul are being used by the regime to feed its army. Under these circumstances sending food is not proper step.
     It seems that the UN wants to calm down the civilian population who were raising against the Kabul regime due to its wrong policies. We do not know how the UN will prevent Najib from misusing the food sent for the ordinary Afghans.
     Moreover, Kabul is not the only place where the people are facing food shortages. We do not any activity by UN to help other Afghans, living in the countryside, with the same level of urgency.
     Najib is the source of all problems in Afghanistan. Any step that prolongs the life of Najib and encourages him and his criminal friends to stay longer should be avoided.
     Q. Some persons have reported
 that Jami'at commanders have helc discussions with officials of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Is it true and what was the purpose of such a meeing?
     A. Uzbekistan and Tajikistan were worried that the Mujahideen should not pose any threat to their security. A Mujahideen delegation met with a joint delegation of the two republics along the border to inform them about the position of Mujahideen. The Mujahideen told them that their victory was not posing any threat to the neighboring countries. The Mujahideen wanted good neighborly relation with all of their neighbors and have no intention of interfering in the affairs of them.
                                                 AFGHANey/s Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page Q
                                    us, PAKISTAN pEED KABUL
                                                             From page (1)
     The food sent by Pakistan and US is said to be distributed by the Red Crescent Society of the regime and supervised by the UN officers.
     Sevan also asked Iran to send food aid to Kabul which was accepted. Iran had already launched its own relief program in Afghanistan. Several hundred tonnes of food was sent to Bamyan by air to be distributed by Hezb Wahdat, a Mujahideen Shia party based in Tehran. Some food was also sent directly to Kabul. '
     The demonstrations against price tikes in a hospital, in Pul-i-Charkhi prison and some parts of the city worried the UN negotiator that the situation might get out of hand. UN works for an orderly transfer of power from the current regime to a neutral administration.
     Negotiations between the Mujahideen and Pakistani officials arc underway for opening Jalalabad road for food convoys to Kabul. The Mujahideen have resisted opening of the road so far, arguing that the UN was not treating the liberated areas controlled by the Mujahideen like Kabul. They also have criticized the UN for reducing food supply .to refugees in Pakistan.
     Most of the Mujahideen leaders have expressed worry about the negative affect of food aid from Pakistan on their struggle to topple Najib. Sending food to Kabul is the most obvious example of change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. The leaders are also worried that the food might be used to strengthen regime.
     Reliable sources in Kabul say that 8,000 tonnes of the UN food, stored in the Silo in Kabul, was confiscated by the regime and used to feed its army. The food was intended to feed women, old men and children of the poorest section of the people in Kabul. The UN officials did not criticize the regime publicly for this action.
     Most of the Mujahideen leaders have said they are not opposed to giving food to the poor people but do not trust impartiality of the UN officials in charge of distribution. They also complain that the UN have never treated the people in the liberated areas with the same level of sympathy despite the fact that life in the countryside was as bad as in Kabul.
 Obituary
Mohammad Jan Ahmadzai
     Prof. Mohammad Jan Ahmad Zai, the head of the financial committee of Jami'at and a prominent, member of the Islamic Movement, was assassinated by unknown gunmen on April 2 in Pabi refugee camp outside Peshawar.
     Ahmad Zai was going to mosque to offer morning prayers when two men armed with pistols attacked him outside his house.
 He was seriously wounded and later died in the hospital.
 The attackers managed to escape. So far, no one has been arrested in connection to this incident.
     The news of Prof. Ahmad Zai's assassination shocked members of Jami'at and all those who know him.
     His funeral was attended by thousands of refugees and Mujahideen. Ahmad Zai will be remembered for a long time because of his good manners, piety, and services to Jehad.
     Prof. Rabbani called the death of Ahmad Zai a great loss to the Mujahideen.
     Ahmad Zai was an expert on Hadith and Tafsir and taught in Jehad University run by Ittihad Islami Party. He also translated the Holy Quran in the mosque of the camp since many years.
     Ahmad Zai was an intellectual who had dedicated his life in defense of the ideological frontiers of the Islam. He worked hard to forge unity among the factions of the Islamic Movement and had held important positions in many alliances formed by the Mujahideen parties.
     He had written many articles about different aspects of Islam and translated several books written by the Islamic scholars into Persian and Pashtu. He was a good calligrapher.
     Ahmad Zai was bom 35 years ago in a Pushtoon family in Surkhab of Mohammad Agha District, Logar Province. His father, Haji Sulaiman, was a farmer. He joined the Islamic movement when was a student student. After graduating from the Faculty of Islamic Law of the Kabul University, he became an associated professor in the same faculty.
     Late Ahmad Zai migrated to Pakistan immediately after the communist coup of 1978 and became a mem-
 ber of the Executive Council of Jami'at Islami.
     He was a soft-spoken person who got angry rarely. His good manners had earned him respect beyond the party lines. Prof. Ahmad Zai's revivalist ideas, however, provoked the                    traditional
 Ulamas.' But he always treated them with respect and argued with them in a nice way.
     During the Haj season of 1991, Ahmad Zai led a delegation of the Mujahideen invited by the Muslim World League. He gave several speeches in the gatherings of Hajis from all over the world informing them about the situation in Afghanistan.
     He was opposed to the return of Zahir Shah as a ruler and criticized some Mujahideen leaders for taking a pro-Saddam stand during the Gulf crises.
     He is left behind a widow and many children.
     Hiis is the second professor of Jehad University and member of Jami'at killed by terrorists within one year. Prof. Khatibi was killed by unknown men in Peshawar about one year ago.
      Prof. Rabbani had said on that occasion that terrorists being unsatisfied with the killing of human beings had turned their guns towards the angles. Prof. Ahmad Zai; like Khatibi, was a human being, but possessed the qualities of good Muslims. Ma/Allah peace and blessings shower on them both.
     A meeting was organized by Jami'at, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Ittihad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) outside Peshawar on April 12 to honor his services for the cause of Jehad.
     More than 10,000 people took part in the meeting. Several Mujahideen leaders spoke on the occasion. They paid rich tributes to Ahmad Zai and called his death a great loss. The meet ing was opened with recitation from holy Quran by Ahmad Zai's oldest son.
     They condemned assassination of Ahmad Zai and blamed the enemies of Islam and Jehad for the tragedy.
      Arab and Pakistani supporters of the Mujahideen and diplomats from Iran also attended the meeting.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Masood predicts fall of Kabul to
     Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood has said the situation in Afghanistan was rapidly changing in favor of the Mujahideen and time was approaching for a decisive action against the puppet regime in Kabul.
     Talking to the reporter of Mujahid (a weekly paper published by Jami'at) from his base in Panjshir, he said the decisive victories of Jami'at Mujahideen in the north and Herat have helped the quick disintegration of the Kabul regime.
     In reply to the question that what countermeasures was Najib taking to oppose the Mujahideen, Masood said Najib wanted to create division among the Mujahideen. He has approached some resistance parties and promised to transfer power to them. It was a-trick to create problems among different Mujahideen groups, the commander said.
     About the situation in Mazar, he said the liberation of Mazar was initiated by Jami'at Militias forces had developed differences with other armed forces of the regime. Najib wanted to end the crises by giving concession to militia forces. Exploiting the situation, Jami'at Mujahideen captured regime bases one after the other. An interim committee has been formed to provide security and other services to the people of Mazar.
     Masood said the orderly transfer of power in Mazar has had greater effect on the regime than its liberation. The residents of Kabul get information about the situation in Mazar from their relatives in Mazar by telephone. Peace
 in Mazar has prepared the people of Kabul to welcome the entry of the victorious Mujahideen to the capital.
     The UN has accelerated its peace plan to form a neutral administration in Kabul and the Mujahideen are also trying to capture Kabul. .When Masood was asked which of these efforts would reach the target first, he replied:    "Kabul
 will welcome the Mujahideen, God willing."
     Foreign journalist visiting the northern city of Mazar reported the city to be calm. A joint administration of the Militias and Mujahideen ruled the city.            ,   '
     The UN officers who escaped to Kabul when Mazar fell to Mujahideen have returned to the city. A UN officer said he was getting full cooperation from the new rulers of Mazar and was sending 100 trucks of food td Kabul each day. The UN official described the situation better than before the takeover.
     School children carrying green flags were seen waiting along the highway to welcome Commander Alam Khan of Jami'at coming from Hayratan to Mazar: ,
     Abdul Karim Bahar, the governor of Kabul and a member of Farcham faction, has admitted that developments in the north is seen as a positive thing by many officers of the regime army.
     About the effect erf the fall of Mazar on the ordinary people, Bahar said: "At the start, the people were scared but later their fear disappeared because the city remained calm." ..
                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                      i i
     Afghan Mujahideen sources have alleged that the United Nations j Special Envoy Benon Sevan was putting diplomatic pressure on certain | Arab countries to stop reaching of private funds to the Mujahideen parties.
     The Al-Bunyan News Service reported that Sevan wanted an end to the Arab funding for Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), Ittehad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) and Jami'at Islami before the end of April.
     It claimed that the UN envoy, during his recent trip to the Middle East, asked these countries to put an end to private donations to the three parties in order to facilitate the formation of a United Nations-sponsored interim government to replace the Kabul regime.
     The three Mujahideen parties have offices in almost all Gulf states that collect private donations.
 Jami'at supports UN peace plan conditionally
    Jami'at Islami leader Prof. Rabbani has set the following conditions for his support to the UN peace plan:
    •    Members of the pre-interim administration council should be selected by the Mujahideen.
    «, The pre-interim administration should not enjoy political and diplomatic powers.
    •    The pre-interim administration should complete its task within two months.
    •    The regime 1 secret police (KHAD), special guard and police of the regime should be dissolved and the army should purged from its communist commanders.
    •    The Mujahideen forces should be in control of strategic locations of Kabul.
    Jami'at had not provided the list of its candidates for membership of the council to the UN directly or indirectly.
 Mir Alam
                                                From page (5)
 the Supervisory Council of Jami'at headed by Ahmad Shah. Masood in 1989. He is one of the key Mujahideen commanders who implement the strategy of the council in Kunduz.
    Mir Alam was bom 39 years ago in Childokhtaran lane of the city of Kunduz. His father, Haji Ghulam Qadir, was a relatively wealthy man in volved in farming and trade. He was also a local dignitary. Mir Alam learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. At the age of seven, he went to Shir Khan High School. He left school when he was a studentof the 11th class and began to work as an auto mechanic. His native language is Persian. He is married and has one child.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page

Battlefields
 Bagram Air Base captured
    The biggest air base of the Kabul regime in Bagram, 60 kilometers north of Kabul, fell to the Mujahideen of Jami'at on April 15. The Mujahideen are in control of a large number of transport planes, helicopters and sophisticated jet fighters.
                                                           ; \
 Herat liberated
    The historic city of Herat was liberated by the Mujahideen on April 18, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    The Mujahideen control all military installations, airport and the city.
    All the regime troops and officers were forgiven and the prisoners were set free.
    A 30-member council has been famed to run the city. The members of the council sue chosen from among the elders; Ulama and Mujahideen.
    The people of the city poured into the streets to welcome the victories of Mujahideen. Ismail Khan addressed the people of Herat on the local television. He also addressed a huge gathering of the people in the historic Jamai Mosque. The Mujahideen control Herat-lslam Qala and Herat-Torghundi roads.
    The . Mujahideen also liberated Adraskan District on April 18.
    The Mujahideen of Jami’at liberated Otoe District on April 16, Commander Azizullah Afzali reported. They seized four tanks, 1500 heavy and light weapons and some ammunitions.
 were seized by the Mujahideen.
 Badakhshan freed
    Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan Province, was liberated by the Mujahideen of Jami'at on April 19 after bloody clashes with the regime troops.
    The Mujahideen woe led by Abdul Basir Khalid, a major Jami'at commander in Badakhshan. Forces belonging to SAZA, a communist organization, resisted the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen lost 50 men while 120 were wounded. The regime troops suffered heavy casualties too.
    The Mujahideen seized 60 armored cars, tanks and vehicles, four BM-21 rocket launchers and thousands of light and heavy guns.
    Commander Jora, a prominent commander of Jami'at, was among the martyrs. All the regime troops and militiamen were disarmed.
 Kandahar liberated
    Kandahar, the second largest city in Afghanistan fell to the Mujahideen on April 20. Commanders from different parties control military institutions and strategic points of Kandahar.
    A 21-member council has assumed the responsibility of running the city. Governor and military commander of the regime are members of the council.
    Commander Naqibullah of Jami'at is in control of headquarters of Division No. 15. The fall of Kandahar was the result of negotiations held between the commanders of the regime and the Mujahideen.
Badghis liberated Kunduz liberated
     Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of Badghis, was liberated on April 20. The regime forces surrendered to Mawlawi Ibrahim and Commander Nazari, both belonging to Jami'at. A large number of heavy and light weapons, including trucks and armored cars.
    In a joint operation, the Mujahideen of Jami'at, Harakat and Ittihad liberated the city of Kunduz on April 18. All regime posts around the city and the airport are being controlled by the Mujahideen.
    Commander Arif Khan acted as the
chief commander of die operation.
Soroobi captured
    All regime military units in Soroobi, 50 kilometers east of the city of Kabul, surrendered to the Mujahideen on April 18. A council representing five parties, including Jami'at, has taken the charge of the district Soroobi is located on Kabul-Jalalabad road. The Mujahideen control the two power station in Soroobi.
Paghman liberated
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at liberated Paghman District, a resort town 25 kilometers west of Kabul, on April 22, Commander Mullah Ezat reported. It seems that the surrender of the regime forces has been peaceful.
Logar liberated
    Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar Province, fell to the Mujahideen on April 21, Commander Dr. Fazlullah reported. Other districts of the province have also been liberated.
Gerdez lieberated
    Gardez, the provincial capital of Piaktia province, fell to the Mujahideen on April 22, Commander Haqqani reported. The Mujahideen launched an attack on the city after negotiation for a peaceful surrender of the garrison failed.
Jalalabad freed
    The Mujahideen brought Jalalabad under their control after the military commander and governor of the city agreed to lay down aims on April 23. Jalalabad was the scene of heavy battles between the Mujahideen and the communist forces immediately after the Soviet troops withdrawal.
    The Mujahideen have already formed an administration to rule the city. Commander Abdul Qadir from Hezb Islami (Khalis) was chosen the governor of Ningaihar Province.
Maimana liberated
    The Mujahideen of Jami’at took control of Maimana, provincial capita of Faiyab, on April 22 after the regime forces in the city agreed to lay down their arms, Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf reported. A council comprising from Ulama, commanders and elders have been famed to run the city. The Mujahideen celebrated their victory on April 23 by convening a meeting in which thousands of people took pan.
 ----------------------------------------------- AFGHANews  Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
 Mujahideen chase Comrade Najib into the United Nations sanctury
     The Mujahideen’s recent victories, program had improved his image out- the regime, KHAD, which was trained, initiated by the Supervisory Council of side Afghanistan. He was claiming to financed and directed by KGB. As the Jami'at, deprived Najib of a graceful be the factor of stability in the region head of KHAD, Najib committed nu-exit from power.                   who could control Islamic Revolution merous crimes against the Afghan re-
     On March 18, Najib had an- from spreading to Central Asia.       sistance. His agents were involved in
 nounced that he was ready to hand over power to a transitional neutral government formed through the UN peace process.
     This announcement came after the regime had lost Mazar, the most important city after Kabul, to its opponents.
     On April 10, the UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali announced formation of a pre-transition neutral council to transfer power from the Kabul regime to a transitional government formed through the UN peace process.
     Military operations, initiated by Ahmad Shah Masood, resulted in the '                                 Faculty of Health of Kabul University,
 fall of Salang, Jabulseraj, Charikar and Najib had convinced the outside Najib was introduced to Anahita, a Bagram Air Base within two days. world, including neighboring countries, leader of Parcham faction of the PDPA.
     Realizing the imminent fall of his that the Mujahideen were not able to Najib soon emerged as the students’ government, Najib decided to leave the defeat him militarily. As a result, these leader of his party in the Kabul country on April 16, peihaps, for the countries had started to put pressure on University. He was jailed once for a purpose of India to join his wife and the Mujahideen to enter a deal with the short while because he had attacked the three children who were sent earlier, ruling Watan Party.            US Vice President Spiro Agnew with
 He was prevented to board the waiting Najib entered Afghanistan with an egg when he was visiting Kabul.
 UN plane by the rebel soldiers in con- Red Army in December of 1979. He During the time of Daud, Najib’s trol of the airport                lived in exile when he was sacked from father was appointed as the representa-
     Having lost every hope, he sought his ambassadorial post in Teheran by tive of Afghan traders in Peshawar, asylum in one of the UN offices in the first communist president Noor This enabled Najib to come to Kabul. The UN special envoy on Mohammad Taraki. His brother, Peshawar and establish good relations Afghanistan who was in Kabul at the Seddiqullah, who defected to the with the leftist and nationalist parties in time of the incident tried his best to get Mujahideen some years ago, accuses Pakistan. He is 45 years old and has Najib out' of Kabul but failed. The him of steeling the Afghan Embassy's three daughters who live in India with Foreign Minister of the regime Abdul funds before arriving in Prague, their mother.
 Wakil told reporters that the people of Czechoslovakia, to join Babrak The down fall of Najib has opened Afghanistan should decide about the Karmal. Najib spent some time in the way for establishment of an Islamic fate of Najib whom he described as 'the England and France as the guest of the government in Afghanistan and has hated dictator1.                   communist parties in these countries closed a bloody picture of Afghan his-
     Najib became the president of the before being summoned to Moscow to tory which began on April 27, 1978. It Kabul regime in 1987 with the bless- be taken to Afghanistan.        is hoped that Afghan Mujahideen seize
- ings of the Soviets. During his rule, the Immediately after his return, he this opportunity to foim a government Soviet troops left Afghanistan, was put on top of the secret police of acceptable to the majority of Afghans. Moscow’s massive economic, military and political support continued reach him until the disintegration of the Soviet empire itself.
     Najib survived for three long years after the Soviet troops withdrawal, partly due to divisions among the Mujahideen and mainly because of massive Soviet support to his regime.
     When the Soviet aid dried, Najib lost control of militiamen and army because he was no longer able to provide them with the benefits that they demand in return for fighting against the Mujahideen.
     Najib had adopted a sophisticated military and political policy against die Mujahideen. IBs national reconciliation
 bomb explosions in Pakistan.
     When Soviets wanted to change their Afghan policy, they needed a new face whom they trusted. Najib was the choice. His loyalty to Soviet Union, ruthlessness in dealing with opponents, his sophistication, power of communication and, finally, ethnic background made him an ideal candidate to repice Babrak Karmal.
     Najib was bom in a Pushtoon family of Ahmad Zai tribe. His father came from Sayyed Karam District in Paktia Province. When he was a student of the
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page @
wmwmmm
     Editorial
     v*_
      A merciful victory
        After 14 years of armed struggle, the Mujahideen succeeded to form an Islamic government in Afghanistan. This is a significant victory for the Mujahideen, the Afghan people and all those who supported Jehad
        A group of communists took power in Kabul on April 27, 1978, through a bloody coup. The people of Afghanistan rejected their rule aiid began Jehad against them. Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in 1979 to safe the communist system. All sections of the Afghan society put up a heroic struggle against the Soviet invaders. More than one million Afghans lost their lifes and five million-more became refugees, but they refused to accept foreign domination. Afghans earned worldwide admiration for their heroic struggle.
        Realizing their helplessness, Soviets decided to leave Afghanistan but continued to give money and weapons to their agents to deprive the Mujahideen from an outright victory.
        After the Soviet troops withdrawal. Jehad faced a new situation. The Mujahideen were not united; military operations were conducted under the influence of outsiders and the outside world was loosing interest in the cause because the Soviets were not directly involved.
        The desperate situation forced some commanders to talk to each other to find a solution to this problem. These talks led to development of a strategy which emphasized on cooperation among field commanders and gradually approach to military operations. Victory in Khost and in the North in 1991 proved the point that the Mujahideen were able to win battles.
        After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime was deprived of its economic and military source of aid. This led to rebellion of some army officers and the loss of Mazar-i-Sharif.
        Realizing the growing problems, Najib agreed to step down in favor of a neutral government formed under the UN auspices.
        Ahmad Shah Masood, the Head of the Supervisory Council of Jami'at, attacked the regime forces in Salang and nroth of Kabul and won a major victory.
        This development that cough almost all Mujahideen parties by surprise froced Najib into hiding. Masood could have gone ahead to take power in Kabul but decided to let the political leaders to decide about the form of the future government All parties took active part in political discussions to evolve an acceptable formula, except Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar which was following its own program of conquering Kabul through military operations.
        On April 25, the Mujahideen under the command of Masood took control of Kabul. Mujahideen were welcomed by the people of the city.
        On April 28 the Mujahideen council entered the city. The officials of the regime handed over power to the council formally. The Mujahideen established their own government without giving any share to the communist party.
        Prof. Mujaddidi, the head of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, announced a general amnesty to all the members of the former regime. The Mujahideen wanted to destroy the communist system and were not eager to kill individuals who admit their mistakes.
        By the announcement of the Mujahideen government in Kabul, Jehad entered a new phase, the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
        In order to achieve their aim, Afghans need unity of action more than any other time in their history. Unity is necessary to expand the rule of Islamic state all over Afghanistan as well as to provide services to the people all over the country. Jami'at has shown its willingness to cooperate with other Mujahideen parties and is ready to do so in the future.
        In order to rebuild Afghanistan, we need the support of all peace-loving countries, especially the Muslim world. Russia and other members of CIS have to take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan because they destroyed the beautiful country of Afghans.
 Jami'at leader talks to Afghans through TV
    Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, congratulated the people of Afghanistan on the occasion of the victory of the Mujahideen on the communist regime.
    In a message read out on radio and TV of Afghanistan oh April 26, said the victory of the Mujahideen is great historic event.
    He said the extremist communists wanted to turn the street of Kabul into a blood battle but their attempt was foild by the Mujahideen.
    They conspired against the Mujahideen when a 50 member Interim Council was preparing to leave for Kabul to take the charge of the government.
    Jami'at leader said in his message that the Afghan nation was united and the Mujahideen allowed no one to divide them on ethnic and linguistic lines.
    Prof. Rabbani thanked all Islamic and non-Islamic countries which support the Mujahideen in the just struggle. He appreciated the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Islamic Republic of Iran and kingdom of Saudi Arabia for their voluable support to the Afghan people.
    He expressed hope that the friendly countries, OIC and UN will help Afghans to rebuild their country.
    Prof. Rabbani said the Mujahideen government will forgive all those who were misguided and protect life, property and honor of all Afghans.
    He asked all the armed froces of the country to be allert and foil the attempts of terrorists to disturb law and order in the country.

    The Chief Commander of Jami'at in Baghlan Abdul Hay Haqjo has laid the foundation stone of a new town in Nahrin.
    The new town will have 2500 residential houses, office buildings, schools, a park, and a market. The old town could not cope with the growing level of trade and increased population.
    The new town is designed by engineers and approved by the council of the district composed of Mujahideen commanders, Ulamas and elders.
      During the years of occupation, Nahrin served as the main trading center for the local people and people living in the neighboring districts.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
     Commanders support Masood's program
         The recent Mujahideen victories in cent victories were part of Jehad activi-the north of Afghanistan opened the ties to serve the interest of Islam. No way for disintegration of the Kabul re- linguistic, regional, tribal and sectarian gime, While these victories paved the motive were involved in these way for achieving all objectives of activities.
     Jehad, unfortunately, they also created Here are the major points of some doubts in the mind of some Commander Masood’s answers to ques-Mujahideen and outside circles about dons asked by the commanders: the motives of Commander Masood • The recent victories are the result who led these operations.          of collective efforts of all Mujahideen.
         The National Council of • There is no linguistic, regional, Commanders appointed a delegation to tribal and sectarian elements involved contact Commander Masood through in the recent victories of the radio and raise some questions with Mujahideen. Such factors are against him that bothered them. The delegation the principles of Islam and the interest included:                          of Afghanistan.
         • General Rahim Wardak of NIFA       • I do not recognize the "Islamic
         • Commander Anwar of Jami'at and National Movement of the North"
         • Eng. M. Afzal Ahmad Zai of (announced by Rashid Dostum) and I
     Ittihad-i- Islami (Prof. Sayyaf)   am opposed to it
           Commander Musa Khan of            • I rejected formation of a coalition
     ] ttihad-i-Islami                  government with Watan Party and con-
           Sayyed   Husain Anwari from sider it against         the interest of
     Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini)         Afghanistan.
           Malik Solaiman of Hizb-i- • I am in favor of formation of Wahdat                             Islamic government and preservation of
           Akhtar Mohammad Toolwak of the territorial integrity of the country. Ittihad-i-Islami                        • While I can    enter Kabul and an-
         On April 18 at 4:00 pm, the dele- nounce formation of Islamic govem-gation contacted Masood via radio and ment there, in order to avoid misunder-asked him the following questions: standings, 1 am waiting so that the
         Have you formed a coalition with Mujahideen leaders to form a govem-Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Mansoor ment and enter the capital victoriously, of Kahay?                              • If a single party, expoiting the
         Do you want to form a coalition recent victories of the Mujahideen, government with Khalqi and Parchami wants to monopolize the power and officers in the future?           prevent formation of a government in-
         Do you permit other Mujahideen volving all Mujahideen parties, I will parties in the future government in not remain indifferent and use all forces Afghanistan?                      available to foil such an attempt
         After listening to the questions • I request all the Mujahideen lead-posed by the delegation, Masood ers to form an Islamic government and briefed them about his late victories in announce it from inside Afghanistan, detail. Their questions were answered • If the leaders fail to reach an and they started to believe that the re- agreement on formation of a govern-
                                         ment, I have to invite commanders, elders and Ulamas to form an Islamic government in consultation with each other.
                                             • I declare that as a soldier of Islam I do not ask for any governmental post Dear countrymen!
                                             While we (the members of the National Council of Commanders) congratulates you on the fresh victories of the Mujahideen, we consider these moves in line with objectives of Jehad and in the interest of our people and support them wholeheartedly.
                                             We advise you to abstain from harmful propaganda based on linguistic, sectarian and tribal factors which are harmful to the unity of the country.
    A setijof,                     hia
said that Washington's ability to provide r^on$trti^oii;:Wd wbujd feptUT.'

  Rabbani advises refugees
     Jami'at leader has advised the refugees to be patient and not to rash to Afghanistan Talking to a gathering of Afghans on April 26, Prof. Rabbani said refugees should be repatriated in an organized way so that they are not faced with problems.
     About the role of officials of the previous governments in the Islamic government, he said that all of them were the Mujahideen's brothers and they should help in reconstruction of theircountry.
     He said those people who fought againa the Mujahideen would be forgiven. An Islamic government is not a vehicle for taking revenge, he added.
 oft; mission# effect,
 pie from Mat dan Sharandbnug them
 jto
 ® the incident was-^trolled by a
 army officers .There was no information about the killer and his motive.
 Aft* *
mstmsm mmm w#
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Ahmad Shah Masood
     Ahmad Shah Masood is one the most famous commanders of the Mujahideen whose recent victories, north of the capital, resulted in down fall of Najib and paved the way for the formation of a Mujahideen government in Afghanistan.
     Masood has gained his worldwide reputation from effective fighting against the Soviet troops. He is the most powerful commander of the Afghan resistance.
     Masood entered Panjshir valley, about 75 kilometers north of Kabul, from exile in Pakistan in the Spring of 1979 to start Jehad against the communist regime in KabuL He was accompanied by less then twenty Mujahideen and brought with him a few bolt-action guns which were bought by Jami’at from arms market in the tribal belt of Pakistan.
     Masood liberated Panjshir and controlled it for two months before retreating to the upper part of the valley due to shortage of ammunition and being injured in fighting.
     Learning a good lesson from this defeat, Masood began to put the foundation of a modem guerilla organization. He started to recruit volunteers for his guerrilla force and gave them military and political training. He adopted a hit-and-run tactic in place of confronting an enemy with massive fire power. He had liberated half of the Pdnjshir valley before the Red Army launched its first offensive against the valley in April of 1980.
     Masood survived this massive attack and even his men captured some weapons. This psychological victory . consolidated his organization and increased the number of volunteers joining his forces.
     From 1980 to 1988, the Red Army launched nine massive offensive against Masood's forces in Panjshir. In each successive attack, Soviets used more troops and fresh tactics. Masood was able not only to defend the valley but expanded his influence outside his home base. Soviets have admitted that Masood was responsible for most of the casualties inflicted on the Red Army.
     His leadership qualities combined with the geographical structure of Panjshir and wholehearted support of people of the valley helped Masood to create the model of an effective military and civilian administration. Creation of this model was necessary before he could expand his influence
 outside the valley.
     The level of cooperation of the people of Panjshir with Masood was become known when Masood ordered evacuation of the valley from civilian
  Cmdr. Mimad Shah Masood
 population before the Seventh Offensive in 1984. The people of Panjshir left the valley without asking a question leaving behind all then-belongings.
     Masood treats his Mujahideen with respect and affection. He has been able to turn ordinary farmers into disciplined commanders who not only know about tactics of war but also have learned the art of dealing with people.
     Masood's power of prediction enabled him to develop his organization with pace of developments. Penetration of the enemy sensitive organizations, both Soviet and the regime, helped him to prepare for the possible enemy moves. Formation of small and self-sufficient bases, organizing the Mujahideen into local , mobile and central groups and creation of the Islamic army were proved to be timely
     Masood felt the need for a civil administration in the areas he controlled to provide health, education, transportation and reconstruction services to the people and insure their participation in Jehad.
     He is famous for his forgiveness. He released a young man who shot at him but missed him. He also spared the life of an assassin who wanted to kill him in Taliqan at the beginning of 1991.
     Despite his military engagements, Masood has tried to increase his knowledge about Islam. He reads Holy Quran regularly and study book when
 he finds time. Like most Afghans, he does not miss listening to BBC and VOA.
     Masood conducts a simple way of life. The house in which his family lives is not distinguishable from other houses in the village. He is married and has two children. His marriage was kept secret from public for several years because it would have exposed himself and his family to enemy attacks.
     Masood deals with the financial aspects of Jehad openly. He believes that secrecy about income and expense gives room to hannful speculations.
     His is known for fulfilling his promise even if that costs him a lot of troubles. Manoki Mangal, the political deputy of the defense ministry of the regime was his prisoner in Panjshir. Manoki's family asked Masood to release him. Masood did not release him but promised not to kill him. Manoki managed to escaped from jail with the help of Hezb Islami and became chief of one of the directorates of KHAD. Manoki caused a lot trouble for Masood but he never regretted sparing his life.
     The Soviet and Kabul regime tried to assassinate him many tunes. None of these attempts were successful. Masood had a mobile life for several years. He rarely slept in one place two successive nights. As he expanded his territory life become easier for him.
     As Masood became more famous, his rivals spread more rumors about him. One of the controversial issues used against him was the ceasefire that he made with the Soviets in Panjshir in 1983. He struck a deal with the Soviets to expand his work outside the valley. His rivals accused him of sell out of the cause. He has never apologized for his deal and still thinks that it was a timely decision which benefited the Mujahideen.
     His rivals also accuse him of trying to become the leader of Tajiks. He has rejected this accusation and there is no solid evidence to justify the accusation leveled against him.
     His rivals also allege that Masood was being prompted by the intemadon al media The media has reported the positive things done by Masood. These publicities has served the interest of Jehad.
     Masood has. always tried to deal with the outside world through Jami'aL All of his relations with the outside world is cleared first with Prof.
                                            AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
 Rabbani. While he wanted to have good relations with the countries supporting Jehad, Masood was reluctant to barter his freedom of action with material benefits. For example, Masood wanted to consolidate his bases in the mountainous regions at the start of Jehad, while donors of arms and ammunition prepared attacks on targets close to the cities. As a result, he did not receive arms and ammunition at a scale that he deserved. He compensated shortages of arms and ammunitions by training of his troops and careful choice of targets.
     Masood's level of loyalty to Jami'at is a subject of discussion. Some people wondered how such a famous commander will remain sub-ordinate to Prof. Rabbani. But developments proved that not only he is loyal to Jami'at but also to its leader.
     Relations between Masood and Arab supporters of Jehad have had several stages. At the start, he diiinot have support of Arabs. Propaganda by rival groups made Arabs suspicious about Masood. The publicity he got from the international press added to their suspicion. As the time passed, some Arabs started to reconsider their position. Late Abdullah Ezam played a key role in improving Arabs' relation with Masood. For some Arab supporters of Jehad who have a simplistic view about Jehad, the multi-dimentional work of Masood is not easy to understand. Such people can be easily affected by false propaganda.
     Masood is the most popular resistance figure in Kabul. He not only did not indulge in firing rockets into Kabul, he also refrained from closing the Salang road not to hurt the people of Kabul. This policy was criticized by Afghans and foreign circles involved in Jehad and even they accused him of collaboration with the Kabul regime.
     The most important political decision of Masood was formation of the Supervisory Council. This organization united Jami'at forces in 10 provinces of northeast Afghanistan and enabled Jami'at to play a leading role in Jehad
     Masood is a member of the Islamic Movement and believes in establishment an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He joined the movement when he was a student in Polytechnic Institute of Kabul University. He worked closely with Habibur Rahamd, one of the students’ leaders of the movement, to organize a military coup against President Daud. Habibur Rahman gave Masood the job of recruiting army officers. After his arrest, Habibur Rahman advised Masood to cooperate with Hikmatyar
     Masood took part in Panjshir uprising of 1975 as the leader of the group. From 1975 to 1979 he lived in exile in Pakistan. When differences between Prof. Rabbani and Eng. Hikmatyar surfaced, he supported Prof. Rabbani
     Masood was bom 36 years ago in Jangalak of Bazarak, Panjshir District. His father Brigadier Dost Mohammad was an army officer. Masood finished primary school in Panjshir, Herat and graduated from Isti^lal high school in Kabul. He became a student of Polytechnic and went underground to avoid arrest when he was in the third class.
     The most important achievement of Masood is provision of security to the people under his control In recognition to this achievement, he has been appointed the Defense Minister of the Islamic Interim Government in Kabul. He is also the head of the security com-N mittee to provide security for the three million residents of Kabul. This is an extremely difficult task but there is no other Afghan with experience and power of Masood to shoulder this huge responsibility.
 * i vv
  sY/A \>
Y\t
- X > 'i
/ i \\ t
                      AFGHANews congratulates Mujahideen and supporters of Jehadon the historic victory of the Afghan Muajhdien and formation of an Islamic government in Kabul.
Leaders agree on interim formula
    The .Mujahideen leaders announced formation of a commission for transfer of power from the Kabul regime to a Mujahideen government as well as the formation of a leadership council and an interim government in a press conference in Peshawar on Friday April 24.
    According to the formula, a fifty-member commission, consisting of 30 Mujahideen commanders, ten Ulama (religious scholars) and ten members of the Mujahideen parties, will be formed. The commission will be headed by Prof. Sebghatullah Mujaddidi, who will be the head of the State of Afghanistan for two months. Hie council members will travel to Kabul and assume all the administrative, political and military powers from the Kabul regime. After two, months, the council will transfer the power to the Interim government and itself will transform into an interim council.
    The Interim government will consist of a leadership council and a cabinet. It will function for four months. Hie leadership council will consist of the leaders of Mujahideen parties. Prof. Rabbani will be the president of the leadership council and the head of the state. The Mujahideen leaders, who are members of the leadership council, will not participate in the cabinet The prince minister of the cabinet will be someone from Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. He will have three deputies: one from NIFA who will also be minster of foreign affairs; one from Hezb Islami Khalis who will also be minister of education; and one from Ittihad-i-lslami who will also be minister of Interior.
    Prof. Sayyaf introduced Eng, Ahmad Shah as the minister of interior and deputy prime minister from his party. The defence minister will be from JIA. Prof. Rabbani introduced Commander Ahmad Shah Masood as defense minister. The chief justice will be someone from Harakat-i-Inqilab Islami of Mawlawi Mohammadi. The rest of the cabinet members will be decided later.
    Four months after the Interim government assumes power, an Islamic council will be formed. That council will decide about the future Interim Government which will last for one and half years. During this time, preparations will be made for formation of an elected council which will form the government
                                            AFGHANews Vol 8, No 8, April 15,1992, page ©
The historic victory!
   From page (1)
 flee the countiy. General Yaqoubi, the Minister of KHAD, regime's secret police, committed suicide.
     Hatif, one of the four deputies of Najib, became the Interim President and the security of Kabul was given to four army generals: Nabi Azimi, Momen, Baba Jan and Asif Delawar.
     Wakil flew to Charikar to discuss the situation with Masood. It seemed that officials of the regime were ready to hand over power to the Mujahideen in return for their personal safety.
     Masood sent messages to the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar and encouraged them to reach an agreement on a transitional government as soon as possible. He also sent messages to the Prime Minister and President of Pakistan and assured them of his cooperation with a Mujahideen government
     On February 23, six major Mujahideen parties agreed on a formula for formation of a commission for transfer of power and a transitional government
     Victories of the supervisory council north of Kabul provoked a negative reaction from Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar. While Hezb claimed to be leading the war against the regime, in fact it created problem for the Mujahideen attacking Charikar and Bagram Air Base.
     Hezb suffered a psychological setback when it became known that its claims of victories were highly exaggerated. Nowhere in Afghanistan, Hezb could score an outright victory. For a leader like Hikmatyar who claimed to lead the largest and the most effective party of all the Mujahideen, this development was not easy to digest.
     inflammatory statements issued by Hezb alleged that an international conspiracy was involved to keep Hezb out of power. It alleged Iran and Masood were conspiring to keep communists in power or dismember the country on ethnic and linguistic lines.
     While other leaders were discussing formation of a transitional government, Hikmatyar began to mobilize a arge force from among the refugees in the camps and students of schools. It was becoming clear that he was bent on some sort of military adventure.
     Masood contacted Hikmatyar by radio and tried to convince him that attack on the city was not wise. Masood told Hikmatyar that since the Kabul regime was ready to step down, there was no need to attack the city. He ad-
 vised him to work with other leaders on the formation of an interim administration. Hikmatyar argued that he wanted to enter the city as a liberator not through political negotiations.
     When a battalion of police, stationed in Logar, defected to Hezb through its Khalqi connections on April 22, it opened a corridor for military action of the party on Kabul, bn the meantime, General Rafai, the Vice President of the regime and a leader of Khalq faction of the regime, flew to Logar to meet Hikmatyar. Developments showed that Rafai's visit was aimed at coordination of efforts between Hezb and Khalqi officers of the regime.
     Hikmatyar gave the Afghan army in Kabul an ultimatum that if it did not surrender by April 26, Hezb would attack the capital.
     In the morning of April 25, a group of Hezb Mujahideen who had infiltrated into Kabul took control of the Inerior Ministry after being armed by Khalqi officers. Aslam Watanjar and Manoki Mangal were the main plotters. The plan was to take power through coup and let the Hezb Mujahideen enter into the city and declare their government.
     The leaders in Peshawar were informed about the situation. They authorized Commander Masood to send his Mujahideen to Kabul and seize control of the city. The order was executed promptly and by afternoon the same day, all strategic locations of the city came under control of the Mujahideen loyal to interim Islamic government.
     On April 26 at 7:00 am, an armored column of the regime's police which had defected to Hezb attacked Balahisar Fort, south of the city. The attack was beaten back by troops stationed in the fort Hezb men were also driven out of other positions captured in the city, except the interior ministry.
     On April 27, Hezb forces took position on a hill south of the city and attacked housing complex of Macro Rayon and the airport with mortars, rockets and artillery. By the morning of April 28, they were dislodged from their positions.
     These clashes which caused loss of life and property spoiled the joy of Afghans over their long-waited victory. With the mediation of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia a ceasefire agreement was signed on April 26. Hezb has conditioned it to purge of the army from former communist officers. Masood has said that with the presence of Hikmatyars' armed men in the city ceasefire cannot be observed.
  Fall of Laghman
  Fall of Qalat.r----April 21
  i|||if Hull
  PH of Jafeta&4d.^„.Apra 23^>| vi tffjrmatioii of cbuhaLApril,^ §«
)transfer' of Powtr April 28 f£? \

  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan