| [M THE HtlB Of AUlIOKTl ALLAH \
AFGH ANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I‘AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOLL, 111NO. 15&16, 15/8.87
                                 ISLAMIC GOVERNMENT: CLARIFYING SOME CONFUSIONS
One of the question usually posed to Afghan MuJahideen--or . to other committed Muslim activaits for that matter--is:
"What kind of an Islamic government do you advocate?". It is not possible to present an overview of the Islamic gover--nment in a short essay such this. What is possible to do is. to suggest some points in order to clarify some confusions on the issue.                   *
                       r ■
1.  Islam does not pesent a blue print of an Islamic government. It gives the values and principles on the basis of,
which an Islamic government should be built. Muslims believe Islam to be a religion for all of humanity and for all. time to come. The way Muslims can justify this assertion is the fact that Islam presents elements of continuity and elements of change. The values that a society should strive ^ for and the principles on the basis of which it should construct its social, political and economic structures are the elements of continuity. How a society should strive to achieve those values and how the structures should be built will depend on the conditions of time and society.
Thus, there is not one and only one form of the Islamic government. Neither can any government using the label could be considered "Islamic". There can be many forms of Islamic government. But all of them must strive for the same values and be constructed on the basis of same principes.
2.  Islamic government is not a return to the 7th century.
It is true that the Madina' society at the time of Propht Mohammad and the Righteous caliphs provide the model for
an Islamic government. But the Madina society’s significance lies in the fact that i t demonstrated that Islamic ideals --presented in the form of values and principles--are not beyond the reach of humankind. The Madina society was a society of Justice, virtue,' morality, brotherhood, and cooperation of all the members for a common goal. It was a soci-ey in which the leaders were accessible to all the members and their living conditions were no better-- if notworse--than others. It was a society in which the leader.consulted the people for carrying on the affairs of the state even though the leader was the Prophet of God. It was a society in which the decisions made by the majority were implemented although they were against the views of the leader. It was a society in which every member could freely express his views and even question the leader for his actions. It was a society in which the government felt itself responsible to provide jobs for those who lacked and welfare to the needy --even if he/she did not adhere to the state idiology. It was
AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111. NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 2
a society in which the rights of minorities were well-protec-ted--uniess they engaged in acts of treason. It was a society in which the distinction between elite and masses had disappeared to the extent that a 17 year old son of a former slave could become the commander of an army in which the former nobles and the prominent members of the present society would serve as ordinary soldiers •••• And the list could go on and on and on.
rights of minorities were wel1-protected--unless they engaged in acts of treason. It was a society in which the distinction between elite and masses had disappeared to the extent that a 17 year old son of a former.slave ould become the commander of an army in which the former nobles and the prominent members of the present society would serve as ordinary soldiers. ...And the list could go on and on and on.
3. The goal of an islamic government is to establish
a moral and just, society. This is not an end in itself.
The purpose of having a moral and just society is to enable all the members to develop their God-yiven human potentialities and to move towards perfection. In the same way that the potentials of a seed need the right conditions to actualize into a tree and bear fruits; human potentials can be actualized in a society in which moral values prevail, there is no oppression and injustice, poverty and chronic diseases are eliminated, and everyone has the opportunity to work for his/her- development. Only strong and sincere belief in God and folowiijg his genuine guidance could lead into the establishment of such a society--not the abolishment of private property nor giving a free hand to the "invisible hand” of the market.
4.  In an Islamic society sovereignty belongs to God first, and then to the people as a whole in the form of trusteeship. This means that a ruler or a small group of elite cannot claim to be "sovereign," It also means that people can exercise their sovereignty only within the framwork
of Shariat (Islamic law). That is. they cdnnot make any laws that run counter to the commands of God and His Messenger.
5.  implementation of Shariat, including its penal code, is an important duty of the Islamic government. But it should be noted that it is only one of its duties--and that only after the ground work for inculcation of the Islamic values and implementation of the Islamic principles is done. Islamic penal code does not provide for "reeducation" of a criminal because education must be provided to all the members of the society beforehand. Moreover.
the causes of crimes must be eliminated before the accused person could be punished. It should also be noted that the requirements for evidence in the Islamic penal code are so strict that only a small percentage of the accused ones could possibily be convicted. The punishment of the criminal will aim at deterring others From committinu similar crimes.
6.  According to the Holy Quran, a characteristic of the Muslims is that they conduct their affirs on the basis of mutual consultation (42:38). This is a principle that could be applied at different levels--e.g., family, small
AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 3
 groups and organizations, local community, national-government, and international community. At the national level, it couldbe applied to the question of appointment/ election of the head of the state. Who should be elected, how and for how long are not specified by the Quran and the Sunna (traditions of the Prophet). Thus, they can be decided by the members of a society according to the conditions of their time and society.
 Two main criteria are Taqwa (piety, God-consciousness) and knowledge. In regard to who can take part in the elections, the wording of the above-mentioned verse is general and could apply to both men and women. Moreover, the practice of women taking the oath of allegiance at the time of the Prophet clearly indicates that they are eligible for polotical activities.
 7. The Islamic government derivers its legitimacy from the verse of the Quran that "Obey God, and obey the Messenger, and those charged with authority among you” (4:59) This obedience is not unconditional, however.
 The wording of the verse mentioned and also its continuation show that the obedience of the authority is conditional to the authority's obedience of the teachings of God and His Messenger. Moreover, there are Sayings of the Prophet according to which no obedience is due to unreasonable orders or orders that contradict the commands of God.
 There is also a verse of the Holy Quran which tells the Muslims women that while they are taking the oath of allegiance to the Prophet they say ”... and we vOT 11 not disobey you in just matters" (60:12). Hopefully the implication of the verse is clear because there is not enough space to elaborate the point.
                             JAMI AT EXPRESSES REGERET OVER THE Makkah tragedy
Jamiat islami Afghanistn sent identical telegrams to Hujatul Islam Ali Khamenaie, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia in regard to the recent tradedy in Makkah. Following is the text of the telegrams:
"We deeply regeret the tragic event in Makkah on july 31 and express to you and the people of your country our condolences and sympathies. May Allah bless the souls of those who lost their lives in that unfortunate incident and grant patience and forebearance to their famiilies and relatives.
We hope our brothers in the Islamic Republic of Iran and Saudi Arabia resolve the problems arising from this tragedy in a spirit of brotherhood and according to the lofty teach-i ngs of Islam.”
jamiat islami Afghanistan also sent a telegram to Mr. Shara-fuddin Peerzada, the General Secretary of the Organization of Islamic Conferences, in regard to the above issue. The following is its text:
AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111. NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE A
"We deeply regeret the tragic event in Makkah on July 31 and express our condolences' and sympathies to all those concerned.
We propose that the OIC convenes a conference of its members to study the situation and resolve the problems arising from the tragedy in a spirit of brotherhood and in accordance to the lofty teachings of Islam.
The Afghan Mujahideen, and especially Jamiat islami. who have good relations with both the Islamic Republic of Iran and Saudi Arabia are ready to play a constructive role in removing the tension that has been created.
                                                                                            i
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                        TAKHAR PROVINCE
                             MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED KALAFGAN GARRISON
Mujahideen of Jamiat under the command of Makhdoo Abdul Iah. the commander of Kalafgan, launched an attack on the Kalafgan Garrison at 6:20 Pm. July 7,1987. In less then two hours -f they were able to completely capture the Garrison. The reason for their quick success were the size of their forces, the quality of their planning . secrecy of their movements, and the element of surprise
About 500 Mujahideen belonging to various units first gathered in Farkhar. Then they went to Sar Asia village of Kalaf-i . gan by 20 vihicles. At night befor the operation, they took positions in the field and waited until late afternoon of the next day when there was enough day light time for them to to approach the Garrison, but not enough time for Russian Jets and helicopters to intervene.
Mujahideen forces consisted of four mobile units from Panjshii Khos-o-Fereng (Baghan), Kishm (Badakkhshan), and Worsaj (Ta-Khar); Four strike units; and two units of central forces.
In order to prevent the enemy from sending reinforcement. Mujahideen of Taluqan and Keshera undertook simultaneous operations in their regions.
In the operation about 40 puppet regime's soldiers and officers were kiled or wounded and 115 of them were captured.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111. NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 5
Mujahideen also captured 70 pieces of light weapons, tfiye pieces of heavy weapons, and a large amount of ammunitions and food stuff.
Mujahideen causlties included three Martyrs and six wounded.
                    WARDAK-MAIDAN PROVINCE
Jun 25,1987, The Soviet and DRA forces attacked the Mujahideen bases in Maidan area. Six military divisions participi-ted in the offensive. Mujahideen resisted strongly. Heavy fighting continued for 14 days. As a result, the enemy suffered the following casualties:
a- 16 Aircraft were shot down                                  «
b- 45 Tanks and 35 Trucks were burnt.
c- 500 Soviets and puppet soldiers were killed or wounded, d- 200 light weapons seized by Mujahideen.
e- 200 Soldiers and military officers surrendered to Mujah- * hideen along with their weapons, f- 40 Soldiers (including 4 Soviets) were captured.
                                              t
The Mujahideen suffered the following casualties:
l 120 Civilians and Mujahideen, including Abdul Matin (Jamiat commander in Kohnakhomar valley) were Martyred.
2- 300 houses were destroyed.
3- 300 Animals were looted by Soviet soldiers.
                      KUNAR PROVINCE
6/8/1987:  Mujahideen  of Abu Ubaida I bn Jarah unit of Jamiat
Islarni under the command of Dr. sadiq shot down a Russian Helicopter on Thursday August 6.
The Helicopter was going from Chagha Sarai to Jalalabad and was shot down at Chindrawi of Khas Kunar (Kunar Province)
at 3:30 Pm.
18/8/87, Mujahideen under the command of Dr. Sadiq attacked enemy positions in Chauki and Khas Kunar. They destroyed Three Tanks and six other vehicles and burned down a weapon depot and a house belong to a local communist. Moveover, 11 Malitias -including two "Maliks" serving as militia commander-- were killed and 24 others were wounded.
18/7/87, Mujahideen of Diwagal under the command of Mualem Mustafa attacked an enemy convoy. The enemy fought back and the fighting1; lasted for eight hours. Five enemy soldiers were killed and eight were wounded. Some Vihicles were also damaged.
16/7/87. Mujahideen of Abu Ubaida unit under the command of Saleem Khan attacked the Yargul artillary unit and a reconnaissance post. A weaponary depot and five houses belonging to local communist were burned down, one tank and three other vihicles were destroyed, five puppet soldiers were wounded, and the commander of the post was killed.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL, HI, NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 6
                   LOGAR PROVINCE
1/7/87, Mujahideen of Jamiat islarai under the command of Ahmadullah Hasanzada and Mujahideen of Mawlawi khalis' Hizb Islami under the command of Mia Muhammad Agha launched a joint operation on Baangi and Garang military posts. The fighting lasted from i;oo Pm to 9:00 Pm. Both posts were completely destroyed. Mujahideen captured 11 Klashinkovs, one P.K., one D.SH.K., one Mortar, 200 hand granades, one communication set, nine Radios, 200,000 Klashinkov bullets, and 80,000 D.Sh.K. bullet^, jn the operation four enemy soldiers were killed'and another four along with two officers were captured. One Mujahid was wounded.
12/6/87, Mujahideen of "Martyred Eng. Zahid front" shot at a Russian gunship helicopter in Mizgeen by firing R.P.Gt7 1 rocket launcher. The helicopter fell down near Karaiz SurKh of Mohammad Agha district. The next day Russian troops came by land and air and removed the shattered pieces of the copter to Kabul.
                    LAGHMAN PROVINCE
6/7/87, Mujahideen of Hazrat Umar unit located in Qarghaie district attacked enemy's Khairokhail and Gerdabim military posts. The fighting lasted from 5:00 Pm. to 9:00 Pm. Both posts were-destroyed and 25 soldiers were killed. One tank was also destroyed by mine explosion.
5/7/87, Mujahideen of Hazrat Ali front attacked Spe’en Tahna, Mithli Kamar and Gerdawa military posts along the Kabul-Jalalabad highway. Gerdawa Tahna was completely destroyed and the other two posts were heavily damaged. One tank and seven trucks were also destroyed and a large number of the enemy troops were killed or wounded.
                    NINGERHAR PROVINCE
                                                 4
23/7/87, The Shinwar Mujahideen of Jamiat I&lami in joint operation with Mujahideen of other organizations attacked the c.ery's military posts in Ghani Khail, Nazian, and Aach-een districts and Dour Baba Sub-district. The fighting lasted for 24 hours. Three posts were captured by Mujahideen and subsequently destroyed, and other posts were also heavilv damaged. More than 60 enemy soldiers were killed and a large number Bare wounded As a result of the enemy bombardment, six Mujahideen were Martyred and four were injuTed*
                    GHAZNI PROVINCE
8/7/S7, Mujahideen launched an attack on Kampani and the Seventh Division headquarters from 6:00 Pm. to 9:00 P.m.
One old hotel and several houses were damaged. Eighteen soldiers and five officers were killed.
                    PAKTIA PROVINCE
Mid July, 1987, the puppet regime distributed 101 Kalashin-kovs ana other light weapons to the people of Musa Khail district so that they use them against Mujahideen. When the Mangal Council of Mujahideen under the command to Mirza Khan approached those people, however, all of them joined the Mujahideen and surrendered their weapons.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL, 111,NO. 15&16, 15/8/87 PAGE 7
      We recieved the following Poem from one of our readers from Hawaii, U.S.A. We thank him for his cooperation.
                   A CROP OF DREAMS ( in Memoriam:    Khalili, the Poet of Afghan Resistence.)
          The blinding night
          Covering the twisted mountain path.
          The tall fir trees
          Engulfed by the dark roaring winds.
          The arrogant peaks
          Pitched against a thundering snowstorm.
  Down in the valley
  A stream in flood, swelling steadily. - The wooden bridge has just come down. The passing caravan is in a disarray. The fallen pony had a three year old Nested on top of its load.
Mothers, like poets.
Plant dreams in the heart of history. The drowned three year old Is a dream now;
The dream of freedom.
The mountain stream will ever flow In the heart of the wailing mother. Deeper and deeper.
           In this war
           Pitched against a deadly oppressor Is a crop of dreams.
           The dreams of mothers.
           Mighty sons! fight on.
           The day is not far
           When the blinding night will grumble.
           Dreams are stronger than death.
                                                                          Mohammad A. Adeel
* The allusion is to the Biblical line ‘Love is stronger than death’ .
-AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO. 15&16,   15/8/87  PAGE 8
LANDMARK OF MUJAHIDEEN UN1 NT INSIDE AFGHANISTAN
A lofty Conference of Mujahideen--unprecedented in the past 10 years of Jehad--was held in Saghar district of Ghor province from July 12 to July 23. The meeting took place at the invitation of Ismael Khan, the General Amir of Jamiat Islami Mujahideen in South-Western provinces. About 1200 commanders or their representatives from the provinces of Herat, Ghor, Badghis, Faryab.parah, Helmand, Kandahar, Urozgan, Wardak,
Logar, and Kabul took part in the Conference. The participants were not only from Jamiat Islami, but from other six major Mujahideen organizations as well. They included Dr. Fazlullah (Jamiat, Logar), Mullah Naqibullah (Jamiat, Kandahar), Sayyed « Muhammad Akbar (Jamiat, Farvab). Abdul Kareem (Jamiat, Badghis), Sayyed Ayoob (Itehad Islami. Ghor), Hajl Akhtar Muhammad (Mahaz, Murghab of Badghis), Mirza Abdul Rahman (Hezb.Teyora of Ghor), Amanullah (Hezb, Nawzad of Helmand), and Mulla Muhammad Shah (Harakat Inqilab.Farah).
In the last day of the meeting, in which more than 4000 Muja-hideen-~including the commanders and their representatives--partieipated the following resolution was passed:
1-  The right to dertermine the future destiny of Afghanistan belongs to the inheritors of the martyrs and to the faithful Mujahideen who are engaged in a fierce struggle in the battlefields and are ready for martyrdom. No one elase will be allowed to infringe on their right.
2-  Russians must leave Afghanistan unconditionally and stop the bloodshed of our innocent people.
3-  Russians cannot leave Afghanistan securely without paying
war compensations.
4- we Mujahideen will not lay down our arms and stop our armed Jehad until a just Islamic government is established in Afghanistan, the Holy Quran becomes the Supreme 'law, and the banner of Oneness is hoisted on our lofty mountains.
5-  we strongly condemn and reject the decietful "Ceasefire", and "Coalition government" proposed by the Russians and their
puppets.                                                        :
6- Unity of Jehad ranks inside Afghaistan must be accomplished.
7-  The Conference discussed how to intensify coordinated and comprehensive operations against the invading Russian troops all over the country and made appropriate decisions.
8 wireless Communication among Mujahideen should be established all over Afghanistan. Serious efforts must be made to
remove any obstacles that may exist.
9- Mujahideen should cooperate more in exchanging their Jehad experiences, revealing Russian plots and tactics and helping each other in military training.
10 The conference discussed Afghan people’s social and economic problems and made appropriate decisions.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111, NO, 15&16,    15/8/87 PAGE 9
11-  It. was dcided to establish some strong bases in important strategic parts of Afghanistan jointly operated by various Mujahideen organizations. They will serve as strongholds for anti-Russian operations and as training centres,
12-  Joint courts (by all Mujahideen organiztions) should be established at provincial and district levels in order to facilitate the solution of people's legal problems.
13- Authoritative legal teams should be appointed in defferent regions to quickly settle people’s disputes.
14- The Conference discussed medical problems of the people and the wounded Mujahideen and made appropriate decisions.
All the Afghan doctors who live as refugees outside the country are requested to cooperate.
15-  It was decided to hold a second Conference within six months in order to form the Superrae Revolutionary Council
of Jehad, to determine the future of the oppressed Afghanistan people, and to decide on the operation and coordination of military activities in Afghanistan.                       V
16-  In the next Conference, the provincial Amirs of all the Mujahideen organizations or their authoritative representatives wilt take part.
17-  All the commanders of all the Mujahideen organizations are invited to extend their cooperation by presenting proposals, views and initiatives.
18-  in all the provinces and districts, councils and conferences should be held in order to decide about sending authoritative representatives to the second Conference.
19 - The supreme Councel of Jehad will put pressure on the Mujahideen organizations to bring about genuine unity among themselves aoutside Afghanistan so that decisive military decisions inside and political activities- autside the country lead to complete withdrawal of the Russian troops.
20-,Publication of this resolution is permissible. It will be published in all Miijahideen periodicals.
PROF. RABBAN1S *S TRIP TO WEST GERMANY
On July 20, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani. the leader of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan, went to west Germany to participate in a Conference organized by the Muslims living there.
He remained in Germany after the conference for medical
check-up.
AFGHAN NEWS VOL,111. NO. 15&16.   15/8/87  PAGE 10
                                              JAMIAT OFFICEAL VISITS CANADA AND U.S.A
Dr. Nauibullah Lafraie, the head of the Political Committee of Jamiat islami Afghanistan, visited Canada from June 24 to July 12 at the invitation of Human Concern International, a Canadian non-governmental organization which provides humanitarian assistance to the Afghan Refugees.
During his trip. Dr. Lafraie participated in ISNA Conference in Saint Catherines and the Fourth International Hajj Conference in Toronto. He also makde a short trip to San Jose, CA, to speak at another INSA Conference there.
                                                                                            <
In addition to Toranto, Mr. Lafraie visited Ottawa, the Capital of Canada, Vancouver. Edmonton, and Winipeg. He gave lectures about the recent Russian political maneouvres, Russian atrocities and inhuman acts against the innocent people, and about the Afghan Refugee situation in Pakistan and Iran.
NaJibullah Lafraie also had interviews with the Canadian n news media. His TV interviews included Canada AM and Reflections on Islam and his Radio interviews Included the Morning-side of CBC (nationwide), and CJOR and CENW (Vancouver). He also talked to the editor of the Crescent International and the reporters of the Globe and Mail, Toronto Star. Toronto Sun, Ottawa Citizen. Vancouver Sun, Edmonton Sun as well as to the reporters of several small Islamic publications in the U.S.A. and England who had participated iri the conferences.
During his trip to Canada, Dr. Lafraie also met with some officials at the External Affairs and some members of the Parliament and visited some non-governmental organizations which are active lin provideing humanitarian assistance to the Third world countries.
On his way back to Peshawar, Dr. Lafraie stayed 'for a week in Washingto D.C. He visited the Jamiat Islami Representative office there and met with some members <Jf Congress and the staff of the Committee for Free Afghanistan. He also held a press conference and had interviews with VOA’s Dari Serviece arid current Affairs program.
                                           APOLOGY
Due to unavoidable circumstances, we were not able to publish the First of August issue of Afghan News. We exted our apologies to our readers.