 >

               A ■*<
                            -*
AFGHAN
NEWS
        A Biweekly. Bulletin Of Jami’at Islami Afghanistan Post Box No. 264, Peshawar - Pakistan.
                    THE HOLY MONTH QF RAMADAN
    Muslims are obliged to observe one month of fasting each year.
 In Afghanistan before the Communist Coup it was observed with full honour. The people and government both tried to make every effort to make it easy for the people to practice fasting and saying their special prayers. It was fast and feast. At the end of the day the people of the village or a quarter of the city got together in the mosque and waited for the announcement of sunset which was signalled by cannon fire and radio or the call of prayer. Recitations of the Holy Quran during the month of Ramadan took place and thousands of people took part in them, in all the cities, town and tillages.
    At the end of the month they celeberated the completion of Ramadan, People went to each other's houses. Forgave each other for rude words said , wore their best clothes and gave alms to the orphans end poor. At noon they gathered for special prayers in the biggest mosque of the towns. In order to show their respect, the government forgave and released a number of prisoners.
    After the Coup and especially after the Soviet invasion all that has been completely disturbed. In the cities, Ramadan is observed by ordinary people but government officers and party members hurt the sanctity of the month by eating in public.
    In the liberated areas there is war or the shadow of it. Food is not enough , people can not get together because of the enemy air raids . The Communist regime tries to show it is respecting Ramadan but hypo-era cy reveals itself and mhny people do not attend the congregational prayers led by the so-called Mullah on the government pay roll.
    Families axe divided so the gathering of the whole family is not possible . In some tarwns where 20,000 people lived before, now no one is living and the call for prayers is not heard. Mujahideen and refugees observe i Ramadan in their mountain hideouts and bases while in the occupied towns where the infidel army is living there are not sucto:sS&up +
    On Eid (the celebration of Ramadan) almost all the people go to the mosques with tearful eyes because of the loss of their sons, mother^ ,
 sisters or friends. They visit the graveyards to say prayers for them.
 AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II__________NO. 10       15-5-1986________P-2
   Loss of family members and friends is painful, but more painful is the disturbance to pur spiritual life. The struggle in Afghanistan is to preserve that frQia the destructive designs of the Soviet infidels. The light of Islam will finally defeat the darkness of Communism and tyranny.
              REPLACEMENT OF BABRAK WITH NAJIB
                   NOT A POLICY CHANGE
   The change of individuals within the puppet regime does not repre- ■ sent a change in Soviet policy in Afghanistan. These types of changes are common among Communist regimes. Usually Soviets appoint servants when they think will serve them, and when they are no longer useful or; a better servant is found,they discard them. The replacement „of one puppet by another in Kabul is a game through which the Soviets want to decieve the world on the eve of the Geneva talks and give the world false hopes of a change in policy.
   We do not believe in any policy change unless the whole regime has gone avid all the;Soviet troops have left our country. Najib is a true servant of the Soviets, who has worked with KGB for many years.He only brings more problems to the Afghan nation. History will repeat itself and he will faca the same end as Taraki, Amin and his close friend Babrak,
                  NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELD
                      PARWAN PROVINCE 14-4-1986                      ™”~''
 The enemy attacked Mujahideen controlled areas in Bagram District. As the result of Mujahideen resistance 12 tanks and trucks of the enemy were destroyed with RPG fire or land mines. An unknown number of soldiers (mainly Soviets) were killed. Reports do not mention Mujahideen casualties.
 24-4-86
 About 300 enemy soldiers (mainly from the puppet array) attacked Mujahideen controlled areas. Fighting took place in Deh-Mazar village, 8 enemy soldiers were killed and seven others wounded.
 27-4-86
 Mujahideen attacked Charikar city with mortars. The purpose of the att ack was to disturb the Parcharai celebration of the 27th April Coup. No figure for enemy casualties has been given.
                            HERAT PROVINCE
 29=4-86
 Mujahideen of Herat attacked the border post of Qalai Ghazi. Twelve soldiers were killed and 14mothers injured. Mujahideen captured a large amount of arms and ammunition.

VQLuu-ll
-N.Qi.aQ
15-5-1986     P-3
                           LOGAR PROVINCE
 27-4286
 Mujahideen from Jainiat in Logar attacked the enemy (Soviet & puppet) garrison in Puli Alain with heavy weapons. Thirty five ehemy soldiers and officers were 'killed or wounded. As a result of this attack several of the enemy tanks and trucks were destroyed.
 On the same day Mujahideen from Jaraiat attacked the enemy division in Gardiz, the provincial capital of Paktia province. Casualties are not known yet,
 30-3z86
 A Mujahideen convoy bound to Baghlan province was ambushed by the Russ- •. ians in Logar province. Around 30 people were killed* wounded ©recaptured. Night ambushes against Mujahideen transportation routes is . new more frequent than the previous years.
       " WE LOST TWENTY MILLION MEN TO SAVE OUR MOTHERLAND"
                                          (Soviet Leaders)
                         PAKTIA OFFENSIVE
    The puppet regime and the Soviets boasted about their victories in Paktia, The Soviets and their puppets launched a massive attack against the Mujahideen position in Jawar. The enemy troops suffered heavy casualties but finally Mujahideen had to evacuate the base for a short time.
    The Soviets claimed that they had killed 2,000 Mujahideen while in fact Mujahideen casualties were around 150. The Soviets launched this offensive before the Geneva talks and made great propaganda about the achievements of their forces there.
    Those who know something of a guerilla war understand that fighting for a piece of lend to the last drop of blood is neither wise nor necessary. For any army, especially the army of a super power, which is supported by highly sophisticated helicopters and Jets it is natural to capture a piece of land. The heart of the problem is whether Mujahideen
     AFGHAN NEWS       VOL. II____________________ Jyfc&zlSSfl-----Esi
 inflicted losses on them and continued to harass them or not. F Every
 body admits that here Mujahideen did,
  •
    Some journalists who call these types of operations great achievements for the Communists and crushing defeats for the Mujahideen , do not know about the nature of this type of war. They think of war as a game fought in a court (or country). The guerrilla war has its own rules like mobility, surprise , deceit etc.
    It is necessary to be more mobile, not to give a fixed point for the enemy air force to pound. Some carelessness by the Mujahideen helped the Soviets to achieve their symbolic victory. They permitted a journalist to draw an Engineering diagram of the base showing exactly^where every thing was. The diagram was in scale and very accurate. It was published in a French speaking magazine in France. Maybe the temporary capture of Jawar (about 24 hours) is hard for some Mujahideen to digest but it is a lesson to learn to be more mobile and more careful. When Commander Masoud evacuated the Panjshir valley* it was not considered a brave act. But evasion is a guerrilla tactic which we must not forget.
    The offensive of Paktia was not a victory for the enemy. On the other hand it could be a good lesson for Mujahideen.
                        TWO NEW TYPES OF BOMBS USED
    According to a report sent by Commander Ahmad Shah Masoud of the Panjshir valley the Soviets have been heavily bombing the valley since the beginning of May. As well as the ordinary bombs they used before, they are using two new types:
 1. Time-delay bombs which explode several hours after they have been
 dropped. They are timed to explode in the morning and noon, evening and night.                                     '
 2. An unknown bomb about one meter long and one meter in diameter which are dropped from Mig-29 and su-25 Jets. The bomb is a brick-red-colour and with shiny light fins at the tail end. These bombs weigh most at the tail and this end penetrates l/2 to 1 meter into the ground. The surprising thing about these bombs is that none of them have yet exploded.
    The bomb does not seem to be heavy. When they are dropped a flare is also released from the plane which reaches the ground. Mujahideen do not know yet about the bomb, how it can be defused and what is the
 reason for using them. ,
                AFGHAN DEMONSTRATIONS IN TEHRAN
    Thousands of Afghans living in Iran demonstrated in the cities of Tehran „ Qum, Shiraz and Asfahan to condemn the Communist Coup of 27th
 April.
  AFGHAN NEWS________VOL. II     NO...IQ________ p-5-19.86-------£=£
    More than one million Afghan refugees are living in Iran, some of the Mujahideen organizations have offices there and have permission to work among the Afghan refugees and publish papers.
 Press Release
 Islamabad 4-5-1986 11.00 a*m
IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
      The following is the text of the press conference given by , Prof.Rabbani, spokesman for the coalition of Afghan Mujahi-* deen.
 The whole world including the Russians themselves know that the cruel puppet,Communist regime of Kabul, which has no support from the people of Afghanistan, has survived only with the full support of the
 Russian Red Army.
 We can not think of the present regime in Afghanistan as a government but only as ignoble servants of the Soviet Union. Through their pawns the Russians have committed unprecedented'crimes and broken all forms of international laws. They have contravened the principle of non-interference in a neighbouring country.
 By the merciless massacre on one million innocent Afghans; the destruction of at least 95% of the villages and towns} the destruction of economic foundations of the country which was based 90% on agriculture; by kidnapping our innocent children to educate and indoctrinate them in Marxis ideology; and committing countless other crimes, the Russians have revealed the true nature on their made-in-Moscow proletarian dictatorship.
 While Gorbachev is trying to attract the world's attention particularly the West, for his so-called proposal for a settlement in Afghanistan, the Russian forces are engaged massacring our people, conducting heavy bombardments and launching massive ground offensives against the Mujahideen and defenceless civilians, killing thousands of men, women and children.
 While the Russians are trying to confuse the world with their propaganda, I would lik' to clarify some relevant points*
 Mujahideen are now stronger, more experienced and better organized than before. The Russians will never succeed in changing our absolute determination to gain the complete freedom of Afghanistan from their military presence.
AFGHAN NEWS
VOL. II
N&ul0
15-5-193^
±=6
 2. We will use all kinds of international efforts for a peaceful solution to the Afghan issue, but under no circumstances shall bow to international pressure to agree to a solution which does not benefit our people.
 3. We openly declare that a political solution without the participation of a representative of the people of Afghanistan (Mujahideen)will not be acceptable to us and will be rejected,
 4. Any form of international guarantee, which directly or indirectly recognizes the puppet regime in Kabul now or in the future is not
    acceptable to us
 5. Since the Soviets are responsible for the present situation in Afghanistan we are not ready to accept any conditions in return for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. We demand full compensation for material losses and for those who.have been killed as a result of the invasion.
 6. We are ready to talk to the Soviets about the unconditional and total withdrawal of their troops but we will not lay down our weapons until the last Soviet soldier has left Afghanistan.
 7. We emphasis that Soviet claims that the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan would be dangerous for them, is totally groundless and only a pretext for the pursual of their expansionist policy. We. assure all the nations of the world that we will live in peace with all nations, including the Soviet Union.
    Afghanistan, until the April coup of 1978 had norma^relations with the Soviets. We took no hostile steps to provoke them. Their invasion of Afghanistan indicates their expansionist designs to reach the Indian Ocean and the West of Asia. The Soviets bn different occasions have admitted their mistake in installing a Communist regime in Afghanistan, Gorbachev in one of his comments called Afghanistan "a bleeding wound". If the Soviets are honest they should stop their aggression and the killing of innocent people. They should not make this 'bleeding wound' deeper by continuing to send in troops.
 8. The withdrawal of Soviet troops in phases, over a long period of time is rejected by us. If they insist on this, it is a testament to their evil designs againsttthe people of Afghanistan and their intention to continue to expand inside and outside Afghanistan.
    The Soviets should withdraw their forces immediately. The people of Afghanistan are able to determine their own future government.
AFGHAN


mJ2_________1grfslggfi_______P=2
   Finally I declare again that the cause of all these painful events in Afghanistan is the Soviet invasion. They should withdraw their forces from Afghanistan unconditionally and end the blood bath there. The people of Afghanistan should be left to decide their own future.
                          FROM NEHRU TO RAJIV
 S^-
       Ustad Khalili who is a living history of Afghanistan told the following story:
       Zahir Shah visited India . Ustad was a member of the delegations Nehru invited the Afghan guests to his house. The luncheon was served in the garden. Nehru rotated among the tables to show his hospitality towards Afghans, He come to the table where Ustad was talking to some Indians, They were speaking in Persian. Nehru joined the conversation and showed interest in Persian language. He told a story of his child- • hood, "When an Afghan delegation who were negotiating the independence of Afghanistan arrived in Ludhianna, the then capital of India v our parents sent us to the capital to stay there and every morning go near the guest house to -ee the Afghan delegation when they were going to the conference hall. Our parents prefered to send us to see Afghan delegation than to go to school. This was due to oatipataitt for Afghans who were strttgglingrfof 'their freedom•"
       History repeated itself. Now the struggle is between Soviets and Afghans. But the difference is that the daughter of Nehru could not appreciate freedom fighter/and did not support them. Now is Nehru*s grand son's, Rajiv*svturn. So far he has also failed to show his respect for the cause of freedom of Afghans. We hope he would correct the mistake his mother committed and follow what his grand father was admiring.
 The following comments, first published in the Russian-language magazine "Possyev" are a sample of the Soviet Citizens' views concerning the war in Afghanistan. Note that the Mujahedden are often referred to as "basmachi" - the bandits.
 A WOMAN DOCTOR FROM LENINGRAD
 People are very afraid about the possibility of being sent to Afghanistan. If call up papers arrive there la first of all the fear: "where will they send us?" Nobody even says anything openly, but everybody is afraid: "and all of a sudden to Afghanistan"?
                                                             V
WAR NEWS FROM USSR
A PHYSICIST PROM LENINGRAD
As a whole the people do not approve of the occupation of Afghanistan. Some Bay: “why have we become involved in that affair", others say: "of course it is not good but if it has come to a war, then better not on our territory".
   Several coffins have arrived near Leningrad, In Tolmachero village alone, 8 have arrived. The impression exists that more people are drafted to Afghanistan from the Leningrad region than from the city itself.
                             «
 AN ENGINEER FROM LENINGRAD
 One narrator's contributors went to Central Asia and said that hospitals there were full of wounded and often crippled soldiers. Officially at meetings they say that only bandits, hooligans, and baasachia, who are supported by funds of - US imperialism are active in Afghanistan.
 AN ECONOMIST FROM LATVIA
 At one time in large cities there were almost demonstrations against the war in Afghanistan. But this 1b no longer the case. Mainly because people are afraid: If they start to protest then more will be sent to Afghanistan. Everyone is afraid for their children.
COURTESY: VOICE OF SOLIDARITY JAN - FEB 1986.