Vol 6, No 15                                           August 1,1990
                                                               / s s s s s s .-■ sssssSs/Ss/
f // SSS/S////S//////
                                                                 S s s y y y s.j s s .+ s / s s
Mmmmm
Police
• “ / / / / / / s s / / / / / / / s / ' s s s s s s s *
' / ///
            Mujahideen parties oppose UN repatriation scheme
/.'/////// s / s ////// / /SssSss/jss/sssjisss
     Prof. Rabbani presented graduation certificates to 41 graduates of Jami’at Police Academy on July 11 in Peshawar.
     On the occasion, the Jami'at leader said the establishment of law and'order is a key to the development of a country.
     Jami'at Police Academy was established in 1978 to train young police officers. The Academy Commandant, Colonel Ghulam Ghous Nasiri, 50, said the school trains two types of po-icemen, the commissars - special branch officers - and police constables. The students are chosen from among high school graduates and trained for 18 months. In the addition to professional subjects, religious subjects are also taught. Nasiri said so far the academy has trained one hundred policemen of both types. The graduates are performing their duties in Jami'at offices and some of them are working for the AIG. Some bright students are accepted as instructors in the school.
     The academy is staffed by 19 in.-structors. The instructors are former Afghan police officers.
     Colonel Nasiri is. a graduate of a West German police school and has served in many important posts in Kabul and other provinces before the communist coup of 1978.
     Nasiri was jailed by the communists and after 18 months was released in a general amnesty announced by the regime at the start of the Soviet invasion.
     None of those trained so far have been assigned to posts in the liberated areas, a clear weakness on the part of the school.
     If trained police officers are assigned to the liberated areas, they can introduce modem ways of estbalishing law and order. At the moment, the Mujahideen act as policemen in the areas they control.
    The UN has started implementing a program of "voluntary repatriation" of Afghan refugees with the help of the Government of Pakistan. UN officials expect that a total of 250,000 refugees will return to Afghanistan within three months.
    UN officials have set up 10 offices along the border with Afghanistan, four in Baluchistan and six in NWFP.
    The ration card of each returning family will be bought for Rs.3300 (approximately $150) in cash and 300 kilogram of wheat.
    The UN says the reports sent by the UN officials in Afghanistan indicates that the situation is ripe for the return of the refugees. It also says that its officials in Pakistan have talked to refugees in the camps and a considerable number of them have indicated their willingness to return. Some refugees have left already and have resettled in their areas, the UN says.
    The UN says that in addition to the
 aid recieved by card holder refugees at the border, the UN will provide assistance to all returnees inside Afghanistan.
     The Pakistan Government supports the program and cooperates with UN officials in implementating the repatriation scheme. The US government also supports the UN-sponsored return of the refugees.
     The Mujahideen leaders oppose the program because they think the situation inside is not conducive to the safe return of the refugees. Some of the Mujahideen leaders have even called the repatriation program "a conspiracy against Jehad" and have asked the Pakistan Government to reconsider its policy.
     Reports from along the Afghan border say that only a few families returned their ration cards and went to Afghanistan. A BBC correspondent says in Toorkham post the UN office received no refugees on the first day of the UN repatriation program.
OIG discusses Afghan issue
     The ministerial meeting of Organization of Islamic Countries will be held in Cairo on July 30 to discuss issues facing the Muslim world. Afghanistan 's in the agenda of the
T
    Wrong friendship
    The Indian Prime Minister expressed his support of Soviet Afghan policy during his recent visit to Moscow. The Soviet Union continues to back the Kabul regime which was brought to power by the Red Army in 1979.
    Gorbachev, in return, expressed support for Indian policy in Kashmir. India is using force to quell the Muslim uprising in occupied Kashmir. Muslims in Kashmir are struggling to secure their right of self-determination.
talks of the foreign ministers of the Islamic countries.
     The Afghan Interim Government which is a member of QIC has sent a 7 member delegation to the conference Prof. Rabbani, the Minister of Reconstruction of AIG, leads the Mujahideen delegation. He left Islamabad for Cairo on July 26.
     The Mujahideen delegation will in form the conference about the situation in Afghanistan and ask the conference to reiterate its support for the right of Afghans to determine their future. The Mujahideen delegation will ask the OIC meeting to put pressure on the Soviet Union to stop supporting the il legal regime of Najibullah.
     Hie Mujahideen delegation will support the Palestinian and Kashmiri straggle for self-determination.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page ©
    Herat Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed six tanks and five trucks and killed a considerable number of the regime troops in Karukh District on July 21. The Mujahideen seized two mortars, four machine-guns, 25 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
    The enemy convoy was on its way to the Karukh coal mine when it was attacked. As a result three villages were freed from the control of the communist forces.
    Karukh is located about 90 kilometers east of the city of Herat. In the attack, under the command of Wazir Khan, three Mujahideen were also killed.
   Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council of Jami'at, under Commander Mia Gul, attacked enemy forces in Goga Manda of Koh-i-Safi, destroying six tanks, tWo trucks and one heavy machine-gun. They killed 30 enemy soldiers, wounded six and captured 15. The Mujahideen lost four men and six Mujahideen were injured
    The Mujahideen seized 40 Kalashnikov rifles, three PK machine-guns, four rocket launchers and one 120mm mortar.
    The forces of the regime in Goga Manda are responsible for security for Kabul and the Kabul-Jalalabad road.
    Kabul Province
    One tank and one truck were destroyed and seven regime soldiers were killed and four were wounded when a landmine exploded on 16 July in Deh-Sabz District.
    The mine was planted by Mullah Fazel Ahmad's men, Jami'at commander in Dehsabz and Koh-i-Safi.
    Faryab Province
    Severe fighting between the Mujahideen and regime forces has taken place east of Maimana city, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    The regime militia and secret police with artillery support attacked the Mujahideen positions in Khawja Qotoury on July 22. The Mujahideen resisted the attack, killing 11 enemy soldiers and injuring many others.
    The next day, the Mujahideen captured the strategic Shahsawar Hill after killing 20 enemy soldiers and capturing six.
    In two days of fighting the Mujahideen under the command of Sayyed Alauddin seized 17 Kalashnikov rifles and two heavy machine-guns.
    One Mujahid was killed and seven were injured, the report adds.
    Fighting between the two sides continues.
   Baghlan Province
 ' Regime warplanes bombed the Mujahideen hospital in Andarab District killing a doctor and wounding six people. The hospital which was run by the Supervisory Council in Deh Salah, was bombed by four regime jets two weeks ago. Dr. Mir Ahmad, the head of the Health Committee of SC in Andarab, was killed in the incident and the hospital was destroyed.
    On the same day, two people were killed in Rajgah, in the lower part of Andarab Valley, when the regime jets bombed the area.
    Meanwhile Jami'at commander in Khenjan, North Salang, has been killed with two other Mujahideen in an am-' bush set up by the regime forces.
 Commander Nasim was active Mujahideen leader who led more than 50 armed Mujahideen.
                                               Balkh Province
    Eight regime soldiers stationed in a security post in Deh Dadi joined the Jami'at Mujahideen on July 24. They brought with them 19 guns.
    Twenty armed soldiers defected to the Mujahideen in Daulat Abad District on July 24. They brought with them a truck.
                                            Cmdr. Jaafar killed in Peshawar
    Sayyed Jaafar, Jami'at Chief Commander in Aqcha District, Jawzjdn Province, was killed in Peshawar by unknown gunmen on July 12. In the incident one Mujahid was also killed and seven Mujahideen were wounded.
    Jaafar and his Mujahideen were ambushed when they were returning in a pickup from a refugee camp to Peshawar. The attack took place inside the camp and the terrorists used automatic guns. No arrests have been made yet.
    In the burial ceremony of Jafaar senior members of Jami'at spoke and called his death a great loss to the Mujahideen.
    Khurasan refugee camp is located outside Peshawar and has refugees from northern Afghanistan.
    Jaafar was a famous Jami'at commander in Jawzjan. He started Jehad after the the communist coup of 1978. Although he had received no formal education, he knew the art of war and dealing with people well. Commander Jaafar led more than 400 armed Mujahideen and controlled vast areas of Aqcha District. His base is located about 8 kilometers from the city of Aqcha.
    Jaafar came from a Sayyed family linked to the Safi Pushtun tribe. Sayyeds are descended from the Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) and are respected by the people on religious grounds. The people in Aqcha also respectd Jaafar because of his good character and pleasant manners.
    Commander Jaafar has four brothers two of whom are Mujahideen. One of his brothers, Sayyed Abdul Basir, was appointed by Jami'at to lead Jaafar's Mujahideen after he was killed.
    Jaafar has left behind seven children and a widow.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page ©
     Dear price of wrong choice
   A little man got a pain in his eyes. He went to a vet for a remedy. The vet gave him what he used for animals. The man became blind and complained to the magistrate. The judge said: "Case dismissed! if this fellow had not been an ass, he would not have gone to the vet/'
   The moral of this story is that whoever employs an inexperienced person on an important matter will regret it and will be considered a fool. The wise man never entrusts an important business to a fool.
   A weaver of straw mats is a weaver but not of fine silks.
   Rich, poor argue in graveyard
   I saw a rich man's sol sitting by his father's tomb, disputing with the son of a poor man, saying "My father's monument is of stone, the inscription is in gp.f, with marble and turqoise-glazed tiles. What is your father's grave but a couple of bricks and a handful of earth?" The son of the poor man answered:" Before your father can move from under this heavy stone, mine will have reached paradise."
   There is a saying of the Prophet: "To the poor, death is a state of rest." The ass who carries the lightest baggage travels easiest. So the poor man who bears the burden of poverty will enter the gate of death lightly loaded; while he who lives in affluence, with ease and comfort, will doubtless find death terrible. And, however you look at it, the prisoner who is released, is happier than the nobleman who is taken prisoner.
   Be moderate in your behavior
   Unreasonable anger causes terror; unseaonable kindness undermines authority. Never be so severe as to drive people away nor so lenient that they take liberties with you. Severity and leniency are better balanced; the surgeon both cuts and binds. A reasonable man is neither habitually severe nor weak, but maintains his own dignity. He is neither pompous nor ingratiatingly humble.
   A shepherd boy asked his father: "Give me some advice from the store of your experience." The father replied: "Be generous but keep the ravenous wolf at bay."
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
     •      jy*         Ij
 The sieve says to strainer, "You have holes."
 Meaning: Used of a guilty person who finds fault with others.
        . <j-f uw) ill jl Ijwtf
 You can't clap with one hand.
 Meaning: (a) It takes two to make fight
 (b) Many hands make light work; or, in union there is strength.
     i
        ■iS}>                    jt#
 The onions you serve with affection have value.
 Meaning: Better is a dinner of heroes where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.
 (Oh) empty hand you are my own enemy.
 Meaning: For Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do.
                          Watts
 Student drowned
    Tellah Mohammad Abidi, 28, an Afghan refugee, was drowned in Kabul river while swimming on July 14.
    He was a fourth year student of King Fahd Petrolium University in Saudi Arabia. He had come to Peshawar to visit his family which lives in Pakistan.
    Abidi studied at the Afghan Institute of Technology in Kabul. Abdul Basir, a classmate of his, described him as an industrious student with a good character. He was a regular reader of AFGHANews
    Abidi hailed from Bagram district in Parwan province.


IMIlIiilllllil
 Narrated Hudhaifa:

ill
111!!
!!:!
The Prophet (Peace upon him) said,
Dibaj, tor these things are. tor them (unbelievers) in this world and for you
      "         i:"!?' !!!. !|f
mthe Hereafter.'*
*
	
glllglP
AFGHANews Vol6, No 15, August 1, 1990, page 0
1                              -£V   
&•' 1*0;'Bait; M&i           iewsfff 
j8jjjBjjajjjjjjjjjijji8aafe^         
Editorial                            
_______■                             
   UN repatriation plan unrealistic
     The decision to send Afghan refugees home is premature. It will cause tremendous humanitarian and political problems for the people of Afghanistan. The UN repatriation program is based on assumptions which contradict the realities inside Afghanistan.
     It is based on the theory that the level of fighting has decreased in Afghanistan which permits the return of the refugees. Fighting between the regime and the Mujahideen might not be such as to justify expectations of the fall of big cities but it is enough to keep the situation unsafe for large numbers of refugees.
     The Kabul regime makes use of its air force and long-range rockets against the liberated areas. There is no guarantee that the areas where the refugees return will not become the target of regime attacks. The UN itself admits the presence of millions of mines in Afghanistan and its demining program has so far had no more than symbolic significance..
     The program for the repatriation is based on the information sent by the UN officials based in Afghanistan. There are good reasons to doubt the accuracy and impartiality of these reports. UN officials working for Operation Salaam exaggerate the normalcy of the situation. In theory and practice Operation Salaam has been favoring the Kabul regime. Since the Kabul regime finds the return of the refugees politically useful, the reports filed by Sadruddin's offices in Afghanistan cannot be trusted.
     Similarly the conclusions drawn by the UN about the returning refugees are wrong. Most of those have returned are those who were not registered , and were not entitled to humanitarian assistance by UN organizations in the camps. Registration of refugees stopped some time ago. These people were forced to leave because of conditions in the camps, not because they felt safe, as UN officials claim.
     The UN also ignores the displacement of the people inside Afghanistan as a result of war and also the continuing influx of refugees to neighboring countries . A lot of people still come out of Afghanistan.
     A question arises why is the UN so keen on the return of refugees despite all these problems?
     The UN is facing shortages of funds for the refugees. Return of the refugees reduces pressure on their shrinking budget. The UN program of repatriation is also affected by the political motives of using humanitarian assistance to bring the two sides of the conflict closer together and pave the road for national reconciliation in Afghanistan. Sadruddin has expressed such views on malty occasions in the past and the return of the refugees is thought to help this process.
     There are reasons which make the voluntary nature of the repatriation doubtful. Although the UN and Pakistan are not forcing the refugees to leave, UN officials have been involved in persuading people in the camps and promising UN assistance for refugees inside Afghanistan.
     A refugee living in Baluchistan complained to VO A that UN officials had promised to fly them to Afghanistan but now even trucks were not available to take them.
     The UN officials gives little assistance to the returning refugees but promise a long list of services by the UN in the areas to which they return. For a simple refugee it might give a hope of a peaceful life in his homeland but in reality the UN organizations are not well prepared to fulfill their promises. A good example of such exaggerated claims is the UN demining program. They might have defused a few hundred mines out of several million but in their speeches they declare some provinces as free of mines.
                                           Turn to page (7)
Indians detain Khalqi leader
    Assadullah Sarwary, a prominent Khalqi figure, has been arrested by the Indian police. The Kabul regime has asked for his .extradition.'
    Sarwari was the head of the secret police during Amin's reign and the regime ambassador to South Yemen and left his post before the abortive Tanai coup of March 5. He was on his way to Kabul supposedly to take part in the coup but could not get there on time.
     Rumor says that regime agents snatched his passport in Delhi airpost when he was about to fly to Kabul. Indian authorities confirmed that Sarwari was arrested and charged with lacking proper documents.
    The Kabul regime has said that Sarwari was involved in the coup and he should be sent to Kabul for interrogation. The Indian authorities have not decided what to do with him.
    Najib told repprters that out of 600 people arrested in connection with Tanai's coup, 160 have been released, the rest are facing trial.
                                               Saudi Supports Afghan Jehad
    Saudi Arabia continues to support the Mujahideen struggle to secure their right of self-dtermination.
    This was stated by Prof. Rabbani, Jam'at leader, in an interview with MIDIA.
    Prof. Rabbani said that the Saudi Government sent a message to Muslim pilgrims expressing support for the Mujahideen and describing the Afghan cause as an important issue for the Muslim world. The message expressed the hope that all Muslim countries should continue to support the Mujahideen.
    Saudi Arabia has given substantial moral and material support to the Mujahideen and is the only country to have cut off diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime. It has recognized the Interim Government of the Afghan Mujahideen.
                                    Soviet killed in Kabul
   A Soviet expert was killed and two others were injured by s Mujahideen rocket which hit the cultu ral office of the Soviet Union in Kabul on July 22, TASS reported from Moscow. The building was partially damaged.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1,1990, page @
Who is who in Mujahideen
 Cmdr. Sayyed Allauddin
     Sayyed Allauddin, Jami'at commander in the center of Faryab, leads about 300 Mujahideen. He is famous for his fearless operations against the regime forces.
     Here are some of his operations:
     •Karwan Bashi post which was protected by 300 enemy troops were captured in 1989. In the operation 22 enemy troops were killed. Six Mujahideen were killed.
     •In the same year, Deh Maida post was captured after killing 32 communists and wounding 12. Seven Mujahideen lost their lives in the attack.
     •Deh Azizan post was captured in 1988. Twelve soldiers were captured and 14 guns seized in the operation in which Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
     He has been supported in the fighting against the regime by two other Jami’at commanders in Maimana, Commander Attiyatullah and Sufi Samad. The later was killed some weeks ago.
     Allauddin has learned fighting through practical' experience. Despite his participation in many wars he has not been wounded.
     Allauddin started his armed struggle with his cousin Sayyed Noor Mohammad Hashimi, who organized the people against the communist regime. Hashimi was a great man with deep knowledge in Islam and reputation for honesty. He worked with Hashimi first as a Mujahid and later as a group commander.
     When Hashimi was martyred in 1984, Allauddin took his place. Work
 with Hashimi had a positive effect on Allauddin. Although he was not of Hashimi's caliber to maintain the standard of his work, he managed to protect his organization.
     Allauddin is famous for his courage in the battlefield and Islamic character. He treats his Mujahideen and the people with affection, but he is a fierce enemy of the communists.
     A close friend of his said Allauddin is hampered by a lack of higher education which prevents him from planning in advance and conducting a war of sophisticated strategy. He could be described as a good tactician.
     Despite his military engagements, he has paid attention to the education of children in his area. He has opened a school which has eight classes and many mosque schools.
     He treats the Ulama (religious scholars) with respect and makes use of their influence to persuade people to take part in Jehad.
     Allauddin learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. At the age of seven he went to primary school. He stopped attending school after four years, and started to work with his cousin as a shopkeeper.
     Sayyed Allauddin was . bom 32 years ago in Kohi Khana suburb of Maimana. His father, Sayyed Ebrahim was a Qari (one who has memorized Holy Quran). Allauddin is a Sayyed linked to the Persian speaking Aimaq. Commander Allauddin have two brothers helping him in Jehad. His third brother was killed in the war. He is married and has one child.
No accord between AIG, Shi as
     The three-week long talks between the Wahdat party and the AIG ended without a major achievement. The delegation of Iran-based Wahdat party left Peshawar on July 14 with a hope to continue discussions in the future.
     A member of the delegation told reporters that they had useful talks in Peshawar. The delegation met with all the Mujahideen leaders within and outside the AIG and held , talks with UN officials about humanitarian assistance to areas close to the Iranian border.
     The delegation and AIG agreed on the constitution of a 12-member committee from both sides to deal with the problems between the Mujahideen in Uruzgan, Ghazni, Maidan and Bamyan provinces. The situation in Uruzgan is
 tense because Hazara and Pushtun ethnic groups have clashed over control of land and pasture.
     The Wahdat party delegation showed keen interest in the formation of a war council comprising the political leaders and commanders to escalate the war.
     Views were also exchanged over the issue of elections. The Wahdat party insisted that 25 percent of the representatives should come from the Shia population of Afghanistan.
     The Wahdat party is opposed to the participation of refugees living in the West in the formation of a leadership council for the resistance, but favors participation of all Muslim Afghans in the election.
:
  v Iluly re^-opCned its embassy Kabul onjuly 19* .Western countries closed their embassies in Kabul in 1989 on security grounds. Franco was the; we^em country to |e-6pen ts embkssyin Kabul one month ago. **«
 I!;                            uhl
 portant communist figure, of the Khalq faction, was appointed governor of           and Jumi ;i^ek^..a
 Ruthless, gene^fpf the re^me>:| the: military commander of that prp|jnt§. Asek M ^ned the tide of the of" the herei^              because Ids
 military engagements against the Muj;

    Oeii^ Abdm Rahman, a pilot, was killed in an air crash, the regime radio reported. He was. buried in Kabuliaud was:
 vices 'to the regith& , '   '
 |- • | _
 fillip
 forces attacked a Mujahideen milt larycdhvoy near Jaflfil kifiiril^:46 jpo^^                 JSiadtJhe
 attack was launched againsf<3^||
 |p»ojys f. firing .'cSifeilf
 the closure of Toorkham, private jhders are.. using
 lIlTh^fcus^
 femeiess whttt: Jheir washed a way; by: floods;; ;The|i|i|; gees lived, in Khishkoh Refugee; Camp near Peshawar. The refugees lost ail their household belongings. Fifteen mosques and some were also destroyed.. Thief refagees have b^ri to a new camp. .
 lllyifc
 Bid festival was held in Shar-bSafa ^•Kandahar. Mujahideen and Ordi nary people from difFeient districts .of the; province got togeth|i:; land ceje t«&d Bid by b<ddin|^C9l;^y^p and other healthy enrertamma»ts. The week-long celebrations passed peacefully and even the Kabbl ieg^mildid
 inotbohib
 *___________1_____J
                                           AFGHANews Vol6, No 15, August 1,199Q, page©
Muslims are awakening in
     Two new parties have been formed in Tajikistan, Soviet Union, to struggle to secure the economic, social . political and religious rights of the people of the republic.
     One of the parties is called Tajikistan Democratic Party and the other Tajikistan Islamic Party.
     The Islamic Party publishes a paper called Hedayat (guidance) which is very popular among Muslims all over Central Asia.
     These parties want to enter the Republic Parliament. The- communist party of Tajikistan has asked for a dialogue with the newly formed parties. The new parties have linked holding talks with the resignation of the communist party leaders of the republic who are blamed.for the killing of demonstrators at the beginning of the year.
     In an article under the tittle "Islam alive and well in Doshanbe" Yaqub Zaki writes in Crescent International that at first glance, Doshanbe does not look like a Muslim city. No minaret is in sight. The weekly holiday is Saturday and Sunday, not Friday, the object of which is to prevent people attending the mosque. The statues in the city square are of non-Muslims and the names of famous buildings are un-Islamic.
     But the first impression never tells the whole story. Off the main Boulevard we entered a mosque for Eid prayers. A large number of youths were among the worshippers. Someone said youth interest in religion is not new. Young people have always practiced religion but in the past they did it secretly so as not to jeopardize their carreer.
     The mosque we attended was one of the 65 mosques operating in. Tajikistan. On average one mosque is opened each month. The opening of a mosque does not pose any architectural problem. Most mosques were turned into store houses under communist rule. They need some repair.
     Under Stalin 35 mosques operated in Tajikistan which was reduced to 17 under Khruschev. Perestroika reached Central Asia late. Until one and half years ago only 17 official mosques were open.
     Alongside the official mosques, there were 1,666 underground mosques operating in the republic. We visited one of these mosques which looked like a chaikhana, tea house, and was concealed from the road.
     There are also underground Madrasa (religious schools) where students study at night using tapes to perfect their knowledge of Arabic.
     The Imam of Yaaqoub Charkhi mosque told us the horror stories of up to two years ago. Muslim school children were forced during Ramadhan to drink water. Soviet Muslims feels that they have just awakened from a nightmare.
     The deputy commander of Central Asia Border Guards said 200 armed Afghans have crossed the border into Tajikistan to create law and order problems in the republic.
     A Tajik journalist told the BBC by telephone from Doshanbe, the Tajik republic capital, that the army was fabricating the story to justify its presence in Central Asia. He said the incursion of such a large number of people into Tajikistan is not possible.
                   UN officials told not to enter liberated areas from cities
     Commander Ismail Khan of Jami'at has asked UN relief officers working in the areas controlled by the Kabul regime not to enter the Mujahideen areas.
     In a letter, to Sadruddin Agha Khan, UN Coordinator, he said the Mujahideen do not approve the entry into Mujahideen territory of officials of organizations working with the regime.
     The letter said some time ago three UN officials working inside the city of Herat entered the Mujahideen territory in the eastern part of Enjeel District without prior contact with the Mujahideen. They were captured by
 the Mujahideen and were released after the UN office in Enjeel pleaded for their release.
     The letter warns that such unauthorized entries could lead to unwanted incidents. The officials involved might be hurt because the Mujahideen cannot differentiate between the enemy and un-authorized UN officials.
     Ismail Khan says if the UN wants to provide humanitarian assistance in the areas controlled by the Mujahideen it should do it through the UN office in Enjeel which is located in the liberated area.
                                       RADIO MOSCOW TERMS IRAN'S AFGHAN POLICY CONFUSING
   Radio Moscow has criticized Iran's position on Afghanistan saying that Tehran's Afghan policies have never been coherent, Iranian paper Kayhan Hawai wrote.
   Referring to the visit to Tehran of the UN Secretary General’s special envoy for Afghanistan, Radio Moscow said Iran's key role in the issue was understood the world over, including in UN circles. The prospect of a settlement of the Afghan issue to a large extent depends on Tehran's stand, said the radio commentary, adding that the complexity of the problem was that Tehran's policies towards Afghanistan were not consistent. It said, for instance, the Islamic government of Iran does not recognize the Kabul regime and at the same time is in no hurry to break offdiplomatic relations with it.
   The radio Moscow commentator, Yari Andriev, added that Tehran claims to support a political settlement to the Afghan issue but still continues to arm and finance the opposition groups (Mujahideen).
   The commentator also said Tehran has announced its backing for a regional conference on Afghanistan with the participation of die interested parties, including the Soviet Union and Afghanistan the Kabul regime) but the Iranian leaders seem not to rule out the military victory of the Mujahideen if they become united.
                                          Indian minister visits Kabul
   The Indian Deputy Foreign Minister reached Kabul on July 22 for a two-day official visit. He extended an invitation to Najibullah to visit India in the near future.
                                      Benazir discusses Kashmir,Afghanistan
   The Prime Minister of Pakistan discussed situation in Kashmir and Afghanistan with the leaders of five Islamic countries in the Middle East and North Africa. The purpose of the trip was to inform the leaders of these countries about situation in Kashmir prior to the OIC foreign ministers meeting in Cairo to be opened ext July 31.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 15, August 1,1990, page 0
           UN deploys manchines to clear minefields
  Mohammad Es'haq £»
    The UN demining program will enter a practical phase when the newly acquired mine-clearing machines are in action in Afghanistan.
    The UN Coordinator's Office for Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan invited journalists to watch the mine-clearing demonstration by Aarvark Flail Unit in Resalpur traing camp, outside Peshawar on July 22.
    The machine looks like a bulldozer. The flail rotQr is fitted with 72 strike chains. When the machine operates, the chains continuously hit the ground causing mines to explode. It can Clear a path three meters wide.
    One of the two machines, located about 100 meters from the press conference, demonstrated the mine-clearing operation. The rotating chains in front of the machine produced a column of thick dust as they pounded the ground continually where some mines were planted. After a few seconds the first mine exploded which was followed by other explosions.
    The machine is made by a British firm which developed it from the idea of the first mechanical mine-clearing device built in 1943 and used on D-Day.
    The weight of the machine and its slow movement make it less desirable for use in a combat situation. In 1983 the Aarvark Flail Unit was manufactured to clear mine fields when hostilities have stopped.*
    The Machine is able to clear mines of any kind from 1000 meters in one minute. Armored plates are fixed between the flail unit and the driver's cabin to protect the driver.
    , Tt was clear that this machine would do a good job in relatively flat areas. But the machine might face some problems in rocky terrain.
    The mine-clearing machines will be used by Afghans who are learning how to use it.
    Zia Rizwi, the Deputy Coordinator of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan' said the introduction of the mine-clearing machines was an important step for Operation Salaam, which is responsible for clearing mines in Afghanistan.
    Before the mine-clearing demonstration, the leaders of the three UN-funded Afghan organizations which carry out mine-clearing operations and described their work in Afghanistan.
 From their briefing it seemed that little work has been done in mine clearance in Afghanistan. Limited mine-clearing operations have been carried out in Kunar, Paktika and Kandahar.
     The UN claims that it has trained more than 10,000 Afghans in mine-clearing but only a few groups have been involved in practical mine-clearing.
     Introduction of the new machines in sufficient numbers might make the operation more effective, provided the organizational work is done properly.
     Rizwi briefed the journalists about Operation Salaam. He said criticism of the program was not justified. It was clear that he wanted to paint a positive picture of the situation by claiming that through Operation Salaam UN aid reached people in 29 provinces of Afghanistan last year.
     He said the main priority of Operation Salaam was sunpest and locust eradication in northern Afghanistan. He said new technology and pesticide can improve the situation.
     Rizwi said the Kabul regime was fully cooperative with the UN and he had met the new Prime Minister of the regime, Khaliqyar, whom he. describe as a "non-party man". ;
     The press handouts of Operation Salaam listed the name of countries which had contributed to funds for UN Demining Program. The list included Western countries and Japan. The Soviet Union which is responsible for all the mess in Afghanistan has given no money for the demining program in Afghanistan.
      Rizwi said Iran has agreed to allow a demining program to start with the refugees in that country.
     He stressed that UN Operation Salaam was purely humanitarian. He said that he did not favor any side in the conflict But the Mujahideen accuse Operation Salaam of favoring the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime has benefited from the program economic cally and politically.
     The Mujahideen also reject the claims of Rizwi about distribution of UN aid to all Afghans in 29 provinces. Most of the goods brought by Operation Salaam to Afghanistan via the Soviet Union have been distributed in the regime-controlled areas and most of it has reached militia forces of the regime. In the North, Ismaili militiamen are the major, beneficiaries of UN aid through Operation Salaam.
Editorial
From page (4)
     In addition to practical problems which work against the safe return of refugees, there are political reasons for the resistance to oppose the program.
     The Kabul regime has always used die refugees' return for its own political purposes. The "Peace Guest Houses" which receive the returning refugees in some cities are financed by UN but used by the regime for political propaganda.
     For the reasons given, Jami'at opposes tiie repatriation of refugees under present conditions. Jami'at feels that the continuation of war poses a serious threat to the safety of the refugees and there is danger of re-displacement of the returning refugees.
     Jami'at does not agree with the claims of availibility of UN assistance to all returning refugees in Afghanistan because the UN has not developed an organiztion to deal with this problem. Jami'at is also opposed to the free movement of UN officials between the regime controlled areas and the territories controlled by the Mujahideen and we have expressed our opposition to the idea of" zones of tranquility" proposed by Sadruddin.
     Jami'at believes that the repatriation of refugees is not possible until an acceptable government has been formed in Afghanistan.
     The Mujahideen leaders have a duty to warn their fellow refugees about the danger facing the refugees and the political consequences of their decision based on advice by foreigners This does not mean that the Mujahideen will use force to prevent the refugees as the UN handouts suggest.
     By highlighting the danger facing the .returning refugees inside Pakistan, the UN has fallen in a propaganda trap set up by the Kabul regime. The Kabul regime claimed for several years that the refugees were nomads and now claims that they are the virtual prisoners of Pakistan and of extremist parties within the resistance. The real danger to the refugees is not in Pakistan but in Afghanistan. They will face the danger of mines, attacks by regime militia, aerial bombings, rocket attacks and finally by lack of food, clothing and medicine.
AFGHANews Voi 6, No 15, August 1,1990, page ©
Soviet Mufti
to any role for Najib
     Yuli Vorentsov's proposal that some powers of Najib be transferred to an election commission representing all parties in the conflict has generated optimism in foreign circles interested in finding a political solution to the problems of Afghanistan. The resistance has rejected the proposal.
     Vorentsov is the Soviet Ambassador to the UN. He has served as the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul during and after the Soviet troop withdrawal.
     Vorentsov's plan, recommends a symbolic role for Najib during elections. Najib's control of the army, secret police and media will be transferred to the election commission representing all parties, including the regime.
     This proposal is not officially tabled yet but observers believe that it might be discussed in the coming meeting of Soviet and US foreign ministers in the Siberian city of Irkurtsk. The US earlier had proposed a phased plan according to which Najib had to resign from his post at some stage after the beginning of the political process for solving the issue. It is thought that Vorentsov's proposal is a modified form of the US plan.
     BBC quoting Najib reported that he was read.y to hand over some of his powers to a representative council to achieve peace. But later Najib said he Was misunderstood. Najib said he was not ready to limit his power but wanted a commission formed from both sides. Mujahideen and regime, to help keep the peace during elections.
     Abdul Wakil, the Kabul regime foreign minister, said Najibullah must lead the country during the transitional phase. He said outside powers cannot impose leaders on the Afghans. These are the words of the minister of a regime which was brought to power by Soviet armed forces on December 27, 1979. The Soviet Union fought to impose it on the people for nine years arid its survival depends on Soviet economic, military and political support.
 Recently the regime defence minister ruled out de-politicizing the regime army and secret police, saying that the prevailing situation in the country did not permit such a change.
     US efforts to reach an agreement, with the Soviet Union on apolitical solution to the problem of Afghanistan are not directly related to the Afghan resistance. Normally, the US coordinates its efforts with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. The resistance is informed about the decisions after they have been taken.
     The Kabul regime and the Soviet Union coordinate their activities. Minor public differences of opinion between the two are allowed to give credibility to the regime and to strengthen the position of the Soviet Union in the negotiations;
     To promote a political solution of the Afghan problem, Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, met with the former king, Zahir Shah, in Rome on July 9 and 10. The two sides discussed the Afghan situation. Talking to VOA, Tomsen said the United States considered the former king part of the Afghan resistance. He said the king was a prominent Afghan figure who had opposed the Soviet-imposed Kabul regime on many occasions.
     Tomsen's visit with the former king will give further weight to the argument by some of the resistance leaders that the US wants to see the king back in power. United States officials have denied the changes saying their country did not prefer any group or individual among the Afghan resistance.               $
     The US-Mujahideen relations suffered another setback when the intelligence committee of the US Senate decided to propose a 33% cut in US military support to the Mujahideen in the coming fiscal year.
      ’file US decision comes at a time when the Soviet Union military support which reaches $300-400 million per month still continues.
     The US law makers are critical of their government’s Afghan policy and
                      seeks release of PO Ws
    A delegation of Soviet Muslims headed by Mufti Mohammad Sadyk Mamayusupov tried to secure the release of Soviet prisoners of war from Mujahideen custody during its 10-day tour of Pakistan.
    Sadyk is the chairman of the USSR Muslim Religious Board for Central Asia and Kazakhstan.
    He held talks with Professor Mujaddidi, the President of the Afghan Interim Government, on July 25 in Peshawar and discussed with him the issue of Soviet prisoners of war.
    The Soviets say there are more than 300 Soviet servicemen who went missing in Afghanistan and who are thought to be in the custody of the Mujahideen.
    Talking to newsmen on his arrival, the Mufti said the Soviet Muslims were keen to see an end to the Afghan war.
    The Mujahideen want to exchange Soviet prisoners of war with Mujahideen captured by the Soviet and regime forces.
    The President of the Russian Federation has said his republic will halt shipments of weapons produced on its territory to Afghanistan in a bid to win the release of Soviet prisoners of war.
    Boris Yeltsin was quoted as saying the republic's big weapons industry would be forced to answer to the new Russian government. "If today they are fighting inside our boys are suffering; the situation must change." Yeltsin told mothers of Soviet prisoners.
    "We are talking not about Kalshnikovs, but about rockets which are built by factories in the Russian federation." Yeltsin said.
                                                     fHelp us publish
                                                 ‘Please send your donations to the fottouring account number:
            ynHWD Account 9{p. 735-37 (Habib (Bank^Ltd.
                                                     ‘Teheed (Bald, (Peshawar (Pakistan
  __________________!___________
    TheMujahideen reject Vorentsov's proposal because it involves "die Kabul , regime in the political process. On the might. be disappointed by the lack of other hand, the nominal transfer of Mujahideen progress in the battlefield, power from Najib to a newly formed the decision will not improve the commission does not change the na- situation. It makes the Mujahideen ture of the regime institutions which wea^er niilitanly and passes the signal are organized on a party basis, to the Soviets that time is in their favor.
 IiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii
       By: Habibur Rahman
    iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiill
Vol 6, No 16                                             August 15,1990
                   Cairo meeting supports Mujahideen
     The QIC ministerial conference in Cairo-supported the Mujahideen efforts to secure their right of self-' determination.
     The 19th conference of the foreign ministers of the Islamic countries was opened in Cairo by President Husni Mubarak on July 31.
     The conference asked the member states and all the rest of the world to give support to Afghan refugees and help reconstruction efforts in Afghanistan. The Islamic Bank will study the reconstruction program of Afghanistan.
     The conference emphasized the need for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. It felt the need for a broad-based representative government as a mean to bring peace in that country.
     The foreign minsters’ conference felt that return of peace was necessary to give permission for the refugees to return voluntarily and in honor to their country.
     The resolution asked the member countries to send humanitarian assistance to the people inside Afghanistan.
     The Mujahideen delegation in the conference was led by Prof. Rabbani. He informed the conference about the situation in Afghanistan and the need for giving; support to the Mujahideen.
     Prof Rabbani held private talks with many delegations attending the conference to inform them about the situation in Afghanistan. He also talked to the OIC Secretary General Hamid-ul-Ghabid. The Mujahideen delegation took a bold stand in opposing the Kuwait invasion by Iraq.
     The resolution adopted on Afghanistan was prepared by a committee including the representatives of Pakistan, Iran, Afghan Mujahideen, PLQ and Syria.
     The Cairo conference was rignifi-cant because it precedes meeting of head states of Islamic countries in /January oH^j ip Senegal.
UN prediction about massive return of refugees unrealistic
     Primary figures show that the UN repatriation program of the Afghan refugees has not been as successful as predicted.
     From July 25 to August 5, only 815 families have returned their ra-, tion passes to the UN authorities and have received Rs. 3300 in cash and 300 kilogram of wheat.
     The UN expects to send 40,000 refuge families back to Afghanistan within three months.
     Most of the returning refugees belong to the camps in Baluchistan. UN says 522 families have returned from Baluchistan and 293 families from North-West Frontier Province.
     The UN program^ backed by Pakistan and theUS, is opposed by the Mujahideen parties. The Mujahideen argue that the situation in Afghanistan does not allow the safe return of the refugees. They are also worried about the political benefits that the Kabul regime will gain from implementation of the UN program.
     The Afghan refugees opposed to the program staged demonstrations in two camps in Baluchistan, calling the program a conspiracy against Jehad. A group of 216 Ulamas have signed a declaration calling the program a conspiracy of Ismailis against Jehad, an open reference to Sadruddin Agha Khan's involvement in the program. Agha Khan belongs to the leading Ismaili family. Most Ismailis in Afghanistan are cooperating with the communist regime in Kabul
     A group of elders in Bajawor Agency refugee camps have said the returning refugees from Kunar will be fined by the local authorities inside Afghanistan.
     Despite all the opposition no violent action has been reported against >4he returning refugees inside Pakistan.
     The repatriation program lias met the mixed reaction of Pakistanis. Some people have shown pleasure that finally the refugees were leaving. Some prO-Najib parties have asked the refugees to
 return. The Islamic parties, on the other hand, have opposed the program and havb called it premature.
     Some Pakistani Ulamas said in their Friday sermons that while the communist regime was still in power in Kabul the return of refugees was not safe.
     BBC reported that five unregistered refugees living jn the tribal area in Pakistan were apparently fenced to return to Afghanistan by a local tribal leader, Malik Nadir Khan. He has formed an armed group and is busy working for cease-fire and national reconciliation.
     The Kabul regime has tried to gain propaganda benefit from the UN program. Regime diplomats in Pakistan tried to say that the situation in Afghanistan was normal for the return of the refugees.
     The cabinet of the regime also met to discuss arrangements for the rehabilitation of the refugees. Listening to the UN officials and the regime one wonders who was in charge of the program!
     The three million refugees living in Pakistan are divided into two Categories: The registered refugees who get assistance from Pakistan and UN authorities and un-registered refugees who receive no assistance.
     The current UN program helps only the registered refugees while most of those who have returned are the un registered refugees escaping the hardship of life in exile.
     Those refugees who return say that the UN cash and wheat allo wances are not enough to take -diem to their villages.
     A Western relief worker who has a lot of experience with Afghan problems says security and means of making living are the two concerns of the refugees. If the area is not safe and a means of living is not available, the refugees will not return. "Afghans know 'their country better than any outsider. They will go when they feel the situation is suitable,” he said.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©.
    News
From The Battlefields
 Badakhshan Province
   The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami captured 20 soldiers and 40 guns When they attacked a regime security post near Faizabad, the provincial capital, on July 26, Hindukush News Agency reported.
   Kabul Province
   Jami'at commander in Dehsabz District was killed in action on Julay 23. Captain Fateh Mohammad, 34, led 50 armed Mujahideen. He started Jehad after the communist coup of 1978.
   Fateh had graduated from the Kabul Military school. He was bom in Tara Khail village, Dehsabz, and has left behind a widow and four children.
   Logar Province
   The Kabul regime warplanes killed 30 civilians and destroyed many houses in retaliation for a Mujahideen attack on the regime security posts in Babus plane on August 2. The Mujahideen killed eight soldiers and destroyed three trucks.
   Herat Province
   Mujahideen killed or wounded more than 60 militiamen, destroyed four trucks and seized 45 guns and three tanks in Karukh and Guzara districts and on the Herat-Islam Qala Highway in a series of attacks which began on July 26 and lasted for three days, Commander Ismail Khan reported. The Mujahideen also lost one man.
   Abdul Qudus, brother of Sayyed Ahmad, a famous militia commander in Herat , was among those killed in the attack.
   Sixteen armed men defected from the regime to the Mujahideen of Jami'at
 on July 26.
    More than 50 regime militias were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen of Jami’at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the enemy positions in Herat Stadium on July 26, Afzali Front reported.
   Badghis Province
    About three hundred armed men defected from the regime to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Aab Kamary District on July 30. Abdul Jalil, the district administrator of Aab Kamary, who had established contact with the Mujahideen decided to come to the resistance side with his men and equipment.
   Jawzjan Province
    Brigadier General Mohammad Sharif has been killed by the Mujahideen, Kabul Radio reported. He was the commander of regime forces in the province. Sharif was an infantry officer and a resident of Jawzjan.
    Ghazni Province
    Ten regime soldiers were killed or wounded and 3 captured when they attacked the Mujahideen positions near the city of Ghazni on July 19. Two Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded.
    In three different attacks against the regime security posts around the city of Ghazni more than 30 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and one truck was set on fire.
    The Mujahideen killed or wounded more than ten enemy soldiers and destroyed one truck when attacking the enemy positions close to the city with heavy weapons on July 23.
    The Mujahideen killed 3 enemy
 soldiers and wounded five when they attacked their post around the city on July 25.
    The Mujahideen killed seven soldiers and wounded six when they attacked the security post on July 26.
                                           Faryab Province
    A regime truck carrying soldiers was destroyed by a landmine planted by the Mujahideen East of Maimana, the provincial capital, on July 29, Hindukush News Agency reported. All the occupant of the trucks were'killed The Mujahideen under Sayyed Allauddin had earlier engaged in severe fighting with regime forces over control of a strategic hill.
                                         Masood supports Commanders Shura
    Commander Masood has decided to discuss the possibility of participation of the Supervisory Council in the coming Commanders Meeting. In the two previous meetings the Supervisory Council did not participate. There is also a strong possibility that Commander Ismail Khan of Herat will send his representatives in the coming Commanders Meeting which will be held somewhere inside Afghanistan. Masood and Ismail Khan's support to the commanders meeting will give it extra importance^
    AFGHANews has learned that Masood will stress the need for participation of all commanders, including those of the Iran-based Wahdat Party, and the need to avoid confrontation with the AIG and other resistance organizations.
                                         Paktia Commander dies in hospital
    Commander Mohammad Ismael, 28, died in hospital on July 31. Ismael was the younger brother of commander Jallaluddin Haqqani, the famous Mujahideen commander in Paktia.
    Ismael was the Mujahideen commander in Sato Kan daw between Khost and Gardiz. He was injured in fighting with a regime convoy going from Gardiz, the provincial capital, to Zurmat. He was brought to Pakistan for treatment
    His funeral service was held on August 1, in the border town of Miran Shah. Maulawi Youniis Khalis and Prof. Sayyaf attended the service.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©
‘Wisdom of*
                                      t sages
Just ruler needs no army
    One of the kings of Persia is said to have been tyrannical and violent, oppressing and robbing his people. The people were finally forced to flee to neighboring courntries beyond his reach.
    As he had fewer subjects to tax, his treasury was soon exh-hausted, and it was not long before powerful enemies rose up against him.
    If you want help in your days of hardship do not forget to be generous in your days of prosperity. If you don't look after your servants they will leave you. Be kind then even strangers will come and be your servant.
    One day they were reading the Shahnameh to the king. When they reached the story of the end of the kingdom of Zuhak, and the reign of Feridoon, the vizier asked the king: "Since Feridoon had neither money, nor land , nor troops, how did he get hold of the kingdom ?"
    The king replied:"As you heard the people joined him and with their help he won the kingdom ." The vizier commented: "Since a kingdom is built on
 the backs of the people, why do you drive so many of them into exile? Do you not want to rule?'
     You had better treat the army well few that is the base of your power.
     The king asked: "How should I gather subjects and troops?" The vizier replied:" The king should be just and available to petitioners and merciful so his subjects enjoy peace under his rule. But you are neither just nor merciful."
     A tyrant cannot be a true ruler as a wolf cannot be a shepherd. The tyrant undermines his own rule.
     The king took offence and had the vizier led off in chains to prison.
     A little after this the king’s cousins revolted against him claiming the king dom as their own.
     Many people who had fled from the tyrany of the king now joined the revolt. The king was defeated and his cousins took power.
     Whoever deals harshly with the poor will find powerful enemies in his day of need. Deal kindly with your subordinates and they will defend you from your enemies. A just ruler has nothing to fear from his subjects.
Peace valued by people in war
A king went to sea with his plied:
Persian slave. The boy had never seen the sea before, nor felt the rolling of the ship. He began to cry and groan and tremble. However much they tried to calm him, it was no use. The king began to get in a bad temper. There was a learned doctor on board. He asked the king: "Would you like me to get this boy to keep quiet?" The king said: " That would be extremely kind of you."
    The doctor ordered the sailors to throw the boy over board; his head went under and he took several gulps of seawater before they grabbed his hair and dragged him back on to the ship.
    The boy crawled into a comer and kept quiet. The king was delighted. " How did you do it?" The doctor re-
        Now that he knows what it is like to be drowned, he is very happy to be on board a ship. So also good days are appreciated only after you have been through the bad days."
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
                                                                                                                        . |jnJjj fluidL jl ^jLu aja
 Don't be a thief and you won't fear the king.
 Meaning: "The righteous are as bold as a lion."
                  LuwtA            I j uJLs
 Look after your property, and you won't accuse your neighbor of being a thief.
 Meaning: If one takes proper care of his possessions, he won't have to suspect his neighbor of stealing.
     j        ijji J*}          tjy
 Lala wields the sword while Abdulah eats the results.
 Meaning: One beats the bush another catches the hare.
 The cat steals the rice and dog comes and eat it. Chinese proverb
 Those who would keep camel should also have high gateways.
 Meaning: A great ship asks deep waters.
                                                                                                         Large fowls will not eat small grains
AFGHANews Vol6, No 16, August 15,1990, page
Editorial
                                   Afghan Mujahideen condemn Iraq's occupation of Kuwait
    Iraq's invasion of Kuwait is an open aggression which violates International law and creates many problems for the Muslim world and for the rest of the international community.
    Afghans are opposed to this aggression because they fully understand the implication of such a move on the people of Kuwait, region and world as a whole.
    There are similarities between the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 and the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. Afghanistan and Kuwait were attacked by their powerful neighbors. In both cases the invading powers claimed that they were invited by the governments which, did not exist at the time of the invasion. The Soviet Union and Iraq installed their puppet regimes after the occupation to give the invasion a legal color.
    International reaction in the case of Afghanistan was not as strong as in the case of Kuwait. The UN economic sanctions against Iraq and the formation of a multi-national force to prevent it from invading Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States could be contrasted with the steps taken against the Soviet Union because of its invasion of Afghanistan. Soviet Union action was condemned by the UN General Assembly and OIC but that country was never named in any of the resolutions passed by the international bodies.
    The sanctions imposed on the Soviet Union was limited by grain embargo by the Carter administration which was lifted by Reagan and partial boycott of Moscow Olympic games.
    Saddam Husain might have been surprised by die strong international reactions against his invasion of Kuwait When he invaded Iran ten years ago, he was not only not condemned but was helped in militarily and economically to win the war against Iran.
    Saddam enjoyed the support of his Arab brothers, the West and the communist block in the war he started against the Islamic Republic. As a result of the generous support he receive, he emerged as the strongest military power in the Middle-East
    Ironically Kuwait provided tremendous amount of economic support to Saddam during the Gulf War. Saddam was not grateful to the people who supported him. He has shown that he does not hesitate to use every means to achieve his aim in domestic and international dealings.
    Saddam runs Iraq with an iron fist He does not tolerate criticism or political dissention. He is the only leader in the world which has used chemical weapons against his own people. The only person who has a similarity with Saddam is the ruler of Kabul, Najibullah.
    The behavior of some Arab countries towards the invasion of an Arab country is deplorable. Some so-called radical Arab countries and the PLO failed to condemn the invasion. This eliminated the chance of any solution of the crises by Arab themselves. Saudi Government was forced to ask for a multi-national force to be stationed in that country, a defensive measure against the immanent Iraqi threat '
    The occupation of Kuwait ended the economic assistance that country provided to a lot of developing countries in Asia and Africa. It drew the attention away from the Palestinian cause and created a rift in the rank of Arabs. The Palestinian movement will suffer because of its failure to condemn Iraq invasion of an Islamic and Arab country which had been giving support to if. This is not the first time that Arafat has taken such an attitude. He did not condemn the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and established close relations with the regime of Najibullah which was imposed by the Soviet Army.
                                               Turn to page 7
     "Scars of War" is the title of a documentary about the outcome of ten years of war in Afghanistan. This two hour film. The Song of War (Part One) and The Time for Weeping (Party Two), has just come out on the screens. It’s the fruit of one year's efforts by two French journalists, Frederic Laffont and Christophe de Ponfilly. The first team led by Laffont went to Moscow, Minsk, Tashkent and Kabul. The second team headed by de Ponfilly went to the liberated zones in Afghanistan and to Peshawar, Pakistan.
     This documentary tells the story of die men involved on both sides of the conflict The Afghans and die Soviets talk to the reporters about their personal experiences in the war. For the Soviet citizens it was a needless war but for Afghans a holy war in defense of their country. Afghans lost more than one million people in die war. The Soviet losts at least 15,000 soldiers
     The film encourages the viewer not to satify himself (herself) with a simple denunciation of die nonsense war waged by die Soviets, but to think deeper about its effect on the poeple involved. It invites us to see, hear and discover die strange transformations of people connected with the war. With such a theme one can discern how the Afghan and Soviet societies will be transformed.
     The documentary is filmed by capable cameramen using professional equipment Beyond the current event, the "Scars of War" constitutes a chapter of Afghan his tory. The history of Afghans has seen many wars but there is no record of the events of the invasions by Alexander the Great 330-326 B.C; Gengis Khan in 1221-1222 and the British in 1838-1842, 1878-1880 and 1919.
     The documentary has already been broacasted on Seventh Channel of French TV in June. It will be shown in August by Switzerland TV. and by third channel of the Fench TV in October.
   ■ " Scars of War " will also be the name of a book published by Robert Laffont in October.
     This picture has been produced in French language but has been translated into English, Persian and Russian. It will be translated into Pashtoo and Arabic soon.
     The documentary is presented by INTERSCOOP,die first press agency in Europe established to make documentary films about Afghansitan during the war. It produced a "A Valley against an Empire in 1984, "So far away from Moscow" in 1986 and "Massoud, Portrait of an Afghan Leader" in 1987.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page 0
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Abdullah Choopan
     Abdullah Choopan, Jami'at commander in Pushtun Koot District, Faryab Province, leads more than 600 armed Mujahideen and controls major parts of Pushtun Koot. He is known to be a good fighter and the people admire him for his piety, fair treatment of the population and simple way of life.
     Choopan has displayed CQurage and resilience on many occasions. In 1983, the communist forces captured his base and his area forcing him to become an internal refugee. After a month, he was able to regroup his scattered forces, retake his territory and even emerge stronger than before.
     In one occasion ait the beginning of the war, he saved the life of 300 Mujahideen. The Mujahideen base near Maimana was attacked by the enemy forces. The enemy troops were supported by 20 jets and helicopters succeeded which allowed them to besiege the base, defended by 300 Mujahideen.
     A strategic peak overlooking the base was controlled by Choopan. Despite the enemy's repeated ground and aerial attacks, he did not abandon his position and continued to right back. With the help of the heavy machine-gun fire he slowed down the enemy advance and opened a corridor through which the Mujahideen retreated.
     Because of his education, he has built a relatively good organization in his area. His men are disciplined and obey him strictly. He is assisted in his demanding job by Lieutenant Nik
 Mohammad, a graduate of Abu Muslim Madrasa, in Maimana. Nik Mohammad has completed Jami'at Military Academy.
     Choopan spends the Mujahideen money properly and avoids levying un-Islamic taxes on local people. This policy of his has made life easier for the people under his control, adding to his reputation. It is said once his father came to him asking for some barley from the Mujahideen stock for his donkey. Choopan refused and politely advised him to sell his donkey.
     Choopan has paid attention to the education of children. He has established a Madrasa which has six classes.
     He began his Jehad after the communist coup. He became affiliated to the Islamic Movement when he was a student at the Abu Muslim Madrasa (a religious college run by the former government) in Maimana. He graduated from the 14 class of the Madrasa before beginning his armed struggle. First he was an ordinary Mujahid, but later became a commander. As time passed, he proved to be a good leader. He expanded his territory and increased the number of his men.
     Choopan likes reading and never misses listening to the news on the radio. He enjoys good health despite being wounded lightly twice.
     Choopan was bom 29 years ago in an Ozbak family in Dahan Dara village, Pushtun Koot District His father, Tengri Qull, was a farmer. He is married and has two children.
Cmdr. Arbab Abdul Hafiz
     Arbab Abdul Hafiz is Jami'at commander in Almar sub-District who leads more than 1,000 armed Mujahideen. He was an influential person in his area before the war. He has been wounded several times.
     His Mujahideen have fought in Almar, Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab and other district alongside other Mujahideen groups. Recently he has shown great interest in working with other Mujahideen. He is sympathetic to the Suoervisory Council headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
     Arbab Hafiz can be described as a traditional leader who rules the people by old ways. In the areas he controls, traditional mosque and modem schools are opened for the children.
     Arbab Hafiz tries to solve local issue by simple means. Last year he waged war against sunnpest which de-
 stroy wheat crops.
        Sunnpest are fought normally through periodical spray. But Arbab had no medicine or equipment to fight the tiny dangerous insects. He asked the people to collect the eggs of the sunnpest from the mountains and deserts and sell it to him to be destroyed. He bought seven kilograms of sunnpest for 4,000 Afghanis, four times the price of wheat. He bought 11. 8 tons of sunnpest eggs and destroyed them. Local people say though the operation did not eliminate the danger, but it had a positive effect on farm products.
      Arbab Hafiz was bom in 1949 in an Ozbak wealthy family. His father, Abdul Wahid was an influential person in Almar. He is married and has foyr children.
 government               Bhutto
   10                           been
 sfllo Jg§§| the:caii||||ij|]Prin^
 Pakii^an soppam He struggle of the Afghans to secure their right of self
                                                                                                       Prof. Mujaddidi left Peshawar on i provinces to meet the
 Mujahideen.
                                                                                                                  The President of Pakistan dis*

 |' J||^;.Sovllipmort: has decreased] die Kabul regmioJ [Western sources reported. Moscow] barrels of oif^eachl day to the regime. The Kabul regime] iw^maimf; runs on the imported] fuel frqm ilie Soviet Union ami ariy ■: irt'; fuel supply to] Kabul w0! affect its military] [acdytries.                    pf|ij
   ' Soviet Union provides Kabul with about one millioft HI of food stuflfe oath year, Tfoi Soviet Union buys 3 J million tons of food from outside for its own domestic needs. Experts believe the eco-j noroic burden of the Soviet involve! I mem in Al^an*^^
 [factor in Soviet desire to find a poliM
 ty flown to the Soviet Union for
 por^,31^f'^^wn will stayonel month                     |
 I Jsbndi^ of S|ghan t^fldren to] j fte?||&vi^        dtffing the]
 Soviet occupation of      tan.B
 India and Ba K^bpjat the
 parliament. While the visit of the]
 pi|H                       be-|
 cause of close ties between Delh^nd | Kabul, it is not dear H|
                                           M
                                          m
                                          AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©
 Text of the speech delivered by Prof. Rahbani in OIG Foreign Ministers conference in Cairo
     In the name of God.
     I am pleased to express my deep appreciation and thanks on behalf of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan to the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIQ for granting the Afghanistan seat to the Mujahideen in its session of March 1989 in Riyadh. Mujahideen leaders request Your Excellencies to take practical measures to further strengthen that just decision.
     I would like to express my gratitude to the government of Egypt for hosting this historic conference and for the hospitality it has extended to the AIG delegation.
     Dear brothers! The current problems of our country began when the communists took power in Afghanistan in April 1978. They killed President Daud together with his family, even though he had nurtured the communists during his prime ministership and had given them a share in,power after his 1973 coup. They also mudered thousands of innocent people. Russians and their satellite states in Eastern Europe supported the communist regime.
     The Muslim nation of Afghanistan, however, proclaimed a general uprising from the very beginning of the 1978 coup. The determined resistance of our courageous nation as well as the deep internal divisions among the communist leaders brought the regime to the verge of total collapse.
     The Russians were eye-witnesses to the decay of their puppet regime. Hoping to save it, they invaded Afghanistan . More than 115,000 Red Army troops poured into our country in the days following the 27th December 1979 .
     The invading troops made a bloodbath in our country. Our national dignity, prestige and Islamic identity were attacked, our national treasures and natural reources were looted and our nation was subjected to genocide.
     More than one and a half million people were martyred. About half a million persons were disabled. More than 600,000 innocent children became orphans. About 700,000 women became widows. More than five million ppeple became refugees in neighbouring countries.
     More than 100,000 educated people, youths, technorats and scholars became refugees in western countries. More than 80 percent' of the country was ruined or destroyed.
     According to UN estimates, about 30 million mines were planted in Afghanistan . These are taking a heavy toll on the lives of our women, children and young men, and will continue to do so for many years to come. At the moment of defeat and withdrawal of the Red Army, Gorbachev had remarked that his mines would fight the Afghans for years.
     Honourable Ministers of OIC! ^
     Item number 2, paragraph number 6, of the OIC charter states that OIC has; the duty to support the just struggles of all Muslim people for national independence ; ancl human rights. There OIC convened an ;emergency meeting at the request of some
 of its members in the Spring of 1980, right after the Russian invasion. That historic session strongly condemned the Russian invasion as being , against all international laws and norms. It also suspended Afghanistan's membership of the Conference. Furthermore, it requested all the member states not to recognise the regime set up by the occupying forces, to stop all aid to the regime, to give shelter to the refugees, and to extend all necessary assistance to the Afghan people who had raised the banner of revolt and resistance against the invading forces.
      The resolution of May 22, 1980 when 39 members met in Islamabad called on the Russians to leave Afghanistan immediately and unconditionally. Thus, in various sessions of the OIC, our just cause and our resistance were fully supported.
      Finally, in the historic Riyadh session, the Afghanistan seat was given to the Mujahideen and four Muslim countries recognized the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan. The Afghan people were hoping that other Muslim countries would also follow suit. Unfortunately this did not happen.
      Respected brothers! The strong faith, the determination, the fortitude and die steadfastness of your heroic Afghan brothers and the continued support of the Muslim countries and of the international community finally resulted in the defeat and withdrawal of the Red Army from Afghanistan. Russians also admitted that their agression was an inhuman act breaching international norms and laws. This confession was made in October 1989 by Foreign Minster Edvard Shevardnadze in the Supreme Soviet of the USSR.
      Unfortuntely, his were empty words. Though Red Army troops left Afghanistan, yet the Russian advisers who design and implement war plans stayed. Their numbers even increased. The air lift which was started between Moscow and Kabul in the first days of the invasion, was re-started, right after completion of the troop withdrawal. More , sophisticated and deadly weapons, such as Scud and Oregan-which were not used in Afghanistan even when the Russians were there-were brought in in large numbers. This process still continues. Statistics of war casualties, gathered by independent observers, show that killing and destruction have increased in recent months. Thus, Russian military aggression has not ended. The communist Russian agents, who are largely responsible for the tragedy, did not leave with die Red Army. They still receive enormous amounts of military and financial aid from the Soviet Union. The Afghan tragedy continues despite ■ the formal withrawal of Russian troops.
      The propaganda by the international media against our nation since the Red Army withdrew has added insult to injury. Unfortunately, die mass media in some Muslim countries have also been influenced by the Western media and repeat what they say. They call the Mujahideen extremists and war mongers. They call our struggle for liberation, independence, territorial integrri-ty and national sovereignty a civil war.
      The fact is that we want peace and se-‘curity more than anyone else. We have been forced, however, to defend ourselves. Has the rain of Scud and other Rusian rockets on our villages and towns ended? Has the air lift between Moscow and Kabul, which transports in enormous .quantities of destructives weapons, been cut off? Has the Russian interference in our domestic affairs ended? .Have the bloodbaths which were
 filled by the Russian military invasion drained out?
      It is the unaninous decision of our nation not to allow the puppet regime and the professional murderers of the communist PDPA to play a role in determining our future destiny. They are criminals and traitors who must face trial by the nation. Changing the name of the party is insignificant and futile. Whatever mask they put on they are the same war criminals and cannot escape accountability to the nation.
      While deeply appreciating the unfailing support of die OIC, the Afghan delegation would like to propose the following:
      •The Russians should be condemned once again for their crimes against our nation during their military occupation. Their continued interfeence and aggression should also be strognly condemned. The Proclamation of perestroika in Russia does not absolve the Russians from their past war crimes or continued interference in Afghanistan.
      •Russian leaders should be asked to stop their aid to the war mongering regime in Kabul.
      •Najib's regime should be declared illegal and illegitimate.
      • The Mujahideen government (AIG) should be recognized In principle.
      •Mujahideen should be helped to overthrow the puppet regime as soon as possible and restore peace and seucity to their country.
      “Assistance to the refugees should continue as before so that their lives are not endangered.
      •The program for repatriation of refugees is premature and should be stopped. Conditions are not suitable for refugees to return to their homland. The factors which caused migration at the beginning are still there. Additional factors such as mines, hunger, and diseases also severely threaten the lives of our people.
      •Mujahideen should be given the opportunity to form their new government through a shura of "Ahl-i Hal wa Aqd"-which is traditionally called "Loya Jirga"-so that doubts about the representative nature of their government be removed.
      •The Afghan nation should be suport-ed to restore its Islamic identity, national unity, independence and territorial integrity.
      •The Jihad of our heroic naion deserves commendation.
      •All the countries and relief organizations should be requested to share the burden of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran.
      •OIC in co-operation with the Islamic Development Bank should cooperate in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. A joint commission needs to be formed.
      •The Afghanistan seat at the Islamic Development Bank shouldbe given to the Mujahideen.
      •The Soviet Union shoud be reqested to pay war reparations and to unwrite the cost of the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
      •A permanent commission be formed to help the Afghan people to achieve com plete liberation and to reconstruct Afghanistan.
      Dear brothers! This conference is held at a decisive moment of history. At present, our world is witnessing major historic . changes and which no one expected before. The collapse of Communism and the communist regimes in Eastern Europe, the removal of tile Berlin Wall, the unification of the two Germanies, the end of the cold war are all important in our time. These changes herald hope and good news to others. For the Muslims, however, they bring the mes-
 sage of dangerous challenges. Muslim nations, deeply wounded by the cruelty of colonialism, have still not healed and now face new threats.
      The first result of close relations between the two superpowers is the migration of large numbers of Soviet Jews to occupied Palestine. This not only brings tragedy to the Palestinians, but also raises the threat of a new war in the region.
      The good news of the end of cold war between East and West have provoked comments by some Western politicians and thinkers that the danger of communism is replaced by the danger of Islam which must be crushed.
      The question is what danger to the West is presented by indigent Muslims who are facing severe economic difficulties and lack the means of offensive wars?
      The anti-Isamic voices which hark back to the Crusades must be condemned resolutely.
      Today Muslim nations look to OIC with hope to solve their political and economic problems.
      Brothers! Although the Afghan nation still suffers from the tragedy caused by the Russian aggression, it is not unmindful of the problems and pains of its fellow Muslim nations.
      With feelings of Islamic solidarity, we strongly support the Jehad of the heroic nation of Palestine for the liberation of the occupied territories, for the return of Palestinian refugees to their homeland and the establishment of a Palestinian state.
      We strongly condemn the migration of Soviet Jews to the occupied territories and their resettlement there. We consider this a threat to peace and security in the region and in the world.
      We support the freedom-loving people of Kashmir who have risen up for their liberty and legal rights. We strongly condemn the savage massacre of Kashmiris by Indian troops. We demand implementation of the UN resolutions so that the people of Kashmir achieve their right of. self determination.
      We support the Mujahideen of Eritrea, the Philippines and other countries who are struggling to gain freedom and self determination.
      Dear Brothers! The Afghan people have risen up to defend their liberty, right of self-determination, religious beliefs and also_ to establish an Islamic Govememnt in accordance with their aspirations. They wish more than anyone else to restore peace and security in their country. We welcome and support any just political solution which guarantees the honor, dignity and sacked objectives of our nation.
      The Islamic Government which the Afghan Mujahideen hope to establish will be a staunch supporter of international peace and Security. We will not allow ourselves to be dragged into vairous political and militay pacts after the down-fall of the present regime. We are in favor of friendly relations with all the counries.
      We welcome good neighborly relations and mutural cooperation with the Russians provided they stop interfering in oUr domestic affairs.
      We expressing our apprciation and gratitude to all the Muslim countries who supported our nation morally and materially during its liberation struggle. We call upon diem to continue their support until our complete liberation and to help us in the reconstruction of our. country. " ...    . . -X
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 16, August 15, 1990, page Q
     Dear Sir,
     Thank you very much for AFGHANews March, April and May issues. The copies have been distributed to sister Muslim organizations in Japan. If we receive more copies, we will distribute them to other organizations.
     Abdul Munir Watanabe Chairman Islamic Center Tokyo-Japan
     Dear sir.
     My apologies for having taken so long to thank you for sending a copy of the AFGHANews (15 April). I found it interesting, particularly the article "Who is Who in the Mujahideen". Would you please continue to send the paper to me?
     Peter Wilkins Campbell
    Dear sir.
    The article ''Mujahideen final winners of war in Afghanistan" published in July 1, 1990 issue of AFGHANews is convincing.
    Mohamed Raffick
    Port-Louis
    Mauritius
    Dear sir,
    I am very grateful for AFGHANews you sent to me. I find interesting information in your paper.
    Robert Jansson
    Abo- Finland
    Dear sir,
    I read AFGHANews with keen interest. I like to receive it regularly to get information about my Mujahideen brothers.
    Ahmad T.S. Fagge
    Kano-Nigeria
     Australia
     Dear sir.
     You sent a copy of the history of the Islamic movement in Afghanistan written by Dr. Tawana and published in AFGHANews. This article will help a lot. I am attempting to get beneath the factionalism which unfortunately mars the Jehad in Afghanistan.
     I would like to take this opportunity to express my opinion concerning the article on page seven of the June 1, 1990 issue _ of AFGHANews, "Coordinated warfare should be top aim of commanders' moot”. I think this move is long overdue, and I applaud the effort. I agree totally with Mohammad Es'haq views, and believe that only the development of such a council will make victory possible. .
     Daryl Champion
     Cheltenham                    ^
     Australia
     Dear sir,
     AFGHANews is an interestihg publication. It keeps the foreigners, as well as Afghan refugees informed about the situation in Afghanistan. Thank .you for sending, the paper regularly-to nje.                   v
     Khalil Ahmad Najmyar
     Virginia, USA ......
     The information provided by AFGHANews is needed by the Muslims in the United States. Please continue to send your paper to me.
     Mohammad Sirajullahi Enfield, CT U.S.A
                                        Editorial
                                                                       - From Page 4
       The invasion of Kuwait has increased the chances of military confrontation in the Gulf which will cause a lot of human suffering for the people in the region.
       The Mujahideen have asked for the: immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and the restoration of the legitimate government of Kuwait Prof. Rabbani took a strong stand against the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in the OIC meeting in Cairo.
       The passage of time should not soften the position of the international community on the issue and they should not accept half way solutions. Any half way solution complicates the problem and gives a chance to the aggressor to bdie-fit from the fruit of their invasion. Any attempt by Israel to exploit the situation1 : to consolidate, its illegal control over die . occupied territories will strengthen die position of Saddam in the crisis. He has started to use the Palestinian card, to coyer up its aggression against Kuwait.
 x ...^ ■ •' •              .:....... v
 AFGHANews Vol6, No 16, August 15,1990, page ©
            Mujahideen to reject any deal involving Kabul regime
Afohaniea moves
Habibur Rahman
    Talks between the Foreign] Ministers of the Soviet Union and the United States in Irkutsk, Siberia, did not result in any agreement on the Afghan settlement, though the two sides reported progress.
    The joint communique issued at the end of the talks said the two sides reaffirmed their wish to promote an early Afghan settlement through bee and fair elections.
    The communique said the two sides recognized the need of a transition period and formation of a coordination representative body that would insure the Organization and preparation
 of political settlement and the present formula under consideration is close to the offers of the Kabul regime to the Mujahideen. Therefore, there will not be any hesitation on the part Of the regime to accept the election formula.
     The United States will face a prob-lem in selling the agreement reached between the two superpowers to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen are not totally dependent on the US support and there is no coordination between the Mujahideen and the US on present talks for the settlement of the issue. The US might have coordinated its. efforts with Saudi Arabia and Pakistan, but the Mujahideen are usually informed after the decisions are made.
 of elections and the resolution of some other questions related to the transition period. Forces could be placed at the disposal of this body to ensure public order, the statement said.
     The statement also pointed out the need for consultation with different sides in the Afghan conflict to pave the ground for elections.
     This means that the two sides have agreed on holding elections in which the two sides iti the conflict-the Mujahideen and the regime-will take part. They are discussing the foimation of a representative election commission to supervise the election. The role of the UN and OIC in the process is also under consideration.
     There is no agreement yet about the role of N^jib and his government in the transition period. The Soviet Union and the UN have proposed that Najib and the Kabul regime should iemain in (tower during the transition period; but soihe of the pbw^rs of Najib will be transfeited to the election commission. The idea is to give control of the army, secret police and police (Sarandoy) of the regime to the election commission. In the coming Weeks Soviet and US experts will discuss details of the transition period in Washington.
     Once they have agreed on aformu-la, they have to sell the idia. tb thO regime and the Mujahidben, the two sides directly involved in the conflict.
     When the negotiations were under way, Najib went to Moscow. It is believed. that he will discuss the issue concerning the political settlement of Afghanistan with the Soviet leaders. Any agreement reached by the Soviets and the US wifi.be accepted by the regime because o!f tiie total dependence on the Soviet military and economic aid. There is bfose coordination be^ tween Moseovfr ahd fed)Ul bh the iissue
     One can foresee that the^eleetion formula by which the regime will remain in power will be rejected by-the majority of the Mujahideen.
     All groups in the resistance, AIG, Wahdat Party and parties outside the two grouping are strongly opposed to the participation Of the Kabul regime in any political process. The formula that envisages limited power to Najib during transition phase is totally unacceptable to them.
     The presence of Najibullah under any name will not allow fair and free elections to be held in the areas controlled by the regime. Agreements on the papers Will not change the nature of the regime army, WAD and police. They cannot remain neutral because the ruling party has total control on them.
     The shift in American policy tp-wards the Afghan issue is interesting/ The idea of holding elections based on the Nicaraguan experience Was first proposed by the Soviet delegation in Stockholm. The American side rejected the idea saying that the Situation in the two countries was different. The American side argued that the Managua regime Was not brought to poWer by an outside power as the Kabul regime was and Ortega had not killed one million of his people aS Najib had done. One seeS that noW the US is Coming close to the idea of accepting the foie Of Najib during elections.
     The US interest in finding a solution to the Afghan issue is understandable. Ten years Of in volvement is a relatively long tiirie , for impatient Americans. But what is not understand-; able is the Claim of tiie US officiate who say that the Mujahideen and :US objectives aib the same; whereas the US adCept Najib'stole duringthetran-sitional period^ the Mujahideen are strohgly:o(posed to it
     Due to improved circumstances AFGHANICA ( the Afghanistan Studies Newsletter) has been transferred from Oxford, U.K, to Krakow m Poland.
     Polish scholars are preparing for an international conference on the theme 'Culture of Afghanistan: Problems of Continuity and Future Perspectives' to be held from April 4-6 1991 in Krakow, Poland. The organizers say that in spite of diminishing interest, Afghanistan still deserves the careful attention of international academic circles. Poland itself was for almost 45 years under a similar regime and can provide a valuable platform for understanding the cultural process introduced in Afghanistan by the communist coup of 1978.
     The conference is - sponsored by the Institute of Oriental Philofcgyf .Krakow-University), Polish Ethnological Society and AFGHANICA^
     While the sympathies of the Polish; government were with the. communist regime in Kabul, the struggle of the Mujahideen had many admirers among die Polish people affiliated with the Solidarity movement struggling for democracy.
     There were close contacts between some groups of die resistance and solidarity activists in exile. Several Polish living in exile visited the war fronts to express their solidarity with die Afghan Mujahideen. Two Polish journalists, Andy Skrzypkowiak and Radek Sikorski, helped the cause by covering die war. The first filmed many' attacks and latter wrote many articles, fook pictures and wrote a book about Herat called 'Dust of the Saints'. Andy was killed in Afghanistan during one of his trips.
     Ironically, die Polish people ^ho watched with admiration the decade-knag armed struggle of the Afghan people achieved their own victory before the Afghans.
     AFGHANICA address:
    AFGHANICA >
    bistitute of Oriental Philology -Jagellonian Univesity Al.Mickiewicza 9/11 Krakow - Poland.
                                               lnelp ttspubmn
                                           (Please send your donations to tfte Jottounng account number:
       Account 9{p. 735-37 tfaBiS &anJ<iLt({. tfeM&JBdfc, (Pesfiazoar y tPa6$stan
J