        ' »
AFGHAN NEWS
         1986
                            JAMIAT ISLRMI AFGHANISTAN
                                  POLITICAL OFFICE,
                          G.P.O. BOH 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. TEL. (0521) 41301
 AFGHAN
 •NEWS
-5 ^ .... 3-1-1986
             Jamfat i-fstaml Afghanistan Post Box No 264, GPO Peaba*ar-Pakistan
                                     F30L AFGHAHS _TO INDIANS
      We Afghans are engaged in a war which has been imposed, on us, We did not. like the docaawnist coup of 1978 because it intxo<&iced an alien way of life to us. It posed a threat to our religion, culture and independence, First -we resisted peacefully but the Cosarunist used force and •we we re compelled to take arms and fight back. These were internal pro-alems like those in your country.
      In 1979 the -led Army entered Afghanistan. Cur war for liberation Started. We expected all the peace-loving people of the world to support us because all the accepted international laws concerning mutvft* 1
 jSk                          #
  _ respect, non-iatorfor^nce in the arfaxrs of other countries and the jasftfc '■ of the people to determine their type of government were violated by a super power (the so-called natural allies of the.third world, countries).
      Since we have common historic relations with India, and Seikhs and Hindus minorities were the previliged business class in Afghanistan,
   We expected the Indian people and government (without a moment of hes-. itation) to have rejected the invasion and supported the people of Afghanistan.^ To India who had, been outspoken against American involvement in •Vietnam, it was a testing ground to show their independent policy and.their true non-aligned status.
     i But. we' are sorry that the position the Indian government took is next what the people of Afghanistan expected. They even abstained to vote in favour of those resolutions which asked for the withdrawal of foriegn troops from Afghanistan, Worse than what we have information that Ind-ian diplomats in Babul and even their military advisors are becoming more involved in the war against the people of Afghanistan. Delhi has become the spring board of Khad agents to the West and the centre of KGB disinformation. I low another conspiracy is talcing shape and that is sending so-called Indian muslin delegation to Kabul to show that the puppet regime is respecting Islamic values. Soviet and puppet regime can not res-' pact- Islam but they respect the power of the Kujahideen guns. They do not respect our mosques not your mosques and tempels.
    We are not inviting Indians to declare.war against the Soviets.
 What we want them to do is to show their unhappiness about the invasion of an independent country and the suffering of millions of its innocent people. You can be a friend of some one , but, at the same time tell him about what he is doing wrong.
    The present Indian government policy towards Afghanistan is the following of the Soviet's path and it is a great shame if the largest democracy in the world is following the biggest dictatorship of the world.
    Mazar Sharif is famous for its organized and effective resistance against the Soviet invaders. This city which is very close to the Soviet border has been the scene of Mujahideen activities against the Soviets and their puppets.
    An eyewitness who has just returned from the area recently described the situation good. Mujahideen parties reached an agreement on escalating the war against the Soviets and their puppets. Since then the level of activities in the form of raids, ambushes and assassination of the enemy agents hs.s increased.
    In order to control the city better, the Soviets built 30 wide streets in the eastern part of Mazar and are building security posts along these streets-, A lot of houses were demolished and Mujahideen lost some of their hideouts.
    Mujahideen of Mazar use the time-bomb effectively. For example, two buses which were carrying Afghan pilots from the city to the airport were blown up last summer and 23 pilots were killed.
    The puppet regime built houses in a relatively secure part of the city to accommodate communist officials. They called this new section Xarta-Solh, After Mujahideen intensified their attack against this area, they started to let ordinary people settle there. This was done t<3 dissuade Mujahideen from attacking the area.
    As a result of the martyrdom of a Mujahideen urban Commander which happened'last summer, the level of fighting inside the city had gone down considerably, but now his Mujahideen have returned back and the level of fighting has risen again. The martyred Commander was Mohammad Seddique belonging to Jarciat Islami of Afghanistan.
    The Soviets are trying to secure Mazar by building a big road all round Mazar city and by putting security posts all along the road. They call this :,green belt1' . Mujahideen are fighting to stop it from being built.
    The witness said that the Soviets have extended a power transmission line from t-he Soviet Union to Mazar. It seams that the Soviets are afraid of 107mm ground-to-ground rockets and have started to build bunkers to protect themselves. Radio Balkh which is controlled by the puppet regime is broadcasting in local languages. Mujahideen do not have any means to fight the enemy propaganda.
                            N E W S
 26-12-19S5
 After severe clashes the enemy retreated from Daravvalley and the garrison of deraman was evacuated. Dara is a side valley of Fanjshir. 25^12-S5
 The enemy launched a winter offensive against iluj ahideen in Shemali. Mujahideen in Charikar, Jabulsaraj, Kohistan and Xapisa have resisted well and the enemy has suffered casualties. I To details have been given yet.
 Bombardment of Salang from air and ground continues during both night and day. One Jet was shot down in Nowoch village of Salang. The political Commissar of regiment 32 has been killed in recent fighting in the Panjshir.
 2-12-35
 Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kohistan attacked a security outpost of Gul-bahar Textile Factory. A big number of the enemy troops were killed or wounded. Two AK-47 guns were captured. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation.
 29-ll~85_
 Kujahideen of Jami'at Islarai ambushed an enemy convoy on Salang highway between Jabalsarj-Charikar section.
 Three APCs and 4 trucks were destroyed. Ten Soviet soldiers were killed and seven others were wounded and the road was blocked for one hour.
 3r12-85
 Mujahideen attaclced Charikar city with heavy weapons, 12 Communists •were killed end 20 others were wounded. All the puppet regime's offices in the city remained closed on that day.
                       /UjOTIjERuSOVIET_C^PyURED
                                 *
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in bazar captured a Soviet soldier in Marmui area in the first week of November. Ho more details have been given yet..
 TJayed Ahmad Jaxlanx, the leader of national Islamic Front of Afghanistan was chosen as the spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan for 3 months, from January 1st 1935.
 He will lead the Alliance delegation to the Islamic countries (foriegn ministers conference) which is going to be held in Morocco,
 We wish him every success in his new job.
 Bagram is the biggest Soviet airbase in Afghanistan. Bagram in the past has been attaclced* from outside by I.uj ahideen or from inside by musiim officers.
4
 In the month of Gar at an (Jun-July) of 1985, captain Dost Mohammad tried to set a time-bomb in a cinema hall inside the base where the Soviet officers were supposed to watch a film. He was betrayed by a soldier who was helping him do the job.
 The Soviets tortured him to expose his friends. He admitted involvement in the bombing and said that he had carried out this this type ’of operation in the past. He did not reveal any of his friends and said that he had direct connections with Mujahideen fronts outside the base, no body from among the officers was helping him.
 The brave officer told the Soviets that he is not sorry for his past if he is freed he would continue to do these types of things.
 Me was executed in daylight in front of the whole Soviet-puppet ait force personnel in the base. Peace be upon him. Captain Dost Mohammad vie.s from Kohistan of Hapisa province send affiliated with Jamiat Islami of Afghanistan.
Deport from Ghoor and Sadghis provinces, located, in the North-West of Afghanistan,'say that there are signs of famine in these areas. Mujahideen leaders are worried about the food situation in these areas.
The famine in the area is the result of Soviet scorched-earth policy of burning harvests, destroying irrigation channels and killing cattles. Lack of enough rain fall is also contributing to the worsening of the situation.
The resistane in these two provinces have been very active in the past seven years and there is good coopertion ■ among Lujcjsidaan of the area.


\FGHAN
HEWS
VOL.U; A/o. 2
 H — 1-
 Jaoiiui i fslami Afghanistan Post Box No. 264, G f*0 P<* h**?r*—Pakistan
                       BASELESS OPTIMISM        • •
                                 t
    After the summit talks between the super powers and the proximity talks in Geneva one could see Increased optimism among the media about a political settlement for the Afghan issue. .
    This optimism was based on the way that the Soviets expressed their view about Afghanistan in the summit talks and the change of tone in the Soviet official media. LittllT attention was paid to what they were saying. Soviet leaders who know the desire of the world for peace started to play on this noble wish, to minimize political pressure on them. The Soviets were soft towards America and did not accuse her of having hundreds of training bases along the borders of Afghanistan. Ho softness was shown towards the Afghan people .                 •
    On the military side war is continuing on an even higher level than in previous years. ;
    The Soviets insistence on direct talks between the puppet regime and Pakistan is part of their plan to get recognition of the puppet regime and give nothing in return.
    The offer of diroct talks is an attempt'to put pressure on the Pakistan government to change its position. It is a political offensive to relieve the Soviets from the pressure of defeat in the U.N and the consequences of the U.N Human Rights commission's report on violation of Hunan Rights in Afghanistan.
     Therefore the change is superficial and is part of a political game not a real attempt to solve the problem,
                        t
                        - K B y s
                        FAHYAB PROVINCE |9;IZ:1§85                                              .
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a militia post in Maimana and captured 2k militias with their weapons. The commander of the militia post was killed. Xn another operation which took place on Jan.5th Mujahideen, wiped out an enemy, post and captured 12 guns.
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the puppet regime's post in Qa4#«r pis tr Act, 35 people were captured with 50 guns. Mujahideen suffered no casualties and the casualties of the other side were not mentioned in the report.                                         !
 According to Mujahideen sources a militia commander, oalled, Jora pad been killed by Mujahideen in Faryab, Some weeks ago the puppet pegiBie reported that Jora has joined the regime force along with his followers,                      '
                        PARWAN PROVINCE
    Because of the failure of the previous offensive against Che-mali which was launched on Bee. 25th. to save faoe, the enemy launched a new offensive against Chemali on January 3rd,
    Mujahfdeen of Jamiat fought very woll and about 150 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. The enemy bombed the area heavily and yithout discrimination as a result of which 100 civilians including women and children were killed and a large number of houses were destroyed.
                             SALANG
 2-1-86 m mm wm m» M
    Mujahideen were able to put time-bombs in enemy logistic convoys in Haft Tanoor of Salang. These bombs exploded during the night as a result of which 20 tanks and 2 DJJO artillery pieoes were destroyed. Fourty Soviet soldiers were killed.
 •» Aerial bombardments around Salang are very intense and on Jan--uary 3rd, 3 Mujahids were martyred and two were wounded* There are also civilians casualties,
                          KABUL PROVINCE
 2.2-12-85
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy base in Sorabi District with ground to ground rockets which caused losses in life and property on the enemy side.
                        JAWZJAW - PROVINCE
 2A-11-8§
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Aqcha District sat a time-bomb in the pipe-line which carries gas from Afghanistan to the Soviet Union.
 It caused intense damage and for three days the flow of gas din the pipe-line was stopped.

BAGHLAN PROVINCE
    1-12-85
       Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a militia post in Shashan, a. side Valley of Andarab District, After 7 hours of fighting 90 militias including their commander were captured.
       Mujahideen captured the following weapons:
       1- One -82rara mortar with 60 rounds,
       2- Thirty-six AK-47 guns,
       3- Fifty-four Carabine guns,.
      . 4- One R-105 communication set.
       Five tanks were set on fire, k. militias were killed and five , others injured. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation, • v Some clothes and food stuff, were also captured,
                              AFGHA^^CAUSE^SABOTAGED^XN^I.O.C
                                        ■#
        The Islamic Organization Conference is a folium in whieh the problems of the muslim world are being dissussed.
        Since the begining of the Soviet invasion, this organization has passed resolutions in support of the cause of the people of Afghanistan.                       •
        The problem with I,0,C is that a few Arab nnuntries, like Lybia, Syria, South Tamen and the PLO usually try to show that v, support for the cause of Afghanistan undermines the oause of Palestine «
        In the recent conference for the foriegn ministers of Islamic countries in Morocco, the cause of Afghanistan was sabotaged both by the Soviet Union , through its friends in .the conference, and the U.3.A who threatened Lybia with military and economic actions cn the eve of the conference.
        The friends of the Soviets exploited the situation in a good
    way to divert the attention of the conference towards the so-called
    II,S attack on Lybia, The Mujahideen delegation presented the*'** case
    to the conference and a resolution was passed in support of the
    people of Afghanistan, but the Afghan issue was not given lbs pro-\ .
*■ per importance,.
        We reject the view of the so-called radical states who say that the Afghan cause undermines the importance of Palestinian problem and think that the massacres of Sabra and Shatilla by Zionists are as painful as the massacres of the people of Afghanistan by the Red Army,
        American policy makers acted emotionally, ehoslng a wrong time
                               i
    for their compaign against Lybia, The only winner in this, game was the Soviet Union who avoided strong criticism and condemnation of their atrocities in Afghanistan without being directly involved in it.