               ,:. aamaaaaaas aaa :gases aaaai^Siia^^     iBsaaatiaaa; ^s^smsmsms^
Vol 8, No 15                                                                  August 1,1992
     The Republic of Tajikistan and the Islamic State of Afghanistan have agreed to establish diplomatic relations and cooperate in economic and trade matters.
     The Tajik delegation, headed by Akbar Sekandarof, the acting chairman of Tajikistan's supreme council, came to Kabul on July 13 to hold talks with Afghan leaders. The prime minister and foreign minister of Tajikistan were included in the delegation.
     During their slay in Kabul, the Tajik guests met with President Rabbani, Prime Minister Farid, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood and other officials of Afghanistan.
     Afghanistan has agreed to give training to young Tajik diplomats in Kabul. The two sides agreed to form a joint commission 10 study the possibility of exporting Afghan gas to Tajikistan in return for electricity supplied to Afghanistan.
     They also agreed to cooperate in eradicating agricultural diseases and cany out a feasibility study for joint power projects on the Amu and Panja rivers along the borders of the two countries. They will study the possibili ty of establishing air links between Kabul and Dushambe.
     The security situation along the border of the two countries also came under discussion in the talks. Tajikistan, which is facing political crises at home, is worried about the temptation for the opposition to seek military assistance from Afghan Mujahideen across the border. But the Islamic government assured the Tajik delegation of non-interference in the internal affairs of the republic. Prof. Rabbani said that Afghanistan was in favor of political stability in Tajikistan.
     The government of Tajikistan has offered border trade between the two countrie.
Casualties of Kabul clashes
     The three days of fighting between Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party, and Itiihad Islami of Prof. Sayyaf in western districts of Kabul resulted in the killing and injuring of as many as 1,000 people and the destruction of many houses, shops and cars.
     The immediate reason for the clashes that started on July 18 could not be ascertained, but tension between the two parties had led to fighting once before at the beginning of June.
     Two thing, happened before this tragic event which might have triggered the violence:
     On July 12, the head of the Saudi-based Muslim World league in Peshawar, Abulhasan Madani, a Saudi national, was kidnapped by Hezb Wahdat and was released the next day after intervention by several Mujahideen leaders.
     The leadership council issued a statement on July 17 asking all Mujahideen groups to leave the city, and gave charge of the security of their respective areas lo the joint forces of the defense and interior ministries. The clean-up area was situated west of the city where Hezb Wahdat and Ittihad have a presence.
     The representative of Wahdat had refused to attend Leadership Council meetings because the three ministries promised to that party by Prof. Mujaddidi were not given to it.
     A statement of the ministry of defense said the fighting was the work of those who wanted to disrupt the cleanup operation. ,
     The two sides made use of artillery, heavy rockets and mortars against each other. An estimated 3,000 rounds of surface-to-surface rockets were fired by both sides.
     Fighting was brought to an end through political discussions and a permanent ceasefire was signed on July 21. The leaders of the two sides told the
    1,000
 leadership council that they had not planned die attack and promised to do everything possible to avoid recurring this tragedy in the future.
    The two sides also fought a propaganda war accusing each other of being puppets in the hands of foreigners. Afghan politicians usually blame foreigners for the problems of their country.
    While there is no sign of involve ment by foreign countries in the recent trouble, the state-owned Tehran Radio of Iran allowed Hezb Wahdai's in flam matory statements to be broadcast. The radio even went so far as to blame Professor Rabbani for the tragic fighting because he refused to give the thftfe ministerial posts promised by Prof. Mujaddidi to Hezb WahdaL Quoting an unknown Hezb Wahdat source, the radio claimed that Rabbani had refused • to give them the posts in order to please Saudi Arabia!
    After signing the ceasefire, all parlies agreed to help restore law and or der by cooperating with the clean-up operation. Three security districts were activated in the battle areas. The responsibility of each district was given jointly to two parties.
    According a defense ministiy source, eight security districts out of 12 have been activated in Kabul and the remaining four will begin working soon. The source said that these measures will improve the law and order situation in the capital.
    These tragic incidents caused a great deal suffering for the people of Kabul. Several thousand people left their homes to avoid fighting. The incident gave a chance for criminal elements to loot private and public property.
    The leadership council has appointed a commission headed by the
 (I
To page (3)
  -------------__------------------------ AFGHANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Commander Bismillah Khan
     Bismillah, ihc commander of Bagram Air Base, is a close associate of Commander Masood. He played a <ey role in the Mujahideen'^ capture of this strategic airfield, located about 4(1 kilometers north or Kabul.
     In 1988, Bismillah was appointed Ihc deputy commander of the Central Zone of the Supervisory Council, covering Kapisa and Parwan provinces and the .area north of Kabul. He organized military operations along Lhc Salang Highway in addition to dealing with the political and logistical problems of the area.
 Due to its location, the area was                                                                                                          0_
 crucial to controlling the regime's sup- was ^ m()sl >IIU.„IUCIU sludcm.in his                                                        ‘»sh,r   where       ■*
 ply lines. The Bagram area also wit- ctes- Hc Ji(] wc„ jn ^ re|i stayed in hiding lot two months. When ncssed hot rivalries between the io(JS subjccts bu[ his-performance in *c Mujahideen reached Bazarak. hc
 Mujahideen parlies.                     natural sciences was poor.                                                     joined them.
     In order to intensify his work in Bcsidcs allcndin(!                     ^                                    con. Bismillah ux)k pan in the opera-1
 and around Kabul Masood relumed to Unucd lo sludy Is,ai^ic on his tion of 1979 in Panjsh.r against the
 Pajshcr from his base in Tahqan at the own He witncsscd communist activi- communis! regime. After two months, end of 1991. He ordered Bismillah lo Ues in his school when hc was a student lhe Mujahideen were defeated due to intensify his work among Ihc civilian in' Rukha Hc hegan working againsl- shortages of ammunition. Alter spend-populauon and the military units of Ulc communis, rcgimC when hc was a in« somc in ^ “PI** I™1 01 thc the.regime stauoned in the area.         s(udcnl Qf ^ Abu Hanjfa madrassa jn valley, hc and somc other men went to
     Masood sent Bismillah to Bagram Ka^u|                                                                              Pakistan to spend thc winter and return
 at the beginning of April. In addition to Bismillah took an active part in the with arms and ammunition the next eltminaung the militia units around the 1979 Chindawol uprising. Thc plan was
 base, hc met with 400 officers from the ^ allack various slalions in ^ In Peshawar, Bismillah began to air force and the 40th Army Division capjuJ ,0 gjvc ^ my ] chanrt t0 work in the Jami at Information in Bagram. As a result of this wotk. the slage a coup. The operation was spon- C°mmittce and also helped the base and army division headquarters sorcd by Jamral and organized by Mujahideen Trom Panjshcr who visited fell to the Mujahideen on April 15 Mohammad Arif                                                                        Peshawar for work or medical treai-
 wiihoul any major bloodshed.        Scvcral wcnt WK)ng Thc re. menu His success in this job was the
     At about 2:00 am on April 15. gime gol wind of lhc operation the reason behind Masoods decision to Bismillah was in the base command njghi before Then Arif was killed choosc him as a member of his staff center when Najib, the head of the whcn ^      hc’                 was carrying                                     ex- when he relumed to Panjshir in 1981.
 Kabul regime, phoned to check up on plodcd m hour                 the shut of                                      the Bismillah continued these        dudes
 the situation. He was told that the situ- attack                                                                       until 1983. He demonstrated great abili-
 adon was under control.             The commander of the police sta- lV in dealin8 with P^P10 and extraoidi-
     A few minutes later hc called pon that Bismillah was assigned lo cap- nary padence in enduring and ovcrcom-again, and once again was told the situ- ^re was cooperauve and sympathetic, “* difftculUes-ation was normal. When he called for and ^ pron,^ (o surrender after the " Bismillah's fiist independent billet . .^ .. . *“d_ li!ne- Genera! Mustafa, a _0pewlj0B had slaned. The                                           people who was given him at the end of 1984, when
  trusted pilot, told him that the base haid ; were ^ipposed to attack                                     this station he was apP°intcd *he head of logistics
  fallen to thc Mujahideen. Najib hung were mainly studcnts from Bismillah's for PanJsher At that time, much of the up and never called back. About twen- xYiool the Abu Hanifa Madrasa, a re- valley was occupied by Soviet forces,
  ty-four hours later, hc tried to escape    ]igious             in j^i But                                      opera_   Mujahideen bases in thc lower valley
  the country but failed.                don was called off due to the unfore- were facing severe shortages of food
      Bismillah then organized the visit probicms.                                                                      and ammunition,
  of Abdul Wakil, the foreign minister of odlCr groupS g0ldlc mcssagc : Bismillah established his base in
  the former regime , to Jabulseraj to  cling off           ^ attaek cxccpl those as- vSalang begin to provide food and
  meet Masood. This meeting resulted in signed            attack thc police                                  station in ammunition to these bases. A$ a result
  surrender of the regime forces to the       chindawol, a district in                                      Kabul’s Old of his work> *** levcl of fieht‘
  Mujahideen.                                    City mainly inhabited                                       by- ethnic mg increased in the vaUey. In the mean-
      Bismillah was bom 32 years ago Hazaras. Fighting broke out and many hmc, he began to get involved in the in Shaikhan, a village in die town of veo?[e were students from the political and military works of Jami'at’s
  Rukha, Panjsher. His father Gausuddin faculty 0f literature at Kabul University Mujahideen in .Kapisa and Parwan was a cobbler. He learned the basics of were involved in this attack. r provinces. Experience gathered during Islam in the mosque school of the yil- The communist regime unleashed
  lage and enrolled in the Rukha High a 0f icn-or Hundred of local peo-                                                                To    page (8)
  School at the age of seven, where he                                                                                      -               r ®
 pic, mainly Hazaras, were rounded up. Iran was blamed for inciting thc uprising. a baseless allegation. Within hours thc situation was back under thc government’s control.
      By nightfall, more than 250 sLu-dcni-S from Abdu Hanifa school had been arrested. Most were not involved in the uprising. They were taken to Polygon, a lank training ground close to Pul i-('harkhi prison where government officials executed and buried political opponents. They were buried them aim- by bulldozers thc same niglu.
      RismilNih wtiii nndp.rir round
AKillANcws Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
Lack of security forces Sikhs to leave Kabul
    Violence against Sikhs and Hindus in Kabul has forced a great number of them to sell their belongings and leave the country. About 30 percent of Cabul’s 50,000 families of Sikhs and ' liridus have already left for India. •
    Hindus and Sikhs enjoyed a relatively comfortable life in Afghanistan. There was no hostility between them and the local people.'They enjoyed a better economic life than the majority of Afghans and were mainly involved in trade.
    After the fall of the Kabul regime a large number of armed Mujahideen poured into Kabul. Enforcing law and order became difficult. Hindus and Sikhs became targets of crime and violence because of their wealth. Criminal elements freed from jail along with people who served in the communist regime’s armed forces indulged in violent actions against ordinary Sikhs and Hindus.
    Although they were hardly the only victims of criminal elements, they started to leave the country in great numbers because they belonged to a religious minority group.
    The Indian Embassy in Kabul has asked the Islamic government to protect Hindu, and Sikh communities which have beerna target of attack and looting by some criminal elements.
    In his speech to the nation, Prof. Rabbani promised to protect the lives and property of members of the Sikh
 Kabul clashes
  |~~ From page (1)
 Secretary-General of the. Afghan Red Crescent Society to prepare a report about casualties and material losses caused by this pointless conflict.
 and Hindu communities. Other officials of the govern me nt, including Ahmad Shah Masood, Lhe defense minister, assured the Sikhs and Hindus of government's protection but providing security in a city of more than two million people in the presence of tens of thousands of armed men is not an easy job.
     Two Indian political parties, one Sikh and one Hindu, have asked the Indian government to evacuate their coreligionists from Kabul.
     Each day many Sikhs and Hindus queue in front of the Indian Embassy in Kabul for Indian visas.
     The Islamic government is obliged under Sharia law to protect property and honor of all its citizens, including religious minorities.
     It is hoped that with the gradual restoration of law and order in Kabul, they will stop leaving the country, and that even those who have gone will return.
     Many Afghan Hindus and Sikhs sympathized with the Mujahideen in their struggle against the pro-Moscow regime in Kabul.
     India has said it will send food and medical supplies to Afghanistan. An Indian External Affairs Ministry spokesman said on May 15 his country would send $500,000 worth of food and urgent supplies to the new government in Afghanistan, adding that 150 tonnes of essential commodities would go immediately. India has also worked out an arrangement with Kazakhstan for the supply of 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan. New Delhi has urged the new republic to expedite the transport of the foodstuffs to help the people of Afghanistan, the spokesman said.
 The use of tight
    ’I can see in the dark,1 boasted Nasruddin one day in the teahouse. ,
    ’If that is so, why do wc sometime I see you carrying a light through the streets?'
    Only to prevent other people from colliding with me.’
 Prudence
     Nasruddin was invited to a wedding feast. The last time he had been to that house, someone had carried off his sandals. Now, instead of leaving them at the door, he stuffed them into the inner pocket of his coat.
     What book is that in your pocket?' his host asked him.
     Tie may be after my shoes,' thought Nasruddin; 'besides - I have a reputation as a learned man to keep up.’ Aloud he said: The subject of the bulge that you see is "Prudence"/
     How interesting! Which bookshop did you get it from?'
     As a matter of fact, I got it from a shoemaker/
 Fixed ideas
     'How old are you Nasruddin?’
     '’Forty*
     ’But you said the same last time asked you, two years ago!’
     Yes, I always stand by what I
 have said.'
      Some leaders of the parties involved in fighting paid visits to hospitals to express sympathy with the victims of the tragedy, and distributed cash for the victims in front of the TV cameras. Only politics can describe these contradictory gestures.
      The two parties involved in fighting also indulged in kidnapping each others’ supporters.
      The people in Kabul, who were used to the leadership style of the previous regime, expected the defense ministry to employ force to end the tragedy. But the defense minister believes that these incidents are of political nature and can be dealt with more quickly and effectively through political means.
!   / M-'f
   The Prophet (Peace be upon /
 ah oath, and they hurried for it|| The Prophet ord^redltilalldfe a
 should be drawn amongstfhe~~
W

alto #lro:-wiiuId'tiKe ariother
88K

                    $ S-ggft
                  rnmm

	
 111 , j®tB mmMk teMmm


  m
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1, 1992, page ©
   Editorial ___________________
 Afghans need emergency aid
     Afghans heed foreign assistance to overcome food and fuel shortages, and to deal with the massive return of refugees.
     Fourteen years of war have devastated the country and destroyed its economy. A harsh winter is approaching, and there are already shortages of food, medicine and fuel, both in the capital and the countryside. Thousands of homesick refugees pour back into the country every day. They need additional assistance to rebuild their houses and resume Lheir lives in their villages and towns.
     Foreign assistance can be channeled ihnough the UN, non-govemmcnial organizations and bilateral agreements with the Islamic government. The UN Secretary-General has appealed for $180 million for aid to Afghanistan but the international community's response, to this appeal has not been encouraging.
     Aid sent by friendly countries have had mostly symbolic importance. A few hundred tons of ghee, flour and sugar will have little effect on the food situation. Foreign countries and agencies give the following reasons for their reluctance to give aid to the Islamic government:
     • Lack of security
     • Political instability
     • Drug production
     We should admit that the security situation in the country is not very good, the political situation is shaky and there are people who grow drugs within Afghanistan's territory.
     But raising these issues now is premature, and conditioning aid on the establishment of law and order is putting the cart before ihe horse.
     Security is the foremosi concern of the Islamic government right now. The situation is gradually improving. In Kabul, eight of 12 security districts have been activated and the rest will begin to function in coming days.
     While the government is sincere in its efforts to bring security to the capiLal, it needs time and resources to do so. Refusing aid will hurt the government's efforts to improve security in the capital.
     Political stability will follow the establishment of law and order. All the parties are committed to forming a representative government in Afghanistan. Implementation of the Peshawar Accord can provide a base for the political process to achieve this goal. There is a government in place in which all the Mujahideen groups are prarticiparing.
     Opium cultivation in Afghanistan has a long history. The government has announced its readiness to combat drug trafficking and production. In order to do this, a strong central government must be formed in Kabul. The present government is sincere in its desire to combat drugs, but it needs rime and assistance to extend its control to the areas where it is being grown.
     The government in Kabul faces two other major problems:
     Winter is approaching. The government has to stock enough food, medicine and fuel to enable the people to survive the long, harsh winter.
     The second problem is the return of peat numbers of refugees from Pakistan and Iran. By the end of the year there will be one million more mouths to feed in a country wracked by shortages of food and fuel.
     In order to stabilize the situation and avoid a human tragedy during the coming winter, friendly countries who helped the people of Afghanistan during the years of Jehad should support the new Islamic government generously.
     More than other countries, Russia and other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States have a moral obligation towards the people of Afghanistan, a nation to which they laid waste. CIS states have lumber, oil and other commodities that can help the people to rebuild their houses and keep them warm during the winter.
     Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood has appointed three deputy defense ministers, a move to involve more parries in establishing law and order in the capital.
     The deputy defense ministers arc Gulzarak, of Iuihad lslami, a Pushioon from Pakria; Colonel Abdul Hakim of Hczb lslami (Hikmatyar), a Tajik from Kapisa; and Sayyed Hasan from Hczb Wahdal, a Hazara from Ghazni.
     He also has appointed Mir Anjamuddin, a pilot, as the new commander of the air force.
     Activities for the formation of a new cabinet arc continuing. The ministers of defense, interior, education, foreign affairs and chief justice will keep their portfolios based on the Peshawar agreement
     Despite Hezb's participation, Hikmatyar continues to issue statements condemning the Islamic government In an interview with BBC he said the government was un-lslamic and that his party would not lay down arms until a true Islamic government had been formed in Kabul.
     He criricizccLMasood for failing to bring security to the city. He said forces of the interior ministry, not the defense ministry, should be made responsible for law and order in Kabul.
     He also criticized Prof. Rabbani indirectly, describing him as a leader forced on the people. But although he calls the government in Kabul un-Islamic, he has authorized Abdul Saboor Farid, a prominent member of his party, to take part as prime minister. He continues to seek further concessions in government for his party.
     Hezb's claims that General Dostum has sent 10,000 fresh troops to Kabul inspired popular alarm about further armed clashes between Hczb and Dostum's men, and possible further rocket attacks by Hezb on civilians.
     A Dostum spokesman said the level of his troops had not increased and that those brought from the north would merely replace those withdrawn recently on regular duty rotation.
     Prime Minister Farid's absence from TV for a few days gave strength to rumors that he had been secretly recalled by his party. But the real reason was illness, which forced him to cancel his appointments for three days.
AFGIIANews Vol 8, No 15, August 1,1992, page ©
     Dear editor,
     It was a real pleasure to get your letter of June 7 from Kabul. We arc seeing history being made as AFGHANews moves from Peshawar to Kabul. May Allah bless you and those with you.
     Insha’allah I hope lo be in Kabul on August 4 or 5. 1 will try to call you from Pakistan. I will need your help to move around and to interview President Rabbani and Defense Minister Masood.
     I hope to get enough photos and interviews lo -write an entire book on the new Islamic Afghanistan.
     Can you possibly make arrangements for me to visit Tajikistan for one day? I am willing to pay for the transportation.
     Kaukab Siddique,
     Kingsville, MD
     USA
     Dear editor,
     I pray for martyrs of Islam and wish a long and prosperous life for all the Mujahideen, especially Ahmad Shah Masood.
     I congratulate the workers of AFGHANews for the victory of the Islamic revolution. I am so happy that the leader of Jami’ai is the president of the country and AFGHANews, for which I used to work, is being published from beloved Kabul.
     Ahmad Ehsan Amani
     Kimbcrling, CA
     USA
     Dear editor.
     Thank you so much for your recent letter. You have no idea how happy your letter made me feel. Please know that I join you in your happiness.
     I have been following ihe stones in the.newspapers here. I was happy to read that Prof. Rabbani will follow Mr. Mujaddidi as the nation's leader. Prof. Rabbani and Jami'at Islam i has been described very well in the US newspapers.
     I hope that someday I can bring my sons to Afghanistan, especially the Panjshcr Valley.
     I am very happy that you and your family arc finally able to "come home." I was also happy to know that Akram is well. I remember him and you and the nice picnic we had in Paghmnu one
 year after your classes had ended.
     Please know that you, your family, and all the people of Afghanistan continue to be in my daily prayers. Please continue to write and send your high quality newspaper. It is truly a professional publication.
     Paul Williams
     Holbrook MA
     USA
     Dear editor,
     1 am in receipt of the most recent AFGHANews Vol. 8 No. 12 dated June 15. I wish to continue as a subscriber and would appreciate you advising me when to renew iL
     News of events in Afghanistan and, in particular, in Kabul sounds quite grim. It is difficult to imagine the power struggle which is taking place. The price is far too high as the "war" drags on and on. My heart bleeds for the victims and for the lost generations of children who have no knowledge or memories of Afghanistan whatsoever. I pray (in my own way) for a rational resolution and soon, before it is really loo late.
     1 wish to compliment you and your publication for the very high standard set and lo express the hope for the continuation of AFGHANews.
     Mrs. J. Hcringman
     Dorset - England
     Dear editor,
       I hope you are fine and that my letter w'ill find you in the best of health. I saw in AFGHANews that its address has been changed. Thanks to Allah all things are happening smoothly. When I saw Prof. Mujaddidi decided to prolong his term as interim president, I was afraid how Commander Masood would tackle the problem and what would be the future of agreement among Mujahideen leaders. But Allah helped you all. There was no more bloodshed. Now I can hope the leadership council under Prof. Rabbani will be able to establish peace and stability all over Afghanistan.
     There is lack of information about the situation of Afghanistan. You should have a plan to publish a Bangla news bulletin from your embassy in Dhaka.
     Dr. Wahiduzzaman
       Dhaka - Bangladesh
    Secui^^ Kabul seized chore tha»?:®8di bottles of liquor; in Qabel          bast of die city - of
 smuggled; toPakistant After estab~
 in tlaS®                       sale and
 transport of alcoholic drinks were
 lifted!         U.::; •If £ I.
    The Indian ambassador to Kabul handed 12 tonnes of dry milk over to the Foreign Ministry of Islamic Slate otf Afghanistan on Jply 17* |;
    According to a source of the ministry, a further consignment of 66 tonnes of Indian food will reach Kabul in th&near
    The ^^^atici|| of Afghan reft* gees living in Germany donated sixteen tons:-of medicine to the Health Ministry Of Afghanistan on J uly 17 The medicine was collectedfrom pri? vate companies in Germany.
 fill f^is^nMUi;providc automobile Islamic State of ilAitghahisi^ was stated after the meeting between a Pakistani diplomat and the| acting Transport! Minister Mohammad Khalil Zohad, •tin Jllty '1 % C;Y.:
   ; - the House Construction Factory July 22 in Kabul: Sopped • working' to lack of construction material several months ago; This state-owned fac-toryiiasthe airniial capacity building! 500 houses; T-;       -::: >£
            -              7
    F; ThelCRC Chief in Frank; Lador has said that
the president, due to the policies of the previous regime Bakhtar Agency was not trusted worldwide.
    President Rabbani said that the former regime used the agency as means to tell lies and prevent reporting of the true situation. When the people of an area launched an attack against the communist regime, for example, it was reported that the people of that specific area held a meeting in support of the regime, he added.
    He warned the reporters of extremism in reporting because exaggeration would discredit the reporters and the agency they work for.
    In socialist countries, he said, propaganda replaced reporting and in most cases the people and rulers began to be influenced by this propaganda.
    For example, he said, before the 1967 Arab-Israel war Egyptian media boasted about the strength of that country's army and described the enemy forces as weak. When the war started the Egyptian army was defeated and its people who had believed the lies of their government were stunned.
    "In the countries where the people are provided with facts, people realize the limitatiohsof their government and adjust their expectations to reality,” he said.
    President Rabbani said that the interests of the country might dictate
i----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                         For subscription to AFGHAN ews apply to:
             Shah Mohammad Book Co. Charah-i-Sadarat P.O.Box 1328 Kabul- Afghanistan Telephone: 25886
                     SUBSCRIPTION RATE Home: 250 Afs. per copy; Students 100 Afs.
                    'Yearly Afs. 5000; Students 2400 Afs. Abroad: $ 2 per copy (including mailing cost) Yearly $ 50
 IIV gwu 11 ■ pwpiv WIIV Villi JIISI IV1I Ull
 truth and there was no good in leaders who refused to hear the truth.
 The President said that reporting should become subordinate to political objectives. If that happens, the reporters loose their credibility and fail to correct mistakes.
 He said that the only thing to which a journalist in an Islamic government must commit himself is loyalty to Islam and the country. Telling the truth is part of that loyalty, he added.
 He said that Afghan journalists should try,to earn worldwide credibility because its absence forces people to turn to foreign news agencies, *•
 Prof. Rabbani said the foreign news agencies, despite their worldwide reputation, in many cases fail to present a true picture of the situation in Afghanistan.
 He said although the country was facing a crisis due to 14 years of war, the situation was under control. He said rumors were being spread against the Islamic government and thai the situation was being described as worse than it was.
 Due in part to biased reporting, foreign countries have refused to give assistance for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. "Our journalists should try to combat these destructive rumors by telling the truth," Rabbani said.
 from all over the country to join the government’s central command and impose law and order. After some sLiff battles, Masood shook hands with Hikmalyar at the end of May over a deal to cease lighting and work lor a lasting peace. However, last week's (July 4th) rocket barrage on Kabul shattered the peace and dashed hopes of an enduring compromise.
      Nobody is under any illusion that Afghanistan's troubles are now over Despite the. heady talk of elections, ol encouraging the refugees to return ami of the need to rebuild, Afghanistan to day is a shell-shocked, bankrupt coun try. For Masood, his task now will be to prove that he is not just a man ol war, but also a man of peace.
From page (2)
 this period prepared him for his key future role in the area.
      Prior to the famous seventh Soviet offensive in Panjshcr in 1984, arms, ammunition and other equipments stationed in the valley were transferred to the North so that they would not fall into enemy hands. Wheji the initial phase of the attack passed, Masood and his Mujahideen returned to Panjshcr.
      They needed food, arms and ammunition, and- Bismillah successfully organized the dispatch of supplies to the valley from Baghlan and Takhar provinces.
      He also undertook the job of collecting food and distributing it among the Panjshcri refugees in the north. Commanders from Kunduz, Takhar and Baghlan contributed generously in providing assistance to the refugees, helping them to stay on in Afghanistan rather than flee the country.
      Today Bismillah is married and has three children.
Gulbuddin attacks Kabul
     Hezb Islami 's attack on Kabul, which began on August 10, killed and wounded more than 1,000 people and destroyed hundreds of public buildings, private houses and other property. Thousands of residents of Kabul took refuge in safe areas of Kabul or migrated to the provinces.
     The attack was launched at 5:00 am on Monday from three directions in south and southeast. The ground offensive was accompanied with extensive rocket attacks on Kabul airport and the city. More than 000 rocket fell In Kabul In less than 90 minutes.
     The attack was aimed at removal of the Islamic government by force and establishment of Hezb'i rule.
     The animosity of Hikmatyar began with the formation of the interim Islamic government at the end of April. Instead of talking to other Mujahideen leaders about the formation of a Mujahideen government, Gulbuddin wanted to establish hts rule through military force.
     On April 26, he launched an attack on Kabul with the help of Khalq faction of the communist regime but was defeated ,by the forces loyal to the Islamic government. After this historical defeat, he maintained pressure on Kabul by launching indiscriminate rocket attacks killing and wounding hundreds of its residence.
     A number of well-wishers of Jehad, both Afghans and foreigners, tried to mediate a settlement between Gulbuddin and the government Prof. Rabbani and Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood met with Hikmatyar. A permanent ceasefire was announced and way for participation of Hezb in the government was paved.
     Gulbuddin has been demanding withdrawal of Division 53 of General Dostum. The defense ministry has been saying that the withdrawal of these traces depended on improvement of security situation in Kabul and removal
 of the threat of attack from south by Hikmatyar. .
     After two months from the formation. of the interim government, Gulbuddin agreed to the participation of Abdus Saboor Farid in the government. But, one day before Farid's entry into Kabul, rocket attack by Hezb killed 100 civilians and wounded 300 more.
     It was hoped that after assumption of prime minister post by Farid the situation would improve. But, Hezb continued his hostile policy towards the government by creating problems for supply convoys along the highways and launching rocket attacks on the capital
     Hikmatyar also intensified his subversive activities against the government in Kabul and tried to exploit the differences between Ittihad Islami of Prof. Sayyaf and Hezb Wahdat. By entry of Farid into Kabul Hezb’s subversive .elements gained more freedom and the prime minister's house was turned into an intelligence gathering center and outpost for guiding artillery and rocket fire.
     The new phase of Gulbuddin's confrontation with the government began about one months ago when he claimed that more than 7,000 fresh troops from division 53 had reached , Kabul. Meanwhile, he Intensified propaganda war against president Rabbani and Defense Minister Masood and escalated the tension by military provocations.
     After some skirmishes south of Kabul, Hezb chose the Kabul airport as the main target of his attacks claiming that the airport was being used for military purposes.
     These attacks succeeded in cancelling the planned visit of Mohammad Nawaz Sharif, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, to Kabul and the visit of President Rabbani to Teheran and Islamabad.
     Another target of Gulbuddin’s attack was the transmitter of TV located on a hill in the middle of the city. He succeeded in silencing the TV after days of rocket, and artillery attacks which' killed ^uid wounded scores of
 people in a poor area of Kabul.
     The defense ministry’s reaction to Hezb’s attack were restricted. The restrained reaction was aimed to avoid escalation of war. The government wanted to tell to the ordinary people, the main victims of Gulbuddin’s attacks, that it was not responsible for the start of the war and prevent misunderstanding between different Mujahideen groups.
     A cluster rocket attack on the center of the city on the fourth day of war killed 100 ordinary people and wounded 200.
     Until August 15, the government reaction to Hezb's attacks was of a defensive nature. But there were signs that government troops were preparing for an offensive attack to dislodge the invaders from their positions around the city.
     According to some diplomatic sources a convoy of arms and ammunition crossed the border into Afghanistan , from Pakistan for Hikmatyar. The report, was denied by the official spokesman of Pakistan. Nawaz Sharif has said that his government would not allow Pakistan's territory to be used by elements who step on moral values. It was a clear reference to Hezb which attacked civilian targets inside the city. Hezb still has offices in Pakistan which carry out propaganda war against the Islamic government in Kabul. Hezb receives financial support from its supperters in Middle East through Pakistani banks.
     Although Nawaz Shari fs intentions to end support for Gulbuddin cannot be disputed, there are elements within the army establishment in Pakistan who have close ties with Hikmatyar and do not hesitate to support their strategic friend. There are reports that some Arab and Pakistani volunteers .are fighting along the forces of Gulbuddin against the government in Kabul. President Rabbani in his speech on radio called on all friendly countries, especially neighboring and Islamic countries, to end supporting the
   B33 To page (7)
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mohammad Mirza
    Commander Mirza is in charge of security in southwestern Kabul. He has several battalions of the Supervisory Council's Mujahideen under his command.
    He reached Kabul on April 26 and brought the headquarters of the Kabul garrison under his control . On May 7, he was placed in charge of security for southwest Kabul, which was threatened by Hczb Islami and infighting between Mujahideen groups.
    Mirza was responsible for the liberation of the Salang Valley on April 12, two days before the fall of Jabulscraj and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, to the Mujahideen of the Supervisory,Council.
    Mirza was appointed commander of the strategic Salang valley in 1989 after Qari Kamaluddin, the then commander of the valley, was killed in action. When he assumed his job, the road connecting Kabul to the north was protected by posts and minefields making it almost impossible for the Mujahideen to approach the road and ambush the enemy convoys.
    Commander Mirza developed a new tactic. He dug 35 tunnels, along the road and put heavy weapons at the mouth of each tunnel. He.attacked the road by heavy weapons and the caves provided protection for the weapons and their crew from aerial and artillery bombardments. He is still the commander of Saiang and 700 Mujahideen frprri that Valley are working under him in Kabul.
    Commander Mirza has taken part in many operations outside the Panjshir valley. He took part in the capture of Taliqan, Kcran-o-Munjan and Andarab.
    Mirza was the commander of Shaba, a side valley in the middle of Panjshir and Scene Of heavy fighting, from the start of Jehad until he was posted in Salafig. During the first, second and third offensives against Panjshir, the Mujahideen under his command fought bravely against the Red Army and inflicted heavy losses on them. During the fifth and sixth offensives, Shaba was the scene of bloody clashes between the two sides. Iii an attack by the Sovietsto rescue a captured regime pilot, Mirza lost 22 of his Mujahideen in one day. But dozens of Soviet and regime troops also were killed, and 36 AK-74s, a standard weapon used by the Red Army, were captured.'The enemy failed to rescue the captured pilot.
     When Commander Masood ordered the evacuation of the valley in preparation for the seventh Soviet offensive in 1984, Mirza and a few of his Mujahideen stayed behind to monitor the movement of the Soviet troops and launch small-scale attacks on their patrols. He chose springs as ambush spots and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. After each ambush, he and his men crossed the mountain into the next valley and returned several hours later. His presence proved useful. He got information about the minefields which proved extremely useful to Commander Masood when he returned to the valley about two months after the start of the Offensive,
     Due to the leadership Of Commander Mirza and his continued military operations in Shaba, scores of young commanders emerged from among the Mujahideen. They rendered great.service to the cause of Jehad outside and inside Panjshir. Some of these commanders died in action; others such as Commander Momeri, Rasool Baig and Sayyed Alem are still engaged in Jehad.
     Commander Mirza is a soft-spoken arid humble person who rarely speaks about his achievements. When asked whether he was surprised by the quick fall of the regime, Mirza said that he was confident Of the Mujahideen's victory and was aware of the work done by Commander Masood for the overthrow of the regime. "What surprised me," he said, " was the way some Mujahideen parties behaved. I expected the Mujahideen leaders to form a stable Islamic government to protect life and property of the people. Instead of cooperating with each other for achievement of peace and stability, they indulged in sueft activities which destabilized the
 situation further.”
     Commander Muza expressed sympathy with the people of Kabul who had suffered during the 14 years of Jehad and were still being subjected to hardship due to irresponsible actions by some indisciplined armed groups. He said: "The gunmen should be taken out of Kabul at any cost to let the people resume their peaceful lives."
     Mirza joined Commander Masood in 1979 when lie launched attacks against the Khal.qi regime in Panjshir and Salang. Mirza accompanied Martyr Kifayatullah in the operation which led to the destruction of a key bridge in Salang.
     When Masood was wounded and the Mujahideen retreated to the upper part of the valley, Mirza took refuge in Shaba and kept his contact with Masood. The upper parts of the valley, including Shaba, were liberated before December, 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Commander Mirza played a key role in keeping the Shaba base active.                  '
     Mirza was bom 42 years ago in Zinay, a village in the' middle of Panjshir valley. His father, Haji Ahmad Mir, was a farmer.
     Mirza learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his village. He became involved in trade and opened a shop in Kabul Selling automobile spare parts.
     Mirza served in the communications Section of the army in Jalalabad for two years during the lime of the King. After the communist coup of 1978, he returned to Panjshir to begin Jehad,
     He is married and has four sons. Due to the war, his children missed the opportunity to attend school, but they have learned the basics of Islam in the mosque school.
 * “sr-....      ....—“—1—■—N
   Jami'at builds mosque
      Fazl Ahmad Azimi, the governor of Parwan Province, laid the foundation stone of a mosque and madrasa (religious school) in the city qf Gutbahar on August 1.
      The madrasa has 36 study rooms, a cafeteria and a library. The mosque has the capacity of 300 worshipers.
      The Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council has provided the fund for construction of-the mosque.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16,.' August 15, 1992, page © ^
    Afghanistan am} Iran have agreed to cooperate in the fields of trade, health, culture, postal matters and the fight against drug trafficking.
    An understanding letter in this regard was signed by officials of the Afghan Foreign Ministry and the visiting Deputy Foreign Minister of Iran, Allauddin Brojerdy, in Kabul on July 26.
    The two sides agreed that economic, political and cultural relations between the two countries should be expanded and that a joint commission of the two countries will determine the fields of cooperation.
    The two sides have agreed to allow formation of border markets for the purpose of expansion of border trade. A joint commission will propose the places and form of such markets.
    Iran and Afghanistan agreed to speed up formation of a tripartite committee along with the UN to supervise the return of Afghan refugees from Iran.
    Iran has agreed to train Afghan doctors and build hospitals in Afghanistan. The minister of health of Afghanistan has been invited to visit Teheran.
    Iran has also agreed to train Afghans in the field of post and comT m unication and shown readiness to provide facilities for the' transit of Afghan post through Iran.
    During his stay in Kabul, Borjerdy met with President Rabbani. He extended An invitation from President Rafsanjahi to Prof. Rabbani to visit
 Mazar-i-Sharif. The Afghan government can reciprocate by opening a consulate in one of the cities of Iran. Afganistan has one consulate there, in Mash'had.
     The Islamic Republic of Iran has appointed Mahyuddin Najafi as its ambassador to Afghanistan.
     Najafi dealt with the' Afghan issue when he worked as the Iranian consul in Peshawar, Pakistan, and later as the head of Afghanistan desk of the Foreign Ministry in Teheran.
     Iran was slow in establishing full diplomatic relations with the new Islamic government, and seemed in no hurry to extend full economic support. Iran found it difficult to cooperate with a government that did not include Hezb Wahdat, a party claiming to represent a majority of the Shia community.
     Although Hezb Wahdat has not fully participated in the government, it has introduced one of its famous commanders as the deputy defense minister.
     Iran can help Afghanistan in provision of fuel, food and other essential commodities. The Islamic:government is eager for cooperation with neighboring countries but is also worried about expansion of influence of foreign countries beyond recognized diplomatic levels.
     Press reports had indicated that Iranian planes carrying relief goods reached Kabul and*Mazar without going through normal procedure of getting permission in advance. There were also reports of the Iranian Red Crescent Society's involvement in distribution of relief goods inside Afghanistan without first getting permission from Kabul.
The Reason
     Nasruddin went to see a rich man.
     'Give me some money.’
     ’Why?’
     T want to buy an elephant.’
     ’If you have no money, you can’t afford to keep an elephant.1
     ’I came here, said Nasruddin, ’to get money, not advice.’
 Why don't you?
     Nasruddin went to the shop of a man who stocked all kinds of bits and pieces,
     'Have you got nails?' he asked.
     ’Yes.’
     ’And leather, good leather’?
     'Yes.'
     ’And twine?’
     ’Yes.’
     'And dye?'
     Yes.’
     Then why, for Heaven’s sake, don’t you make a pair of boots?’
 Face the facts
     Nasruddin was crying bitterly one day.                    .
     What's the matter, Nasruddin?' asked his neighbor.
     ’I am sad today, neighbor,' replied Nasruddin, because my.wife is ill.'
     But I thought it was your donkey that was sick,’ replied his neighbor, bemused.
     Yes, it is really, but I am letting myself get used to the shock by easy stages.' ■
Iran. The invitation was accepted and the visit was'to take place from August 8 to 9 but due to security problems, caused by Hezb Islami rocket attacks on airport, the visit was postponed.
     Borjerdy also met with Prime Minister Farid, Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood, Foreign Minister Sayyed Sulman Gailani and other government and party leaders.
     Talking to BBC, Brojerdy demanded a permanent end to fighting between different groups in Kabul. He denied the allegation that most of Iran’s support was given to Shias.
     On the issue of opening new consulates in Afghanistan, he said the previous government had agreed to allow Iran to open its consulates in Herat and
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15,1992, page ®
  Editorial
 Leaders must unite on Gulbuddin's terrorism
    Rocket attacks on Kabul by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb Islami have killed and wounded thousands , of people and destroyed hundreds of public and private buildings and other property in the national capital.     1
    Since the formation of the Islamic government in Kabul at the end of April, Gulbuddin had regularly resorted to force in an effort to achieve his political aims.
    His motive was simple: a thirst for power at any cost, under any pretext. He marshalled his military and propaganda.campaign against the Islamic government under the banner of opposition to General Dostum's forces' continued presence in Kabul; he hoped to gain the sympathy of some political parties within the government by demanding their withdrawal.               • j
    After the communist regime fell, Gulbuddin's forces occupied much of Kabul in an effort to seize control. But they were driven from the capital in short order by Mujahideen and their allies loyal to the Islamic government. Afterward Gulbuddin continued to seek political concessions from the government through negotiations, while maintaining military pressure on Kabul by launching rocket attacks on the city.
    Two days before Prime Minister Farida a Hezb nominee, assumed his post on July 6, Hezb rockets killed 100 people and injured 300 - almost entirely civilians - in downtown Kabul. Such crimes mobilized public opinion in favor of a decisive military push against Hezb, but the government adopted a policy of restraint.
    Despite Hezb's participation in the government, Gulbuddin chose to stay outside Kabul; and he continued his war against the government. He introduced a representative in the Leadership Council, and one of his party members was named deputy defense minister. But he continued to call the government in Kabul un-Islamic, and jncited his followers to wage a "holy war” for its overthrow.
    Two weeks ago, Gulbuddin leveled a false accusation that several thousand fresh Dostum troops had been brought to Kabul, and intensified his attacks against government, forces. He rocketed and shelled many parts of the city, but concentrated his heaviest attacks on Kabul airport Several civilian planes were destroyed, and civilian flights in and out of Kabul were suspended in accordance with international safety regulations. Also as a' result of this shelling, Nawaz Sharifs visit to Kabul and President Rabbani’s visits to Iran and Pakistan vwere cancelled.
    Gulbuddin ordered attacks on civilian targets to incite people against government. People had begun to question the government's policy of restraint and had begun to interpret it as a sign of weakness. Realizing this, Hezb forces intensified their attacks to further exploit ordinary people's difficulties.
    Only a few days before the rocketing began, Prime Minister Farid left Kabul for Pakistan, and then went on to Iran. He embarked on a state visit to seek neighboring countries',help rebuilding Afghanistan while his party was destroying hundreds of public and private buildings and installations!
    Althpugh government forces have been able to push Hezb back from some areas, Gulbuddin's men are still able to target the center of the city with their rockets. This has forced thousands of people to leave their homes to safe areas within and outside the city. The situation will not return to normal until Gulbuddin's forces are pushed so far back that their guns cannot hit the city.
    The following conclusions are clear:
    • Gulbuddin abused the time he gained through political negotiations, mediated by some well-wishers of the Mujahideen, to prepare for a bigger and more
                            B3f° To page (8)
     Ariana Afghan Airlines took a major step toward expanding its services when it bought three Boeing 727-2000 planes from Air France at a total cost of $12,600,000.
     The deal include a spare'engine, repainting of the planes and the training of five pilots, five flight engineers and three co-pilots. .
     Dr. Abdur Rahman, Minister of Civi Aviation and Tourism, signed die deal in Paris one week ago. The three newly bought planes have been insured with Lloyd’s of London.
     He said Ariana bought the planes to exploit the prospect of the new market created after the fall of the communist regime ai^d rebirth of independent states in Central Asia.
     Ariana has currently two Boeing 727s and one Topolov plane operating on international routes. A second Topolov was damaged when it was hit by a rocket fired by Hezb Islami when it was bringing back then President Mujaddidi from an official visit to Pakistan.
     The Aviation Minister discussed with the French transport minister the possibility of resuming Ariana flights to Paris. The French side indicated that such flights -cotild take place in the future.
     Ariana flights to Western Europe and America were suspended when the former communist regime was found guilty of collaboration with. Al-Zulfiqar terrorists who hijacked a PIA plane to Kabul and killed one of its passengers. Now that the regime has fallen, Ariana is trying to resume its flights to Western Europe.
     The Minister of Aviation said the decision ‘to buy the planes was a wise step in view , of developments in Afghanistan and in the region. The planes were remarkably cheep and Ariana had available funds for it, he added. He said with the introduction of three new planes, Ariana would be able to provide better services to its passengers and enhance its ability iii cargo transportation.        '
     When the Afghan delegation was busy signing the deal to buy the planes, the Kabul airport came under rocket attacks from Hezb Islami destroying three civilian planes, one Topolov and two Yak-40s.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15, 1992, page ©
better
    to the
                                  'Editor

                                                                                          ■U
     Dear editor,
     1 congratulate you on the victory of the Islamic revolution. I received the first issue of AFGHANews published from Kabul. I wish your success.
     Please appoint somebody to send us information about developments in Afghanistan.
     Nasir Ahmad Noor
     Mecca-Saudi Arabia.
        x
     Dear editor,
     I congratulate you on the victory of the Islamic revolution. I was extremely pleased when I received the recent issue of AFGHANews from Kabul.
     Afghans living in Australia cannot contact their relatives through telephone. The union of Afghan refugees has asked the Australian government to give a satellite dish to Afghanistan so that the Afghan community in Australia can establish telephone links with their relatives. We are in jdire need of information. We like to receive papers such as AFGHANews, Kabul Times and Mujahid.
     Some Afghans are' interested in returning to Afghanistan to play a role in the reconstruction of their country. If your publication is sent to them regularly, they will know what their role could be.
     Mahmoud Saiqal
     Sydney-Australia
     Dear editor.
     We gladly received AFGHANews today. It is a great pleasure for us to receive your well-reputed AFGHANews, posted this time not from Pakistan but from your liberated capital Kabul; for which hundreds and thousands of Afghan Mujahideen sacrificed their lives heroically. It is fact that AFGHANews played a positive role in the war and it is hoped that it will continue to serve in nation-building. .
     We, the ARAKAN Mujahideen have a strong feeling for. the people of Afghanistan.
     We pray to Allah Almighty for the people of Afghanistan and for their prosperity and solidarity.
     Long life,Afghan Mujahideen
     Long life, Islamic Afghan government
     Shabbir Husain
     Chittagong - Bangladesh
     Dear editor,
     I must thank you for answering my questions in April. I had a good time in Peshawar. I met a lot of people, got a lot of answers and found a lot of interesting documents, reports and books. I have been busy writing a book on Afghanistan which covers different aspects of life of Afghans after many years of Jehad.. To be able to finish this book, we (he and his wife) have decided to come to Kabul. We must see Afghanistan after the war is over. We will arrive in Kabul on 10th of August and hope to see you there.
     We also intend to write articles for Dagens Nyheter, the biggest Swedish morning daily! Many questions are being asked about the situation in Afghanistan. What we get from news agencies are sketchy reports about fighting between Mujahideen groups and new rules for women. I got AFGHANews which was very interesting. A cameraman from the Swedish Television will also accompany us. We want to interview ‘ Ahmad Shah Masood.
     Anders Sundelin
     Bandhagen - Sweden
     The peaceful transfer of power from Prof. Mujaddidi to President Rabbani was a good news. I was extremely pleased to received the 11th and 12th issues of AFGHANews published in Kabul and made several copies and distributed them in mosques and posted them to interested people. The paper provided answer to rumors spread by members of.Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar and supporters of Qazi Husain Ahmad, the leader of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, against the Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     Diplomats in the Afghan embassies should be selected from among the people who are sympathetic to Jehad. Until then, the offices of Mujahideen in various countries should work to combat the wave of propaganda against the Islamic Sate of Afghanistan. To be able to do ,this job effectively, these offices would be provided with information about development in Afghanistan regularly.
     Nazar Mohammad Maaf
     Philadelphia - USA
     The repair work to the drinking water supply system of Pul-i-Khumri Baghlan Province, was completed an July 26.          i:!!'
     It will prov^ drinking water to more than 800 houses ip P&M* Khumrl The supply system was dam i: !•                   =.!
 : /■. jmhT
     Bendn" Sevian, the former UN special envoy for Afghanistan* has been appointed as the undersecretary general for political affairs, the United Nations announced on July 21. .
     Sevan, who is from Cyprus, re-
      Ghaldm Ghous Nasiri, a forme police officer, has been appointed the commander
  •."'•'He .sras^given this lillM Commander Abtjui Haq resigned from this post Abdul Haq whs ap-pchnt^d co^rhiancter of police imme-
                                                                                                                 his resptms^ilkyi!;4:
     Mohammad Aman, an uncle of Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood, was murdered by unknown men at his home in Kabul on July 5. Hewas an; m |              ; ;o|f •
   i .There!:;
 !||g^
 iiis! elder bi||her: • Colonel ; Deed : was kidnapped from Pe^iawar on June 2, 1988. He! ?$ still pissing. 1^;fi<teapping also Was motivated ^ phli^ reasons.
     Seven Afglum men, women and ijh&dren, front;-two refugee frumlies.
      The                      had. ip-;
  to the seaside to spend their weekend |The victims were aged between 13 |and 38. This was the most tragic incident of its type in Australia m the past 50 years.
                                           AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16* August 15, 1992, page ©
Mujahideen's victory celebrated in Sydney
     Afghanistan is moving fast to build the dream of an Islamic State in different dimensions, stated Mahmood Saikal, the Australian Representative of Afghan Mujahideen (JIA), on May 25, at a gathering attended by more than 120 invited guests.
     The reception, held at Canberra’s Albert Hall, was organized by the Afghan Mujahideen (JIA) Australia office to mark the fall of the Kabul regime and the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     Mr Saikal said the month-old Islamic government had already performed well in reinstating the 'political credibility1 of Afghanistan as a free and Islamic country. He said Afghanistan’s request to jbin the six-nation regional organization for economic cooperation (OEC) was welcomed by OEC founders. Turkey, Pakistan, Iran, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan are members of OEC.
     Regarding the Islamization of the social system, he said the vast majority of people in Afghanistan were ready for the full implementation of the Islamic Sharia, and that this was why the Islamic.government’s decrees have been received with joy. The previous week, several thousand bottles of alcoholic drinks, collected from the hotels and shops in Kabul, were broken in front of the public.
     Another speaker in the function was the High Commissioner of Pakistan Mr. Bashir Babur. Congratulating the Mujahideen on their great victory, he said Pakistan will continue to assist Afghanistan in rebuild-
 ing their ruined homeland after the 14-year-long war. He said the relationship between Pakistan and the Afghan Mujahideen #as unique.
      The Charge d’Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Mr. Jawad Murad Khani, also made friendly remarks and welcomed r the Islamization of Afghanistan. He said that !during the Iran-Iraq war, the Foreign Minister of the former Soviet Union had told the Iranian Foreign Minister that his country was ready to withdraw its support of Iraq if Iran stopped supporting the Afghan Mujahideen. But of course Iran chose to continue supporting the Afghan Jehad.
      The gathering was also addressed by an Australian political scientist, Dr. William Maley. Dr. Maley, who has written books and articles on the Afghan issue,' highlighted the tragic dimensions of the conflict, tie spoke about the physical and psychological damage on both sides of-the conflict during the 14-year lorig war.
      Other prominent invited guests iq-. eluded the Egyptian ambassador, Adil Al-Khidri; General Consul of Saudi Arabia, Mr. Mohammad Saleh Al-Hedan; former health minister Senator Humphries; first secretary of the Russian Federation embassy, Mr. Andrei Komukhin; the first secretary of the British High Commission and the first secretary of the Turkish embassy, Mr. Ahmet Arda.
      The function ended with prayers by the Imam of the Canberra Mosque, Amin al Hadi.
UNHCR supports returning refugees
  . The UNHCR chief Sadako Ogata has assured President Burhanuddin Rabbani of UNHCR's commitment to facilitate voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees and to assist in their urgent and immediate rehabilitation.
     In a message sent to the president, she said the UNHCR office in Afghanistan was assisting the needs of both the returnees and the local population and providing the necessary rehabilitation assistance. The message made it clear that UNHCR contribution to this effort would to a large extent depend on the financial support it receives form the international community.
  , The UN Secretary-General made an appeal on May 5 for US$180 mil-
 lion to meet the need of repatriation of the refugees from Iran and Pakistan.
     Ms. Ogata informed Prof. Rabbani that ten thousand or more Afghan refugees were returning daily to Afghanistan.
     The' United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is planning to open six new posts along the border with Afghanistan to cope with the increased number of repatriating Afghan refugees.
     Refugees who surrender their ration cards are provided with 300 kilograms, of wheat and Rs. 3,300 ( Afs.-66,000) in cash at the posts.
     The existing posts are not able to deal with increased number of returning refugees.
Security service head appointed
   The Ministry of National Security was degraded to the Authority of National Security, which will be responsible to the President. Prof. Rabbani has appointed Mohammad Fahim as the head of this authority.
   Fahim, 40, used to work as the Deputy Head of the Political Committee of the Supervisory Council, before the fall of Kabul to the Mujahideen. During 14 years of war, he has served in various posts under commander Masood. He is a graduate of Darul Uloom-i-Arabi, a religious college in Kabul.
   The Leadership Council dissolved the Ministry of State Security immediately after the fall of the communist regime. Some days later, however, it was reactivated under the name of Ministry of National' Security. Prof. Mujaddidi gave the charge of this ministry to Hezb Wahdat, but other members of the Leadership Council did not agree to this because they were not consulted in advance.     |
General killed
 General
 Ghulam Rasool
Parwani, an officer of army intelligence, was killed along with two of his bodyguards when the vehicle carrying him was blown up by a mine in Karta-i-Parwan district of Kabul on July 31.            ;
    Some days before this incident. General Baba Jan, who played a key role in the overthrow of Najib’s regime, was attacked by gunmen. He escaped unhurt but his driver was killed.          *  i
    It is believed that Hezb of Hikmatyar was involved in these terrorist actions:     |
Diplomat murdered
    Abdul Ahad Wolosi, the head of the political department' of the foreign ministry, was killed by unidentified gunmen in Kabul, on July 26.
    He belonged to the Khalq faction of the communist party , and during the Soviet ■ occupation of Afghanistan served as the governor of Ghazni and Balkh provinces. Later, he was appointed as the Charge d' Affairs in Bangladesh and then as the ambassador to East Germany. After the collapse of the Berlin Wall, he was called back to Kabul.
                                                                                                                             
                                                          ! " AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15,1992, page ®                 
Gulbuddin attacks Kabul                                                                                                      
                          | From page (1) I hundreds of public and private build-                                            
                                      ings. TV transmitter, airport, state print-                                            
terroristic organization of Gulbuddin. jng press and other installations of vital                                            
While Hikmatyar was preparing importance were set on fire. A govem-                                                          
     for an extensive attack on Kabul, Farid ment spokesman described the damages                                            
                 left Kabul by road. He went to inflicted by Hezb as irreparable.                                            
                               Islamabad and Teheran to seek support . ...... . .                                            
,. c _ ; ■ . As as result of fighting and road                                    American team                              
of Iran and Pakistan for reconstruction ., i . .. 6. 7 . . .                      visits Kandahar                            
f if i j , ... .. ___„ blocks, the pnces of food and fuel dou-                    An official American dele¬                 
of Afghanistan while his own party - ..                                           gation visited Kandahar on                 
. , , ■ .. i 7 . bled making life miserable for the peo-                          July 15 to assess war damage               
was engaged in destruction of capital. . . . . . *7                               in that province. After holding            
- .,t.. . . . pie. Water and electricity were cut be-                             talks with the commanders,                 
Fand had not sought the permission of F . . _ J . . . ,                           the delegation returned to                 
.u » ... v. • i. cause of the war. Even the hospitals                             Quetta on the same day.                    
the President and neither his visit was ... . ; ...                               The delegation included of¬                
___. . . e ... which were full of wounded people did                              ficials of USAID and the drug              
organized by the foreign ministry. .                                              enforcement agency of the US               
a?. f .I rr e not ha"e water and electricity. Supply                              embassy in Islamabad.                      
After the start of war, the office of .... . . . \                                The delegation was received                
. . . ,, of life-saving drugs are running out and                                 at Speenboldak border post by              
Farid in Kabul was taken over by the . , , V * j                                  members of Kandahar Council.               
- ... . . . due to lack of transportation and conun-                              This is the first official delega¬         
govemment troops and his bodyguards . .. . . . *7 L . . .                         tion from the United States vis¬           
were escorted to outside the city and ucd f,Shun* oflhe doctors * not             ing Kandahar after 14 years.               
were allowed to return home. come to work.                                        The delegation had received for¬           
While the government was busy Even hospitals and embassies were                   mal permission from ihe Afghan em¬         
dealing with the attack from Hezb, not spared by Gulbuddin's rocket at-           bassy in Islamabad.                        
Hezb Wahdat (a Shia party) and luihad lacks. The Red Crescent and military        The commanders in Kandahar                 
of Prof. Sayyaf began to fighfcach oth- . hospitals were damaged in rocket at-    briefed the US delegation about their      
er in the western part of the city. The lacks. Two members of the Russian         problems and promised to cooperate in      
clash began one day after the, clean-up and two Afghan workers of the UN          eradication of opium production in the     
operation to clean the city from the were killed by Gulbuddin rockets. The        province.                                  
armed groups was resigned. The clash UN Security Council asked the two            Herat delegation                           
caused many casualties. After some sides in the conflict to stop fighting and     comes to Kabul                             
days the two sides agreed on a cease- provide protection for the foreigners,      A 36-member delegation                     
fire. Because of Hezb attack on the Representatives of the diplomatic             from the historic province of              
city, the clashes between Wahdat and missions met with President Rabbani          Herat, headed by Commander                 
Ittihad were largely ignored by the seeking his cooperation to leave              Allauddin Khan, reached                    
media. Afghanistan. The president briefed the                                     Kabul July 28 to express sup¬              
As a result of Hezb's attack and delegation about situation in Kabul and          port for the Islamic govern¬               
clashes between Wahdat and Ittihad, a expressed sympathy with the Russians        ment and to seek its assistance            
large number of people of Kabul were and UN officials killed in rocket at-        for the reconstruction of that             
forced to leave their homes and seek tacks. He assured them of government’s       province.                                  
refuge in other parts of the city or out- cooperation for those who wanted to     The delegation, which in¬                  
side Kabul. A large number of trucks leave Kabul. Hikmatyar announced a           cluded representatives of differ¬          
and buses* loaded with refugees and one-day ceasefire to let the diplomats        ent Mujahideen parties, met with           
their belongings were seen heading to- leave Kabul but conditioned his offer to   President Rabbani, Defense                 
wards north. Some refugees also went the release of Hezb prisoners by the         Minister Ahmad Shah Masood                 
towards Ningafhaf Province. These ref- government. A source Of the ministry       and other government leaders.              
ugees are facing tremendous problems of defense said there was no chance of       Most of the people of Herat are af¬        
and no organization offered any help to talking to Hikmatyar and the govem-       filiated with Jami'at Islami               
them. ment was ready to arrange the depar-                                        Afghanistan. Ismail Khan, die chief        
Rocket attacks on Kabul seton fire ture of foreign nationals from Kabul.          commander of Jami'at in that province,     
Men to read Kabul TV news                                                         has been appointed governor and mili¬      
The Leadership Council of ers who extended maximum pressure                       tary commander of Herat.                   
the Islamic State batined read- for the ban were Prof. Sayyaf and                 A civilian administration has been         
ing of news on TV by women Mawlawi Khalis who conditioned their                   set up to run the affairs Of the province. 
on July 27, support to the government to the ban.                                 The law and order situation in Herat       
The women newscasters The decision provoked debate                                has been described as very good, and       
began to wear Islamic dress af- abQUt me role of women in the new                 governmental-offices and schools func¬     
ter the establishment Of the Islamic State. Some women newscast-                  tion normally.                             
IslamiC government but some ers have tried to leave the country.                  But the city of Herat and it sur¬          
Mujahideen parties were not '                                                     rounding areas were devastated during      
satisfied with less than total ™role °f women "> society                          the war.                                   
ban of reading news by has always been a sensitive issue in the                                                              
women. country which has sparked rebellion                                                                                   
The eight wpmen newscasters of ag^nsl; die government,                                                                       
the TV were transferred to other The recent decision of banning                                                              
branches of the TV. They can appear in reading news on TV by women is a pre-                                                 
other programs. ventive measure to avoid further prob-                                                                       
Women newscasters of radio con- lems for a government which is facing                                                        
tinued to read the news. The two lead- enormous problems at the moment;                                                      
                                           AFGHANews Vol 8, No 16, August 15,1992, page ©
Saudis to boost Kabul mass communications
    Saudi Arabia has agreed to provide funds for rebuilding Afghan Radio and TV, stated Mohammad                   Seddique
Chakari, the minister of culture and Information of Afghanistan, after returning from a ten-day official visit to the kingdom.
    Chakari visited Saudi Arabia at invitation of Shaikh Ali Shayer, the Saudi minister of information, from July 14 to 24.
    Afghan Television,
Radio and the government press are facing tremendous problems due to jack of equipment. The TV and radio facilities need to be renewed and modernized. Due to overuse of its broadcasting equipment, Afghan radio is not audible in many provinces. The state printing house suffered losses in fighting during the first days of the Mujahideen's victory.
    King Fahd has agreed to provide $33 million for buying equipment for TV, Radio, Afghan Films and the government press.
    A Saudi delegation will visit Kabul to assess the needs of the information ministry, which will be followed by the visit of an Afghan delegation to finalize an agreement on cultural exchange.
    Aziz Ary afar, the head of the military section of TV, Mr. Karwani, the financial and administrative head, and Enayatullah Khalil, the head of the Arabic section of TV and Radio, accompanied Chakari in his visit
    The Afghan delegation visited Riyadh, Mecca, Medina, Jeddah and Abha, and talked to Saudi ulema and some Afghans living in that country. They also answered questions raised about the policies of the Islamic government         t ,
    The minister of information and culture said: "Ulema in Saudi Arabia asked many questions about the Islamic nature of the government in Kabul. The propaganda war waged by Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar and supporters of Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Amir of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan, and negative, politically motivated media re-
 ports sent by some Arab journalists had a negative affect on the views of people in' Saudi Arabia about the Islamic government"
     But Chakari said that the government of Saudi Arabia expressed full support to Islamic government.
                  Her said the news of rocket attacks on Kabul was a source of wary for the Afghan community living in Saudi Arabia. Since telephone communication between Saudi Arabia and Afghanistan is extremely difficult, Afghans get the news of developments in their country through Western media, and hear the rumors spread by the opponents of the Islamic government, which are extremely negative, he said.
       Chakari had earlier paid an official visit to Pakistan to seek Islamabad’s support in cultural activities. The government, of Pakistan agreed to provide TV programs fra Afghanistan and to repair the air-conditioning system of the TV archives.
     Pakistan donated paper and ink worth of about 100 million Afghanis for the Afghan state printing house. Islamabad also agreed to process .film fra Afghan Films in its Lahore studios free of charge for one year. The two sides agreed to open their news agencies in Kabul and Islamabad.
     Kabul agreed to allow distribution of the Wahdat newspaper, a Pakistani paper published in Pushtu, in Afghanistan.
     Chakari, 30. attended Abu Hanifa high school in Kabul. He studied at the Faculty of Islamic Law in Saudi Arabia and got his masters' degree in the same field from the University of Punjab, Pakistan.
     Chakari joined Jami'at Islami in 1975 when he was a student in Saudi Arabia. Chakari has visited America, UK, Australia, Turkey, Sudan, Egypt, Kuwait and Gulf States to speak fra die Mujahideen. He described his official visit to Saudi Arabia and Pakistan as successful.
     As a result of Gulbuddin’s attack, TV transmitters were damaged.
Unity on
Gulbuddin's
terrorism
                                 From page (4)
 bloody war.
     •      His attacks on civilians were meant to terrorize die population and incite them against the government.
     •      His attacks stopped Nawaz Sharif s visit to Kabul and President Rabbani's visits to Teheran and Islamabad.
     •      He targeted diplomatic missions to force the evacuation of foreign nationals and isolate the government internationally.
     •      These misdeeds are without parallel in modem politics. Though the prime nlinister and a deputy defense minister belonged to Hezb, the party launched calculated attacks on government installations and civilian targets. The Prime Minister's offices became an intelligence-gathering point and an outpost for guiding rockets onto targets inside the city.
     •      The government displayed remarkable restraint against the provocative actions by Hezb, and only used force when Hezb's actions exceeded all humane and moral limits. Such restraint was necessary to isolate Hezb and avoid misunderstanding between different sections ol the people on eth nic and regional lines.
     •The Hezb demand that Genera Dostum's fordbs be Withdrawn from Kabul is a pretext for waging war to. seize power. Gulbuddin enjoys the support of men like Tanai, Pakteen Watanjar and others who were diehart communists and NajibulLah's supporters. Dostum, on the other hand, helped the Mujahideen overthrow the communists.
     Contrary to Gulbuddin's claims the Khalqis have played a key role in directing Hezb attacks on Kabul. Moreover, Khalqi militiamen from Helmand guard Gulbuddin's family.
     Finally there is no guarantee that Hezb would behave in a civilized way if its demands were met
     The Leadership Council has approved the use of force against Hezb. The parties involved in the government should participate fully in the military campaign so that peace can be achieved in the shortest possible time.
     Only decisive action, endorsed by all the Mujahideen parties, can defeat Hezb in the shortest possible time and ensure the return of peace to Kabul.