 Vol 7, No 17
 September 1,1991
 One Soviet POW exchanged with 25 Mujahideen
     A Soviet POW was exchanged with 25 Mujahideen held by the Kabul regime on August 12 in Islamabad. The head of visiting Soviet delegation participated in the press conference organized on this occasion.
     The Soviet prisoner was Qurban Ali Tashrifev, 24, from Tajikistan. He was captured in 1984 in Toorghundi by the Mujahideen of Afzali front, affiliated to Jami'at Island Afghanistan.
     The 25 Mujahideen prisoners to be released by the Kabul regime belong to different areas of Afghanistan and are affiliated to different Mujahideen organizations.
     ICRC helped in establishing contacts between Jami'at and the Soviet authorities to arrange the exchange. So far it has brought 11 of the released prisoners to Peshawar by its plane. The remaining prisoners are expected be released soon. This was the first time that the Mujahideen benefitted from ICRC services in exchange of prisoners.
     Qurban was handed over to his father who was flown from Moscow to Islamabad to receive his son after 7 years of captivity. Presence of Qurban's father in Islamabad to receive his son was part of the deal. When asked what he would do after returning home, Qurban said that the first thing he planned do was to get married.
 Islamabad rejects KGB's claim
     Pakistan has rejected the allegation by a KGB official that Islamabad has been trying to destabilize the Soviet Central Asian republics.
     A ranking KGB officer has accused Pakistan's secret services of infiltrating Islamic fundamentalist activists into Tajikistan.
     An official of the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan denounced the accusation, charging that such accusations were aimed at damaging efforts to find a solution to the Afghan issue.
Mujahideen accept UN peace program
     The Tripartite Conference cm Afghanistan, held in Islamabad, gave conditional support to the UN five-point plan for solution of the Afghan problem and demanded replacement of the Kabul regime with a representative .and Islamic government.
     The two-day conference was convened on July 28 to coordinate activities of the Mujahideen, Iran and Pakistan for finding a political solution to the Afghan issue.
     Iranian delegation in the conference was led by Dr. Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran and Pakistani delegation was headed by by Akram Zaki, the acting Foreign Minister of Pakistan. Most of the Mujahideen leaders also took part in the talks.
     Before opening of the conference, the number of seats for Hezb Wahdat party, was discussed. The two sides agreed on three seats for that party.
     Iran and Pakistan stressed the need for an adopting a consensus policy by the Mujahideen so that they could defend the Mujahideen stand in international forums. After thorough deliberations, the participants approved the UN five-point plan as a base for a political solution.
     They also demanded formation of an Islamic and representative government in Kabul to replace the illegal regime of Najibullah.
     Hezb Islami (Khalis), Harakat (Mohsini) and Ittihad Islami erf Prof. Sayyaf did not take part in die conference.
     The UN reaction to the Islamabad declaration was positive. This was the first time that Iran-based and Pakistan-based Mujahideen sat around a table with the two main supporters of Jehad, Iran and Pakistan.
     The declaration of the conference had a positive impact on the resolution adopted by the OIC in Istanbul, Turkey. Soviet Union reacted cautiously to the conference. A Soviet official said the conference was a step towards peace.
     A Kabul regime minister expressed anger over the convening of conference on the ground that it ignored Kabul. The criticism was directed against Iran rather than Pakistan and the Mujahideen. The second round of tripartite talks will he held in Tehran on August 28.
     In an attempt to find a political solution to the Afghan issue, a ranking Soviet delegation headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Nikolai Kazyrov held talks with Pakistani and Mujahideen leaders in Islamabad on August 11 and 12. The talks did not result in a significant breakthrough, but it was decided to continue negotiations few a solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
     Soviet delegation met with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. Both leaders expressed their desire for finding a political solution to Afghan problem.
     The Soviet delegation held formal talks with a delegation of the Mujahideen headed by Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi.
     The Mujahideen told the Soviet side that they were not ready to talk to the Kabul regime. The Soviet delegation suggested holding of indirect talks between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime with the UN mediation, but the Mujahideen did not accept the idea.
     Issues concerning POWs and delivery of Soviet arms to Kabul also came undo* discussion but no agree' ment was reached. The Soviet side regretted the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan. The two sides agreed to hold further talks in the future.
     This was the third meeting be' tween the Mujahideen and Soviets. The two previous rounds were held in Taif, Saudi Arabia, and Islamabad.
     The Soviet delegation flew to Tehran after Islamabad talks to hold discussion on the Afghan issue of the Iranian leaders and Mujahideen based in Tehran.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 17, September 1, 1991, page ©
IThe Battlefields
 Herat Province
   OPERATIONS ON AUGUST 6:
    •     The Mujahideen killed one enemy soldier west of Qala-i-Naw, Zindajan. Three Mujahideen sustained injuries in the attack.
    •     The Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers in Qala-i-Raig of Zindajan when they attacked them with heavy weapons.
    •One enemy soldiers was killed and three were injured close to Zindajan bridge. One Mujahid was wounded in the attack.
    •     One enemy tank and one truck were destroyed in Kham Makoo of Zindajan. Fighting began when the enemy launched attack on the Mujahideen. The enemy retreated after suffering heavy casualties.
   OPERATIONS ON AUGUST 7:
    •    The Mujahideen killed eight enemy soldiers in Qala-i-Ezat using mortars in the attack.
    •     Two enemy soldiers were killed and three were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their position on the Zindajan bridge with heavy weapons.
    •     An enemy truck was destroyed and its occupants were killed when the Mujahideen attacked it west of Qala-i-Ezat
    •     The Mujahideen killed five enemy soldiers and wounded seven in Mahal-i-Khwaja Ha and Qala-i-Mulld.
   OPERATIONS ON AUGUST 8:
    •     The Mujahideen killed one enemy soldier west of Qala-i-Jamal using ground-to-ground rockets.
    •     Three enemy soldiers were killed and two were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their position in Qala-i-Mulki with 82 mm guns. Another enemy soldier was killed in Qala-i-Ezat
   OPERATIONS ON AUGUST 9:
    •     An enemy tank was destroyed and eight soldiers were killed by a land mine in Ishaq Solaiman area.
    • The Mujahideen repulsed an ene-
 my attack on Qala-i-Jamal of Zindajan. The enemy retreated after loosing an armored car. About 60 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. The report is silent about the Mujahideen's casualties.
    •    Two enemy soldiers were killed in Qala-i-Mulki Ha and an enemy truck was destroyed and five soldiers killed in Taraka of Zindajan.
                                               OPERATION ON AUGUST 11:
    The Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions west of Qala-i-Jamal as a result of which 21 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
   OPERATION ON AUGUST 10:
    The Mujahideen destroyed two enemy tanks, killed eight soldiers and wounded four in Qala-i-Jamal of Zindajan.
   OPERATIONS ON AUGUST 12:
    •     One enemy tank was destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded when the Mujahideen attacked an enemy base in Zindajan with ground-to-ground rockets.
    •    Three enemy soldiers were killed and five were wounded when the Mujahideen attacked their position in Qala-i-Mulki with mortar.
    •     In Qala-i-Raig, the Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and wounded two.
                                                                                              OPERATION ON AUGUST 13:
    Two enemy soldiers were killed and four were wounded by the Mujahideen in Zindajan.
 Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen attacked the Kabul regime troops stationed in Juma Bazar of Shereen Tagab District on August 17 killing and wounding at least 75 enemy troops and seized one 122 mm gun, two mortars, nine P.K. ma-chineguns, 150 Kalashnikov rifles, two trucks and some ammunition.
    Two Mujahideen were killed and eight sustained injuries in the attack.
    The Kabul regime sent fresh troops
to Shereen Tagab.
    The Mujahideen resumed their attacks on Juma Bazar on August 19 destroying eight security post. Rasool-i-Sabz, an important militia commander, was wounded by the Mujahideen and many other militiamen were either killed or wounded.
    On August 20, the Kabul regime planes bombed residential areas of Almar sub-District destroying many houses.
    On August 21, one militia commander was killed and another was wounded. Three Mujahideen were killed and 13 were wounded. Fighting continued when this report was filed.
Takhar Province
    The Kabul regime jets bombed Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar on August 2 and 3. Bombs, dropped on the first day, missed their targets.
    On the second day, a school, the Islamic Bank and several houses close to the center of the city were hit killing one woman and injuring eight.
    Regime jets also bombed Worsaj but the bombs landed far from residen-tial areas causing no casualties.
Kandahar Province
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed eight enemy soldiers and destroyed one truck in Shekarpoor area of the city of Kandahar on August 15. Two Mujahideen were killed in the attack.
    •    The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers and destroyed one truck when they attacked the security posts of the city. Six armed soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen.
    •    The Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Kotal-i-Baba area with heavy rockets and mortars on August 8. The enemy suffered heavy casualties. One Mujahid was also killed in the attack.
    •    Hie Mujahideen attacked a col umn of the enemy tanks outside the city of Kandahar on August 12, forcing it to retreat The enemy's casualties woe not available. Four Mujahideen woe killed and two were wounded.
    •    The Mujahideen attacked a jeep belonging to KHAD close to the Kandahar Wool Factory on August 2 killing three and wounding two KHAD officials.
    •    The Mujahideen of Mullah Naqibullah who had disguised themselves as enemy soldiers entered an enemy post in Kariz Bazar on August 11 killing 11 enemy soldiers and seizing three Kalashnikov rifles, one RPG-7
            To page (3)
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Soaring prices, floods retards CBR's reconstuction work
     Engineer Kamaluddin, the Executive Director of Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR), a private non-profit organization, says the soaring prices of construction materials in Afghanistan and floods at beginning of the year have slowed down the pace of reconstruction projects started by his organization.
     CBR planned to build three clinics in Panjshir. One of the clinics has been almost completed in Bazatak. Another clinic which was under construction in Khench was washed by floods forcing CBR to change its site to Safidchir. Work on this clinic has just begun.
     Work oh Paryan clinic started when two brothers in Kawjan village gave a piece of their agriculture land for the clinic. Due to floods and high water in the Panjshir River, the road was cut in several places, making it difficult to transport cements and other construction materials for several months during the spring. This also delayed construction of the clinics.
     Kamaluddin, who has just returned after a two-month trip to northeast Afghanistan, said that the price of cement has increased five times in one year. A 50-kilogram bag of Portland Cement sells for 4,500 Afghanis while it sold for only 1,000 one year ago.
     He said construction work on three irrigation canals, one workshop and a bridge in Panjshir has been stopped due to lack of funds. These projects were financed by the Supervisory Council.
     CBR is working on three clinics in the north. One clinic in Kalafgan sub-District has been almost completed. Another, in Keshm, is half-finished. Construction of the Eshkamesh clinic is still in its early stages.
     Kamaluddin said CBR is facing problems getting bricks. The quality of bricks produced in Taliqan is low, and CBR failed to receive the bricks it had ordered from Khanabad due to fighting. Kamaluddin said each brick brought to the construction site costs 50 Afghanis.
     The head of CBR said one of the problems he and other relief organizations are facing is the high prices of construction material. The construction cost of clinics, estimated one year ago, are far below the current costs. This problem compelled representatives of CBR, Afghanaid, VITA and the Supervisory Council to discuss the issue in a joint meeting in Taliqan. They fixed the current price of materials to
 report to the donor organizations. They also decided to cooperate in lending equipment, material and services to each other. They agreed not to compete with each other in paying higher prices for the construction material. They also decided to hold monthly meetings to coordinate their work and avoid duplication.
     Kamaluddin had gone to the North to negotiate with the SC about getting some of the bulldozers and other construction equipments captured in Khwaja Ghar. Some of this equipment is in working order, but some needs to be repaired. Use of this equipment will increase the speed of road construction and repair in the area.
     The head of CBR said construction of two new clinics, one in Chal and another in Bangi, Takhar Province, will begin soon. All the clinics built by CBR are funded by World Health Organization (WHO). WHO has agreed to fund construction of 17 clinics in northeast Afghanistan.
  Land mines still kill people in Panjshir
      The Agriculture Committee of the Supervisory Council has lost one of its tractors in a mine explosion in Panjshir. The tractor was plowing an abandoned Soviet heliport when it hit a land mine. The driver of the tractor sustained minor injuries.
      A Panjshiri child has been killed by an unexploded ammunitioa The child was playing with the bomb when it exploded and killed him. There are thousands of unexploded shells scattered all over the Panjshir Valley. In a separate incident, two boys were killed by a mine explosion in the mountains near Rukha. They were collecting wild mushrooms from an area which was used by the Soviets as a mountain-top post until 1988. UN mine clearing operarions have mx reached the valley yeL>
 News from Battlefields
                                           From page (2)
 rocket launcher and one pistol.
    • Eleven soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Mard Qala on August 17. They brought with them eleven Kalashnikov rifles and one rocket launcher.
    •The Mujahideen of Mullah Naqibullah killed three KHAD personnel and wounded three, including one officer, and destroyed their jeep in Eidgah gate on August 10.
 Ghore Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami’at under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed 12 enemy soldiers and captured four in Chekhcharan, the provincial capital, on August 18. Eight Mujahideen were killed and 15 were wounded in the attack.
    •The Mujahideen clashed with the enemy forces in lower part of Chekhcharan on August 8 as a result of which 12 enemy soldiers were killec and many were wounded. Four Mujahideen lost their lives in the attack.
    •Six Mujahideen were killed anc 18 were wounded by land mines when they launched an attack on the enemy post in Daulatyar area on August 2.
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mawlawi Abdul Wahid of Baghran attacked Shahrak District on August 17. They destroyed six security posts and inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy. The Mujahideen captured 15 enemy sol diers. Eight Mujahideen were wounded and two were killed in the attack.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page
  Editorial
 Will Gorby revise his Afghan policy?
     The failure of coup against Gorbachev is an important event which will have tremendous effect on the foreign and domestic policies of USSR. The incident displayed the political awareness of people in that country. The return of Gorbachev will lead to the weakening of the Soviet Communist Party, the Red Army and KGB. This is not only a good news for the Soviet people but for those who have been suffering from the aggressive policies of Kremlin.
     The episode in Moscow will definitely affect the USSR's Afghan policy because the three institutions involved in the coup had played an active role in 1979's invasion of Afghanistan and are still advocating preservation of the communist regime in power.
     The victory of . radicals would have resulted in suppression of limited freedom the Soviet people have gained and would have helped dictators like Najib whose survival is tied to the massive military and economic aid they receive from Moscow.
     The people of Afghanistan have reservations about Gorbachev's intention to revise Soviet Afghan policy. He has been talking about bleeding wound of Afghanistan since 1986, but his denunciations of the invasion did result in ending Soviet interference in support of the illegal regime of Najibullah.
     Gorbachev even have gone one step farther from its predecessors in introduc don of weapons of mass destruction in Afghanistan. This 'man of peace' gave SCUD missiles to the Kabul regime in 1989, increased Soviet military and economic assistance to Najib, and re-introduced Soviet advisors to support the Kabul regime in its war against the Mujahideen. This way, he prevented Afghans from exercising their right of self-determination. He tried to achieve the objective of the 1979's invasion - imposition of a communist regime on the people of Afghanistan.
     Gorbachev did all this without being blamed far continuation of bloodshed in Afghanistan. The concession he gave to West in Eastern Europe, Jewish immigration issue and Middle-East conflict earned him the Nobel Peace Prize and admiration of western leaders.
     Some people believed that pressure by radical elements in Soviet Union prevented Gorbachev from adopting a reconciliatory policy on the Afghan issue. If that is the only reason for adoption of hard-line policy on Afghanistan, the radical's coup crash must be a good news because it has removed a major obstacle from the way achieving peace.
     The victory of the Soviet people on radicals is perceived as an exercise of the right people to choose their leaders. Now that Gorbachev has returned to power by the people's will, not through the communist party, he has to respect the will of Afghan people to choose their own leaders and type of government they wish.
     The emergence Boris Yaltsin as a popular and democraticleader can have a positive effect on Soviet Afghan policy. He had opposed sending arms to the Kabul regime and had expressed desire to meet with the Mujahideen leaders to discuss with them the fate of Soviet POWs and other issues.
     The Mujahideen should exploit new climate created by the recent events in Moscow. They should exert maximum military pressure on the regime and speed up efforts to evolve a consensus formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
     The military pressure will expose die weaknesses of the Kabul regime and passes a message to Soviet leaders that investment on a rootless band of communists in a neighboring country is not helping peace in the southern borders of their country.
     A consensus formula for a political solution will provide an alternative to the Kabul regime and would leave no pretext for continued middling of Soviets in Afghanistan in support of the communists.
                                                 Tin Mosques and Ghantowns
                                               A History of Afghan Cameldrivers in Australia By: Christine Stevens
 Oxford University Press 1989. P. 372 Book Review by Laila Saikal Tin Mosques and Ghantowns by Christine Stevens is a comprehensive chronology of the history of early Muslims in Australia. It goes into much more detail than either May Schinasi's 1980 Afghanistan Council paper, or Michael Cigler's 1986 book The Afghans in Australia. The first wave of Muslims migration began in 1860 when three Afghans were enlisted to accompany the camels for the Bourke and Wills expedition. As the British colony was stretching further across inland Australia, camels and their Afghan handlers became instrumental in the development of services and cartage of necessities to isolated settlements in Australia's interior.
    Stevens sheds light on the spiritual, physical and social hardships which these pioneering men endured. She provides a rare alternative to the usual Ausralian history bodes where the contribution of Afghans to the development of inland Australia is either underplayed or inaccurately portrayed. Strength is given to this fascinating book by the author's exhaustive research. Stevens has traced existing descendants of the original cameleers and utilized further information from local amateur historians together with newspaper clippings, letters and photography, giving authenticity to the bode.
    The cameleers often came to the Austalian colony on a three year contact basis. They formed insular communities called Ghantowns which could be likened to ghettos. These settlements were isolated from the rest of the outback community. The Afghans were seen "barbaric, immoral, pagan and unclean” by most Europeans and aboriginals. Consequently, the early Australian marriages with Afghans began with aboriginal women and half-castes or European women living "marginal lives." The religious practices bound the Afghans into their tightly-knit Ghantown communities. The adherence to prayer and their wearing of long clothes with turbans, their
                                                & To page (7)
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Cmdr. Arshad Farid
milt
 V m'lk Wlti
     Abdul Wahab, I mown as Arshad ''arid, is one of the three influential j commanders of i Jami'at' Islami in Samangan               I
 *rovince. He leads I around 2,000 armed! Mujahideen. He has been working close-
 y with the Supervisory 1 Council -headed by Ahmad Shah Masood.
     Samangan is a strategically important province through which die Salang highway passes. This makes Samangan the target of military and subversive activities of the regime.
     In 1980, Arshad Farid returned to Samangan, after a two-year stay in Peshawar, bringing with him 18 Kalashnikov rifles and one RPG-7 rocket launcher. The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Mawlawi Zahir had established their base in Chaghat Mountain. He was appointed the head of the financial committee of the Mujahideen.
     After a while, the Mujahideen in Samangan development differences among themselves. Jami'at fell prey to personnel difference between its commanders. Arshad Farid encouraged Zabihullah of Mazar to intervene and solve their differences. Zabihullah tried but failed to unite Jami'at commandos in Samangan.
     In 1983 Arshad wait to Panjshir to meet Ahmad Shah Masood. Commander Zabihullah also had gone to the valley to meet Masood. Farid attended a military training class, especially organized for Commander Zabihullah and his men. Masood, Zabihullah and Farid discussed the situation in Samangan and decided that Zabihullah and Farid should coordinate their activities in bringing unity among die Mujahideen. The sudden death of Commander Zabihullah was a blow to the efforts aimed at uniting the Mujahideen.
      Farid decided to keep away from the differences among the Mujahideen and to concentrate on fighting against the regime and Soviets. The ordinary people started to admire him for this decision. The Mujahideen from other parties started to cooperate with him in fighting against the Soviets. He had about 200 armed Mujahideen at that time.
      Later, he tried to bring
 Commander Mawlawi Zahir and Masood closer together. Mawlawi Zahir met with Masood in Takhar and they decided that   Arshad  Farid,
 Commander Saifullah and    Mawlawi  Zahir
 would work together in Samangan.
    Farid attended the
 the Supervisory Farkhar, Takhar
 fifth . meeting of Council, held in Province.
     He was in the last year of Abu Hanifa Madrasa when the communist coup of 1978 took place. He came un-da increasing pressure from the authorities of school to support the government. He migrated to Peshawar one month after the coup.
     He stayed in Peshawar for two years before returning to Samangan. During his stay in Pakistan, he attended a military class, taught by a South African Muslim, Mohammad Haroon. Haroon had undergone military training in East Germany as a member of ANC. He later converted to Islam and left his country to avoid revenge by ANC. He contacted Jami'at Islami and offered his services for Jehad. About 50 young Mujahideen, including Commander Masood, became his students. He taught them basic military tactics and the essence of urban warfare. Arshad describes these classes as very useful.
     Farid met with Commander Zabihullah of Mazar and Commander Masood of Panjshir in Peshawar and established friendly ties with them.
     Arshad had joined the Islamic movement in the second year of Abu Hanifa school in Kabul. He became the head of the resistance cell in his class before the communist of coup April.
     He had started his primary education in the mosque of his village and then attended Dalkhaky school in Harzrart-i-Sultan. He was a hard working student who got excellent grades.
     Farid was bom 37 years ago in an Dari speaking Arab family in Kokjer village, Hazrat-i-Sultan sub-DistricL His father, Abdul Wahid, was a fanner who worked on his own land. Like other people they also kept a flock of sheep and spent most part of the year in the desert and mountain tendering their sheep. Such a semi-nomadic way of life has trained the people of Samangan as good fighters.
     He is married.
 m|PrOf. Burhanuddin Rabbani. act-[ing Foreign Minister A1G and the leader of Jami'at Islami, met with Crown Prince Abdullah on August 18 ■Rleddah. Both sides discussed dif-H|nt aspects of Afghan issues and] [Afghan refugees problems. Saudi Crown prince promised the support I of the Kingdom for the Afghan [Mujahideen,
     Dr. MuqM R^^tzai was seriously wounded by an unknown gunman in Peshawar on August 13. He worked for a US-funded education program that opened schools and provided textbooks frrsdwols in the
   Pjftahmanzai, 45, is the .deputy | jpgjl^tebf the local bmch of the Bmv«stty'' of Nebraska a^Omalml fldticatkjn Sector Support Projects**
                                                                                                                  ••• |
     At least 30 people were killed by
 rockets near the Defence Ministry ini Kabul on-August 1$.              I
 BBMosl of the casualties occurred] I at a bus stop about one kilometer I from the Defence             pfl
                                                                                                                     Ihose killed were
 Ituming from work. Tl^]||||||pni<3 [has . blamed fhe MuiMiiiilliil-^&j [attack.
 I                •••            1
                                                                                                    Najibullah regime has banned Azadi. 3 fortnightly paper published!
 I in Kabul, and has imprisoned its editor for publishing a Hikmatyar's statement which asked the array to raise against the regime. Ghulam Sakhi fehairat, die editor of Azadi, is a I member of Khalq faction. He had ear-1 tier published a letter from Dastagir Panjshiri. a communist leader now; serving jail terms n ci es of in| volvement in Tanai coup, and a statement by Keshtmand, the framer Prime Minister of the regime, anl
Miffiyat,& paper ■■■■ha^cm
                                                                                                                                                            I in |
                                                                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                           MHHI Union in
                                                                                                           Badakhshan Province.
 Eshkahsim,
    news by a Western journalist, he refined k as a propaganda ploy of the Mqfafotdoi^ '                       r-
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page
By: Prof. Khalilullah Khalili
                  lit       •
         Part (2)
    Our soldiers at Dehdadi began to prepare for battle. In the next three days, our forces skirmished with the Russian troops. Mirza Mohammad Qasim Khan and Da Mulla Arab joined the Dehdadi forces too, accompanied by about 1000 horsemen. In Dehdadi, there were some crates of weapons brought from Italy by King Amanullah years before. Nobody knew how to assemble them. The guns made by Kabul factories were in poor condition and lacked ammunition.
    Moreover our gunners did not want to fire toward the Holy Shrine of Hazrat-i-AIi. In the very first days of the crisis, most of the civilians of Mazar had fled the city. The stories of the Russian atrocities brought by the civilians to Dehdadi angered us and we wanted to fight the Russians. Ghulam Nabi Khan could no longer justify his attack. Everybody knew that he was brought and helped by the Soviet soldiers. According to the people who came from Mazar-i-Sharif, only 100 Afghans had come along with Ghulam Nabi from the Soviet Union. The rest, including officers, mechanics, gunners and foot soldiers were all Russian.The commander of the operation was a Russian who was called by an Afghan name, Ragheb. They said he was Turkish but the color of his eyes, hair and skin, and the language that he spoke showed that he was a Russian. To deceive the people, he was taken to the great mosque of Mazar to offer Juma (Friday) prayers. He could not pray at all; instead he imitated others who were praying in the mosque. People realized that Ghulam Nabi had no power. He was used as a rubber stamp to seal the decisions made by the Russians. The lives and properties of the people of Mazar were in danger. Suspicions led to house searches and the arrest and killing of young people. People in the city reported that the Soviets took their dead and wounded to the border at night to be sent to the Soviet Union.
      Jehad continued day and night Sher Abad, Kala i-Hajiri and Takhta Pul separated our forces from the Russian troops. Our soldiers could not attack the enemy base because it was located where the Shrine of Hazrat-i-Ali was. The other obstacle was the presence of the women and children still living in the city. We did not want to endanger their lives.
    But the Russian artillery pounded the Mujahideen's positions mercilessly and destroyed their villages. Hundreds of students from Madrasas (religious schools) wore white shrouds and fought against the Soviet invaders in the first line of battle. (Wearing a shroud is a symbolic preparation far martyrdom. This is practiced by some dedicated Muslims in Jehad fought against non-believers.) Dah Mullah-i-Arab had said: " In Jehad for religion and country, the true sons of Islam kill the enemy or are killed by their enemies".
    Despite the superiority of the enemy in training and heavy weapons, the Mujahideen were successful in irregular warfare. They launched night raids. Students of the religious schools who wore shrouds and fought in the first line suffered most of the casualties, but the number of their volunteers increased each day.
 Attempt to liberate Mazar-i-Sharif
    Scattered fighting lasted for about three weeks. Khalifa of Qezel Ayak sent two thousand Turkman armed ridos undo the command of his younger brother. Some of them were refugees who had come to Afghanistan when their land was occupied years before by the Russians. Their weapons were Russian rifles but their ammunition was not enough even for two or three operations. Some of them had hand grenades which they had brought from the Soviet Union.
    The arrival of the Turkman Mujahideen and our repeated attacks worried the enemy. The enemy had been delayed in Mazar longer than they had expected. The enemy’s calculation that Dehdadi would fall soon after the capture of Mazar had proved wrong. Ghulam Nabi had said that resistance by "the turbaned and baggy-clothed men" (a reference to the Mujahideen irregulars) would not last long. But these people stopped his advance for days and nights on end with strength of their faith. The Soviets were becoming worried because a long stay in Afghanistan would have exposed their designs to the world.
     More important. King Habibullah was still fighting. The Soviets wanted to capture Dehdadi quickly and attack Kabul through Bamyan. Since Habibullah's soldiers were holding out
 in Kandahar against Amanullah Khan and in Paktia against Nadir Khan, it wa£ important that the Russians act quickly. The Soviets considered Habibullah Khan as their enemy because he had indicated support for Amir Alam Khan, the king of Bukhara. Moreover they were not sure Nadir Khan (King Zahir's father) would win his campaign.
    Mujahideen attacked Mazar from three directions. The firsTgroup of our riders reached Baghi-i-Hdzur, a garden inside the city of Mazar, at dawn. Suddenly the battlefield situation changed. Five Russian aircraft, flying from Termez, started to attack the rear of our forces. The enemy artillery also attacked our soldiers. Fighting continued all day. Soviet planes bombed the villages and our attacking troops 12 times. The ground had no cover and the Mujahideen had no anti-aircraft weapons. About 7,000 people were killed or wounded in one day. Dehdadi fell to the enemy after heavy bombing.
    Sher Ali Khan retreated to Balkh and Ghulam Sediq Khan to Tashqurghan. I accompanied the later. That night, a group of our men attacked the enemy from the direction of Tashqurghan but achieved no victory. The Soviets entered the city of Mazar and the Mujahideen retreated to Tashqurghan. Soviet planes continue to bomb them all along the way.
    Almost all the people, including the women, participated in the battle for Mazar. The Russian troops, after capturing the city, hanged, shot hacked and burnt to death hundreds of people
 Tashqurghan
    While preparing ourselves and mobilizing the people to defend Tashqurghan, we received a message from Kabul asking me to return to the capital. This was our first official message from Kabul. I was instructed to go to Kabul with all the documents regarding the situation. The central government in Kabul was not aware of the fall of Mazar and Dehdadi. In consultation with Mirza Mohammad Qasim Khan and Da Mullah Arab, I wrote a detailed report of the events. Unfortunately the documents received from Ghulam Nabi Khan were left in Dehdadi. While preparing to leave for Kabul, the Soviet planes appeared in the sky and airdropped leaflets signed by Ghulam Nabi Khan. They read .as follows:
                                         AFGHANews Vol 7, No 17, September 1,1991, page 0
 "Based on King Amanullah Khan's order and with the help of my friends, I tave captured Mazar city. Mirza Qasim, Sher Ali, Da Mullah Arab, Khalifa Qezel Ayak and Khalilullah (the writer) who fought against us for their own personal interests, have been defeated by the forces of our infantry and aerial bombardments. They are now in hiding. I ask you, the brave Afghan nation, to capture and bring them to us so that they are punished. You will be rewarded.”
     The word "bombardment" used in the leaflets became powerful evidence for Soviet involvement when it reached the foreign ministry in Kabul.
     I left for Kabul via Abdan-i- Mir Alam and Kunduz, and with a lot difficulties reached Khanabad, the center of Qataghan. Two days after my arrival, die Russian planes bombed Khanabad city and killed many innocent civilians.
 abstinence from alcohol and haram foods, the foreign language spoken and unusual sexual segregation were just some of the factors building barriers between the Afghans and non-Afghans. Photographs of the rugged Ghantown dwellings, tin and mud mosques with thatched roofs with the nearby ablution pods, the graveryards. . . all draw the reader into this unique period of Australian history. Islam is clearly seen to be an integral part of these early Afghans' daily lives. Stevens has described the five pillars of Islam and how they were practised in the outback by these early founders of Islam in Australia. Rustic bush mosques sprang up wherever Afghans settled:
      Fasting was adhered to strictly, even those who could not afford the time off work "continued to travel with camel strings across the burning outback," Islam was practised despite hardship and religious discrimination. One instance cited by Stevens was when Afghans were making wudu (ablution) in a pond and an outraged European shot and killed one of them for "washing their feet in drinking water."
     Unfortunately, some of the aspects of the book pertaining to Islam are inaccurate, for instance Stevens has referred to the Afghans as "Muhammadans" rather than as Muslims. It has also been assumed, in some instances, that Afghan traditions and Islamic traditions are one and the same, when in fact this is not always the case.
     Dear Sin
     Thank you for sending your publication regularly. AFGHANews is very useful for our committee to carry on its work of information in Belgium about the Afghan cause.
     Daniel Soil
     Comit6 Afghanistan Belgique
     Bruxelles - Belgium
     To the editors: ASSALAMU ALAVKUM!
     AFGHANews provides an unusually objective view of events in Afghanistan. On a subject where fair-minded analysis and description are at a high premium, AFGHANews provides both.
     The reports of Engineer Esliaq have been particularly noteworthy for their detail and accessibility.
     For my part, I would like to thank the staff of AFGHANews and the Jami’at Political Office for helping me to gather material for my forthcoming book. Holy Blood: An Inside View of the Afghan War.
     Is it true that Commander Masood has dissolved the central units of his forces, as suggested in the profile of commander Mohammad Daud Zalali, Page 6 of the April 15, 1991 edition, Vol 7, No 8?
     Paul Overby
     Portland, Oregon - USA
     Dear Sir:
     I thought your editorial about the need for a balanced and responsible approach for a political settlement was very thoughtful.
     I am writing to add some information to your report about the economic situation in Kabul (July 15, 1991). A German journalist reported a situation of hyperinflation, where people have to cany huge sacks of currency. International statistics can explain this problem.
     Because Afghanistan is a member of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), based in Washington, it must report statistics of its monetary policy. These data, including the amount of currency in circulation at the end of each Afghan year, are published in the IMFs International Financial Statistics. The most recent data are from the end of 1368 (March 1990),
     These data show the following. When the Communists took power in
 1978 (end of 1356), there were Afs.
 17.8  billion in circulation. About the time Najib announced the policy of "national reconciliation" (the end of 1365), there were Afs. 71.4 billion in circulation. This means that the average continuous rate of growth of the currency supply was 15.4 percent per year. This is high, considering that production decreased because of land reform, war, and emigration, but it is not extraordinary for a country at war without a stable government
     During the first year of "national reconciliation,” however, the amount of currency in circulation increased to Afs. 1125 billion, an increase of 57.6 percent in a single year. By the end of 1368 (Idarch 1990), the amount of Afghan currency was Afs. 222.7 bil-lion. In three years the regime had more than tripled the amount of Afghanis 1m circulation. The continuous rate of growth of the currency was
 37.9  percent per year. More than two thirds of all the currency in Afghanistan had been printed' since March 1987 (Nawruz 1366).
     The reason is obvious. National Reconciliation was the regime's response to the decision by the Soviets to withdraw their troops. Instead of relying on foreign troops, they would have to rely on foreign material aid and their own resources. The number of their supporters did not increase. But because they controlled the government they had one decisive advantage over the Mujahideen -- they could" print money. They did not have to tax people, engage in smuggling, or even wait for the planes to arrive from the USSR (except for the planes with containers of banknotes, since Afghan banknotes are printed in the Soviet Union). They could raise the wages of the soldiers and civil servants and pay off some tribal leaders and militia commanders.
     You have reported the results in in your paper without making the connection. Militia commanders such as Sayyed Kayan and Rashid Dustam have become increasingly active and important to the regime's military activities. These are die groups who are receiving many "containers" of currency.
     Any future government of Afghanistan will have to repair not only the roads, bridges, schools and hospitals, but also the country's curren-
                 To page (8)
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 17, September 1,1991, page ©
Aerial raids kill, injure 400 people in northeast region
     The Kabul regime's planes heavily bombed the city of Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, killing 50 and injuring more than 100 civilians, mainly women and children, on 16 August, Hindukush News Agency reported.
     Rockets and bombs hit the center of the city causing destruction of many houses shops and office buildings. All members of two families were among those killed in the air raid which began shortly after sunrise and continued for four hours. Bombing still continued when this report was filed.
     Bombing of the areas under control of the Supervisory Council has increased recently. The Kabul regime jets have recently bombed Zebak, Eshkashim, Rustaq, Khwaja Ghar, Keshm, Taliqan, Faizabad environs, Salang and Ghorband causing heavy casualties and material losses to the people. So far, more than 100 people have died and more 300 have been wounded in these bombardments.
     The Mujahideen have requested for medicine and surgical equipment to treat the wounded.
     According a Council source, the Kabul regime dropped cluster bombs and and bombs weighing 1000 kilo-
 gram on civilian targets. Cluster bombs are used to kill people and heavy bombs to destroy their houses and fields.
     The source report that the Kabul regime has moved two squadrons of its Su-22 and MiG-21 bombers to Mazar air base to bomb the areas controlled by the Council.
     Ahmad Shah Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, has said that the Kabul regime wanted to avenge its recent defeats in the north by bombing the civilian targets. They also want to prevent the Mujahideen from launching further attacks against the military targets of the regime, he added.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the command of Sayyed Najmuddin shot down a Su-22 jet of the regime in Jurm District, Badakhshan Province, on August 16. The Mujahideen captured the pilot of the bomber who ejected by a parachute after his plane was shot down.
     The captured pilot. Colonel Abdul Matin son of Abdul Hamid, a residence of Jurm District, has admitted flying 300 bombing sorties against the areas of the Council.
Aid from Moscow keeps Kabul regime in power
    Komsomolskaya Pravda, a Soviet newspaper, writes that the problem of Afghanistan has assumed the form of a war between democrats and conservatives in the USSR.
    The paper says Najib is kept in power by financial and military assistance from the Soviet Union. Moscow is afraid that if the opponents of the Kabul regime take power in Afghanistan, they will demand war reparations from Soviet Union, which could amount to billions of dollars. If we believe in the current changes in the Soviet Union, we should pay for these war damages, the paper writes.
    The paper says that the opponents of the Kabul regime might have gathered evidence to implicate the Soviet Union in war crimes committed during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
    The paper says Afghan experts in the USSR want Najib to remain in power, but acknowledges that he does not have a clean record. He was the head of KHAD during Karmal's rule and the people of Afghanistan hold KHAD responsible for the killing of thousands of people. But Najib's sup-
 porters in Moscow believe that Najib can be blamed only for part of these killings.
     The paper believes that the three sections of the armed forces of the regime — army, police and KHAD — are kept under three ministries to minimize the danger of revolt against the regime. If one section opposes the government the other could be used to crush it. Fa-example, the Tanai coup was crushed by KHAD.__________________________
 Letter from Soviet jail
     A Muslim prisoner in Soviet Tajikistan has asked the Mujahideen to demand his release in return for the release of Soviet POWs whom they hold.
     In a letter to the July issue of Al-Eslah, an Arabic weekly magazine published in the UAE, Dolatov Abdul Hamid wrote that he was involved in fighting against the Soviets in Afghanistan along with the Mujahideen. On the way home, he was captured by Soviet border guards and now is kept in a political prison in Birma, Tajikistan. He advises the Mujahideen to continue their armed struggle against the communists.
                                                       From page (7)
 cy. This will also require the assistance of the international community, including the IMF.
    Barnett R. Rubin Associate Professor Columbia University New York-U.S.A.
    Dear Sin
    AFGHANews is a credible paper which is taken seriously by the political circles here.
    Soviets express worry that the Mujahideen's victory would destabilize the Central Asian Republics bordering Afghanistan. What is the policy of the Mujahideen towards the Central Asian Republics?
    The people also ask questions about the type of Islamic government that the Mujahideen want to establish in Afghanistan. There are many models in the world. To which model would the Mujahideen's government be close?
    I hope to read about these two topics in the coming issue of your esteemed paper, AFGHANews.
    Tamim Tayeb Utrecht -Holland.
Regime fires 1,500 SCUDs
    The Kabul regime has fired 1500 SCUD missiles against the Mujahideen in the past two years. Iraq fired 68 missiles against Saudi Arabia and Israel during the Gulf war.
    Najib has fired 20 times more SCUDs against his own people than Saddam launched against his enemies. Yet the world has not reacted to this heavy use of weapons of mass destruction against the villages of Afghanistan.
    While Iraq's SCUDs are being dismantled, the Soviets continue to deliver missiles to the Kabul regime. But there's no outcry from those who were so transfixed with horror when Iraq launched SCUDs against Tel Aviv.
 Help us publish AFGHANews!
                                          Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                           JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan
Vol 7, No 18                                       September 15,1991
                    US, USSR stop arms supply to Afghan sides
     The Foreign Minsters of US and USSR signed an agreement in Moscow on September 13 ending supply of arms to both sides of die Afghan conflict from the beginning of the next year. They asked other countries to do the same. The two sides have agreed to take weapons of mass destruction out of Afghanistan.
     Washington and Moscow expressed their support for a transitional period and formation of a neutral government that is capable to hold fair elections in the country.
     Agreement on a negative symmetry was welcomed by Kabul. While Najib has put up a brave face, he must be worried about his future because his survival depended on Soviet military and financial assistance.
     The Mujahideen leaders' reaction varied from expression rtf worry to welcoming of accord. Hikmatyar welcomed it because in his opinion it brings Americans interference in Afghan affairs to an end. Shia leaders welcomed the move, perhaps, because they were not direct recipients of the US aid. Khalis and Mujaddidi called it an unjust agreement because the Kabul had more weapons than the Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani expressed doubts about Soviet compliance to the agreement Commander Masood compared the agreement with the Geneva Accords which was. used against die Mujahideen. Supporters of Zahir Shah who are not involved in fighting welcomed the agreement between Moscow and Washington.
     Pakistan said arms cut must be part of an over all solution. The UN Secretary General welcomed the deal. Almost all sides believe that arms cut will not bring righting to an end. Some people express worry that the Kabul regime might try to buy weapons from India, North Korea and Syria with whom it has friendly relations.
in
causes
food shortages in Kabul
     The abortive coup in Moscow created shortages of food and fuel in Kabul which is dependent on Soviet economic assistance.                    ?
     It was not clear wether the decrease in shipment of food and fuel was caused by a political decision or uncertain situation in Moscow caused the delay.
     There are signs, however, that Soviet Union has not been able to deliver the amount of wheat it had promised to Kabul.
     Anwar Doost, the Food Minister of the Kabul regime has said that Kabul has receive only one third of die wheat the Soviet Union had promised to it
     The Kabul regime is afraid that shortages of food in Soviet Union and political tension in that country might result in distribution of food and fuel supplies to Kabul.
     Kozirov, the Foreign Minister of Russian Federation, has said that the level of economic assistance to Kabul and Havana should be reduced and military aid should be stopped.
     Shortages of fuel has made transportation of the available food difficult in the territory controlled by the Kabul regime.
     Predicting trouble in the coming winter, the Kabul regime has appealed to India, Bulgaria and Turkey for food assistance. India has promised provi-
 sion of 50,000 tons of wheat which are brought to Kabul by Soviet planes through Kazakhstan Republic.
    The food minister of the Kabul regime has disclosed that Kabul spent some of its food reserves last winter. He said an option for Afghanistan is to buy food from Iran.
    Kabul might be able to buy food from some other Countries including Iran, and some Central Asian republics, but they will sell the food on market price in return for hard currency which Kabul does not have.
    Fuel shortage in Kabul has reduced the number of flight of regime jets to bomb the Mujahideen position. According to an informed source fuel shortage reduced bombing missions of the regime planes by half.
    The people of Kabul are worried about coming winter and some people have already started storing food for winter. This has caused the food prices to go high. Najibullah regime has failed to deliver the monthly ration of food to its officials. The communiques issued on Radio Kabul say that the halt is temporary!
    UN workers in Eshkashim border town, Badakhshan Province, told Afghans that fuel shortage was also felt in Soviet Tajikistan after the hardliners' coup in Moscow,
Leaders oppose coup attempt
    Most of the Mujahideen parties and field commanders have expressed concern over the news of a possible coup in Kabul involving Hezb Islami Hikmatyar and some communist factions.
    According to reports from Kabul, Hezb is trying to stage a coup with the help of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the Khalqi leader who revolted against Najib one year ago, and some other factions of the ruling party.
    Prof. Sayyaf, Prof. Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani have opposed such a move. A communique of the Council of Commanders tamed such a move as a conspiracy against Jehad. Prof. Rabbani has madeit dear that Jami'at is opposed to a coup involving communist factions and will opposed it.
    Sometime ago, Jami'at had agreed to cooperate with Hezb in fighting against the regime. But that cooperation was oily in the battlefield. Jami’at has made it clear it will not take part in any secret plan in which the majority of theresistance groups arenot involved.
    Jami'at believes that an attempt by a single party to get power through a deal with some communist factions will lead Afghanistan to a disaster.
    Hezb has denied power-sharing deal with the communists but a spokesman of the party said Hikmatyar is supervising preparations for a final attack on Kabul.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
Battlefields
 Herat Province
 Operations On August 15:
    •     Four enemy soldiers were killed and four were wounded when the truck carrying them hit a landmine in Tanda Khan village of Obe District. Shamsak, a local militia commander, was among those killed in the incident.
    •     The Mujahideen launched an attack against the enemy in Qala-i-Jamal of Zindajan killing
 2 and wounding four soldiers. One truck was destroyed in the attack and two armed men were captured.
 Operation On August 17:
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed three enemy soldiers and wounded two in Adraskan District. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries in the attack. Operations On August 18:
    •     The Mujahideen destroyed one enemy tank and one truck, killed one soldier and wounded four in Qala-i-Mulki Ha of Zindajan.
    •     The Mujahideen killed 12 enemy soldiers belonging to Special Guard of the regime in Zindajan with heavy weapons.
    •     One enemy armored car was destroyed and several soldiers were killed or wounded by the Mujahideen rocket attack south of Zindajan.
    •     The Mujahideen fired rockets into the enemy base south of Zindajan killing rive soldiers and destroying one truck. Three militiamen defected to the Mujahideen.
 Operations On August 19:
     •One enemy soldier was killed and five were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their base in Taraka area of Zindajan.
     •The Mujahideen attacked the regime’s position in Qala-i-Mulki Ha area, killing two soldiers and wounding one.
     •Two soldiers were killed when
 the Mujahideen attacked the enemy bases in Qala-i-Raig of Zindajan with heavy weapons. One Mujahid sustained injuries.
 Operations On August 20:
    ■The Mujahideen killed three soldiers and injured one in Kariz area of Zindajan using heavy weapons.
    ■Nine enemy soldiers were killed and one truck was destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked their position in Taraka area of Zindajan using artillery. Operations On August 21:
    •The Mujahideen killed four enemy soldiers and injured one in Mahala-i-Gadaha using heavy weapons.
    •Three enemy soldiers were killed and one truck loaded with ammunition was destroyed when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the regime bases in Taraka of Zindajan. One Mujahid was wound.
 Operations On August 22:
    •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy position west of Zindajan killing ten soldiers and destroying an artillery piece.
    •Three soldiers were killed and two injured when the Mujahideen attacked their base in Mahala-i-Langar of Zindajan with heavy weapons.
    •Three enemy personnel were killed and two injured when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy position in Qala-i-Mulaki Ha of Zindajan.
     •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Siachal and Shurab areas of Gulran District, killing five, capturing 35 and injuring 5 militiamen , Commander Azizrullah Afzali reported. The Mujahideen seized 100 Kalashnikov rifles, two machineguns, two motorcycles and some of ammunition.
  Farah Province
     •The Mujahideen from Jami'at launched an attacked on Shindand District killing 45 enemy soldiers and capturing two PK machineguns and
 two RPG-7 rocket launchers on August 18.
 Kandahar Province
    •Eleven armed soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at close to the city of Kandahar on August 18.
    •An enemy jeep was destroyed by a mine planed by the Mujahideen in Shahr-i-Naw on August 20. All the occupants of the jeep were killed.
    •Two ammunition dumps of the enemy were set on fire when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the airport and Qishla-i-Jadid on August 29. In retaliation, the enemy jets bombed the Mujahideen position in Pajwaie District, destroying two motorcycles.
    ■The Mujahideen killed a high ranking regime officer and his bodyguard in Bazar-i-Kabul of Kandahar on August 22, Commander Naqibullah re ported. One Kalashnikov rifle and one pistol were seized by the Mujahideen.
 Helmand Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the enemy position in Gereshk District on August 15 capturing 35 soldiers. Fifteen Mujahideen were killed and 35 sustained injuries in this operation, Commander Dad Mohammad reported.
    •Two security posts were captured, three tanks were destroyed and a num ber of soldiers were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen attacked the ene my security posts of Gereshk on August 21. Nine Mujahideen were killed and 25 were injured by land mines.
 Ghore Province
    The Mujahideen under the command of Raees Abdul Wahid launched an attack on Shahrak District on August 17. Here are the account of some the engagements:
    •On August 18, the Mujahideen attacked the security posts around the Shahrak inflicting heavy losses on the enemy troops. Two Mujahideen were killed and seven were injured by lane mines.
    •A large number of enemy troops woe killed when the regime aircraft bombed mistakenly die enemy base in Shahrak on August 20.
    •A regime jet was shot down by the Mujahideen during a bombing mission on August 22.
    •The Mujahideen killed four sol diers and injured six in Shahrak on
 «
 To page (3)
 AFGHANews Vpl7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
Respect follows service
    A dervish was once sitting alone, meditating in a patch of desert. A ruler passed by. The dervish, being free from the cares of this world, neither lifted his head nor paid any attention. The ruler, with the violent pride of power, was furious and said: " These dervishes in their patched cloaks are no better than animals!"
    His minister scolded the dervish and said: "The great ruler of all the world passed by and you did not stand and bow; why were you so rude?"
    The dervish replied: "Tell your king to expect those people to bow who hope for some reward from him. Tell him that rulers are there to protect their people. The people were not created just to obey rulers. The ruler is the watchman of the poor, though he has greater wealth and glory. The sheep are not made for the shepherd, rather the shepherd is there to save the
       Alexander the Greek was once asked: "How did you conquer the kingdoms of the West and of the East? For many kings before you were not able to make such conquests, even though they were richer and older than you and possessed vaster territories and greater treasure."
                          Ex-monarch suffers from heart disease
      According a reliable source, the former king Mohammad Zahir Shah who lives in exile in Rome, Italy, has been suffering from a heart disease since many years. The source said the former monarch was hospitalized in a hospital in Rome sometime ago and his doctors have advised him not to travel to places higher than 2,000 meters from the sea level.
      Some foreign countries and a group of Afghans propose Zahir Shah as the head of a neutral administration for a transitional period.
      Afghanistan is situated at a high altitude making it unsuitable for him to assume the leadership
 sheep. Look around you: today you see one man carefree and successful, the other struggling sore-hearted to survive. Wait a day or two, and see how the earth devours the brain once troubled with so many foolish thoughts! When the irresistible decrees of Fate are issued, neither king nor slave remain. Open up the tomb and search these dusty bones: can you tell which was the rich man or which the pauper?”
     The ruler was struck by the words of the dervish. He said: " Ask me a favor!"
     The dervish replied: "I would ask you never to disturb me again."
     The king begged: "Give me a word
 of advice!"
     The dervish replied: "Now that wealth is in your hands, realize before it is too late, that this wealth and this power pass from hand to hand."
    Alexander replied: "By the grace of God, whenever I conquered a country, I did not mistreat the common people nor did I ever refer to their rulers except in terms of respect "
    If you cavil at great men, the wise will never call you great.
    Fortune, thrones, commanding and forbidding, fighting and possessing, all these things pass as if they had been nothing. Do not slight the good name of those who have gone before, so that your good reputation may live once you are gone.
 News from battlefields
    1 From page (2)    ]
 August 24. One Mujahid was killed during the operation.
    •On August 28, the Mujahideen attacked a column of enemy tanks which were going from Chekhcheran to Shahrak to reinforce the regime garrison there. They destroyed 15 tanks. Fighting still continued when this report was filed.
 Badghis Province
    Haji Akhtar, a militia commander, defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at along with his 20 men on September 2, Commander Mawlawi Ebrahim reported. They brought with them 20 Kalashnikov rifles, two P.K machine1 guns and two RPG-7 rocket launchers.
 Faryab Province
    •The Mujahideen killed or wounded 75 enemy troops and destroyed two tanks when they attacked the Shurab Baig Battalion in Juma Bazar on August 16, Commander Hafizullah Arbab reported. The Mujahideen seized 150 Kalashnikov rifles, nine P.K machineguns, two mortars, one 122 mm gun and two radio sets.
    •About 200 armed regime militiamen under the command of Najibullah defected to the Mujahideen in Jumabazar on Septeirfbpr 14.
 Badakhshan Province
    The Kabul regime jets bombed Duraim valley ' of Badakhshan Province, on August 29 killing eight people. Commander Sayyed Amir reported. Bombing also caused material losses to the people of the valley.
	
liiilSS
r «'
         lejsGodJ The One and Only^^H God, the Eternal, Absolute; He hegetteth not, j|or is He begotten; - -
  Like unto him.
              ■         Holy Quran tS.CXM.J

                                                                                                                      lllli
world conquered though hearts
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15, 1991, page 0
................•; J nX | * j ;«u i ■-- *1 sf | %a f ftfjsr#
         :                    r".............. ' ^
wmmi
Willi
fc
  -             v"' "51
&MNI I
  Editorial
 Negative symmetry helps Kabul
    The Soviet Union and United States have agreed to cut supply of arms to the two sides of the Afghan conflict from the beginning of the next year. They have also agreed not to increase the present level of arms sent to their allies.
    The agreement on*negative symmetry was reached in Moscow between the Foreign Ministers of the two countries. They termed it as a step towards achieving peace in Afghanistan.
    Arms cut will give the Kabul regime an upper hand in the war against the Mujahideen consolidating the present status quo in Kabul.
    The Kabul regime has received enormous amount of arms and ammunition from the Soviet Union. The Red Army left behind not only military installations but vast quantities of arms and ammunition. The Soviets continued to pour arms to Kabul through air and road after the withdrawal of their troops. According to American sources, Moscow sent $300 million worth of arms to Kabul each month. Arms shipment to Kabul still continues.
    Gorbachev gave to Kabul new weapon systems after withdrawal of the Red Army from Afghanistan. The Kabul regime was provided with SCUD missiles, BM-27 rocket launchers and several brands of sophisticated jet fighters. Moscow have sent a large number of tanks and armored cars to Kabul.
    The Mujahideen, on the other hand, have been facing shortages of arms and ammunition after the Soviet troops withdrawal Waning interest in Afghan conflict and miscalculations about of the supporters of the Mujahideen reduced level of assistance to the resistance. This led to a increased gap between the level of armament of the two sides.
    It was logical for Americans to ask the Soviets to withdraw weapons of mass destruction they have delivered to Kabul. The withdrawal of SCUD missile, BM-27 rockets, jet fighters, gunship helicopters and advanced tanks is necessary to bring the level of armament of the two sides closer together. In-such a case arms embargo would not have had a negative effect on the resistance.
    Afghans are also worried about compliance of Moscow by the agreement Moscow might continue to pump arms and ammunition across die border without being caught or criticized by the US. While the US intended to wash its hands from Afghanistan , Moscow have always been thinking about having a friendly regime in Kabul to protect its interest While US will abide by the agreement Moscow will struggle to protects puppets in Kabul through sending more arms and ammunition to them. It is easy for Moscow to cheat the world on Afghanistan because the West especially America, does not want to embarrass Gorbachev over the Afghan issue. Such an attitude has been exploited by Gorbachev in the past to support Najib without getting any blame for continued bloodshed in Afghanistan. Gorbachev will continue to do the same in the future and Americans will continue to forgive him.
    The agreement does not ask for the withdrawal of thousands of Soviet military advisors helping the Kabul regime. Presence of more than 5,000 Soviet advisors in Kabul and in some other provinces is a clear violation of die spirit of the Geneva Accords which asks for the withdrawal of Soviet troops within a specific period. Soviet advisors fire SCUD missile and Soviet pilots fly bombing missions against the Mujahideen. Without withdrawal of these advisors no one will believe that Soviet interference in' Afghanistan has come to an end.
    Soviets provides fuel that keeps running the war machine of the regime. More than 90% of the imported fuel from Moscow is used for military purposes. If Kabul does not have the fuel for its tanks and jets it cannot launch offensive against liberated areas. Fuel should have been included in the list of military items.
    For the above reasons, the agreement in its current form will benefit Kabul.
 It will prolong the war and cause more suffering for Afghans.
     The assumption that arms embargo will lead to ceasefire and negotiations is not a well-thought conclusion. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen will not enter any deal with the Kabul regime.
     Problems arising from cutting supplies to the Mujahideen will not cause panic among the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have always had less weapons than the enemy. The key to success is the will to resist and commitment to the cause. There is a strong will to fight against communists and there are enough people to fight.
     Stoppage of arms from outside has the advantage of limiting the outside influence among the Mujahideen. This will give them freedom of action.
     The Mujahideen can overcome the problem of shortage of weapons and supplies by economizing on the use of ammunition and paying more attention to training of their men and improving their organization.
     As in the past the brave Mujahideen can capture enough supplies from the demoralized army of the puppet regime.
Regime celebrates Ptishtunistan Day
   ■■■■■■Pwas i'
HBgust3i in Kabul ipation of the ranking officers of the] |i§ol regime.f"
   The governments of Afghanistan! used to cclebraje;;!3!th of Augnst as a I day of soUdar^: widt Fushtuns and Baiuches of Palqstan. :|i I
  " C^ebmtim-:0f Pu^^t^|<iay began during die rule of the |l|tief j king. Even otthat time, fipsts
took active part in celeb|^^^p»e|
                                                                                                          o^apj|Bihe past mistakes of the Icommunist party, the communists in Kabuli say a word against iTaraki, Amin and Sour Revolution. They do not admit committing of
sist on playing a loading role in die &
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page 0
Swedes ask Moscow to end aid to Kabul
     [The following letter addressed to the Presidents of the Soviet Union and Russia has been signed by a group of Swedish members of parliament representing all parties in the Swedish Parliament. The letter is distributed by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan to media, in Soviet Union and the Baltic States.]
     Open letter to Boris Yeltsin/ Mikhail Gorbachev:
     The news that the leaders of the coup in Moscow had fled was greeted with relief by the world. The attempt to oust Mikhail Gorbachev and suffocate glasnost and people's longing for freedom with violence has failed.
     In Moscow, the populace had successfully defended their freedom against the junta's attempt to take power. They defended their right to self-determination, and not only in Russia, but also in the Baltic republics and in the rest of Europe there were sighs of relief.
     In this moment of joy, when Balts and Russians celebrate their great victory, we should not forget that even the people of Afghanistan have right to self-determination, the same right as the peoples of the Soviet Union.
     But, more than two years after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, the Soviet Union continues to give its support to Kabul.
     There, supported by Soviet weaponry, a group of men cling to power against the will of the people. These men wage war against their own people with the weapons that the Yanayev-junta, for a few days, looked like turning against the people of the Soviet Union. They are guilty of the murder of thousands of their Afghan compatriots, women and children.
     As long as these men remain in power with the Soviet support, the millions of Afghans who were forced into exile on account of the Soviet occupation, are forced to stay in refugee camps in neighboring countries where they have now lived for almost a decade. As long as the Soviet Union supplies the men in Kabul with bombs and Scud missiles, they will continue to bombard villages and cities, thereby creating a permanence of what is the largest refugee catastrophe in the world.
     The Soviet government carries a
 heavy responsibility for this war of the junta against the people of Afghanistan continuing in the shadow of other crisis and conflicts. It continues to support the coup leaders in Kabul with weapon supplies and military advisors.
     But now military and political support to the junta in Kabul has to ceased!
     President Yeltsin, who refused to give way to the leaders of the coup in Moscow, has previously declared that Russia will not have anything to do with this Afghan adventure.
     We now exhort him to do everything to win over President Gorbachev to this sensible and honorable policy!
     We appeal directly to President Gorbachev:
     Now that the reactionary forces in the Soviet Union have suffered a defeat, terminate, without and more delay, the involvement in Afghanistan and leave Afghanistan in peace at last!
     Listen to the Afghan's cry for freedom and peace, listen to world-wide opinion which demands that they too, regain their right to self-determination!
     Terminate all support to die Kabul junta!
     Per Gahrton, MP., The Green Party
     Bo Hammar, M.P., The Left Party
     Ingbritt Irhammar, MP., The Center Party
     Inger Koch, MP., The Moderate Party
     Maria Leissner, MP., The Liberal Party
     Bengt Silfverstrand, M.P., The Social Democratic Party
     The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan is a volunteer orgqaniza-don which was founded in 1980 to support the struggle of the Afghan people for freedom and independence.
     The Committee has currently 23,000 members and contributors to its fund-raising campaign, the Swedish Aid for Afghanistan. The board of the Committee has representatives from all major Swedish parties.
     The Committee carries out extensive humanitarian aid within Afghanistan in the fields of health, education and agriculture. The turnover in 1990 was 70 millions Swedish Kronor (Le. approx. 12 million US dollars).
 | Ahmad Shah Masood and senior Jami’at commanders from [Badakhshan held a meeting in Kishm I District at the beginning of I j September to discuss the military sit-1 nation in that province.          I
     Commander Sayyed Najmuddin, I Commander Aryanpoor and represen-1 tative of Commander Abdul Bask I Khalid were among those who took I I part tn the meeting.            I
     The Kabul regime war planes] continued to bomb Kishm during the] three days of talks causing casualties] itiong the civiliau population.
     More than 12000 Afghan refugee] families have returned their ration cards to the UNHCR officials since! | the launching of the UN repatriation! | program me of the Afghan refugees ud | July 1990, a UNHCR offieersaid. ■
 I              #•* I
 I An Afghan employed in a dem-
 confr*ence
 ,ni«d by Al-Aahar University oo ] August23 in Cairo. Delegations from] ttUBty Islamic countries took part in ;tfi^pSdbre^ which disraastod i$y
                                                                                                    a theMuctim workLsl; '4-
 Consultant {ATC) has been murdered j in Urgnn District, Paktika Province. The identity and motive of the taller j Ure not known.           f    I
 1                 -          I

    mmmrn
  iliphalist party, was killed b| un> known assassins in a refugee cspirp in Kotat District on September 7. Taj Mohammad:: Khan, 35, secretary of the party fa Koh# in his shop in the Oblan refugees! camp.      ,         ■ W- m
                                                                                     1§»•W mm
    Kayhal Tht^atiotpf'an Ir^an] paper, has calledfto dre%liminatk>n| of Gulbuddmg Tfikmatyar in one of its recent editorials. The paper ac-j cused Htkrhatyar of harming Iehad| more than Russians and the communist regime in Kabul*! The article caused a sharp reaction from Hezb
 Mujahideen leaders* Relations be|
'm
                                        AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
 By: Khalilullah Khalili
                                                                it i n • i i
Sayyed Hussain
    I reached Andarab via Shoorab and Nahrin. Sayyed Hussain, the deputy of King Habibullah, was there. Despite knowing his rude manners and unpleasant character, I rushed to inform him about situation in Mazar and Dehdadi. I thought that he should be fully informed so that he would not lead the army of Islam (about ten thousand strong) into disaster. I found him at Banu village in the shadow of the poplar trees. At first, he looked angry and Welcomed me with insulting remarks. When I explained to him what I knew, he became softer and listened to me carefully.
    Beside Sayyed Hussain, there was Ebrahim Baig - die respected'and beloved leader of the Bukhara freedom fighters who had fought Stalin's troops. He was accompanied by about 2000 men, some of whom were soldiers of the deposed king of Bukhara, Amir Alam Shah. Ebrahim Baig was a leader whom I admired very much. He was a legendary figure of Mujahideen of Bukhara. Talking to him was a great honor for me. I found him graceful, decisive and brave. He always used to carry a holy Quran, a sword and a rifle.
    Sayyed Hussain and his forces, along with Ebrahim Baig and his men, left Banu for Nahrin. I accompanied them. After spending five days in Nahrin, I was ordered by Sayyed Hussain to go to Aibak to mobilize people and prepare the logistics.
 Sayyed Hussain and Tashqurghan
        We mobilized the people of Aibak and the surrounding areas for Jehad. We also bought some food and other necessities. The people of Aibak, Khuram and Sar Bagh cooperated with us wholeheartedly. In Aibak I received a report that half of the forces of Sayyed Hussain (5000 men), under the command of Abdul Ghias Kohdamani, had been sent to Tashqurghan via Abdan-i- Mir Alam in the dark of the.night, and the rest had taken up positions in Kunduz under his own command. Unfortunately, in Sayyed Hussain's army, there was no medical facility to help the wounded and sick. Commander Abdul Gias, who was a brave soldier but knew
 nothing about leadership, believed that presence of medical teams in the army would soften the soldiers. Ebrahim Baig was also kept in Kunduz.
     Abdul Ghias' forces faced the enemy in the suburbs of Tashqurghan. Despite heavy enemy bombardment and artillery fire, die Mujahideen fought bravely for three days and nights. The enemy were defeated and forced to leave the city. In this battle, in which both men and women participated, the Mujahideen lost about four thousand men with hundreds more wounded.
     Commander Abdul Ghias ordered his men to celebrate the victory by lighting torches all over the city. The celebrations, unfortunately, did not last long. While our forces were still asleep, enemy reinforcements from Mazar attacked Tashqurghan by air and land.
     Fierce fighting broke out The bombardment was even heavier than before.
     Ebrahim Baig and Sayyed Hussain could not reach Tashqurghan due to the bombardment At last the city fell into enemy hands. Thousands were killed and wounded. Innocent and defenceless civilians along with their children escaped to the mountains. Many followers of Dah Mullah Arab were martyred. Sayyed Hussain retreated to Nahrin. The enemy forces marched to Rubatak via Tangi-i-Tashqurghan. On their way to Rubatak the Russian troops destroyed houses, burned crops aid gardens and killed innocent people. Around four thousand were killed and hundreds died due to lack of water.
     Despite all these barbaric killing and brutalities, there was still scattered fighting against the enemy, and the Mujahideen launched night raids. Mirza Mohammad Qasim, Sher Ali, Da Mullah Arab and Khalifa Qezel Ayak were still leading their exhausted forces.
 Kabul
     King Habibullah and his foreign minister Attaul Haq were waiting for me at the royal palace (Arg-i-Shahi) where I arrived at about 10 p.m. I was ordered to describe the situation in full detail. The king praised the bravery of Mazar's people. He nodded regretfully when I told him of the escape of Sayyed Hussain. He asked about Ebrahim Baig and I explained to him that if Sayyed Hussain had given him
 freedom of action the situation would have been different The King could not believe the Soviets' shameless and brutal bombardments. My whole story was a surprise to him. His court minster, Sher Jan Khan elaborated on what I cbuld not explain clearly to him.
     Saddened by the news of the Soviet invasion, he said: "There is no other way than to call King Amanullah from Kandahar and General Nadir from Paktia. Let them rule the country and myself lead the army towards the North and help the king of Bukhara to win back his throne." His minister of foreign affairs suggested that first of all they should summon the Soviet ambassador and ask him to provide an off! rial explination of the invasion. Everyone agreed. Next day, a Soviet diplomat was summoned at the foreign ministry. After a long talk he wasgiv-en an official protest letter regarding the invasion. Sufficient documents were provided to him attesting to the Russian aerial bombardments and the destruction they caused. The Soviet diplomat said that he was not aware of die incident; he would ask Moscow about it and would convey Moscow's reply to them. The embassies of Turkey, Iran and other friendly countries woe also informed of the invasion.
 King Amanullah
     King Amanullah was in Kandahar to mobilize people in order to win his throne back from King Habibullah.
     Nadir Khan's men had enterer Paktia and advanced to Logar. Amanullah realized that the Soviets had tricked him. They wanted to capture Kabul the same way they had captured Mazar. There are many possibilities why Amanullah might have started to suspect the Soviets' motives:
     (a)    Ghulam Nabi might have in formed Amanullah of their evil intentions.
      (b)    Amanullah himself might have realized the sensitivity of the situation by studying the foreign press.
     (c)    Mustafa Kamal, the leader of Turkey and a personal friend of Amanullah, might have advised him not to accept Soviet help.
     (d)    The old and respected Afghan politician and patriot, Mahmood Tarzi, might had sent him the following verse: "Being punished in Hell is much better than going to Paradise with the help of
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 18, September 15,1991, page 0
 a neighbor.”
     (e) The British government might have pressured him to refuse Soviet help.
     Whatever the reason. King Amanullah, despite having friendly ties with the Russians, did not want to be crowned shamefully by than. He did not want to be called the Soviet puppet by future generations of Afghans . Therefore, he preferred to live as a refugee in Italy and not as a puppet king in Kabul. He sent a message to Ghulam Nabi that he did not want Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. Ghulam Nabi, who was waiting for such an instruction from his boss, returned to Russia — along with the Red Army.
     Now that the first invasion of Afghanistan has become a part of the past, the names of our heroes such as Dah Mullah Arab, Khalifa Qezel Ayak, Mirza Mohammad Qasim, Mawlawi Haider, Mawlawi Sarwar Takhari, Mawlawi Mohammad Osman, Abdul Samad Istalifi and Allauddin Faryabi will be remembered for centuries by our nation.
     April 1984, Islamabad
                       Concluded
     Khalili was 11 years old when King Amanullah hanged is father and confiscated his property. His father was the finance minister of King Habibullah, Amanunllah's father.
     Khalili was exiled to to Parwan Province along with his brothers and sisters. The government had banned Khalili from entering school.
      Khalili secretly took lessons in Islamic science from a local religious and spiritual man, Hafezgi Saheb. At the age of 13, he started to write poetries.
      When Amanullah was dethroned by Habibullah, Khalili became the tax officer of Mazar.
     He was jailed in 1947 on charges of sympathizing with the uprising of Safi tribe in Kunar to which Khalili belonged. After one year in prison, he was banished to Kandahar.
     From 1949 to 51, he served as the minister of Information and Culture, the Dean of the Kabul University and Secretary General of the Cabinet Later he became the Cultural Advisor of King Zahir and remained in this post for 13 years.
      He served as an ambassador to Saudi Arbaia and to Iraq.
     Khalili resigned from his job immediately after the communist coup oi ‘ 1978 and became a poet of the Mujahideen.
     He died in Pakistan in 1987.
Turmoil in Kunar damages Jehad
     Armed conflict between Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) and Jamaat Da'wa (Jamilur Raman) for control of Kunar Province and the assassination of Da'wa leader have caused irreparable political and human losses for the Afghan resistance.
     Kunar is a valley along the border with Pakistan. Armed struggle against the communist regime started in this valley in 1978.
     During the Soviet occupation of the valley, the Mujahideen fought against the Soviets in unity. When the Soviets left Kunar in 1988 trouble began. Jamaat Da'wa refused to join an administration created by the other parties. When Hezb Islami left the AIG in mid 1989, it cooperated with Da'wa party against AIG-sponsored administration. In order to consolidate their control over Kunar, Hezb and Da’wa party agreed to bold general elections but each side claimed that it had the one the elections.
     Da'wa party who enjoyed financial support from Saudi Arabia continued to expand its influence. It forced other parties out of Kunar. Three months ago, Da'wa party succeeded in capturing Hezb bases in the valley and framed a single administration in Kunar.
     The UN had chosen Kunar the place where refugees should return. More than 30 international aid organizations worked there in the field of mine-clearing, education, irrigation, health and road construction. Da'wa administration fully cooperated with these organizations during their short-lived control of valley.
     Control of Kunar by Da'wa, whose followers call themselves Salafis, could not calm the situation. Propaganda war between Hezb and Salafis intensified. It seemed that Hezb was preparing to recapture its lost positions in Kunar.
     While Hezb was the main rival group against Salafis, other Mujahideen parties woe also angry with Salafis because that party had forced them out of Kunar. Hezb tried to involve other parties in the attack against Salafis. In the final attack some commanders belonging to other parties also took part in fighting to regain their lost position. Salafis lost their position in the main valley and retreated to Pech valley, the home of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman.
 Hezb Islami papers described the capture of Asadabad, the provincial capital of Kunar, as a big victory fra that party.
     In order to minimize the dangers of infighting, a group of well-wishers from Pakistan, Middle-East and some Afghan personalities tried to mediate between the two sides. A five-member committee under the leadership of Mawlawi Hasanjan was formed to find a solution to the problem.
     While attempts to reconcile between the two sides were in progress, Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman, the head of Da'wa party, was assassinated on August 30 by an Egyptian, Abdullah Roomi. The assassin was killed by Jamilur Rahman guards. The motive of the assassin is not known.
     Hezb condemned assassination of Mawlawi Jamilur Rahman and termed it as a conspiracy of the enemies of Islam against Jehad.
     Mawlawi Sameeullah from Ningarhar, was appointed as the new leader of Da'wa party.
     Jamilur Rahman, 58, became involved in politics during the rule of President Daud. He took part in the uprising of 1975 against Daud. Da'wa leader whose real name is Mohammad Hussain comes from Ninglam village of Pech District, Kunar province. He belongs to the Safi tribe.
     After Hikmatyar left Jami’at in 1975 and formed Hezb, Jamilur Rahman remained with Jami'at fra a while. Later he joined Hezb and till 1982 served as the provincial Amir or Hezb in Kunar.
     His Salafi way of thinking made him popular among other Salafis , locally know as Wahabis, in Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle-East He received enormous amount of money from them and hundreds of Arab volunteers joined his forces.
     Jamilur Rahman supported Saudi Arabia in Gulf war while Hikmatyar spoke is support Saddam Husain, Hezb publications blamed Saudi secret services for the troubles of Kunar.
     Saudi government sent a delegation to Pakistan to confirm its support to all Mujahideen. The seven-member Saudi delegation was headed by Abdullah Alhasan Al-Turky, the rector Islamic Universities of the Kingdom,
                                                                            To Page (8)
                                        AFGHANews Vol 7, No 18, September 15,1991, page ©
held in Teheran
   . The second round of tripartite conference wais held on August 28 and 29 in Tehran with the participation of the Mujahideen, Pakistan and Iran delegations.
     Afghan delegation was comprised of 30 people, including most of the Mujahideen leaders. Hezb Islami Hikmatyar, Hezb Islami Khalis and Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf did not take part in the talks.
     The first round of the tripartite talks were held in Islamabad one month ago. The purpose of these meetings are to find a consensus formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
     The Islamabad meeting gave conditional support to the five-point UN peace plan. The declaration of Tehran reaffirmed support for the UN plan.
     It was decided that a Mujahideen delegation should meet with the UN Secretary General and discuss with him the plan. The Mujahideen wants clarification about the intra Afghan dialogue and transitional administration envisaged in the plan. They neither want to talk with the Kabul regime nor take part in an administration in which Kabul is a part of.
     The Mujahideen expressed their readiness for constructive talks with Moscow and hoped that the recent changes in the Soviet Union would help in bringing peace to Afghanistan.
     The conference decided that a delegation of the Mujahideen to be sent to the UN General Assembly and to the OIC Summit in Dakar.
     The conference established an ad hoc committee to prepare the agenda for the third round of talks which will held in Islamabad. No date has been fixed yet.
     The participants believed that any solution of the Afghan problem should lead to the replacement of Kabul regime with an elected Islamic government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
     The communique condemned the recent aerial bombing of the civilian targets by Kabul regime. The Mujahideen said that they would continue armed struggle against the Kabul regime until an acceptable solution was found to the Afghan problem.
     Ali Akbar Velayati, the Foreign
     Minster of Iran, Akram Zaki the General Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan and the Mujahideen leaders participating in the conference termed the outcome of the Tehran talks as positive.
     Velayati and Zaki asked the Mujahideen to make use of the favorable international atmosphere for bringing peace to their country.
     The participants of die conference held a meeting with President Rafsanjani. He asked the Mujahideen to sink their difference so that they can achieve total victory.
     Akram Zaki told the conference that Saudi Arabia supported Pakistan efforts for finding a political solution to Afghan issue. He said the US also supported these efforts.
     Afghanistan was a topic of discussion between Iranian leaders and the UN Secretary General who visited Tehran. A Mujahideen delegation met with the Secretary-General in Teheran and discussed with him the UN peace plan. The delegation included Pir Gailani and Prof. Mujaddidi.
     The UN chief asked the Mujahideen leaders to refrain from launching attack on Kabul so that the chances of a peaceful solution are destroyed. Later, he flew to Saudi Arabia to discuss Afghanistan issue with king Fahd.
     President Ghulam Ishaq Khan discussed Afghan issue with the Iranian leaders during his. four-day official visit to Tehran.
     Despite optimism expressed by the participants of the tripartite conference, there are still major obstacle on its way. Some Mujahideen groups who have had very close relations with Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are not taking part in the talks. Without participation of all the Mujahideen parties adoption of a consensus formula becomes difficult
     Zahir Shah has expressed reservation about outcome of tripartite conference because of the participation of Iran and Pakistan in it He believes that Afghans should be allowed to decide themselves.
     There is a strong possibility that some prominent Afghan refugees living in the West will be invited in the coming session of the conference in Islamabad. Most of those living in West are sympathizer of of the forma’ king.
Turmoil in Kunar
 He met with Mujahideen leaders including Hikmatyar and the new leader of Da’wa party, asking for a peaceful solution of Mujahideen differences. It was an attempt by*Saudi Arabia to dispel the impression that it was helping one Mujahideen party against another.
     The situation in Kunar is calm but very tense. In a tribal society bitterness created by war cannot be forgotten quickly.a No single administration has been created in Kunar so far. Da'wa party has lost control of the main Kunar valley but still has presence in Pech valley.
     Other Mujahideen groups demand the withdrawal of non-Kunari Mujahideen brought by Hezb to fight against Salafis. Indisciplined behavior by some victorious invaders has antagonized local people. A safe estimate indicates that 100 people have died in the recent fighting in Kunar.
     The problems in Kunar ended relief operations and reconstruction work of the relief organizations. These organizations had opened their offices in Asadabad. The UN had chosen Kunar as safe heaven for the return of refugees. The fighting in Kunar will sup refugees from returning to Kunar. Relief organizations have said they will not return to the valley unless the safety of their workers and offices are guaranteed by the local Mujahideen.
     Some people express worry that Hezb's 'victory' in Kunar might encourage that party to bid for regaining lost ground in other parts of Afghanistan.
     The sad developments in Kunar has caused disappointment among the supporters of the Mujahideen and given a propaganda tool in the hand of the Kabul regime.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan