                              IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH
AFGHANnews
            A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM FAT I3LAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN,
                   VOL. IV, NO. 3, 1/2/1988.
                                            UN OBSERVER fN KHOST
    It was reported by the mass media that prof. Flex Ermacora was flown by the puppet regime to Khost after the siege had been broken, It is said that Ermacora was depressed by the heavy damage to the buildings and streets from attacks by the Mujahideen.
    Mr Ermacora has done a good job by filing human rights abuses committed by the puppets and Soviet invaders in Afghanistan: Last year, the Soviets tried to use his trip to Kabul as a propaganda tool Mr Ermacora mentioned in his report an. improvement in the human rights situation in occupied Afghanistan This was not accurate and not based on free and fair investigation He was given a guided tour and talked to the selected people chosen by the puppet regime
 i Using the clause of improvement in the human rights situation the Soviets tried to
 I1 tell the world about the success of their policy of National Reconciliation. At that time
    Ermacora asked to go to Khost but was refused, After the long offensive in Khost he was taken there to he a witness of the destruction of buildings for which the Mujahideen
    are blamed.
    This is an unpleasant development Our enemy which is a superpower can arrange such tours when it suits it and blame the Reslstance for all the destruction, This means using the UN as a propaganda, tool for specific reasons
    Dr. Ermacora on the other hand does not have that type of access to the areas which the other side of the'conflict (Mujahideen) control to measure the scale of destruction ■ ’ suffering of the population and disruption of the way of life. The only way for him is to meet some refugees io Pakistan. Under these circumstances can he expect to come up with a report which is fcalah ced? The answer i? negative
    We hope that such a respectable person as prof Ermacora and such a prestigious organisation as the UN should not be allowed to be used for the propaganda purposes of
    an aggressor power which has violated a UN charter in invading an independent country and has ignored the repeated call by the UN to end its occupation of Afghanistan
                          EXPLOSION IN JALALABAD THE WORK OF THE REGIME
    The puppet regime in Kabul exploded two bombs in Jalalabad city during Ghafar Khan's funeral ceremony and blamed the Mujahideen for the explosions.
    Ghafar Khan the famed leader of Pushtoons. died in Peshawar and two days later was taken to Jalalabad (Afghanistan i to be buried there. Knowing this, the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen announced a ceasefire along Toorkham-Jalalabad road and around I the area he was supposed to be buried
 | The procession of hundred cars arrived in Jalalabad safely. Ten minutes after the j burial two explosions took place in the car park close to the graveyard. Fourteen people ; died including 9 Pakistanis who had accompanied the funeral and others were injured, t
 / The regime immediately started to accuse the Mujahideen for the explosion and started 1— ----------------------— ____________________________________________________
fifBHFW iSiiS 'JOL.iO, HO. 3, !/2,'!9e9, PRCE 2
   to give the news of disturbances m Pakistan in. reaction to the explosion
   The explosion was the work of W Al> I Communist Secret Services) and its purpose was to create tension between the refugees and the Pakistan people.
   The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen immediately rejected the accusations and called the explosion "uh-isUmic" and ''against Afghan tradition of respecting the dead"
   This is not the first time that the puppets have tried to make propaganda out of blood ami flesh of innocent Afghans and Pakistanis Last year aiorte hundreds of bombs were exploded in. schools, buses, tea houses and market places in Pakistan. As a result of these explosions a iarge number of people (Afghans and Pakistanis! were either killed or wounded
   The real aim behind ail these terrorist actions sponsored by the Soviets is w destabilize Pakistan by creating tension between the Pakistani hosts and three million Afghan refugee guests. So far the brother people of Pakistan have foiled ail the evil designs of the enemies of Islam and have kept a good relationship with their refugee brothers and sisters and will continue u> do so in the future
   The Jalalabad explosion has given ammunition to some people in. Pakistan to incite the local population against refugees but they will definitely fail in their evil designs. For . those who have the slightest insight into the nature of Communist regimes; and in particular the nature of the puppet regime in Kabul and its leader (who has long years of experience in subversive activities! they will have no difficulty in understanding {.he reasons far which the regime indulged in such an inhuman act exploding bombs at the funeral ceremony of Khan Abdul Ghai&r Khan in Jalalabad
   In early January the enemy tried six times to re-establish some of the military posts which were captured by Mujahideen in Shaba in Jate December Finally, because of tne extreme pressure put an Mujahideen the enemy was able to set. up two posts on. January 4 "With the help of God. however Mujahideen recaptured the two posts at 4:00 p.m the same day They captured eight soldiers and seized eight AK-47s and a communication set. Some of the enemy troops were killed, but Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties.
                             FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
flFC-HSH tiEUS UOL.IU, HO. 3,      IZ2/19B0, SfiGE  3
 In another operation by the Mujahideen, nine Russian soldiers were killed on January 4 while they were taking supplies to their post in Tawakh. Moreover, one tack was destroyed by a land mine explosion on the road to Tawakh and all its occupants were lulled
 Mujahideen also shutdown a SU-25 plane in Mockuni valley of Panjshir in the first week of January using a missile
                                                  HERAT PROVINCE
 7/1/198$, According to a report sent by commander Ismael Than, Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy along the Herat-Islamqala highway. As a result. 4 trucks, one jeep and one motorcycle were destroyed by heavy weapons. About 15 militias were killed and wounded and 10 others were captured by the Mujahideen
 No casualties from Mujahideen were given in the report.
 9/1/1987; In another operation against an enemy convoy on the Herat-Islamqala highway, 20 APCs. trucks and a few motorcycle were destroyed, An unknown number of militias were killed and 20 soldiers were taken prisoner five AK-47$ were captured in the operation
 According to another report from Herat, one of the most vicious militia commanders, Noorudin Charabuy. was killed by Mujahideen in Herat province on January 23. The well-planned operation was carried out by the Mu jahideen of Shahid Afzali front and Fazal Ahmad Gurg front in Seys Khuia area of Islamqala near the Iranian border. Two of Noorudin s companions w'ere wounded in the operation.
 In another operation on January 20, the Mujahideen from jami'at launched a joint attack on an enemy convoy in Sabool Rozanak area along the Herat-Islamqala highway Three vehicles and one tank were destroyed , 15 enemy troops were killed and a number of them were wounded
 In an earlier operation, Mujahideen destroyed one tank and one APC in Siasang near Adraskaa on December 31,1987, In the operation. 6 Russians were killed and 3 wounded. Mujahideen captured one Grionve atachioegua. 50.000 Afghanis cash, some Russian currency and 10 tape -recorders
 In retaliation the enemy bombarded the areas controlled by the Mujahideen as a result of which a large cumber of sheep and cattle were killed
                                                  BALKH PROVINCE
 Mujahideen from jaroiat attacked the CharboJak sub-district headquarters which are located inside Makar-e-Sharif city, on December 13, 1987 Two military posts were destroyed Mujahideen captured one officer and five soldiers They also seized 14 AT-47s.
 On December 14. 1987. Mujahideen from jam! at in Sfcoigar district launched an attack on Halqajar and Bodana military posts.
 The operation lasted for two days One tank and two other vehicles were destroyed and one ammunition depot was set ablaze, Six puppet soldiers were also captured
 Around mid-December Mujahideen also attacked the Mazar Fertilizer factory, airport and enemy base in Sar Asvab by heavy weapons The size of the damage and casualties are not known, but they are believed to be high.
                     In retaliation , the enemy launched an attack on Mujahideen positions in Shulgar
SFEHRIt fJEUS yat.10, KQ. 3,       1/2/I98S,   PB5E  9
    district on December IS The ,iigb.tis>§ lasted for sis days. Five Mujahideen were martyred and 20 were wounded But the enemy suffered heavier casualties Around 30 soldiers were hilled, two tanks and one truck were destroyed
                                                  KABUL PROVINCE
    29/32/1%?' Mujahideen under Use command of Mullah Ezat, Jami'at chief commander in Paghman. ambushed an enemy supply convoy along the Kabul-Paghman road. A number of vehicles were set on fir? by the Mujahideen RPG fire .(no specific figure is given) A Jeep was also set ablaze and ail of its occupants who were members of WAl> were killed. The convoy was cot able to reach Paghman and returned back
    Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation.
    30/12/1987: Hundreds of prisoners from Pol-e'Charkhi were forcibly taken into the Army Division No.8 (Oargha Division) Knowing that the prisoners were trying to escape from the army, the Mujahideen launched a night attack withlO?mnx rockets As a result, most-ofthe prisoners were able to fiee and join the Mujahideen (the number is not mentioned in the report'*
    During the operation, some logistic depots were also set on fire and smoke couid be seen from 4 30 - 9:00 a.m
    26/12/1987; Mujahideen attacked on an enemy post in Kamfci area of Afghan dab village (between Kabul and Paghman) This post was earlier established to block a Mujahideen supply route and prevent them from penetrating Paghmac The operation started at 4 00 pm and lasted for two hours As a result, the post was captured and the Mujahideen seized 25 AK-47s. one DSchl and one 82mm mortar. Forty enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
    Three Mujahideen were injured during the operation.
    27/12/1987 Mujahideen launched attacks with heavy weapons on Army Division No 8 and an enemy post around the city of Kabul One DSA military bus was hit and one depot of ammuniton belonging to the mentioned Division was destroyed Ten puppet soldiers were either killed or wounded
                                       RYZHKOV !N NORDIC COUNTRIES
    The Soviet Prime Minister, Ryzhkov, paid official visits to the two Nordic countries of Sweden and Norway in the second week of January. The purpose of the trip was to improve Soviet relations with the two neighboring countries.
    It is natural for the government and people of these countries to ask the Soviets about their aggressive war in Afghanistan. Is draw attention to the grave situation in Afghanistan and continued occupation of a small, non-aligned and neighboring country by a superpower, both the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan which are volunteer solidarity organizations, invited Mohammad Eshaq, a political officer of jamiat Island Afghanistan to present the Mujahideen s side of the story
    People in these countries are in a good position to understand the situation the Afghan people are facing. The two countries are comparatively small and have common borders with the Soviet Union Soviet activities in these countries in the form of violation of their air space and sea waters has continued for a long time and has been the source of concern to the people of these countries
    It is natural for the people of the two countries to be worried about Soviet intensions, especially when they have invaded Afghanistan and continued their criminal war there for eight years.
AFGHAN ilEUS UOl. UJ, HD. 3,       1/2/1968, FflSE
    Ryzhkov's visit and the presence of ifae Mujahideens representative once mors drew the attention of the media towards the big Russian-made human tragedy in Afghanistan Articles were published in the papers of the coutrtes and radio and television in the two cowries gave the opportunity for the Mujahideens representative to inform the people about the latest military and political developments. Public meetings and demonstrations were also organized by the people of the two countries to shew their support for the just cause of the people of Afghanistan and their disapproval of the continued occupation of a small country by a superpower .
    Government officials and prominent political figures of the two countries were informed about the views of the Mujahideen on tfae situation
    The issue of Afghanistan was raised at high levels by the leaders of the two countries and the Soviets may once more have repeated their public position which is not very convincing After two years of tails about peace, the Soviets have lost momentum La their propaganda offensive Now every body expects the Soviets to take practical steps and end Use occupation of Afghanistan.
    Although Afghanistan is not a new event and has not caused an outcry similar to the anti-war movement of Vietnam, still the people and governments raise the question on different occasions and embarrass the Soviets for their atrocities against the Afghan people.
    As long as the Soviets continue their coloniaiistic war in Afghanistan, they will have difficulty in convincing the rest of the world of their good intensions for peace Small countries sharing borders with the Soviets have to be concerned about the continued military involvement of the Soviets in Afghanistan.
    The people and governments of the two countries want an end to the Soviet invasion. They are not alone, all peace-loving nations of the world want the Soviets out of
    Afghanistan.
                                             STOP BOMBING AFGHANS
    On January 1st., a three member delegation presented a protest letter to the Soviet embassy in Stockholm asking for an end to the bombing of Afghan people.
    The letter was signed by *>0,000 people coming from differed parts of Sweden and belonging to different walks of life The event was major newTs for the electronic ana pnnt »nediaaf the country.
    The delegation who handed the protest letter to the officials of the Soviet embassy in Stockholm was composed of the represiative of the Swedish Committe for Afghanistan, the representative of the Peace and Arbitration Society of Sweden and the leader of the Liberal Party of Sweden The event was a major victory for the solidarity movement and the cause of freedom but a source of embarrassment and frustration for the Soviets.
                                    A NEW FILM ON AFGHANISTAN
   French television will soon telecast a new documentary film about Afghanistan. The film which is called "Massoud: portrait dun chef Afghan" has been made by Ckristaphe de Poafiily. This is the third documentary film, 'which Christophs has made about the war in Afghanistan.
   The film shows the development which has taken place in North-Eastern Afghanistan under the leadership of commander Masood. janiial cameramen have provided the footage of the attacks against th e two enemy garrisons in the North
   It is hoped that this 5a minute film will be shown in a dozen countries
RFSHHH MEWS UQl.lU. HO. 3, I/2/19B8, FSGE 6
                              PEACE PROSPECTS THROUGH THE GENEVA TALKS
 Mr, Biego Cordovezs shuttle diplomacy between Kabul and Islamabad has ones more put the Afghan issue in the limelight of the international media
 A lot of people seem optimistic about a political solution to the Afghan issue through the Geneva proximity tai&s and think that the day when Afghanistan will be free again is ciose. But the situation is not as promising as it seems. Tremendous difficulties over the key issues of -withdrawal of Soviet forces la a short period of time and the right of Afghans for self-determination and guarantees for non-interference in the affairs of Afghanistan in the future have remained unsolved and little has been discussed
 Without solving these key issues it would be simple-minded to believe in a quick solution to the problem and return of peace to the country.
 About the present Geneva format one can say with full confidence that it is unable to soive any problem of an important nature On the contrary, any agreement signed between Pakistan and the puppet regime will complicate the situation
 The reason is simple The Geneva proximity talks do not include the Russian aggressors and the Mujahideen who fight for the freedom of their country. There is no way for the people of Afghanistan , based on the present format, to choose the regime of their choice. Any agreement is Geneva will be signed by the puppet regime, Signing such an agreement will legitimize the puppet regime and ail the accords she has signed with the Soviet Union in the past nine years,
 In purely technical terms it is not a balanced agreement either, According to the agreed instruments as soon as the withdrawal of Soviet troops starts aid of any kind to the Mujahideen will be cut (including Mujahideens' access to the international press). There is no mention about cutting of the Soviet aid to the puppet regime in Kabul.
 Politically any agreement in Geneva will be a triumph for an illegal puppet regime and a.more important victory for the Soviets to show that they were peace-loving
 The vague terms repeated by the international community about the right of Afghans to determine their future will be lost in the middle of the excitement immediately after the accord The Mujahideen have enough reasons to be worried about the whole set-up. When the chairman of the Alliance refuses to meet Cordovez on private bases and criticizes the Geneva talks be .has good reason to do so. But at the same time this does not mean we are not in favour of a political solution.
 We believe in a political solution but to us a political solution must guarantee our country’s independence, territorial integrity and the right for self-determination
 The Mujahideen are not worried ifcat they can not defeat the puppet regime in the battlefields in Afghanistan. They are sure about it What they are worried about is the Soviet reaction in case that happens
 It is also not clear how many Soviet advisors and combat units will remain in Afghanistan to protect the regime after the withdrawal, It is also not clear how much arms, ammunition, money etc the regime will get. from the Soviets after the agreement is signed
 Under these circumstances peace will not come, War will continue and there will not be a possibility for the refugees to return on their own choice. What would be the interpretation of the Soviets of that development and what would be the reaction of the host country if despite an agreement the refugees could not go 1*3 their country?
                      The present Geneva format assumes that there is no fighting from inside, ail the
                      problems start from Pakistan. So an agreement with Pakistan could solve the problem.
                             BFGHRK HEWS UGL.IU,, BO. 3,       i/2/!968,  FUSE  f
1
-4
    The pressm Geneva sgresiBeiu also assumes that the people of Afghanistan .have done something wrong against the regime in Kabul and Torses a general amnesty by the regime and equal opportunities for work and travel (inside Afghanistan).with those who remained in iht country Ail these assumptions contradict with realities and any } agreement based on them should not fee expected to he veritable
    The Afghanistan problem , first of ail is a political issue which need.? a political approach based on the realities on the ground. The Mujahideen, as a determining factor j is a reality Any solution without involving them will not work. The question is • Is ] there any rote predicted in the present Geneva format for the Mujahideen to play’ The j answer is no. All the personal efforts of Mr. Cardovez to solve the big issue of involving ! the Mujahideen through private and informal talks is underestimating the dimensions ’ of the problem.                                                                 j
                                                                                                                       i
    Finally a stable government in the post-withdrawal period is a key to the issue and safeguard against any unpleasant developments in the form of interference in the affairs of Afghans A stable government is also necessary for a law and order situation and to avoid' an-necessary bloodshed How can one think of a stable government without full participation of the Mujahideen’ The puppets are not able to form such a government. Any figure from outside can not do that The key issue is involving the resistor ce in a political process,
  . Equally it is important to in elude the Soviets in direct talks with the Mujafcieteea.We -are j
    sure in that case there will not be too .many complicated problems which could not be solved.
    With ail the good intensions of our Pakistani brothers and the international community which supports the present Geneva talks unfortunately it is not adequate to solve the Afghan issue in its present form.
                                   THE HUNGER STRIKE FOR AFGHANISTAN
    To commemorate the eight anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan Mr. Hugo de Dude, a Dutch citizen undertook a five day hunger strike in frost of the Soviet Consulate in Amsterdam, Holland The five day hunger strike ended an Christmas, the anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 5:979.
    When asked about Use purpose- of the hunger strike, Mr Huge de Glide said he undertook the strike to draw public attention, towards the suffering of Afghan people.
    The self-sacrifice of some individuals to bring to the attention of people living in          j
    comfort the great suffering of millions of Afghans is of great importance to the just         !
    cause of our people and it will be remembered by our people                                   j
[ IN THE NAME Or ALMIGHTY ALLAH
                         IS THE SOVIETS’ OFFER A KEY TO THE SOLUTION?
 The new time-table offered by the Soviets is considered as a sign of real progress in the direction of finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan by some people. The Soviets have said they will complete the withdrawal of their troops within ten months if Pakistan and the regime in Kabul sign the four instrument agreement in Geneva. The pulling out of the troops will start 60 days after the agreement is signed.
 To those who do not have enough insight into the complicated situation in Afghanistan the announcement seems a breakthrough but to the Afghan Resistance the case is different.
 The main pm pose of our struggle is. to restore independence, non-alignmcnt and Islamic status to Afghanistan. That is achieved when the Soviet forces leave Afghanistan and the people are given the right to choose the type of government they want. These are the two key issues and a prerequisite for restoration of peace in the country.                                   '
 The new Soviet offer is designed to increase the speed in the present Geneva process and the main purpose of it is the sighing of the agreement by the puppet regime. The mere signing of the Geneva agreement by the regime will give this regime international recognition and the colour of legitimacy. This would be a great political achievement for the Soviets.
 The present Geneva format will not allow the Mujahideen to play any role and without their participation no stable government will come into existence. The war will continue, the country will remain divided and the refugees will not find the conditions safe enough to return home.
 If the communist regime remains , in a controlling position, the way that the Soviets have envisaged, the refugees will not feel safe to return and the Mujahideen will not stop fighting. Therefore it seems that the Soviets are not interested in peace in Afghanistan but in imposing their isolated puppet regime through an international agreement.
 The Soviets hope that by getting the recognition of the puppet regime through Geneva and having 10 months to operate against the Mujahideen who will not be given any military or financial assistance, the regime will be able to survive.
 The Soviets may also leave thousands of their personnel under the name of advisors to help the regime. The Soviets think that massive military supplies to the regime by them and substantial economic aid channelled through the regime by the UN under the name Df a rehabilitation programme will put the regime in a good military
AFGHAN HEMS MOL. Ill, HO. 1, 15/2/1988, PAGE 2
and! economic position. And finally signing an agreement for the withdrawal of troops will give a peace-loving image to the Russians!
The outcome of the present format of the Geneva talks may be anything , it will not bring peace to the country and will create more complications for the people of Afghanistan.
Ve advise our Pakistani brothers hot to sign any agreement which will not bring peace to Afghanistan and we hope the rest pf the world will not be deceived by the Soviet manoeuvers and continue to demand for a real solution to Afghanistan issue which should include the exercise of the right for self-determination for the people of Afghanistan and the withdrawal of the Soviet troops.
NEWS
FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                             HERAT PROVINCE
20/1/1908: In a well-planned operation on Shindand military Airbase, . using 122mm artillery, Mujahideen were able to damage three Russian jets on the field and destroy 9 militia posts around the base. -
About loo light weapons, 4 Dschk, 2 mortars and a great amount of ammunition were captured from the post3. The Mujahideen received no casualties in the fighting.
10/1/1988: In another operation which was conducted by Mujahideen commander Ghulam Sakhi in Deh Surkh, Hasan Abad and Karach areas, 40 AK-47s, 10 heavy machineguns and 8 RPG-7S were captured.
In retaliation, the Russians bombarded the areas which resulted in the killing and wounding of more than 100 civilians.
2/2/1988: The Mujahideen carried out two separate attacks against two enemy security posts in Kohsan district. During the operation 6 enemy militias were killed, 5 soldiers were taken prisoner and 8 AK-47S and a military truck .were captured.
 /

                                                   nnwnii heiis. wiL.iv, no. i, ts/z/ivoo, : pjide 3
 Une A1’C van alro ilosboyod during the fighting which lasted for 5 hours.                                                   ':
                          PARY/AN PROVINCE
 7/1/1988: Mujahiilfieri from Jand'at led by commander Enayatullah, attacked and captured 2 DRA posts in Bagram in which 6 officers including two soldiers were killed and 4 others were taken prisoner. Seven AK-47S and large quantities of ammunitions and foodstuff were also seised from the posts.
 2/1/1988: In a surprise attack against an enemy military convoy along Parwan-Jabul Saraj highway, Mujahideen destroyed 3 tanks and 2 vehicles and killed or wounded 5 Russian crews.
 According to the report, the Mujahideen suffered no casualties in the operation.
                                           QANDAIIAR PROVINCE
 11/1/1988: Five enemy militias belonging to groups of DRA militia commander Esmat surrendered with their weapons to the Mujahideen of the „   .                                                      area.
 Three days later, the onemy airforce bombarded Mazar Kohna and Arghandali district. As a result, 16 children were killed and 9 others were wounded.
 10/10/1908: Mujahideen led by commander Habibullah attacked forces of a well-known militia commander Esmat In Rubat area. As a result of the dashes between the two sides, It military trucks were burned and 16 AK-47S were seized from the enemy.
 20/1/80: Mujahideen under the command of Habibullah launched an attack on a DRA post in Qalai Kohna area and were able to capture one Dschk, one mortar, one RPG-7 and 10 AK-47S.
 According to the report, Mujahideen did not sustain any casualties in the operation.
                                             FARAII PROVINCE
 24/1/1988: Groups of Mujahideen belonging to commander Junta Khan raided an enemy military convoy in a suburb about 7 kms from the. provincial capital. In the course of fighting , 2 APCs and 2 trucks were destroyed. About 4o enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded including 2 WAD commanders, 2 tankists and one officer.
 Mujahideen captured 9 AK-47s in the operation but there was no indication about their casualties in the report.
                          TAKIIAR PRUVINCE                 - ,t
 27/1/1908: Mujahideen of Tnkhar launched a series of attacks against some DRA posts which were recently established in the area with the help of some WAD agents and a few. of their local supporters for the purpose of pmpagnting the so-called "National Reconciliation* campaign. In the lighting liio head of local WAD namely Satar Pacha was killed along with some of his followers.
                                                       nrnnnii heus m.,pl no. i, 15/2/1*300, puce h
Another well-known commander of the enemy who had many posts under his control, was taken prisoner with 6 AK-A7S while 2 of his companions write wounded.
                                             KIJNDUZ I’KUVINCE
13/1/1900: A group of: Mujahideen belonging to Commander Ahdul Basir were surrounded by enemy forties in Kubhnni area where H Mujahideen were Injured as they fought their way out of the seige with the help of other Mujahideen groups who veto fighting to help break the siege.
Later on, enemy Ml 13s and heavy artilleries shelled nearby houses in the area where a great number of cattle were killed and some houses were destroyed. There is no mention in the report about human losses.'
                                ALLIANCE CHAIRMAN MET CORDOVEZ
Younus Khalis, chairman of the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen met Gordovez, the UH Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, on Saturday 6th of January in Peshawar.
Mr. Cordovez who is trying to find a political solution to the Afghan issue through Geneva proximity talks, wanted to meet the Mujahideen leaders. This was granted to him after some hesitation on the part of the Resistance.
The Mujahideen did not want their meeting to be interpreted as a sign of support for the present Geneva talks which does not include them as a principal part of the conflict.
The meeting took place in the headquarters of the Alliance and in the presence of the representatives of the parties which have formed the Alliance.
The meeting was useful to both sides and helped them to understand the situation better. It was an opportunity for Mr. Gordovez to hear directly from the Mujahideen leaders their views about the problem which he is mediating to solve.
ITo doubt the meeting was an important step towards understanding the problem but it would be over-optimistic to think that the solution to the problem is close. The basic demands of the Mujahideen that they and the Soviets should be recognized as the principal sides of the conflict, and the people of Afghanistan should be granted the right for self-determination after the Soviet troops withdrawal, is still in force and shows the principal position of the Resistance.
                                        THE AEGHAN TRAGEDY
The Afghan tragedy is the name of a book printed by the British Refugee Council with the help of a number of other British Relief Organisations.
The book starts with the following paragraph:
Some international crises - the Ethiopian famine, for instance -capture the world's imagination and immediately provoke a cumpassionatn and construct;Ivo rnsponse. The plight of the Afghan
nrnttmi news rn.iu, no. 4, is/zmoa, sFiirk 5
 people has not been one of there. The conflict in Afghanistan is normally presented in terms of superpower politics, arms supplies, war footage, bickering resistance groups and stalled peace talks. The sheer scale of human suffering and the near-total disruption of Afghan society have been largely overlooked.
 About the scale of the tragedy the book; writes:
 The conflict in Afghanistan, now entering its ninth year, has created the largest-scale human tragedy in the world today.
 Afghans make up two-fifths of the world's total refugee population. There are over 5 motion Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran, and tens of thousands in exile elsewhere. Perhaps 3 million more have been displaced within Afghanistan, forced to move to the towns or to safer parts of the countryside.
 This means that around half the country's entire population - 15*5 million at the end of the 1970s, according to government figures -has been uprooted.
 Around a million people are thought to have died in the conflict. Tens of thousands of women have been widowed and children orphaned. Countless numbers of people have been crippled or maimed, have been imprisoned or have disappeared.
 The book goes further to write about the way of life of afghans in the war torn country:
 Many people left inside Afghanistan are worse off than those who have taken refuge abroad. Health, education and other basic services no longer exist in the greater part of the country now outside government control.
 There is virtually no prospect of relief or me.dical attention. The collapse of government health services, including disease control programs, has led to a resurgence of tuberculosis, malaria and measles, made worse by malnutrition. Infant mortality rates and other health indicators have worsened dramatically.
 People forced to I ale refuge in the mountains are often in the worst position. The i.o is less risk of bombardment, but living is precarious with little cultivable land, no irrigation, very limited pasture, scant fuel and a harsh climate. Many families have to live in caves, some even in the open. Isolation from whatever trade routes or bfuams may still be operating means there is little prospect of buying goods, nor is there the cash to buy them.
 Those who have taken refuge in neighboring villages or valleys face the problem of living on other people's hospitality: strain on scarce resources, no means of generating their own income, and ever accumulating debt.
 bands of orphans and children separated from their parents have been reported eking out a living in the valleys by begging and stealing. This is a disturbing measure of the social disruption inside Afghanistan. Before the war such children would have been cared for by the extended family or community.
 Bad though conditions are in many places, especially in the main combat zones, they are not uniform throughout the country. In some
HFGIWII HEIIS UOI.IV, HO. 1,       I5/2/P3BO, \PRIiE 6
areas the economy is working reasonably well. Inns and bazaars have sprung up along the routes used by resistance fighters, army deserters and refugees. The new markets are often controlled by Mujahideen groups who also regulate the movement of grain and the price of goods and services such as transport, as well as setting up basic civil administration.
The new forms of civil administration are rudimentary, fragile, and, , like the communities they serve, vulnerable to military attack. But they may provide a basis for reconstruction of Afghanistan's economy and society as and when hostilities end.
The book also describes the efforts to send humanitarian assistance inside the country:
Efforts to assist people inside Afghanistan are much more controversial than aid to Afghans in exile. A handful of voluntary agencies work inside the country or run cross-border programmes from Pakistan, often operating clandestinely and under conditions' of great difficulty and danger. But such assistance is vital to help Afghans sustain themselves in or near their home areas - where they wish to stay - rather than fleeing abroad.
HEALTH
The impact of the agencies operating inside the country is limited in scale but tremendously important for the communities involved. A few clinics staffed by trained doctors and nurses have been set up to provide primary health care and medicament for war victims. Training of local health workers is emphasised, so that health care can be spread more widely. Hie skills of local tradition birth attendants or "wise women" are built upon to promote better health among women and children.        -
Afghan medical workers ate also being trained in exile to return to Afghanistan and help build up basic medical services. If maintained and. extended, their work will eventually contribute to the reconstruction of health services in a peaceful Afghanistan.
EDUCATION
Attempts are also being made to restore education.
Schooling has been severely disrupted by the war, and very few Afghan children have received systematic education over the last eight years. However, traditional Islamic schools have remained open in some areas, and about 200 schools are reported to have been set up in resistance-held areas with the help of aid agencies. Some of them have training programmes for local teachers so that eventually a wider range of subjects can be taught than the Koranic studie; which form the central focus of the Islamic schools.
ECONOMY
Efforts to rebuild. Afghanistan's devastated economy, especially it agriculture, are even more difficult to implement. A number of ai agencies have supplied seeds and other inputs to communities insid the country. Some have given cash to needy households to buy food i local markets, especially in war-torn districts where the need fo. emergency relief is the greatest.
fiFGWJK HC.US I'BL.iy, K>. 1, 15/2/1968,v PflOE 7
 But wherever possible aid is now being channelled towards rebuilding agriculture and infrastructure. Several agencies have supported a programme to help local communities reprove farming and livestockrearing in eastern Afghanistan. Further assistance of this kind is desparately needed to help more people remain in their home areas and avoid displacement or exile.
The book end with a scries of recommendations presented to and adopted by the International Council of Voluntary Agencies - m influential form comprising of 01 nan-government organizations from 26 countries - in Geneva in October 1987. The recommendations have also boeu presented to Britain's Foreign 8. Commonwealth Office.
                                          RECOMMENDATIONS
1-  All governments should actively support diplomatic initiatives to bring about a political solution which would restore the right of self-determination to the Afghan people.
2- All agencies-govemmental        of non-governmental -      should
substantially increase the amount and scope of their assistance to the Afghan people, both inside and outside Afghanistan.
3-  Such assistance should reflect the needs, values and aspirations of Afghans, allowing them to sustain and develop their society and culture and restoring thoir ability to manage their own lives.
     Governments and voluntary agencies should channel more development aid to communities Inside Afghanistan, thus enabling them to remain in their home areas instead of being forced to flee abroad or become internal refugees.
5- UlfflCR should investigate, as a matter of urgency, tire nonregistration of new arrivals of Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
6-  Assistance to Af gum refugees should not only address their immediate needs but should also be directed toward development programmes and initiatives which would allow them to preserve and develop their society arid culture.
7-  Governments, inter-governmental agencies and NGOs must, fully recognize the heavy burden borns by Pakistan and Iran in giving sanctuary to the refugees, and should where possible direct additional resources to local people in the areas of greatest need in these countries.
8-  HGOs should play a more active role in publicizing how ordinary Afghans, both inside and outside the country, are organizing themselves to sustain their society.
                               FIRST GET RID OF THE SOVIETS AND THEN WORRY ABOUT OTHERS
Iranian Majlis (parliament) speaker, Hashimi Rafsanjard, told tl' Japan broadcasting corporation that Iran will prevent US influent on Afghanistan after the Soviets have left.
                                                    nraiFsii hems m.nj, tin. -t, is/zmoti, rnc.E8
                  ___________________________________________________. \
 These types of stal emoid s by our Irani brothers are repeated now and then need some clarification from the Resistance side.
 It would be logical to deal with the most serious problems that Afghanistan is facing first and that is the occupation of this country by the Soviet Union and the suffering of millions of Afghans. Wien that phase of the struggle lias come to a.'-successful end then we must deal with the power (powers) who may try to spread their influence.
 Ve are thankful to our Irani brothers for their strong political support and allowing more than two million Afghan refugees to stay in Iran, hrut what has been done so far by them to deal with the present problem, forcing the soviets out of Afghanistan is far less than we expected and. much less than the situation requires from then.
 Iran who has been engaged in a war with Iraq, as long as we have been against the Soviets, knows better than anybody else the needs of a people who have to tight a war. If the war is waged by the ordinary people of one country against the army; of a $upei?pqw$r, the problem will be much bigger.
 Restriction of Hujahideen movements in Iran has created nasty problems for the Resistance and has put a negative effect on the overall military activities of the Mujahideen in the Vest and South-Vest of Afghanistan. Coverage of war by the Iranian press and
 electronic media is not adequate nor vary positive.
 Our Irani brothers know that the Resistance against the Soviet invaders in Afghanistan is a popular movement supported by the absolute majority of the Afghan people. Our people are muslins and want to get Afghanistan free from the Soviet occupation and then fora an Islamic government. Therefore, the whole struggle hinges around the key issues of independence from foreign domination and living according to the tenants of Islam,
 We assure brother Al:i Rafsanjam that we have the ability and the determination to oppose foreign influence. Once we              fought
 successfully against the British Empire , now we are fighting Soviet imperialism and If there is any other power to'spread its influence she will face our strong opposition.
 The main issue now is the influence and even the physical occupation of Islamic Afghanistan by Soviet Russia which we have to fight against. The sacred Islamic duty of our'muslin brothers is to help us in our dehail.
 The occupation of Afghanistan has not only created immense cultural, political and humanitarian problems for the Afghans but has also posed serious threats to flic neighboring countries and the region. Iran Is now surrounded from two directions, Horth and East by the Soviet Union which must worry our brothers in Iran, especially those in the very responsible positions in the.Islamic Republic.
 If the remarks of our Irani brothers about American influence in Afghanistan is a warning to the Afghans, it is understandable; but over-emphasising a potential danger (with very small possibilities) will draw world attention from the grave situation in Afghanistan towards secondary issues and .could be very useful for the Soviets.
4
flFGHRtt HtUS 'ifOL.Ki. Kj, 4,    15/2/1983,   PACE 9
   This type of argument also provides a good excuse for the Soviets to ' continue committing their atrocities in Afghanistan under the pretext of defending its borders from the spread of the influence of the other superpower.                                        r
                    A SHORT REVIEW OF THE SITUATION IN BALKH PROVINCE
   This article is based on an interview with Ata Mohammad, Deputy of Mawlavi Alam, Jami'at Chief Administrator (Amir) in Balkh province. He has recently came to Peshawar for consultation with the leader of Jami'at.
                                     ' )
   The year 198? has been a relatively good year for the Mujahideen in the province. Mujahideen scored many victories against enemy targets: Liberating Sholgar district; a successful ambush in Shadian in which a large number of Soviet troops were killed; capturing two posts which were part of the so-called security belt of Mazar city; foiling two enemy attacks in Sholgar and the assassination of a well-known militia commander* for examples.
   The enemy has built a security belt around Mazar to prevent Mujahideen from infiltrating the city. Since there is not enough cover outside the city, large-scale Mujahideen activities have been reduced but they have good contacts inside the city and carry out specific actions against enemy personnel, and military and economic targets.
   The possibilities to increase the level of fighting is great. The gas pipeline is a good target. To do this, there is the need for close cooperation between different groups of Mujahideen; better communication equipments; enough ammunition and specific equipments.
   The Communists are divided as before but it is important to see that new factions are being created by the Soviets. One of these factions call itself 'Kuja1 which indulges in robbery and assassination under the name of the Mujahideen.
   Unity among the existing parties in the area exists but there are also problems which need to be solved in order to do a better job in fighting against the enemy. Political leaders in Peshawar can help by persuading their commanders to cooperate with the Mujahideen from other parties. Jami'at relationship is very good with Sazaan Hasr (a group based in Iran) and in an attack against Sholgar district, Hasr members participated in fighting along with Jami'at.
■ Jami'at fronts in Mazar which are led by Mawlavi Alam have close contacts with Supervisory Council of the North and as long as conditions permit, they try to to co-ordinate their activities. ,
   Balkh province is close to the Soviets border and they have many large bases in this province. The major bases are: Dorahi-Hairatan : (with ammunition factories), Dehdadi Airbase; 18th Division; and a base near the Fertilizer Factory and the Thermal Power Plant.
   Enemy aerial activities have been reduced because of Mujahideen possession of effective anti-aircraft weapons. ; The enemy is relying more and more on long-range rockets and artillery. This tactic has caused a lot of damage to the villages within range of the enemy fire. The enemy also makes'use of wire-guided missile against the MujaMdeen targets.
RFOlinU MEHS VIOL. IV, 110. 1,    15/2/1900,  PyR0E  10
The main Mujahideen difficulty is long and difficult supply routes and ever-increasing transportation costs.
The economic situation in the area is not good. A lot of people have been displaced which need to be supported. Prices are high and in the absence of enough rain famine -will prevail.
Despite, all the difficulties the Mujahideen have been establishing new schools and clinics which are run by newly-trained Afghan doctors. They are helping both the Mujahideen and the people. Shortages of medicine is a problem.
                             THE ENDLESS MIGHTS OF THE VIETNAMESE
The war in Vietnam has ended officially but the suffering of its people still continues. Thousands of people accept the danger of being killed .in the sea to escape the tyranny of a dictatorship in their country.
The Vietnamese once had the sympathy of a lot of people for their continued struggle against foreign domination. When they gained their independence from foreign powers, they found themselves the prisoners of the system which had supported them. The regime in Vietnam has failed to give to its people what it was promising. More than that it has created new problems for its people by invading Cambodia and continuing an aggressive war for 8 years.
Refugees from Vietnam who escape by boats, deserve all sorts of humanitarian support to relieve their pains. It is also important that the international community should put pressure on the Vietnamese government to improve conditions so that these people under the regime would not be forced to choose the dangerous route of escaping by boats.