Voi 4, No 17                          September 1,1988
                Zia killed in air crash
                         Mines threaten refugees' return
    PRESIDENT Zia-ul-Haa was killed In an air incident when the plane carrying him and other senior off icers crashed in the afternoon of August the l?th in the East of Pakistan.
    Gftul&m Ishaq Khan, the Chairman of the senate assumed the responsibility of presidential office as provided for in the constitution.
    Zia s death shocked the Pakistani people, Afghan refugees and the Mujahideen. In this tragic incident 29 others including some high-ranking army officers and the US Ambassador were also killed.
    Zia was laid to rest with full military honours on the lawn of Faisal Mosque in Islamabad. His funeral ceremoney was attended by several heads of states. Hundreds of thousands of Pakistanis participated in the funeral in respect of the departed soul.
    The Mujahideen leaders and a large number of prominent refugee figures attended the funeral ceremony. Zla's sudden death was shocking for the Afghan refugees living in Pakistan. On Friday the 19th of August, the Supreme Council of the Mujahideen Alliance met to discuss the situation. The meeting passed a resolution paying full tributes to the services of the late President
  Zia-ul-Hsw for the cause of jehad in Afghanistan.
     In this meeting it was decided that the big Mosque of Puli-Rheshti in the center of Kabul would be renamed as the Zia-ul-Haq Mosque after the liberation.
     Prof. Rabbsak leader of Jami&t Salami in his condolence message to Ghuiam Is haa Khanf the President of Pakistan, has said that the Muslim world has been deprived of a kind and courageous leader.
      The cause of the accident has not been identified yet but the authorities suspect an act of sabotage. If sabotage is identified as the cause of the incident, the involvement of foreign countries especially the puppet regime and the Soviets can not be ruled out.
     President Zla-ui-Haq took power in Pakistan ten years ago. During his rule Pakistan achieved an important position in the world community by supporting the struggle of Afghans for the liberation of their country,
      No doubt President Zia’s personal comittment to the cause of jehad was a driving force behind this policy of the government of Pakistan.
     The new government has said that there will not be any change in the foreign policy of Pakistan and support for the Mujahideen cause will continue.
   A recent survey by the ILS State Department says millions of mines are left behind as the Soviets are leaving the country and this could pose a major threat to returning Afghan
 refugees.
   "Our estimate is that there are between 10 end 30 million mines in Afghanistan/ Spokesman Charles Redman said at an August ne-ws briefing.
   Mines are the main obstacle in the ^ay of returning refugees. The Soviets and their puppets have mined villages, irrigation channels, fields and pastures. Without an extensive mine-clearing operation it would be very dangerous for the returning refugees and their livestock.
   The major problem in the wf of a
 mine-clearing operation is the lack of data about minefields and the absence of reliable mine detecting equipments.
   Western countries can help in providing mine-cl^rmg equipments and technical advice.
AEGHAH©w Vol4, No 17, September 1,1988, Page 2
                                                     Baghlan
    THE Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Mohlbuiiah fired four rockets into the main Soviet base in Dsshti Kailagai resulting In the huge explosion which killed and wounded 900 Russian soldiers, destroyed four helicopters on the ground,
230 APCs and military vehicles, burned eight depots of heavy arms, bombs and fuel oil os the 11th of August,
    The rockets were fired from the Kuzor Hill about four kilometers from the Soviet base. The enemy depots were burning for two days. The fire initially started from oil-tankers which were hit by the rockets and then extended to the arms-loaded vehicles and heavy arms depots.
    The explosion shattered splinters of tanks and trucks over a vast area and blocked the main Kabul-North highway passing through the area. Meanwhile huge Quantities of military clothes and oil storage were burned, The explosion is considered the biggest ever to have happened in such a strong Soviet base,
    The base is situated near the Salang Highway on a flat area surrouned by small hills heavily mined and patrolled by the Russians.
    Apart from rocket attacks from a far distance, there is virtually no access for the
                                        Mujahideen to approach the
area,
    ft is a base from which the Russians send reinforcements mostly to the North of the country. Sesides this, there are a large number of underground entrenchments built for producing ammunition.
    Kaiiagai belongs to Dooshi district of Baghlan province,
                                             Qandahar
    The Mujahideen from Jam Tat captured the Arghandab district and Walibab Garrison situated 15 kilometers to the North-East of Qandahar city on the 20th of August,
    The district was under heavy fighting for two months during which the Mujahideen wiped out the surrounding enemy bases which finally led to the fall of Arghandab district.
    No details are available yet about the casualties.
    ©The Mujahideen under the command of Haji Habibullah raided militia posts in Bool dak area destroyyiag two tanks, killing or wounding 55 militiamen and capturing 2 others with two heavy * machine guns on the 23th of July.
                                                 Two Mujahideen were
 kilted and five others were
 injured in the operation,
                                                   Kabul
    The Mujahideen from jami 'at raided some DR A posts in Paghman destroying a military jeep in which a DBA commander, a KHAD agent and the district administrator of Paghman were killed.
    The attack which took place on the 5th of August was carried out under the command of Mullah Ezatullah, jami'at commander in Paghman,
    ©In another attack on two DRA outposts on the Paghman-Kabul route on the 6th of August, the Mujahideen destroyed the posts and captured 10 Light weapons,
                                                 Herat
    One hundred enemy soldiers and militiamen headed by their commander, Noorgul, joined the Jam Tat Mujahideen along with their weapons in Ed ran area of Engii district on 25 July.
    Retaliating to the defection, the DRA forces bombed Edran area and inflicted some casualties on the people.
    The defection happened after the Mujahideen under commander Ismael Khan had announced a general amnesty In which he asked all the DRA forces and militiamen to join the Mujahideen,
    ©The Mujahideen
 ambushed a military convoy of the DRA forces In Zindajan area destroying five tanks, three trucks, killing 25 soldiers and capturing nine Katashinkov rifles on the 15th of August,
    The Mujahideen had no casualties.
ATGHAHe'vs Vo14, Mol?, September 1,19®,. Page?
From the diary of Jehad
Part - /
New road to Panjshir
by Mobamxsiad Bs'baq
    I and a group of my fellov Mujahideen . crossed the
 Pak-Afghan border on the 9th of July, It was a happy moment to be in Afghanistan. The first valley is controlled by a local organization calling itself The Islamic Revolutionary Government of Afghanistan1 or Dawiat. This organization is headed by a religious scholar of the Wahabi sect.
                                              Dawiat
    The Dawiat is very strict in dealing with the Mujahideen passing through its area. They must have pass-letters issued by the office of the Dawiat in Chitrah a border town in Northern Pakistan. It also levies taxes on goods passing its territory which reaches up to 10% in most cases.
    In the past the Mujahideen destined tor the North walked about two weeks in Nooristan but now they spent only one day.
    Noor istanis who traditionally raise livestock and farm their limited amount of fields have turned to business during the past ten years of Jehad. They have opened tea houses and using pack animals work in the transportation of goods and people.
    Fortune
    Thanks to their contacts with the Panjshir is. now they are searching for precious stones in their mountains. When we were there we heard the explosion in the mountains which was the work of fortune prospectors. At this time of the year Nooristan is green and full of flowers of all kinds.
  The second pass which separates Nooristan from Badafchshan is the most difficult of ail the three passes leading to the Panjshir valley, it is full of rocks and the Northern side of it was heavily mined by the Communist forces when they controlled the area,
    After one hour's walk from the top of the pass which is 5,000 meters high we saw the remains of a burned-out MI-24 Soviet gunship. One kilometer lower there was an MI'8 helicopter which was damaged but its body was intact. Nobody knows what happened exactly to these two helicopters and when.
    The MI-8 helicopter is used as a shelter for travelers who want to spend the night and continue their journey the next day.
    Landmines
    Mines have claimed the lives of 15 people since the road was opened at the end of last year, The body of some of those killed could he seen lying along the road and nobody dared to bury them because of the fear of losing his life.
    ‘Hie Mujahideen have built a new route to avoid the mine
 fields.
    The natural lake of Munjan which ties at the foot of the pass is very beautiful. Two miles from the lake we came across some abandoned villages and fields. This groups of villages are called Meghnawoot. They were inhibited by the Ismailia community. Like the people of Munjan valley they had a good relationship with the Communist regime of Taraki. When the people rose against the Communist regime they came into conflict with them.
      After the defeat of the Communist government the Ismailia community faced severe problems. Some of them remained in the area but a large number of them fled to the Communist controlled areas along the border with the Soviet Union.
                                                        Ismailia
    The reason for this unfortunate development lies in traditional ill-feeling between the majority of the Sunni and the minority of the Ismailia. the Ismatiia’s mistake to take side with Communists and inability of the Mujahideen organization to defuse the tension after the liberation of the area,
    Since the area was very strategic, because it was close to the Soviets border and the supply lines of the Resistance were passing through it. the Soviets decided to establish military posts in the area.
    From 1981 to the end of £987 the area was controlled by the Communists and the local people became part of the regime militias.
AFGHANIS Vol 4, No 17, Sept&e&fcsr i, 1988, Page 4
From the diary of Jehad....
                                                    Picks
    We saw a group o! people from Munjan valley carrying shovels, picks and other tools to repair the road leading to Nooristan. They were led toy a man who was a militia commander until last year and now is the Mujahideen commander.
    The first Mujahideen post is manned by the Mujahideen belonging to Saved Najmuddin. They were smartly dressed and looked alert and resourceful. From their faces one could say that they were serious people understanding the importance of their job — providing security for the Mujahideen conveys.
    While sleeping under the stars we could see the search lights of the Soviet border towns. From here it is two days walk to the Soviet border.
                                                  Kookcha
    On our way we passed by the captured garrison of Kuran which is located on a small air field along the Kookcha River, Dr. Abdullah one of Maseod's aides who was present in the operation against the garrison, and now travelling with us described hew the Mujahideen launched their attack.
    The size of the garrison was too large and the Mujahideen must have had tremendous difficulties to reach their assigned targets.
    The villages around the captured garrison were populated. Fields were cultivated and the people lived a normal life,
 Uskaeer, a village a few kilometers from the garrison was partially destroyed.
    People had started reconstructing their houses. This village has plenty of apricot trees,
                                                                                             On the top of the hill
 overlooking the village H people are buried. They lost their lives in the Kuran battle. Their graves are marked by special flags which are raised on the graves of martyrs all over Afghanistan. Passer-toys pray for their souls because the liberation of the valley and opening of the route become possible after they sacrificed their lives.
    Soft drink
    From Uskazer to the town of Anjuman is six hours walk. From Anjuman you can go to Panjshir or Takhar.
 The people in this town are making a good deal of business. There are many shops and tea houses.
    Essential commodities are being brought from Takhar and sold to the people. In the shops one can find soft drinks, toilet paper and candies of all types,
    A lapis lazuli mine is located in Kuran-Munjan valley .This mine has been under the control of the Mujahideen since 1979. It is being exploited and the stone is transported and sold in Pakistan, This has had a positive effect on the economy of the region.
    At some stages the presence of the mine was a source of tension among the people, After Keran-Munjans liberation and the reorganization of the area the situation has improved and even the Ismail la community has been given a share in the mine, something they never dreamed ef.
     There Is one day s walk from Anjuman to Panjshir and on the passes there is a beautiful natural lake which is full of trouts.
    The journey from Pakistan to the upper part of Panjshir takes six days, it is an easy and secure route.
    Chilians
    admire
  Afghans
    victory
                                                             THE people of ChiU
                                                           show great interest in
 the struggle of the
 Afghan people and
                                                           admire their courage
 and achievement/1 This was stated by Daoud Mir who visited ChiU on the invitation of a private human rights organisation to tails about Afghanistan.
    The visit started on July the 24th end tested for one week, jam T at delegation had a series of activities including press conferences, talking to university students and meeting with the members of the Islamic community.
    The delegation felt that the people of Chili were eager to know about the developments in Afghanistan but there was no regular flow of information.
    The Chili press, radio and television gave a good coverage to the visit of the delegation.
    According to Daoud, the Afghanis' was a major source of inf ormation for the committee which is propagat ing the cause of Afghans.
    The people of Lat in America can easily identify themselves with Afghans as a part of the third world countries and are eager to discover the factors which made the struggle of Afghans against the Soviets so popular and successful.
r
V
                                            ■AT&HANevs Voil No 17, September i, 1988, Page5
AFGHANews
PO Box 264^h&W&f~Pafci&t9tt Tei: 41301
  EDITORIAL_____________________________________ 1
                            Afghans lose a strong supporter
    President Zias death in an air crash was indeed a great loss to the Mujahideen but It will not hamper the victory of the Mujahideen over the puppet regime in Kabul,
    President 2ia-uf-Has was a great supporter of Jehad in Afghanistan, As the president of the Islamic Republic of Pakistanf he extended every assistance possible to the refugees and the Mujahideen,
    He was personally committed to the cause of the Mujahideen and his comittment had ideological and national-interest grounds.
    President Zia considered the struggle of Afghans against the Soviet invaders a holy war. He felt that supporting a Jehad in Afghanistan was his religious duty.
    Being the leader of Pakistan, he also found it important for the security of Pakistan to oppose the invasion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union,
    Fighting the war in Afghanistan was the job of the Afghans themselves hut the big burden of three million refugees and the provision of opportunities for the Mujahideen to fight their war on the political front were unforgettable services the late President rendered to the Afghan people.
    Taking sides with the Mujahideen in a war which was fought against the Soviet Union needed courage, foresightedness and a spirit of sacrifice, Zla had the courage to stand firm; fomightedness not to deal a half way solution and the spirit of sacrifice to bear the difficulties resulting from the Soviet-sponsored terrorism which claimed many lives in Pakistan,
    Zia was appreciated for his Afghan stand ail over the world and will fee remembered forever because of his services in this respect.
    Despite differences on other issues, the majority of the people of Pakistan went along with his Afghan policies, This could be counted as one of his major achievements.
    Zla was martyred, possibly through a conspiracy designed by the enemys of Afghanistan.
    The Afghan Mujahideen and refugees pay heartfelt tributes to President 2ia. The Supreme Council of the Alliance has renamed Kabul's biggest Mcsaue of Puii-Khttshti as 2ia-ul-Ha$ Moses uc, Refugees held big meetings in which tributes were payed to late President Zia and prayers were offered for his souk
    Zia's death is a great loss for the Afghan Resistance,.They lost a brother who helped them to liberate their country. But this loss wilt not prevent the Resistance from achieving the final victory,
    A positive thing after the tragic incident was the
 peaceful transfer of newer and the assurances by the new President of Pakistan that there will be no change of policy in regard to Afghanistan.
   If the Soviet, India and the puppet regime had any evil designs they were frustrated by the foresightedness of the new leadership of Pakistan and the cooperation of the people of Pakistan with their new leadership,
   if the Soviets comply with the Geneva accords and withdraw their troops totally, the fall of the puppet regime is a matter of time,
   The strength of the Resistance lies in its armed forces in the country and its popular support within the country which will not fade away because of President Zias demise.
   Najib's
  brother
  reaches
                                   US
   The brother of the head of the Kabul regime and his family went to the United States after the U,S government agreed to give them asylum.
   An U.S government . official said; “Seddlqullah Rahi, 37, his wife and two children were accepted to this country as refugees, Elaborate security precautions have been taken,"
   Seddiautlah had joined the Mujahideen along with ' his family in the Panjshlr valley in 19S7. After a stay of 1 i months inside the country, he travelled with the Mujahideen to Pakistan at the beginning of August 198®,
 —  —-— AE&HAHevs Vol 4, Na 17, S®pxmfo®r l< 1988, Page 6
        Russians destroy every survival means in Panjshir
     “IT is here that one can see the vicious, deliberate and wanton destruction of the Communist forces.
     Throughout this region everything possible has been destroyed. There Is barely a home left- standing. Particularly appalling are the villages of Tawafch, Abdara, and Korabsu These villages have been bombarded far beyond the needs of mere destruction to the state where, from a distance, they resemble fr eaks of geological activity,
     The reasoning behind such excessive annihilation of the very existing of human dwellings is impossible to comprehend."
     This was stated in a report prepared by a team of experts who visited the Panjshir valley to assess the scale of destruction and study ways of helping the people in that devastated valley. The team was sent by the relief organisations based in Peshawar at the request of Coaunandef Msssod.
      The delegation observed the return el internal refugee© to the valley. The returning refugees get food assistance from the Mujahideen, This support will be insufficient for the increasing number of returning refugees.
      Therefore, it is essential that immediate provision be made for nutritional requirements of the rapidly i growing population in the valley.
      Having questioned many refugees it became abundantly clear that their prime concern was the
| rebuilding of their homes.
     Most of those who had returned were sleeping under the stars. There is a great need for wood with which to construct the roofs.
  Since most of the standing timber has been destroyed by the occupying forces * this will have to be brought in. It was reported that such roofing timber was available in districts outside the valley, however, the cost of buying and transporting it to Panjshir amounts to approximately 1,400 US dollars per six room house, Virtually no family has such resources.
     About short-term agricultural assistance the delegation recommends the rebuilding of irrigation channels, the supply of good quality wheat seed and the provision of some tractors for plowing and leveling the fields.
       The delegation's recommendation for long-term assistance to revive agricultural activities in the valley include;
     The continued supply of improved seed; the increased supply of tools and materials needed for rehabilitation of irr igatioa channels; the giving of drought oxen to the farmers and introducing some tractors and the supply of agrochemicals for the protection of crops.
       The report stresses the need for Introducing livestock into the valley. It recommends giving cash to the population to buy sheep, goats, milk cows and drought oxen. The need to set up a veter inary clinic in the valley is aiso
 recommended.
    The report emphasises the need for de-mining the valley as a necessary step for re-introducing livestock.
 The report considers the presence of thousands of mines a great problem in the way of rehabilitation and reconstruction.
    The delegation recommends the need for the improvement of medical facilities, retraining el paramedics and nurses and the introduction of a vaccination program. Concerning educational activities in the valley the report stresses the need for reorganizing the schooling system and the provision of proper books,
    To help the reconstruction I of the valley, Masood emphasizes building 200 kilometers of new road and 11 bridges inside the valley.
    The delegation who spent one month inside the country expressed its impression about the visit in the following words;
    "We have been deeply impressed during our journey by those who have returned and were working with the barest minimum to recreate their homes and land. It is our responsibility to ensure that the level of aid provided does not undermine the unique spirit of the Afghans. Their inner strength and self-reliance coupled with an appropriate level of outside assistance will create a solid foundation from which ^ revitalized Afghanistan can emerge/1
[------- AFGHAHe^ Vol 4, Wo 17, September 1,1988, Page?                                         
who s who in th,               e Mujahideen                    MOHAMMAD Ismael Tariq            
Command*                       ?r Maroof                       was born in an influential       
PAHLAWAN Maroof son            and trying to find out good     religious family in 1953 in      
o! Ghulam Dastagir is a group  contacts                        Alishang district. Laghman       
commander of Jam! at           After some time it was          province.                        
operating on the southern      difficult to work In the city,  After graduation from the        
flank of Kabul city,           so he came to the southern      faculty of Islamic law In 1974   
Maroof was horn 35 years       suburbs of Kabul city. There    he was appointed as a judge in * 
ago in Chardeh of Kabul, His   he established his first base,  Gurziwan district of Faryab      
father was a blacksmith        fn 1981, Maroof came to         province.                        
owning a shop in Chardeh.      Peshawar to meet the leader     After the Communist coup         
" 1 was sent to Mahmood        of Jaaii'st. For some months    of 1979 he become a refugee      
! Tarzi School in Kabul, After he stayed in Peshawar.          and joined jansi’at Islam!. He   
i 1 years of education due to  He went back to Kabul and       was appointed the commander      
economic problems I stopped    organised his small group of    of jami at in Laghman.           
my studies and started to      about 59 at Lalander and        jami at became an                
help my father in his fob,"    Depak of Chardeh. Since then    important force in that          
said Mar oof.                  he has been actively fighting   province.                        
While Maroof was               in and out of the city.         Having close contacts with       
working as a blacksmith, the   In 1982 he launched an          Commander Masood he was          
Communist took power in        operation against a Russian     impressed by his way of          
Afghanistan. "1 told my        garrison in Kabul city called   organization of the Mujahideen.  
family to allow me to join     "Quai Markaai" (central         He wanted to introduce this      
the Mufahideen. Despite my     forces). Many Russian           new system in his area. It       
father's hesitation, my        soldiers were killed. He took   proved a costly adventure. His   
mother agreed and said 1       prisoner a Russian soldier.     commanders who had built         
hare four sons and 1 want all  In 1983 he attacked the         their own power did not go       
to fight the enemy of God and  Soviet Embassy with rockets     along with his reformist steps   
the people," Maroof added.     in which he claims some         and took % distance from him.    
He contacted Mullah            Russians were killed,           The rival party In the area      
• Abdul Qayoom who had a       5n 1955 he captured             exploited the situation and      
group of 25 people.            another Russian soldier         Tariq was forced to abandon      
■ Commander Qayoom accepted    called Atexl during an          most of his areas.               
him to work in the city of     operation in Tapa-e-Tajbaig.    Tariq had a difficult life       
Kabul. Maroof started his      Later he exchanged that         but he never surrendered.        
' work as a city fighter       prisoner with a known           During these difficult periods   
distributing night letters     commander, Toofan.              which lasted for several years   
                               ■                               Tariq was helped by              
                                                               Commander Masood who saw in      
                                                               him the abilities of leadership. 
                      Jamiat commander                         He had started to regain his     
                        assassinated                           influence.                       
A famous jami at commander in Laghman province was             During the fifth session of      
killed on August 13.                                           the Supervisory Council of the   
Mohammad Ismael Tariq, 35, Jami'at Islam! Commander in         North he was appointed as the    
Laghmas and the newly appointed chief of the Eastern Zone of   head of the newly established    
the Supervisory Council of the North has been reported killed  East Zone of the Supervisory     
by the Mufahideen belonging to Hezb isfami (Hekmatyar).        Council of the North.            
The sad news of Tariqs murder was received with a sense        No doubt Tariq had a             
of shock and grief by the leadership of Jami at.               controversial personality. He    
The irony is that Hessb sent a delegation to Masood in an      had a deep knowledge about       
apparent attempt to improve the relations of Hezb with the     different tribes and clans.      
Supervisory Council of the North but soon after the return of  Tariq‘s steadfastness in         
the Hezb delegation an important figure of the Council was     following his aim was            
killed by members of that party. (See obituary on column 3)    admiratoie.He suffered           
                                                               psychologically and physically   
                                                               to a degree which a normal man   
                                                               can not think of.                
                                                                                                
.   --    dtEOHANews Voll No 1?, September 1,1988, Paged
Opinion by Abdul Wall [
                  Mujahideen score major victories in North
    THE fait of the two provincial capitals of Takhar sad Kundua is an indication of the strength of the Resistance in the strategic Northern region.
    As soon as the Soviet forces decided to leave Takhar and Kundua fighting against the poppet regime intensified. The poppet regime tried to consolidate its position by sending new troops. The new troops tried to establish new posts around Takhar provincial capital in mid-July hut faced the fierce Resistance of the local Mujahideen,
    As a result they not only could not establish any new posts hut they lost the war and one hy one the three cities of Taiuqan, Khanabad and Kundug felt into the hands of the Mujahideen, the Mujahideen captured hundreds of guns and a large amount of military and non-military supplies.
    The conflicting opinions expressed hy the Soviets and their puppets about the city of Qundus made the news about the liberation of that city a first-page story for the world media,
    Kabul Radio in Its domestic services accused Jami'at Commander Arif Khan and Qari Rahmatuilah for what the radio called it "subversive activities of the extremist elements,"
    Qunduz remained in the hand of the Mujahideen for one week. The Soviet troops attacked the city and their airforce bombed it heavily. According to the latest information available civilian casualties due to aerial and heavy artillery bombardments
have been considerably high and bombing still continues. Jami at which is a leading force in the region pisyed an important role in the fighting but other organisations present in the area were also involved,
   it sould he made clear here that the liberation of the three cities in no way was a planned operation by the Supervisory Council of the North, it was a local initiative involving local forces. This is a clear evidence of the weakness of the enemy and the strength of the Resistance forces.
   The battle for the liberation of the three cities has provided an opportunity for the Mujahideen to study the war of the cities and identify problems connected to it.
   When the full force of the Mujahideen is deployed against the puppet regime it win not have any chances of survival. That day is not too far,
   Explosion kills 11 refugees
   ELEVEN Afghan refugees including five women were killed and three others were injured when their vehicle hit a landmine in Kuram Agency on August the 22th.
   It is believed that the mine was planted by the Kabul regime agents bn the road where the vehicle carrying the refugees passed.
   aBMnmnBmungnMHt
 Regime blamed for increased terrorism
    THE US State Department * annual report on terrorism says that the Kabul regime is responsible for much of the increase in state-sponsored terrorism.
    According to the report the Soviet-control led secret police of the Kabul regime has carried out a series of bomb attacks in Pakistan which have kilted 23** people and Injured a large number of others In 1987,
    The report does not blame the Soviets directly for terrorist activities in Pakistan but it is obvious that every move of the puppet regime is controlled by the Soviets and that country can not escape responsibility for the increase of state-sponsored terrorism.
    Pakistan releases            j
  Soviet pilot          |
    THE Pafclstsa government has handed over the pilot of a Soviet 5U-25 aircraft to the Soviet embassy as a gesture of goodwill. The plane was shot down on August the 4th by the Pakistan air force m North Wasiristan when it violated Pakistan air space. According to the Foreign Off ice, the pilot was handed over to the Soviet charge-id1 affaire in the presence of a representative of the UN Good Office Mission to Afghanistan and Pakistan i UNCOMAP).
    It should be mentioned that earl ier this year the crews of a Soviet helicopter who were captured in Chitrai, North of Pakistan were handed over to the Soviet Embassy as a sign of goodwill.
Yol 4, No 18
September 15.1988
Intruders will be shot
down: Yaqoub Khan
    THE repeated intrusion by Soviet-made planes into Pakistan territory and carrying out of bombing missions is considered a clear violation of the Geneva accords signed some months ago.
    Five Soviet-made bombers raided two villages in Shabqadr area, near Peshawar killing one person and injuring 24 others on September first.
    This was the first time that an area so deep into Pakistan territory was bombed.
    On September 5. Soviet planes intruded 50 Kilometers into Pakistan territory‘and bombed rural areas in Dir District of N.W.F.P, killing two and injuring six others.
    The next day four aircrafts which had carried out bombing missions in Dir area were intercepted by PAF planes and one of the intruding planes was shot down.
    As a result of the earlier bombing of the intruding planes a 70-year old man was killed.
    The incidents were brought to the attention of an UN observer team (UNGOMAP) and they visited the bombing sites.
    It was not clear whether the planes were flown by the Soviets or DRA pilots. Soviet pilots have been responsible
 for some of the earlier violations.
    It may be recalled that early in August the Pakistan air force shot down a violating SU-25 Soviet bomber and its Russian pilot was captured. But, as a gesture of goodwill, the Pakistan government handed over the pilot to the Soviet Embassy in the presence of an UN inspection team.
    The Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahibsada Yaqoub Khan, before his departure for Nicosia for the non-aligned movement conference, warned that Pakistan would not hesitate to shoot down the planes which violated its air space.
    He said to the journalists: "We have shot down two such planes in the past and we will not hesitate to do so in the future."
    He further said "If they (the Russians and regime) feet they can pressure us by such violations, they are sadly mistaken."
    The frequent air space penetration and bombing of Pakistan territories by the joint Soviet and regime air forces is considered a clear violation of the Geneva accords.
    The issue of increased violation of Pakistan territory from air and ground by the puppet regime and the Soviets was also raised in the conference of
 the NAM in Nicosia by the Pakistani delegation.
    The Foreign Minister of Pakistan told the conference that since signing the Geneva accords on June 14 the Kabul regime have violated the Geneva accords more than 300 times. He stud that there have been 77 cases of air violation. 200 cases of ground violations and 60 cases of sabotage incidents.
    The Kabul regime and ' Soviets have repeatedly denied the charges that they have been involved in border violations. □
 Drought hits border city
    THE people in Samangan province are facing severe food shortages due to lov farm products resulting from little rainfall and aerial bombardment of the crops by Russians.
     Commanders from jami'at in Samangan hove asked for food assistance to deal with the worsening si treat ion. They say that more than 170 harvests and a large number of gardens around Khulm, the provincial capital, have been bombed by the Soviets.
    They have appealed to relief organizations to provide emergency food assistance for the people. □
ATGHASe^s Vol 1 Ho 10, September 15,1988, Page 2
f— -----;---:—~->
                              News
                               *4t4
             from the battlefields
 Takhar province
    THE Mujahideen from Jami'at pushed back an enemy offensive on Taliqan city killing 25 soldiers, wounding 50 others, takiog prisoner 16, capturing 21 light weapons and % Dschfc machine gun on the 3rd of September.
   The enemy was forced to retreat and the Mujahideen are still controlling Taliqan.
 Parwan province
    In a series of Mujahideen operations on the southern Salang, all the regime posts in the area has been either captured or managed to escape The operations which lasted for 20 days also resulted in the capture of 100 rifles and more than 100 DRA soldiers.
   Only the Russian forces are stationed on the Southern part of Salang.
   Meanwhile, in another operation on the militia forces in Jabaisaraj area, the Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Brig, jailani took prisoner 30 militiamen and seised 25 light weapons. The rest of the militias escaped and the Mujahideen took control of the Eastern flank of Qaiai Surkfa (Red Fort) where Soviet forces are based.
  Kabul province
     The Mujahideen from jami at under the command of Mullah Ezaiullah ambushed a
 DRA military column on the Kabul-Paghman main road destroying 5 tanks, capturing 30 light weapons, 3 machine guns and a mortar in the past 10 days. They also took prisoner 29 DRA soldiers in the operation.
   The Mujahideen in a rocket attack hit Kabul Airport and destroyed 5 enemy aircraft on the ground. Besides this, they carried out rockets attacks on Qargha Military Division and on Police Academy.
   •The Mujahideen from jami'at under the command of Mohammad Ksnif attacked enemy forces in Saroobi, destroying three posts, killing IQ DRA soldiers and. capturing 4 machine guns, 5 field binoculars and a hoc of hand grenades on August 5th. The posts were situated in Tangi Abrishumt at the mouth of Saroobl district.
   One Muiahid and some animals were killed when the enemy artillery bombarded the area in retaliation.
 Baghlan province
   A group of DRA soldiers and militiamen numbering 100 joined Mujahideen in Pull-Khumri district bringing with them 40 Kalashinkov rifles, 12 light weapons and heavy machine guns and an anti-tank rocket launcher. The group was* latter transferee! to a safer place on the outskirts of the district.
                                            Meanwhile, on August
6th. 200 militiamen surrendered to the Jami'at Mujahideen in Hasantal area along with their weapons, Hasantal is located about 15 kilometers North-East of Baghlan where Jami at has a stronghold commanded by Arbab Juma.
  Zabul province
    The Mujahideen from Jami at ambushed a DRA military column destroying four vehicles, killing 20 soldiers and taking prisoner 15 others. They also captured 25 Kaiashinkov rifles on the first of August.
   The Mujahideen lost two men and six others were injured.
Qandahar province
    The Mujahideen clashed with DRA forces in Shah Walikoot District capturing 8 soldiers including an officer, destroying more than 10 tanks and trucks and killing over SO soldiers.
   Some Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
   Herat province
     The Mujahideen raided a DRA base in Guzara area capturing 54 Kaiashinkov rifles, one machinegun and taking prisoner 3 members of KHAD.
   The area was liberated from the presence of the enemy and is now under Mujahideen control.
   The next day. the Mujahideen attacked DRA militiamen hideouts in Kalata border area, killing 20 militiamen, taking prisoner four soldiers including two officers and seizing 1Q Kaiashinkov rifles.
   Later DRA forces bombed a number of villages but no casualty figure is yet known.
   Soviet forces are still stationed in Hem. □
--------- " AfGHAStro* ?0l4> Hota, September 15,1988, Page?
       Regime seeks Afghan solution in space
    THE space flight of the * puppet regime‘s officer was designed to get publicity for a regime vhich is losing a war of survival.
    AMul Ahmad Mohammad, s Kabul regime army colonel was sent to space aboard Soyoz to join the space station of Mir on August 29.
    Long before the flight took place the propaganda machinery of the regime and Soviets projected the mission as an important event for Afghanistan and a sign of ‘ friendship1* between the Soviet Union and the regime.
    Both Soviet and regime sources stressed the economic
      PROF. Burhanuddln        j
  Rabbani wifi assume the      I
  responsibilities of the      {
  chairman of the Alliance for three months from September 15th.
      Prof. Rabbani is the leader of jam! at. Islam! Afghanistan, one of the constituent members of the seven party al i iaace of the Mujahideen. The post of the president is assumed by one of the 7-party leader on a rotational basis tot a period of three months.
      The time that Prof.
  Rabbanl is assuming the post Is critical. Halt of the Soviet troops have left and if the Soviets comply with the Geneva accords the rest of the troops have to leave not later than February 15th 1989.
      The important task before | the Alliance is consolidation and broadening the base of the Alliance. There is a need ]
 aspects of the flight but it is believed that the mission could be used Tor military purposes in the war against the Mujahideen. But the main aim is neither economic nor military but propaganda,
   Soviets have a traditional use of scientific achievements to promote their political and ideologies! aims.
   Sending the first woman to space was designed for the purpose of propaganda.
   A joint space mission for the countries having solid Industrial and scientific foundations is Indeed a step forward. But the joint Syrian-Russlan and Afghan-Russian space flights
 for broadening the base of the Alliance by including other parties {mainly belonging to the Shis sect) in the Alliance.
   it has already been decided to send a delegation to Tehran to negotiate with the concerned parties. Prof, Rabbani will be a suitable person to follow it more closely.
   The current spokesman of the Alliance has to find a formula based on which better cooperation between the Resistance parties in the military and political fields material tees, In order to win the war against the Soviet-backed regime of Najibuiiah and then run the country in a smooth way, close cooperation of all the parties in the Resistance is important.
   Only time will tell how successful he will be in his difficult mission, 0
  have nothing to do with scientific progress.
     Afghanistan is % backward country with little achievements in the scientific arena. The attention by the pre-war regimes to improve the situation was slow and the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan destroyed what was achieved.
     The Kabul University and the higher educational institutions were purged by the Communists and few professors have remained there. The rest were either killed or have left the country,
     The country is in an appalling economic situation. Kabul city which has always been under the control of the Communists does not have enough drinking water, housing facilities, medical services, schools and essential commodities like food, and fuel. Electricity is a luxury for the party people and Soviets,
     Having ait these problems how one can justify a cosmic flight as a sign of technical progress in the country.
     The timing of the flight was designed to get publicity for the regime at a critical time,
     HaU of Soviet troops have left Afghanistan and according to the Geneva accords the rest has to leave before February 15th, It is commonly believed that the survival of the regime will be in jeopardy after the Soviets complete their withdrawal.
     By including a puppet officer in the space mission, the Soviets wanted to show that the regime is strong and stable, and can survive even | after February 15th, 0
              Jaraiat leads Alliance for three critical months
ATOHAHetre Voll No SB, September 15-1988, Page A
who s who in the Mujahideen
Commander Arif
    SABIQ Noorf known as Arif Khan, was born in a Fushtoon family In Zakhail village in Kunduz province 1951.
    Arif Khan studied upt© 12th grade in the High School of Shirkhaa. * Years after completion of his studies he was then given a job to work as statistics officer. After two years, he became manager of an agricultural bank in Imam Sahib." said his causin Was it Noor who works in the Advisory Board of Jami'at in Peshawar.
    After the Soviet invasion of 1979, Arif Khan, took refuge in Pakistan, In 1930 he went back along with 60 Mujahideen to Badafchsfc&a to fight the enemy and stayed there for two months.
    "At the end of 1931 he was sent by jami’at along with 30 Mujahideen to Kunar province to participate in the operation of Asmar DRA garrison which finally fell into the hands of the Mujahideen. From Kunar he went to Andarab District where he worked with the late
    SCHOLARS, diplomats and political analysts of different countries expressed the need for continuing support for the Afghan struggle in a meeting of the International People s Solidarity Conference on Afghanistan' which was held on 24-26th August in Jakarta. Indonesia.
    In the meeting the scholars praised the courage and determination of the Afghan people in their struggle for freedom. They felt the need to put pressure on the Russians to complete their withdrawal of troops.
 Commander Zablhullah on a joint front formed by the Mujahideen of the three provinces of Mazar, Kunduz and Baghian. remembered Wasil Noor, .
    Later it was decided that Arif be sent to Kunduz to help organize the Mujahideen. In Qunduz he worked closely with the late known Commander Arbafe Haider.
    Arif Khan has about 1,500 armed men who are active in and around the city of Qunduz and some districts like Goortaipa and Chard ar&.
    He is runing a civil administration having strong command over law and order. Arif Khan is a member of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) for which he attended a meeting this year.
    Arif Khan played a key role in liberating Qunduz city recently. DRA radio and TV have launched extensive propaganda against him and other commanders involved in the liberation of Qunduz.
    Arif Khan is married and has two sons. G
   It was also stressed that the Afghan people should be given every possible support to gain their freedom. A delegation of the Afghan Resistance was also present in the meeting.
   An ironic incident which happened in the conference was that a Soviet diplomat entered the conference hall without being invited. He was asked to leave but returned the next time. When he was denied access to the conference hall, he stayed outside the hall for 45 minutes. 0
 Meeting asks for coutnter measures against Sovietization
    A seminar on Afghanistan cal led for preparing a comprehensive reconstruction of Afghanistan on the line of Marshal plan1,
    A two-day seminar on the theme the "Future of Afghanistan; An overview” was organized by the Mecca-based Muslim World Congress.
    The Muslim World Congress was founded 60 years ago to defend the freedom of the people, It has observer status in the U.N.
    Several Pakistani scholars read out their academic papers in the seminar. Dr. Inamallah Khan who presided over the seminar urged the Islamic countries to provide scholarships to Afghan youth to counter the Soviet brain-washing of the Afghan students.
    Dr. Mar oof Dawalibi, president of the World Muslim Congress said that the struggle for building a new Afghanistan will be a bigger task than its liberation.
    The study group of the Congress paid rich tributes to the Afghan people for resisting Soviet aggression and lauded the bravery of the Mujahideen.
    Mr. Dawalibi revealed that a delegation of the congress met with the high-ranking Soviet officials in Moscow and discussed with them the Afghanistan issue.
    Being concerned about its image in the Muslim world because of the invasion of Afghanistan, the Soviet Union has tried to put a compromising face with the Islamic organizations. The invitation of the Muslim World Congress delegation is in line with this policy. Q
               Jakarta Conference backs Mujahideen struggle
AE&HANots Volt No 18, Sftptemtw 13,1988, Page3
   AFGHANews
                               PO Box 264, Peslisvar-PaScistatt Tel: 41381
 EDITORIAL
           Firmness answer to Soviets' adventurous designs
     REPEATED aerial violation deep inside Pakistan, sabotage incidents and ground violation of the borders of Pakistan by the puppet regime mth the consent of the Soviet Union have created serious doubts about Soviet intentions to disengage themselves from the tear in Afghanistan.
     The escalation has taken place immediately after the tragic death of President Zia. Violations have increased alter months of intense propaganda by the Soviets and the puppet regime about the alleged violations of the Geneva accords by Pakistan,
     On one hand the Soviets want to test the nerve of the new leadership of Pakistan, on the other hand they want to show that their puppet's act of aggression is a reaction to the “violation** by Pakistan,
     The incursion inside the Pakistan territory comes at a time when this nation has left a tragedy behind and is preparing to hold elections. Intimidation by the Soviets, extensive propaganda against Pakistan and physical threats are used to force the new leadership to change its stand on Afghanistan.
     The poor performance of the puppet troops in the battlefields and the possibility of the defeat of the regime at the hands of Mujahideen has compelled the Soviets to behave irresponsibly.
     The Soviets had miscalculated the strength of the Resistance and were dreaming of increased clashes between the Mujahideen over the areas they were supposed to evacuate. When the Mujahideen drove the puppet forces from some strategic areas and even liberated some provinces , the civil war which the Soviets were dreaming of did not materialise, and they became worried.
     The Soviets are running out of time and as they approach the 15th of February, they are more nervous because they have realised the regime which they promoted in Kabul years ago is facing destruction at the hands of the people of Afghanistan.
     To buy time for the regime the Soviets are behind a pretext to breach the Geneva agreement by delaying troops withdrawal and escalating the war against the Mujahideen.
     Aerial bombing of Kunduz by the planes flying from the bases inside Soviet territory is a sign which shows that the Soviets will go to the extremes of breaching the Geneva accord to relieve its psychological shock resulting from the victory of the Mujahideen, (Turn to page 6)
    THE Prominent Pakistani religious scholar. Maw I ana Abdul Hag, died in Peshawar at the age of 77,
    He was the founder of Darul-Ul(wmi-Haqqaai in which a large number of students, including Afghans studied.
    The Maw 1 ana was a strong supporter of Jehad In Afghanistan. He was also at the forefront of the campaign of the Ulema to implement Sharia law in Pakistan.
    Besides being a scholar he was also a popular politician elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan.
    His demise after the tragic death of President Zia-ul-Haq in an air crash is a loss for the Mujahideen.
    The Maw I ana has a lot of admirers from the Mujahideen and Afghanistan Ulema. Prof. Rabbani paid a visit to the house of the Maw 1 ana to condole with the grieved family. □
 Thousands of Afghan Kids brain-washed in USSR
    THE Daisy Newspaper of the regime reported in its July the ?th Issue that the Kabul regime is sending 3,380 young children to the Soviet Union this year for recreation.
    The daily added that every year thousands of children are sent to Soviet Central Asia for schooling and entertainment.
    It further wrote that 8,900 children have been sent in the past seven years. 0
AEGHAHews Vofl Ho i8, September 13,1988, Page 6
 j Editorial"
     Buying time for the regime is a calculated step. The Soviets think that time is in favor of the Kabul regime. The longer It can hold on, the better the chances of its survival would he. There is some truth in this way of thinking. The Geneva accords submitted the puppet regime as a side in the conflict. This has put the regime on favorable political ground.
     If the regime which is a member of the UN and NAM is net defeated quickly the Soviets hope that some countries will recognize it, this development will tilt the political balance in its favor.
     It is a testing time for the Resistance, for the government and the people of Pakistan and for all those who would like to see an honorable peaceful solution of the Afghanistan issue. The Mujahideen must act promptly and properly to bring the regime to its knees. United action is the key to this achievement.
     it is also a testing time for the government and people of Pakistan. They have to stand firm in defending their principled positions and render any possible help to Afghans to exercise their rights for self determination.
  Peace will come to Afghanistan if the puppets who are the product of blatant aggression are m more in control of the destiny of the Afghan nation.
     The world also has responsibilities to put pressure on the Soviets to stop its acts of aggression in Afghanistan, and leave the people of Afghanistan to decide their future.
     The world must not forget that the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan is m immoral and Illegal act and the killing of one million Afghans is a crime which the Soviets have committed. They are still killing Afghans and continuing to impose a regime on the people of Afghanistan which is disliked by Afghans.
     The terms of the Geneva agreement should not be used to justify aggression and continue crimes against Afghans.
     Moral and diplomatic pressure exerted by the world community played a vital role In forcing the Soviets to withdraw some of their forces. Continuation of pressure to complete their withdrawal is very important. □
                           Prof. R abb an i promises equal opportunities for women
     This interview was conducted by Tony Davis of Asiaweek
      Q. Is Shariah law suitable given Afghanistan's tribal way of life?
      A. True, traditional and tribal customs exist. But the Afghan nation has always been ready to give up such customs in the interests of the Shariah. Kabul's efforts to attract tribes on the basis of tribal and traditional interests have failed. People fought on the basis of the
Quran and the Shariah; they have not given these up.
   Q. What is the difference between 'fundamentalists” and “moderates”?
   A, I don't believe in this distinction. Everyone is a "fundamentalistL who believes in the Quran as the revealed word of God. We have differences over matters of form, not substance. For example, in our relations with
  the West, some say it is not % good thing to travel there; others say it's good. These are tactical differences.
     Q. Would a post-war Islamic system be a one-party system?
     A. A multi-party system is permissible within an Islamic framework, but it doesn't imply a political race for narrow partisan interests, Rather, there should be effective control over and criticism of the work of ! government. Parties should propose (alternative! plans and platforms; if these are generally accepted, that party could became part of the government or form its own government.
     Q. Can an Islamic Afghanistan accommodate the traditional Leya Jifgah (Grand Council)?
     A. There is a precedent in Islam for a council of respected citizens and elders. Such a council has points in common with the Loya Jirgah but not as it was constituted in the past, in most cases, those participating were chosen based on the interests of the ruling family or government of the day. We need a reformed Loya jirgah.
     Q. How do you see the role of women in an Islamic Afghanistan?
     A. While there are differences in physiology and nature which cannot be changed, Islam views both men and women as human beings with equal rights. Women cannot be deprived of education or of participating in the social affairs or pusuing a career. They should be permitted to do whatever they are capable of, provided they don't forget their duties in the home.
     Q. Do you foresee problems with the Shia minority?
      A. I hope not. We wilt definitely consider the fights of our Shia brothers. In the past they deprived of much. This won't be the case In the future, D

h
AFGHAN 8 vs Veil No IS, Ssptsmbw* 15,1988, Pegs?7
Fr&m the Diary  Jehad
Part-2
       Mixed feelings of sorrow and joy prevailed devastated valley
                  By Mohammad Es'haq
   I entered P&njshir after crossing Aajuman Pass on July 15*
   The first attractive sign was the presence of some camels and flocks of sheep belonging to some Kochis (nomads). These people used to come to Panjshir before the war. During the past ten years few of them could make their yearly journey there due to security problems along the way and danger of aerial bombard meat The Kochis have been supportive to the Jehad and some of them earned great respect from the Mujahideen and civilian population for their services to internal refugees during the war.
        Flower
   It is a long walking distance from the pass to the first village in Peryan but the scenery was very beautiful. The valley was green and a beautiful river was flowing in the middle of it. Wild flowers of all colors made the valley more attractive.
    In a shop in the village of Chemar 1 wanted to buy barley for my horse and a few meters of rope. The old shopkeeper had the barley and the rope but he had I neither scale nor yard stick. It took some minutes before we could borrow a scale and yard stick from another shop to weigh the barley and measure the rope. The old man like other people in the area was a new-comer to the business.
    The war situation and the presence of a large number of passers-by had provided an opportunity for him to earn money.
     Prices here were much lower than Anjuman. The reason for lew prices was the opening of the road in the valley which had decreased transportation costs and eliminated several middleman in the business.
     Paryaa housing styles are changing. People are building new houses with straight walls, targe windows, toilets and bathrooms. This has became possible due to the improvement in the economic life of the people during ten years of the war.
                                                       Peryan
     Peryan being far away from the main Soviet bases in the valley and having no road useable by vehicles was never occupied. It has been bombed but not heavily.
     The other reason for better economic conditions In this pan of the valley is a booming business of lapis lazuli and other essential goods.
     Transportation of goods and people is a good source of income to the local people.
  The land in Peryan was cultivated but due to traditional ways of farming, and lack of fertilizer, improved seed and agrochemicals, farm yields are very low.
           School A good sign was the introduction of vegetables in the area by displaced families from lower parts of the valley. There was a primary school and a religious Madrassarin Kewjaa village of Peryan. It was good to see that children were going to school in the morning and returning at
 noon,
     Dashti Riwat is connected j to Peryan through a narrow valley in in which the main Panjshir river flows. The Mujahideen have decided to extend the road from Dasht Riwat to Peryan. The construction of this 20 kilometer long section is about to be completed.
     The ten years of war has taught the people of the valley the importance of road transportation. Now that the Soviets have left the valley and the puppet forces do not have the strength to attack by land the people feel safe enough to extend the road net work.
     They used very primitive equipment to build the road. This makes it a slow and tedious job. A bulldozer or tractor with blade attached could work more than one hundred men. Rock-blasting equipments make the job much easier,
                                                          £h©acii
     Dasht! Riwat is the first major town In the upper part of the Panjshir valley, It was half-inhibited at the time I visited the area, A few shops had opened. Trucks were bringing goods to the town.
     The booming shopping center in the upper part of the valley is Khench Bazar, Here you can buy almost anything available in the Kabul markets .
     As the truck by which we were travelling moved further down the valley scale of destruction increased. We passed through Pushghcor which was liberated one year ago. The Communist positions were (Turn page to ft)
—--------------AFGKANew Volt No 18, September 13,1988, Page8
From the diary of Jehad....
 stilt to be seen sad the body ofa Russian helicopter was lying in the middle ©f a green corn field,
    Shahs a few kilometers lower Than Pushghoor was littered with tens of destroyed enemy tanks and trucks. By seeing the destroyed enemy vehicles besides the house of a poor farmer one had mixed feelings of joy and sorrow.
                                                     Garrison
 We passed through Baharak Garrison which was abandoned in the spring when the Communist forces fled in disarray and did not have the time to destroy It, The Muiahideen had decided to keep the garrison the way it is and use it as a training center.
    A little lower there was a village called Sangona, Five years ago 1 met Commander Masoed in this village. The village was famous for Its large mosque and sweet grapes. But I did not see anything there when 1 passed through.
    From Baharak to Bazarafc, the whole area was full of destroyed tanks and trucks. Thanks to the courage of the Mujahideen, especially to Commander Muslim, the enemy will never forget the 1 esses that have been inflicted on it in this area.
    Bazarak and Rukha were the most destroyed towns. Rukha was the widest and the most populated part of Panjshir. Its high school had 12,000 students. It had two hig mosques and hundreds of shops.
    The ten years of war and four years of total occupation had reduced it to a pile of rubble.
    What the Soviets have left behind were two living blocks, a hospital and one school and one administrative building. The Soviets set on
 fire their command center before leaving the valley.
    1 saw huge ammunition and fuel dumps in a village called Shast, The air stripe and the defensive positions the Soviets had built has changed the face of the ground and needs thousands of hours of manual work to rebuild the irrigation channel and level the fields for cultivation.
    The situation of the road was appalling. In some areas It was more like a dry canal rather than a road. Thanks to the big and powerful Soviet trucks which could travel on this road.
    Trees were cut and the houses were razed to the ground,
    If the road situation Is not improved, it will be closed to traffic in the coming winter due to mud.
    Mines pose a serious threat to the returning refugees. The Mujahideen have defused some areas but defusing ail the mines in the valley is a master task which can not be done quickly and it needs equipment. Lack of proper mine-detecting equipment and absence of information about minefields are serious problems in the way of clearing the valley from mines.
                                                   Livestock
    As more people return the danger will increase.
 Children and livestock wifi be the first victims of Russian minefields.
    There was no sign of any sort of animals in the lower part of the valley. No cats, no dogs, no donkeys and no cows. Even the wild animals like jackals and foxes were not laying their feet in the valiey because of the mine fields. Now and then the sound of a mine explosion could be heard in the distance. It could have been set off by a
  maui or a wild animal.
    What tbe Russians left behind was a valley littered with scrap metal, empty cans of conserved food, pieces of soldiers uniforms and empty cases of all sorts of ammunition. Between Rukha and Bazarak there was a pasture in the form of an island surrounded by the river.
     Before the war tens of children of the surrounding villages grazed their cows and played games of ail sorts. It was turned into a rubbish dump fey the Soviet army. It is mined too. Where will the children of the surrounding villages graze their cow* and where should they play games when they return?
       Mosquitoes
     How can the old man fish on the bank of the river when the danger of a mine explosion will always threaten his life?
     The Mujahideen were complaining of mosquitoes which give them a hard time, Before the war mosquitoes were net a problem for the people,
     in Rukha I met Commander Guihaider, He is an impressive man with an interesting record of achievements. He was about 16 when he joined the Mujahideen. Soon he became famous for his courage and the children of the town sang songs for him,
     He lost one of his legs in a mine explosion. After fixing an artificial limb in London he returned to the valley and was chosen as the commander of 200 Mujahideen in Rukha. He led the Mujahideen during a critical phase of jehad.
       According to a commander the presence of Gulhaider in a group of the Mujahideen gives the group life and energy. □