AFGHAN NEWS
No. 12
8-8-85
P-l* 0
                                      ■PAN J SHIR _ VA LLEY .
                (The report is based on Commander Masoud's letter)
  2-7-85
  The fighting between Mujahideen and the enemy forces at Shaba started at 6sp.ra and lasted until 2sp.m, The enemy forces were def-, eated and suffered heavy losses under the Mujahideen. The fighting resulted in the destruction of 3 Soviet tanks and the killing of about 20 soldiers. The wreckage from the tanks is still lying in the area.
  2-7-85
  Fighting between Mujahideen and the enemy forces which la.sfed for eight hours at Shaba, inflicted many casualties on the enemy. The. report says that enemy air power with the help of 8 Jets and 2k Heh-icopters bombarded the area around Shaba. The enemy also used heavy artillary(D-30) guns which are considered to be heavier than ever. The report adds that the enemy's aim at Shaba was to pass it f«r the North.
  3Z7Z8'5
  Eight soldiers reportedly killed four of their officers at Tambana (the second part of the Pangshir valley 50 km from the Southern, entrance to the valley) and brought their arms and ammunitions set
  to the Mujahideen. ■
  3=7;85
l4Soldiers from an enemy post at Poojawa surrendered along with their arms (P.K, 14 AK-47) to the Mujahideen,
  ^-7-85
  Twenty trucks and 6 tanks were destroyed during an operation by Mujahideen at Malaspa.
  5Z7Z85
  'Two tanks were destroyed by anti-tank mines planted by Mujahideen.
  5Z7=85
  Mujahideen destroyed four tanks and burnt 12 trucks at Abdara.
  6Z7Z85
  In two different operations, Mujahideen were able to destroy three tanks and two trucks at Manj.awox and Astana.
  6-7-85
  Mujahideen from from Manjawor in a most successful operation at Malaspa destroyed 25 vehicles including tanks. The same day 12 soldiers along with their arms (7 AK-A7s) surrendered to the Mujahideen at Pushghour. The same report adds that 62 enemy soldiers along with their arms joined Mujahideen at Pushghour,
No. 12
 AFGHAN NEWS
8-8-85                 P-^1
 7z7-85
 Russian forces landed Commando troops, with the. help of hundreds of helicopters all oyer liessa Awel (the upper part. of the valley) aiming at recapturing 120 government military officers and eleven high-ranking officers, who had been captured by Mujahideen in the third week of June from Pushghour enemy garrison, but. due to rais-calculation the Russian bombarded the area and killed all of them.
 The most remarkable point of this is that a contact to exchange the prisoners had been made between the Russians and Panjshir people on 26 June, arid bothsLde agreed to exchange their prisoners.
                „ This barbaric and inhuman behaviour by the Russians created an outcry from the families of the captured officers.
 On the same day, Mujahideen of Parandeli and Manjawoor jointly attacked the enemy bases at Nawalij which resulted in the destruction of 18 tanks, 138 vehicles loaded with ammunition, 6 D-30 and the killing of about ISO enemy soldiers.
26-6-85
HERAT_PR°VINCE
 A letter sent by Commander Esmae.il of Herat says that the Russian-1'RA troops in retaliation to their previous defeat, have carried out ano-
 ther air and ground operation in the provincial center as well as
 surrounding areas of. Herat city.

 The reports indicate that more than 600 tanks and APCs along with several Jet bombers, helicopters and other combat aircrafts participated in this operation. Long-range artilleries and ground missile have been shelling the target points of the city and its surroundings. The movements of the enemy forces has been from Darbi Kandahar heading toward the city of Herat. While passing the area of Saipulak near !l Kandahar bity, the Russian forces were suddenly attacked by Mujahid* een which resulted in the destruction of 5 tanks and the death of 50 Russian- DRA soldiers...
                                         * ‘ \
 I8-6-85
 The report says that when Russian forces reached Herat city ,they started searching the houses of the civilians. While advancing from Shahri Naw toward the upper part of the city called Baraman, the Russian forces were besieged by Mujahideen within the city and as a result of a severe clash between the two sides, 12 tanks of the invading forces were set on fire by rockets and all the personnel were killed . The dead bodies and wreckage of the tanks are still lying in the city. A Russian general was also among those killed . The Mujahideen hung his body in the city as a public example.
 20-6-85
 Three tanks and 1 military vehicle were destroyed in Saipulak and the same day, 8 Russian tanks with all personnel on board were wrecked by Mujahideen in Shahri Naw.