Vol 7, No 13                                               July  1,1991
I   HI      
II n Herat  
     Fighting in Zindajan still continues but at a lower intensity than the past. Enemy troops are still stationed outside Zindajan on two sides. Earlier, they had besieged the city from four directions.
     The Mujahideen estimate the total losses of the enemy at 2,800 killed and 1,500 wounded. They also claim to have destroyed 110 tanks and trucks, seven jets and five helicopters.
     The attack on Zindajan began on May 4. The majority of the residents of Zindajan and some parts of Ghoryan have become refugees. Some have crossed to Iran and others have taken refuge in neighboring areas.
     According to one report, more than 100 bodies of young men which had been thrown into the river were washed ashore. These schoolchildren were brought from the city by the regime to fight against the Mujahideen. The Kabul regime threw their dead bodies into the river to avoid reaction from their relatives. The incident caused tension in the city and a lot of people demonstrated against the regime.
     The Mujahideen have recently increased their attacks against enemy targets and communication lines close to the city.
     The casualties of the Mujahideen have been surprisingly low: killed and wounded do not exceed 250. But among those killed were six junior commanders. The Mujahideen displayed a unique sense of unity during two months of fighting in Herat. This unity foiled enemy designs and saved the Mujahideen from defeat
     A BBC correspondent who visited Herat reported that the people of Herat are very critical of regime’s attack on Zindajan. Ulama in the city, both Shia and Sunni, told him that the national reconciliation program of the regime
                 To page (3)
Supervisory Council retakes Khwaja Ghar;
                           Khanabad
 Mui keep
    The Mujahideen scored two major victories in the North during the past two weeks when they recaptured Khwaja Ghar and repulsed a massive enemy offensive against Khanabad District.
    The Mujahideen recaptured Khwaja Ghar on June 21, inflicting heavy losses on enemy troops. The attack was launched after midnight and by seven o'clock in the morning the town fell to the Mujahideen. They captured 200 enemy troops and seized five tanks, two trucks and large quantities of arms and ammunition. The enemy troops retreated to Dashti-i-Qala and Kunduz.
    Khwaja Ghar had first been liberated by the Mujahideen on May 11, but the enemy recaptured it on June 2. The Mujahideen had withdrawn from the city to avoid loss of life but continued to hold the villages around the city and strategic locations overlooking the town. Mujahideen aborted repeated attempts by the regime troops to capture these positions. Dustam militiamen suffered heavy casualties in the fighting.
    A major regime attack, launched on June 15, to capture positions of strategic importance south of Khwaja Ghar was repulsed by the Mujahideen. In two days of fighting, the Mujahideen killed 200 of Rashid Dustam's militiamen. The Mujahideen continued to harass enemy communication lines, destroying 13 tanks and 17 vehicles. Two enemy generals, one belonging to to Division No. 53 and the other to the Special Guard, woe killed in Khwaja Ghar.
    The people of Khwaja Ghar had evacuated the town before regime recaptured it. Nobody returned while the communists were in control of the area.
  Dustam's men looted the town and took the goods to Kunduz for sale. According to Commander Arif, the
 people of Kunduz refused to buy the stolen goods. This infuriated the Dustam militiamen, and they began beating ordinary people in the streets. The dignitaries of Kunduz intervened to stop the militiamen but they were humiliated too. People took a procession to the governor's house asking him to stop excesses by the militiamen against the people. The governor said that he was helpless and advised the people to close their shops and houses. The shops remained closed for three days. Militiamen looted several shops in Kunduz and harassed women.
     The report adds that General Begi disarmed some Dustam units, which resulted in increased tension between the two men. They were summoned to Kabul to resolve their differences.
     A major enemy offensive to capture Khanabad District was repulsed fry the Mujahideen.
     The attack, launched on June 23, followed massive aerial and ground bombardment of the district In the first two days of the attack, the enemy captured some areas, but its advance was checked on the third day. Two days later, the Mujahideen launched a counteroffensive pushing the enemy out of the areas .it had captured.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at, Ittihac (Prof. Sayyaf), some groups of Hezb (Hekmatyar) and other parties present in Khanabad fought together against the enemy. The Supervisory Council sent reinforcements and supplies to Khanabad at the request of the local Mujahideen.
     Many houses and shops woe destroyed as a result of bombardment and the regime troops burned much of the local harvest. The civil population had evacuated the town. The militiamen of Sayyed Kayan suffered heavy losses in Khanabad; more than 100 woe killed. The casualties of the Mujahideen have not been reported yet
AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
Kunduz Province Herat Province
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed six enemy soldiers and seized six Kalashnikov rifles and one mortar in Guzar area of Kunduz on June 26. Twq enemy tanks were destroyed by landmines in Shakh Taipa area and their occupants were killed.
    •     The Mujahideen killed 16 enemy soldiers, destroyed two tanks and seized 15 Kalashnikov rifles and one ZPU manchinegun in Oar Tablaqi area on June 17, Commander Arif reported.
    •     On the same day, the Mujahideen overran two security posts in Kunduz city killing 15 soldiers. The electricity plant of the city of Kunduz was put out of action when it was hit by BM-12 rockets.
    The Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into Kunduz airport, setting ablaze several buildings.
Kabul Province
    •     An ammunition dump was set on fire when the Mujahideen fired long-range rockets into the Hesarak District on June 16, Commander Anwar reported.
    •     Forty-two enemy troops were killed, 14 houses belonged to military officers were destroyed and a hospital and a cinema were damaged when the Mujahideen from Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the Sarobi District onJune 18.
Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed eight enemy soldiers and and wounded 10 on June 24 when they attacked posts in Shireen Tagao District, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    They seized eight Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. One Mujahid was killed and four wfere injured. The Mujahideen were led in the attack by Sayyed Qamaruddin.
 attacked enemy troops west of Zindajan District, destroying one tank and killing its crew.
     •      The Mujahideen attacked the enemy on Herat-Torghundi road on June 6 in Enjeel District, killing four enemy soldiers and capturing four. They seized one ZPU machinegun, one mortar, one Goryunov machinegun, one R-105 radio set and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were killed in the attack.
     •      Ten enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 12 defected when the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front attacked a regime post in Koshk District on June 2. The Mujahideen also seized two trucks.
     •      Ten villages were liberated from the communists in Pashtoon Zarghoon on June 29 and 30. More than 70 armed militiamen joined the Mujahideen while eight of them were killed in fighting.
     •      Seven enemy soldiers were killed and several sustained injuries when the Mujahideen attacked an enemy unit in the Dasht area of Zindajan on June 28.
     •      Eight enemy soldiers were killed and 12 were injured when the Mujahideen fried ground-to-ground rockets into the headquarters of Corps No. 4 on June 26.
     •      On the same day, the Mujahideen repulsed an enemy attack on Qala-i-Molkiha killing 16 communist soldiers.
     •      The Mujahideen fried rockets into the headquarters of Division No. 17 on June 22, killing nine enemy troops and wounding 10.
     0 The Mujahideen destroyed one tank in Dashti-i-Sangbas area of Zindajan on June 20, killing its crew.
     On June 21, the Mujahideen killed 13 militiamen and destroyed one tank near the city of Zindajan. Three mujahideen sustained injuries in the operation.
     . • Two armed soldiers were captured when the Mujahideen attacked regime forces outside the city of Zindajan on June 19. One Mujahid was killed and another was injured.
     •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked Division No. 17 of Herat with long-range rockets on June 11. As a result five enemy troops were killed and 15 sustained injuries. Commander Ismail Khan reported.
     •       The Mujahideen attacked Kabul regime troops east of Zindajan District on June 10, killing nine soldiers, wounding 17 and destroying one tank and one truck. Abul Ghafar, a junior Mujahideen commander, was killed in the attack.
     On the same day, the Mujahideen
 Regime faces economic crises
    A German paper says efforts by the Kabul regime to encourage foreign investment has brought little results.
    Farm products in 1990 reached 28% of the pre-war figure. Most of the foodstuffs and other essential goods are brought from the Soviet Union. Kabul imports 380,000 tons of food from the Soviet Union each year, 200,000 of which is a gift
    Exports of natural gas, which used to provide 43% of the country's export income, have been cut since 1989. The natural gas pipeline, which is 110 kilometers long, sends gas from northern Afghanistan to neighboring Soviet Uzbekistan.
 Pak Jehad role lauded
    Don Ritter, a US congressman from Pennsylvania, has said Afghan Mujahideen played an important role in forcing the Soviet Union to withdraw its troops and to abandon communism, to an extent, VOA reported.
    He said the Kabul regime fired 1500 SCUD missile at Afghan villages in 1990.
    He said the struggle of the Afghans, which resulted in the introduction of freedom in the Soviet Union, was not possible without the support of Pakistan. Praising the role of Pakistan in support of Jehad, he said Pakistan has allowed assistance to Afghans to pass through its territory.
    In early 1980, when the Soviet em piie was expanding and Soviet-backed regimes in Ethiopia, Nicaragua and Southeast Asia had the upper hand, Pakistan stood with the Mujahideen in the front line.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 13, July 1,1991. page

  llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Wisdom ■
                                    t
lilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!l
Good deeds bring eternal happiness
     A boxer had fallen on hard days: neither at noon nor at night could he find anything to eat. As he could not make a living as a boxer, hunger drove him to work as a laborer carrying loads of earth on his back. His body aching and his heart bleeding, he cursed the injustice of this world and looked sourly at the caprices of fate. The happy lives of others filled him with bitter envy. He cried out indignantly: "Has any man ever lived a life more bitter than mine? While others scoff honey and roast chicken and leg of lamb, I don't have even a lettuce leaf to put on my bread! Is it fair, I ask, for the cat to stalk proudly swathed in furs while I stand naked? How about giving me my heart's desire? While I dig this earth, let me find a buried treasure, let me shake off this dust of misfortune, let me live it up, if only for a few days!"
     One day, while he was digging the ground, he found a decaying skull
Regi me

                                                          From page (1)
 was a plot to deceive people. Najib has lost sympathy among the people because of the attack on Zindajan, the reporter said. The Kabul troops who claimed to. control part of Zindajan refused to take the reporter to see the situation there.
     Heratis told the BBC man that regime militiamen were involved in smuggling drugs and weapons. The large number of ill-disciplined militia groups is a source of worry for people of Herat A militia commander told the BBC -that the people of Herat wanted the city be taken by the Mujahideen.
     The -Kabul regime committed an unprecedented crime by deliberately cutting water supply to Zindajan and Ghoryan, destroying crops and creating shortages of drinking water for people and animals. Regime jets bombed the canals.
 which had lost its lips and all its teeth and yet spoke to him clearly: "Brother! Bear with this hardship! Look at me now, rotting in the ground: can you guess whether my mouth tasted sweets or the salt tears of grief? Fortune's wheel turns, time passes: do not grieve! It will be the same when we are gone."
     As soon as this thought came to him, his mind was cleared of all grief and worry. "O my blind and greedy ego!" he scolded, "stop driving yourself to distraction! Bear with these trials! We are all God's mortal servants: whether in this life we carry burdens on our heads or crowns that scrape the skies, the moment of death will change all and in a twinkling of an eye, we will throw down all our burdens.
     Neither sorrow lasts, nor joy. The only lasting rewards are those of good deeds and a good name. Generosity is everlasting, though thrones and honors vanish. You who are blessed with good fortune, give generously! Do not be taken in by the false glory of power and wealth - others have had it before you came, others will have it after you are gone. If you are truly fortunate, you will look to the hereafter, as this world surely passes. If you want to keep your kingdom, you must attend to matters of religion. Give charity, be generous like Sa'di, who, though penniless, yet scatters pearls of wisdom.
 Afghan pioneers build mosque "Down Under"
    In recent months, Afghan community in Melbourne have succeeded in forming a broad based "Committee for Mosque Construction".
    The committee, comprised prominent figures of the community is set up to first pave the way for fund-raising and establishment of a solid financial foundation. The committee launched its first fund-raising appeal during the last holy month of Ramadhan.This will be the first mosque built by the new generation of the Afghan community in Australia.
    Afghans have long-standing links with Australia. In the second half of the 19th century camel drivers brought their camels from Afghanistan and India, and played a prominent role in the exploration of the Australian continent. The camel drivers were among Australia's pioneers.
    One of the best-known Afghan emigrants to Australia was Mohammad Alam, who was bom in Kandahar but migrated to Australia around 1900. He became famous in Adelaide as a herbalist and healer, and married an Australian. He distributed Islamic literature at his own expanse. When he died in 1964, he left a will in which his considerable fortune was bequeathed to charity.
    To meet the spiritual needs of the early Muslim migrants, mosques were built in a number of Australian towns and cities. The oldest mosque in Australia, the Adelaide Mosque, was completed in 1890. The religious life of the camel drivers was organized around the Perth Mosque, the foundation stone of which was set in 1905. The Afghan king, Habibullah, was appointed the first trustee of the mosque.
IlIMliMl
                    ilil


                                                                                   wi
  §p
mm
                                  ■ Prophet (peace be upon|H
                                                             111
                                   ■and he was exaggerating in us|
Ihim) said to back of the mail* ri

cut) the

                                                                                      No 13, July 1,1991, page ©                
                                                                     AFOHANews Vol 7,                                           
                                                 ';»'*' , i ' ■ ^IMilSi ,\;j™r.;;||^| 7= "A ' --^                               
wwmm m wm.%t Oi                                                                       P Review                                  
** $;*>■ '' ‘M ?m §#■ .** til *£ jOI> % ■: iiiMil:' &                                 V---)                                     
;■ - ■:. ■■' ; «? ■;>- -<?:                                                                                                     
?Vv - I'!-- 1::! -..                                                                                                            
 ■• s ■• s s > v % 'k:!*■■ ’’■• ■ / ///_ <_ f f >s>%>y£>--s \ Av: s •> ■. ;x$>V ^ •■>                                           
Editorial |                                                                           RUSSIAN ROULETTE: The                     
                                                                                      Afghanistan War though Russian Eyes;      
Mujahideen need balanced strategy                                                     by Gennady Bocharov.                      
The world community prefers solving disputes by political means, and the              Hamish Mailton, London £13.99             
UN has merged as a credible body to deal with these issues.                           "Russian Roulette" begins with a          
The world community wants to see the Afghan issue resolved through nego¬              scary incident back in February 1980,     
tiations and with the active involvement of the UN. This is a new development         just six weeks after the Soviet invasion  
which the Mujahideen must take into account in choosing their political and mili¬     of Afghanistan.                           
tary strategies. Ignoring it will isolate the resistance and will have a negative ef¬ Russian journalist Gennady                
fect on foreign support for Jehad.                                                    Bocharov, a distinguished writer for      
The supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen show keen interest in finding a po¬           the popular Soviet weekly                 
litical solution to the problem of Afghanistan, and they give more importance to      "Literatumaya Gazeta,” tells how,         
the UN role in finding a solution than in the past. They adopted this approach af¬    stranded in the Kabul Hotel, and sur¬     
ter they were disappointed by the military performance of the Mujahideen after        rounded by an angry, menacing crowd       
the Soviet troop withdrawal. Although they do not rule out the use of fence           of Afghans demonstrating against the      
against the Kabul regime, they want the force to be used to bring pressure to bear    Soviet invasion of their country, he and  
for a political settlement.                                                           other Soviet citizens faced an ugly       
For the Mujahideen the crux of the problem is to remove the Kabul regime              death. He described it as the worst       
and to avoid legitimizing the period of communist rule in Afghanistan. If such an     night of his life. By a weird coinci¬     
objective is achieved through a political process, there is no need for further       dence, he had been booked into the        
bloodshed. But the Mujahideen worry that this process might be used to impose a       very room in the Kabul hotel where the    
solution that gives legitimacy to the communists. The signing of the Geneva           unfortunate US ambassador Adolph          
Accords is an example of a deal in which the Kabul regime was given an unde¬          Dubs had been shot dead the previous      
served degree of legitimacy.                                                          year. The walls and door of his room      
Most Afghans believe the UN is the right organization to deal with this is¬           were still full of bullet holes. .        
sue. Whether UN officials can keqp Afghans’ confidence in them depends on             Much of this slim little bode con¬        
their approach!                                                                       sists of reported conversations, brief    
Some UN officials -- Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan, for example - have                   and to the point The jerky style may      
made the mistake of ignoring the resistance. The removal of the "Black Prince,"       be meant to convey the author’s obvi¬     
as some of his own colleagues called him behind his back, from the office of UN       ous unease and anger. But the crude       
coordinator for Afghanistan was a step in the right direction. His presence would     technique and flatness of the writing     
have only intensified bad feelings between the UN and the Mujahideen.                 might also be due to the translator.      
In order to keep the good will of the world community on their side, the              Bocharov chose meaningful                 
Mujahideen have to cooperate with the UN without compromising their                   Biblical texts from Ecclesiastes to head  
principles.                                                                           his chapters. His book begins thus:       
The Mtijahideen can be politically effective if they unite their ranks. Recent        "And I turned myself to behold wis¬       
efforts to form a 28-member council representing all resistance groups could be       dom, and madness, and folly: for what     
useful if the body proves able to deal with the political issues facing the           can the man do that cometh after the      
resistance./                                                                          king? Even that which hath already        
But die Mujahideen and their supporters should not forget the reality of the          been done."                               
situation inside Afghanistan. They should bear in mind that the Kabul regime is       He does not try to hide the extent        
doing everything possible to gain die upper hand in batde' against the                of Soviet involvement in and direction    
Mujahideen.                                                                           of the war effort in Afghanistan. "Not    
Attacks in several parts of Afghanistan, despite talk of peace and reconcilia-        a single undertaking - be it political or 
tion.is evidence of the regime's brutal designs. The Soviet Union supports these      economic --- was carried out by the       
efforts through generous military and economic aid to Kabul. They talk peace but      Afghans themselves. Only with the di¬     
spare no effort to strengthen their military position. They know a weak party will    rect participation of Soviet              
not be taken seriously in any political deal.                                         representatives."                         
The resistance should not rest It should promote its political activities along       Bocharov is scornful of much of           
with its military program to achieve its ultimate goal. Politics should be comple¬    this Soviet effort. Most of the party ad¬ 
mentary to fighting, and vice versa.                                                  visers, he claims, knew absolutely        
Experience has shown that when the political front gets hot, the batdefield           nothing about the east "The trouble       
becomes cold. Party leaders spent most of their time discussing politics at ex¬       with the advisers was not just that they  
pense of military issues. If such mistakes are repeated, the consequences for the     didn't know Afghanistan. They didn't      
resistance will be dangerous.                                                         know something even more important:       
To page (6)                                                                           how to run things in their own back¬      
                                                                                      yard, let alone a foreign country."       
                                                                                      To page (7)                               
                                             AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
Muslims pray for victory
 Mohammad Es'haq
    The Muslim World League, a Mecca-based Islamic organization, invited me and a group of other Afghans to perform Haj, and provided air tickets, transport, food and lodging in the Holy Land. The League had invited more than 500 Muslims from all over the world to perform Haj this year.
    Although the trip was official, our departure was uncertain because the League's Peshawar office which had invited us had not reserved any airplane seats. We were told to go the airport and test our luck with the only remaining flight of Saudi Airlines. Luckily, the seats were available.
    In Jeddah, we were met by officials of the League who took us to Mecca and lodged us in the League's guest house at Mina.
    As a guest of the government Haj was easy. But for all pilgrims Haj is much simpler than ini the past The Saudi government has done everything it could to allow pilgrims to perform Haj in safety and comfort. A system of tunnels, overheads, roads and bridges have made travel in the Holy Land easier and safer.
    This year's Haj was uneventful. Last year 1000 people were killed in a tunnel stampede.
    More than 100,000 Iranian pilgrims performed Haj this season. Unlike previous years/ relations between Iranian pilgrims and the Saudi authorities were good. In the early years of the Islamic revolution, Iranian pilgrims used to raise anti-American and anfi-Isreali slogans in the Holy Land, and organized political rallies. These political activities created tension between them and the Saudi Government. In 1987, about 400 Iranian pilgrims were killed in clashes with Saudi security forces in the holy city of Mecca, leading to an Iranian boycott of the Haj for three years. At the end of the Gulf crisis, relations between the two countries were normalized, paving the way for Iranian pilgrims to come back to the Holy Land.
    But the Gulf crisis did prevent Muslims from some Arab countries from performing Haj. According to a merchant in Medina, Iraqi pilgrims had not come and pilgrims from Libya, Yemen, Algeria and Sudan were fewer compared to previous years.
    The presence of 5000 Soviet pilgrims was a significant development We talked to some Tajiks from the
 USSR who sympathized with the Mujahideen and prayed for their victory. When we asked them to pose for collective photos, they refused, possibly fearing the KGB. About 180 Albanian pilgrims also had come to the Holy Land. Soviets and Albanians were also guests of the Saudi government during their stay.
     At Mina, the guests of the League listened to speakers who talked about religion and current issues of the Muslim world at the end of each regular prayer. Afghanistan and Palestine were the two main issues discussed. Prof. Ahmad Jan Ahmadzay, a member of the Executive Committee of Jami'at, briefed the audience about the situation in Afghanistan. Members of the Afghan delegation also talked to individual pilgrims about the Jehad. While other pilgrims expressed sympathy with the Mujahideen and prayed for their victory, they asked the Mujahideen to unify their ranks.
     In a separate gathering organized by the Presidency of Islamic Research, Ifta and Propagation, two Afghan leaders, Cmdr. Jalaluddin Haqqani and Maulawi Ahmad Gul, spoke about the situation in Afghanistan and the need for continued support for the Mujahideen.
     The absence of die leaders of the Mujahideen parties in this year's Haj indicated a change in traditionally warm relations between the Mujahideen leaders and the Saudi government on account of the Gulf crisis.
     The good news of the recapture of Khwaja Ghar reached us in the Holy Land. We thanked Almighty Allah for the victory and prayed for further successes by the Mujahideen in the Jehad against the infidels.
     More than 6,500 Afghans had the privilege of performing Haj this year. More than 4500 had left from Pakistan, 1000 from Iran and 1000 from Kabul.
     Several thousand would-be Afghan pilgrims could not perform Haj due to the lack of planes to fly them from Islamabad to the Holy Land. Among them were about 180 pilgrims from the Supervisory Council. In previous years the Saudi government organized special flights for Afghan Hajis, but this year, this facility was not extended to them for unknown reasons.
     Some of these pilgrims had come all the way from Afghanistan and they returned home with heavy hearts and tearful eyes.
 HHL Babrak KarmitlMPHBjWWB of the Kabul regime, returned to Kabul on June 20 Som;'Mbscowl I where he had been living in exile. (One day after Karmal's arrival, his Mother, Mahrtood Baryalay, was <Ss-1 missed' pmfm, post of Deputy! PrimeMnisttf J&* reason was given (for the retain of Katroal and the dismissal of his brother. Kanhal was replaced by Nafib in 1986 as the head of the Kabul regime antTsince them [bad lived in the US I           " •••
 I Kiiodaidad Basharmai has been appointed the Kabul regime’s ambas-l Isador to the UN. He replaces Noor .Ahmad Noor, who was called home several months ago.^^^HH | Basharmai 46, was until recent-
   mm '            >...&■< m -I
  I The meat, brought by four PIA |flights, was distributed among Afghan refugees in Baluchistan and [fSRVFP provinces.                     ■
  I The People's Republic of China has given a donation worth Rs.12
  ■■■to Afghan refugees uving ml |fi^stan..::;iiifri Zhon Gang, Chinese arobassi^tb Pakistan, handed d» donation documents to the office of Commissioner for Afghan Refugees on Juiti:i7i!F                   .-(III: ■
    The Kabul an foray: bombed Khost, killing at least 20 people and injuring 80, on June 16, Kbost was Ubaied a* the startojthe parent Afghan year.
    The MujalthfHl^^^^l diets and militiamen, captured m Khost, m Peshawar on June 19. The
                                                                                                                                     -'-vlPiPi III #
  tatives of the med Cross, A spokes-
                                                                                                                               I j :: ,
      Dr. Mohammad Yoiwf, a fw| n&r Afghan prime minister, has ad-! niitted?:.n^      thein^me for-
 eign mihisteiC / AbdulpWaldL Dr.1
                                                                          m
                                              W
 AFGHANews V0I7, No 13, July 1,1991, page
 Habib ur-Rahman
Commentary by:
Unity is lesson of Khwaja Ghar
     The Kabul regime's defeat in Khwaja Ghar and failure of its offensive against Khanabad District indicate a positive military change in favor of the Mujahideen in the North. The main feature of this change is unity among the resistance forces in the area.
     The Kabul regime had planned to capture Khanabad District and Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, at the start of the current year but due to Mujahideen activities this plan was delayed.
     At the beginning of the current Afghan year, the Kabul regime mobilized a large force in Kunduz to capture Khanabad District but the liberation of Khwaja Ghar by the Mujahideen forced the enemy to revise its plan.
     The enemy launched a counter attack against the Mujahideen in Khwaja Ghar from two directions. The Mujahideen withdrew from the town but kept control of the strategic locations and villages around the town. Kabul, regiihe which was looking for a propaganda victory was satisfied with this temporary victory.
     While the enemy was making final preparation to attack Khanabad , the Mujahideen recaptured Khwaja Ghar in a surprise attack inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. The enemy launched a two-pronged counteroffensive from the directions of Dashti-i-Qala and Kunduz to capture Khwaja Ghar but was defeated leaving behind several tanks and trucks.
     After loosing Khwaja Ghar, the enemy launched a massive attack on Khanabad. In the first two day the enemy made some progress in the battlefield, but on the third day, the enemy advance was blocked and the Mujahideen counter attack pushed the enemy out of the areas it had initially captured from the Mujahideen. Militias belonging to Sayyed Kayan who led the offensive in Khanabad, suffered heavy casualties and are reported to be badly demoralized.
     The Mujahideen of Khanabad were united against the enemy. Some commanders belonging toHezb also took part in the attack. Commander Amir of Prof. Sayyaf played a key role in the Khanabad campaign. The Supervisory Council sent reinforcement to Khanabad auhe request of the local Mujahideen. While Khanabad campaign is not over yet, it seems that the Kabul regime has failed to achieve its objectives.
     The Kabul regime bombed the dis-
 trict heavily from air and ground. It used ground-to-ground rockets extensively. As a result of these bombardments, many houses and shops were destroyed. The Kabul troops deliberately set on fire the harvests causing concern among the population.
     Developments in Rustaq District, west of Kookcha river, indicate a positive turn in favor of the Mujahideen. Several Hezb Islami commanders who had been kept away from fighting against the regime by their local chief, Eng. Bashir, left that party with about 2000 armed men and joint Jami'at. They included. Commander Mamor Hasan, Mamor Abdullah, Qazi Kabir and Commander Haqqani. The local militias in Dasht-i-Qala have been demoralized and are negotiating terms of their surrender. These developments has set the stage for the Mujahideen's final attack on militias in the area along the Soviet border.
     Militias belonging to SABZA, headed by Mahboobullah Kooshani, suffered a serious defeat when the Mujahideen captured Khwaja Ghar which was their base. SAFZA, the other faction led by Hakim Seddiqi, is coming undo1 increasing pressure as the Mujahideen are making further advance in their territory.
     At the moment, regime controls Kookcha bridge, connecting Khwaja Ghar and Dasht-i-Qala. The enemy forces on the bridge are besieged by the Mujahideen.
     Regime forces in Dashti-i-Qala, led by General Begi, are demoralized. General Begi who is from Dasht-i-Qala was brought from Herat to deal with the deteriorating situation in his home town.
     Unity among the Mujahideen, demonstrated in a the operations in Khwaja Ghar and Khanabad, is the most important development of the current year. In the past, the Mujahideen acted independently. The unity has built new confidence in the Mujahideen ranks. The cooperation which existed between the Mujahideen in Taliqan has now spread to Kunduz. The Mujahideen have entered a new are in their Jehad. Regime's use of force will push die Mujahideen closer together.
     According to a Mujahideen source, the morale of the regime troops, especially those of Sayyed Kayan and Dostom militiamen, is very low. They are against continuation of war because of their heavy casualties in Khwaja
     The Kabul regime gives very importance to the outcome of war in the North. For this reason, it has brought some of its experienced Generals like General Rafi, General Begi, Juma Asik, Rashid Dostom, and Sayyed Mansoor to the area.
     The Mujahideen have captured large quantities of arms and ammunition. For an area with chronicle shortages of supplies due to seasonal supply routes, it is a good achievement. Ibis will enable the Mujahideen to continue their operation at a faster pace.
     Ahmad Shah Masood has asked the Council of Commanders to escalate the operations against the enemy targets in other parts of Afghanistan. The Council of Commanders had decided in its meeting in Shah Salim that Mujahideen should escalate fighting against the weak enemy targets and gradually increase the intensify of then-operations.
     The developments in the North showed that tactic adopted by the Supervisory Council was working well. Combination of frontal attacks and mobile warfare has given the Mujahideen an upper hand despite lack of proper air defense.
     And finally, elimination of local communist factions in Takhar will bring permanent peace in the area.
 Ishaq appoints Asif new Army Chief
    President Ghulam Ishaq Khan has appointed Ll Got. Asif Nawaz Janjua to be the new chief of the army staff of Pakistan, with effect from August 16, 1991, says a notification issued by the Defence Ministry on June 11. Janjua has also been promoted to the rank of general effective August 16. He will replace General Mirza Aslam Beg.
 Editorial
                                           From page (4) ,
    Now that the battlefield performance of the Mujahideen has improved, they deserve encouragement from their leaders and from their outside supporters. The Council of Commanders, formed last year, should play an appropriate role in coordinating and escalating the war in Afghanistan.
    The key to peace is the proper combination of military and political efforts. If these efforts are not balanced, we can expect no peace.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page 0
From the diary of Jehad By: Abu Jehad
A trip to the North
     My name is Abu Jehad and I was X)m 23 years ago in Iraq in a semi Kurdish family. I was a student in high school when first heard about Jehad of my Muslim brothers in Afghanistan through the Islamic Movement of Iraq. The movement spread the news of the Mujahideen struggle among its members secretly.
     I decided to join the Mujahideen and in February of 1985 went to Herat.
 I spent two and half years with Commander Ismail Khan during which I learned speaking and writing Persian.
 I spend one and half years with other Mujahideen fronts in Herat.
     I had heard a lot about Commander Masood and wanted to meet with him. In the summer of 1990,
 I reached Takhar Province, where I spent eight months before returning to Peshawar.
     I was in Takhar when Professor Mujaddidi visited the area. He was warmly received. Mujaddidi's trip had a positive effect on the Mujahideen and people in Afghanistan. The warm welcome accorded to him was a natural expression of respect for a Mujahideen leader who had been chosen as the President of AIG.
     The first thing which impressed me about the North was the unity of the Mujahideen. In some other areas even if it is controlled by one party, there are little cooperation between the commanders of the same Mujahideen organization. In the North, all Jami’at Mujahideen obeyed Masood.
     Before going to the North, I did not have ' any idea about the Mujahideen's administrative skills. I knew that they were good fighters but had no idea of their work in the fields of reconstruction, education, health and law and order. Watching road construe don, hospitals and schools, I became convinced that the Mujahideen were not just military people but fully prepared to run their country.
     The Mujahideen run Taliqan city efficiently where Islamic Sharia is fully implemented. I was impressed by the security along the road and in the liberated towns and villages. Ordinary people praised Masood for his services to the people and they respected him.
     When I was in Taliqan, Masood made a trip to Pakistan where he reached an agreement with Mujahideen commanders. People were very happy about the understanding reached among the field commanders. They were equally happy about an agree-
   > Abu Jehad
 ment signed by Jami'at and Hezb about solving their disputes peacefully.
     After Masood's return preparation for attack against the Kabul regime started. Training of Mujahideen continued all winter. The level of training was quite impressive.
     But unfortunately thing did not work the way it was predicted. Relations between Jami'at and Hezb did not improve because of the negative attitude of a senior Hezb commander, Bashir Shahadatyar.
     Jami'at was preparing for holding ejections and a delegation from Hezb arrived from Peshawar for this purpose. They held several meetings with Masood. Soon it was revealed that Hezb was distributing money among commanders in a bid to win their votes.
     Commander Bashir started to distribute money among some Jami'at commanders in Taliqan and other parts of Takhar to incite them against Masood and Supervisory Council. Jami'at commanders who were approached had informed Masood about Bashir's design.
        An assassination attempt was planned by Bashir involving four people from Taliqan. The culprits were captured. They admitted their involvement in the plot Masood wanted to ask the Hezb delegation to come to Taliqan to meet with the gang of four, hired by Bashir, but they preferred to return to Peshawar instead. These moves destroyed die chance of holding elections.
     The last move by Bashir was an armed attack on Bangi for the purpose of capturing Taliqan.. After some initial gains the attack was checked. Hezb leader in Peshawar was contacted but
 (I
 To page (8)
                                                              From page (4)
     He does not spare his own people. Of Soviet journalists, he writes, "We drew an attractive picture of revolutionary Afghanistan, not forgetting to project the image of the Soviet soldier as a peacemaker."
     Nevertheless, Bacharov seems inclined to duck the unpleasant truth that right to the end of the Soviet military involvement, propaganda remained the essential task of Soviet journalists. "The only people who continued to Idiealize the soldiers and officers of the (Afghan) government forces were hopelessly backward journalists or those who were blinded by dual patriotism." The Soviet military knew very well, he claims, that they had to rely on themselves in Afghanistan, that their allies by and large were untrustworthy. Yet this was never reflected in the Soviet mass-media as a whole until the very end of the military involvement.
     He describes the faking of espionage stories. "There was a constant demand for articles about spies and intervention from abroad." The problem was that no American spies could be found, until an American hippie by the name of Robert Lee was arrested. "Lee turned out to be a primitive bum Afghan mountain trails were the best place in the world to wander through an empty earthly life." The author explains, "There was nothing to do but release him."
     Described, alongside a coldblooded murder of Afghan civilians by Soviet soldiers, are heroic deeds and deaths of Soviet soldiers in action. Though there is evident scorn for the old men in Moscow who ordered the invasion, the book shows considerable respect for the soldiers forced to fight in a war they could not understand There is a fascinating, admiring portrait here of General Boris Gromov, the last commander of Soviet forces Afghanistan, who was recently promoted by President Gorbachev to deputy interior minister.
     "There were moments when Gromov was more than charming when he seemed to possess more compassion than any priest Nonetheless, as a regular military man," declares the writer, "General Gromov was the most tragic figure in Kabul, the.right man in the wrong place."
     Anthony Hyman
     COURTESY: ARIN
                                             AFGHANews Vol7, No 13, July 1,1991, page ©
negotiators
    Recent increased diplomatic efforts to bring about a consensus among the Afghan resistance on a peace formula and the creation of a broad-based representative body have made little progress so far.
    The recent diplomatic efforts followed the announcement of the UN five-point plan to seek a peaceful solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
    These efforts enjoy the encouragement and backing of the Pakistan government, which has supported the UN plan.
    The Afghan resistance feels all the resistance groups should agree on a common answer to the UN proposals.
    A 28-member common council representing all resistance groups has been formed to bring such an understanding. So far, the council has met twice, but some groups have not participated in its meetings for one reason or another.
    Peshawar-based parties each have three representatives on the council. Independent factions such as those of Qazi Amin, Jamil ur-Rahman and Mawlawi Moazzin each have one representative.
    Two Peshawar-based Shia parties, Harakat (Mohsini) and Shoora Ittifaq, have sent one representative each, and two seats are reserved for Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party based in Tehran.
    Hezb Islami (Khalis) and Jamil ur-Rahman's representatives have not participated in the council's meeting, apparently in opposition to die participation of Shia parties and of Hizb Islami (Hekmatyar) respectively.
    Hezb Wahdat is not satisfied with two seats, and has demanded at least five. This issue has always prevented Iran-based Shia parties from cooperating with the Peshawar-based parties.
    A delegation of Hezb Wahdat is currently visiting Pakistan at the invitation of the government of Pakistan. The delegation, headed by Rahmtullah Mortazawi, has met the president, prime minister and officials of the Pakistan foreign ministry. They also held talks with some Mujahideen leaders, including Prof.Rabbani.
    Mortazawi told reporters in Islamabad that his party rejects any deal with the Kabul regime. He said that the part of the UN plan which envisages a cease-fire and talks with the Kabul regime is unacceptable to Hezb Wahdat. He said also that former monarch Zaher Shah can play a role in the
 process only as an individual Afghan.
     A two-member delegation representing the former king has arrived in Islamabad at the invitation of the foreign ministry to discuss ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan. The members of die delegation are one of Zaher's cousins, Sultan Mahmood Ghazi, now living as a refugee in the United States, and Abdul Satar Seerat, a former Afghan justice minister who lives as a refugee in Saudi Arabia.
     They also met the president, prime minister and high foreign ministry officials to discuss the role of the ex-king in a peace formula.
     They also met with five leaders of the Peshawar-based Mujahideen parties and with the leaders of Shia parties. They visited Peshawar and Quetta and talked to some commanders and refugees. For them, it was an assessment mission to determine their future course of action.
     They ruled out the possibility of any sort of deal with the Kabul regime. They tried to persuade die Mujahideen that the ex-monarch wants to play a temporary role in bringing peace, and was seeking no permanent role for himself and his family.
     Zahir Shah had earlier proposed the formation of a Loya Jirga (a grand national assembly) in a neutral country to choose a head of state, adopt a constitution and appoint a transition administration to replace the Kabul regime.
     Pakistan, in a policy change, appears to have lent some weight to these efforts by contacting former king in Rome and inviting his representatives to Pakistan.
     This invitation and the support expressed by some Mujahideen parties and tribal circles must have encouraged him to take a more active role in the future.
     Prof. Rabbani received the Zahir Shah delegation and listened to then-views. Jami'at has always opposed a leading role by the former king but has avoided harsh propaganda against him in the larger interests of the Jehad. Jami'at's position remains unchanged.
     Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Prof. Sayyaf refused to talk with representatives of the former king. Several hundred students affiliated with Hezb Islami staged a demonstration outside the Holiday Inn in Islamabad where the king's envoys .were staying. They shouted slogans against die king and the United States.
Diary of Jehad
                                          From page (7)
Bashir did not evacuate the' areas he had seized. Finally he was pushed out by force after rejecting the repeated appeal by the local Ulama and a delegation of commanders from other Mujahideen parties.
   These events postponed the sixth meeting of Supervisory Council and delayed the military operation against die regime in Khwaja Ghar. But I am sure the Mujahideen will launch their attacks soon because they woe preparing for it (This interview was made before the fall of Khwaja Ghar).
    I found Masood an impressive person. I watched him closely during my stay in Takhar and found him a committed Muslim. He is a good military leader and a kind friend.
   On the way back to Pakistan, I passed through Panjshir. I found it the most devastated place in Afghanistan. I saw a large number of destroyed planes, tanks and trucks in Panjshir. Most of the villages were ruined.
   Back in Pakistan, I heard that my family had become refugee in Turkey along with millions other Kurds. There are many similarities between us and Afghans. There are also similarities between the Saddam and Najib.
                                    EC backs UN plan
   The European Community has announced its support for the UN plan to seek a political solution to the Afghan problem. It asks the world to stop sending aims to both sides in the conflict: It also suggests formation of a transitional setup in Afghanistan to bring peace in that, country.
        !Hdp us publish fPFQMTUHzws!
                                   Tteast send your donations to die fodowiny account numBer:
            7E2&VD Account     73$-37
        9(a6i6 ‘Banf^Ltd. ‘Tefftcd BaCa, Tesdamtr Takjstan
Pit ■ SIM
mm®
'■■ !
M1®!®
 Published fortnightly by J
 Vol 7, No 14
 July 15,1991
POOR ECOMOMY WORRIES NflJIB
  A German journalist has described the economic situation in Kabul as worrying. In an article published in a Frankfort paper, he says Afghan currency has lost its value and the weight of banknotes paid for goods equals that of the merchandise.
  Most people eat tea and bread three times a day, and only lucky ones find sugar, the reporter adds.
  The German journalist says one meets many quarrelsome and depressed people in different parts of Kabul. The poor economic situation is the cause of their depression. The farmers who grow vegetables do not eat them because they have to sell them to buy essential commodities they need.
  US dollars buy 950 Afghanis. People who exchange currency carry the money away in sacks. Those involved in the exchange of currencies have made a lot of money.
  The poor economic situation has paralyzed the government Officers take bribes and misuse their positions. The salary they receive is not enough to feed them.
  The government is becoming worried about the situation, because it has no source of revenue and the Soviet Union find it difficult to continue its economic support to Kabul.
  The most important feature of Kabul's market is the presence of a’ large number of children who work to feed their families. Children play the role of fathers in the war-ton Afghanistan. Ordinary people have lost their hope in peace and reconciliation.
Bern launches peace offensive
   Klaus Jacobi, the Foreign Minister of Switzerland, visited Kabul and Peshawar in a bid to find a political settlement for the Afghan conflict.
   He went to Kabul on July 11, at the invitation of the Foreign Minister of the regime. During his three-day stay in Kabul, he met with Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, Abdul Wakil, Foreign Minister, General Yaqoubi, the Minister of State Security, and a number of Afghans who work for the return of the former king. He had visited Moscow before coming to Kabul.
   In Islamabad, Jacobi met with Wasim Sajjad, the Chairman of the Senate, and Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan, and discussed with them ways of ending the conflict in Afghanistan.
   Jacobi spent two days in Peshawar during which he met with a number of Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani. He also met with some Afghan field commanders and intellectuals.
   " I initiated my peace mission at the request of Afghans living in Switzerland," Jacobi said. A staunch supporter of the former king had organized Jacobi's engagements in Peshawar.
   Jacobi told Prof. Rabbani that he was not carrying any fresh proposals but was trying to speed up the peace process initiated by the UN. He emphasized that talks between Afghans should start as soon as possible and should include all sides. He was of the opinion that such talks could start with the participation of some groups, and the rest can join later. Those opposed to talks can remain out of it, but they should not create problems for it, he stated.
   Jacobi said Switzerland did not have a particular interest in Afghanistan and what he wanted was the return of peace in that country.
   Appreciating the Minister's interest in
 Afghanistan, Prof. Rabbani said he supported any effort which would lead to a just solution of the Afghan problem. About the UN plan. Prof. Rabbani said inter-Afghan dialogue, envisaged in the UN plan, should not include the Kabul regime. The plan calls for the preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan. Afghanistan was an Islamic country but the communists tried to change it Therefore, Najib and his colleagues cannot be included in the proposed talk.
   Jami'at's leader said that Najib and his colleagues have acted worse than Nazis. They are responsible for the killing of more than 1.5 million of their own people. Najib, as the head of KHAD, has been personally responsi ble for mass-murder of the Afghan people.
   About Najib's strength. Prof. Rabbani said that he is weaker then ever before. He has lost the support of most of the leading figures of the communist party and fights against the people with the help of mercenaries who loot the people's property wherever they are sent. The criminal acts of regime's militiamen forced people in Herat and Kunduz to stage demonstration against the communists.
   "Emphasis on participation of Najib in the peace process will jeopardize your mission," Prof Rabbani said.
   He said that all the Mujahideen parties were united in opposition to Najib and his party. A representative of Zahir Shah who visited Peshawar recently said: "Giving Najib a role in the future of Afghanistan is national treason."
   About the start of peace talks without the participation of some groups. Prof. Rabbani said it would not succeed. The groups left out will not join the process later even if they found it useful. He said if all parties could not come close together, the majority of the groups should get together for the peace process to succeed.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Battlefields
;;;;___- - «88
 Herat Province
    • The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed two oiemy soldiers, captured four and seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one Goryunov machinegun and some ammunition in Girdab village of Enjeel District 9 The Mujahideen of Jami'at destroyed one tank and two tracks and set on fire an ammunition dump when they attacked regime positions west of Zindajan with ground-to-ground rockets on July 2« More than 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded in the operation.
    9 One enemy tank and two trucks were destroyed and 20 enemy soldiers were killed and four were injured when the Mujahideen attacked their positions west of Zindajan with rockets on July 3.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen of the Afzali Front killed seven enemy soldiers and wounded 15 in Taryak village, east of the city of Herat.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen, of Jami'at under the command of Haji Sayid Jan killed five enemy soldiers and wounded several others in the Mazar area of Shindand. Four Mujahideen were killed and five were injured in the operation.
    9 The Mujahideen killed three enemy soldiers and wounded two when they attacked their positions with 82 mm recoilless rifles opposite Qala-i-Mulki in Zindajan on July 5.
    On the same day, two trucks were destroyed and some enemy personnel were either killed or wounded in Zindajan.
    Three enemy soldiers woe killed and four were injured in Qala-i-Ezat of Zindajan with heavy weapons. The Mujahideen also killed three enemy soldiers in Qala-i-Naw area of Zindajan.
    9 Five enemy soldiers were killed or wounded in Qala-i-Naw area of
 Zindajan on June 6 by land mines planted by die Mujahideen.
    Two soldiers were killed by the Mujahideen in Khwaja Ha area. The Mujahideen killed or wounded 25 enemy soldiers when they fired rockets into their positions arouikl Zindajan.
 Jauzjan Province
    Four soldiers were killed and six wore wounded when die Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Dolam village. The Mujahideen captured the post and seized one rocket launcher, dozens of Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation. .
 Parwan Province
    The Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council destroyed 16 tanks, 17 trucks, two BM-14 rocket launchers and 16 posts, and killed or wounded dozens of enemy soldiers in three days of fighting, beginning on July 9, in Salang, Jabulseraj and around Charikar. Here are the details of the operations:
    9 The Mujahideen captured five Kalashnikov rifles and one P.K machinegun in Ofiyan ,' a village close to Charikar, the provincial capital of Pairwan province, on July 9.
    9 On July 10, the Mujahideen launched the follpwing operations: .
      The Mujahideen attacked , enemy installations in Division No. 2 in Jabulseraj, setting on fire an ammunition dump. The dump burned for two hours, killing six officers and five soldiers and causing heavy material losses to the enemy.
    In Liwan, inside the Salang Valley, two mobile workshops, one tank, two. posts and one supply truck were destroyed . Three regime officers ‘were killed and six were injured and four rooms of a military residential quiarter were damaged.
     In Baghi-Maidan, inside Salang , two tanks, two Kamaz trucks and three security posts were destroyed.
     In Oraty, inside Salang , four bunkos of the 64th brigade, six supply trucks and one tank were destroyed.
     9 On July 11, the Mujahideen launched die following operations:
     In Jabulseraj, the Mujahideen destroyed two trucks and one tank, killed two officers and four soldiers and inflicted heavy material losses on the headquarters of 64th Brigade.
     In Olang, six tanks and three bunkers woe destroyed.
     In Qalatak of Salang, three tanks and four supply trucks of the enemy were destroyed.
     The Mujahideen also set on fire an ammunition dump of the Division No. 2 which caused heavy kisses in men and material. Two tanks and two BM-14 rocket launchers woe destroyed by die explosion of the ammunition dump.
     Aerial attacks against the Mujahideen and Mujahideen attacks against the enemy targets continued when this report was filed. The Salang road is blocked. Salang is the life-line of the regime through which food, fuel, arms and ammunition are brought from the Soviet Union to Kabul.
     This is the second major attack on the Salang highway by the Supervisory Council since the beginning of the current year. Blocking Salang will have a negative effect on the military activities of the Kabul regime in major parts of Afghanistan.
     As a result of mounting pressure on the enemy in the past month, 40 armed soldiers stationed in the area have defected to the Mujahideen.
 Wardak Province
     The Kabul regime's offensive, launched one month ago, against the Mujahideen in Maidan Shar, 30 kilom eters weft of Kabul, still continues.
     Kabul troops have succeeded in capturing Puli Surkh, 15 kilometers south of Maidan Shar, and Shah Kabul. The Mujahideen resisted the enemy troops, inflicting heavy losses on them So far, more than 40 tanks and 10C trucks have been destroyed and two jets have been shot down. Casualties of the enemy are estimated to be more than 1000 dead and wound.
     The Kabul regime heavily bombs the villages around Maidan Shar. About 40 Mujahideen and 150 civilians have been martyred.
     A large number of people have taken refuge in the neighboring areas and Maidan Shar is deserted. The
   19* To page ( 3)
                                            AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Hard work saves man from humiliation of serving king
There were two brothers. One then to sit back and relax is better than worked for the king, the other to wear - gorgeous court dress and to be earned his daily bread as a labor- always standing to attention."
 er. The servant of the king was rich. Once he turned to his brother and asked: "Why don't you come and work for the king so that you no longer need to work with your hands?"
  The other answered: "And why do you not work with your hands so that you no longer suffer the humiliation of being in service? Philosophers have said that to earn your own bread and
   It is better to mix quick lime with your bare hands than to stand grovelling with your hands pressed to your chest in front a despot.
   Your precious life passes in worrying what you will eat in spring and what you will wear in winter. Let your stomach be satisfied with a little coarse oat bread, so that your back need not always be bent in bowing and scraping.
Power robs you of all peace of mind
  A king reached the end of his days and had no successor. In his will, he ordered that whoever first entered the city gates at dawn on the day of his death should be crowned as the new ruler of the country. It so happened, that when the king died, the first person to enter the city was a beggar who had spent all his life gathering crusts of bread and sowing patches on to his threadbare cloak. The nobles and courtiers carried out the king's will and surrendered the keys of the city and its treasury to the beggar.
  For some time, the beggar ruled the kingdom. Then, some of the officers rebelled against his authority and the neighboring rulers prepared their armies to join in the melee. Finally even the army and the common people joined the revolt and some of the outlying provinces were liberated from the control of the capital city.
  These events left the beggar-king tired and disappointed. At that moment, an old friend who had known him when he was still a mere beggar, returned from his travels and saw him in his exalted royal state. "Praise be to God!" he said. "Look where your lucky star has led you! The thorn of misfortune has turned into the rose of good fortune. You have pulled out the thorn
 that was stuck in your foot and your feet now rest on the royal footstool!"
   The other replied: "O my brother! You should offer me condolences rather than congratulations. When you last saw me, the most I had to worry about was a loaf of bread; now all the world's worries weigh me down. Once you have power, you get addicted to it and cannot bear to do without it. There is no disease worse than addiction to worldly power whether you have power or whether you don't, it robs you of all peace of mind."
News from battlefields
                                          From page (2)
Mujahideen of Jami'at, Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf), Hezb (Hikmatyar), Harakat (Mohammadi) and Harakat Islami (Mohsini) have joined a council to coordinate their activities in Maidan.
   The aim of the enemy is to outrange the Mujahideen's heavy weapons so that they cannot attack Kabul. It could also be an attempt to open the road link between Kabul and Ghazni.
   An enemy attack oh Koti Ashro, 10 kilometers west of Maidan- Shar, was repulsed by the Mujahideen.
Paktia Province
   An Afghan air force jet fighter violated Pakistani air space on July 12 and dropped one bomb in Ghulam Khan village, some 17 kilometers from Miranshah.
   Meanwhile, three SCUD missiles, fired from Kabul, landed in the Khost garrison, killing two Mujahideen and injuring one.
Iliil
                                        ' ' V
ppg
  111
 reported that put Holy Prophet (peace
  Hp»>n Mm)
                                              I|^k thine protec-;
tili^                         ;
weakness, indolence, cowardice, closedfistedness, burden of debt and overcoming of people.
                    .....     ; i


AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page Q
  Editorial
3
 Extreme views undermine opportunity for consensus
  In order to deal with the current state of affairs in Afghanistan, the Mujahideen must arrive forthwith at a consensus on major political and military issues. Every effort should be made to achieve harmony between the resistance parties and to coordinate their military and political activities.
  The only common ground among all the resistance groups is opposition to the communist regime in Kabul. This is the issue around which the Mujahideen should rally. The military and political efforts of the resistance must focus on the removal of the regime.
  But the Mujahideen differ among themselves regarding the means. Extreme attitudes among some resistance groups must be corrected, because they keep the resistance from reaching the required consensus.
  Some parties reject political initiatives proposed by the UN and countries not directly involved in the conflict, dubbing them "conspiracies against Islam."
  Others over-emphasize such international political initiatives at the expense of military efforts against the regime. Some groups insist on political concessions from other Mujahideen as a precondition for even trying to reach an understanding.
  The extremists' knee-jetk rejection of political initiatives and the insults they direct at the originators understandably weaken support for the resistance. Our cause is just, whether the outside world helps us or not, but such support can directly affect the outcome of our struggle, as well as support for the refugees and post-war reconstruction efforts.
  The Mujahideen's cause has been popular not only among foreign governments, but also among ordinary people in those countries. Behavior which could alienate the resistance's foreign supporters is extremely dangerous, for the Kabul regime will exploit every mistake we make.
  Some Mujahideen leaders act like the heads of student activist groups or minor political parties in peaceful countries. The Mujahideen have outgrown than. War continues and the future of millions of Afghans and Of peace throughout this region are at stake. Mujahideen should expect their leaders to behave more responsibly than any head of state.
  Nor does this mean that Mujahideen leaders should abandon their struggle in order to please foreigners. They should combine a firm stand on principles with a rational approach.
  At the opposite extreme, some groups give undue importance to outside political initiatives, ignoring the necessity of maintaining military pressure on the regime. These groups underestimate both the regime's military potential and that of rival Mujahideen parties.
  Developments after the Gulf crisis demonstrated this clearly. Mujahideen parties which had supported Allied war efforts formed a new alliance in a bid to muster outside support This development allowed the former king to intensify his political efforts.
  Demands for political concessions on ethnic or religious bases have further hindered attempts at unity. Hezb Wahdat, a Shia party based in Iran, has refused to participate in a propose commission with Peshawar-based Mujahideen, on the ground that they have been accorded too few seats on it
  As Prof. Rabbani has said, the main problem is that some parties assume the current arrangements are permanent, when in fact they are only meant to address the immediate situation, and any inequities may be resolved later. Disputes over the number of seats accorded parties in the commission should not be allowed to impede a consensus.
                        m* To page (8)
 UN hopeful about political settlement
  The UN Secretary General's special envoy on Afghanistan, Benon Sevan, has said that the majority of Afghans supported the UN five-point plan.
  He has left for Geneva to talk with representatives of Iran and then will go to Rome to meet with the former king, who has intensified his efforts to play a role in the peace process.
  The UN announced its plan for the settlement of Afghan issue on May 21. According to the plan, the supply of arms should be stopped to both sides of the conflict; an interim administration should be formed in Kabul and elections should be held for the formation of a permanent government. To do these things, the plan envisages holding talks between Afghans. All the resistance parties have expressed their opposition to the participation of Kabul in such talks. Two Mujahideen leaders, Sayyaf and Hikmatyar, have rejected the UN plan, while the rest have shown reservations about some of its points.
  Meanwhile, Pakistan's Foreign Ministry has increased its efforts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. Akram Zaki, the Foreign Secretary of Pakistan held talks with some Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. They included Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Mujaddidi, Sayyed Ahmad Gailani and representatives of other parties. The purpose of these activities is to coordinate the position of the Mujahideen and the government of Pakistan on evolving a formula for the political solution of the Afghan problem.
  Zaki's visit to Peshawar indicates the active role of the Foreign Ministry of Pakistan, which has started to play in dealing with the political aspect of the Afghan issue. He also met with the 28-member commission of the Afghan parties, which is assigned the job of evolving a consensus formula for the political solution.
  While the 28-member commission continues its work, the Iran-based Wahdat Party refused to participate in its meetings over the issue of the number of seats they had been accorded. Wahdat Party demands five seats, while it has been offered two seats. The delegation of the Wahdat Party left Pakistan without reaching an agreement on this issue, but left behind an observer on the commission.
  The commission could not make
            To page (7)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
SC reorganized
  The Supervisory Council adopted a plan for reorganiza-ion in its sixth meeting, held hree months ago in Taliqan, he provincial capital of Takhar. The aim of the plan is to prepare the Council for shouldering greater military and political responsibilities in the country. .
  The sixth meeting of the Supervisory Council (SC) began on April 26. Representatives from 13 provinces, including Kabul, Laghman and Bamyan, took part.
  According to the plan, a General Council will be created for the SC. Ninety percent of the GC members will elected by the people and the remaining 10 percent will be appointed by the chairman of the SC from among scholars, elders and technocrats.
  The capital of each province will send up to five representatives, each district up to four representatives and each sub-district up to two representatives. The exact number of representatives from each constituency will be determined by the population density and Jami'at's influence in the area. The head of provincial offices and chairmen of the committees of the SC and ranking officers of the Islamic Army will also be members of the General Council.
  Elections for the General Council will be supervised by a combined delegation of the Political and Election committees of the SC.
  Candidates for the membership of General Council must meet certain conditions: They should not have been found guilty of a crime by a court, should not be suspected of sympathizing with leftist groups nor be members Of rival political groups. They should have begun Jehad before 1987.
  The General Council acts as a parliament of the SC. It approves the political and military programs of the
 Council, and appoints the chairman of the Council along with a two-thirds majority of its present members. It also appoints 8 members to the High Council to supervise the daily woik of SC. The members of the High Council should have joined the Islamic movement before 1978.
   The authority to promote or demote officers of SC and the Islamic army and supervise distribution of funds and supplies rests with the High CounciLThe chairman of the SC will also be the head of the High Council.
   An Executive Council will be formed from the heads of the committees of SC. The heads of the committees are selected by the GC.
   Among other issues discussed in the sixth meeting, distribution of funds and supplies to different bases and fronts was discussed. After thorough discussion of all aspects of the problem, it was decided that full authority be given to to the chairman of the SC, Ahmad Shah Masood, to allocate funds and supplies the way he deemed fiL No formula could be made because the Council's income was not fixed.
   The meeting called on all Mujahideen to minimize their expenditures and take steps towards self-sufficiency. Funds saved by austerity measureswill be used for reconstruction purposes, which are very vital for the well-being of die people.
   The sixth meeting also voted for the creation of an elections committee. The Council believes that the fall of the Kabul regime is imminent. Holding - elections for die creation of a new and stable government is the only logical way of solving the problem. The Elections Committee would prepare data about the strength of Jami'at and other parties and pave the way for holding elections, party or general, when the time comes.
 'Pravda blames communists for present Afghan crisis
   Pravda, the official organ of the Soviet Communist Party, has blamed the PDPA leadership for thepresentcrisis in Afghanistan.
   The paper says the leaders of the Watan Party (formerly PDPA) oppose each other, but it expresses hope that the panywiU play apositive role in thefuture of Afghanistan.
   "The people might be opposed to Najib, but this does not mean that they are opposed to the par-ty,"the paper writes.
   The paper says the party leadership might replace Najib for the sake of peace, but the role of the PDPA in the future of Afghanistan cannot be ignored
   The paper reveals that some members of Watan Party are in favor of convening a party conference in which dissident members of the party Aodd also take part The return of Babrak and Keshtmand from Moscow, the paper says, is a step towards that end.
   This is thefirst time that Pravdahas mentioned so openly the posiMereplaceinem ofNajib.
 rom Iraqi soldiers during ike Gulf War to     Afghan Mujahideen, CNN
  grant scholarship for seven members
                HI"
             mm
 The US Government refused to

These stud     iised the quail?
iik^                were sup-
posed to t^Knitted to the

 men from h& botse in Peshawar on I ituyy.                           i
  called .!Taryad, was famousjfor bp I
  pro-Zhhb-. Shah. views. He wa&aiao
       , . .... .
                                                                                                                       The Mitjahitfeettfired 16 ground-to-ground rockets ipto KabuTbn 8
                                                                 -         g   I
                                                               '' ••• ' 1
BM^giiagBiBa      an
of illness in Peshawar on July 1.
 Jurm District, Badakhshan Province! when it was liberated in 1979. SawdJ |is younger broths' of Sufi Qurbanl Mohammad, a veteran of the Islamic movement. He had since
ms
111/
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 14, July 15,1991, page ©
Hlfjit
> Sayyed Mohammad Roeen
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Sayyed Mohammad Roeen
  Sayyed Mohammad Roeen, known as Aamir-i-Mujahid, is the Chief Administrator ( Amir) of Jami'at in khar Province and a central figure of the Supervisory Council.
  Roeen returned to Takhar from Pakistan in 1983 and was appointed Amir, of that province. On the way to Takhar, he spent some time with Masood in Panjshir and discussed with Mm his future work. In those days Jami'at Mujahideen in Takhar were not organized. Each commander acted on his own. This weakness prevented Jami'at from playing a role as the majority party of the Mujahideen in a strategic area.
  Roeen made Farkhar Valley his base and started to work for the improvement of the situation. In the meantime,
 Masood had started to work in the North and established the first base of die Supervisory Cpuncil in Khaylab Valley, Eshkamish District As the time passed, Jami'afs Mujahideen realized that they were not able to do fight the Soviets effectively if they did not unite their ranks. The Mujahideen in Takhar were becoming increasingly interested in the type of work Masood had successfully - undertaken in Panjshir. Roeen started to cooperate with the newly-established Supervisory Council. The situation in Farkhar and adjoining areas improved and, in 1984 and 1987, Farkhar and Kalafgan garrisons were captured.
 These victories established Farkhar as die main base of die Supervisory Council. Sayyed Ahmad Roeen played an extremely useful role in the above achievements. Masood praises the commitment and zeal with which Roeen pursued the task he was assigned to accomplish.
  Roeen was injured in a road accident in Farkhar in 1987. He was treated in the United States and returned to Takhar soon after his recovery.
  He emigrated from Kabul to Peshawar in 1979. In Peshawar, he was in charge of feeding and lodging visiting Mujahideen. This is the reason why he gained the tide of Amir-i-Mujahid (the head of the Mujahideen).
 of work in the Ministry ofN Mines and Industries, he joined the Faculty of Engineering of Kabul University. He was expelled from the faculty in 1975 because of his connection with the Islamic Movement. In the same year, he was jailed for three months because of political activities.
   After a year of military service, he started to work in the Cartographic Institute of the Ministry of Mines arid Industry. At the start of the communist coup, he waked for three months to mark the border between Afghanistan and Tajikistan Republic of USSR.
   Roeen was politically active during his service in the Ministry of Mines and Industries. He encouraged many workers and officers of that ministry to join the resistance. He also smuggled out maps of Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan and gave them to Jami'at's Military * Committee and some field commanders to be used for planning military operations.
   Many workers of the ministry joined the Islamic Movement as a result of Roeen's work. One of .them was Mohammad Ebrahim from Panjshir, who became one of the early supporters of Ahmad Shah Masood. Commander Ebrahim lost one of his hands in fighting ajgainst the Soviets and went to Switzerland for treatment On the way back to Panjshir, he was martyred by bandits in Laghman Province.
   Roeen was bom in 1951 in Agsai village, Chah Ab District His father, Sayyed Rahmatullah, was a religious
 General Razaie meets Afghans
  GtmeraT Mohan Rezase, the Chief Commander of the Revolutionary Guards of the Islamic Republic d| Iran, met with Mujahideen leaders; and commanders in Islamabad during his via^ Pakistan. *
  Prof. Rabbam, Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani and Mawiawi Nafri Mohammad! were among a group of Afghans who met with the Iranian commander.
  Expressing support for the cause of the Afghans, General Resale said Iran and Pakistan were coordinating their efforts for achievement of a settlement in Afghanistan He also discussed Kashmir and Gulf security with Pakistan leaders.
 NIFA minister
 quits office
  Farooq Azam, the AIG Education Minister and deputy chief df NIFA, has resigned from his posts in the AIG and his party.
                                                                             Be called the AIG "a dead organi-and criticized1 Prof and Sayyed Ahmad
_ .    ..     .    ,      ,   ..  .  scholar who earned his living through
Durmg his slay in Peshawar, he prav«d w        OT ^ tann
tA KA A H/VMAA# AAW1/MI ««tKn AA«tlA<1      w                        * *
                                                                                                    Mohammad learned the basics of Islam
to be a honest person who served the cause of Islam selflessly.
  Roeen joined the Islamic Movement through his cousin, Sayyed Enayatidlah Shadab, in 1971 when he was still a high school student He studied at Habibia High School up to tiie 9th class, and then joined Afghan Institute of Technology. After one year
 from his father and later went to Manoochehry primary school in Chah Ab.
  Roeen is married and has one child. Being one of pioneers of the Islamic Movement, he tries to bring the early members of the movement close
cess after it'was started; He also criticized <&3ani, his party leader, for
        met wftlrNajib in Geneva; but continues to deny It
  It is oe secret that Farooq Azam had differences of opinion with his leader for many years, but oeverthe-
                                                                                                               smarts. In an interview with the BBC claimed he had sacked
party leader one mentii beforf.

 According to AUSTCARE, the
Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) has approved more than Auu. $500,000 for Afghan refugee                  Ihe
eraey,, reconstruction and^rehaislita-tioa, and a mobile eye clinic. The aid is to be channeled tiirou AUSTCARE. AV1CEN, Save the Children Fund, the International Rescue Committee (IRC), and the Agency Coordinating Body I Afghan Relief (ACBAR) are u receive mast of the AIDAB funds
                                            AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15, 1991, page 0
Mujahideen propose prisoners exhchange
  The Afzali Front in Herat has offered to release a Soviet POW in return for freedom for 25 Mujahideen imprisoned by the Kabul regime.
  The Soviet soldier, Qurban Ali, son of Hikmatullah, from          Kulyab,
 Tajikistan Republic, was caught in 1984 near Torghondi in Herat Province.
  A spokesman of the front said they had approached the Soviet embassy in Islamabad, offering the release of Qurban Ali provided three of their conditions were met:         Twenty-five
 Mujahideen held by the Kabul regime be released; Qurban^ father be present at the time of his release, and the exchange of POWs should take place in the presence of journalists.
  A committee of mothers and wives of missing Soviet soldiers left for Moscow after meeting Najibullah and top regime officials on their second trip to Afghanistan.
  The committee, called "Hope", represents a large number of Soviet women who lost their sons and husbands during the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989.
  The committee, formed after Soviet troops pulled out of Afghanistan in 1989, plans to discuss the issue with Pakistani authorities as well as US legislators. "We want everyone connected with the Afghan problem to help us
UN builds two schools in Jurm
  The UN has provided funds for the repair of two girls' schools in Jurm District, Badakhshan Province, the reconstruction office of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar reported.
  The Supervisory Council banned cultivation of poppy in the areas it controlled in Badakhshan one year ago. In order to find alternative means of living for the people, it contacted the UN for assistance. A joint survey team of the UN and SC went to the area to estimate the needs of the people.
  The United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control has agreed to provide funds for the repair of two high schools in Jurm. The construction work will be done by the SC Reconstruction Committee. The project will provide job opportunities for local people. It is expected that the repair work on the two girls schools will be finished by the end of die current year.
 Qurban Ali Tashrtfov
 find our sons and husbands,” Evegenia Poplavskaja, president of Hope, said.
   More than one million Soviet troops were involved in the 10-year occupation and left after a bloody war with Afghan Mujahideen based in neighboring Pakistan and Iran. According to Mrs. Poplavskaja, some 15,000 Soviet soldiers have been officially confirmed killed in the war while 314 others have been listed as missing in action. Of those, the committee believes that 210 are prisoners of Mujahideen groups.
   "Our statistics for both the dead and missing are much higher than the official figures. We have an estimate of about 43,000 Soviet soldiers killed,' the Hope president said.
   The Mujahideen groups have released eight Soviet prisoners of war, and the committee said it was hopeful that it could secure the freedom of others.
   The Mujahideen blame Moscow for the delay in release of Soviet POWs. They say their humanitarian gesture of releasing some Soviet prisoners was not reciprocated. Instead, Moscow continued to pour weapons of mass de struction into Kabul and has sent more than 500 of its military advisors to as sist the regime. Soviets are also involved in cross-border military opera dons against the Mujahideen, arid their pilots fly regime planes in bombing missions. With such an attitude, expecting release of more POWs is not justified. The Soviet mothers should put pressure on their government to change its hostile attitude. The end of hostilities will pave the way for the release of POWs. This should include Mujahideen captured by the Soviets and the Kabul regime, and full information about Afghans who went missing during ten years of occupation
Police foils plot to kill Sayyaf
  Peshawar police have foiled a plot by KHAD agents to kill Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the AIG and the head of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan party.
  Four KHAD agents, three Pakistani and one Afghan, were arrested and remote control devices and 15 kilograms of explosive were recovered from their possession.
  Pakistan security organizations have also unearthed a ring of saboteurs who operated in Pakistan on behalf of KHAD, the Kabul regime secret police.
  One of the ringleaders, Gulab Mohammad from Dir District, Pakistan, was captured. He and his1 brother were hired and trained' by KHAD in Jalalabad. They had hired some other local people to carry out subversive activities in return for money.
  KHAD had ordered them to explode bombs in public places to create panic among the people.
  The source said in the past six months, a total of 71 KHAD-sponsored acts of sabotage have been recorded in N.WJFP. alone.
  Most of the Afghan refugees live in N.WF.P., and Peshawar saves as headquarters for the seven Pakistan-based political parties fighting for the overthrow of the Kabul regime.
 Political solution
                                                    From page (4)
 progress in its work because of a new grouping among the resistance parties. The three moderate parties have a common stand on the issues. They demand the formation ^of an assembly of several thousand people representing Ulamas, tribal elders 'and Mujahideen. They think such an assembly will vote for their leaders and evert the former king. Other parties insist oh a system giving key role to the Mujahideen. But the so-called fundamentalist groups do not have a common stand on the issues.
                                                                                                                — — “ «i
                                                Another Victory
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at have captured Zebak garrison in Badakhshan . The details of the operation will " be published in the next issue of AFGHANews (God willing).
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 14, July 15,1991, page
Masood hopeful of major gains
  [This is the text of a recent interview of Ahmad Shah Masood with a French Journalist. The interview was done through a radio. This interview has already been published in "Le Monde."]
  Question: When Khwaja Ghar was re-captured by regime forces, one general said that Masood's attack on the town was a provocation to the Soviet Union. Why did you first attack Khwaja Ghar, which is located near the Soviet border?
  Answer: Khwaja Ghar was an important base of the Kabul regime in the north. It was the provincial capital of Takhar, and the home base of the SAZA and SAFZA, two communist factions. Khwaja Ghar served as the headquarters of army and militia units in Dasht-i-Archi, Yangi Qala, Darqad and Rustaq, whose strength reached 2,000 men.
  The proximity of Khwaja Ghar to the Soviet border added to its importance. During the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, SAFZA and SAZA factions were directly helped by the Russians to provide security for the Soviet border.
  With the fall of Khwaja Ghar, an important base of the Kabul regime, the two communist factions which had militia units in many areas in the north lost their main base. This is an important development for .our work in the area.
  Question: Do you support the United Nations' peace efforts?
  Answer: UN efforts to bring peace to Afghanistan are appreciable, but as long as Najib is in power or has a share in power, in one form or another, UN efforts will not succeed.
  Question: It seems . that the Mujahideen are still very far from political unity. What is the main reason for this?
  Answer: Disunity among the Mujahideen has many causes. Thanks Allah that the Mujahideen, especially those inside Afghanistan, are now more united than any other time in the past. We hope dial as a result of the commandos' efforts, better unity is brought among the Mujahideen of different parties and areas.
  Question: The commanders held several meetings last year to forge greater coordination in the military field. Do you see any progress this summer?
   Answer: Last year’s meetings of commanders had a positive military and political result I hope more steps are taken in this direction during the cunentyear.
   Question: There has been no big military achievement since the capture of Khost and your operations in the North. Do you think that the Mujahideen can gain the upper hand in die military operations against a regime which has proved to have better equipment and training?
   Answer: So far, the Mujahideen have not started big operations.. With the opening of the mountain passes and the arrival of supplies, I hope the level of fighting will go up and the Mujahideen will score some major victories.
   The fall of the Kabul regime is imminent Contrary to the outside view about the strength of the Kabul regime, it is very weak. With die fall of two or three cities, one will witness rapid developments all over the country.
   Question: Some people say that one of die main reasons for disunity among Mujahideen lies with external countries involved in the conflict. Do you think that ultimately Mujahideen will achieve national independence?
   Answer: Interference of outside powers is a factor in disunity among the Mujahideen, but its effect is limited to external bases of the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen inside enjoy freedom of action, and major fronts are opposed to outside dependence.
   Question: No elections were held in the North between your people and Hezb-i-Islami, contrary to the agreement of last October with Hikmatyar. What happened exactly?
   Answer: Unfortunately, a commander of Hezb, in contradiction to the agreement signed by his leadership, acted in such way that holding elections became impossible. Now that the problem of that particular Hezb commander has been solved, conditions will be conducive for holding elections.
   Question: Would ypu be ready to have direct talks with the Soviet Union?
   Answer: The Mujahideen's position is well-known. They are ready for direct talks with the Soviets.
Editorial
                                                  From page (4)
  The Mujahideen must strike a balance of political and military action. Rejecting reasonable political initiatives and ignoring die importance of armed struggle are equally dangerous. While outside factors cannot be ignored, internal factors must have priority.
  Unity and consensus must be our primary immediate objective. Our country needs such unity more than ever before. We should not bum the bridges of understanding between different parties for the sake of outside support.
  Practical issues must be addressed first. And once all sections of the society are assured of fair treatment, disputes over the numbers of seats on representative bodies will fade away on their own.
  Adopting and implementing such a policy will be difficult It will require a complex administrative structure^ and would be liable to the pitfalls of vagueness and indirection. But for the sake of national unity, the Mujahideen must try.
  Jami'at could act as a bridge between the two poles of the resistance, and stands realty to play arole in weaving a consensus among different groups. This is a noble and Islamic goal.
 A.I. accuse Kabiil of torturing prisoners
  Amnesty International has accused the Kabul regime of summary execu tion and torture of prisoners.
  The report says the regime has failed to provide fresh information about Afghans who disappeared in previous years.
  An ex-prisoner told Amnesty that he was given electric shocks and beaten and that his teeth were broken to force him to sign a paper admitting that he was spying for the Mujahideen.
                                                                                        us publish AfgMMCezOs!
                                         T,(ease send your donations to the foCUrwing account number:
         fEJfpPD Account 9fp. 735-37 5fabib‘Bank.Ltd.
                                            Tehkcd Bala , Peshawar Pakistan