Vol 6, No 5                                                March 1,1990
WMmmy//,
     A five member delegation of the AIG headed by Sayed Ahmad Gailani left for Tehran on February 20 to discuss the election plan with Iranian officials and the nine-party alliance based in Tehran. Prof. Rabbani was a member of the delegation.
     The delegation met with Dr. Velayati, the foreign minister of Iran on February 25 and discussed with him election  plans to       be  held   in
Afghanistan.
     Velayati said: " Any plan concerning Afghanistan should observe the rights of all our oppressed Afghan brothers.”
     The delegation was supposed to meet with the leaders of the eight-party Alliance to persuade them to participate in the AIG-pIanned elections.
     The Iran-based parties did not participate in the AIG because of a disagreement on the number of seats allocated to them in the Consultative Shoora which elected the AIG.
     Concerning the proposed elections by the AIG, the Iran-based parties have raised some questions about the number of constituencies and participation of women. One of their leaders, Khalili have asked for the dissolution of the AIG before they could participate in the elections.
     The AIG plan has accepted the old electoral constituencies as a base for elections. The Shia parties think that this division (originally made during the king’s rule ) is not a just division.. They think it discriminates against the central pahs of Afghanistan.
     Shia parties claim to represent a quarter of the whole population of Afghanistan while others estimate Shias to form 7 to 15% of the population.
     Meantime, General Mirza Aslam Big, the Chief of the Army Staff of Pakistan visited Iran and discussed the Afghan situation with the Iranian leaders.
40 killed, 500 injured in clashes with army
in
     Forty people were killed and more than 500 were wounded in clashes between the Soviet security forces and Tajiks in Doshanbe, the capital of Tajikistan in Central Asia on February 12 and 13.
     The rumors that Armenian refugees were being resettled in Tajikistan triggered the three day riot but it turned into a platform for demanding political and economic reforms for Tajiks.
     Gorbachev called the situation in Tajikistan ’dangerous' and stressed the need for strong measures to deal with the situation..
     Tanks were send to Doshanbe to bring the situation under control. Demonstrators shouted Down with Russians'. They also demanded the withdrawal of other ethnic groups from Tajikistan.
     Russian ethnic groups form 5% of the population. They are worried about their security. According to reports by the Soviet media, the demonstrators were demanding the resignation of communist officials and wanted the power to be transferred to clergymen.
     It was also reported that the demonstrators attempted to take control of
Doshanbe airport but did not succeed.
     Tajikistan has a population of five million who are Muslims and speak Persian.
     Armenians living in Central Asia form a small, but rich minority who are resented by the local population.
     Central Asian republics have a population of 35 million and most of its people are Muslims and have Turkic or Tajik ethnic roots.
     The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul accused the Mujahideen of sending arms and money to the Tajiks. Prof. Rabbani, Jami’at's leader, has rejected any involvement of the Mujahideen in the disturbances in Central Asia and has called it a natural outcome of 70 years of Moscow’s oppression.
     Commander Masood has sympathized with the uprising of the Muslims in the Soviet Union to gain religious, economic and social freedoms.
     The Afghan war has had an indirect effect on developments in Soviet Central Asia.
     The people in these areas were impressed by the resistance of the jAfghans_againsnhej5^^
             Soviet diplomat warns Mujahideen against attacks on Kabul airport
    The Soviet Ambassador to Kabul has warned the Mujahideen of severe reactions by his country if Soviet citizens are harmed in Afghanistan.
    In a press Conference held in Kabul on February 25, he accused the Mujahideen of trying to disturb air traffic between Kabul and the rest of the world. He said the Mujahideen fired a Stinger missile at a landing Soviet transport plane on February 2. " They fire rockets into the airport when Soviet planes bring supplies to Kabul," he said.
    The Soviet Ambassador, Boris Pastakhov, did not state clearly what
form the Soviet reaction would take if any "Soviet citizen" was harmed.
     Kabul airport is one of the targets of the Mujahideen attacks. Soviet planes bring supplies of a military nature to Kabul to keep Najibullah's regime in power.
     The Mujahideen say that their war with the Soviet Union still continues in a different form. While it is natural for Afghan Mujahideen to attack enemy transportation lines, it is not clear why the Soviets in Afghanistan expected better treatment from the Mujahideen?
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1, 1990, page ©
    Takhar province
    The Kabul regime suffered a major setback in the North when the Mujahideen killed the governor of Takhar and 40 Other regime military and political figures of the province in an attack near Khawja-i-Ghar district on February 20.
    An enemy convoy wanted to take supplies to the newly established 55th division in Khwaja-i-Ghar two months ago but the road was blocked by Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council. On February 20 the enemy launched a two-pronged attack from Khawja-i-Grhar and Kunduz directions to open the road for the supply convoy. In the fighting which continued for 4 days the Mujahideen destroyed 10 tanks and armored cars and a large number of trucks and killed about forty enemy soldiers and officers including Mohammad Elyas Saifi, the governor of Takhar. The fighting took place in a relatively flat area.
    The Mujahideen force were composed of about 200 men from the Council army commanded by Sayed Yahya.
    Faryab province
    The .Mujahideen from Jami'at killed 40 enemy militiamen and liberated four villages close to Maimana on January 31. The Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Sayed Yousuf liberated Juma Bazar and three other villages and brought under their control Maimana-Shereen Tagab road.
    Regime forces launched a counter attack to recapture the area they lost, but failed to force the Mujahideen out of the newly liberated areas.
    In the fighting the Mujahideen killed 40, wounded 50 and captured 20 soldiers. Thirty armed soldiers also defected to the Mujahideen.
    Nineteen Mujahideen were killed and 41 injured in the operation.
    Balkh province
    The Mujahideen under the command of Moalem Ata attacked liberated village in Nahr-i-Shahi district and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy forces.
    On February 22, the Mujahideen attacked Seyah Gerd village, capturing two militia commanders and ten soldiers and seizing the following weapons:
1- Kalashnikov 150 
2- Armored car   1 
3-ZPU           10 
4- 76mm          1 
5- Mortars       2 
6- Trucks        2 
    60 soldiers joined the Mujahideen bringing 44 AK-47s. One truck was set on fire, H) enemy soldiers were killed and three were injured
    On 23 February, the Mujahideen captured another enemy post and seized the following weapons:
1-ZPU            1 
2- Mortar        1 
3-AK-47 rifles 127 
4-Radio sets     2 
5- Trucks        1 
    Eleven enemy soldiers were captured, ten were killed and six wounded.
    The new liberated villages have a population of abut 20,000.
Samangan province
    The ^Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Aibak with heavy weapons, destroying one BM-21 rocket launcher, two armoured cars and six trucks on 21 February.
    The enemy retaliated by firing rockets into the residential areas, killing two civilian^ Mazaar-Puli Khumri road was blocked at least for six. days starting from February 15.
 Kandahar province
   Mullah Faizullah reports that the Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter with a ZPU (14.6 mm) machine gun in Dand district on February 20.
   Farah province
   The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy position in Nagan area of Shindand, killing five enemy soldiers and wounding seven. One Mujahid was also injured.
   Ghore province
   The Mujahideen under the command of Mawlawi Musa killed eight militiameh and destroyed one jeep in Ghore on February 22.
| '■y'v \'V.
  reaches Gerdiz
    One hundred vehicles bringing food, fuel and ammunition reached Gerdiz, the provincial capital of Paktia after covering a distance of about 100 miles in 42 days.
    The convoy started its journey on January 2, but was halted in Logar by the Mujahideen. Despite severe cold weather and shortages of ammunition the Mujahideen put up a tough resistance, and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
    Logar is a relatively flat province with little cover during winter. The enemy made extensive use of rocket, artillery and aircraft against the resistance and in some cases launched ground attacks from several directions. A large number of government troops and militiamen brought from different parts of Afghanistan took part in the attack.
    With these supplies the regime force in Gerdiz could hold out longer and supplies could even be airlifted to Khost which is besieged by the Mujahideen.
    The arrival of the convoy to Gerdiz was an apparent victory for the regime army but the Mujahideen who fight a guerrilla war held it up for a long time.
    The Mujahideen in the Khost front captured the strategic mountain-top post of Toor-Ghar, ova: looking Khost airport.
    If the Mujahideen can hold this place, they can make the airport unsafe for supply planes of the enemy to land. The Regime's garrison in the border town of Khost is supplied by air.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Sahibul Haq
    Commander Sahibul Haq was bom 37 years ago in the village of Sufi Baba in the district of Bagram of Parwan province. His father, Mia Ali Khan, iom the Mia Khail Pushtoon tribe, was a farmer possessing a piece of land with a small garden in the village of Sufi Baba.
    Sahibul Haq completed his primary schooling in Qala-i-Beland and his high schooling in the center of Bagram district. Sahibul Haq also studied the basics of Islam and the Holy Quran in the Mosque near his house. His Father stressed to him that without strong faith in Islam one could not benefit from school education.
    Upon completing his secondary education he worked as a farmer with his father. Later Sahibul Haq tried to find meaningful employment in Kabul, but this proved unsuccessful due to his lack of contacts. As a consequence he departed for Saudi Arabia and started to work as an ordinary worker. For approximately three years he worked in Saudi Arabia until the communists
 took power in Afghanistan in 1978. This prompted Sahibul Haq to return to Afghanistan and fight against the communists.
     At first Sahibul Haq travelled to the Bagram area of Afghanistan and joined the Mujahideen. His first posting was at the base located in the first mountain of the eastern flank of Sufi Baba. Sahibul Haq's representative stresses that conditions were extremely difficult for Sahibul Haq and his men. In 1981, Sahibul Haq met for the first time Commander Masood in the Panjshir Valley who gave him advise in relation to fighting strategies and methods. Subsequently the two commanders have developed a strong friendship.
     Initially Sahibul Haq had just 20 men under his command. This has now expanded to approximately 3S0 men, in addition to 15 sub-bases under the command of four junior commanders. Their primary role is to place pressure upon die enemy's air base and security posts around Bagram. Sahibul Haq personally fights in all big operations.
Gom. Damullah Sayed Ameer
     Commander Damullah Sayed Ameer s/o Rahmatullah was bom in Daraeem valley of Badakhshan about 46 years ago.
     His father was a farmer. "Poverty was a part of his family's life," said his representative in Peshawar. As a north-on Tajik villager, his father used to keep one or two horses to play Buzkashi (Afghan polo). His father was a good rider, so his son also became one of the best known Buzkashi players.
     Commander Sayed Ameer did his primary education in the mosques of his village and completed his higher education in the religious schools, called Madrasas in Takhar and Kunduz provinces.
     When the communists took power in 1978, Damullah Sayed Ameer left his studies and joined the Mujahideen. He started to worked as a Mujahid first and later became the commander of Daraeem.
     SayedA meer presonally leads his Mujahideen in fighting against the Russians and the puppets. He has good relations with other commanders.
     His groups have also participated in operations outside his valley. He led his Mujahideen in fighting the enemy in Keshm district which resulted in the capture of the district two years ago. Two of his Mujahideen were killed and
he himself sustained minor injuries.
    In fighting around Faizabad in 1980 he lost 14 men and 25 of his Mujahideen were wounded. Six of his Mujahideen were captured by the Russians in the same battle. The capture of his men by the enemy was a painful experience which still bothers him.
    Commander SayedAmeer has helped his people to open schools in the valley. He has lost 14 members of his own family in the war against the Soviets. He is a soft-spoken person a and a kind commander. SayedAmeer is the father of three children,
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
1
 <*5.1                       <*i>I I
 A bird that has flown from the hand will not return.
 Meaning: It's no use crying over spilt milk.
 .JuJjj 4a IJ jl iya 4±jS die
 Salt preserves meat, but what can be done with salt if it is bad.
 Meaning: If you have too many preoccupations, you will succeed at none of them.
       JuuSu                  U
 A mother won’t give milk to her child until he cries.
 Meaning: Unless we ask for something, we don't get it.
   ■tpAJ             J9 J*
 Even if a knife is made of silver, a person won't stab his own heart with it
 Meaning: Don't side with your best friend or even with your sojt if he is in the wrong.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1,1990, page ©
Editorial  A 
V _          
 our
  Soviet Muslim brothers
    Disturbances in the Central Asian republics of USSR and Azerbaijan represent a revolt against communism and a popular reaction against the seven-decade-long oppressive rule of Moscow.
    The communist system harmed all people in the Russian empire, but its first victims were Muslim minorities in the South Caucasus and Central Asia.
    Islam, being a way of life, asks its followers to oppose Godless systems and tyranny. For decades Muslims fought against Moscow. The Jehad of Immam Shamil in the Caucasus and the struggle of Muslims in Central Asia, called the 'Basmachi movement', were part of such a resistance by Muslims.
    Under the communist system, the Muslim places of worship, their libraries, clergies, language and customs were not immune from attack by the state machinery.
    Because of the bad treatment the Muslims received in Russia, their discontent with the system is natural.
    People are looking for small excuses to express their long-suppressed anger with the system. Ethnic issues which were designed by Moscow leaders to divide the Muslims so that they could be ruled easily, now have become a catalyst for the expression of social, political and economic grievances.'
    The Afghan resistance sympathize with the struggle of Muslims in the Soviet Union because of the religious, linguistic and ethnic ties between the two people and because Moscow is the common enemy of the two.
    The Sympathy does not change the fact that the trouble has indigenous roots.
    Some Westerners advise the Mujahideen not to create problems for Gorbachev by expressing support to the Muslims in Central Asia because they think Gorbachev is working for peace and he should be given a chance.
    These people are looking at 'western face' of Gorbachev which looks humane and reconciliatory while his 'eastern face' is mean and inhumane. Gorbachev might have taken some steps towards peace in Europe, but his Afghan policy has been the promotion of war and imposition of the illegal communist regime of Najibullah on Afghans through this promotion.
    He shows a compromising attitude towards demands by Baltic states but crashes the popular movements in Azerbaijan and Tajikistan.
    Western countries have failed to criticize Moscow’s violent behavior in Azerbaijan and Tajikistan because they want to be nice to Gorbachev. If the same thing had' happened in other parts of the world or even in some other parts of die Soviet Union, it would certainly have provoked a strong international reaction.
    The indifference of the Islamic countries in regard to the problems of Muslims in the Soviet Union is deplorable. Muslims all over the world should show their solidarity with the Muslims in the Soviet Union and they should make it clear to the Soviet leaders that the use of force against their brothem in faith will not be tolerated.
    The Afghan resistance should play a leading rule in keeping the world informed about the situation in Cen&aLAsia-

close friend
     Mohammad Elyas Saifi, 40, was born in Panjshir. His father, Abdur Ghiyas, was a school teacher. Elyas studied in primary school in Farkhar and Khawja-i-Ghar, where his father served as a headmaster.
     He entered Teacher Training School in Kabul in the late '60s and became a member of die Parcham faction of the PDPA.
     After graduation, he became a teacher in Takhar province. Elyas became an official of KHAD when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, After serving for sometime in the headquarters of KHAD during which he also received training, he became the head of KHAD in Takhar province. During his service in Kabul he became closely connected to Najibullah who served as the chief of KHAD at that time.
     Elyas was sent to Takhar for three major reasons:
     1-     He grew up there and he knew the people.
     2-     Since he was from Panjshir he was considered a good officer to fight against Masood's influence which had started to spread in the North.
     3-       Since he was a veteran Parchami and a close associate of Najib, his presence in an area where other communist factions dominated was important for Najib.
     He served many years in. Takhar and later became the head of KHAD for Takhar and Kunduz provinces. He was one of the few people who resisted the Mujahideen attack in Kunduz airport in 1988 until the Soviets sent their planes to bomb the Mujahideen out of the city which they had liberated.
     He was the only person in his family fighting for the wrong cause. All his relatives are affiliated with the Mujahideen. His cousins are active fighters and one erf his cousin's was killed in the war two years ago. One erf his brothers served several years in jail foranti-regime activities.        1
     The Kabul regime was shocked when he was killed in fighting on February 20 . He was given the rank of a General in recognition of his service for the regime and the Soviets. .
     Elyas' death will have a negative effect on Najib's plans in the North because he does not have a qualified person to replace him.
                               AFGHANews Vol 6, No5, March 1,1990, page Q
Ex-king may prefer remaining in exile over than ruling a devastated country
  By: Habibur Rahaman
     The recent meeting of the ex-king with the Italian President and Prime Minister of Italy indicates the importance some Western countries attach to his possible role in bringing peace to Afghanistan.                        v
     The role of Zahir Shah as a peacemaker has always been discussed in Afghan and diplomatic circles, but lately he has been the center of attention.
     The main reason for this development is the lack of Mujahideen progress in the battlefield and political differences among them.
     The Soviet Union sent a delegation in 1988 to meet the ex-king in Italy. The move was a divisive tactic to weaken the resistance. The same Russian delegation had earlier talked to the Mujahideen based seperately in Pakistan and Iran.
     The United States send an official envoy to meet him openly last year. But meanwhile US officials have said that they do not support a specific person.
     Before the Malta summit, the Soviet foreign minister visited the ex-king in Italy and discussed with him the situation in Afghanistan. The Soviet Union and the Kabul regime have been saying that they see a positive role in Zahir Shah in bringing peace to Afghanistan. But so far they have not hinted at offering him any specific role. The ex-king has rejected power-sharing with the Kabul regime which seems a wise decision.
     As far as the Afghans are concerned they are divided over his future role. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen parties have openly expressed their opposition to Zahir Shah's return while some parties (earlier called moderates) either have had close contacts with him or have not opposed his possible return.
     Among the Afghans who have supported Zahir Shah have been some Mujahideen from Kandahar province. These Mujahideen are affiliated with Pir Gailani who does not hide his friendship with the ex-monarch.
     Other moderate parties who did not oppose the return of the king are part of the AIG but recently they have not made references to this subject.
     Those who oppose the return of the king, justify their stand on ideological grounds and think that supporting his return contradicts the aim of Jehad which is to establish an Islamic government. They hold the ex-king responsi-
                    J
 ble for die influence of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan.
     There are some factors which work in favor of the ex-king while others put him in a difficult position.
     He is a recognized figure both in Afghanistan and outside the country. Neither Afghans nor outsiders associate him with the horrible situation that the communist leaders created in Afghanistan.
     Lack of unity among the Mujahideen leaders and absence of a dominating figure in the resistance camp has put Zahir Shah in a good position.
     For the outsiders (including the Soviet Union and West) he is a moderate person who would be prefered over the present Mujahideen leadership who had fought against die Soviet Union, and work for the creation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     It is natural that the secular elements, leftist intellectuals and some tribal leaders favor his return, but for different reasons.
     There are many problems in his way which makes his chances of success very narrow. He will be opposed by the Islamists in the Afghan resistance which are well armed and organized. So far these groups (including some effective field commanders) have not hidden their opposition to his return.
     The other problem is the lack of an organization to work for him. The creation of such an organization needs enough trained manpower and, more importantly time, which might not be available.
     Zahir Shah's personality is also an hindrance. He is accused of being a weak person who is afraid to face challenges. A war-tom country with so many contesting groups requires a strong leader who should face the challenges with courage and determination. So far he has been waiting for the two super powers to give him a green light and for all Afghans unanimously to ask him to return- something which might not happen.
     The ex-king's supporters call themselves nationalists to distinguish themselves from the Islamists who are called fundamentalists. But it would be wrong to think that the king was a real national leader returning to his people after 18 years in exile to inspire them for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
 Like many leaders of third world countries he was ruling the people without sharing their way of life. His food, house, clothes, associates, literature and habits were different from 95% of the people of Afghanistan.
     On the top of it all, 11 years of war has changed Afghan society so much that he will rind it very different After 18 years he might rind Afghanistan difficult to control especially when there are not enough close friends and an effective organization to assist him.
     As long as the present stalemate prevails in the political and military fronts of Afghanistan, Zahir Shah's return will be subject for discussion.
                                                  Ex-king offered executive role
     The Regime's foreign minister, Abdul Wakil, completed a four day visit to India during which he talked to Indian leaders about the situation in Afghanistan and the expansion of cooperation between the two countries.
     Mr. Wakil arrived in New Delhi on 13 February and held talks with the foreign minister, prime minister and officials of commerce and defense.
     During his meeting with the Indian foreign minister he expressed support for New Delhi's position on the Kashmir issue.
     India has remained a close trade partner of the Kabul regime, during the years of occupation and since then.
     India has shown concern about what they call' Islamic fundamentalism' in Afghanistan.
     India also resents the close link of the Mujahideen with Pakistan which provided support for them during the long years of occupation because of its rivalry with Pakistan.
     India despite being a big country has wrongly supported Moscow's expansionist policies in Afghanistan and Cambodia.
     Mr. Wakil met with journalists in India and talked to them about "the executive rule of Zahir Shah" a coalition government . He did not elaborate about the executive role of the king.
     India favors the return of the ex-king but because of its pro-Soviet line that country can not play the role of a peacemaker.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 5, March 1, 1990, page ©
Jami'at Islami believes in final Mujahideen victory
   Otillie English
     Mohammed Es'Haq, a political officer of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan visited Washington, DC on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. The Committee for a Free Afghanistan, the American organization hosting Es'Haq's visit, held a press conference on February 14, at 2105 Rayburn House Office Building. At the press conference, Es’Haq spoke at great length regarding the Afghan’s continued struggle for self-determination, and the problems the Resistance has had during the past year.
     "What we want the United States to understand", said Es’Haq, "is that our struggle is not merely to oust one puppet, but the overthrow of the entire communist system. Therefore, merely removing Najib will not alleviate the situation."
     The press conference was attended by NBC News, CNN, CBN, Associated Press, Reuters, the Washington Times, the Wall Street Journal, Federal News Service, the Washington Inquirer, Voice of America, Selcai-Nippo of Japan and the Turkiye Daily. Congressmen Charles Wilson and Don Ritter, avid supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen, co-sponsored the event In addition to the Press Conference, Es'Haq met individually with reporters covering Afghanistan from the Chicago Sun Times, The Washington Post, Washington Times, Associated Press, the Wall Street Journal and Scripps-Howard Newspapers during his visit He was interviewed on National Public Radio’s "All Things Considered", International News Service's "Focus on Issues", and appeared on Fairfax Public Television's "Ariana Afghanistan".
     At a luncheon for Congressional Aides, he delivered the message that peace in the region can only be attained by continuing support for the Afghan Resistance. "The Mujahideen need time to improve their performance on the battlefield. This is necessary before any political initiations are launched. Once we achieve some victories, prospects for a political solution will be brighter."
     Recent negotiations between US Secretary of State Baker and Edward Schevardnadze have resulted in a flawed agreement tentatively allowing Najib to remain in Kabul, while plans are made for a transfer of power to an
 interim government. The plan also calls for a cessation of aid on both sides in the interim period of time. The Committee for a Free Afghanistan has been critical of the "negative symmetry" concept since it does not account for the estimated 4.5 billion in military aid given to Kabul since the Soviet withdrawal.
     Many previous supporters of the Afghan Mujahideen in die US House of Representatives have waffled in favor of the "negative symmetry" concept. This is partially because they naively feel that Kabul must eventually capitulate in favor of the Mujahideen, since Soviet arms are its only means of survival.
     As Mohammed Es’Haq continuously reiterated to reporters during his interviews, "Negative symmetry will hurt the Resistance effort because the Soviet Union has in die past year given 4.5 billion to the regime of the PDPA, while the arms pipeline to the Mujahideen was totally shutdown. It gave the communists the upper hand in the battle field, the battle for Jalalabad was a good example of that, and has made the Soviet Union less flexible towards a political solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan. This can only prolong the war.”
     When the Soviets withdrew one year ago, reporters from every major news agency in the United States raced to Kabul to cover the historic Occasion. This was natural since comfortable lodgings were made available, fax machines and telephones were on hand to meet deadlines, and transportation to outlying areas was easily accessible. Unfortunately, few journalists ventured inside Afghanistan" to speak with Afghan commanders about conditions. Thus the propaganda campaign initiated by the regime in Kabul, one which has portrayed the Afghan resistance as aggressors that care little about civilian deaths, has been very easy to implement.
     Although support among certain sectors to continue arming the Mujahideen has waffled, Es'Haq was very optimistic about the future. "Even if the aid is shut off, we will continue our struggle. We know we will win and the regime of the PDPA will be eventually overthrown, because we have the support of the people. This is the most important thing. But it will be sad if aid is suspended in a flawed dea
Turn to pagpe ( 6)
f February 23,1990  ^
       lriAw
  Area/Tem. in C°    H     L
  Kabul              10   -3
  North Salang       6   —11
   Jabulseraj
 13 3
  Chekhcharan         3  -13
  Shebirghan          3  1
  Mazar-i-Sharif
  Kunduz
  Lashkargah
  Farah
  Zaranj
  Kandahar
  Jalalabad
  Faizabad
 15 3
 7   4
 17 TO 15 7 13 3 17 6 19 7 10 3
         
         
111  flf 
         
         
                                         2{eCp us puBtish
                                         AjgtikHe'ios!
                                      PCeast send your donations to the fottozving account number:
                                         Account 735-37 3iaBib ‘BanfiLtd. ‘Tehkcd'Bata, Peshawar Pakistan
Vol 6, No 6                                              March 15,1990
Hundreds dead in power struggle between
     The coup of March 6th organized by the Khalq faction against Najib failed. Both sides suffered heavy casualties in the fighting for power.
     The trial of 124 Khalqi officers involved in a previous coop attempt might have triggered the uprising.
     The coup was led by ^General SHah Nawaz Tani, the defence minister of the Kabul regime, a politburo member of the ruling party and the leader of the Khalq faction of the PDPA.
     General Tani was supported by some units of the army and air force. The presidential palace was bombed by rebel aircraft and fighting for control of the ministry of defence and Bagram air base in the first day of the coup was reported.
     Bagram air base, SO kilometers North of Kabul, came under the control of Tani's men at the start of the coup and it was used to bomb military tar-~ gets in Kabul. Both sides made use of aircraft, artillery, tank and rockets against each other.
     The news of the coup was disclosed by the Soviet foreign office spokesman soon after fighting started. Immediately after that radio Kabul cut its normal programmes and reported that a coup attempt had taken place. The radio accused Tani and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar of being behind the coup. -
     Najib was quick in appointing Mohammad Aslam Watanjar as defence minister and Neyaz Mohammad Pakteen the minister of Interior. These two belongs to the Khalq faction and by their appointment Najib wanted to tell to Khalqis that the coup was the work of a small group and all Khalqi leaders were not involved in it Najib's accusation of Hikmatyar's involvement was designed to frighten the party men so that they should fight against the rebel force and to show the rest of the world that the coup attempt was supported from outside.
     The Mujahideen reported heavy fighting around the Ministry of
 Defence in Darulaman. Huge explosions also took place in Bagram and the base was bombed by six planes coming; from the North.
     The Mujahideen reported firing of SCUD missiles from Mazar in the direction of Kabul, possibly by Najib's supporters.
     Immediately after the coup had started, Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb Islami, expressed his party's support for General Tani. He said the fall of Najib will pave the road for the establishment of an Islamic government
     Hikmatyar has been talking about a coup by the army for sometime. In the summer of last year he even discussed the idea with the AIG but other parties rejected cooperation with one faction
 of the PDPA against another. The Afghan News Agency (ANA), created by Hezb a few days before the coup, claimed to be in contact with the rebels against Najib and give exaggerated news about the achievements of Tani's forces. It also reported the fall of Parwan, Kunduz and Zabul provinces and the surrender of Herat division to the Mujahideen. This all proved to be untrue.
    Hezb Islami even claimed its Mujahideen were in control of Bagram and Kabul airport and most of the Mujahideen around Kabul were supporting the coup.
    The AIG refused to support Tani on the grounds that both Najib and Tani were communists and it (fid not take sides with any of the two factions.
     Prof. Rabbani who was in Iran at the time of the coup told the BBC that he supported the AIG position of not supporting any faction. Later he told MIDIA that political support for one faction of the communist party by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) was a mistake and would have dangerous consequences.
     The spokesman of the nine-party alliance based in Tehran also rejected cooperation with the regime.
     The coup caused problems for the civilian population .in Kabul. Residential areas were hit by bombs and shells of both factions and a large number of people were killed or wounded. Najib told reporters that less than 100 civilians were killed and about 200 woe wounded but observers think that the casualties woe much higher. The coup took place in winter and a large number of people were forced, to leave their houses for safe areas with out food and warm clothes. Some reached the liberated areas outside the city.
     So far the regime has not disclose< casualties among the military personnel which are thought to be very high At least one pro-Najib general is reported dead. Two planes were also shot down but it was not clear to which faction they belonged. TASS has reported from Kabul that at least 500 of Tani's men have either been killed, woundec or captured by Najib forces.
     The Soviet Union did not openly favour any side in the conflict but it is certain that it was pleased to see Najib successful. When Kabul airport was opened after the coup, some Soviet transport planes landed bringing supplies as a sign of good will for the victorious Najib.
     Preliminary reports of die Mujahideen say that Soviet fighters were sent to bomb Bagram air base but this has not yet been confirmed.
     Najib accuse Pakistan of supporting the coup. The Pakistan government
Turn to page ( 2)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
Power struggle
    Parwan province
     The Mujahideen belonging to the Supervisory Council of Jami'at blocked the Salang highway for one week, beginning from February 27 and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
     Attacks on the enemy posts and convoys were launched inside the Salang valley and on the Jabulseraj-Charikar section of the Salang road. Qala-i-Surkh garrison, at the mouth of the Salang valley, was attacked with heavy weapons.
     In the first five days of fighting a total of 38 trucks and six tanks were destroyed, two trucks and two oil tankers were captured. 15 of the trucks were destroyed in Salang, five in Jabulseraj and the rest between Matack bridge and Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province.
     The enemy casualties have been very high but could not be estimated immediately.
     Twenty civilians were killed by the enemy during indiscriminate firing and 50 were injured in various parts of Shamali. A SCUD missile killed three civilians and wounded two in Gulbahar on March 3. Two, Mujahideen were also killed,
  Kandahar province
     Two officers and four soldiers defected to the Mujahideen on March 7th in Speen Boldak district, bringing with diem one tank, four machine-guns, one rocket launcher and one pistol.
     One ranking regime officer and K) soldiers were killed and 13 were wounded when the Mujahideen with heavy weapons, under the command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked their positions in the divisional headquarters and Kandahar prison on March 11. Some buildings were set on fire.
     One Mujahid was injured in a wane explosion.
   Ghore province
   Fifty soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Taiwara district on March 11. They brought with them one mortar, one 14.6 mm machine-gun, four rockets launchers and 50 guns.
   Herat province
   The Herat-Islam Qala road has been blocked for 15 days, Ismael Khan reported. As a result of the fighting 12 enemy soldiers including a ranking officer of the enemy have been killed and two trucks have been destroyed.
   Kunduz province
    After the abortive coup of Shah Nawaz Tani purges of Khalqi military officers in Kunduz by Najib have been reported.
    Four brigadiers and 14 other officers were arrest in Kunduz in connection with the coup. Some of captured officers are:
    1-     Brigadier Azad Khan, deputy commander of 54th division
    2-     Brigadier Abdullah, political chief of of 54th division
    3-     Brigadier Masood, commander-of47 battalion
    Kabul province
    The Kabul regime has announced the death of General Sharif, the deputy commander of Kabul garrison. He was killed in the failed coup attempt against Najib.
    According to Radio. Kabul, General Abdul Hakim, a pilot of the regime air force was buried with full military honor in Kabul. He was killed in action against the Resistance. The radio did not say when, where and how he Whs killed.
From page (1)
 rejecting the allegation said it was the internal problems of the regime. The Pakistan foreign office spokesman said the incident showed that the Najihullah regime is not acceptable to Afghans.
     Three planes with forty people, including relatives of Tani, reached Pakistan but there were conflicting reports about Tani's whereabout
     A recorded message of Tani was circulated in Peshawar. He had asked his party members to continue their straggle against Najib. Some Pakistani papers reported that he was in Pakistan but the report could not be confirmed.
     Najib had the advantage of controlling the radio station during the coup. He used to assure his supporters that the situation was under control. His quick action in appointing Khalqis ministers also helped him.
     The Kabul regime announced the expulsion of the following five people from the Defence Council of the regime because of their involvement in the coup:
     1- Shah Nawaz Tani
     2- Naik Mohammad Mohmand
     3- Meer Sahib Karwal
     4- General Nazar Mohammad
     5- General Abdul Qadir
     Likewise, Sayed Mohammad
 Gulabzoy, Saleh Mohammad Zeray and Dastagir Panjshiri were relieved of their party positions.
     General Tani was a politburo member of the ruling party. He has been educated in the Soviet Union. He was promoted to the rank of a Genial because of his participation in various battles against the Mujahideen. He gained much publicity in the world press when he successfully cleared the way to Khost in 1988. He was the leader of the Khalq faction of the PDPA which is more hard-line then the Parcham faction, headed by Najibullah.
     Najib has announced the formation of a tribunal to try officers involved in the coup. The coup has weakened Najibullah and narrowed his power base. Najib has to spend a lot time dealing with the problems arising from the coup especially removing the Khalqi officers from important posi tions in the army arid air force.
     No major defection of the regime troops to the Mujahideen have been reported. The time of military encounters between the two factions was brief giving no chance to the Mujahideen to ex ploit it Tani has vowed to continue to struggle against Najib and Hikmatyar supports his efforts.
AFG-HANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ®
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Dr. Mohammad Sadiq
    Dr. Abdur Razaq, how known as Dr. Sadiq, was bom 35 years ago in Chouki District, located in Kunar Province. He came from religious family who encouraged him to pursue school education. His father died when he was eleven years old. Razaq went to high school in Chouki district and achieved very good grades. He was the head of the Student Islamic Movement at high school.
    He was in class four of the Faculty of Health at Kabul University at the time of the Communist Coup of 1978. This prompted him to leave university and take up refugee status in Pakistan.
    Dr. Sadiq later returned to Afghanistan and started participating in anti-communist activities in his native province of Kunar. In 1981 he was injured while fighting against the Communist Army. A short while later he became the Deputy Commander of a Mujahideen unit based in Kunar, which was followed . by him becoming their
Commander.
    Dr. Sadiq lost two brothers respectively in 1983 and 1984 who both died while fighting the Communists.
    In heavy fighting in the lower valley of Kunar, Dr. Sadiq led his men to inflict . heavy losses upon the Communists which involved the destruction of a large number of tanks and the shooting down of some military airplanes. His men contributed significantly in the liberation of Kunar Province which was finally achieved in 1988.
    After the liberation of Kunar Province, Dr. Sadiq led his men in fighting against Jalalabad and fought in the Basoud area in Ningarhar Province.
    Dr. Sadiq is respected for his honesty and courage. He has good party relations amongst various factions of the Majahideen.
    He is married and his family lives in a refugee camp in Pakistan.


Commander Atiyatullah
     Commander           .   Makhdoom
 Atiyatullah s/o Mawlavi Sayyed Tajuddin, 29, was born in the village of Deh Maidan of Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab. His family were the first refugees to cross the Amu river from Bukhara in central Asia when the area came under Russian control.
     "He always reminded us about the plight of the people of Tajikistan who were forced out of their land by the Red Army," said his representative in Peshawar.
     Some of Atiyatullah's group commanders are sons of those refugees belonging to Bukhara and Samarqand.
     Atiyatullah learned the first lessons of Islam from his father and then lie joined Madrasa-e-Abumuslim Khurasani in Faryab city. When the communists took power in Kabul, he contacted the Mujahideen. *
     In 1981, after completing his school, Atiyatullah took arms and joined Jami'at Island Mujahideen under Sayyed Hamid Agha. For about three years he worked with commander Hamid as a Mujahid, group commander and deputy commander.
     In 1984, when Commander Sayyed Hamid was martyred, Atiyatullah was elected by the Mujahideen as the commander of the urban Mujahideen in the suburbs of
 Maimana.
     Atiyatullah's organizational work in the city became more and more effective. He established his base around the city of Faryab. He divided his grup into smaller units to carry out small raids against enemy positions.
     Commander Atiyatullah fought a major war in 1988 against the communist forces. In the operation five thousand government militiamen belonging to Abdur Rashid Dostam and Gelam Jam participatecL Atiyatullah along with other groups of Mujahideen fought for three days. The Mujahideen killed or woundedS 500 enemy soldiers.
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
                     ** J
 A fox is in trouble because of his own pelt.
 Meaning: A person's own talents or possessions can involve him in trouble, thus becoming his worst enemy.
Two watermelons can't be held in one hand.
Meaning: If you have too many preoccupations, you will succeed at non of them.
                                                                                                               y^y
                                                                                                           ■Jj&jul jXf
A new servant can catch arunning deer.
Meaning: A person who is new at a job is overly energetic in an attempt to make a good impression.
                                                                                                  0*^ *3 (J* xjl.
Even a straw is clutched at when drowning in water.
Meaning: A drowning man will catch at a straw.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
' ■ ■ • ilf i- •.r |p| i
                                                                                               H [K? A \ $ L i i i V t \
                                                                                                i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ■£*&coio&^

  Editorial
                                                            must oppose both communist factions
    Although Najib won the latest round in the power straggle within the PDPA, the coup weakened his grip on power and further narrowed the power base of the ruling party.
    The coup of March 6 was the consquence of a chronic power struggle between the two factions of the PDPA—Khalq and Parcham. The Regime's inabil-tiy to win the war exceibated the internal conflict which evolved into a bloody encounted between the two factions leaving hundreds of death from both sides.
    The incident showed that the claim by the Soviet Union that the ruling communist party was more united than ever was a propaganda slogan to mislead world public opnion.
    Najib survived the coup but his problems are not yet over. The Khalq faction has a strong influence inside the puppet army. It will be impossible for Najib to purge the army and airforce in such a way as to change the balance of power in his favor.
    Najib has been trying to cover the rift in the ruling party by saying that the coup attempt was the work of a few indviduals. But this argument is not convincing because at least five poliburo members were involved in the attemp.
    An interesting develpment in connection with the coup was Hezb Island's (Hikmatyar) open support of the bid by the Khalqis to overthrow Najib. Hezb asked his Mujahideen to support General Tani, the coup leader.
    Hezb has been talking about the coup for some time, especially after the frontal attack to capture Jalalabad failed.
    Hikmatyar's political support for Tani raises many questions about the way things would have developed if the coup had. succeeded and possible future developments now that the coup has failed.
    If the coup had been successful, Khalqi officers would have not handed over power to Hezb to allow it to form 'one hundred percent purely Islamic government'. The only solution would have been the formation of a coalition government by the Khalqis and Hezb. If such a thing had happened, the National Reconciliation announced by the regime would have been applied in a different form and the Khalq faction would have claimed the honor of saving Afghanistan from the tyranny of Najib.
    This would have given the Khalq party recognition and status and would have made it part of the future political system. This development might have been supported by Moscow because it would have guaranteed the saftety of communist individuals and the survival of the communist system, perhaps under a different name.
    Now that the coup has failed other developments are likely to take place. Khalqis may continue to keep thjfir alliance with Hezb and cooperate with it in fighting against Najib. Defection of pro-Khalqis might strenghten Hezb’s position in some parts of Afghanistan, but because of the Khalqis' notorious past it would be difficult for the people to make coalitions between the hardliners of the two opposing camps. The problem of the opposition of the rest of the Mujahideen parties to the presence of Khalqis in the Mujahideen side will always be a disadventage to them.
    Jami'at support the AIG stand of not supporting any faction erf the PDPA and consider the political support extended by one of the Mujahideen groups to the Khalq faction a fatal mistake.
    It is in the best interests of the Mujahideen to exploit the differences between the two factions to liberate more areas..
    Our nation is fully aware of the atrocities committed by both factions of the communists. Both factions have been tested once and there is no need to test them again.
    An Islamic government, and a government of the people’s choice does not come through cooperation with communists. If Hezb leaves the AIG because of differences on the election issue, how could it justify its cooperation with the people who have earned their fame and name in killing the Mujahideen and in the service of the Soviets?
    It is diffecult to justify this change of direction on ideological grounds. Now the people outside Hezb pose the question about the Hezb Alliance with die Khalqis. Very soon the Hezb leadership will be questioned by its ordinary members because they joined with this party to fight aginst communists.
From page (6)
 high-jacking.
     The arrested high-jacker's weapons were not found by the authorities due to their imaginative concealment. These weapons were a potential risk for them, for if they were found to have concealed weapons, it would firmly implicate them in the plot It became imperative for them to rid themselves of the weapons. Habbeebullah and his male co-high-jacker after a period of tipie in captivity gave their guns to a prisoner who was about to be released to take it out of the prison. Unfortunately, Habbeebullah's trustee betrayed him to the authorities, which resulted in firm evidence convicting the three captives of planning a high-jacking. Each was then given a 15 year jail term. The female high jacker was fortunate to be re leased very early because her family had high connections with the Communist government.
     Habbeebullah was to remain m prison for five and a half years until a prisoner exchange was organized During Habbeebullah's time in prison he was tortured to such a degree that he presently suffers from mental disorders which make it difficult for him to con centrate upon a task for a long period of time. His fellow high-jacker died in jail after developing kidney problems brought on by his captivity.
     In 1985, Mujahideen commanders and local elders holding two Russian soldiers captive arranged a prisoner exchange where the two Russians would be exchanged for five Mujahideen captives, among them Habbeebullah. This exchanged proceeded anc Habbeebullah was released from captivity and returned to Peshawar.
     The family of Farooque has suffered tremendous losses because of the continuing war in Afghanistan
 /
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
PDPA Factions
     The Peoples' Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) was formed in 1965 under the chairmanship of Noor Mohammad Taraki. The party wanted to bring to Afghanistan a Russian-style revolution.
     After a while the party split into two factions bearing the same name, one headed by Taraki and other by Babrak Karmal.
     The Taraki faction became known as Khalq because it published a paper by the name of Khalq (people) and Babrak's faction was called Parcham because the party published a paper called Parcham (flag).
     The Khalq party remained united under the leadership of Taraki. Hafizullah Amin became the second man of the party.
     The Parcham spilt once more. The new group was called Setam-i-Milli (National Depression party) which was headed by Mohammad Tahir Badakhshi. This splinter group claimed to fight for- the right of non-Pushtoon nationalities.
     Parcham split for the second time giving birth a new party, called Khalq-i-Kargar (worker masses) led by Ghulam DastagirPanjshiri.
     At one stage Khalq and Khalq-i-Kargar cooperated with each other, but retained their independent nature.
     Setam-i-Milli also split into two factions, the moderate section under Tahir and the radical group under Bahruddin Bais. The Tahir group cooperated with the communist regime in Kabul, but the Bais group opposed the Taraki regime and launch armed at tacks against it. This group was responsible for killing the American Ambassador to Kabul, Mr. Dubs.
     When Daud took power, the com munists assumed important positions in
 the government. When Daud decided to improve his relations with other neighboring countries tension between him and the communists mounted. The Soviet Union which patronized all communist factions except the Moists forced them to unite their ranks to be able to replace Daud and run the country.
     On April 27, the 'united PDPA' took power in a bloody coup. Taraki became the president and Babrak, vice president of the Peoples' Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
     The honeymoon of the Khalq and Parcham did not last long. Babrak and Najib were sent abroad as ambassadors to Prague and Tehran respectively.
     In the fall of 1979, Taraki was killed by Amin. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan on December 27, 1979, ended Khalqi rule and brought Babrak and Najib back to power under the protection of the Red Army.
     This event annoyed the Khalqis who were in the majority in the army. The Soviet army's presence prevented any open out-break of violence between the two factions but the Soviets failed to unite their ranks.
     Parcham suffered another division when Babrak was replaced by Najib in 1986. Some people supported Babrak and others became loyal to Najib, the new chosen man of Moscow. Finally the Soviets admitting their failure to unite different communist factions, started to deal with each . group separately.
     After the announcement of the multi-party system, different communist factions became active. The present coup of Khalqis against Parchamis is the continuation of old hostalities which will not end with the crush of the coup.
Mujahideen allow private traders to bring goods from Afghanistan
    The Mujahideen will allow private traders to bring goods from Afghanistan to Pakistan except alcohol and drugs.
    The Mujahideen parties and tribal leaders in Pakistan have agreed that goods from Afghanistan can be transported through a secondary route bypassing Jalalabad.
    A Mujahideen leader Younus Khalis has said that the Kabul regime requested the Mujahideen to open the Toorkham trade route but this was rejected because the Mujahideen do not deal with the communists.
    Toorkham is a main trade route which connects Kabul with Peshawar.
    Despite fighting the road was open to trade until the fall of 1988. Since then, the Mujahideen have blocked the road.
    The closure of Toorkham angered tribal leaders in Pakistan because their trade suffered. Russian and other foreign goods transported through the Soviet Union are brought to the tribal areas from Afghanistan. It is a profitable business because the goods entering the tribal area are not taxed.
           economic arrived Kabul m February $7 Cuss aidi ^Stiii with the regime pfii-l rials, AJS;:;f%>rted. One of the areas |they focused their discussion was giv-
wmmmmmmm
[induced famin&BHHHfllM||
Najib and other regime offiriaifc 'Pus j year Sovieti®
game have signed right economic.and |mititary.|^^         • fll
ex of food, fuel oil anti military equip-iment for the regime.     ' 1
111111               • •: ?• •• ' m
P|Gulbuddltt Hdcmatyar, Heztfl [Si leader, payed tributes to Snyed Jamal by calling him martyr \n a gathering organized hr condole with [his family on March;3.
  | 3&yed Jamal ^        to
! death by a Sharia
Ifound guilty in Farkhar massacre case in which several Imixgtam^Jatot led.|
Jamal was killed by 'friends of
  |t!u         ' ;^mmt^pncr
for Afghan refugees in North West Frontier Province shifted from ipde its ■: iiie^
[building in Hayatabad towoslup,West
Bill
Tied number of people dead in Sbviet I Uzbekistan on
I from Moscow.HHHHHHHMI
    Cm.‘i     Ah*.*.1 ■WWWWMMMiMa .SSV
BP*®* were no figures on foe number killed when fighting erupted
regime, Sheer Jan Mazdoor Yar, dks-| between Aryana Afghan Air Line and
"V                              I
lllljillf'                      of
[with Ghulam Ishaq Khan, the presif | §|f 111 Pa®an                  6, They
piscti#d |i'tl]£               ini
Afghanistan. .                 wM
K _______________-____________ r
AfrGHANews Vol 6/ No 6, March 15,1990, page ®
                                                           Umar Jessurun
      The devastating war in Afghanistan has brought upheaval to all families in Afghanistan regardless of their political, religious or social position. There is no Afghan family living any where in the world which has not been affected by the consequences | of the continuing war. Some families have suffered more than others as is the case of Sayed Ahmad Shah's family, whose own sorrows are universally symbolic of all people who are victims of war. In a long conversation he exposed me to die trauma and misfortune that has befallen his family.
      Ahmad Shah was one of eleven children (six brothers and five sisters) bom to Mir Aqa Farooque and his wife. The family resided in a relatively large house in a middle class area of Kabul. Mr. Farooque was a graduate of law from Kabul University and worked in the Government Customs House, which paid him a modest wage, supplemented by the additional income generated from a percentage lake of all goods confiscated and later sold in public auctions. This enabled Mr. Farooque to support his family comfortably, and allowed all family members to pursue a full education. As a result, the four older boys in the family were all graduates from university at the time of the Taraki Communist regime coming to power in 1978.
     One of the special features of Mr. Farooque's home was that it became a center where people would gather and debate issue. These people came from many different backgrounds and represented many schools of thought on issues such as religion, ‘government, power, jehad and revolution. Mr. Farooque and a close network of friends were personally inspired by Sufi concepts. Also group members sought evidence to back up iheir arguments by consulting books in Mr. Farooque's personal library which numbered some two thousand. A common shared belief amongst most members of the group was the need for organized opposition to the policies of the government who were adopting increasingly repressive tactics against all forais of opposition.     *
     The four older sons in >the family while being included in the broader pe-| rimeters of the intellectual group, all
 responded to the regime in their own way through their own network of friends. This included direct action in the form of street protests and publication of anti government material.
      The Taraki and Amin regimes be came paranoid about any form of . dissenting criticism against their policies and ideology. During die years from 1978-1980, tens of thousands of innocent people were arrested by the re gime. The common practice was for KHAD agents to suddenly arrive at the home of a nominated person mid take that person away without any explanation. They wefe then placed in a secret jail Without any trial, beaten, tortured humiliated and in 11,000 cases murdered. This was a time of tremendous fear in the homes of most Afghans.
      Mr: Farooque and his active older sons (Sayed Jamaludin, Sayed Qasem and Sayed Ibraheem) were perceived as threats against the internal security of the state, which led to their arrest by KHAD agents ova- a period of several weeks in 1978. The family members were taken to a secret jail and murdered. No representative of the govern ment had the decency to tell the surviving family members the fate of their father (husband) and brothers (sons).
 It was not until a number of years later that the deaths were confirmed by Russian military authorities during a failed prisoner exchanged. The responsibilities for the family's welfare past onto the fourth brother Sayed Habbeebullah. He became increasingly militant and sought ways to seek the release of his father and brothers who he believed may still be alive. During this period, the fifth brother Sayed Ahmad Shah enrolled in a government military school for six months, where he endeavored to recruit men to the ranks of the Mujahideen. He had recruited six men but one of them was a agent of KHAD who informed the authorities, leading to Shah being given a six month prison term. Shah was placed in a bleak cell. One day he received a surprise visit from his distant relative, Haji Aslam, a tiny hunchback man who stood only one meter tall. Aslam was the keeper of the Holy Shrine, Shah-i-Do-Shamshara, (The King with 2 Swords) which is the site of an early Islamic crusader who was martyred while fighting his enemies with a sword
 in each hand. Aslam who was also KHAD agent with the title of Captain took pity on Shah and made the neces sary arrangements for his immediate release from prison; However, Shah was made to sign a conditional letter stating that he would refrain from all antiregime activity, and that he would actively inform on anybody or group that participated in activities against die government. Therefore his release was conditional upon him acting as a government informer.
     Upon the release of Shah, the fami ly decided to escape from Afghanistan and seek the safety of the refugee haven of Peshawar in Northern Pakistan, where , they could continue their struggles against the regime government in relative safety.
     The hope that the family's father ahd three older brothers may still be alive continued to plague Sayed Habbeebullah. He formulated a plan to high-jack a government passenj plane to bring about his family members release. To enact the plan, he recruited five other people including one female, who travelled to Kabul and purchased domestic air tickets on the same flight They had a pistol hidden in a secret compartment of the sandal of one of the members. However, the man who was the source from which the weapons were purchased turned out to be a government agent, and informed the regime authorities that Habbeebullah was planning a highjack, without implying his own involvement of exchanging weapons for money.
     The authorities being aware of Habbeebullah's intention to high-jack a plane, proceeded to arrest him, the female member, and one other co-conspirator whilst they were seated on the plane waiting for take off. They were imprisoned even though no firm evidence had been gathered to directly ! ink them to the proposal of highjacking a plane. The other conspirators in the plan were not suspected by the authorities mid as a result were not arrested. They aborted their high-jacking plans and proceeded to complete the flight in a normal manner. Later they were to tell Mujahideen authorities the circumstances surrounding'the aborted
Turn to page ( 4 )
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 6, March 15,1990, page ©
  Americans' interest in Afghanistan declines
     The Committee for a Free Afghanistan invited me to go to Washington to talk to the American media and other Organizations and individuals concerned with Afghanistan on the occasion of the first anniversary of the Soviet troops withdrawal on February 15.
     I accepted the invitation after consultation with the Jami'at leader. I felt it was a difficult trip because the popularity of the Afghan Resistance was declining in the US and I thought the questions put to me by the journalists would be difficult to answer. I had learned this from talking to some other friends who had accompanied the AIG official delegations to the US recently.
     Since I am editing AFGHANews, it was a matter of personal interest to me to gO to the US and see by myself the changes in the Americans' way of thinking about Afghanistan. I had made several trips in the past During the early stages of the war the Afghan Resistance was not taken seriously almost everybody predicted its defeat at the hands of the'powerful Red Army’. Helping the Resistance was a waste of money. 1 had also seen the peak of the Resistance's popularity when everybody considered it an honor to have a picture taken standing beside a freedom fighter. It was a good chance to see the new mode.
     After I arrived in Washington, James Baker started his Moscow trip during which he proposed a peace plan which did not interest the Soviet leaders. The withdrawal anniversary and Baker's trip, drew media attention towards our cause and my trip was timed to exploit that development for the benefit, of the Resistance.
     Talking to the press
     I talked to several journalists individually belonging to some major American papers. Some of these people were quite knowledgeable about Afghanistan because they had been writing about it for some years.
     They wanted to know what went wrong with the Mujahideen who could not defeat the Kabul regime? Fortunately during a previous trip in October of 1988, I had talked to the same people and 1 had warned them that the Mujahideen needed time to adjust to the new situation, reorganize themselves and change their tactics.
     They asked many questions about die problems of the interim govern-
 By: Mohammad Es’haq
 ment, infighting between - the Mujahideen, negative symmetry, possible compromise with the Kabul regime etc.
     It was obvious that high expectations from the Mujahideen had dbne its damage, the expectations had not been based on facts but wishful thinking.
  . In the electronic media only the radio was left to the Mujahideen because for the US TV networks, Afghanistan was not so important that it could compete with the hot news from Eastern Europe and riots in Baku and Dushanbe.
     I also met with some journalists and writers who earlier sympathized with the Resistance but find supporting them difficult after the Soviet troops withdrawal. Part of the problem arises from the divisions among the Afghan Resistance parties which demoralized their supporters.
     The Soviet and Kabul regime's activities
     Die Soviet Union is working hard to lobby for its "Afghan peace plans" among the supporters of the Resistance in America.
     The invitation from Congressman Wilson to Moscow is a good example of this effort. Congressman Wilson played an important role in the allocation of funds for the Mujahideen because he is a member of the House Appropriate Committee. When he recently returned from a visit to Moscow at the invitation of the Soviet government he was quoted as saying that the Soviets were in favour of peace in Afghanistan and the Mujahideen should show flexibility.
      I talked to the Stanton Group -a conservative support group- about the situation in Afghanistan. This group support anti-communist Resistance movements all over the world. After I had finished a three member Soviet delegation entered the meeting and one of them who called himself a pro-Gorbachev MP talked to the group about the changes in his country. He encouraged Americans to invest in the private sector in the Soviet Union. He impressed some of his American audience.
     During my press conference, a gentleman asked me some serious ques tions. I asked him to introduce himself. He said he was the press secretary of
 die Soviet embassy in Washington. He asked me what was my main, message tc the Americans? I told him I had come to draw the attention of Americans towards the double-faced foreign policy perused by Gorbachev. In Eastern Europe, he showed tolerance, in Afghanistan he followed the old aggressive policy, minus the presence of uniformed Soviet soldiers. The west should not judge him by his behavior in the Eastern Europe alone they should also pay attention to. the situation in Afghanistan and the negative role that the Soviet Union plays there.
     During my stay in Washington I saw how the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime used the Western media to their benefit. If there is any news on American TV it is the news of the Mujahideen rocket attacks on the cities and the horrible sight of some wounded children. If there is any news about the Mujahideen it is about the arguments between the political leaders over holding elections and the future of the AIG. This gives a bad image to the Resistance.
     The Resistance have always had a problem to keep the world informed about the true situation in Afghanistan. After the Soviet troops withdrawal the need for positive propaganda is vital to keep the sympathy of the world community on our side. When one of the Mujahideen leaders scares journalists by calling them spies, he inflicts heavy damages on the cause.
     Afghan emigres
     Afghan emigres who preferred a comfortable life in the West to fighting the Soviet invaders, have become out spoken recently. They criticize both the: Kabul regime and the Mujahideen parties. To them the Kabul regime is responsible for the disastrous situation in Afghanistan. They also criticize the Mujahideen leaders for creating a division among the Afghan people for their political ends. They accuse both sides of being under the influence of foreigners and call themselves the real Afghan patriots. Because of the lack of progress in the battlefield and disunity among the praties an increasing number of people are listening to them particularly as they speak good English. Their anti Mujahideen propaganda could be more harmful to the cause than the Soviet and regime's propaganda.
Turn to page (8)
                                           AFGHANews Vol 6, No6, March 15,1990, page©
Comment by: Abdul Basir
Jehad is not fratricide
Trip to US
                              From page (7)
     The Iranian daily, the Tehran Times, in its February 20 issue calls the war between the Muajahideen and the communist regime fratricide and proposes a cease-fire.
     Commenting on Shevard Natdze’s 10-point peace plan the paper finds some positive aspects in that proposal. The paper proposes a cease-fire before any political effort has started and says that after the Soviet troops withdrawal, the war in Afghanistan is just fratricide.
     Every body is entitled to express his/her opinion about the issue and can propose ways of ending it, but labeling Jihad as fratricide is an unfair description of the struggle of the Mujahideen against the regime of Najibullah.
     Fratricide is the crime of killing your own brother. Can we apply this to the Jihad of the Mujahideen against the communist regime of Najibullah? The writers of the Tehran times are Muslims and the paper is published by the Islamic republic. By Islamic rules can we call a Godless communist the brother of a faithful Muslim and label the fighting between them fratricide?
     Our neighbors are fully aware of
     Radio Tehran has reported that Dr. Mahmood Habibi, the speaker of the regime’s National Assembly, discussed with Iranian officials the situation in Afghanistan during his visit to Tehran.
     The radio did not say why the high-ranking regime officer was in Tehran. Habibi was there when a delegation of the AIG was visiting Iran to discuss issues concerning elections with the nine-party alliance.
     This is the first time such a high-ranking regime officer has met the Islamic republic. Ban says it supports the Resistance, but the warming of relations between Tehran and Moscow has resulted in closer contacts between die regime and Tehran.
     The resumption of telephone links between Kabul and Tehran is another sign of the growing relations between Iran and the Kabul regime.
     The Tehran Times, an English language daily in an article has asked for a ceasefire between the regime and the
 the nature of the PDPA and its leadership. They know the crimes they have committed before the invasion, during the ten-years of occupation and in the past one year.
     To our Iranian brothers understanding the nature of the PDPA and its leaders should not be difficult because the Todeh party is a sister organization to the PDPA The two parties share the same ideology and following the Soviet Union there is close cooperation between the Todeh party and the PDPA. Why this description of the Tehran times is not applied to the Todeh party? Why was the Todeh Out-lawed and its leaders imprisoned?. By comparison the PDPA has committed crimes which the Todeh might not have thought of.
     Even if the PDPA were not a communist party, the war against it could not be called fighting between brothers because of the death and destruction they have caused in Afghanistan.
      I hope the way of thinking of the Tehran Times is not shared by other Iranian brothers especially those in responsible positions of Government.
 Mujahideen and has called the Mujahideen armed struggle against the Kabul regime fratricide.
                                                 KGB involved in Zia killing
    A Soviet secret agent has said that the 1988 plane crash that killed Pakistani leader General Zia-ul-Haq was probably the work of the KGB.
    Victor Sheymov, who broke his silence with a news conference on Friday after 10 years in the United States, said "the components are there" of a KGB operation.
    "Assassinations of that calibre do not crane out of the blue," he said, "die Soviet Union was desperately trying to solve the situation on its Southern border. Zia was not very co-operative with the terms of Soviet demands."
      Victor Sheymov said the thing that made him especially suspicious was the fact that Zia had met with an "high level" Soviet delegaion just before the tragedy.
     Meeting with the officials
     I met also with some State Department and USAID officials. The meeting of this year was different from previous years. Now the officers watch their words in fear of being misquoted. One of the reasons is that most of them are new to the job and do not have personal acquaintance with the members of the Afghan Resistance. In die past, they were looking for new ideas how to give support more effectively.
     I expressed to them my concern about the concessions that Mr. Baker made to the Soviets during his Moscow's visit and . emphasized the need for true consultation with the Resistance so that a Genenva-type deal should not be signed behind the back of the Resistance.
     To summarize, I have witnessed a change of attitude among the Americans. Although they still support the cause they are not emotionally involved with it because of the absence of the Soviet Army from Afghanistan and a decrease of fear for the 'Evil Empire".
     Afghan friends in Congress continue to support the cause but they are not as strong as they were in the past. There will be less pressure on the administration to send effective aid to the Resistance.
     A strong desire to see the end of the war is found there. This desire might force the Bush administration to give more concessions to the Soviet Union unless some progress is made in the battlefield. The Mujahideen leadership and field commanders must take into account these changes and adjust their plan of action accordingly.
                                        9{dp us publish AFQMM&'Ws!
                                     PCease send your donations to the fottowing account number:
        fEMVD Account 9{p. 735-37 OPaBiB ‘Bank.Ltd.
                                        ‘Teheed ‘Baia, ‘Peshawar Pakistan
Regime ranking officer visits Islmic Republic