iN THE NAMEOF ALMIGHTY ALLAH j
AFGHAN^.
 A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I‘AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN A y
    POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN. 1 A
       VOL. III.. NO. 23, 1/12/S987. V
                            THE ENEMY’S POLITICAL AND MILITARY DEFEATS
 At the beginning of the current year the Soviets changed their tactics by intensifying their political and propaganda offensives against the Resistance. They announced a ! cease-fire "which was immediately rejected by the Mujahideen and not observed by the • Soviets and their puppets. National Reconciliation was the name of another political campaign which was launched for the purpose of weakening the position of the Resistance. This also failed because no major fighting front laid down arms, no political party in the Resistance accepted the puppets offer and no considerable number of refugees returned.                      ,
 Attempts to unify the ranks of the puppet party failed. The 2nd conference of the puppet's was a clear witness of there being such a rift inside the puppet party that it led to the purge of the pro-Babrak faction.
 The enemy tried very hard to score a victory in the diplomatic field and aimed at reducing the number of votes cast in favor of the UN resolution calling for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the foreign (Soviet) troops.
                                                      *rs
 The outcome of the General Assembly's voting was disastrous for the Soviets and their puppets because the number of votes in favor of the resolution increased by one compared to last year and reached the record number of 123
 The recent military defeats of the puppet army is very worrying for the Soviets. The Mujahideen’s capture of Keran Garrison and the liberation of Sangcharak District in less than one month are crushing defeats for the puppets. It is not the fall of the garrisons themselves which has made tbe Soviets worried but they are afraid because it has become a new pattern in the war. If this tactic of bringing a large number of forces from different areas and attacking the enemy s isolated garrisons in well-planned surprise attacks is adopted by all the Mujahideen . the Soviets and their puppets will be forced to revise their whole strategy of war. That means bringing more troops, introducing new weapons, changing present military tactics and the total failure of their present political compaign.
 The defection of Najib's brother to the Mujahideen is a source of personal embarrassment far Najib who is trying to give his puppet rule a colour by convening a mock Loya -Jerga in Kabul
 Although the failure of the Soviets in their political and military campaigns against the Resistance is clear, the Soviets are not ready to accept defeat. They wiil continue with their propaganda compaign and military offensive for at least sometime in the future
                            NAJIB’S BROTHER DEFECTED TO THE MUJAHIDEEN
 Mohammad Seddique, the younger brother of Najib, the head of the puppet regime, defected to the Mujahideen in the last week of October. Seddique who was accompanied by his wife and children entered the liberated zone after getting assurance from the Mujahideen for his safety. He wa3 then escorted by the Mujahideen from Jamiat to the Panjshir valley.            ‘
 CKU
O F
                        HFONaK HEUS UOL III, K0.23,           »/»2/l^e?,PflGE  ’
 Mujahideen have given him fulJ freedom either to stay in the liberated areas or to go where ne wanted. So far he has not revealed his future plans
 Mohammad Seddiques defection come at a lime when his brother, Najib is trying to show to the world that his National Reconciliation policy is successful and is trying to give his tyranny and puppet rule a legal cover by convening a so-called Loya Jerga ". Granting asylum for Najib s brother is part of the policy of the Mujahideen and this will cover all those who want to come to the side of the Resistance
 Granting asylum tor Najib's brother must be a clear answer to those allegations that after the Soviet withdrawal there will be a blood bath If such a person as Najib's brother can enjoy the security and freedom of choice provided by the Mujahideen, the other members of the party will be treated similarly if they abandon occupation forces and seek the support of the Resistance
 Mujahideen scored another major victory in Northern Afghanistan Mujahideen under the command of Mohammad Alam, the General Commander of J.I A in Balkh province, captured the Sangcharak Garrison in Javzjan province on November 24
 The attack on the Garrison was launched on November lb. During one week of fighting about 200 of the enemy troops were killed, 21 soldiers were captured and seven tanks and other armoured vehicles were destroyed and one jet bomber was shot down
 Mujahideen captured the following items
 1- 7b®,cn Mountain Howitzer     2      pieces
 2 DShK ........................ 3      Pieces
 3- Light weapons ..........over 100    pieces
 4 Trucks.......................15
 5- Large amount ol ammunitions
                    Nine Mujahideen were martyred and several wounded (the exact number is not
 available).
                    it is reported that the headquarters of the local government was also located within the
                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                             FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                               JAWZJAN PROVINCE
                       SANGCHARAK GARRISON CAPTURED.
HFGHRH H£US VOL, III, HU.23, 1/t2/t9e?,PfiGF 3
 Garrison There were also some units belonging to KHAD and Sarandowy (police), in addition to units from the puppet army, stationed there.
 It should bo added that about 200 Mujahideen from Balkh and Jawzjan provinces had participated in the operation This is the fifth Garrison which has bean captured by the Mujahideen from jamiat in the North in the past year
 Mujahideen in this area have indirect cooperation with the Mujahideen under the control of the Supervisory Council of the North
 8/11/1^37. Mujahideen from Jamiat led by Mohammad Amin Pahlawan conducted a well-planned offensive against the enemy's C-as Refinery System in Shuburghan, the provincial capital of Jawzjan. Using heavy artillery, th6 Mujahideen destroyed the system which latter caught fir e and burnt the adjacent residences of Russian families. A large number of them died as a result More than 15 armoured vehicles and oil-tankers parked on the spot were set on fire
                                             NAM6RAHAR PROVINCE
 11 /11 /1987 A number of Mujahideen units jointly launched an operation against some enemy posts in Gooshta and Aikhy areas By using U)7mm ground-to-ground rockets and other heavy weapons, Mujahideen were able to destroy 4 DRA posts in 8 hours of
 severe fighting. '
 13/11/1987: An armoured tank was also set on fire in Kama District Five militias were killed and a 76mm Canon was destroyed in a fighting in which the militias were attempting to proven! the Mujahideen from blocking a DRA supply route in the area The report does not give any number for the casualties of the Mujahideen
 7/11/1987; One DShk , one AK-47 and a military vehicle were captured when Mujahideen attacked the gist DRA Battalion and its adjacent posts in Gnani Khil area of Achin district. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties
 1/11/1987: Mujahideen under the command of Habiburahman attacked enemy posts surrounding Achin district As a result, the Mujahideen were able to destroy some government establishments in addition to killing or wounding 13 soldiers aad militias in the posts. Three Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
                                             LAGHMAN PROVINCE
 9/11/1987 Mujahideen launched an operation against four DRA posts situated in Surkhakan district. Two of the posts were destroyed and 4 military vehicles set on fire.
 An unidentified number of Communists were killed in the operation. The report does not mention the number of casualties on the side of the Resistance
                                              PAKT1A PROVINCE
 7/11/1987: Twenty five enemy soldiers were killed and 3 armoured vehicles were destroyed during an attack conducted by the Mujahideen under the command of Amir Khan in Mirzaka area t half-way between Gardez and Jaji)
 A number of residential places of the Communists and other DRA officials were damaged during the shelling
 A Mujahid lost his leg in a mine explosion planted by the enemy.
fiFOHfttf NEWS VOL. Ml, HO.23,     1/12/1907,PAGE 4
                                                PERWAN PROVINCE
 23/JO/1987 In an operation Mujahideen surrounded enemy posts in Arghan Khil area of Bag ram District After the fighting vhich started at 530 pm and continued till 10:30 a m of the next day. Mujahideen were able to capture the posts and seize a large amount of staff from them Fourteen enemy soldiers carrying AK-47s were taken as prisoners and three others were killed. The posts vere situated about one Kilometer from the Bagram Airfield.
 25-1/1987 Mujahideen attacked Bagram 's District headquarters as a result of vhich 3 officials were killed Latter on, Russians bombed the area in retaliation but no detail of
 losses have been given in the report
                                                                                                                   I
                                               KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 13/11/1987: Six DRA soldiers vere killed and 3 others vere taken prisoners when the * Mujahideen commanded by Mullah Naqib attacked an enemy post in Bulbakan area
 situated about 10 kilometers south of Kandahar city
 14/11/1987. In another operation on Buibakan post vhich lasted for 8 hours, an enemy arms depot was set on fire as a result of Mujahideen shelling Five soldiers vere lulled also
 Three Mujahideen vere martyred in the operation
                                          WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE?
 Mawiavi Khalis, the Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance met Mr. Reagan as the head of a five member delegation of the Mujahideen in the White House This vas the second such meeting with a high-ranking Mujahideen delegation. The first delegation vas led
 by prof. Rabbani in 1986
                   The reaction of some parties within the Alliance has been different towards the two
 meetings.
 Whan prof Rabbaai led the Alliance delegation in an official visit to the US, two parties, Jttehad of Prof Sayyaf and Hezb of Mr Hekmatyar denounced the visit. They argued that the visit discredited the Resistance which is an Islamic movement Press Conferences were held, mass meetings were convened, articles and even books were written to prove their point These parties even based their arguments on verses from the Holy Quran and gave it a pure religious colour
 As a result of these actions tension amongst the Resistance increased and a lot of energy and time were wasted and the Alliance even faced the danger of disintegration
 About the second trip they have kept quiet They have not denounced it in big meetings or small ones. They have not written anything against it so far.
 What is the difference?
 Is there any change in Mr. Reagan himself or the nature of his administration?
 What are the changes in the Resistance side which has made the situation different? The only change we see is the leadership of the delegation
 jami at has supported and will support these types of visits by the leaders of the Mujahideen and consider them as essential parts of our political struggle
 We also expect from our colleagues to base their judgments about events on long-term
flFGHfii'l NEWS VOL .HI. HO.23, 1/l2/tW,PRGE 5
 national interest not on short-term party rivalries which they dc most rated in connection to the first official visit of the Mujahideen delegation to the U S A.
                                         FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                                   (PART M)
                                              By Monammad Es’haq
                                        A VISIT TO THE KESHM VALLEY
 1 was advised by Commander Masood to visit Keshm and see the situation by myself. , From Ferkhar to Keshm there arc* many ways but I chose Mashlan Pass
 The side valley which I entered was called Neem Pasta It was a fertile valley. At noon we arrived at the first village, Mirkan, and were received by a respectable old man. He -was the village representative in the people’s council which is formed by the Mujahideen in Keshm to give participation to the local people in the affairs of Jehad.
 My first aim was to meat Aryan poor Lite leader of the Mujahideen in this valley. Aryan poor who was a teacher was jailed by the Communist regime in 1978 but released latter. He was elected by the Mujahideen of Keshm as their leader Under his leadership a good military and civilian administration was sot up which functions smoothly.
 Aryan poor is a staunch defender of unity among the Mujahideen and active member of the Supervisory Council of the North He played a key role in the attack against Keran Garrison                                             -
 When I arrived et the first Mujahideer center (Qarargah), J was told that Aryanpoor had gone to another valley, so 1 decided to continue my journey with other members of
 his administration.
 Keshm is a district of Badakhsban province It is composed of two major valleys and some side valleys jamiai controls the two major valleys and most of the side valleys The valleys are very 'ertile . The people earn their living through farming
                                                   •
 The Soviets and their puppets have a base in the lower part of Keshm but control few villages The Kuaduz-faizabad road passes through the lower part of the valley, The upper partof tbe valley is mountainous but the lower part flat
 Almost all the pre-war populations are still living in Keshm. Keshm has seen some offensives but has not been affected verv much by the war
 An important feature of this valley is the large cumber of schools the Mujahideen have opened there. One can ses groups of children going to school in the morning and coming back at noon, i visited a targe number of boys schools and one girl school. Students were attentive and tbe teacher* interested in their jobs. Besides ordinary schools I also visited some religious schools (Madrasas). Medical facilities are limited. The Mujahideen have paramedics and nurses but not proper doctors The need for doctors is seriously felt.
 The shops m the villages are selling essential commodities No shortages of food was witnessed but the prices were very iufjrt I did not witness any fighting in Keshm but passed through a dozen graveyards where tens of martyred were buried. You could recognize a martyrs grave b> the flags hoisted by his relatives on the grave. Mujahideen from Keshm are getting their war espcrience in common attacks against the enemy garrisons,
 I witnessed a close cooperation between the local people and the Mujahideen. Ulema
r
I
RFGHfiH
NEUS UOL.Il!,
KO.23,   1/12/19®?,Ffi« ft
 (religious scholars) support the Mujahideen and the elders are consulted through the people s committee,
 Aryan poor was 'sell respected by the people and many people to Thom I talked admired him for his simplicity, hard work and honesty
 From Keshin main valley 5 vent to Teshkan a valley parallel to the main valley . There I met Sayed Mubyuddin (he leader of the Mujahideen in Teshkan. He is an old man who once was an MP tn the Afghanistan National Assembly He was a good lighter in the first two years against the Communist regime but latter due to local problems he just fought a defensive war fie is an admirer of Masood and is trying to improve his fighting abilities
 The people in Teshkan were poor Farming land is limited There is a relatively good * hospital in this valley where some French volunteer doctors have been working for-some years 1 also visited some Madrasas in Teshkan
 The people in Keshm are pro-Mujahideen Ulema (religious scholars) are supporting the Jshac! There are enough young cadres to take the responsibility of administrations! and educational works The future of this area is promising because of its land, people
 and leadership of the Resistance .
                              CONFERENCE TO CELEBRATE RECENT VICTORIES
 The victory of the Mujahideen in capturing the fieran Garrison was celebrated in a lofty conference in Peshawar on November 19
 In the Conference, which was organized by J.I.A a large number of Mujahideen, refugees including those wounded and disabled by Russian atrocities students of various schools and Muurasas and foreign and Afghan journalists took part.
 The Conference begun with the recitation of few verses from the Holy Quran at about 9:15 a.is. Ustad Shadab was the first r-peaker. He was followed by Baud Mir (a member of januats office in France), Mohammad Yunus t'Mnooni (Representative of the Supervisory Council of the North), Sultan Mohammad Awrang (Representative of Ksshra front). Dr Abdul Hay (President of j.l As Education Committee) and Qari Hayatuilah (Vice-President of j l.A s Refugee Committee)
                                                       3
 At the end of the conference profRabbam gave a long speech. He congratulated all the Mujahideen for their victory in Keraa and prayed for those martyred in the operation. Referring u> an incident during the fighting, he said Russian's moral is so low- that they do not darv ever louse their fighter planes against the Mujahideen "
 After talking sooat the military situation in Afghanistan ProfKabbam discussed the political situation and 3aid, the enemy tried very hard to change the vote for the UN Resolution in its favor fi launched an intensive propaganda campaign about its so called National Reconciliation policy' it sent delegations to more than 60 Asian, African and Latin American countries. It introduced amendments u> the Resolution In spite cf all these efforts, however, the number of votes in support of the Afghan Mujahideen did not go down Not only that, but there was even one more vote supporting the Resolution which demanded the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of the foreign (Russian troops) from Afghanistan This is a clear indication of tha fact that the Russians have failed ai the political level as well."
 Earlier Mr Qammi had focused on the activities of SON (Supervisory Council of the North) in his speech Talking about the Council s historical background, he described commander Masood s activities in the Panjshir and the Russian s attempts to destroy the Pamshir Front or at toast to assassinate its leader Failing in those attempts, they decided to keep the Panjshir Mujahideen busy in their valley and prevent the expansion of their order, discipline and well-planned activities in other areas. But they failed in chat plan as well, and the SON was established.
                            RFOKflli tOS UOL.Iil, )K),23,        1/t2/198?,PfiGE ?
    Mr. pan uni described the political and military achievements of the SCN so far and added, "the same way that the SON has captured four major garrisons of the enemy in a year, if each of the seven Mujahideen organizations do the same on the basis of positive competition, at least 28 enemy garrisons will he captured in a year This will totally change the war situation in Afghanistan in favour of ihe Mujahideen "
    The conference, which was held in Samkani next 10 Jamiat s Military Committee, ended at around 130 p m with a prayer by Mafchdoom Shafi (Head of J LA's Judiciary
    Committee).
                       HOW MUJAHIDEEN RECOGNIZED A DEFECTING KGB AGENT
    A KGB agent who had planned to penetrate Radio Liberty was recognized by *
    Mujahideen in Panjshir.
                j According to Mujahideen sources, a 22-year old Ukrainian soldier on the instruction of .
I the KGB defected to the Mujahideen along with his AK 74 in Salang in 1%4 His mission j was to encourage Mujahideen to take him to Pakistan and then seek political asylum in ! West Germany. Once there, ho wouid have tried to work in Radio Liberty in order to collect information about its personnel and operations. According to his own statements, the- agent would have been taken to Russia by Soviet agents at the end of his mission. He looked forward u> marrying bis girlfriend, getting * good job and receiving a handsome amount of money upon his return to Russia
    The agent was called Nooruliah by the Mujahideen during his stay with them According to Lashkar Khan a member of the Prosecution Office of Panjshir Front, Nooruliah confessed that he had worked for a year m Sbceodand Airbase (Western Afghanistan, near Herat) before being assigned lo his mission as a defector In Sheendand he used to intercept the Communication of the Iranian authorities through special equipment He had been trained by KGB specialists not only in the field of spying but also in karate,judi?„aud other menial am According to Lashkar Khan, the agent's hands sacked nails most probably polled out in practice-tortures.
    According to Gui Agha a Panjsliiri Mujahid unlike many other Russian POWs, Nooruliah knew Pushto and Cart. wa* familiar with Afghanistan's geography and had memorized some Suras (Chapters of the Holy Quran) After hjs arrest he confessed that he had taken a six months course about Afghanistan in Termez (a city on the Russian-Afghanistan border) before coming to the country
    Eng Atiqullah. the (hen head of Aunt base of Salang (where Nooruliah first defected),
    explained his defection process as the following
    Nooruliah came from Gahwara San j post, which was built by the Russians in Salang, in a truck, to the Mujahideen base and said he wanted to defect. He said his mother was Tadzhik and his father was Ukrainian His father was a prominent engineer Nooruliah sdocument showed he was a lankist In regard to the cause of his defection,
    No nullah said he had sold some gasoline and the authorities had learned about it He was afraid he would get a severe punishment
    Atiquilah added that the Russians knew well that ihe Mujahideen of Panjshir treat Russian POWs very’ kindly The KGB wanted to misuse this policy Nooruiiah spent eight months in Saiaag and then was sent to Panjshir He stayed another 16 months there along with other Russian POWs. After the discovery of his connection to the KGB, he was imprisoned.
    Abdul Basir a close friend of Commander Masood , was asked how Mujahideen knew Nooruliah was not a genuine defector rather a KGB spy He replied that first of all his behavior had made Mujahideen suspicious of him He was a handsome young man and seemed to be making an ef fort to attract Mujahideen to himself and encourage them to commit immoral acts He slept, for example nude at night He was scolded for this
AFGHAN HE US UOL.Itl,  NO. 23,  VI2/t96?,PRGf
    several limes . He also claimed that he was religious and his mother had taught him verses of the Quran, but he did not show any interest in prayer Then he stole the pistol of Abdul Saboor (a Mujahideen commander)
    After the pistol was found with him in a search. Nooruilah was put in prison In order to learn more about him Kiramuddin, the Mujahideen's Prosecutor, was also "imprisoned", Kiramuddin introduced himself to Noorullah as an officer of the puppet army captured by Mujahideen Slowly Kiramuddin earned "Noorullahs trust and friendship" Finally Noorullah disclosed his true identity to Kiramuddin and encouraged him to escape to the nearby Russian garrison He even promised Kiramuddin could marry his sister who was a beautiful movie star . Thus, his true identity and his mission was discovered.
    According to eyewitnesses after Noorullah found out that he was fooled by Mujahideen ( into giving up his secrets, he seemed extremely sad most of the time. Sometimes he ‘ would draw a cross on his hand in red and write his sister s name, Diana, underneath it.' At other times he would repeat by himself what some KGB officers had told him "your chances of success in this mission is about 40 per cent.' At some stage he tried to escape and reached close to the DRA Garrison in the valley when the Mujahideen chasing him fired on him and he was killed
                                       SUPPORT FOR AFGHANS
    "Ve do everything we can to help the Afghan nation", said Rafsanjani.
    Hashcmt Rafsanjani. the speaker of Iran National Assembly talking to an Italian paper said that the Islamic Republic of Iran would do everything possible to help the Afghan Muslim nation
    He said that the Afghans were oppressed The Soviet Union, a super power, and a puppet of the Marxist regime engaged in a cruel war against the people. They till people and
    destroy villages and towns
    In response to a question that help to Afghans could be in the form of military aid. he said that they knew no limit. "We have supported Afghans and paid the price ", said Rafsanjani The reporter asked what was the price?
    Rafsanjani answered that the Soviets had clearly said' to them if they stopped supporting the Afghan people the Soviets would stop sending arms to Iraq But we will not forget out responsibility towards Afghanistan
                                AFGHAN’S DEMONSTRATION IN DELHI
    More than ona hundred Afghan refugees were arrested by the Indian police when they staged a demonstration to protest against the Soviet occupation of their country at the eve of Soviet Prime Minister's visit to India. They held a meeting on October 22 in front of the UN building and set on fire the Soviet flag. When they tried to march, the Indian police intervened and arrested more than one bundl ed of them
    There is a large Afghan community in India and most Afghans living there are refugees Afghans are angry at the pro-Soviet policy of Rajiv's government in regard
    to the Afghanistan issue.
                                                  ♦ * # # •
    NEITHER AFGHANS SiOR THE PEACE-LOUIHG PEOPLE OF THE UORLB U!LL BE OEOEIUEB BV THE            IHTRODUCTSOM OF THE           SQUIET
                 SP0HSS8EB constitution*. arbed struggle uill cohtihue uhtil
                 RIL THE SOUSE! TROOPS HOME LEFT AFGHAN I STfiH AND THE PEOPLE
                 OF AFGHANS STAR ARE GRANTED THE RIGHT TO OETERBINE THEIR
    FUTURE,
                             IN THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH j
  i
     AFGH ANnews
       A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
           POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                VOL. Ill, NO. 24. 15/12/1987.
AFGHANISTAN IN 1987
    The year 1987 was a special year as far as the Russo-Afghan war is concerned The I   enemy s political initiative strengthened the political dimension of the war The armed [
 |  struggle of the Afghan people against the Soviet invaders continued and the
 I  Mujahideen scored some major victories In the political field, despite the enemy’s.    t
 !  massive propaganda, world public opinion was not deceived The world community          j
    continued to ask the Soviets to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan and let the . people of that country decide their future Soviet leaders seem hesitant to take.proper - j steps to solve the problem of Afghanistan The Afghans do not see a light at the end of j the tunnel                                                                          {
                                               i
                                   ,                                                       i
    MILITARY SITUATION
    Intensive fighting continued along the Eastern, and Southern borders of Afghanistan, i
    Military activities along the Western borders of Afghanistan were considerable too The i   enemy launched attacks to secure its bases in the area and cut the supply routes of the
 S  Mujahideen Mujahideen tried to keep the supply routes open and carry out a war of
    attrition against the enemy bases, The enemy failed to cut the supply routes of the    j
    Mujahideen but due to the nature of land which is flat, the enemy could create some    j
    problems for the security of the routes. By carrying out military operations along the borders, the enemy also wanted to show to the world that the war against it is from the i neighboring country not from within Afghanistan itself.
 ;  Offensives were also launched in other parts of Afghanistan. One such an attack was
 j' launched in Kunduz at the beginning of the year in retaliation to some rocket shots    j
 |  inside the Soviet Union by the Mujahideen As a result, a large number of civilians     j
    were killed by bombs or were massacred by enemy commando units, A similar attack is    i
    continuing at the moment in the same area.
    War activities of the enemy remained confined vithin the borders of Afghanistan j   Refugee camps and villages in Pakistan were bombed by the enemy air force and          \
    artillery and bombs were exploded in the cities, Consequently, a large number of       j
    refugees and their Pakistani hosts lost their lives The main purpose of the enemy      j
 !  from all these overt and covert activities is to create friction between the Pakistan  ;
 !  people and Afghan                               Refugees.                              I
 !                                                                                         j
 ; The morale of the enemy troops is low and desertion of the puppet troops has : j continued The puppet army remains dependent on Soviet support more than the past.
 f                                                                                         '
    The year 1987 was a relative good year for the Mujahideen With the improvement of 1
 | air defense capabilities of the Mujahideen, both the fighters and the civilians are j
    feeling safer As a result of this development the morale of the enemy air force has
    declined and has put a negative effect on the over all fighting abilities of the enemy
    During the current year, the Mujahideen repulsed all the major enemy attacks. A new positive development on the Mujahideen side was the successive victories they scored in the war against the DRA garrisons. Attacks against the enemy garrisons were well planned and the Mujahideen from different provinces participate in them. The idea of launching a co-ordinated attack is being developed
 L_______________________________________________________________________________________
O F
fiFWfltl HtllS UOL.I’i, no.21,   15/I2/I907,P«*  £
    • he Mujahideens morale is high and so is the morale of the civilian, population In short, a was a good year for the Mujahideen in their Jehad against the Soviets and their puppets
    THE POLITICAL SITUATION
    To deceive public opinion outside Afghanistan the Soviets ordered their puppets to announce a cease -fire and talk about what they called National Reconciliation This move caught the outside world by surprise The Mujahideen unanimously rejected both the ceasefire and the so-called National Reconciliation and asked for the unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops To the Mujahideen anything coming from the puppets is resectable because their regime is illegal and represents nobody but the Soviets
    The ceasefire was never observed, by the Mujahideen or by the Soviets and their • puppets The National Reconciliation program also failed to convince a major section of j the Afghan people. The puppet regime failed to get the support of the people and relies very much on Red Army support for its survival There is no evidence that the puppet ; could overcome this difficulty If the Soviet troops leave the regime will collapse and if they remain the regime will remain unpopular as the tool of a foreign power
    The Soviets wanted to use the above two initiatives the ceasefire and National Reconciliation to decrease the political cost of their invasion but (ailed to achieved any result The UN General Assembly passed a resolution, by a record majority of 12 v votes, calling for the withdrawal of foreign (Soviet) troops from Afghanistan
    Proximity talks between Pakistan and the puppet regime in Geneva have continued since !%2 and have brought no result so far Despite the optimism expressed by Mr Cordovez, the two sides are far apart and even si thev agree on The four instruments of the of the agenda there will remain a great number of questions to be solved before it becomes a workable agreement The mam question is the right for self determination of the Afghan people which is mentioned in the resolutions passed by UN but is not worked out in the present Geneva talks
    Under the present format of Genova talks there is no hope of achieving peace in the future
 !
    The human rights situation in 1%" was as bad as in the past Bombs are falling in the villages, prisons arc tilled with innocent people and the Soviets use torture to extract information from the prisoners The Refugee influx to neighboring countries continues and young people are pressganged into the puppet army to fight against their own people There is no freedom of any sort something which could be expected from an occupation force of a communist regime
 if
 | The Sovietization program is continuing Thousands of young people are being sent for indoctrination to the Soviet Union la short no side of Afghan life material or | spiritual, has been safe from the Soviets onslaughts
    There was a partial improvement lor the political image of the resistance by the appointment of Younus Khalis a? the chairman of the Alliance of the seven parties It is a good step forward if followed by practical steps towards coordination and cooperation
    in the military ami political fields
                                     SAFIULLAH'S MURDERERS CAPTURED
    Islamic Republic News Agency IIRNA) reported that the murderers of Safiullah Afzaii.
    an important commander from jacnai Islam; were captured by the security authorities
    of Iran
    Safiullah Afzaii and a number of his friends were ambushed and killed inside Iran on
    7th of July S9S7
sitiiinm hfus ufn..ui
HO. 21
!5/12/190?,PAGE 3
The culprits have confessed that they were hired by KHAR the secret service of the puppet regime, to do the job in return for 40 million P.syals .
The report does not say how many people were arrested in this connection neither does it say whether they were Afghans or Iranians
Safiullah Af'zaii was a young and effective commander of the Mujahideen active around
the city of Herat.
<
                             FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                 HERAT PROVINCE
    22/11/1%?: Mujahideen from Jami al launched a joint attack on military posts under the control of Wakil Shahpoor s militia troops in Khame-e-Ghoorian area Wakil Shahpoor his son and.a number of his militias were killed Mujahideen seized about 30 pieces of light and heavy weapons
    9/11/1%?. Mujahideen attacked the puppet regime s military posts in Zendaj&n District and conquered six of them In the operation, the Mujahideen killed several enemy troops and captured 23 of them They also seized 22 pieces of light and heavy weapons Mujahideen casualties included ♦martyrs and 13 wounded
    23/li/l%7 Mujahideen attacked the puppet troops in Chaka, Quchenak and Farjaie j villages They were able to liberate the villages The number of casualties on both sides ! is not available
j 23/11/1%? Mujahideen attacked a puppet regime s convoy in Babau along the Herat-Islamqala highway A large number (over 200) puppet troops’were killed and wounded | Eight armored vehicles were destroyed.
!
j The report does not mention anything about Mujahideen casualties
                                KUNAR PROVINCE
2Cvll/l%? Mujahideen under the command of Dr Sadiq shot down a Russian helicopter The incident took place in Sarkam District near the puppet regime s Barogai post Since the helicopter fell'down ir the area under the control of the enemy, the number of the enemy $ casualties could not be estimated
J
flrOHAH HF.US U0L.1I1,    HO.2^,   tll&iWtlBSZ.PWS 4
                                              KAPISA PROVINCE
    7/11/1987 More than 10 APCs were destroyed and over 50 enemy soldiers were either killed or mounded in fighting which took plate in Abdullah Burg area situated about 6 Kilometers from Bagram Airbase
    The enemy forces were attacked when they were passing through the area towards the center of Kapisa for the purpose of re-suppiyiog the government posts there The attack was conducted by Commander Shaheen from jami at in Kapisa. and lasted for five days and eventually the enemy was forced back from the area
    Later the enemy air force carried out retaliatory bombardments on the area and as a result 4 Mujahids were killed. The report does not mention civilian casualties e
                                             WARDAK PROVINCE
    9/11/1987. In an operation against a Russian armored column which took place in Tokhmak area (situated about 5 Km from the provincial capital. Maidan. Shahr). Mujahideen captured one 60-PB APC. two military vehicles and two 76mm mountain howitzers. Fifty DR A soldiers were taken prisoners while more than 20 others were killed during the operation
    From the Mujahideen side, three were killed in the fighting
                                             JAUZJAN PROVINCE
    4/11/1987; Mujahideen commanded by Shah Murad, launched an attack on a DR A post located close to the Soviet border in Khamab sub-district As a result the Mujahideen captured 6 AK-4?s and one machinegun Three DRA soldiers were also captured from the post
    The Mujahideen received no casualties.
                          THE 6TB ADVERSARY OF THE SOVIET INVASION
    The Twenty Seventh of Deceit:/ r marks the c .'_ anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, just two days after Christmas ‘.he Soviets invaded a peaceful, non-aligned and neighboring country with more than one hundred thousand troops Soviet forces killed the head of the government which they claim had invited them, and Drought with them a group of communists living in exile tn rule the country as their puppets
    The Sov; ;■!>; expected a. quick victory, hut they were wrong Neither the people of Afghanistan who are famous for their love of freedom, nor the peace-loving people of the world were ready to accept the defeat
    Despite then* limitations, the Afghan people rose against the invaders and the limited war against the Communist regime changed into a national uprising for liberation
                   The peace-loving nations of the world we re also loud and dear in their disapproval of
    the invasion
    The combination of these two elements, made it possible for a small nation to survive against tin? .any of a Super Power famous for its ruthless nature
                                  The cost of this struggle is high for the Afghans So far. about one million Afghans have lost their lives and five million others have become refugees in neighboring countries Two million more live as internal refugees. Seventy five per cent of all i villages and towns have been destroyed. A nation is dying and its beautiful and rich
 '_yylturr_is.liei£Lg. jm U late a by the invaders________________________________
                        --- liMJIMM mu*. *11IL in, IW.21,                                  g
    The enemy has also suffered heavy casualties Many Soviets have lost their lives for a poor cause. The Soviets are paving a high political price for their invasion A country which once boasted to be the defenders of oppressed nations in their struggle for liberation, committed an act of aggression The overwhelming support for the UN resolutions asking for the withdrawal of the Soviets is a clear sign of disapproval for [  the adventurist policies pursued by Moscow The Soviet Union is not considered to be \
 ; the natural ally of the Third World countries The bulk of Third World intellectuals are
 I becoming more critical of Soviet expan tionist politics This »sa high price to be paid for
    a country which wants to spread its inftuence around the globe
                                                                                                                  !
    Despite ail their losses the enemy is not yet ready to stop killing Afghans and burning their villages The Soviet leaders are determined to win the war
    Eight years is a long tune We want peace, we need peace and we dream for peace But * peace will only come if the Soviets leave Afghanistan and its people are given the right- j to determine their future.                                                      |
    Wo hate the war War has killed oor mothers sisters, fathers and brothers War has ’ J burned our villages towns, mosques and holy books. We want the v'ar 10 come to an end to start a new life in a free country where Afghans are their own masters'This is a natural right if every nation to live free and choose the type of government which is
    suitable to them
    The question if. will Gorbachev let that happen'’ Will he withdraw his invading forces from Islamic Afghanistan?The key is in his hand. Only his action will give the answer
    to the above questions.
    If he chooses to win the war and enslave Afghans he must know that he is mistaken Afghans can die but can not accept slavery
                           THIRD WORLD SOCIAL FORCES SUPPORT AFGHAN
                                                  MUJAHIDEEN
                                                                                                                  I
                U I A participates in Latin America Congress)
    Jamiat Islami Afghanistan's Representative in France Mr Hamayoun Tandar. participated in the 9th congress of the Latin American Center of Workers I CL AT) in
    Mai del Plata city of Argentina
        '                                                                           I
    CLAT is the largest Latin American trade union The congress was convened from November 22 to November 29, I9£? About 700 delegations from 20 Latin American countries took part in the congress
    Jami at I slam i Afghanistan was invited to participate in the congress as an observer The invitation and the status granted were the result of JI.A's political activities I including prof Rabbani's trip to Africa in 19S6 and Jamiat'$ contact with the j governments and social forces of Latin American countries
    Prof Burhanoddin Rabbam s message was delivered to the congress Hamayoun Tandar also gave a moving speech at Solidarity Night on November 25 His speech was received with frequent applause and expressions of support
 | J I A s Representative also participated in the fourth conference on Worker s Rights
 j and Human Rights in Mardel Plata University A few major points of his speech at the
 ! conference are noted below
 !
      Man s first basic right is to live In our country. Afghanistan, about one and half million people have been martyred by the invading forces so far Thus, the first principle of human rights has been blatantly violated.
 i
                          fiUJHRU NEUS VOL, ill, HC.24,      15/12/1967,PR06 g
1
    Man's second basic right is to Live peacefully in his homeland In Afghanistan, five million people have been forcefully driven out of their homes. Because of the presence of about 150,000 Red Army Troops, political rights virtually do not exist The prisons are full of innocent people Torture and killing without trial are the routine practice of the puppet regime.
    Destruction of the economy and the means of production by continuous and indiscriminate Russian bombardments does not allow us to talk about the Afghan j people s economic rights
    We believe human rights to be an indivisible whole Implementation of human rights ia a society requires national independence independence from any type of hegemon ism and imperialism, be it Western nr Eastern
    Today Gorbachev is about to sign a disarmament agreement with Reagan Why not’ But it should be remembered that we, the people of the Third World countries, want the termination of the Yalta Treaty (which divides the world into the spheres of influence
    of the two Superpowers)
                                        FROM T.HE DiARY OF JEHAD
                                           (Part IV) by Mohammad Es hact MEETING THE COMMANDER
    I have known Commander Masood for a long lime and had the privilege of working with him inside the country One of the important part of my trip was to see him and know about his views and the situation in the area he works 1 was lucky to meet him and spend more than two weeks in his company watching what he was doing and
    discussing different aspects of the war.
    The rirsi important change I witnessed was in Masood himself 1 remember two years ago when 1 met him, he seemed very depressed Although he is more busy now he is relaxed The Circle of his close associates has enlarged. He works with people coming from different areas not only from the North but from other regions as well I think j this geographical expansion of his organization hits had a good effect on his morale
    During the past few vears Masood has not only tried to teach other Mujahideen effective ways of fignung the enemy but has tried hard to learn what he felt was needed. He ha' made considerable progress in Islamic studies He is being taught by
    competent religious scholars of the area
    Masood is full of humor His company is the company of happy souls He laughs and makes people laugh too, But his great skill js the combination of humor with serious work This makes voriciog with him very pleasant
    iNo doubt be is i genius in military strategy and tactics but his extra-ordinary skill is combining proper military tactics with political moves suitable for the time and the place He has <m-en<liag patience in fighting his way through mountains of political difficulties )o achieve his aim Sometimes he waits for years to do a 10b better rather i than spoil the situation through emotional nod nasty actions This patience has made it i possible for bina to acnievt* the difficult aim of co-ordinated action against enemy ■ targets
    Besides being a military man, he is a charismatic politician To him a co-ordinated attack against a garrison is a combination of both political and military efforts, the political side of which is heavier than the military side The type of struggle he is {. engaged in. has taught bun to be both a general and a politician____________
HFGHrtH (IE US VOL.!!!, HO. 21,         !S/l2/19C77,FflSE f
 r
 r
 i
    Masood has the skill of creating a new cadrs. He teaches his friends by working with them He has made great commanders from ordinary farmers having little reading and writing skills He tries to teach his Muiahideen good manners hv practical examples | Hundreds of his Mujahideen and commanders have abandoned the bad habits of smoking cigarettes.
    1 found him more confident about the Mujahidetns victory than in the past I also ; found bun the most informed person about Soviet and puppet military and political I designs on the country Probably his knowledge about the weakness of the puppet regime and the Soviets has helped ut shaping that confidence in him
    Masood is a strong believer in Islam and tries to shape his iife according to it He is in favor of establishing an Islamic republic He thinks that retreat to the old systems and return of old rulers like Zahir Shah will not solve the problem of Afghanistan which  *
 1 has undergone considerable changes
 i
 i Masood is in favor of continuing the war rather than a half-way solution with a
 I political settlement He believes that as the time passes the Mujahideen will be better
 j organized and stronger
 i                                               i
 ! He is thinking in term of self-sufficiency in economic fields in the liberated areas ;  According to him Muiahideen have to do something lor the benefit of the people The
 j people should not see only bombs and bullets from a Revolution He considers
 ! development projects a useful way of helping the people
 j Masood has many new ideas about how to help the people and effectively conduct the | war Some of these ideas come into conflict with the traditional way of life of the | people His skill is in encouraging the most conservative elements of the society to i support his program in all his impoitant decisions he seeks the consent of
 j commanders. Ulema (religious scholars! and public as a whole.
 | 1 found Masood very concerned about long term Sovielization policies, specially the
 I effect of such programs on the young people He was dismayed by the failure of the
 j international community in providing alternative ways of education for Afghans to
 j oppose the Sovielization policy
 j
    Masood is a staunch defender of unity among the Muiahideen He has spent a lot of time and energy to achieve Ibis-, aim but he has been oniv partially successful He has been able to form iocai aiiiaueeswiih some patties in the area hut regrets the fact that one of the parties has forbidden its commanders from negotiating with him to find a solution in the iocai problems
    Masood is a teacher a popular figure a politician, a skilled negotiator and more importantly a renowned field commander with many victories.
    We are proud of him and pray for his safety and the safety of aii the Mujahideen
 |
                                 AFGHAN DEMONSTRATION IN WASHINGTON
 I
    A large number of .Afghan refugees living in the United States of America, staged a demonstration in front of the Whits House on the 7th of December to draw attention to the continuous occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviet invaders
 j
 • The demonstration took place one day before the Soviet leader arrived in Washington to participate in the super j».<wer summit Demonstrators marched towards the Soviet Embassy and burned the Soviet flag in protest to the war crimes the Soviets are i committing in Afghanistan
 i
 i
 j                       bss-zwokti

                                 WUIlflli lit US                   WQ.21I,    t»71Zftt>')D7,l?W3E  $
                                 AFGHAN NEWS IN THE SERVICE OF JEHAD
   Afghan News the fortnightly bulletin of jamiat Islami Afghanistan completed its third year of publication with the publication of this issue The aim sot for the paper j has been largely achieved
                                                                                                                   1
   We send the paper to mote than 1300 readers m five continents all over the world When we started publishing Afghan News, we were sending the paper only to 150 i
   people The readers of Afghan News are people concerned about the cause of Afghan !
                     Mujahideen The response we are getting from our readers has been very encouraging
                                                                                                                   {
   Afghan News editors try to give an objective account of the military and political situation in Afghanistan As there are many parties we do not have direct access to the <
   news belonging to all of them and difficulties of communication with the fronts means we are not able to cover the war more evenly
   Attempts to improve the reporting of Afghan News will continue
                              HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
i
I
   The United Nation’s General Assembly passed a resolution condemning the violation of human rights in Afghanistan with a majority of 93 countries Twenty eight countries voted against it including India and Algeria
! Dr Flex Ermacora, the UN special reporter on the situation of human rights in ! Afghanistan presented his annual report to the General Assembly based on which the | Resolution was passed. Dr Ermacora visited Kabul for the fist time and had discussions j with the puppet regime s authorities
i
   Dr Ermacora has reported some improvement on the situation of human rights in ; puppet-controlled areas Eased oq the National Reconciliation policy announced by j the puppet regime
j While we do not have .lay doubt about hones; attempt of Dr Ermacora to file a fair j  report on the situation we can say that his difficult mission in an occupied country has
) led him to mistaken conclusions about the improvement of the human rights situation
j m occupied Afghanistan
!
! A guided four of an occupied country does not give the reporter the opportunity to meet the right people Fhe people can not speak freely <n fear of reprisal In the absence of ! such freedoms any lodgement based on what the Soviets and their puppets say will be J misieadin g
! We have not scon any improvement in the human rights situation in occupied I Afghanistan The so-called' National Reconciliation' is not more than a game to deceive j outsiders. The h man rights Situation has deteriorated further by ter roristic acts of the Communists in Pakistan hundreds of Afghan refugees and their Pakistani hosts have either been killed or wounded by bombs dropped by the Russian planes or planted by Russian agents in public places
                          CONDEMNATION OF THE PUPPET SHOW CALLED ’LOYA JIR6A'
j "he follow ina press reie-i-se was >*:edov the puhtinal office at Jaw fat islami Afghanistan on tne eve of tf-8 oofiv-v jr, ,y the so-called love J'r oa in Kabul
                                   Jami at Islami Afghanistan strongly condemns the puppet show staged by the Russians in KaHui. called ‘Toya Jirga” <The show seems to be aimed at a foreign audience Evidence of this fact is invitations extended to politicians from foreign countries and to i foreign journalists to attend the Jirga To the Afghan people the show is completely
 |-------------------iHOmili NeilS Ufil.lil, MO.24,  15/12/1907,PftGK 9---------------
 I
 r-~.....................................................       —      —.........——
    meaningless and not even worth watching it.
    The recent voting at the UN General Assembly shows that the world community has also seen through the Russian plots and does not take such shows seriously To those who still might be susceptible to the Russian political maneuvers we point out the following
    1 It is an established fact that more Ilian f>3% of Afghanistan is free from Russian domination Even if there had been free elections for the Jirga it would represent less than 13% of the country
    t Traditionally the members of Loya jirgas are not elected in general and free elections They are rather selected from among those in positions of power in their communities In the occupied areas the Red Army troops are the source of power and j have placed their puppets in power positions although the majority of the people hate them Thus n is natural that the puppet partv members and supporters become the Loya Jirga members in spite of the fact that they do not represent the views and sentiments of the majority of their constituencies
    3   The Constitution which the Loya Jirga is supposed to approve is full of contradictions and insures the rule of the Russian puppets in Afghanistan
    4 Even if the members of the Loya Jirga were true representatives of Afghan People and the proposed constitution was free of contradictions the presence of the Russian troops would constitute a source of intimidation for the memhersof the Jirga
    Any covenant or document approved under compulsion and force is legally null and void
 ! Thus, the so-called Loya*Jirga is nothing but a puppet show and a political maneuver Undoubtedly the achievements of the Jirga will he announced loud and strong by the ! Russians and their puppets
    None of the above however will bring about substantial changes in'the situation in Afghanistan or bring the problem closer to a solution
 j A genuine solution is only possible by the implementation of the United Nations General Assembly Resolution ie, immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan
                               AFGHANISTAN ANO THE WASHINGTON SUMMIT
 i Before starting the summit some people were thinking of some progress towards finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan The American side was saying that besides arms control regional issues would also be discussed in the summit
    for good reasons the Soviets were not interested in discussing the issue For them the main thing waste get the INF treaty signed The Americans on the other hand wanted to raise the issue but not to make it a a problem on the way of signing the INF treaty.
    After the summit Gorbachev who had achieved what he wanted repeated his previous stands on Afghanistan He called the war in Afghanistan a civil war (war between Afghans only) and conditioned the withdrawal of Soviet troops to what he called ! interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan
    Gorbachev did not seem to regret the role of that country in what he calls it the bleeding wound He seems determined to follow the policy of his predecessors which means continuation of the war