 Vol 7, No 5
 March 1,1991
 UNESCO to repair minarets of Herat
    The United Nations Educational, Scientific, & Cultural            Organization
 (UNESCO) is planning to repair historic monuments in Herat, reports that organization's monthly paper.
    UNESCO sent a survey team to Herat in 1989 to assess their condition. Mr. Belo, an Italian expert, led the delegation to the historic western city.
    ' He found that some of the historic monuments had been destroyed or damaged as a result of the war. The Italian expert added that if attention is not paid, the rest may also be destroyed. He said one of the six minarets of Jam had fallen, and that the rest also face destruction. The mausoleum of Gohar Shad is reported to be partially damaged.
    Belo was sent by UNESCO to Herat in 1975 to supervise the repair work of historical monuments in that city. He trained some local people to repair the monuments, and began the repair work with their help. But .die Soviet invasion of 1979 ended the operation.
      The historical monuments in Herat are the remains of die Timurid Dynasty, who had made the city then-capital. Queen Gohar Shad, wife of Shah Rukh, had commissioned construction of a Musalla ( place for pray ing) and a Madrasa (place for learn ing). These monuments tell the story of the cultural renaissance in Central Asia and North Afghanistan at the end of the 15th century A.D.
    Belo says both the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime give importance to these historical monuments.
    He writes that the first step is to clear the area of mines and assess the cost of repairs.
    In 1985, Jami'at Island had approached UNESCO to ask its support for the repair of the monuments, but the organization did not respond positively.
Zahir Shah on Kandahar
    Najibullah, the head of the Kabul regime, has offered to allow the supporters of Zahir Shah to      open offices in
Kandahar.
    Talking to a gathering in Kandahar city, he said that the former king could play a positive role in bringing' peace. He called the former king "his majesty", the official title used for him when he was in power.
    Najib claimed that he himself was the one who ejected the Soviets from Afghanistan, not the Mujahideen.
    He said he and his party, the former PDPA, have admitted publicly the mistakes they committed after the Saur coup.
    The head of the Kabul regime has donated 10 million Afghanis to be spent for the decoration of Khirqa-i-
 Mubarak in Kandahar, a shrine where a robe of the prophet of Islam ( peace be upon him) is kept.
     Najib complained that while he had built more mosques than any other ruler, he was still called a non-Muslim by the Mujahideen.
     He also said his government spent six million Afghanis to celebrate the first day of the Afghan year in Mazar, which has taken a religious form.
     In order to impress ordinary popple, Najib decorates his speeches to non-party gatherings with verses from the Holy Quran. Except for some mispronunciations, he recites the verses well. The reason for the mispronunciations is that he has learned them recently, after he launched his national reconciliation program. At his age it is difficult for him to learn the correct pronunciation of Arabic words.
Salvation founder joins government of Kabul
                reveals that Asghar Khan, die head of the Salvation Society, is the uncle, of Najib's wife. Family and tribal relations
    Anwar Arghandewal, a founding member of the National Salvation Society, has been appointed deputy prime minister of the Kabul regime.
    The Salvation Society, headed by Dr. Asghar, is based in Kabul and promotes the return of Zahir Shah.
    The organization had claimed that it rejected the invitation of the regime to take part in the government Now the society says Arghandewal did not consulted the organization about his decision to join the regime. Arghandewal had held prominent positions in government during the time of die king.
    The defection dealt a blow to the claims of the Salvation Society that it was independent. An article published by Sorraya Baha, wife of Najib’s brother, who defected to the Mujahideen and now lives with her husband in America,
 have always played an important role in Afghan politics.
     The Kabul regime has benefited a lot from the activities of Asghar Khan's organization. Reports about the human rights situation in Afghanistan, compiled by the UN and other concerned organizations, always refer to the activities of Asghar Khan's group as a sign of improvement in the situation in Kabul.
 /--------------------------------
                                                    Afghan students begin their new school year on
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page ©
 Herat Province
    •      The Mujahideen of Jami'at tilled 16 enemy soldiers and one officer when they attacked positions south of the city of Herat on February 19, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    The Mujahideen destroyed one enemy post in the attack and seized some arms and ammunition. The report was silent about the casualties of' the Mujahideen.
    •      Commander Ismail Khan re-»rted that armed clashes have taken place between militiamen of the Chalq and Parcham factions in Obe District. In the incident 30 militiamen, belonging to both factions, were killed and many were injured. They used ight and heavy weapons against each other.
    The report adds that clashes between the two rival militia groups have extended to Pushton Zarghon District as well.
    •       Two tanks and four trucks, loaded with ammunition, were set on fire, 15 soldiers were killed and eight were injured by the Mujahideen in Gul Khirhia and Jidad area, on Herat-Torghondi road, in a week-long operation which started chi February 7.
    The Mujahideen also captured two officers and four soldiers and seized 18 weapons. The report adds that the Mujahideen closed the road at least for one week.
 Kabul Province
    •     The Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed two electric pylons, two security posts, one tank and one truck on February 18 in Sorobi District. Meanwhile the Mujahideen attacked the regime garrison in Sorobi with heavy weapons, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. No details, were available when this report was filed. No further information was available about enemy casualties.
    The Kabul regime retaliated with
 attacks employing heavy rockets and aerial bombing, but caused no casualties. The operation cut off the supply of electricity to Kabul, which heavily depends on electricity produced in hydroelectric plants in Sorobi.
     Sorobi is about 40 kilometers east of the capital and situated on the Kabul-Jalalabad road.
     • Kabul regime jets heavily bombed the liberated areas north of the capital on February 18, MIDIA'reported. Bombing has caused destruction and casualties but details are not available.
     The report adds that the local people are suffering extreme hardship because the bombing takes place at a time when heavy snow has made life miserable for the ordinary people.
 Baghlan Province
     •     The Mujahideen from Jami'at exchanged heavy weapons fire with regime troops in Baghlan city on January 14. There was no report about the casualties of the enemy. Five Mujahideen sustained injuries.
     •      The Mujahideen attacked the regime’s 20th Division on January 14, killing four servicemen and destroying one artillery piece, three trucks and one anti-aircraft gun. Three civilians were killed by the retaliatory fire of the regime forces.
     •     The Mujahideen destroyed one security post and two tanks, killed eight enemy soldiers and wounded two on January 19 when they attacked the enemy positions close to the city with heavy weapons. Three Mujahideen sustained injuries.
     •     •The Mujahideen fired 107mm ground-to-ground rockets on enemy positions near Baghlan city, killing nine soldiers and wounding 30. Two tanks, one truck and nine buildings of. the enemy were destroyed in the attack.
     •     The Mujahideen killed five soldiers and wounded 20 when they at-
tacked the 20th Division of the regime near Baghlan city on January 23. Several buildings were set on fire.
    •      The Mujahideen killed eight enemy personnel, including one officer, wounded 12 and destroyed one jeep and one truck on January 24:
    The above operations were launched under the command of Mullah Shams, Jami'at commander in the center of Baghlan.
    •      Twelve regime militiamen and KHAD personnel were killed and 22 were wounded in a Clash between the militia and KHAD forces of the puppet regime in Jar-i-Khushk, on Kunduz-Baghlan road, on February 14, MIDIA reported.
    The KHAD men attacked a militia post which was responsible for the security road. The militias were accused of armed robbery and making trouble for the regime patrol units.
    •      The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed four soldiers and wounded seven in Hasantal, an area close to the city of Baghlan, on February 22. They seize* one 82 mm recoilless rifle, one rocket launcher, several Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
    Faryab Province
    The transfer of the governor ol Faryab from his post has caused armed conflict between militias and KHAD armed forces in the province, Hindukush News Agency reported quoting provincial Jami'at chief, Mawlawi Sayyed Yousuf.
    The governor of Faryab , Hashim Paykar, belonged to Goroh-i-Kar, a communist faction within the Kabul regime. When he was replaced by a new governor who belongs to Parcham faction, the former governor revolted against the decision and joined a militia group under the command of Rasool.
    Supporters of the former governor fired a rocket at the helicopter of the new governor, but missed their target The rocket hit a second helicopter, killing one officer and two soldiers.
    Militiamen belonging to Goroh-i Kar shot down a helicopter in Sherin Taqab District, killing severa Parchamis. Because of the deterioratin; situation, the new governor returned Kabul. The former governor, who has been summoned by the Najib government, refuse to go to Kabul.
    Rasool is the militia commander who handed over a French journalist, travelling with the Mujahideen, to regime when he defected some years ago. He belongs to Goroh-i-Kar.
    Goroh-i-Kar separated from the Parcham faction during the reign of the former king.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 5, March 1,1991, page
                           Wisdom of the
sagts
Bad habit proves fatal
    Two dervishes of Khurasan were travelling in each others' company. One was in poor health and would eat only every other day. The other was hale and hearty and took three meals a day. t happened that they were arrested as they entered the gateway of a city and were charged with being spies. They were imprisoned in a house, whose doors were then bricked up. It was only after two weeks that their innocence was proved. By then the hale and hearty dervish was dead and the frail dervish was alive and well.
    The public was astonished at this.
 -A doctor said:" I would have been surprised if it had happened any other way. One was a glutton who could not put up with hunger; so when hardship came, he died miserably. The other was abstemious and patient as always, and so he survived. If you get used to eating little, poverty will be no great hardship to you. But if you indulge your every whim when life is easy, the least hardship will destroy you. If you keep stoking the furnace of your stomach, what will you do when you cannot find any more fuel to stoke.
For giveness clears sins
     A group of thugs took a dislike to a dervish. They shouted insults at him and beat him up. The poor man was so upset, he went to his Pir to complain about what had happened.
     " My son," the old man said," the dervish cloak is the clothing of humble contentment Whoever wears this cloak, must bear with misfortune. If you cannot put Up with frustration, you
are a false dervish and the dervish cloak is forbidden to you. The deep sea will not change if a stone is thrown into it If a mystic allows himself to be offended then his water is still shallow. If someone offends you, bear with him; for forgiveness will clear your sins. My brother! Since you must die, learn to be humble like dust before you cram ble like dust’
Secret of effective speech
     I was once in the mosque at Baalbek delivering a sermon. My listeners were a dull-hearted, apathetic lot, who had never found their way from the superficial world to the world of inner meaning. I saw that the fire of my words had no effect on damp wood of their hearts. I felt I was wasting my time trying to educate the uncouth or enlighten the blind. Yet I was in the .middle of a long discourse explaining the verse where God says: "We are nearer to man than his jugular vein." I extemporized the following verse:
 "The Friend is nearer to me than myself; how strange that I should be so far from Him. What can I say? What can I do? He is lying in my arms and yet I am still so far away."
     I was quite intoxicated by my own eloquence: I had drained the cup to the dregs. A traveller happened to pass by at that moment. My last words seized his imagination. He cried out in admiration and the rest of the company followed suit and their tepid souls came to the boiL " God be praised, " I said. " This lone traveller was attuned to the
 divine presence in his heart, while this crowd was spiritually blind to their own inner reality."
     If you are talking to people who don't understand you, your eloquence will fall flat First win the hearts and minds of your listeners, then your eloquence will carry them wherever you will.
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
    Ask the truth from a child. Meaning: An innocent child will give a true answer:
    ««2Uu»l <JLo» .
    Being clean is half of the faith.
    Meaning: Cleanliness is next to godliness.
                                                                                                             ^djWUU 4* £pljL ’
   ♦       ^   yj* (5^
    Escaping trom the rain 1 spent the night under an open drain.
    Meaning: They who shuns die smoke often fall into the fire.
    ****!> J- cdrt
    The Pushtun who took revqnge after a hundred years said; ” I took it quickly."
    Meaning: Revenge is sweet; or, revenge of a hundred years has still its sucking teeth.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page Q
            jo.Boss264,. Peifew t; (0521) 4igl,;;FA^|52n 42410 ; |§
Ms
ps*l
  Editorial
v
 Jehad enters the critical phase
    As the harsh Afghan winter comes to an end, people want to know what the Mujahideen's course of action will be in the new Afghan year, beginning on March 21. Afghan Jehad has entered a critical phase of its history. The Mujahideen's military and political performances this spring will have a profound affect on the future of Afghanistan.
    Two years have passed since the Soviet troops withdrew their uniformed soldiers from Afghanistan but the Kabul regime is still in power. The Mujahideen's shortcomings, political and military, are the main reason for the regime's survival.
    The major weakness of the Mujahideen is their lack of unity. Without unity it will be difficult to prepare the ground for a large-scale offensive against the Kabul regime. Although efforts for better cooperation and coordination have not ieen successful due to understandable internal and external factors, formation of the Council of Commanders was a step in the right direction. Every effort should * made to help this process.
    The Mujahideen must be aware of declining outside interest in their cause. Although they are still fighting a protracted guerrilla war, they cannot count on outside assistance forever. They must fully exploit the present situation to win the war as quickly as possible.
    In order to do a better job in the new year, the Mujahideen should have used this winter for preparation and planning of their operations.
    Since all the Mujahideen parties say that the Kabul regime is not acceptable to them, they should multiply their efforts to bring it down as soon as possible.
    But unfortunately, events outside Afghanistan take most of the resistance eaders' time, such as that wasted on wrangling over the pros and cons of the Gulf war. Afghans should pay attention to their own problems because they are facing a serious situation at home.
    Every Afghan now. should concentrate on ways of winning the war against the Soviet puppets and replacing it with an efficient, legitimate and representative government.
 JI.A condemns attack on aid bodies
    Jami'at Islami Afghanistan condemns terrorist actions against the relief organizations helping Afghan people.
    Recently persons unknown hurled a hand-grenade was at the offices of Afghanaid, a British relief organization. It caused no casualties. Some days later, a bomb exploded in the office of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, injuring one person, who later died.
      Whoever is behind these deeds and whatever their motives, such acts call for condemnation because they are aimed at hurting innocent people and harming Jehad.
      Private relief organizations have done a good job, by bringing aid to needy Afghans, both inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. They also have provided jobs for a lot of Afghans.
      Since the attacks took place after the start of the war in the Gulf, they might be directed against Western organizations. If that is the case, pro-Saddam elements have chosen their targets poorly because attacks on aid organizaions, which help victims of Soviet aggression, will not bring them good publicity.
      There is a strong possibility of KHAD's involvement in these attacks. Such attacks serve the interests of the Kabul regime, because they may frighten the aid organizations; at the same time the Mujahideen could be blamed for the attacks. Similar incidents in the past have been fully exploited by Moscow and Kabul to defame the Mujahideen.
      The anti-Western rhetoric of some Mujahideen organizations and their state-
                                              Tum to page (5)
 UN Resolution calls for holding freeelections
    A consensus resolution jointly moved by Pakistan and the USSR calling for the holding of free and fair elections in Afghanistan was unanimously passed by the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva on February 18.
    The resolution reiterates that the preservation of the sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and non-aligned and Islamic character of Afghanistan is essential for a peaceful solution of the Afghanistan problem. It emphasizes holding free and fair elections in Afghanistan and states that there should be a dialogue through democratic procedures, including free and fair elections, for a broad-based government.
    The resolution calls upon all states to provide adequate financial and material resources to the coordinator for United Nations humanitarian and economic assistance programmes relating to Afghanistan for the purposes of the speedy repatriation and rehabilitation of the Afghan refugees in their country as well as for its economic and social reconstruction.
    It recommends consideration of the issue in the next session of the commission. The matter relating to the situ ation in Afghanistan will remain under constant consideration of the human rights commission.
 Few refugees return home
    The office of the UN High Commission for Refugees in Geneva says that since the repatriation program of Afghan refugees was launched last year, a total of 13,644 families have returned to Afghanistan.
    The report says that up to February 24, 9050 families from NWFP and 4594 families from Baluchistan have left for Afghanistan.
    The office says if one counts the number of family members, a total of 95,508 persons have left so far.
    Returning refugees sell their ration cards to UNHCR office for a one-time cash and wheat bonus. When the UN launched the program it was expected that a large number of refugees would return, but that did not happen because of continued fighting in Afghanistan.
                                            AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1, 1991, page @
Cold war around arch
     The Kabul regime has launch a media campaign to blame the Vfujahideen for the partial destruction of Taq-i-Zafar, a historical arch in Paghman District some 25 kilometers west of Kabul.
     The arch was built in the memory of the struggle of Afghans against Great Britain,which resulted in gaining l ull independence of Afghanistan in 1919.
     The Mujahideen have no reason to destroy a historical monument. It was indiscriminate bombing and shelling by the Soviets and regime troops which caused the destruction. Thc arch was located in an area controlled by the Mujahideen, a frequent target of re-jjime rocket and artillery fire. It is easy to verify this fact because the side of the arch facing Kabul is damaged while the side facing the mountain is intact
     This also could be seen from the pictures published in the regime papers because in the background of the arch one can see the mountain.
     Paghman, a resort town outside Kabul, has been the scene of many battles between the Mujahideen and Soviet-regime forces in the past 10 years. Not only the arch but most of the villages are razed to the ground by aerial bombing and artillery fire.
                                                                                                       A British journalist who was taken recently by the Kabul regime to Paghman reported that regime officers accompanying him shook their heads in dismay as they passed the ruined
     Taq-i-Zafar in Paghaman
 forms but because of his successful campaign for the liberation of Afghanistan. His arch in Paghman is a sign of the Afghans' victory over colonialism.
     On the contrary, the Kabul regime is not the leader of the war against the outsiders, but a product of foreign intervention and has acted as the guide of the Red Army against its own people for more than 10 long years.
     This analogy paints an ugly picture of the Afghan resistance which is absolutely incorrect. Most of the resistance groups not only struggle for independence but are fighting for a better way of life. Of course they do not accept an outside model for the development of their country, neither from East nor from West.
     The communists in Afghanistan, however, have a common ground with the late king. Amanullah made the
|f Infee officers fff||l|ghan militia have been executed at Spin Boldak, an Afghan border town, where they Were given the death sentence by an Afghan Mujahideen court.
     Shamsuddin,45, the commander of the Jami'at military college, died of a heart attack on February 20. He was buned in Ningarhar Province He had played an active role in the historic uprising of Herat in March 1979.
 jj; j
     Four Afghan refugees were killed and eight were injured, three seriously, in a blast which took place in a petrol store in the Afghan refrj gee camp of Girdi Jangal, Chagfu area of Baluchistan.         ?-
                                           mistake of trying to impose unaccepta-building blaming the Mujahideen for. reforms on the people, which might the destruction. The journalist said
  these hypocritical moves were not convincing because one could see bomb craters beside the ruined buildings and it was obvious that regime and Soviets were using air force in the war, not the Mujahideen.
      There is a historical reason why the communist regime highlights the destruction of the Paghman arch. The arch, built by King Amanullah, is considered by communists a sign of the victory of Afghans over Western colonialism . Amanullah later was dethroned in a popular uprising prompted by his radical modernization program. The communists in Kabul always try to promote themselves as the followers of the late king and brand their opponents . as reactionaries opposing progress.
      But the analogy fails to take into account the opposition of Afghans to the outside domination. Amanullah is famous, not because of his radical re-
have been well-intended. The communists repeated the same mistake half a century later. Amanullah's mistake caused some turmoil in the country but what he did cannot be compared with crimes the communist committed against their people and country. Communists in Afghanistan are true followers of Stalin, not Amanullah or any figure in our history.
 Attack on Aid bodies
           From page (4) ments against the aid community helps the enemy's anti- Mujahideen propaganda.
    The Kabul regime also is interested in creating problems for Pakistan, host to more than three million refugees.
    Jami'at hopes that the Pakistani police will succeed in identifying the culprits and bringing them to justice. The Mujahideen parties should help the process however they can.

     The Government of Canada has donated about $23,000 for relief to the victims of the earthquake in
     The funds will be provided to the thated Nations
 Cooordinator for humanitarian and economic assistance programs relating to Afghanistan (T.INOCA) for its
 emergency relief efforts. 4
 ..
     Najib, the head of the Kabul regime. has said he has offered to hs over control of Kandahar to the supporters of the king lo build confidence between Rabid and the former monarch.                        |
     He did not e&borate what was the result of his offer retd to whom
     A Soviet qpgned in Kabul ii^ipraaiy 23 on the occasion of TOfhanniveisary of the signing of a Soviet-Afghan
           / ♦•it .            ■
     Abomb exploded in the offices of die Swedish Committee for Afghanistan on February 25, injuring oue iiEficer. The tomb was planter tinder the chair rrf liyyed Muqeem Shah, the Conuititiee’s service manager. He was an Afghan holding an
A few days before, a band gte
 nade was

   no casualties.
 the office o. but caused
 iisf
AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page (B
     This article summarizes a paper written by Prof. Rabbani under the title of "A glimpse into the achievements of Jami'at Island Afghanistan", published in the February 13th issue of Mujahid’, a weekly paper published by Jami'at Islami Afghanistan (JIA) in Peshawar.
 In the political field
     The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan shook the world like a bombshell. The world was dismayed and frightened by the incident and did not think that Afghanistan could be taken out of the Soviet dragon's jaws. They were worried about the Soviet advance beyond the borders of Afghanistan and were prepared to forget Afghanistan if Moscow was willing to content itself only with the invasion of Afghanistan.
     Everyone thought that the resistance of Afghan people against the Soviet invaders was a short-lived endeavor and the defiant voices of Afghans would be silenced in a few days. Even Muslims, who are taught by their religion not to be disappointed, thought that liberation of Afghanistan from the occupation of the Soviet Union was only possible through a miracle.
     But a group of faithful Afghans were confident about their final victory and the defeat of the Soviet infidels. They did not lay their arms aside, and continued their struggle until the Soviets were forced to admit defeat and withdraw their troops a decade later.
     JIA was at the forefront a political campaign to deliver the voices of oppressed Afghans to the rest of the world. Prof. Rabbani, talking on behalf of the Afghan Mujahideen, told the OIC Foreign Ministers Conference in Islamabad that Afghans would fight their way to victory. He asked the international community to raise their voices against the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan and help the Mujahideen in their struggle.
     Immediately after the Daud coup of 1973, JIA had warned the Muslim world about the danger of a communist takeover in Afghanistan. A booklet, palled "Afghanistan on the verge of falling into in communists' lap," was distributed to pilgrims in the Holy Land in 1975, describing Daud Khan as a bridge though which communists would take power in Afghanistan. The party also sent an open letter to President Daud and his ranking military officers warning them of the threat by the communists. They were encouraged to take preventive steps before it was too late..
     Besides the armed struggle, JIA gave importance to the political activities of the Mujahideen. It believed that the Mujahideen's relations with the rest of the outside world should not remain an affair dealt with at the level of the secret organizations of the concerned countries. Despite strong propaganda attacks by some rival parties, JIA's leader took the initiative to visit the USA, Western Europe and some African countries to explain to the leaders of these countries the position of the Mujahideen on the issue. As a result of these trips a great deal of publicity was made for the cause of die Afghan Mujahideen.
     HA's leader had the honor of representing the Afghan Mujahideen in die Islamic Summit in Morocco, and lqd the Mujahideen delegation in the OIC Foreign Ministers conference held in Cairo in 1990.
     In its international. relations, JIA has followed a pragmatic and balanced policy
 based on Islamic values and has avoided extreme politics. It has based its relations with die Islamic and non-lslamic countries on the interests of Muslims and has not made itself a party in tensions between countries. For example, it has not sacrificed its relations with Riyadh for ties with Teheran.
      Since JIA puts special emphasis on relations with Muslims all over the world, it has tried to establish good relations with all Islamic movements.
      It supports the struggle of those Muslims who fight for their liberation. This support is based on its principled position of helping oppressed people everywhere in the world. The Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him) has said: " If a Muslim does not care about the sufferings of his Muslim brothers, he does not deserve to be called.a Muslim." Support for Palestinian, Kashmiri and other oppressed Islamic people is part of our international policy.
      JIA believed that the Soviet Union was the main party in the conflict with which a political settlement of the Afghan problem should be discussed. It opposed holding talks with the Kabul regime which was installed by the Soviets and served their interests. A bunch of communist criminals did not have the right to decide the future of Afghanistan.
      The JIA leader led the first Mujahideen delegation in the talks with Yuli Vorontsov in Taif, Saudi Arabia. The Mujahideen delegation asked the Soviet side to leave Afghanistan unconditionally and allow its people to decide their future. When the Soviet side proposed participation of the communist regime in the future Afghan government, they were told that it was an internal problem of Afghans. The same way that the Soviets did not like the Mujahideen to propose the participation of opponents of the Soviet goverranent in power, Afghans rejected such proposals, winch were interference in their affairs.
      Earlier, the Soviets were forced to sit around the table of negotiation with the Mujahideen in Panjshir and to ask for a cease-fire. This major victory was criticized by some short-sighted people in the Mujahideen's ranks, but later it proved to be the beginning of the final victory for Afghans.
      JIA still believes that the key to solution of the Afghan problem is in the Soviets' hands. If they end their military and political interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, the issue will be solved.
      JIA supported formation of the Mujahideen government to fill the vacuum after the Soviets troop withdrawal. Before the formation of the Advisory Council in Rawilpindi, JIA asked for the formation of such a Council in which people from all provinces were represented properly. It used to say that no section of the Afghan society should be left out. Representatives sent by JIA to the Council came from different provinces.
      Despite the fact that JIA did not consider the Advisory Council representative of all sections of the society, it took part in the government formed by the Council in 'the bigger interest of the country. It supported the program of holding elections for a Loya Jirga and tries its best to make it successful. JIA/insists that efforts to include Shia par-tie# in the process should continue so that the result of the elections is acceptable to all.
      JIA, however, proposes that election constituencies in any future election be reorganized based pn the number of voters rather the old administrative units. Hus step is necessary to give balanced representation to
 all geographical areas and ethnic groups in the country.
     JIA has been at the forefront of campaign for the unity of all the Mujahideen parties. Although the present Mujahideen parties either separated from JIA in exile or were created after the Soviet invasion, JIA has always welcomed close cooperation with them. It has given sacrifices for achieving this objective in the past and continue to do so in die future.
     JIA signed an agreement with Hezb Islami recently and hopes to see it succeed. It supports the political and military unity of the Mujahideen and backs the programs of Council of Commanders to coordinate the Mujahideen military operations.
     JIA has been opposed to Mujahideen infighting and propaganda war against each other. Except in one or two cases that JIA became a target of massive propaganda, it has not even defended itself against the propaganda attacks of the rival groups.
     JIA refrained from writing about events which caused separation of some groups from the party in hope that one day they might return. This policy caused some confusion about the nature of these differences and in some cases the press presented the events in a distorted way.
                                                                                                                      In the military field
     JIA has played a leading role in the armed struggle against the Soviets. Jehad started with popular uprisings all over Afghanistan. Mujahideen used primitive weapons. Such an uprising was necessary to show the enemy that the people of Afghanistan were united in their opposition to the invaders.
     Realizing the need for training, JIA was the first party to establish a military academy. So far the school has trained more than 1400 officers, who have played a positive role in the military performance of the Mujahideen. It also organized short-term training classes to teach ordinary Mujahideen the use of arms and tactics.
     JIA policy was to help the natural growth of strong fronts and strengthen the position of those commanders who showed qualities of leadership. There were some who thought that such a support might give a chance for individual commanders to become independent from tire party, but JIA ignored these warnings and let the young leadership have a natural growth not only in the military but also in tile political field. This policy proved useful and now JIA has the most capable commanders of Jehad and very strong bases in Afghanistan. This policy enabled people like Masood to spread their Influence.
     Creation of the Islamic Army by the Supervisory Council, headed by Commander Masood, is a unique initiative in tite history of Jehad. This idea once was criticized by some Mujahideen parties but after the Soviet troop withdrawal everyone has become aware of the need for such an army. Every party is now busy building its own army.
     Commander Ismail Khan, Martyr Zabihullah Khan, Martyr Afzali, Mullah Naqibullah and other JIA commanders have contributed a great deal to the overall military achievements of the Afghan resistance.
                                                                                                                    In the education field
     JIA has given special attention to edu cation. Although it could not do what it wanted in. this field due to lade of means,' its achievements in the field of education are still remarkable.
                                                                                                                JIA was the first Mujahideen party
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 5, March 1,1991, page 0
 which opened schools in ' the refugee camps. Tens of thousands of students attend its schools in Pakistan. It has also opened 200 schools in Iran in which about 40,000 students study. JIA has opened hundreds of schools inside Afghanistan.
     JIA has paid special attention to opening Madrasas (religious schools) and schools for memorizing the Holy Quran. One of such schools, Madras-i-Abuhanifa, has 3000 students.
     It has opened several girls' schools inside and outside Afghanistan and has established a police school and one academy of Islamic sciences.                   ,
     The educational activities of JIA are aimed at giving an opportunity for young Afghans to leant reading and writing and to train them so that they can assume responsibility in the government after the liberation of the country.
     The brain drain of educated Afghans is a major problem for Afghanistan, fit order to slow down this process JIA opened a Scientific Board in Islamabad where scholars could carry out research in different fields. Although this organization was not totally successful, some Afghans scholars made use of its facilities to do academic work, some which has been published.
     JIA was the first party to publish its own paper before the April Coup of 1978. The paper, called Jami'at, was written by hand and was edited by martyr Shiwan. Now JIA publishes papers and magazines in Persian, Pushtu, English, and, Arabic. Mujaliid, Inqilab Islami, Misaq-i-Khoon, Al-Mujahidoon, and AFGHANews are die major publications of the party. It also publishes several papers from inside Afghanistan. The women's branch and the youth wing of JIA publish their own papers in Peshawar and Tehran . The party has published many books and booklets, written by its members, in many languages.
     To promote sports, JIA has opened an Olympic Committee in Peshawar and another in Tehran.
                                                                                                 In the reconstruction field
    JIA is providing medical services to die people in Afghanistan. Despite war conditions, hospitals are built and with the passage of each year their performance is improving. The party has built new roads and repaired old ones and has constructed a number of irrigation channels, buildings for schools, mosques and health clinics.
    Maintenance of law and order in the areas controlled by JIA is a major achievement of this party..
                                                                                                Opening orphanages to take care of the orphans was a good step. Madina
 Orphanage in Peshawar has evolved into a model institution.
     JIA has laid the foundation of an administrative unit at the provincial level-in Takhar which is run in cooperation with some other Mujahideen parties. In Herat and one part of Badakhshan, controlled by Sayyed Najmuddin. effective administrative units have been established.
     JIA realizes that it has only started the reconstruction work, a lot is yet to be done.. Without reconstruction the Islamic revolution in Afghanistan will be lost along the way. But the major reconstruction work will start when the Mujahideen have liberated Afghanistan.
 Current situation
rill?
Students protest against the AIGI
   Police on Feb. 27 <&■■■ group of Afghan students and refn gees who attempted to marc^B
a
perse the crowd. The Frontier post
                      ' | mainly by I 1         •" Hezb   Islami
     Despite some progress in the battle- N{Hikirhi^ar}, raised slogans
                                            I                                  '    !
     Mujahideen commanders have planned                   days  before,  a group of
 to coordinate their activities. It is hoped that [ Students* belonging 10 Prof. SayyaTs die implementation of their program will                       parties,
 bring a posiuve change m the situation. j                 f                       -
     The Kabul regime’s maneuvers had | WtOtlStratOft in front Of.the AIG head*
 created an impression in the mind of outsid- |$j|: ers involved in Afghan issues that the re- I' j^asoB gime was gaining victory in its war for sur- i;::
 vival. It was a short-lived impression followed by attempt to involve the-former king in the political game.
      Outsiders seem worried about the formation of an Islamic government. But the roots of our problems are inside Afghanistan. If we solve our internal problems, it does not matter what the rest
  ^■300
                                                                                    ;Governmi
' ' M the four dj ■■the AIG. |
                                                                                KTiFour Ii
                                                                                                                          fcnfbr the samel ■it more than] to Saudi Arbia all «f fee Saudi] k| Arabia is one of | which recognizes
C0ffl<
world says. We will succeed.                       irt       Kandahar
    JIA believes that the Kabul regime              m     RallUdilal
must not play a role in die political solution E ' ' *'”*“'’*’* m thi*
 of the Afghan problem. Its criminal leaders can leave the country and its ordinary mem-

 forgiven.
      The Mujahideen parties should act together. Any coup attempt or operation by individual parties will not solve the problem. Since the Kabul regime is not ready to give up power peacefully, the Mujahideen should not forget their fighting responsibilities.
      The Mujahideen should re-organize themselves. Small independent groups cannot do a proper job. Limited attacks on weak points of the enemy should continue until weather conditions are suitable for large scale operations in the new Afghan year.
      Changes should be introduced in the AIG structure to make it effective and it should continue its work until a new council has been formed. This council will decide the future of the AIG.
mmm
  12, ICRC reported:

Council teachers hold seminars
    The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council has held two seminars for teachers and one for headmasters in Takhar, Hindukush ' News Agency reported.
    The first seminar, in which 50 teachers from Takhar and Kunduz Province took part, lasted from December 31 to February 6 in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. The second 7-day seminar, attended by 50 teachers, started on February 7 . The seminar of the headmasters which started on February 23 ended on February 29.
    In the seminars, teachers and headmasters are taught new teaching and administrative technics.
     A similar seminar in which teachers from Kapisa and Parwan provinces took part was held in Panjshir.
Party men purged
    Abdul Karim Misaq and Hashmatullah Kaihani, the two prominent members of the PDPA, have beat expelled from the party. This was the second purge since the abortive coup attempt by Tanai about one year ago.
    Misaq, who was until recently mayor of Kabul, was a member of the politburo of PDPA when it seized power through a military coup in April of 1978. A paper in Kabul reported that Misaq had sought asylum in Germany.
    Kaihani was once a powerful figure in the propaganda department of the PDPA and last served, as ambassador to North Korea, from where herefused to return when recalled.
 International Red Cross <
aired by MU ■ of Hezb
 donate. A
He^:pi8ii

 who messed them,M|||||MI pjlQftC'^bas ' 1622 ■ of$|||| Pakistan and Afghanistan toj war natitfts. 7n*MHRii^N been cnao/cd by wine
! killed m Herat province last summer
iiiiiliioiiatell
Nqpb, is collecting funds to help Iraq. This group also staged pro-Sadtfcun dononstrationsln Kabul. The founder of this party is repotted to have der
                            AFGHANews Vol7, No 5, March 1,1991, page
Jami'at rejects Kabul's claim of massive Mu jahideen defection
     Jami'at Islami has rejected report that an important Jami'at commander in Qaysar District, Faryab Province, has defected to Kabul regime forces.
     Kabul claimed that Reza Khan Alakozay joined the regime along with
 10,000 followers, 4,300 of whom were armed.
     A Jami'at officer from Faryab province told AFGHANews that no Mujahideen commander in the area has so many armed men under his command. He said Reza Khan Alkozay was a minor commander who led at most 200 men and controlled 3 villages with a total population of about 1000 people. The area he controlled was called Do
 Aabi which is situated on Qaysar and Ghormach District of Badghis Province. He came from a Kuchi (nomad) tribe, a minority group in the province.
     He said Reza Khan once had applied for Jami'at membership but his appeal was rejected because of his bad reputation.
     The source said he was not aware of Reza Khan's joining the Kabul regime, but even if the news were true, the figures given by the Kabul regime are highly exaggerated. Furthermore, the commander is not a member of Jami'at, as the regime has claimed.
Resistance has more fighters, Kabul regime more weapons
     An American military expert says that the Kabul regime army has become stronger since the Soviets left Afghanistan two years ago.
     Colonel' James Corcoran, the Director of Asian Studies at the National War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, told VOA that the Kabul regime had a total of 158,000 armed men who are equipped with good, weapons provided to them by the Soviets!
     The regime army has 58,000 men,
 8.000  of whom belong to the air force. The Special Guard Division has
 25.000  men, and is assigned to defend Kabul.
     Col. Corcoran said in addition to die regular army, the Kabul regime has around 100,000 paramilitary forces who are divided into the following categories:
     1-     Border guards: 20,000 men under direct control of the army.
     2-     WAD (regime secret police) armed forces: 20,000 men
     3- Local militias: 32,000
     4- Police forces: 20,000
     Colonel Corcoran said the Kabul
 regime army has T-62, T-54, T-55, and PT-76 tanks, 122 and 130mm self-propelled guns-and several types of rocket launchers. The Soviets have also given ground-to-ground SCUD missiles to the Kabul regime.
     He said die Kabul regime also has armored cars of BMP and BTR types which move on wheels rather than on treads.
     He estimated the number of Mujahideen at 180,000 men operating all over Afghanistan, and mainly belonging to the seven parties based in Peshawar.
 Warsaw pact is dissolved
       The Warsaw Pact, whosemilitarystructure was dissolved on February 15, supported the Soviet aggression in Afghanistan by providing funds and logistical supplies to the Red Army. The empty cans of Bulgarian canned food can still be found beside empty cartridges olf Russian shells in abandoned Soviet trenches all ova: Afghanistan. Czechoslovakia trained the puppet army to repair weapons and provided trucks for transportation. The East German secret police trained regime police and provided KHAD with deadly assassination weapons. One such weapon, a two-barrelled pistol and poisonous shells, made in East Germany, were given to a KHAD agent to assassinate Commander Masood. The agent defected and handed over the weapon and ammunition to the Mujahideen.
       The end of this military organization is good news not only for Afghans but also for the people of Eastern Europe. The pact was used by Moscow to crush popular movements which struggled for democracy and freedom.
    Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, has said that the Soviet Union, which brought the Kabul regime to power and protected it with the Red Army, now gives it 3500 million dollars per year to keep it in power, VOA. reported.
    He said the Kabul regime has fired 2500 SCUD missiles against die Mujahideen since Soviet troops withdrew, and that the Soviets also provided the regime with BM-27 rockets and other deadly weapons.
    Referring to a report by the Soviet news agency, TASS, he said three-fourths of Soviet foreign aid is given to the Kabul regime.
    He said the Mujahideen control 80 percent of Afghanistan and they continue to capture more areas. Liberation of Tereenkoot, the provincial capital of Urozgan, was an example.
   fOK

J
  Bound sets of the 24 issues of AFGHANews 1990 are available for sale at:
     AFGHANews P.O.Box 264- Peshawar Pakistan Price in Pakistan Rs. 30, abroad $10 (including airmail)
STOCKS ARE LIMITED.
l^^Lsri
IT^J
                                                   9{dp us puBCish
                                               (Phase send your donations to tfie fodowing account number:
                                                   yEMXD S\ccount(S[p. 735-37 (Habib tBan%_Ltd . ‘TefikaC Hcda, ‘Peshawar (Pakistan
 Vol 7, No 6
 March 15,1991
cC OPENS
IN QUETTA
     The Council of Commanders (CC) has opened its office in Quetta. This office will deal with the Mujahideen of southwestern Afghanistan.
     A 15-member delegation, headed by Commander Haqqani, went to Quetta to open the office and talk with Mujahideen commanders, religious scholars (Ulama) and tribal elders.
     About 250 commanders, Ulama and elders belonging to different provinces of southwestern Afghanistan expressed their support for the council.
     There were, however, some opposition to the CC's mission, instigated by some Mujahideen political parties which oppose it.
     Commander Anwar returned from New York after taking part in a conference on Afghanistan as the representative of the CC.
     Among other matters, he discussed the problems of aid for Afghanistan.
     He told the conference that Afghans should be involved in planning for any assistance given to them. He criticized Sadruddin's role as the Coordinator of UN aid for Afghanistan and said he did not consult Afghans about the programs he launched . That was the reason for his failure, the commander said.
     Commander Anwar met with Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the resistance, and two US senators during his visit, and discussed the situation with them. He was also interviewed by BBC and VOA's Dari and Pushto services.
     The CC is planning to hold its third meeting in the spring. The council has raised hopes for victory by the Mujahideen, but the people are waiting for practical result of its activities on the battlefield situation. The council scored a victory when Ahmad Shah Masood attended its special meeting on the border of Badakhshan Province.
Second Shia Conference ends in Iranian capital
     The Second Shia Conference of Afghan Mujahideen concluded in Teheran on March 1.
     Prominent Shia Mujahideen and scholars took part in the conference. It was aimed at discussing the current situation in Afghanistan and trying to forge unity among Shia groups.
     President Rafsanjani and Foreign Minister Velayati sent messages to the conference, which were read out by their representatives.
     Rafsanjani stressed the need for giving Afghans the right of self-determination. Velayati, praising the courage of the Afghan people, said that an Islamic government should be formed in Afghanistan to safeguard the interests of all sections of Afghan society.
     A resolution passed by the conference asked for termination of outside interference in Afghanistan's affairs.
     A spokesman of Harakat-i-Islami (Mohseni) has rejected the Iranian official radio repot that Harakat has been merged into Hezb-i-WahdaL
     Javed, the spokesman of Harakat, said that only three members of the Central Council of Harakat left the party to join Hezb WahdaL The party un-
 der the leadership of Shaikh Mohseni still existed, he added. He regretted the closing of Harakat's offices in Tehran and other cities of Iran by the Islamic Republic.
     When he was asked why Iran took such a step, he said the independent position of Harakat is not liked by Iran.
     Ayatullah Mohseni is a renowned Shia scholar who is famous for his in dependent attitudes.
     Harakat has some powerful fronts in Afghanistan. One of them is led by Commander Anwari near Kabul.
     Some months ago some Shia parties formed a single party called Hezb-i-Wahdat, which is supported by Iran, Harakat did not join that party and continued its independent activities from Pakistan.
     Also:     Abdul Hamid Sajjadi, a
 ranking member of Hezb-i-Wahdat has died in a car accident near Lahore, Pakistan. He was a member of the Central Council of the Tehran-based Wahdat party. He was a religious schol ar who had studied in Iraq and Iran.
     Sajjadi had come to Pakistan for business. Four other Afghans were injured, two of them seriously, in the incident.
Iranian Majlis speaker meets with Mujahideen leaders in Islamabad
     Afghanistan was one of the topics of discussion between the speaker of the Iranian Majlis (national assembly) and leaders of Pakistan during the Iranian official's four-day visit to Pakistan beginning on February 23.
     Mehdi Ali Karoubi reiterated his government's stand on Afghanistan when he addressed the national assembly of Pakistan. He said Afghans should be allowed to decide their future without interference from outside. Bilateral issues and the Gulf conflict were at the top of the agenda during the talks between the Iranian and Pakistani leaders.
     Mr. Karoubi also met with a num-
 ber of Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani, in Islamabad. Talking to the Afghan leaders, he stressed the need far unity among the Mujahideen. In this meeting, he announced a donation of $1.5 million for the welfare of orphans and families of martyrs in Afghanistan.
     In Teheran, Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Belonogov and his Iranian counterpart Mohmoud Vaezi reviewed the latest developments in Afghanistan and agreed that Iran and the Soviet Union would exchange delegations in the near future to follow up the issue.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page @
FromThe Battlefields
Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at, under the command of Sayyed Alauddin, killed three regime soldiers and wounded one when they attacked them with heavy weapons on February 26.
    The enemy retaliated by firing artillery and rockets, injuring two civilians and destroying two houses. Alauddin operates close to Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab.
Kabul Province
    The Mujahideen have detonated bombs at 25 enemy targets in Kabul in the five days beginning February 20, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    The targets included the Ministry of Information, a building of the Youth Organization, the Soviet and Vietnamese embassies and military and WAD installations. The explosions were designed to avoid civilian casualties.
    Three people were killed and one armored car was destroyed. The explosions forced the Kabul regime to intensify security measures by deploying additional armed men in the streets and setting up checkposts.
    Meanwhile . students' of Kabul University staged a demonstration to press their demands for improved living conditions. The regime has deployed a large number of armed troops on the university campus. The students used bullhorns to broadcast then-demands
    Sources report that a group of amputees entered Macrorayan area, a housing complex in Kabul, and beat some of its residents. They were demanding housing facilities. The amputees have lost their limbs in the war against the Mujahideen.
Baghlan Province
    Five Mujahideen were killed and six injured when the enemy launched a
 ground and air attack against their position in Hasantal area of Baghlan on February 29.
    The Mujahideen resisted the enemy and fighting continued as this report was filed.
 Balkh Province
    Twenty-five armed militiamen headed by Khalid Tahir surrendered, to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Paikan Dara of Sholgar District on February 21. .
    Two Mujahideen were killed and two were wounded as a result of mine explosion.
 Herat Province
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 12 enemy personnel, including two doctors and four drivers, in Kamar Kulagh area on Herat-Islam Qala road on March 3. Five enemy trucks were set on fire in the ambush.
    •     The Mujahideen from Jami'at killed one enemy soldier, wounded five and captured two in Kabtor-Rood area of Chist District on March 1.
    The areas was liberated and Mujahideen seized five Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen and two civilians were killed and 11 Mujahideen were wounded.
 Nimroz Province
    Two militiamen were killed and five wounded when the Mujahideen attacked them in Chakhansoor District on March 1.
 Badghis Province
    More than 100 militiamen led by Abdurrahman Khan joined the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Furstan area on 29 of February, bringing with them 80 Kalashnikov rifles, nine machine-guns, three rocket launchers and large quantities of ammunition.
     Likewise, five militiamen and their commander defected to the Mujahideen in Aab Kamari area bringing with them six guns.
     The above reports are confirmed by Ismail Khan who has radio link with the area.
 Kandahar Province
     A Mujahideen group of Raees Abdul Wahid clashed with regime mili tiamen who set an ambush for them in Lalak-o-Zark area of Mai wand District on February 26.
     Eight militiamen of Jabar Khan were killed, and the rest fled. Three Mujahideen were killed and five were injured.
 Ghor Province
    •     Eleven armed soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen of Mawlawi Musa, Jami'at commando- in Chikhcharan on March 3.
    •     The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured three enemy soldiers and seized 40 guns in two days of fighting in Chikhcharan on February 23. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the enemy.
 Farah Province
    •     The Mujahideen killed four militiamen and destroyed one truck on February 16 in Aab Khurma area, on Herat-Shindand road.
    •     Fighting between two militia groups of the Kabul regime in Kalsak area has left 45 dead and 43 wounded from both sides. Fighting between them continued as of February 17.
 Hundreds killed in recent floods
    The recent floods in southwest Afghanistan caused a lot of death and destruction. Here are details of losses, in some districts controlled by the Mujahideen:
    •     In Baghran District, Helmand Province, 50 people were killed 1300 houses, 17 mosques and 250 shops were destroyed.
    •       In Arghandab District, Kandahar Province, 106 people were killed and 435 were injured. The floods destroyed 1230 houses, 76 mosques and 176 vineyards. More than 650 animals were also killed.
    •          In Panjwaie District, Kandahar Province, 400 houses woe destroyed.
    •      In Taiwara District, Ghore Province, 60 houses were destroyed and 20 people were killed.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
      I was once in a meeting and saw a fellow dressed as a dovish; he was whining and complaining in a most undervish-like manner. He was blaming the rich for being miserly and having no desire to help the poor. "Those who are penniless are always generous; but the owners of great wealth never are!"
      I had long enjoyed the favors of the rich and found his comment unacceptable. "My friend,” I said, "The rich are the protectors of the poor and the weak, the refuge of travellers and saints. They carry aheavy burden erf responsibility to relieve others. They would never touch their own food until their guests and dependents have eaten. Their generosity benefits the old, the sick, widdows, orphans, neighbors, etc. The rich can give money to religious endowments or to religious leaders, they can offer hospitality to travellers , they can buy the freedom of prisoners or buy animals for sacrifice. In all this, they gain religious merit; while you, poor wretch, can do no more than offer the obligatory prayers, and often your clothes are not clean enough even to do that!
      The rich are better in terms of generosity and piety, since their wealth has been purified by paying the Zakat, and their prayers are said with clean clothes and a heart free of care. Whereas the poor cannot be strong on an empty stomach or generous with empty hands. Whoever does not know what he will eat in the morning spends the night restlessly tossing to and fro. The ant gamers in summer to rest in winter. How can. you compare the man who calmly says the night prayer after a good dinner with the beggar who is still scavenging for scraps after dark? The wealthy can afford to think of God, the poor just worry about their own poverty. Have you not heard the tradition of the Prophet - Poverty is a disgrace in this world land the next!"
      The false dervish replied: "And have you not heard the saying of the Prophet - Proud to be Poor!
      I told him to be quiet "Our Lord is referring to spiritual poverty as a quality of those who are content with what they have and accept their fate. Not
 those with big turbans who live off public charity! You boom like a drum but you are quite empty inside! You are too worried about your stomach to go and fight! If you are a real man, stop scrounging off others and stop fingering that thousand-bead rosary of yours!
    Moreover, " I added, ” Ignorance and poverty always lead to heresy. Calm of mind depends on knowingthat your food will come to you regularly without fail. In the desert, a thirsty man does not see the world as it is, but is obsessed by visions of water."
    When at last I . finished speaking, the false dervish lost his temper and attacked me with his sharp tongue and bombarded me with insults. "You've really scraped the barrel of your oily rhetoric in praise of the rich! One would think they were the universal antidote to suffering or even the elixir of life! They are puffed up with pride, infatuated with themselves, obsessed with money and posessions, mere snobs and capitalists! They drawl their meaningless speech and look down their haughty noses! They accuse scholars of being beggars and despise the poor for being helpless. They think themselves so high and . mighty because of their money and supposed status that they always take the best seats and would'nt dream of noticing anyone below them!" (TO BE CONTINUED)
                      AFGHAN
                      PROVERBS
 , JyjuA        Juu»l <U Lid
    The world lives on hope.
    Meaning: Don't get discouraged because we must have hope to live and work aright
                                                                                                       *t tf***
                                                      o**
    Let Christians practice their own religion, and let Jews practice theirs.
    Meaning: People should have freedom of religion.
    By enquiring one can even reach India.
    Meaning: Seek, and you shall find.
    «dJjjJ yjJ C
    To the heavy (respectable) you are respectable and to the light (worthless) you are worthless.
    Meaning: Take the tone of the company you are in.
  The believers single brotherh peace and reconciliatio
fl a     i      a s j»Sg if
between your two (co
  ing) br tha
rs; and fea y receive
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
     The late recent disturbances in a political meeting of Mujahideen parties and during a seminar organized by an Afghan organization, involving members of a Mujahideen party, is a harmful development for Jehad. In both incidents, intervention by the police became necessary to restore order. Such incidents have taken place in the past, both in Peshawar and some Western countries, involving members of the same Mujahideen party.
     These ugly incidents are deplorable and should be brought to an end. Such events earn a bad reputation for the Mujahideen, give the Kabul regime a prop-ganda tool and widen the gap between different groups of the. Afghan resistance.
     In the absence of positive military and political news, such scenes during meetings of Afghans in exile, in front of journalists and guests from all over the world, damages the Mujahideen's image. The world expects Afghans to behave more reasonably and solve their political differences through dialogue. The Mujahideen have enjoyed the support and sympathy of the majority of world's people. These incidents will disappoint them.
     No Mujahideen party or individual should forget for a moment that we are facing a sophisticated enemy which, despite its criminal record, has put up a humane facade. The Kabul regime, in collaboration with Moscow, talks about peace, reconciliation, a multi-party system, etc. We know that the offer is sham and the past record of the puppet government's members disqualify them from any political role in the future. But unfortunately not everyone can see that deep; they forget history quickly and are affected easily by skillful propaganda.
     If some Mujahideen indulge intimidating their rivals by disrupting their meetings, regime propaganda against the Mujahideen will have even more effect on the minds of people inside and outside Afghanistan.
     More important, the Afghan resistance is composed of spectrum of different political outlooks. Bringing these people together is a prerequisite for any major military and political achievement by the resistance. Any attempt to prevent different groups from expressing their views will divide the resistance further and weaken the chances of finding a common platform for the opponents of the Kabul regime.
     Such incidents contradict the stated position of the involved party — namely that it favors the formation of an elected government in Afghanistan.
     Jami'at earnestly demands the end of such a sad trend in the politics of the resistance. Let all Afghans opposed to the Kabul regime express their views freely, so that a consensus formula is found for the future of Afghanistan.
  'Friendship Treaty' is cover for aggression
     The 70th anniversary of the . signing of a 'Friendship Treaty’ between Afghanistan and the USSR was celebrated in Kabul with a lot of publicity. Two delegates, one representing Gorbachev and the other Yeltsin, visited Kabul. Week-long music and film festivals were held and Soviet singers and dancers were brought to give the occasion a special flavor. Political meetings were held to highlight the importance of the treaty.
     The first Afghan-Soviet Friendship Treaty’ was signed on February 28, 1921. Very soon the Soviet Union ignored it, when it annexed the two Khanates of Khiva and Bukhara. This treaty was renewed by successive governments in Kabul.
     The regime's enthusiasm in celebrating the occasion is normal. The regime is the product of Soviet intervention and has survived because of Soviet supplies of fuel and flour. But the regime always claims to speak on behalf of the Afghan people, and calls the treaty a symbol of friendship between the two peoples.
                                        ,        Turn to page (7 )
Review

                                                       Dust of the Saints By Radek Sikorski
                                                            Chatto and Windus £14.95
     Radek Sikorski has written an exciting account of his journey to the great historic Afghan city of Herat. Its title. Dust of the Saints recalls the cultural and religious heritage of Herat. Sikorski went as a writer and skilled photographer, aiming to find out for himself who was in control of the city. ■A second reason he gives is the wish to discover exactly what happened there in Spring 1979, when an army mutiny and mass uprising had badly shaken the fragile communist regime.
     Sikorski writes that he understood very well the religious faith which pervaded his stay in the country. "Tell any many that the faith of his ancestors, his morals and his daily customs are backward and useless, force him at gunpoint to adopt a way of life he had been taught to despise, and finally get a foreign army to bum his village and kill his family if he resists • and the end-product could be a fanatic, in any age or country."
     The sheer difficulties of travel by horseback along rough mountainous paths had some obvious effects on media coverage of this war, especially in' the remote northwest of Afghanistan which few foreign journalists visited. As to why Herat in particular attracted Sikorski, he answers frankly it was danger which drew him, as well as the historic buildings.
     A strong Polish nationalist, Sikorski was keen to see how the anti-Soviet guerrilla resistance was faring in this important Afghan region, isolated from the Pakistan borders where the "weapons pipeline" has alerted the nature of guerilla warfare through the 1980s.
     "Afghanistan in general drew me through its spirit of brotherhood, which I had experienced in Poland during our revolution, and again among the Afghans.... when shared danger broke down barriers of culture and religion."
     Some remarkable photographs illustrate Dust of the Saints, which will be enjoyed as a vivid travel book, besides having distinct merits as a personal appreciation of Herat in time of war Courtesy: ARIN
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page ©
believers and hypocrites await Ramadhan for different reasons
     The holy month of Ramadhan has started. All Muslims, except for children, the sick and travellers, have to abstain from eating, drinking and sex from dawn to sunset In order to observe a complete fast, one should also abstain from saying or doing anything vain.
     Observing Ramadhan fulfills one of Allah's commands, which is great honor for a Muslim to do. If a person observes Ramadhan in the manner Islam recommends, his soul will be purified; he will gain more self-control and will be more attentive to sufferings of the sick and hungry in the community. Recitation of the whole Quran in special nightly prayers( Taraweh) during this month will remind Muslims of their religious obligations.
     The obligatory payment of a certain amount of food (or money) to the poor at the end of Ramadhan, is a practical demonstration of teachings of Ramadhan, and the celebration of Eid at the end of Ramadhan is a social occasion with an important spiritual and humane dimension.
     While Ramadhan is a time for worship and purification of the soul for true believers, it is a month of hypocrisies for the non-believers in the Islamic communities.
     The vast majority of Afghans are practicing Muslims. The fast is observed all over the country. Religion is such a dominating force in Afghanistan that the communist rulers of the Kabul regime have been forced to adopt an Islamic face in public. Communist leaders visit mosques during
 Ramadhan, accompanied by cameramen, to gain publicity. Qaris (Holy Quran Reciters) are invited from "progressive" Arab countries like Iraq, Libya, Yemen and Syria to take part in international competitions of Quran recitation. Najib generally grants amnesty to some prisoners and declares a cease-fire. The regime Prime Minister,
 Khaliqyar, is the master of hypocrisy. He has been preparing the ground for Ramadhan propaganda for several months.
      Exploitation of this holy month by rulers of Afghanistan has a long history. Zahir Shah and Daud sent messages on the occasion and released some prison-os, though they and most of their family members did not observing Ramadhan or offer regular prayers. They did not try to persuad their ranking officials to practice their faith.
      Afghans have always missed having leaders who share their beliefs and lead normal lives like the masses. The language, clothing, food and beliefs of the rulers have always been different from those of the common man. This was the major source of problems forcing the ruling circles to indulge in hypocrisy to hide their true nature.
      Afghans now have a unique chance to change the situation. If the Mujahideen succeed in toppling the Kabul regime, this would be the first time that the leaders of Afghans will be from among the ordinary masses, sharing their beliefs and their way of life.
                       Price list of some commodities in Kabul
                                    (March 1,1991)
                                        per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per seven kilograms per kilogram per kilogram per box each
                                        per gallon
 • One US dollar equals 800 Afs. An average official of the Kabul regime earns Afs. 6,000 per month.
                                                                                                     Courtesy : MIDI A
 1- Ghee
 2- Potatoes
 3- Rice
 4- Onion
 5- Sugar
 6- Lamb
 7- Matches
 8- Eggs
 9- Kerosene
 Afs; 9500 Afs. 750 Afs. 1300 Afs. 1600 Afs. 600 Afs. 1700 Afs. 140 Afs. 75 Afs. 1000
The women's branch of Jami'at
■ The Kabul regime crushed the [uprising by force. Hundreds of people were killed, wounded or thrown
     In the i me^ing a considerable I pmber Of refugees, as well as some Iranian women, took part       I
  i •••                      „   I
  | Malik Sherin, A 65-year-old-man from Khost in Paktia province, iwas awarded the rank of general by

                                                                                                                                                I; m
                                                                                                               J:|tes and £wd-| als are much cheaper Stan bread a»d
                                                                                                                ; The Iranian Embassy in Kabul
                                                                                                                                       worth of 2«MX» Afs. to the AJi
  •’ •. * .•  v       ’y   t---j: • •'

                                                                                                         bedclothes to the state-tun Mother
                                                                                                                                        This
P -       p*l*^^^**1
es footed two; shops near the] Ministry of the Interior following an [explosion on Eebmwy ^2. tf*|
^ *'*&** found
                             empty, *******
    KUij
                         Cross workers kidnapped by a Hezb

     ***■
 the MG, has reamed to Peshawar from a visit to Germany and Libya.. in Ge*tsany,:'.he raet with-some Afghans, to           jf ™
               E,- . . - 'S .■ I
AFGHANews Vol7, No 6, March 15,1991, page
Balkh Province sitrep
    This article is based on an interview with Commander Ata Mohammad, the deputy provincial chief of Jami'at Island in Balkh province. He is currently visiting Peshawar.
    Ata Mohammad, 28, was born in a Tajik trading family in the city of Mazar. He became affiliated with the Islamic movement when he was a student. After graduation from Bakhtar High School in 1981, he joined the armed struggle. He is a great admirer of the late Zabihullah, the founder of the Mazar resistance; he has demonstrated his leadership stills in war and peace. The Mazar front operates under the umbrella of the Supervisory Council, led by Ahmad Shah Masood.
 Commander Ata Mohammad
     The death of a hero could be demoralizing and even fatal. The untimely death of Commander Zabihullah in 1981 was a major challenge to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Balkh Province. Although the incident did not cause major damage to the resistance, it slowed its growth. Zabihullah had established the foundation of organized resistance, a blueprint for his Mujahideen to follow after his death. They managed to keep unity among themselves, choose a new leadership and slowly but steadily expand their influence.
     In recent years, Jami'at Islami in Balkh has introduced some changes in its military organization. The reorganization and training of the Mujahideen have had a positive effect on the performance of the Mujahideen on the battlefield.
     •After the Soviet troop withdrawal, military operations against the enemy intensified, hi a short time, two districts were liberated and three battalions of the enemy were captured. These victories forced the Kabul regime to replace the provincial head of KHAD (the regime secret police). He was Gul Agha, a very.clever man who had succeeded in infiltrating the ranks-of some of the less-well-organized resistance parties.
     In addition, to the local defensive forces, Jami’at has created several battalions. Each battalion has 450 men who are trained inside Afghanistan.
     Although the Mujahideen of Mazar have high morale and a strong will to fight the communists, their main problem is lack Of ammunition and weapons. They have to fight carefully because these supply shortages. A reduction in outside assistance, long supply lines and defects in the system of distribution are some of reasons for the shortages. . *
     Economic difficulties also limit the military growth of the Mujahideen. The agricultural-based local economy
 has been badly damaged by war, drought and insects. The Mujahideen cannot expect the local population to give them all the assistance they need.
     Jami'at, the largest Mujahideen party in Balkh Province, has good relations with the other Mujahideen parties, except for commander Juma of Hezb Islami who has cut off the irrigation water for three districts since last sum-. mer. The people and their animals in these districts are suffering as a result.
     The incident has given the Kabul regime a propaganda tool to use against the Mujahideen. Hezb's leadership has been informed of this matter, and other Mujahideen leaders also have promised to help, but so far this crisis has not been solved. Juma Khan controls some villages in Chimtal District and has about 300 armed men.
     Jami'at's problems with Harakat (Mohammadi's group) have been solved. Relations between the two parties were tense in thepast due to subversive activities of Maoist elements (Pro-Chinese communists originally belonging to the Shola-i-Javed party) who had infiltrated the local Harakat party. Maoists who had come from other parts of Afghanistan pretended, to do medical work. Meanwhile they stirred up problems between the Mujahideen in a bid to gain influence. All of them have left the area, except for one known locally as Dr. Kachalou. He is now working with Harakat (Mohseni's party).
     Maoists were responsible for the death of Commander Zabihullah.
     All seven parties based in Peshawar maintain a presence in Balkh. About five percent of the population of the province are $hia. The Shias have organized their own parties. Harakat (Mohseni) and the Iran-based Wahdat party are the two main groups.
     The economy of the province is tied to agriculture. Most of the farms are rain-fed. Due to dry weather during the past 4 years and damage to wheat crops by Sunn pest beetles, farm pro-
 duction has decreased considerably. Prices of essential foodstuffs have risen very high.
     The UN has distributed some food, but it has not been sufficient to have much of an impact on the situation. Jami'at has distributed ,300 tons of wheat and sugar donated by UN in the liberated areas. Other Mujahideen parties have also distributed some wheat. The Mujahideen believe that 80% percent of the UN aid has been distributed in regime-controlled areas. The UN sent survey teams to study ways of combating Sunn pest beetles, but no practical work had started.
     ICRC was allowed to visit the liberated area. It donated some medicine to the two Mujahideen hospitals in Sholgarand Khulm.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at have been able to offer medical services to the local people. They have established two hospitals and several clinics. These hospitals are supplied with medicine donated by Western and Arab relief organizations in Peshawar. Most of the doctors and nurses working in Mujahideen hospital and clinics are local people. There are a few doctors from Kabul. Some Arab doctors are also help. One of Jami'at’s hospitals was founded by a MSF, a french relief organization, in the early years of Jehad.
     Jami'at Islami has opened more than 100 primary schools; 40 of them are funded by Peshawar-based organizations. One of the schools in Sholgar has 400 students. Recently two primary girl's schools have also opened. Jami'at has opened some madrasas and plans to open a new madrasa with 300 students .in Sholgar.
     The Mujahideen control all of Keshinda, Aaq Kooprek, Chaikent anc Shoor Taipa and most of each of the other districts. The regime presence in these districts is limited to control of a few villages.
     The Kabul regime fully controls
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page Q
 the city of Mazar and exercises partial control over some districts. It has two air bases and one military division in Mazar. The paramilitary units of KHAD and police are also operating in the province. They are assisted by an addition force of 5000 local militiamen.
     The Kabul regime accords high importance to Mazar. The city is close to the Soviet border and has become a transit point for military and non-military supplies brought from the Soviet Union. When the Soviet Union was about to complete the withdrawal Of their troops, the Kabul regime was preparing the city for a possible transfer of the capital from Kabul to Mazar.
     A university was opened and defenses of the city were beefed up by establishing more security posts around the city and enlarging the airports in Mazar: Mazar is now protected by thee rows of security posts. Since the surrounding areas have no cover, the posts prevent the Mujahideen from slipping into the city.
     The border town of Hairatan, 60 kilometers north of Mazar, is a busy town. The Soviets have a consulate in Hairatan where many Soviets work.
     The Kabul regime has SCUD missile launch sites in Mazar and Hairatan and there are many Soviet military advisors in the city to help the regime army.
     The Sayyed of Kayan's group tried to get a foothold in Mazar-i-Sharif by offering large sums of money. It was able to create some tribal battalions in Samangan. Its offer attracted many regime personnel from the army, KHAD and police from Balkh Province. This made the army and KHAD angry and as a result of an armed clash, the Sayyed of Kayan's militias were forced out of Samangan and Balkh.
     Jawzjani and Gelam Jam militia groups have been used in Mazar but they oppose the Mujahideen.
     Groh-i-Kar, a communist faction in coalition with Najib has some influence in the city of Mazar. The Khalqis have suffered setbacks in Mazar due to purges in the wake of Tanai's coup.
     The Kabul regime has adopted a defensive posture. While it avoids military confrontation, it is very active in subversive activities aimed at buying qff commanders and spreading discord between different ethnic groups and religious sects.
     Despite all the difficulties, people in Mazar support the Mujahideen in general and Jami'at in particular. They are committed to Jehad and believe in the liberation of Afghanistan from control of the communists.
     Hidayatullah, an ex-Soviet soldier; who had converted to Islam and fought the communists alongside the Mujahideen, died in a mine explosion on February 28 in Baghran District, Helmand Province, Commander Abdul Wahid reported. Four Mujahideen were also wounded in the incident and the truck carrying them was destroyed.
     The martyred ex-Soviet soldier was captured by the Mujahideen some years ago in Delaram District, Farah Province. He converted to Islam, was renamed Hidayatullah and married a local girl.
     He was actively involved in Jehad against the Soviets and the Kabul regime and was in charge of logistics for Commander Abdul Wahid , the most powerful Jami'at commander in Helmand.
                                                                                                              Hidayatullah was bom in the Ukraine and was mechanic of Soviet weapons. He spoke Pushtu fluently and had learned the basics of Islam. He I
 read Holy Quran regularly. He blended with local people so well that an outsider might take him for a local resident. He accompanied Commander Abdul Wahid to Quetta once, where nobody recognized him as a Russian.
     When he met a Western journalist, he sent a letter to his family inviting them to visit him in the liberated areas of Afghanistan. He has a mother and a sister. He loved his mother and wanted to encourage her to accept Islam, his new religion, which he adored.
     Hidayatullah remembered his dog the rabbits and sheep that he had left behind in the Soviet Union, and sometimes told stories about them to his fellow Mujahideen. In Afghanistan, he had bought two-milk cows.
     Mujahideen say that his Afghan wife is pregnant and very soon Martyr Hidayatullah will have a son or daughter.
Friendship Treaty' is coyer for aggression
                                                             From page (4)
     The people of Afghanistan have suffered as a result of the Soviet Union's proximity, and regret their past relations with that country, because they led Afghanistan to its present crisis.
     There are no people-to-people good feelings between Afghans and Soviets. The horror stories of the suppression of Central Asian Muslims and destruction of their rich Islamic culture created enough bad feeling among ordinary Afghans towards the Soviet system. Some decades later, Afghans themselves experienced brute force at the hands of the Red Army in a decade-long war of liberation. The past does not leave any room for good feelings by Afghans towards the Soviets.
     It is true that Afghan relations with the Soviets were established long before the communist takeover, but the Soviet side misused the relationship to export communist revolution to an Islamic country, first through economic and military aid and later by force. The Soviet Union justified its 1979 invasion of Afghanistan using the articles of this ■Friendship Treaty'.
     Afghan Mujahideen do not recognize any of the treaties singed or renewed by the communists because their government is illegal, and Afghanistan was under occupation of the Red Army when the agreements woe signed.
     The future relations of Afghanistan with its neighbors, including the Soviet
 Union, will be based on equality. The Soviets will not be in a position to dictate their terms to an Islamic government in a free Afghanistan.
     The Soviet Union wants to maintain the status quo so that all the concessions it has extracted from the communists in Kabul remain intact This explains the degree of Soviet support for the Kabul regime, despite problems at home.
Rabbani meets with UK, US diplomats
    Prof. Rabbani and some other Mujahideen leaders met with Mark Lennex-Boyd, British parliamentary under-secretary for foreign affairs, on February 25 at the British High Commission in Islamabad. Different aspects of the Afghan problem came under discussion.
    The Jami'at leader also met with Ambassador Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, on February 9 in Islamabad. The current political and military situation came under discussion.Tomsen was on one of his routine visits to Pakistan to evaluate the situation.
    Due to the security situation aris ing from the Gulf war, the meetings took place in Islamabad rather than Peshawar.
 AFGHANews Vol 7, No 6, March 15,1991, page ©
From the Kabul press
 Exchange rates
 Summary of exchange rates of some currencies with Afghani at the beginning of February in Kabul:
  One US dollar for 795 Afs. one Deutsch mark for 535 Afs.
  One French franc for 163 Afs.
  One Indian rupee for 36 Afs.
  One Pakistani rupee for 33 Afs.
 Kabul-Teheran ties
  On. Iranian National Day the Najibullah regime called for further improvement in relations between Cabul and Teheran . Regime officers atteqped the reception, held in the Iranian Embassy in Kabul, to celebrate the occasion.
  Regime papers published photos of the Iranian leaders and printed articles about the relations between the two countries. "Payam," the official organ of the ruling' Watan Party (former PDPA), wrote that there was no obstacle to improving relations between bran and Afghanistan.
  The paper said the current improvement in cultural and humanitarian relations should be extended to other areas. Iran is in a position to use its influence to help find a political solution of the problem, the paper added. It suggested that Iran take part in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
  Another regime paper wrote that the two countries had both opposed imperialism, an indirect reference to the United States, and had been the victims of wars of aggression.
 UN trout stolen
  The state-run trout farm in Qargha Dam, about 10 kilometers outside Kabul, has been plundered by regime army and militiamen, according to Nawa-i-Subh, a paper published in Kabul.
   The trout farm, run by the regime ministry of agriculture, was established with financial assistance from the UN. The UN had invested $100,000 in the farm.
   The farm was about to enter its production phase, when the soldiers and militimen started to catch the trout Sack of trouts were brought to the market in Kabul for sale.
   The ministry officials had asked the
 army to stop its men from destroying the farm but no action was taken.
 The paper said a UN official drove to the dam and witnessed the theft of trout by regime soldiers by his own eyes.
 The headquarters of the regime's 8th division is nearby in Paghman.
 50% of students fail
 More than half of the students of Kabul University failed the final examinations which ended on January 26, according to a paper published in Kabul.
 Of 6357 students, 3570 failed. The failed students will be given another chance to pass the examinations if their scores are above a certain level. A professor said some students bring letters from government officials authorizing them second and third chances on exams, which is against the rules of the university.
   The paper said the students of the university accuse professors of taking bribes. The professors reject these allegations as rumors spread by students who want to pass without understanding the subject matter.
   The Kabul regime has refused to close the offices of Watan party (formerly PDPA) youth organizations and "friendship rooms” - political meeting and indoctrination halls - in schools and colleges.
 Kabul sends fruit
Council teachers attend seminar
    A seminar to introduce teachers to new methods of teaching completed its work in Panjshir on March 4.
    The seminar, organized by the Education Committee of the Central Zone of the Supervisory Council, had three phases. A total of 400 teachers from different districts of Parwan, Kapisa and the area north of Kabul participated in the seminar. The seminar began on December 6 of last year.
Rabbani welcomes freedom of Kuwait
    The leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, has congratulated his excellency Shaikh Jabir as-Sabah, the Amir of the brotherly people of Kuwait, for the liberation of their country from Iraqi , occupation. He has prayed for the safety of Muslims and their lands.
*
   Children in Kiev, USSR, enjoyed eating Afghan pomegranates donated by the Kabul regime for victims of the Chernobyl disaster, regime media reported.
   The distribution of 10 tons of pomegranates and other Afghan fruit flown to Kiev began on February 9.
   This was the second shipment of fruit sent to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. In the summer a planeload of Afghan grapes had been flown to Kiev.
   Chernobyl's nuclear reactor exploded in 1986, posing a threat to the lives of thousands of people in the area.
   The Kabul regime has been generous in providing food assistance to its Soviet comrades since the disaster took place. The regime also has donated fruit to earthquake victims in Tajikistan.

    fiFQHRNam
                               | withei a. , to Hi
             4
   \aoaHosK 'UCuheAA.
 *

                                              tHeCp us puBCisft AfQZ&lfSletus!
                                          TUase send your donations to the following account num6er:
           jnHA'D Account O^p. 735-37 5Ca6i6 ‘BanFLtd.
                                              ‘Ichkfd CBala, Ttshazoar •Pakistan