1 IN THE WAKE OF ALMIOHTT ALLAH |
AFGH ANnews
               A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                   POST OFFICE DDK 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                        VOL. Ill, NO. 19. 1/10/1907.
                             AFGHAN ISSUE AND THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
 The Afghan issue is one of the topics which the General Assembly ▼ill discuss during ^ its current session. The Soriets and its allies have been working hard since the last' session to turn the number of votes to their favor. In the past seven years the general assembly has passed resolutions calling for the withdrawal of foreign troops (Soviets) from Afghanistan by an absolute majority.
 The Soviets started a political offensive in Afghanistan at the beginning of the current year under the name of National Reconciliation (NR). Soviet leaders softened their tone and tried to give the impression that they were willing to withdrew their troops if certain conditions were met.
 The aim of this near policy eras tvo fold. On one hand they vented to broaden the base of the regime and weaken the position of the Resistance . On the other hand they aranted to improve their political image outside and pose themselves as traditional peace lovers.
 As far as inside the country is concerned this policy failed to achieve its aims. It did not unite the different Communist factions, could not lure back 'frustrated refugees' and could not create a broad-based regime loyal to the Soviets. The Soviets understand about the failure of this policy more than anybody else.
 War has continued in Afghanistan. Since they have announced the cease-fire thousands of people have been killed, hundreds of villages have been destroyed and a large number of Afghans have continued to leave their country.
 All the above show that the situation inside the country has not changed and the enemy plans have failed. The Soviets and their puppets are in a much weaker political and military position than in the past.
 The Soviets open and secret lobbying aimed at minimizing the political cost of their invasion, continued during the current year. Several delegations from the puppet regime were sent to Third World countries. Making use of every opportunity Soviet leaders have tried to highlight the achievements of NR. India the founding member (I) of the NA Movement has been active in support of this political compaign and lobbies for the Soviets and their puppets. Mr. Mugabe the current chairman of the NA movement bent under pressure from the Soviets and even established ties with the puppet regime in Kabul. Because of these factors the Soviets expect less votes than previous years in favor of the resolution which ask for the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan.
 Afghan Mujahideen as usual will send a delegation to New York to lobby their cause. This time the delegation will be led by Younis Khaiis, the current spokesman of the Alliance. The problem with the Resistance is that it has not paid fhll attention to the problem and has not been active opposing the Soviets and their puppets activities in the Third World countries. On top of this while the illegal puppet regime in Kabul is a member of the UN. the Afghan Resistance is not even given a chance to present its case to the world body.
 During the current session the wbrid body is facing a real test. Taking into account the facts that the Soviet Army is still in Afghanistan, the Soviets have not taken practical steps in implementing previous resolutions passed bym the General Assembly and the
RFGHRH HEMS VOL.Ill, HO.19, 1/10/ 190? PR6E2
 so-called National Reconciliation program has been rejected by Afghans, will the General Assembly pass a strong resolution calling for the withdrawal of Soviet troops or soften its previous resolutions to delight an aggressor?
 The resolutions of the UN in the past have been soft and were not naming the Soviet Union as the aggressor. It will be a tragedy if nor the Soviets' propaganda softens the tone of the resolutions further or there is a considerable decrease in the number of votes supporting the resolution. The less political pressure on the Soviets the less interested they will be in finding a real political solution to the problem they have created,
                                     NEWS
                                   FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                 PUSHGHOR GARRISON RETREATED
 The enemy fled from Pushghor and Dahan-i-Shaba in the evening of September 19 and now has taken positions in Yaka-Toolof Omarz.
 The reasons for the enemy's withdrawal are manifold. First of all, the enemy has failed in its plan for "Block Warfare". Over a long period of time, the enemy could not succeed in making the Panjshiri people return to their villages, in forming militia troops, in keepias the Mujahideen busy and wearing them- down, in preventing the organizational work of Mujahideen outside Panjshir , and in stopping the war outside Panjshir, especially in the Salang.
 Secondly, the daily "attrition war" waged by the Mujahideen inflicted heavy casualties on the enemy, without it being able to do anything about it.
 Thirdly, the enemy seems to have learned about the Mujahideen's latest plan to attack the garrisons in Paishghor,Shaba and Tanbana.
 The above factors caused the enemy a great defeat in its general plan in Panjshir.
 It should be added that in Pushghor garrison the 444 commando unit of the Kabul regime vas positioned. Once before, in the summer of 1985, it was captured by the Mujahideen. Af that time, the Mujahideen seized 400 soldiers and officers along with their weapons.
 Pushghor is located about 50 Km. inside the main Panjshir valley. The present number of enemy troops in Pushghor Garrison and adjacent posts was estimated around 500 men, mainly DRA.
 The Mujahideen's victories in capturing the Farkhar, Nahreen, and Kalafgan garrisons, as well as the continous pressure on itself, had made the Pushghor garrison fearful that it will be an easy target for the Mujahideen.
flFGHRH HEUS VOL.Ill, HO. 19, 1/10/ IW7 PBGE 3
 The withdrawal of the enemy troops from Pushghor is considered a big victory for the Mujahideen and a sign of weakness of the enemy.
                                            KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 17/9/1987. A report received through a phone call from our Office in Quetta says that Mujahideen of Kandahar under the command of Mulla Naqib conducted a massive preplaned operation on Kandahar Airport, south of the city. The attacked was launched from a hill called Zakir Shah situated 3 km from the Airport. Different heavy and light weapons including BM-12, BM-1,82mm rifles, were used by the Mujahideen in shelling the Airport.
 Hours after the operation, the Mujahideen received news of the enemy casualties* through their contacts from the Airport stating that 8 military aircrafts lying in the Airport were damaged by the Mujahideen shelling. The report adds that 30 Russian soldiers were either killed or wounded in addition to 9 government soldiers who were captured alive. Three Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
 In retaliation, the Russians bombed Arghandab district for three consecutive days. No casualties has been reported. ,
 12/9/1987. Mujahideen of Kandahar attacked a joint Russian-DRA force between Charbagh and Arghandab areas. Vithin hours of severe fighting, 30 Russian soldiers were kilied,40 puppet soldiers were captured and three tanks were destroyed.
 Latter on the Russian airforces resorted to retaliatory bombardment of civilian targets in Charbagh and Char Qala. No casualties have been reported.
                                             PAKTIKA PROVINCE
 3/9/1987. Mujahideen of Katawaz district ambushed an enemy armoured column which was heading towards Katawaz from Ghazni province. As a result, two tanks and one military truck were destroyed and 27 puppet soldiers were killed. Three Mujahideen were martyred and another wounded.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE .
 23/9/1987. A report received through a phone call from our Office in Quetta says that a well-known government militia commander, namely Arbab Ghani, from Kushk district, surrendered to Herat Mujahideen along with 2000 of his armed militia men. They brought with them more than 1,000 guns of different types, a large quantity of ammunition and food stuff and about 3 million Afgs.
 In retaliation, Russians bombarded Kushk district and the fierce fighting between Mujahideen led by Ismael Khan and enemy forces is going on. About 5.000 Mujahideen including some units from Badghis led by Commander Nik Mohammad have participated in the fighting. Still there is no report about the casualties.
                                             FARTAB PROVINCE
 2/9/1987. The enemy air and ground forces attacked the surrounding areas of Faryab city Besides severe bombardment causing heavy destruction to nearly 3,000 houses in the. «rea, Russians have used various kinds of chemicals and those affected are mainly suffering from skin diseases in the head as well as frequent body itching. About 17 mosques were destroyed in eight different villages.
 Severe clashes between Mujahideea and enemy forces have reportedly lasted 20 days during which about 250 enemy soldiers were killed among whom were a Commander of KHAD and militia commander namely UbaiduHah including some other officers. About 10 Kiashinkoves were also seized from the enemy.
RFGHRH HEMS UCL.III, HO,19, 1/10/ 1907 F3GE 4
                                            NANGARHAR PROVINCE
 1/9/87: In an operation on Nangarhar Airport and city. Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers and officers and wounded 18 others. A tank was also destroyed in the operation. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                                INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOQD
                                                    (Part II!)
 Following is the last part of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masood, the famous Commander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the Political Office of J.I .A in Worsaj sub-district of Takhar province on July 21.1987. Part 1 of the interview was on the war situation and part II on the political solution ot the Afghanistan isrue.
 Q I would like to hear something about the achievements of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) from you who are the head of the Council.
 A. The first achievement of the SCN has been the elimination of internal divisions and differences and the creation of unity among Jamial Mujahideen. In th3 past there was no cooperation and coordination in the activities of Jamiat members in different provinces. Sometimes, even some small disputes would arise. As a first step, the SCN eliminated this state of affairs by the creation of a united cecter.The establishment of such a center for five provinces is not a small task.
 The second step has been to organize various regions according to certain rules and principles. Fron our point of view, there are two types of regions: (1) mountainous regions favorable for bases, and (2) flat areas. The SCN was able to organize well its mountainous regions all the way from Badakhshan to the North of Kabul and Paghman in a relatively short time. Again the fact that the SCN has been able U) establish safe and strong base-? in these sensitive mountainous regions is a great achievement.
 As a third step, freu a political point of view, the SCN was able to ec'nblirh regional unions among different Mujalideen organizations (except for Hezb.Iolami in some cases) in Kundvz, Tekhvi- and B&gMon. This will allow Muj&hilaon forces to face the enemy together ad to undertake joint operations. This is unprecedented. Moreover, the SCN fans pkyed a role in settling the differences among other Mujahideen Organizations. VI' ’rever there is some problem, representatives of the SC.J vi!l solve it and prevent inlarnrl dashes.
 From a military point of view, r*s I indicate earlier, our various bases are completely ready for defence against Rusriaa attacks.. That was not so in fbl past. More importantly, not only each bare vili defend itself individually, but other tases will launch simultane us attacks. This shows centralisation and coordination in the war.
 Another achievement of the SCN has been the conquest of the three main enemy garrisons in less ♦ban a year. First the Ferkhar garrison was captured and the area
 liberated, then t j Nehrin Garnron, and recently the Kalafgan Garrison.
 Again in military field, the SCN succeeded in training a cadre for fu _\ug an Islamic Army in the ft ur \ Members of this cadre are generally highly ed"= *9d, have good characters, have received higher military trainings, and have participated in the armed Jehad in t?:-i past seven'i years. Such individuals are gathered in Central Units and are trained as future commanders and officers so that they could play a basic role in the establishment of an Islamic Army.
 From an economic point of view, the SCN provided economic assistance to the people last year when we had a drought. It also provided loans to the farmers so that they could cultivate their lands. It also provided help to internal refugees.
flFGHRH MEWS UOl.lll, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1967 PAGES
 More importantly, last year the SCN could stop migration of thousands of families to Pakistan. It assured them that it could provide them with help and that it could defend them against Russian attacks.
 Moreover, from a cultural and educational point of view, the SCN has established a new educational system in its bases (and other areas under its control). As you can see, in each base tens of schools have been established, schools are more crowded and active than in the past, and their activities are well-organized.
 Q, As we can see, you are always busy and working hard. This is the case while you are responsible only for five provinces. If some more provinces are added to the SCN in the future you will have extremely limited time. I think the reason for this situation is the fact that Mujahideen have not been able to get a cadre of skilled and expert persons in different fields in spite of eight years having passed from the beginning of their * struggle. Would you, who are the head of the SCN and have led the Mujahideen, explain -whether you have not wanted to train such a cadre or you have not been able to o so?
 A. In my mind, it is not correct to say there is not a cadre and that everything is done by an individual. At present, there is a division of labor among us (in the SCN),. With the mercy of God, there are cadres in various fields, and each one carries out its activities independently. In the military field, there is little need for me in the future. Except for my providing a design or a plan, other brothers could do all other things themselves.
 In particular, our Central Units are at a level in which they can design a plan and implement it completely by themselves. In the military field, our needs are small, and we have a sufficient number of skilled commanders.
 In regard to political activities and other affairs, we have some skilled brothers and also cadres are under training. In the cultural Held, although we badly need skilled individuals, there are some brothers who could carry out the task without my presence.
 Undoubtedly, at the level of Afghanistan as a whole, there is a great need for skilled individuals; and I consider this lack as our main shortcoming.
 But it is not true that there is no cadre in the SCN. You can meet the members of the Council and see that most of them are highly educated. We do not have as many skilled people as we wish we had, but it does not mean there are none at all.
 Q. You are a member of J.I.A How do you evaluate Jamiat's position among other Islamic parties in Afghanistan.
 A Undoubtedly, I am a member of J.I A. Naturally, anyone belonging to an organization considers that organization better and more reasonable than others. Thus,
 I consider J.I.A more reasonable and more effective than other parties. Jamiat's policies are moderate. It has avoided ext; ,mism Jamiat's goals and programs have been truly Islamic. Its activities inside and outside Afghanistan have been based on reason. Jamiat has always prepared the ground for the growth of its members. It has supported and developed positive works. These are the positive points we see in J.I.A.
 Q Some people claim you want to establish a new Islamic Organization and utilize J.I.A only as a source of supply, What do you have to say about this?
 A. In my view, anyone who wants to further divide the Mujahideen commits a great treason. I believe every body could serve (Jehad) within the party to which he belongs.
 If there are problems and shortcomings in a party, and if the person is a sincere muslim, he will try to remove the problems and shortcomings by his efforts and hard work. If a person thinks since a certain party has shortcomings, he should establish a new organization, past experience shows that such an action would not benefit the Jehad It would, rather, seriourly harm Mujahideen. For example, prof Sayyaf could not
RFOHRH HEUS VIOL,III, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1967 PR6E6
succeed in spite of all the material and spiritual capabilities he possessed. By forming a new organization.ProfSayyaf not only failed to do anything positive for Jehad, but he further divided the Mujahideen and probably damaged his own prestige as veil.
In short, in my mind anyone vho wants to create a new division within Jamist, whatever his reasons or excuses may be, he is committing a treason to Afghanistan's Jehad, I have never had such thoughts, neither will I allow anyone else to create such a situation within Jamiat.
                               AFGHANS DEMONSTRATED IN NEW YORE
 Hundreds of Afghans demonstrated in front of the UN building on 23 September to protest against the Soviet occupation of their country. Their demonstration coincided* with the Soviet minister's speech in the General Assembly. Demonstrators demanded the end of the genocide of Afghan people carried out by the Soviets and the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Islamic and non-aligned Afghanistan.
                                 NAJIB'S EFFORTS DOOMED TO FAILURE
 The Puppets boast about their achievements in military and political fields but in reality they are weaker in both fields than ever.
 Vhen the Soviets dictated the National Reconciliation to the puppets in January 1987 the first requirement for any possible success was the formation of a united front composed of all Communist factions who were collaborating with the Soviets.
 Najib changed his tone and tried to convince his rival comradeslle told them it was for the benefit of all of them if they were united. At first, the Khalq faction came close to him but within a few weeks Khaiqis asked too much from Najib so their Honey-moon ended. Najib also worked among other factions like Shola, Setam MiliXhaiq Ear gar etc. but was only able to buy off one cr two of their leaders. The result was disastrous both for the regime and for the Soviets. Now each of the previous faction are divided into two (including Ffrcham Najib's ern faction). On top of all this Soviets have created a new faction which works for thea directly.
 Factional rivalries have caused many headaches for the Spviets. Night letters are being spread by each faction against the others. The interesting point of all this is the way the Soviets deal with all the factions. The night-letters of different factions are printed in government-controlled printing house with the help of Soviet advisors.
 The Soviets are disappointed about the performance of Najib and the ever-increasing factional dispute enong Communists.
 A good evidence of lack of confidence among the puppet is the late appointment of Najib as the head of Revolutionary Council, Najib who was offering governmental posts for his opponents finally occupied the ceremonial post of presidency.
 Some consider this as a sign of strengthening his position but factional rivalries and lack of confidence in his friends has forced him to take such a step. Najib's military and Political efforts have failed and this has pushed him closer to the end of his political
 life.
                         THE STORY OF A 12 YEAR OLD KHAD AGENT
                                  (Reporter: Abdul Hafiz Mansur)
A 12 year old KHAD member lives with Mujahideen in Panjshir. He says he studied about spying for four months in "Poineers' Palace" in Tashkand,
flFGHRH MENS OOL.III, HO. 19, 1/10/ 1W7 PB6E 7
 The name of the child is Mohammad Zaher. In response to a question about his studies in Tashkand he said he studied topography, physiognomy and photography. He had three lady teachers there; one Afghan, one Tadzhik and one Russian.
 Zaher was wearing new clothes on Eid day and seemed happy. He described his trip to the Soviet Union as follows:
 They took us by bus to Hairatan (a port on the border between Afghanistan and Russia). From there we were taken to Tashkand by plane. Altogether we were 18 groups (of children). Each group consisted of 13 persons. I was the head of my group."
 About his spying studies in Kabul, he was in fourth grade, he said he was sent to the 'poineers' Palace" to be trained as a spy. His teachers were an Afghan by the name of Ubaid" and a Russian.                                                    t
 Zaher was especially taught about recognizing the people from Panjshir When asked how he recognizes them, he replied "They are disciplined, have fresh faces, look active., and while speaking they use "Alai and Bale” (words used only in colloquial Panjshiri
 Persian).
 When asked about his job after studying in Tashkand, Zaher said he was sent to Ghorband to prepare maps and collect information about Panjshiri Mujahideen there. He spent several months in Ghorband. and when he wanted to return to Kabul, a suspicious Mujahid asked him some questions. Zaher's contradictory responses led to his arrest. After a while he was sent to Panjshir.
 I talked to Zaher when he had just returned from Kabul. He is originally from Maimana (Faryab province). His father, Mirza Murad, owns a carpet store in Kabul After two years, Mujahideen allowed Zaher to go to Kabul and visit his family
 He described his trip to Kabul as the following: "1 spent only a few days at home. My father wanted me to go to the "Palace; report what I had seen in Panjshir and Ghorband, and collect my two year's salary. He also asked me not to go to the Mujahideen-held territories any more and just practice topography in Kabul. But the good treatment of my Mujahid brothers did not let me accept my father's advice. I left home with the pretence of going to the barber s shop and returned to Panjshir."
 During the two years he has spent with the MujahideeQ, Zaher has learned the Holy Quran with its translation.
 I asked him when he would reunite with his family. He put his head down and whispered," I am not going back to Kabul". If my parents are muslims, they will come here. Otherwise, I do not want to be with them.”
 Zaher is one of the thousands of Afghan children who have been taken to the Soviet Union to be trained as spies. He is one of the hundreds of spying children who have been captured red-handed in the course of their duties.
 In accordance with the teachings of their religion, the muslim Afghan Mujahideen do not kill any children, even if they are spies. Zaher is one such a child for whom what law has provided is a new life.
                                                    mm*
                            JEHRD TILL IPICTORY