AFGHAN
NEWS
A Biweekly Bulletin Of* Jaini’at Islami
   Post: Box No. 264, Peshawar - Pakistan. 1 Vol. II, No. S , 1 / 4 / X9S6.
                       C^PIONS_OF_BIG_LIES
    Oi the 68th birthday of the Red Army Viladimir Govorov, Deputy Minister of Defence for the USSR said: " Soviet Array and navy have never and will never be used against pther peoples".
    In fact what the Soviet army has done in the past has been agai-nst other nations and it has interfered in their affairs. Several national movements have been crushed in Soviet block countries under the name of defending a socialist country against an imaginary outside threat. Afghanistan is a living example , for six years the Soviet atmy has been engaged in a ruthless, immoral and unjust war against the people of Afghanistan. This aggression has caused the death of half a million people and the displacement of more than 4 million refugees. The Soviet army has destroyed villages, degraded holy places and looted the property of the people.
    The Soviet army has proved to be one of the most barbaric,immoral and indisiplined armies of the world. They do not'respect anything and do not spare the lives of any inhocent civilian or even the animals . They do not believe in any values so they do not know any limit for their atrocities.
    The Soviet leaders may say any thing and can give hollow promises
to,the world. But the facts reveal their true nature.
  .*•
   . Before the invasion of Afghanistan the Soviets could deceive some simple-minded people, but after seven years of involvement in a small peaceful, non-aligned neighbouring country it is difficult to hide behind slogans.
                                        2-----
                                  NEWS
                             ©HOOK PROVINCE Jan-l2-ig&6.                                .
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Tolak district which is located close to Sheendand Airbase.. Mujahideen resisted the invading forces. Eight tanks and APCs, two oil-tankers and one truck were destroyed either by land mine or RPG fire. Twelve Soviet soldiers were killed and 4 DRA soldiers joined Mujahideen with their weapons. Ten Mujahids were martyred,
 Jan=15^86'
 Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Tolak district. As a result of Mujahideen fire seven Communists ware killed. Mujahideen captured 5 guns. One Mujahid was martyred during the operation. Mujahideen are facing a shortage of food ir. this area.
 3-12-85                                                '
 A late report from Ghoor say* that the enemy forces' launched a massive attack on Ghoor province. The invading forces which was compo-sed of several hundred AFVs and was protected by Helicopters and Jets, moved from Shindand, a Soviet base in the west of Afghanistan. The aim of the enemy was to re-establish Sftahrak district headquarters, Mujahideen from different parties joined together to attack the enemy,
 A large number of enemy armoured cars and trucks were destroyed. Casualties among the enemy soldiers ware heavy. Sixty DRA soldiers joined Mujahideen. Four Helicopters were shot down. Unfortunately Mujahideen from the area do not have cameras to photograph the helicopters which were -Shot down.                                      ,        , •
 It should be mentioned that Ghoor province has six districts and one sub-district. Four districts and one sub-district are completely liberated and the enemy has a minor presence" in the two other districts. Mujahideen'and the people in the Ghoor are facing a shortage of food.
 Jan-2-86 '
 Fourteen Soviet Jets bombed Mujahideen controlled areas of Chekh-Cha-ra^ the provincial capital of Ghoor, for one hour. They dropped 400 different, bombs including cluster and incendary. Two Mujahids were martyred and four others injured. A large number of cattle belonging to.poor people of the area were killed as a result of this bombardment. The weather is cold and aerial bombardments occur frequently. The-.people are facing great difficulties-
 This report was written by Ghulara Haboani Ghafoori Mujahideen Comman-
der in the area. Feb-1-86
KAP ISA^paoyINCE
 After a revere artillary bombardment of the area, the enemy armoured units wanted to pass Abdull-i-3urj bridge. The purpose of this attack was to establish security posts along the road from Bagram Air 3ase ..
 to Muhmoud Raqi (the provincial capital of Kapisa province) and from there to         • Textile Mills of Gulbahar at the mouth of the Panj-
                                              t            *
 shir valley.
 The engray attack continued for six successive days. The intensity qf the attacks were unprecedented. Fifteen tanks, APCs and trucks we*® destroyed by RPG, Recoilless rifles, mortars and jnines. After six $ays the enemy was forced to retreat from their newly established posts.
 One hundred fifty enemy (Soviet & DRA) soldiers were killed or woqnded. Two Muijahids were martyred . Losses among civilians and material damage was great.
 It should be noted that Abdulla Burj is located on the Panjshir River near the Bag ram Air Base.’ Mujahideen from this area are led by a very brave Commander, Mohammad Shaheen who has been fighting for seven years. This Commander, besides being a good soldier has won the hearts of his people and this is why he is able to defeat the enemy in such'a flat area and so close to the Soviet base.
                                         KABUL PROVINCE
 Feb-4-86_
 The enemy landed troops in Jawzak area of Kohi Safi. Mujahideen clashed with the enemy. The enemy had some losses. As a result of aerial bombardments which followed the attack, two Mujahids were wounded.
 Jan-25--a.6-                               “
 Mujahideen from Jamiat Nazar attacked an enemy post in Charbolak district. Nineteen •oamy soldiers (DRA) were captured along with ten
 guns. The dost ms destroyed.
 Febr14::§6
 Mujahideen captured two intact tanks in'Choulgar district. They also
 captured on® PK Machine gun- two AK~47s , one Carabine gun and some
 ammunition. One puppet regime officer was captuted and one hundred soldiers were killed.
 Mujahideen burnt the tanks after disassembling its Daschk and Grenove madhine guns. Ifatfahid»«n ar« not able to use tanks in the area because they are an easy target for the enemy air force.
                       V/AR PiIOTOG^P^t BY APG^S
 Every body knows the importance of photography in reporting a war. In the past some photo-journalists have gone to Afghanistan and have done a good job in explaining the situation. But the number of these people are limited and they can only go for a short time. Many events go unrecorded.
 The solution.to the problem is to involve Afghans themselves. Each party has a committee for this type of work. If they get the right type of equipment and material and if some Afghans are trained for work the result would be remarkable.
 1 have a little experience in photography and in the past I have sent some young Afghans with simple cameras and two days of training. The pictures they sent back were so good I could not believe it was the work of these young people.
 The-second pjpoblem ,;ih .this/••wo^'i*' Tiow to circulate what they bring fidm irfside'. i know of .thousgftds of good phonographs which are locked in boxes for several years because nobody knows how to use them (except a few which are published in party papers).
 My suggestion is if simple cameras are provided with good films (cpl-oufed, black & white) and they are given to selected people from different areas, after a few hours of instruction and practice one can see the result in a few months. There will always be a need to have jirofe-ssional photographers in Afghanistan to cover the action there,.
 Among other things, the Soviets send an enormous amount of wheat to their spldiers and to meet the needs of the puppet regime. Since the Soviets do not grow sufficient wheat they buy large amounts from the United States,
 This American wheat is sent to Afghanistan and the regime, like other things, uses this wheat for political ends for example when Soviets and their puppet attack areas, after the destruction of the houses , they distribute wheat to show their concern foF the poor people of Afghanistan. As when western trucks, bought by the Soviets, were used for the transportation of the invading force in 1979, the wheat sold to them is being either consumed by the soldiers or is being used for the political purpose in the occupied Afghanistan.
 It is interesting for the American government's farmers to have a market to sell their products, but they should keep in mind that their trade is harming the Afghan nation and is serving the cause of the occupiers and their puppets.
 Indians are helping the puppet regime of Babrak in training its military personnel. In the past Mujahideen had reported the involvement of some Indian officers in operations against the Mujahideen. All this is done while 150,000 Soviet soldiers have occupied parts of Afghanistan and have been fighting for more than six years.
 Indians military involvement in Afghanistan takes place while that country is still the chairman of non-aligned countries. This act undermines all the resolutions passed by the U.N, Islamic Conference and even the organization of non-aligned countries. This is an act of enmity towards a people who are busy in an unequal war agains thfe Soviet Union. The world opinion and Indian'people should put pressure oh Kajiv's gover cnfiient to stop its actions against the Afghan nation* This type of in*-/Olvemertt ridicules the claims of India that it pexsues an independent policy and its status as the chairman of the non-aligned movement. India should stop acting as the Soviets surrogates in Afghanistan.
A Biweekly Bulletin Of J&mi'at Islami Afghanistan Post Box IHo. 2(5 Peshawar - Pakistan Vol. II. No.            .  - / ^ y *1   ' ;
4/ 1986-
                                                                    %
                                 SOVIET PRESSURE OH PAKISTAN
     Pakistan is the host of more than three million refugees. The. government and people of Pakistan openly oppose the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The Pakistani opposition to the Soviet invasion bes-ides humanitarian. and Islamic solidarity with the people of Afghan-istan has another important reason. The occupation of Afghanistan by an expansionist-super-power is posing a real security risk for Pakistan . This is why Pakistan would like to see the freedom of Afghanistan restored and the Soviet forces go home.
     Pakistan’s political, moral and humanitarian position on Afghanistan has made the Soviets angry. Sometimes they threat Pakistan verbally and other times send their planes to bomb innocent civilians and fire shells inside Pakistan territory. The purpose of this is to put pressure on the government of Pakistan to change their present position on Afghanistan and talk directly with the puppet regime.
     In the past few months, the Soviets have intensified their activities to disturb the peaceful life of the Pakistanis and incite them against Afghan refugees. They bomb innocent places to kill people to create discontent among the people. They do all this now that Icartial
           Law has been ended and there is room for them to spread their rumors.
                             elements
     Some hidden pro-Soviet try to fan the fire to incite Pakistan citizens against Afghan refugees. This is the actual aim of the Soviets- to create an atmosphere of mistrust between the two people. Some elements preach this type of propaganda to serve their own domestic politics.
     What I want to say in this respect is that Afghan refugees are the guest of the government, and the people of Fakistan. The security of Fakistan is as important to us as the security of our homeland. We will always remain guests, and are not interested in the domestic politics of the host country. Some people who accuse refugees of interfering in Pakistan internal, politics are mistaken.s We have, a bigger problem to think about and that is the liberation of Afghanistan.
AFGHAN NEvIS
VOL. II, Mo. 7
1-4-1986
F-2
    Our Pakistani brothers should know we have not come to seek a better material life. No matter how beautiful a host country is and how kind its people are, it never takes the place of one's home,
    ^hat the Soviets are doing and preaching about refugees is aliped at the creation of misunderstandings between the Afghan Piihajexin (refugees and Faicistani Ansars (hosts). We have a common enemy, let us open our eyes and not be misled by their known and secret agents. The Soviets can not be the friend of any, body. The Afghanistan situation is a living example. What happend to Zahir, uawod, Taraki and Amin is a good lesson even for those who have a soft heart towards Soviet policies.
    When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan , the people of Afghanistan were expecting the world to put pressure on the Soviets to end their occupation. Resolutions were passed for the withdrawal of foriegn troops (they were diplomatic eno.ugh not mention the Soviets by name)*
    The Soviets 'have ignored all these resolutions and the war has continued for more than six years. The proximity talks are drawn out* The Soviets are using a delaying tactic to win the war v/hile the world focusses on the Geneva talks .Instead of helping our cause and decreasing the difficulties of millions of Afghans, theAe talks are now serving the purpose of the invaders and their puppets. The puppets can publicise on this and try to impose themselves on the people of Afgh-anistan with Soviet fire power and U.N diplomacy* From all the past meetings it seems that Cordovez's shuttle diplomacy is not unbiased*
He seems more convinged by the logic of a super power which has invaded an independent country than the argument of millions of suffering /Afghans who are trying to regain their freedom. The terrible suffering of the people of Afghanistan by the hand of the Soviets and and their puppets is confirmed by the U.N Special Commission for Human slights.
    On the ground the U.N is funding some health and educational pro-grames inside Kabul through EHO and UNESCO. UNESCO supports ah illit-racy program (Communist indoctrination classes) which i^ hurting us more. They make use of Soviet and Indian officers in these projects which is a double gain for the Soviets and their regional surrogate , India.
    No wise person can justify such aid. If>the U.N can not help us to
get bade our legitimate rights frora the invaders, she should not rub a
                 of
salt on the wound our people by giving support to the Soviet puppets in Afghanistan.
AFGHAN mm
3.r.asiaa&.
VOL. II, Mo. 7 •             1-4-X986
'WWWWW.WWIIIW'WWWWWlWMIWMUtwmmWWllWMWIWlfc,
                                                   £L§-SL§
                      S2YIU2I
F-3iUi
 Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the puppet regime post of HesArak district. Fighting continued from 4 pm to 12 pm, A building which wasIhs enemy post was destroyed and some Communists were killed or wounded.One Kujahid was martyred and three others wounded.
22-3-J3§
Mujahideen on their way to the Sharaali were attacked by the Soviets heliborne troops in Kolali area of Hesarak District. At dawn the planes bombed the area and 15 helicopters landed troops. A total number of 24 Kujahids were martyred. Twelve Soviet soldiers were also killed during the operation. These type of attacks are part of Soviet strategy of closing the supply routes of Mujahideen.
                           KABUL FROVINCB 26-2-36                     —------—-r——
Mujahideen of Janiat attacked the enemy post of Dargal, destroyed two tanks and the pos,t itself. Ho casualty figures for the enemy is given in the report, Mujahideen returned safely to their bases. Mujahideen also attacked Saroobi district headquarters and inflicted losses on the enemy. Two electric pylons were also destroyed by Mujahideen.
     It should be noted that Saroobi is located on the highway between Kabul and Jalalabad. In this area there are three hydroelectric power plants which provide electricity to Kabul city, Jamiat Commander in the area, Mohammad Anwar, has good relationship with all the parties in the district.
29-2-86
Tooran Ghulam Rasool a leading figure of government militia forces has been assassinated by Mujahideen from Jamiat in the city of Herat. Ghulam was an active and effective militia commander who has been helping Kabul puppet government for about two years. The report adds that Rasool’s murder will demoralise other militia commanders and will have a positive impact on Mujahideen.
Ghulam Rasoul was fighting against the Taraki regime. When Soviets .                                       of
invaaed he joined them and formed a lot,*posts in and around the city.
the number of his militia men reaches more than 2000. He was a ruthless person who led many offensives against Mujahideen, After his assassination Mujahideen captured 19 militia posts and a large amount of arms and ammunition,
1-3-86  .
Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked a. militia post in Taya village near the city of Herat. The militia leader named Yunous, was killed with 12 others and 50 militiamen with more than 50 guns were captured. Two liuja-hids were martyred and another was injured.
 AFGHAN NEWS_____VOL. II, Mo,  7
 1-4-19S6 ^    - - .
 During the current month (21 Feb-21 March) one militia commander named. IToor iihmad joined Mujahideen with 70 of his follov?ers. They brought
 their v/eapons with them and pledged to fight against the enemy.
 3-3-36   '                                           '
 A convoy of Mujahideen was attacked by enemy helicopters,near the Iran Afghan border in Ghooryan district. Two trucks full of food stuffs which Were on the way to Mujahideen bases were hit by rockets and took fire. The enemy also landed troops who faced Mujahideen 1 s resistance. No casualties of both sides is given yet,
 14-9-36
 Khuaja Mohammad an important Mujahid of Fanjshix was martyred when he was hit by avalanche in the mountains of Pushghoor. He and his brother Chah Nazar, joined the armed resistance in 1973. Shah Nazar a capable commander was martyred in 1934 along with 20 other Mujahideen who were caught in an ambush, Khuaja was very famous for his hard work and his abilities in organizing logistic missions in the mountainous snow-cove- . rd territories in Fanjshir. His death was a big loss for commander Has-soud.
 16-3-86
 SIXTEEN REFUGEES VBEE MARTYRED
 A truck full of refugees hit a land mine at Kuram agency of Pakistan*, a few kilometers, from Afghan border. Sixteen people were martyred.
 These-people were returning from a wedding ceremony in one of the refugee camps# This is one incident in a series of attacks against refugees and Pakistani targets planned by KGB. The purpose of these sabotage works which is directed against civilians is to create unrest amongst the population and force the Pakistani government to change its policy towards the occupying forces in Afghanistan. Soviets want to destabilize Pakistan by subversive activities, a policy which they have followed since the creation of Pakistan.
 1-3-86                      BAGHLAN  PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Andarab district attacked a militia post in Shashan side valley. Two militia men were killed. One Mujahid named Ibhammad Uoor was martyred during the operation.
                      ENBM7 OFFENSIVE IN NAJHRIN
 The combined^enemy forces launched their offensive on 6-2-1986, The enemy forces were composed of armoured units moving under the cover of helicopters. The purpose of the enemy was to attack Mujahideen bases in
 the area and carry usual search operations.
 Mujahideen under Abdul Hay, the Commander of Jamiat in Nahrin ambushed the enemy in a village called Mr&kash, a few kilometers away from Hah-rin garrison. Three tanks were destroyed either by mines or AFG fire.
 The next day the enemy wanted to capture the high ground around the gar-
 rison
AFGHAN MEWS

P-5
 1-4-1986
Mujahideen ambushed them. Two officers and three militia men were killed and the rest retreated.
Sr-feSG
They again tryed to capture the high ground this time they lost four men and two soldiers were captured. Mujahideen captured one Grenove iachinegun, 4 AK-47 and 2 T.T pistols, i&rir36 '
The enemy attacked the city. Before entering the city they were ambushed, The enemy lost one tank and 4 persons and retreated,
.3,?-;.2r36
Enemy forces moved toward Burka sub-district. Mujahideen ambushed the enemy forces in TawA Shakh, captured iO soldiers along with their weapons and killed three militiamen ... Eight civilians mainly women and children were killed in Tawashakh village.
13-2-36                             ‘ ,                  1
Mujahideen attacked enemy forces in 3urka with heavy weapons, but they ■ do not know any thing about the casualties. The enemy bombarded Fuldol village with artillary and 3M-21 rockets which caused the martyrdom of 3 civilians and the destruction of many of houses.
14r2-06
The enemy security post in Tawashakh was raided "by Mujahideen. Ten puppet" soldiers were killed or wounded and two captured.
1 5-2-86
The enemy retreated from Burka to Mahrin garrison and after heavy aerial bombardments attacked Douabi Mahrin area. Mujahideen resisted well and 20 Soviet-puppet soldiers were killed and 30 others were wounded. One civilian was killed and ore Mujahid was injured.Qrj 15-2-86 they retreated from Mahrin district without achieving any of their aims.
It should be noted that Mahrin is a stronghold of Mujahideen. The enemy presence in this district is limited to a 300 man garrison in Mahrin and a post in Burka. The enemy is confined in the garrison and has no control over the population. This area is free since 1979.
3-3-36
Mujahideen from Jamiat^captured one truck along with 5 puppet soldiers.
ip:;3r36
During a clash Mujahideen destroyed 12 tanks and three trucks in Dawlat' Abad District.
3-3-86 •
A militia post v?as destroyed by Mujahideen in Balkh district and all the 20 militia men stationed in the post were captured.
13-3-86
A building in East of side of koza (nli's tomb & mosque) was blown up by nine. Thirty Conunvmists were killed and the building was damaged.
F-6
KfGgyj^HEyS______/Sht 2J i„92—-Z_________1-431986
                                                                      iS2S5§£5S5SI.S52i§J^£S
Cn 15th March the enemy wanted to send a big convoy to.Khanabad district and Talaqan city (the provincial capital of Takhar province). Mujahideen resisted well and all fought together. Fifty tanks and trucks viere destroyed and 250 soldiers were killed, Mil Mujahideen groups cooperated and made the enemy suffer. According to informed sources, the type of fighting, coordination between Mujahideen and and the scale of enemy losses were unprecedented in the area. Fighting ended around 23rd of March.
                                            PhRTY_N§WS
Prof,3.kabbani leader of Jaraiat Islami Afghanistan sent a message' of condolence to the foriegn minister of Sweden on the occasion of the death of Prime Minister Palme. He called Palme a leader who defended oppressed people.
Prof.B.Rabbani sent a congratulatory message to Jacques Chirac on the occasion of his appointment as the prime minister of France.
On March 11th, Prof.B.Mabbani met a delegation of German MFs who had come to Up-to-date themselves about the situation in Afghanistan.
They ware briefed about the situation inside and the general, military-political situation in and around Afghanistan.
    On March 21st, the first day of Afghan new year, 10,000 people marched .in the streets of Stockholm to protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The demonstration was sponsored by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan and a large nuiaber of trade unions. Church organizations and political parties. The foriegn minister of.the Sweden spoke on the occasion. This shows a growing awareness about the just cause of the people of Afghanistan amongst the Swedish people.
    The late prime minister.of Sweden, Glaf -Palme, made an interview with "t.fghanistan-HYTT-1, the magazine; of the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan On Feb-7th, In this interview he expressed his concern about the suffering of the people of Afghanistan. He said that Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is a. clear violation of international laws. When he was asked why he does not take part in demonstrations against the Soviet .invasion when he took part in anti-America demonstrations against the the U.S America involvement in Vietnam. He said that now as a prime minister he has other opportunities to express his views.
AFGHAN N2WS
P-7
VOL,II, Mo. 7
 1-4-1936
 Ke said that there are similarities between Vietnam and Afghanistan,
 He'.called the Soviet invasion a historical mistake. He criticized the Soviets for their violation of human rights in Afghanistan,
 Afghan Hews thinks that Palme was more'outspoken against America in Vietnam them against Soviets in Afghanistan, Ke did not live longer enough to balance his 'actions but we hope his successors will do what he could not.
 The work on a new 50 minute documentary film will be finished verjr soon. The film, is made by an Australian journalist Chris Hook, who made two trips to: Afghanistan in 1934 and 1935, His film is about Mujahideen activities in Pamjshir valley and Paktia province.
 According to a. letter from our Tehran off ice, war-wounded Mujahids racing severe problems in the South-West of Afghanistan. The Iranian government is helping*them to some extent, but because of lack of equipment and facilities,cases which need sophisticated operations, can not be treated there *                                 ^
 It shbuld be noted that international relief organizations do not have medical activities in ..ran. Je draw the attention of international relief organizations towards this problem, in order to find a solution to it. As the time passes and the war becomes more intense, the problem exacerbates.
 Let us try to save the precious lifes of those who have fallen wounded , the victims of Soviet aggression.
 It was reported in some papers recently that a Iv.G.3 agent who had defected to the \?est and la*er returned to Soviet Union was executed in a-
 jail. The family of the executed person oaid 14 rubles for the cost of
                     was
 the ammunition whichufired to kill him. The story reveals the true inhuman face of Soviet Coramunisia and the way they treat their subjects.
                              KHALILI^S_POB^S
 •Some of Khalili's poems have been translated into French arid work to translate more is underway. Afghan Hews believes that it is a good step towards introducing our literature, culture and tradition to French spe
 akers.
 Translation work is done by a student of oriental studies in Paris University.


 AFGHAN
 NEWS
         A Biweekly. Bulletin Of Jami'at Islam! Afghanistan Post Box No, 264, Peshawar — Pakistan.
             Vol. II, No. s , is / 4 ✓ 1986. * *
                            T.1-1.K RIGHT FOR SELF-DETERMINATION
                                                                                  ,         I
    It  is the natural right of nations to choose their type      of government. Without this a
 nation can not   be called  independent. The problem of Afghanistan was created because -the
 Soviets wanted to take this natural right from Afghans. They wanted to appoint leaders for Afghanistan whom they tbouth were their best slaves.
    The   struggle of the people of Afghanistan is to preserve  this natural right. Four million
 refugees, half a million people killed or missing ail are the price paid to preserve this right.
    When Soviets failed   to impose their will on  the people  of Afghanistan by  the power of
 theft armed forces, they launched their political offensives.
                                                                   *c-v
    At    any occasion they have tried not to admit this right for the people of Afghanistan,
 j'he proximity talks which    have been going on for four years have dropped this item from
 the agenda. The participants have agreed not to talk about the right of the people of Afghanistan
 to determine their future.
 -  We    do not understand what type of peace these people     bring without giving the people
 of Afghanistan their right for self-determination. Equally we do not know how some contries like America and other western countries propose their support for a political solution in which the right for self-determination is not recognised.
    Even if Soviets leave Afghanistan but a puppet regime is imposed on the people of Afghanistan,
 Soviets have achieved    what they invaded Afghanistan for.    Soviets would be  successful to
 pass this message to all small countries that they have the    power and dermination to choose
 the type of government of other countries and there is no one to stop them.
    The right of  our people to determine their future can not be robbed from them ^ by military
 invasions or political negotiations. The presence of thousands of determined, faithful .and brave Mujahideen is a guarantee to that.
                                              A GOOD EXAMPLE
    Recently the  Government of the Islamic republics of Iran circulated a postage stamp which
 shows the uprising of Afghan people against the invaders, Soviets were very disturbed and ordered their puppets in Kabul to protest to the Iranian Government.
    We appreciate these types of steps and think that is a good example for other countries, especially Muslim countries, to follow. Every means should be emplyed to protest against aggression, massacre, and migratory-genocide of the people of Afghanistan.
                      AFGHAN NEWS VOL. 11.     NO.&. 15/4/1986. P- 2.
                         PUPPET REGIME TRADE WITH W. GERMANY
   Recently the puppet regim's commerce minister announced that his government's trade
 with West Germany annually reaches more than 80 million Dollars.
   We are sure the government and the people of Germany know that Afghanistan is an occupied
 country and that the Kabul regime is a puppet brought to power by the foreing forces.
   Any type of deal with such a puppet regime which kills the people of Afghanistan, is an
              unfriendly act towards the people of Afghanistan. Germans are in a better position to understand
              the nature of the occupationist forces in Afghanistan and they see with their won eyes how
 the communist regimes are treating their people.
   We expect that the Germans (Government and people) should revise their commercial policy
              towards the puppet regime and stop all the previllages that the regime is enjoying in that
                                                                                          1
 country.                                                                        '
   Merchants who travel by the permission of the KGB and KHAD are a security risk for Germany too.
   It is in the best interest of freedom that the puppet regime should not benefit from any commercial deal even if it means a little sacrifice, in the part of German people. We do
                                      f                                                        *
 not know how the German government explains the contradiction which is witnessed between the verbal support of the freedom fighters and normal trade with a notorious puppet regime whose hands are red with blood from the people of Afghanistan ’
                                 BUILDING I IMAGE ON DIRTY WORK
   The notorious regime of Babrak has neither internal support nor international recognition. To build its image she tries to do criminal jobs to force the outside world to talk against it. By supporting hijackers, attacking civilian targets in Pakistan and indulging in drug trafficking she want to get publicity.
   When they       bomb a civilian target, the next  day the regim's diplomat is called to   the
 foriegn office, a letter of protest is delvered to him. This makes the regime happy and consider it an achievement.
   Recently the puppet regime invented another      way  that was to take some foriegners     at
 gun point to Afghanistan and keep them for several months. This way the name of the regime is in the papers.
   Dr. Robert     williamr on an Australian working  for UNHCR-World Bank projects in Pakistan
 was kidnapped      and tr<en to Afghanistan. After  several weeks, finally, he was released  on
              Dec. 27th on the arniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan where his Pakistani driver
 is still in prison.
   Like any terrorist organization the puppet regime is building its image on dirty work and this is done according to plan drawn up by the Soviet invaders.
                                                     WAR MEWS
                                        ‘ PERWAN PROVINCE
 24 -'3/1986
    Mujahideen from J ami’at fslami attacked a puppets post in ’’Lower Dah Mullah" village oi Bagran district. 25 soldiers were captured along with 25 guns of different types.Mujahideen had no casualties. This area is close to Bagram Air Base, the largest in Afghanistan.
                                          AFGHAN NEWS VOL. H, NO-8. 15/4/19S6. P- 3.
                                                           TAKHAR PROVICE
       As it was reported in Afghan New (No.7), Soviet-puppet forces launched an offensive against Mujahideen of Khanabad and Takhar. The main mission of the offensive was to establish more security posts around the mentioned cities and resupply their garrisons from Kunduz to Keshm of Badakhshan Province.
       According to a report sent by Qari Rahmatullah, the provincial Ameer of Jaraiat in Kunduz, Mujahideen of different parties         fought  together against    the enemy.  The enemy      suffered a
   lot of casulties. Several high ranking puppet officers were killed. The enemy heavily bombed ~ the area as a result of which about 100 civilians and some Mujahideen were killed. Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets in their attacks.
       According to another report sent by Mawlawi Shah Mohammad, one of the commanders of Takhar, on March ISth, the           convoy  enrotite Farkhar  district was  ambushed by    Mujahideen
   from Jami'at Isiami. In three hours of fighting S tanks and two trucks of the enemy were destroyed either by SPG fire or land mines. Hie enemy was making use of artillary and BM-21 ground-to-ground rockets         against  Mujahideen as      a result of  which some     Mujahideen
   were martyred.                                       ,
       On March nth, the convoy returning back from Kalfgan(a sub-District of Takhar provice) was attacked by Mujahideen, the following items were captured.
        1-  34 different types of guns.
        2-  A large amount of ammunition.
        3-  One electrical generator.
        Several tanks and trucks were destroyed by land mines or RpG fire. Seven women belonging
   to the puppet officer’s families were captured. They were released the following day.
   6/3,"T 986.
* ------------
       Mujahideen attacked Militia posts in Khawja Hafez village of Yangi Qala District, captured
   five AK-47 and injured two militiamen.
 : 13/3.-1986.
       Mujahideen  attacked militia posts in Jarbashi village       of Yangi Qala District. Seven guns
   were captured and tow militiamen were injured. In another clash with militiamen in Eshan Abad village,   one militiaman     was injured and four   guns   were       captured. Two Mujahideen were
   martyred during this operation.
                                                           HERAT PROVINCE
   12/3/1986.
       Mujahideen  attacked Herat      Hotel where Soviets    and  their       puppets had formed a meeting.
               A large number of enemy were killed including some Soviet advisors and tow puppet regim's
   high ranking officers.
- ~l3/3/1986.
       The enemy    surrounded the     western part of the   Herat  city.      A big Soviet-Puppet force was
   involved in the operation. During the operation, which lasted for five days. Mujahideen resisted well and killed 20 enemy soldiers and injured 70 others. Some armoured cars and trucks were also destroyed. Seventeen AK-47 was captured by the Mujahideen. Five Mujahideen including Abdul Satar, a junior commander, were martyred. One helicopter was hit by a SAM-7 which took fire and crashed in Qala-i-Shater area.
                                             AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II, NQ.8. 15/4/1986. P- 4.
                                                         LAGHMAN PROVINCE
i>'3 1986.
    Soviet-puppet forces    attacked Dara-i-Noor sub-District of       Qarghaii                               District.  Mujahideen
resisted well.  The enemy air force                          and art ill ary were pounding the area.           Fighting   continued
for about three weeks. Soviet surrounded the villages and killed about 72 civilians. Casualties of Mujahideen    is not mentioned in the                            report.' Mujahideen of the area are facing shortage
of food and other supplies.
H should be     mentioned   here that,                     last:    year Soviets massacred about 600             people in Qarghaii
district. Massacre of civilians has become a deliberate policy of the Soviets.
                                                                                                   I
                                                       REPORT FROM PANJSH1R
31-•3-1986.
    A supply convoy of the enemy which was composed of 200 tanks and tracks entered Panjshir. Mujahideen ambushed the convoy in Bazarak. During five days of operation 8 ' tanks and 13 trucks were destroyed and a big numbef of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. One Soviet helicopter was shot down by DShKM fire in Bazarak. One' important Soviet officer and two puppet officers who wqre in the helicopter were killed. One Mujahid, namely Delawar Khan from Jangiak village of Bazarak, was martyred.
                                                         MAZAR-I-SHARIF
  24/3/1986.
    Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the 18th division and Mazar airport with 107mm rockets. 12 helicopters and two jets were destroyed. 40 enemy soldiers were killed and 60 others were wounded. Thanks to Allah, Mujahideen had no casualties.
                                                      BAGHLAN PROVINCE
   On 29th Of March, the enemy attacked Mujahideen positions near Baghlan city. Mujahideen of jami'at under the command of Mullah Shams fought bravely. 3 jeeps, 4 APCs of 60-PB type and 3 1-34 tanks were destroyed by RPG fire of Mujahideen. During the operation a commander of Mujahideen, namely Adder Rahman, was martyred.
The television team is ready to record your speech about 'PEACE*
                          AFGHAN IsErtS VOL. II. N0.8, 1S/4/1986. P- S.
            THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
    Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, took office as the spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan on April first. He will be the spokesman for three months.
    The previous spokesman was syed Ahmad Gailani. We wish every success for the new spokesman and hope he will take practical steps to strenghten the Alliance further. To do that, the full co-operation of all the Resistance leaders is necessary.
    MEETING WITH THE BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY
                                                                         t
   On April 3rd Prof. B. Rabbani the spokesman of the Afghan Mujahideen .Alliance Met’ with Sir Geofrey Howe, foreign Secretary of the Great Britain. Sir Geofrey was briefed about the military and political situation in Afghanistan.
   The Foreign Secretary p omised for the continuation of political and humanitarian support of his government for the teople of Afghanistan.
   Syed Ahmad Gailani, the previous spokesman of the Alliance, was also present in the meeting.
                           SflARIATMADARI' S SAP DEMISE
   Ayatullah Kazem Shariatmadas i, an Iranian religious leader, passed after long sickness. Shariatmadari used to speak openly against Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and made use of different occasions to express his views on the matter. His death is a great loss for all rouslims, Iranian brothers and the Mujahid people of Afghanistan who lost a friend.
   May Allah give him heavenly peace.
                          ICRC MISSION A GAIN FOR. THE SOVIETS
    On March 26th, ICRC announced that his mission to send back 8 Soviet PWs to that country
 was successfully finished. Out of 11 PWs 3 chose to stay in the West.
    Mujahideen had agree! to deliver Soviets PWs to ICRC having in mind a similar action from the                                             Soviet  side. But ICRC team in Kabul was expelled after some months and not a
 single Afghan benefited from the deal.
    ICRC argument that they ^ not promi.se any excange is true but every’ body knows, that it was the real iotive beh',nH                   decision. It seems that ICRC still is interested
 to  continue this                                       'one-sided humanitarian mission' and they try to convince Mujahideen leaders
 to  give them more PWs. If ICRC call the release of Soviet        criminals who have invaded a
 nonaligned Islamic country, have killed half a million people and driven out more than four millions, 'a humanitarian mission’, whet about thousands of innocent Afghans who are suffering in Jails for defence of their count,. If the mission was a test case for Mujahideen good intentions they proved it.
     Asking                                            more.prisoners from Mujahideen under me present conditions is not logical act
 and it only serves the Soviet criminals.