                         !N THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH j
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BDK 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                 VOL. IV, NO. I, 1/1/1988.
                               OFFENSIVE AGAINST hUJAHIDEEN IN KHOST
 Fierce fighting has continued between Mujahideen and Soviet troops backed by their puppets for some weeks.
 During the so-called Ley* Jirga, Nsjib told the reporters that Khost has been besieged by the Mujahideen and he wanted to open the road Since then, fighting for the purpose of resupplying Khost by land has continued
 Mujahideen bravely fought the enemy ground units in Sato-Kandaw pass and stopped the enemy s armored columns passing through. Aeri&I bombardments against the Mujahideen position and villages have been very intense.
 The enemy have also used heiiborne commando troops against the Mujahideen Several units of the puppet army have been surrounded by the Mujahideen Hundreds of enemy troops have been killed and wounded an d a large number of puppet troops and officers have been taken as prisoners
 The interesting side of the story is the Soviets unusual step to publicize the fighting Soviets claimed that their troops have killed 1500 Mujahideen in fighting around Khost. This claim was immediately rejected by the chairman of the Alliance. M. Younus K halts and put the figure of Mujahideen's casualties to 41 dead and 50 wounded Mr. Khalis also mentioned the displacement of a large number of civilians who have sought refuge in Pakistan
 Fighting still continues and reports' are saving that Soviet forces have made some progress in their slow advance towards Khost. Ac important feature of Khost fighting is unity among the fighters belonging to different political parties.
 The enemy casualties is said to be high, A large number of the enemy tanks and trucks have been destroyed and quite a substantial number of enemy jets, helicopters and military transports planes have been shot down The exact figures of the enemy losses will be available only at the end of the campaign. Mujahideen morale is very high and they have defended their positions heroically.
 Besides the military objective of relieving the garrison town of Khost the enemy has political and propaganda objectives to achieve
 The offensive is launched after the so-called loya Jirga in which they asked the Mujahideen to lift the ssige of Khost, The enemy wants to show that the puppet army is strong enough to achieve what could not be achieved through peaceful means5 this is why they kept the Soviets involvement secret and when the world started to see Soviets direct participation is combat, they fabricated the story of presence of foreign advisors in Khost in the side of Mujahideen.
 In the propaganda field, enemy wants to repeat the Jawar example In Jawar the enemy had a symbolic military victory which was used to make a lot of propaganda It is important that the Mujahideen should toil the world about the mobile nature of their
 war, * 1
                                                                                                          \r i O
                                                                                          1 -J u to y c

RFOHflH MEttS UBL.'U, Hfl. 1,      2/1/1988, PflGE   2
 Mujahideen put up resisais.ee as long as they tan afford to do bo and withdraw when, it i$tactically necessary. So far the Mujahideen have done a brilliant job, mors than one can expect from theta. If the Mujahideen handle the propaganda side of the war properly, they will win the war is both military and political ffeats.
      NEWS
  i
                                      FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                           FARYA8 PROVI MCE
 3/12/1987: in a well-planned large scale operation carried out by the Mujahideen under the command of Ssyed Yousuf against the enemy, the Mujahideen attacked the city of Maimana from two flanks (South sad East). The main target was a central prison, which was immediately captured fey the Mujahideen who broke into it and released over 900 people most of whom political prisoners.
 Following their operation, Mujahideen directed the attacks against the posts in the security belts around the city and captured them within hours of fighting.
 About £5 Russian-DEA soldiers were killed and 11 others were injured in the course of fighting is the city in addition to 9 soldiers who were captured alive.
 The report adds that Mujahideen were able to shoot down 3 enemy jet fighters which crashed in. Koc-hi Diana. Zsrgar Khaaa and Afghan Root areas situated in the Northern part of Maimana city,
 An unknown number of heavy and light weapons were seised from tbs enemy forces the report said.
 According to another reliable report from Faryab, in continuation of the fight in that province. Mujahideen have lost a great commander and Russians have suffered heavy
 casualties,
 Commander Yar Mohammad, who’played an important role in capturing half of the Maimana city and releasing the prisoners, was martyred near Darband (located about 111 kilometers Southwest of Maimana city) on december 11,1987.
 After Yar Mohammad s group and other Mujahideen entered the Maimana city at the end of November and the beginning of December, Russians brought more troops from
HFSHRrt HEUS UOL.IV, HD, 1,        I/1/I9BB,  Pfl6E  3
 Baikh province. The troops launched attacks on Mujahideen bases outside the Maimana city to force the Mujahideen to get out of the city The Mujahideen withdrew from the city
 Russians launched their attack oat Darband, where Yar Mohammad's base was located, on December S. Mujahideen resisted strongly and forced the invading troops to retreat. Mujahideen shot down one helicopter and inflicted heavy' casualties on the enemy, (the exact number is not available). Six Mujahideen were martyred and about ten persons were wounded
 On December 11, Commander Yar Mohammad came to Darband Before reaching his base, he and the Mujahideen with him came under sudden bombardment byy three Russian helicopters. Yar Mohammad and four of his Mujahideen were martyred and two persons were wounded.
 The next day, Dec 12, Mujahideen shot down one enemy helicopter
 In the mid-December, the Mujahideen held a meeting under the leadership of Mawlavi Sayed Yusuf, general Amir of jamiat Mujahideen in Faryab, in Almar District to discuss the future operations of Mujahideen.
                                            BADAKHSHAN PROVINCE
 In an operation against military posts in Fazabad airport on December 13, Mujahideen captured one of the posts. The operation took place under the command of Abdul Basir. By conquering the Lai Aba post. Mu jahideen captured 70 soldiers. 66 AK~47s. two heavy machineguns. five light machineguns and a lot of ammunition. About 30 of the enemy troops were killed and wounded. Seven Mujahideen were martyred and 12 were injured. Some local population were also martyred or wounded by heavy Russian bombardment.
 Because of the Mujahideen s heavy fire, an ammunition depot was set on fire. As a result of the operation the airport was closed for one week.
                                            BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 28/U/39S-7: In a series of operations against the enemy forces, the Mujahideen of Hasantai area under the command of Arbab Juma were able to capture 4 posts belonging to the puppet army in Shahri Kuhna area North of Baghlan city
 During the fighting. 9 enemy soldiers were killed and 10 others were taken as prisoners while the rest fled making use of darkness. About 94 light weapons were seized from the posts during the operation
 By wiping out DRA posts, the area came under full control of the Mujahideen.
                                             KUNDUZ PROVINCE
 16/11/19S7: Mujahideen led by Arif Khan, the general commander of Jami'at in Kunduz, carried out an operation against enemy forces on Kunduz-Shirkbac highway. The fighting lasted for 3 hours in the morning and resulted in the destruction of 3 APCs and killing of 12 enemy soldiers. Seven soldiers including 3 miiitias and a DRA officer were taken prisoner.
 Mujahideen had no casualties in the operation, the report said.
                                              KABUL PROVINCE
 21/11/1987: Fighting broke out between Mujahideen and DRA forces which were trying to resupply their posts in Aka Kb ail village of Qarabagh district Facing Mujahideen
RfGHRM NEWS VDl..iV, HO. 1,        S/1/198S,   ?B6E   4
 resistance, the enemy forces lost 15 soldiers and could not advance into the area
 Fey Mujahideen were martyred and some others vers injured in the fighting
                                               MAN6ARHAR PROVINCE
 10/ 12/19S7; Different groups of Mujahideen launched a joint operation on DP.A posts In Torkhm area near the Pakistan border using ground-to-ground rockets, As a result. 9 militias were killed and an officer was wounded
                                 MUJAHIDEEN’S BIG MEETING IN PESHAWAR
 Today, December 27.I9S7, the Russian invasion of Afghanistan was condemned in a big meeting held by the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan in Peshawar,
 About 30,000 Refugees and Mujahideen had got together in the meeting.A substantial number of our Pakistani brothers had participated in the meeting in addition to some muslim brothers from the Middle east. There were quite a number journalists to cover the proceedings
 The meeting started at 9:am with the recitation of a few verses from the Roly Quran and then followed by speeches delivered by the leaders of the Mujahideen who condemned the Soviet occupation and demanded an early withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan
 Mawlavi Mohammad Younus Ehalis, the leader of the Mujahideen's Islamic Alliance read out the Resolution of the Mujahideen Alliance in which the Afghanistan issue was attributed as the direct result of Russian invasion
 According to the Resolution, the first step towards the restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan was the unconditional withdrawal of Soviet forces from that country.
 It has been mentioned in the Resolution that the Mujahideen will only stop their armed resistance when the following conditions are fulfilled:
    1- Russians get thek troops unconditionally but of Afghanistan.
    2- The political independence, territorial integrity and all rights of the people are restored,
    3- An Islamic government is established in the country'.
    4- The people are given the right to determine their future without foreign pressure and interference.
 Mawiana AbdnrRakiin, a Pakistani scholar and Abdul Majid Zendani an Arab scholar also spoke in the 1 ; occasion. The meeting ended at i:pm after burning of a Russian flag.
 This was the second large meeting which was convened by the Alliance of the Mujahideen parties during the current year The previous meeting was held in connection to the enemy’s announcement of so-calied 'National Reconciliation' and ’ceasefire'.
                                              PUPPET SHOW FAILED
 The puppet show called "Leya jirga" failed to produce publicity for the Soviet-sponsored ''Reconciliation” policy of the puppets.
 Mujahideen racket attacks shook the conference hall and shewed the reality of ins situation to the guest journalists and friendly politicians From abroad.
                             RFuKflrt KEMS UOL.!V> HO. 1,       1/1/1968,  PAGE  g
     The incident of a shoot-out among the puppet forces was a great cause of embarrassment for Najib who -was directing the whole show.
     Communist agents chosen by the puppet party were brought into the conference hail, Soma were wearing Western suits and some traditional clothes to show that they belong to different parts of Afghanistan and different walks of life.
     As it was expected, they passed what the puppets civil a "constitution” and appointed Najib the president and supported all that was presented to them including motions on the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the continued occupation of the country
     In a press conference which was held later, Najib answered the questions of journalists but tbs atmosphere of the conference seemed very cool Najib did not impress the journalists because he was repeating his previous statements.
     About the shoot-out Incident, he blamed one of his militia commanders for being a drug and ale hoi-addict. About the defection of his brother, he said that SediquHah had cut his relationship with Najib's family 15 years agoU).
     The show failed to earn enough publicity What Najib gained from the show was the title of the presidency of the Republic of Afghanistan- A thing which was not worth the embarrassment he suffered from the show.
                                                    AFGHAN WINTER
                                                                                                                               I
     Winters have always been difficult for Afghan people but the winters after the Soviet invasion, have been more difficult.
     Afghanistan is a cold country with a lot of snowfall during the winter The temperature drops up to 10 degrees centigrade below zero in most parts of the country.
     Before the war winter was the time when the farmers relaxed. Mosques were full of people and mosque schools were full of y wag giris and boys, The people were poor and i they suffered from lack of warm clothing and proper shoes, but in general the people enjoyed winter.
     After cite Soviet invasion the pattern of life changed, villages were destroyed and families were divided, The enemy s successive offensives and air raids have taken away peace of mind and comfort of body
     Food is always a problem during the winter People in the liberated areas suffer very much because the mountainous routes either would become very difficult for transportation or totally blocked. This means little food would be available and consequently the prices will go higher
     Winter means the total absence of vegetables and fruits and the people will depend on bread, rice and potatoes. The absence of fruit and vegetable leads to a variety of diseases.
     Lack of warm clothes and proper foot-wear is an acute problem in today's Afghanistan. Local production of warm clothes has ceased because of the war and second hand garments which came to the market from the West are not available in sufficient quantities If anything is available, the prices are so high that the people cannot buy them
     As a result of poor diet and insufficient warm clothes and poor heaiic g systems in the houses, people suffer from a lot of diseases.
j   If the enemy launches an offensive or bomb the areas tha situation further
i   deteriorates. Mujahideen have to fight and women and children must leave the villages
t____________________________
flFC’fMH WUS uai, H>, HO, 1, i/5/1388, Pfffit S
     and take shelter in caves and tunnels in the mountains. High up in the mountains the weather is extremely cold, fire-fuel is not available and food is scarce. If someone is wounded he has to wait till the next year for the roads to be opened to be sent for further treatment.
     Knowing ail the above problems. Soviets usually launch winter offensives against the Mujahideen-coniroiled areas.
     Life for our people in the Soviet-controlled areas is very difficult toe Except for a few Communists, the majority of poor people in the cities suffer from lack of fuel, proper clothing and food. We have seen that some people smuggle charcoal to Kabul as if it were precious stones, la the cities fuel oil is rationed and load shedding continues for most of the the day and night. The puppet regime launches special offensives around the cities for the purpose of bringing in fire-wood, They cut the fruit trees of the people or destroy the houses and bring the logs, doors and windows to use as fire-wood.
     Our people have suffered eight long winters since the Soviets invaded Afghanistan When will the Soviets leave to let the people resume their normal life? the world is waiting for Soviet action to end this cruel and inhuman imperialistic war.
     Winter also means little coverage of the war in most parts of Afghanistan, dye to the closure of the mountainous routes, few foreign journalists will go to cover the war
                     WILL INF BE LINKED WITH WITHDRAWAL OF SOVIET FORCES
     Before the Superpower's summit started there were a lot of speculations about what some people called it a breakthrough ' in finding a political solution to ? year old conflict la Afghanistan Re&gm Administration while preparing for signing the treaty was telling the world about American strong position on regional issues, especially
     Afghanistan
     IMF was signed. Gorbachev did not have any good news about his little war in Afghanistan and the American Administration did'not .Uni Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan to the signing of an IMF treaty.
     INF has to be ratified by the congress. Will the congress which is a traditional supporter of the Afghan cause link ratification of the INF treaty to the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan?
     The two issues have a logical connection, Soviet;; cannot be trusted about peace if they continue the occupation of small neighboring country and ignore the demand of the majority of the countries for the withdrawal of their troops Peace cannot be divided between nuclear and conventional.
     Now that Soviets are trying to pose as peace-makers and expect the world to believe them, they should he tested in the case of Afghanistan. A country which has killed more than half of a million people of a small neighboring country and has driven 5 million others into exile can not be trusted to respect any treaty or not to get involved in mass killing somewhere else, whatever the type of weapons.
     We hope that a strong position of the US congress will have a positive effect on the process aimed at finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
                         ISRAELI CRIMES AGAINST THE PEOPLE OF PALESTINE
     The late unrest in the occupied Palestine once more showed the violent way the Israeli authorities deal with defenseless Arabs Tens of demonstrators were killed by bullets fired by the Israeli soldiers and hundred others were injured. A large number of Palestinians also have been arrested by Israel military authorities
BFOHR't HEilS UOl.to, HO. 1,      1/1/1908,  PTOE  7
      Ua rest still continues and the Israeli authorities threaten using a stronger force to cairn the situation Since Israel was created the people of Palestine have been suffering both in the occupied Palestine and in the refugee camps in other Arab countries. International community failed to find a solution to their problems and the Israeli authorities who have been successful in the battlefields against Arab armies, have refused to take proper steps to find an honourable solution to the problems of Palestine, in the latest incident. Palestinian teenagers faced armed Israeli soldiers and stones thrown by school boys was answered with a barrage of bullets,
      Israelis are the first who bear the responsibility of the plight of Palestinian but Arab countries, Muslim nations and the whole world can not escape a share of responsibility for not putting enough pressure on Israel and its principal supporters in the West to end the tragedy of Palestine.
      Most of the countries have expressed worry about the situation in the occupied Palestine, but Israeli leaders say they are not concerned what the rest of the world says about their misbehavior
      Afghan Resistance fully supports the just cause of Palestinian people and calls for an end to ail sons of violent action by the Israeli authorities against defenseless Palestinians
      Permanent solution to the problems of Palestine is the evacuation of Israeli forces from occupied Arab lands and the creation of a homeland for Palestinians.
                                       ITALIAN JOURNALIST CAPTURED
     A 2b year old Italian journalist, Fausts BilosJavo. was captured by the Communist troops in lunar about 4 weeks ago when he was passing the area,
     Mr, Fausto was returning from a three month trip to the North along with two other journalists. They could not go through Nooristan because one of the Mujahideen parties had blocked the way for the journalists going to the North and coming out
     The group of journalists who were trying to avoid a village controlled by the same party were passing close to a puppet security post, Mr. Fausto who had stayed behind separated from the group, walked by the post and was captured ,
     This is the second journalist captured during the current year The first one was Alan Geiiio. a French photographer who was captured in Mai mans area
     Russians and their puppets try to scare the foreign journalists from covering the war and try to capture them on charges of illegal entry and even spying. Some months ago two American journalists were killed by the Soviets on their way to Pakistan,
     Iq & war with so little coverage, losing so many journalists will put a further negative effect on the coverage of a forgotten war in Afghanistan.
                                          MAJ1B MET RAJIV }N NEW DELHI
     Najlb. the head of the puppet regime in Kabul, met Rajiv Gandhi in New Delhi on December 24 and discussed with him problems of mutual interest,
     This is Najib's first meeting to a foreign country other than the Soviet Union as the head of the puppet regime. Although the meeting was called unofficial, it shows the Indians close connection with the poppet regime and their silent support of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan.
                     India as a member of the non-aligned movement has never criticized the Soviet
PFBHRN HEMS UOL.IU, HO.
1, l/l/tOT, PAGE S
                                                                                                                                                                                                            '
      invasion of Afghanistan openly and has always abstained from voting for the UN Resolution on Afghanistan India voted against the UN Resolution condemning violation of human rights in occupied Afghanistan.
      India wanted the poppet regime to become a member of SAAP.C but faced the opposition of the rest of member states
                                                                                                                                        r
      India has close diplomatic and trade relations with the puppet regime in Kabul and the J Indian government has been lobbying for the so-called 'National Reconciliation1' of the puppet regime among the non-aligned countries.
     From Delhi Najib will go to Vietnam, once a champion of freedom’ and now an aggressor ana Cambodia an occupied country.
  j
     Najib's visit to India . Vietnam and Cambodia is part of the Russian game to get publicity for a notorious puppet head and Delhi meeting is an important part of the program
     Soviets thin's that Najib’s visit to nc-a-aligned India will be a prestigious diplomatic move for an isolated and doomed puppet of theirs This may not prove useful for the puppet regime because the world knows that Indian policy towards invasion of Afghanistan lacks independence of judgement and moral commitment to the cause of freedom.
                    ANTI-WAR DEMONSTRATION IN MOSCOW
     One day before the 9th anniversary of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, a group of Soviet dissidents staged a demonstration near the Soviet ministry of defence in Moscow. Demonstrators were attacked by Moscow police and several of them were arrested
     A spokesman of the group said that two of their colleagues were beaten by the police. Opposition to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is gaining ground An opinion poll organized by a French organization has shown that 53% of the people in Soviet Union are opposing the ‘war in Afghanistan
fit) THliAMEQF ALM10HTY aIZahI
A F GH A Nnews
                   A FORTNIGHTLY BULLET IK OF JAM I'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR-PAKISTAN.
                              VOL. IV. NO. 2, 1/15/1988.
                                      TWO MORE GARRISONS CAPTURED
 The fall of two of the puppet regime's garrisons., one in Panjshir and the other in Baghlan. is a major victory for the Mujahideen.
 Shaba Garrison was captured in 25 minutes with only two Mujahideen casualties. Burka Garrison, located in a plain was captured in a similar manner.
 With the capture of these two garrisons, Mujahideen have .eliminated five enemy garrisons in less than six months and forced one more to evacuate. A large portion of the countryside was liberated and became safer for the civil population. The enemy lost some of its intelligence gathering outposts in the countryside and its underground political activities suffered a heavy blow. A large quantity of arms, ammunition and foodstuffs was captured. As a result, the morale of the Mujahideen and the local population rose high and that of the enemy fell,
 The capture of the two garrisons represents an important step forward in the war against the enemy . They were captured almost simultaneously. In the past Mujahideen were only able to attach one at a time.
 The attacks on the two garrisons were prepared and executed by local commanders. In the past Commander Masood supervised the planning and execution of all attacks. This shows the degree to which Mujahideen have progressed in preparing and carryin g out attacks.
 Finally, the two last victories came at a time when the Soviets and their puppets were issuing propaganda concerning their victories on the Khost front.
 The recent victories of the Mujahideen were a source of embarrasment to the puppet regime and will hasten its fall from grace with its Soviet masters by showing its incompetence in defending its fortified positions
                      ULEMA CONDEMNES THE PUPPET REGIME FOR BOMB BLASTS
 A group of important Ulema (Islamic Scholars) condemned Communist terrorism in the form of bomb blasts in Pakistan. The Ulema included Vice-President Rabita ai-Alans al-Islam!. Mr, Mohammad Mahmoudi Sawwaf (Saudi Arabia), Mr. Abdul Majid Zindani (Yemen). Mr Abdul Fatlah Barakah and Dr. Hussain Hamid Hussain (Egypt), Senator Qazi Abdul Latif and MNAs Maulana Wasi Mazhar Nadvi and Mawalana Moeenuddin Lakhvi (Pakistan).
 Mavian a Wasi Maihar Nadvi read a resolution adopted by the Ulema delegation. The resolution paid tribute to the determination, sacrifices and enthusiasm of the Afghan Mujahideen, which has stopped the Communist ideological advance upon the Muslim world.
 The delegation also lauded the spirit of hundreds of thousands of Afghans, who have been compelled to emigrate to save their religious values, culture and civilization.
RrBKRH HEWS WH..IV, NO. 2, 1/15/1998, Pf©E c
                                           FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                         MORE VICTORIES IN PANJSHIR
 26/12/1987: Mujahideen of Paajsfair under the command of Saranwal Mahmood Khan, the general commander of the Paajshir Front, captured one garrison and five poms of the enemy. They also inflicted ether casualties on the enemy in the valley.
 The operation against the Shaba Garrison ’was launched early in the morning by 60 Mujahideen and lasted only 25 minutes, la the operation. 24 enemy troops were killed and 133 were captured. Mujahideen also seized the following items:
 1- Three tanks
 2- Sis mortars
 3- Fourteen heavy and light machine guns
 4- More than 100 AE-47s
 5- Thirteen sets of R-195 communication equipment
 6- Large quantities of ammunition and other items
 In this operation, two Mujahideen including Abdul Faqir, a member of the Central Units, were martyred aad 12 were wounded
 It should be noted that the Shaba Garrison was protected by hundreds of mines, and seven mountain-top posts which were also captured.
 At the same time, Mujahideen launched attacks against enemy targets in other parts of Panjshir in order to keep the enemy from reinforcing Shaba. Is these operations, five mare posts, one in Manjavoor, two in Parandeh and two in Hesai Doo. were conquered by the Mujahideen. They captured 32 Kiashinlwvs. one PK machfnegun and a large quantity of ammunition.
 Mujahideen also destroyed the enemy's mountain-top posts in Tawakh, Aaaba and Feraj. An ammunition depot .in Rukba, a Russian communication center in Aaaba aad the enemy's base in Rahman shall were set ablaze . The details of enemy casualties inside the posts and the bases are not available,
 Mujahideen casualties, is the operations other than- Shaba, included five martyrs aad eight wounded.
                                                       s^ir r*
RFGKRH HiEliS WJl.itl, HO. 2,         l/i5/‘.C53,  PftGE  3
                                         BURKA GARRISON CAPTURED
 Mujahideen of J.I.A conquered the Burka Garrison io Baghlao province on December 24.1987. In the operation, which lasted only iVw hours, 10 troops of the puppet regime, were killed, 30 were wounded and about 100 were captured
 Mujahideen casualties included U martyrs and 22 injured In the operation Mujahideen seized two tanks, three mortars, eight heavy machinsguns. 60 iigJb t weapons, one RPG-7 rocket launcher, two communication sets and large quantities of ammunition, foodstuffs and other items
 The operation took place under the command of Abdul Hay Haqjo. the general commander of Jassi'at Mujahideen in Baghiaa In. addition to the local Mujahideen, seme units from Nahrin. in central Baghicvc, and Ishkamish tlakhar province) also wok pan in the operation
 The Burka Garrison was located halfway between Kahrin and ishkansish, and was manned by the puppet army and EHAP agents. With the conquest of the Garrison, a great deal of large territory was liberated from the Eafcui regime
                                                 HERAT PROVINCE
 .Under Commander Ismael Khan, Mujahideen {attached a series of attacks against enemy targets in seven districts and around the city of Herat from December. 15 to December 21. In these operations. Mujahideen destroyed nine tanks and APCs and killed or wounded about 60 Russian and puppet regime troops. Some high racking communist officers and party officials were among those killed
 in the operation, sis. Mujahideen were martyred and 13 were wounded. Russian places bombarded civilian population ja retaliation to the attacks The casualties were high, especially in the Pashiaon &,.rg'boos, district.
 The second wave of Mujahideen operations ia Herat began on Dec,2.4 and is Continuing is these operations 8 military posts of the puppet regime's troops, in Baadi Salma of Chesht districts. wera captured.
                                                 LOGAR PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Barali Barak and Sayed Abad CWardak) launched an attack on Sayed j abaci district headquarters on December 25 The Observation Tower and some other parts of the base were destroyed. Tea, soldiers and three KHAD agents were killed and sins others ware wounded.
 Mujahideen casualties included 4 wounded.
 9/12/1987- Mujahideen of Kulangar fought a one and half hoar battle against heliborne troops who tried to ambush Mujahideen in Shigi 2ora (between Khoshi and Dubandi). Mujahideen were able t» shoot down one of the six helicopters which bombed their positions Other enemy casualties are not available Mujahideen casualties included five martyrs and one seriously wounded
                                                 KABUL PROVINCE
 9/12/1987- Mujahideen under the command of Abdul ShaJwwr penetrated the Security Belt around the Kabul city and launched attacks against the Training Regiment and governmental gasoline depot in Char Asyab at 12:00 am. The enemy suffred losses in tna a and material, but further details were aoi available
RFRHflH HEMS UQL.Ui, HO, 2, J/15/19BB, PAGE 4
 The enemy answered the Mujahideens' attack by firing BM-21 at their positions, the Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 11/12/19S7: In another rocket attack on military posts in the eastern part of Kabul city,
, Mujahideen destroyed the Qalai Hafizuilah post killing and wounding art unknown * number of enemy troops . They also captured sis soldiers and four AK-47s .
                                                 LAGHMAN PROVINCE
 8/12/19$?- Mujahideen of Torghar of J.I.A and other organizations) launched attacks against the military posts along the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway. They destroyed three tanks and the ammunition depot of Speena Tahaa. Fifty-three Russian and puppet regime troops were either killed or wounded. Some Mujahideen were wounded in the operation, the exact figure was not available.
 The Kabul-Jalalabad highway was closed to traffic for one day by the Mujahideen Ten trucks and some arms and ammunitions were seized Details were unavailable.
 In two other operations, Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and one truck and set one ammunition dump ablaze. More than 20 enemy troops were killed. Eight light weapons and a communication set were seized.
 In addition, Mujahideen reportedly shot down two enemy jets on Dec. 24.
                                                      KANDAHAR
                                                                  ■ '’sV
 19/12/1987 Mujahideen under the command of Mulla Naqib attacked the a unit of the puppet army belonging to the Kandahar Division. Three officers were killed and M soldiers were captured along with their weapons. Thirteen innocent localciviiians. who had been held as prisoners, were released.
 In the operation Mujahideen also captured the weapons depot of the mentioned unit and seized 2 heavy maehineguas, S3 of AK-47s, 3 tight machineguns. 2S.T.T pistols, 12 Makarov pistols and two boxes of hand grenades
 This same group of Mujahideen had on December 17 shot down one of the eight Russian jets which were bombing their center in Arghaadab, The plans,crashed in Khakraiz
 Mujahideen under the command of jalaluddin and Adel Nafi launched an attack on the ‘Security Beit'1 around Kandahar city on December 20 They'destroyed one post and seized the following:
 1- Machinegun............ 2
 2- RPG-7 rocket launcher.. 2
 3- Klashinkoy..............6
 4- TI Pistol.............. 3
 5- one communication set
 Twenty enemy troops, including four officers and $ Jawzijaai militiamen were captured and a number of others were killed or wounded Two Mujahideen were also wounded.
                           MEMORANDUM TO THE SOVIET EMBASSY
More than 2000 intellectuals and Trade Union leaders from all over Pakistan signed:® memorandum to protest continued bomb blasts in'Pakistan, The memorandum Was delivered by a representative of the signatories to an official of the Soviet Embassy in Islamabad.
 ftfGtifili HEMS UOL.IU, HO. 2, 1/15/1980, P83E 5
 The memorandum asks the Soviet government to bring -ah immediate halt to the terrorist action against Pakistan The Soviets and their puppets harp launched a terroristic campaign against Pakistan, since the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, in force Pakistan tv abstain from supporting the Afghan cause
 %
 More than three million Afghan refugees are living in Pakistan. In 1987 more than 262 people lost their lives and 1,330 were injured in 2S6 incidents of bomb blasts sponsored by the Soviets
                        GENEVA PROXIMITY TALKS                                       j
                                                                                                                              I
 Geneva proximity talks have continued since 1982 Mow Mr . Cordovas, the U.N General Secretary's and Special Representative on Afghanistan, says that the next phase of the Geneva, talks will fee the last.
 This is not the first time Mr, Cordovefc has been optimistic about a quick settlement of the Afghan issue through the proximity talks, Ho expressed similar views 5 years ago, but the talks have dragged on till now.
 The UN General Assembly has instructed the General Secretary to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan, in which Afghan self-determination is guaranteed, Soviet troops are withdrawn, the non-aligned and Islamic status of • Afghanistan is restored, and the refugees may return to their homeland with honor
 But the present Geneva talks mainly concern the withdrawal of troops, and noninterference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. The .main question, the right of self-determination, is not cm the agenda of the talks If Pakistan and the puppet regime agree cm a time table for the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, they have not solved the problem, Many questions remain before a practical settlement can be achieved. An agreement based on the present format of Geneva talks wilt leave a regime In Kabul with whom the Resistance and the people of Afghanistan cannot compromise.
 Can the refugees return under these circumstances? The answer is no if the Communists are ia power the majority of the refugees will. refuse to return because there is no guarantee of their safety.
 The second problem which remains is the right of genuine self-determination, If this is not settled in advance , the Mujahideen must continue their fight. Knowing this, the Soviets are asking for more time than they actually need to withdraw their troops.
 In the absence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan, the Resistance is strong enough to defeat the puppet regime. What would be the Soviets' reaction in that case? Will they re-invade to save their puppets7 Or, sensing the danger, will they make excuses and suspend the withdrawal of their troops?
 The weak point of the Geneva talks is that the two principal antagonists, the Soviets and the Mujahideen, are not participating. Any talks concerning, Afghanistan without direct participation of the Mujahideen, cannot bring peace, Moreover, the present Geneva talks do not address the right to self-determination, which the UN resolutions demanded . Without this right, peace is wishful thinking
 To speak of the "final phase" of talks is over-optimistic. Soon Mr. Cordovez wili sense the difficulties ahead,
                   mas
RFGHRrt HEWS U0L.1U, HO, 2, S/15riSa8, PfiGE 6
                                                KHOST CAMPAIGN
     Resupplying the Khost garrison ■was neither a major victory for the Soviets nor'a major setback for the Mujahideen.
     The local population s fight against the Soviet superpower has always been a mobile guerrilla war. The Mujahideen resist the enemy by laying mines and. ambushing convoys. The purpose is to inflict maximum losses in men and material, and to keep the casulties of the resistance as low as possible
     With this in mind, the Mujahideen have done a superb job in’the Khost campaign The enemy suffered heavy casualties and their advance was very slow. Mujahideen ■casualties appear to have been very light.
     The enemy tried to make the campaign a major news event The fighting around Khost was shown on Moscow Television and the Soviet foreign ministry briefed newsmen about the situation on several occasions. The Soviets tried to show that the arrival of some of their convoys after several weeks of campaigning was a victory for them and a defeat for the Resistance, in the beginning they wanted to hide their involvement in order to get maximum publicity for their Afghan puppets, but later it became impossible to conceal the role of their troops in the campaign
     The enemy ground forces have reached Khost; but what have they accomplished thereby ?
     Because of the terrain and the strength of the Resistance, the Soviet campaign was a one-time achievement- They are not able to secure the Gardez-Khost road by establishing posts all along it. The road passes through mountains and deep valleys, an
     ideal ground for guerrilla attacks.
     If the enemy strengthen Khost garrison with additional troops, they face the problem of feeding extra moths. Aerial transport is expensive and dangerous. Each ground resupply convoy needs two months of fighting, and suffering heavy casualties, to reach Khost.
     The Khost campaign has not been a major victory for the enemy, and cannot be considered a defeat for the Mujahideen. It is the beginning of further complications for the puppets and the Soviets The Mujahideen will continue to harass the enemy supply routes, and will tighten their siege around Khost again. This is a normal process of guerrilla warfare.
     We suggest is that the Mujahideen capture the enemy garrisons in the countryside, rather than besieging them for years They have the manpower and resources to do the job. A good sign in the area Was the cooperation between different parties, and this will make annihilating the enemy garrisons more easier We hope the Mujahideen in the area will soon begin a new phase of war. the semi-mobile attacks for the purpose of capturing enemy garrisons.
I In Northeastern Afghanistan such a process has already started
                                    JAIL TERM FOR FRENCH JOURNALIST
     Allan Guilin, a French photographer, was tried and given a prison term of 10 years on charges of sspionage.
     Allan was captured by the Communist forces in the North of Afghanistan some months i ago. He was a well-known journalist who has been covering the war since the j beginning of the Soviet invasion
RfGHfiH HEMS WL.IU, NO, 2, 1/15/1908, ERSE ?
 The Soviets and the puppet regime are very sensitive about foreign journalists travailing with the Mujahideen. They are afraid that these people "will take the news of' their atrocities our. of Afghanistan and tell the world about it. Prison, and charges of espionage are used to intimidate them, so that they will net enter Afghanistan with the Mujahideen to cover the war
 Some years ago, when a French doctor was captured in Afghanistan, the Soviet ambassador in Islamabad warned journalists going inside that they would be killed by the Soviets and puppet armed forces
 Mr, Guillo was tried by a so-called Revolutionary Court, which does not allow the person on trial to defend himself properly. These courts have been responsible for the execution and imprisonment of thousands of innocent Afghans. Mr, Guillo has not broken any law, He was travelling with the Resistance, who represent the Afghan people, and who control most of Afghanistan.
 The sentences of 16 years for each of the two Afghans who were captured along with j Mr, Guillo, reveals the criminal nature of the puppets and their masters,
 World public opinion must put pressure on the Soviet Union to set Mr, Giilo free, The Soviets are the true rulers in Kabul.
                                   AFGHANISTAN AND SOME ARAB LEADERS
 While most of the Arab countries support the Mujahideen, there are some who oppose them, It is natural for an Afghan to expect his Arab brothers, who are Muslims, to come to his aid when he is attacked by a Godless superpower.
 While most of the Arab countries have supported our cause, there are some who oppose it on various grounds. Libya, Syria and South Yemen are oppose us to please the Soviets. These countries have strong links with the puppet regime in Kabul; they even lobby for the Soviet cause in the UN and other international forums.
 Algeria, which once had to fight for its freedom, now fails to support even the weak resolution on Afghanistan passed by the UN, We believe that this position of indifference does not suit a people who once fought for their freedom and the preservation of their faith.. The Algerians owe us support, because when the7 were fighting we supported their cause
 Iraq's position has fluctuated throughout the past 5 years. Sometimes it supports the resolution and sometimes abstains At the beginning of Soviet invasion, Iraq became suspicious of Soviet intentions towards the small countries with whom they had signed friendship treaties But as the Iraq-Iran war dragged on, Iraq started to shift towards the Soviet Union, one of its main weapon suppliers.
 The position of North Yemen is peculiar President All Abdullah Saleh, while visiting Pakistan, said to the reporters that he supported the efforts of Pakistan to find a political settlement to the problem of Afghanistan, but a few weeks ago Yemen's representatives did not take part in General Assembly voting on Afghanistan
 Kuwait, in an attempt to maintain good relationship with the Soviets, has given little support to Afghanistan's cause The Arab summit in Kuwait was extremely weak on Afghanistan, There was little opportunity for the Mujahideen Delegation to make soiid contacts with other delegations and with the press.
 Finally, the PLO is a supporter of the puppets and of the Soviet invasion, The PLG chief, Mr, .Arafat, was one of the few leaders in the world who sent a congratulatory message to puppet leader Najib, when he declared himself the president of Afghanistan This behavior is strange because Afghans always have been strong supporters of the
 Palestinian cause
RFGHflH HEWS TOL.IW, HO. 2, 1/15/1908, PB6E8
  The oppressed Palestinian people should stand by us rather than by the Soviet in vaders •who have always played a double game in the Middle East
  One thing is clear: that is the overwhelming majority support of the Arab masses for our cause, The bonds of faith and brotherhood are so strong that it could not be affected • by the short-sighted, even ua-Islamic. policies of some leaders.
  When Mujahideen leaders ask these officials why they do not take sides with the Mujahideen and the people of Afghanistan, and condemn the invasion,, they give . strange answers. Some say, 'our hearts are with you*, and others talk about open and secret positions',
  The Soviets in Afghanistan, and Israel in Palestine, have made use of these divisions to continue their occupations, If &00 million Muslims were true Muslims and if they were united to defend each other against aggression, the Soviets would not have dared to invade Afghanistan. If the Muslim world had stood firm behind the Afghans and had net divided themselves, the occupation of Afghanistan would not have lasted so long.
                                 MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION MET ARMACOST
  A Mujahideen delegation, comprised of the leaders of the Seven-party Alliance, met Mr Armacost, the US Deputy Secretary of State., in Islamabad on January 5,1988,
  The delegation was headed by Mr. Younus Ehaiis, the chairman of the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan,
  They discussed all aspects of the conflict in Afghanistan, Mr. Armacost briefed the delegation about the Washington summit,