VOL. II NO. 4
MEWS
                  Jamiftt i-tslami Afghanistan Post Box No 264, G PO Peshawar—Pakistan
                            FOOD_^9S--iIJ.,§i2§
    In order to live one needs to eat food. Shortage of food and famine threaten Afghan nation and nay cause further displacement of the population.
    Unlike Africa, shortage of food and signs of famine in Afghanistan has been caused directly by tfye Soviet Union. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1975 caused a nationwide resistance and led to the expansion of military operations all over Afghanistan. When the Soviets discovered the close link between the people and the resistance they adopted the inhuman scorched-earth policy.
    The purpose of this is to force the people of Afghanistan to surrender to the invaders or leave the country. This has led to the displacement of more than four million people to the neighbouring countries and two million inside the country.
    At the begining of the war people gave materials support to the Mujahideen but as time passed they become poorer and poorer and many have lost all they had. The resistance which depends on the people faces the problem of talcing care of those who lost every thing. The presence of them is necessary for the continuation of an effective resistance. These brave men, women and children like to stay in their country and struggle for its freedom.
    But to be able to live they need to eat food, they can not cultivate the land the way they were doing in the past. The oxen have been killed, seed is burnt and fertiliser is not available. When they do manage to cultivate, if an offensive began, enemy Jets and gunships flyover and set the harvest on fire.
    To relieve their difficulties and enable to stay in their country they need external support.
    In Afghanistan there are areas which are not suffering as much as others and which can grow food to feed the neighbouring hard-hit areas. All provide
 the Soviets food and other essential commodities for the towns under their control and the Mujahideen and people in the liberated area are
 able to buy food from the market.
AFGHAN
therefore food is available but at higher prices. Transportation of food frora outside, except for the border area is1 an economic and dan-gerous job. The solution is cash for food.
   Ilujahideen in most areas have developed a civil administration system to distribute funds for      food and collect reports and accounts.
The problem is to convince the relief organizations that these programmes can be conducted efficiently and with great effect. There is now enough experience in this field for the reasonable donor can put.his confidence in the successful organization of this aid. The only problem remaining is malting the decision to help the needy people inside the co~
untry-                  .      N_'b_W_S                   ■       V.
                            BALKH PROVINCE
24^11-35
In an ambush in 1 larmoul (10 ioa from Nazar city) Kujahideen from Jamiat-killed 12 Soviet soldiers and captured one. (this news was ’reported by Afghan News without the date).
25^11^35
During a successful operation, kujahideen from Jamiat destroyed ten Communist regime tanks in Balkh District. Eight AX-47s were captured and some enemy soldiers were killed.
29-11-35
Mujahideen attacked militia posts in Charsang village (near Jazar city). They captured 15 militias with 13 different types of guns.
£5-12-35
ilujahideen attacked the Communist regime's district headquarters of Da-wlat /..bad with a 107 mm rocket. The enemy suffered great losses. No details have been reported.
27-11-85
Ilujahideen from Jamiat in 3alkh district ambushed an enemy convoy and destroyed six tanks and /.PCs, Eleven AK-47s were captured in the operation.
8-12-35
In an engagement between Ilujahideen and Communist forces which continued for 14 hours, 5 tanks were destroyedinc I Jo casualty figures from either side have been given:   the report. Fighting took place near :lHee-
wadi Palas poosh” and two helicopters were also shot down.
17-12-35
Two officers and one soldier of the Communist regime killed six puppet regime officers and, joined Ilujahideen with oudifferent types of weapons. The incident took place in Ghoolger district. The enemy retaliated by launching an attack against Mujahideen. Fighting continued for ten days. Two APCs and four trucks were destroyed. Ho casualty figures from either side are given in the report.
        23^12-35
        Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Kaldar district, Twenty soldiers Joined Mujahideen, they brought with them 31 guns and some ammunition.                        H§5AT_PHgVIIjCB >
        It is reported that the Soviets, after their last offensive against Herat city, planted anti-personnel mines along the routes coming to the city and established some posts to protect the city. Mug'abideen clea-^ red most of the mine fields, during the clearing operation some Kuja-hids were killed.
        19-1-36
        Mujahideen attacked the newly established posts of Mawlana Jarui pyiafi, Imam Fakhri kazi headquarters and inflicted great losses on the-enemy.-v During the operation, 30 l-Z.C-47s and five heavy machinguns were captured. The enemy posts were wiped out from the area.
                                   T^I-jAR^gROVIIjCE
        29-12-35
        Mujahideen attacked post Mo. 6 of Khuja Ghar district. Fighting continued for 3 hours, six Communists were killed and two P?SH machinguns were captured. One Mujahid was injured. The next day the enemy bombed the villages which caused some material losses.
                                                       *C“\.
                            THE BHH'flr.LAST OFFENSIVE IN SKBI4ALI
  ‘<!#r Afghan News reported on the enemy offensive against Ghem&li. IJov/ we have detailed reports of what happened.
        The enemy forces which had gathered in Bagran wanted to clear the road p between Bagram and the garrison in Kapisa. Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Chaheen engaged the enemy neaj: Abdullah Burg bridge (this bridge is on the Panjshir river).
        They were stopped for a three days. The enemy three directional attacks which were an attempt to encircle and destroy the Mujahideen faced severe resistance . The enemy air forces and long-range artillary pounded the area. Nine posts vie re established between the garrison end Bagram. Mujahideen attacked these posts and forced them to leave the area. As a result of the - fighting in this area 35 tantes and trucks were destroyed and about 200 enemy soldiers (Soviets and their puppets) were killed or -wounded.
        Five soldiers (from the Communist regime) joined the Mujahideen, 2 AIC~
  V,' d-7s guns and some food were captured. Four Kujahids werev martyred and seven others wounded.
        25—12—35                           •  -
        iUjahideen from Jamiat in Xohistan under the Command of Doctor Kaqbin attacked a puppet post of Gulbahar Textile Mills. The post suffered casualties. Two Soviet tanks and one Khad Jeep which were supposed to bring reinforcements for the posts vie re ambushed end destroyed. Among those
        who were killed was
an important officer of the local Khad
 •?
4
 I
       In a separate incident in Gulbahar on the 27-12-35, at the mounth of'the ’ Panjshir valley, Mujahideen killed IS Xaroal troops including an officer.' Cn the 26-12-35, the enemy launched a massive attacked Against the {Mujahideen positions in Kohband of Kohistan. Mujahideen under the command of Bahlool ambushdd the invading forces and inflicted great losses on
        them.
        Enemy planes which were bombing Mujahideen positi&ps hit their own positions by mistake and about 30 were killed (thanks God).
        mujahideen from Jaraiat in Jabul Saraj under the command of brigadier Jai-lani carried on the following operations t
        On 25—12—35, the enemy tried to encircle the area from Gulbahar to Tap-, par--Ear of Kohistan but faced Mujahideen resistance. Fighting continued for 5 days, 20 soldiers including a Soviet officer were killed And the enemy failed to achieve its aim.
        20-12-35                                                   %
                                                             ' b      .
        Mujahideen from Jam at in the Mat talc area (between jaul Saraj and Char-ikar) killed two militias .-and wounded 'one.
       21-12-35  '
       They ambushed a Soviet convoy, killed 9 Soviets, destroyed one tank and four trucks full ox ammunition. One Mujahid was injured . These operation took place on the Kabul Salang highway.
       0^25-11-35
       the enemy launched its offensive against Mujahideen positions in the flat parts of Parwan province. Aerial and artillary bombardment was very severe which caused much destruction. Casualties among civilians were•high.
       Mujahideen from J ami at under the command of iiaji Enayat resisted well.
       One hundred enemy soldiers were killed and 7 tanks and trucks were destroyed by MFC fire. Four Mujahids were martyred and 20 others injured. Three AK-47s and some ammunition were captured.
           -« /*; o
       Mujahideen from Jamiat in Totam-Dara under the command of Hukum Khan (who carried signs of more than one hundred injuries on his body) atta.-cked militia posts and killed and wounded a large number of men. Two AX-47S gun and some ammunition wan captured.
       Mujahideen resistance in Bagram was good.
       The conclusion is that enemy failed to achieve its aim of increasing its post in the area and retreated with many casualties.
       Coordination between Jamiat groups was good and Commander Kasoud is happy sJbout the performance of Kuj'ahideen.
       Casualties among civilians due to indiscriminate bombardment was heavy and people lost their houses and properties.
                                                        5
                                   LI2-I2.„5J2I_II§l-.Yi$Z2y§„5§§JS1_I§
       ■ Ja.nlat Is 1 ami of Afghanistan condemns Zionist violation of the sanctity of the Holy Mosque of Al-Aqsa.
       The people of Afghanistan who are dedicated muslins are deeply hurt by Zionist acts which degrade the third holiest mosque of Islam. The muslin world should v/ake up a.nd defend itself against all foriegn designs against itself. Lip service to Palestine, could not help thef nation and could not free the holy land from Zionist occupation. Divisions among members of the muslin wotId is one of the reason for our failure. Tut more destructive is lack of faith for the cause of Islam. Officially muslin countries support Palestine and the liberation ¥ AL-Aqsa Mosque but people are not ready to make any sacrifices for it. This naive approach has encouraged invaders and aggressors to continue their occupation of Palestine and Afghanistan and create the tragic
       events of South Yemen. The solution to all these problems.is honest
                                              »
       adherence to Islam and readiness to take the necessary Sacrifices.
                      lSSSmjGERuOF_DEATH_/UjTD__DESTRUCTION
       Communism is the messenger of death and destruction. This is true about Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Angola, Cambodia and South Yemen.
       Cnee more Communism showed its ugly face in the events of South Yemen.
                                                           *r-.
       More than ten thousand people were killed in fighting between the communist factions. South Yemen being the only Communist state in the Arab
       world is a close' ally of the Soviet Union.
       The Soviets have strategic interests in South Yemen. They had a large number of military advisors in the country. The situation in South Yemen is siMliar to the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The future lea-der appointed in Moscow condemns the previous leader as a Pacist element He pledges to fee a faithful follower of Moscow policies. The Soviets installed another Tabrak F.armal in Couth Yemen while deceiving the world by evacuating their civilian citizens. All this happened when the Arab world was kept busy by the so-called American invasion of L;ibya.
       The Soviets are becoming sophisticated in their policies while the rest of the world consoles themselves with hollow promises of Soviet leadership for peace.