Vol 8, No 10 & 11                                          June 1,1992
Kozyrev pays visit to Kabul
    Andrei Kozyrev, the foreign minister of Russian Federation , arrived in Kabul on April 13 to discuss issues of mutual concern with the leaders of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
    During his one-day visit, Kozyrev met the president. Prof. Sibghatullah Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani, the head of the Leadership Council, Ahmad Shah Masood, the defence minister, and officials of the Afghan foreign ministry.
    In these meetings, the Russian raised the issue of Soviet prisoners of war who were captured by.^the Mujahideen during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. As a gesture of good will, Ahmad Shah Masood announced the release of one Soviet POW who was captured by the Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council. The prisoner was to accompany Kozyrev back to Russia but due to technical problems he did not arrive on time. Some days later, he was handed over to the Russian embassy in Kabul.
    The Afghan officials insisted that Russia assume its due share of the burden of reconstruction in postwar Afghanistan, since the Red Army was responsible for much of the devastation; and that the Russians provide maps of the minefields they sowed throughout the Afghan countryside.
    The Afghan leaders also demanded the return of Afghan children sent to Russia and other countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States by the former communist regime. They insisted that Russia should provide information about missing Afghans thought to be jailed in the former Soviet Union.
    Kozyrev promised his country's assistance and cooperation in regard to all die Afghan demands.
    In a joint declaration both sides condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. But Kozyrev disavowed Russian responsibility for the invasion of Afghanistan, characterizing the CIS as victims of the same corrupt system which oppressed Afghanistan.
                Masood tells story of
                           's victory
    The following is the text of the first press conference addressed by Ahmad Shah Masood, the Defence Minister of the interim Islamic government of Afghanistan, held in the Foreign Ministry building in Kabul on May 8,1992.
    A great many foreign and Afghan journalists attended the conference.       First, Masood
briefed them about developments before and immediately after transfer of power. Then he answered journalists' questions.
     First, I welcome all of you to free and Islamic Afghanistan, and I appreciate the role of journalists in informing the world about developments in our country.
     As you know, die people of Afghanistan started Jehad soon after the communists took power in Kabul in 1978. Motivated by Islamic ideals, they fought the Soviet Union and its puppet nilers for 14 years and succeeded ip defeating the enemy super power. They not only freed Afghanistan, but they also helped many other countries to get rid of communist dictatorships.
                               StyQrtfth(e.ws wishes a happy
                                ‘EiduCSldfia to its Muslim readers
     When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, many people could not imagine that one day the Mujahideen would achieve victory and that Soviet Union would be defeated. Referring to historical examples, they argued that a country occupied by the Soviet Union could not be liberated. But we believed from the start of Jehad that, one day, we would be able to free our country.
     During the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan we remained confident of our ultimate victory. With the passage of time, we grew more certain that the final victory of the Afghan Mujahideen was imminent
     When Soviet troops were withdrawn from Afghanistan, some people thought that the Mujahideen would be able to overthrow the communist regime in Kabul within weeks. This was the view of those who knew little about the nature of Afghan people and whose information about the situation in Afghanistan was imprecise. We told the world at that time that the Mujahideen needed several years after tiie withdrawal of Soviet troops to topple the Kabul regime.
   . When the victory was delayed and .attack (Mi Jalalabad faced problems, many people became disappointed and thought that Mujahideen were not able to defeat the Kabul regime. This too was the view of those who knew little about the Afghan people and the real situation in the country. While others woe disappointed, we had declared that the Kabul regime could be defeated militarily and that we needed time to do that We followed our strategy and prepared for the military defeat of the regime.
     Two years and some months after the Soviet troop withdrawal, the Supervisory Council was in position to launch strategic military offensives. In order to further insure the success of these operations, we wanted to coordinate our attacks with other Mujahideen
To back page
AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
Afghan situation key to
 Barnett R. Rubin fa
     The crumbling of the Soviet' installed regime in Afghanistan does not signify merely the end of the last Cold War conflict. It also marks the end of the divisions imposed by European colonialism on Central Asia. Whether Afghanistan reconsolidates or relapses into factional fighting will affect the entire region from Turkey and Iran, through the newly independent Central Asian republics of the former USSR, to Pakistan and India.
     No single state ever ruled this area, but long-distance trade along roads like the famed Silk Route bound it together. The advance of European empires in the nineteenth century divided it Russia conquered the peoples of Turkestan, while the British took India and advanced toward Afghanistan. Ultimately the British and Russians agreed to leave Afghanistan an isolated buffer state.
     The divisions only deepened with the conquest of Russian Turkestan by Soviet power. Not only did the new state close the borders even more completely; it also tried to transform the areas societies and culture. The Soviets tried to substitute the more "modem" identity of "nationality" for identification with Islam. Out of a disparate group of people, they recognized five "nationalities:" Kazakh, Kirghiz, Turkmen, Uzbek, and Tajik, the first four speaking dialects of Turkic and the last of Persian.
     To isolate these peoples further, Moscow imposed the Russian Cyrillic script instead of the Perso-Arabic script previously in use. Each "nationality" received a republic, with minorities whose presence posed a permanent threat of conflict, while Russians held most of the real power.
     The independence of India and Pakistan in 1947 preceded by only a few years the advent of the Cold War into the region. Afghanistan now stood between the USSR to the north and the U.S.-aligned          Central Treaty
 Organization, including Turkey, Iran, and Pakistan, to the south. U.S-Soviet competition in Afghanistan was a major cause of the turmoil in that country, set off by a coup by pro-Soviet officers in 1978.
     In 1989 Gorbachev withdrew the 100,000 troops his predecessors had sent to prop up the Afghan Communists. That unsuccessful war was one of many failures that discredited the Soviet system, ultimately lead-
 ing to the dissolution of the USSR and the independence of the Central Asian Republics. After the Soviets withdrew their troops, however, their continued aid enabled the regime they left behind to survive for three years. President Najibuilah, the former secret police chief, renounced his ideology. He managed to manipulate the ethnic divisions of Afghan society and the factionalism in his own party to stay in power. But the end of the Cold War, and last January's resultant termination of Soviet and American aid to both sides of the conflict, spelled the end of his rule.
    All sides had seen Afghanistan as the key to Central Asia. As long as the latter was under Soviet rule, Islamic militants in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Saudi Arabia, as well as Cold Warriors in Washington, saw aid to the most extreme fundamentalist parties in Afghanistan as a way to spread revolt northward. With the independence of the Central Asian republics, however, Pakistan's political and business establishment decided that their future lay in reopening the old trade routes through Afghanistan. Hence in the past few months Pakistan too ended aid to the extremists and came to support a peace settlement
    The approach of this settlement, mediated by the United Nations, set off the maneuvering that has shattered the Kabul regime. The ruling party split along largely ethnic lines. The Tajik and Uzbek ex-Communists ousted Najibuilah, a member of the long dominant Push tun (Afghan) ethnic group, which also predominates among the resistance groups exiled among their coethnics in northwest Pakistan. The coup leaders hoped to assure their survival by allying themselves with Tajik commander Ahmad Shah Masood. Pushtuns in both Afghanistan and Pakistan feared a Tajik-Uzbek takeover and perhaps the unification of Northern Afghanistan with its co-ethnic republics to the north. Masood, however, has used Islamic and nationalist appeals to bring many Push tun commanders into his coalition. He has largely isolated Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, who has tried but so far foiled, to play the ethnic card.
    '. The communist policy of assigning people to rigidly defined "nationalities" has provoked ethnic conflict Opportunist or extremist leaders may attempt to profit from it. But other leaders, such as Masood, can work for coalitions spanning-ethnic groups. Indeed,
 despite the fear of "Islam” in the West, the belief in equality of all Muslims can help limit the destructive power of ethnic rivalries. Nor do these conflicts necessarily lead to separatism.
     Finally, the power of external forces is limited. Today many speak of competition in Central Asia between an Iranian "fundamentalist" model and a Turkish "secular” one. The people of Central Asia, however, are not passive recipients of models. For all the billions of dollars in weapons and other supplies that so many powers have sent into Afghanistan since 1978, none of them now has much leverage over events there.
     Nevertheless, these complex socie- j ties will need international aid to recover from devastating war and misrule. Whatever transitional government assumes power in Kabul, it will require urgent supplies of food and medicine and long-term reconstruction. The U.S. and the rest of the international community, which contributed so generously to the war, have a responsibility -and an interest— in contributing the smaller amounts required for the peace and stability of Central Asia. But if this aid is built only on fear of "Islam" or "separatism," it will be misdirected and foil. As much as the halves of divided Europe, the reuniting halves of Central Asia do not merely threaten us but promise to contribute to our common world by recreating a great civilization no longer divided against itself.
                                                                   •M
     Barnett Rubin is an associate professor at Columbia University. He is an expert on Afghanistan and has written many papers on the subject.
                                                                    r
        The Leadership Council has renamed Eid Gah mosque in Kabul as Masjid-Al-Fath (the victory mosque) and has directed that the main Friday congregational prayers should be held there. The Mujahideen leaders will take turns leading the Friday prayers in Masjid-Al-Fath.
        The mosque has enough space for parking vehicles and is suitable from a security standpoint
        However, does not have any facilities for ablutions and needs to be modified for use during the harsh Kabul winters. The fust Friday prays in Masjid-Al-Faih was led by Prof. Rabbani on May 15.
        The leaders may make take the opportunity of the Friday prayer assembly to express theirviews about issues facing the country.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1, 1992, page ©
home
     Pakistan is preparing to repatriate more than three million Afghan refugees after the solution of the Afghan problem.
     A high-level meeting of, Pakistani officials directed the concerned authorities to prepare a complete list of Afghans living in the cities. Most of the Afghans living in the refugee camps are registered with the government of Pakistan, and are entitled to food assistance by UNHCR.
     The remaining Afghan refugees live in the cities and work to support themselves. Some Pakistanis have expressed concern that many refugees may not return home because they have a better economic life in Pakistan than in Afghanistan. But recent UN figures show that more than 7,000 refugees return to Afghanistan from Pakistan each day. This does not include a great number of unregistered refugees who return without getting any assistance from the UN.
     Pakistan will ask die international community to provide funds for the repatriation of Afghan refugees.
     Iran has also contacted the UN for assistance in repatriating about two million Afghan refugees. Radio Iran reported that Hezb Wahdat had asked the Islamic Republic of Iran to help the repatriation of Afghan refugees. Disputing the report, a spokesman of Hezb Wahdat said that die situation in Afghanistan was not suitable for the immediate return of the refugees. He argued that the economy of the country could not cope with a massive repatriation of the refugees.
    In brief
    The national airlines of Afghanistan, Ariana Afghan Airlines, resumed flights to Teheran on May 13 after a 14- year hiatus. For the time being there is to be one
 flight weekly on Thursday.
             •
    The Leadership Council of Afghan istandissolved Watan Party on May 6, the spokesman of the council Shaikh Asif Mohsini told reporters.
    The council also dissolved the cabinet, senate, the national assembly and the secret police of the former regime.
     Changiz Pahlawan, a professor of Teheran University, has advised the Iranian government to deal with refugees with the utmost care, so that they return to their country with good memories of their host country.
     The UN and other relief organizations should provide support for the unregistered refugees who want to return. Transportation cost are so great that most refugees are not able to transport their families and belongings.
     Each registered refugee family receives about 300 kilograms of wheat and Rs. 3,000 ( $150) for transportation costs.
     It might take one year for most of the refugees to return home. The government of Pakistan has lifted restrictions on transporting food to Afghanistan. The refugees have been allowed to take with them their moveable belongings; occasionally corrupt officials between Peshawar and Torkham create problems for refugees, trying to extort money from them.
     Convoys of trucks loaded with refugees leave the border for different parts of Afghanistan every day. Regular bus service operates between Kabul and Peshawar. The road is safe and the Mujahideen cooperate with the passengers. The effect of the Refugees' return is visible in Peshawar. There are fewer cars and buses on the streets of Peshawar. The residents of some parts of Peshawar are facing transportation difficulties because most of the Afghan buses operating in their areas have left Peshawar.
      Ariana Afghan Airlines has began its weekly flights between Kabul and Peshawar. The price for a one-way ticket is $80.
 Afghans’ strike ends in China
    A group of Afghan asylum seekers called off a hunger strike in Beijing on May 9 after UN officials accepted their demands, a spokesman for the group said.
    Earlier, Chinese police told some 70 Afghans protesting in front of the officer of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) that they were breaking Chinese law and would have to leave.
    The protesters, who began a hunger strike on May 1 to pressure the UNHCR to accept them as refugees, left quietly in two police buses that took them back to hotels where they have been living since arriving in China.
    UNHCR chief of mission Peirre-Michel Fontaine later met with several Afghan representatives and agreed to issue them certificates, on a case-bycase basis. ,
 Harakat unites
    Three rival factions of Harakat Inqilab Islami Afghanistan have decided to merge into a single party under the leadership of Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi, a Harakat source told reporters in Peshawar on May 2.
    Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Moazin, the heads of the smaller factions, will serve as the deputies of the leader of Harakat in the reunited party.
    Nabi's original Harakat is led mostly by traditional Ulama (clergy) with considerable backing in most parts of Afghanistan. Its policies generally are moderate, and are usually coordinated with Prof. Mujaddidi and Sayyed Ahmad Gailani.
    Mawlawi Mansoor and Mawlawi Moazin developed close ties with the government of Iran after they formed their own factions.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1, 1992, page @
"\
     Editorial
                                                      —
 Elections sole path to peace
     The most important tasks facing the Islamic state of Afghanistan are consolidation of the Islamic government and provision of security in the country.
     The Soviet invasion devastated Afghanistan's economy, society, culture and political system. Government control over the affairs of the country is nominal. Afghanistan is ruled by a patchwork of different Mujahideen groups.
     To lead Afghanistan towards peace and guarantee the protection of the citizenry's lives, property and honor, the Mujahideen leaders must struggle to restore a strong government.
     Areas outside Kabul are generally peaceful, because different Mujahideen groups developed local administrations during the years of Jehad which are able to maintain security. The situation in Kabul is an exception. All the Mujahideen' groups have brought a large number of their armed men to the city.
     The Supervisory Council, headed by Ahmad Shah Masood, had planned a peaceful transfer of power from the former regime to the Mujahideen. The com-jj manders of the vast majority of the armed forces guarding Kabul were ready to j submit (o the Mujahideen. Their units were to continue their duties, for the time j being, securing the lives and property of the peopleof Kabul under Mujahideen command.
      Demobilization and reorganization, under a new Islamic order, could have proceeded step by step. Armed groups of Mujahideen, who vary greatly in their levels of training and discipline, were not to enter the city. Most important, all Mujahideen leaders agreed to this plan ~ with the exception of one.
     Hundreds of armed members of the Hezb Islami of Gulbuddin Hikmatyar -with the complicity of a minority of hardline communist officers and officials in the ministries of Defense and the-Interior - infiltrated the city in a naked grab for absolute control.
     This disrupted the rings of security posts surrounding the city, for many troops, finding themselves bypassed and irrelevant, simply gave up and went home. This paved the way for the entry into Kabul of thousands of armed Mujahideen of different groups from all directions. Some of these groups lack discipline.
     The presence of too many armed Mujahideen under too many commanders endangers the peace and stability of the capital. The Security Commission has decided to form combined security forces from the Mujahideen of different groups and to evacuate armed Mujahideen from the city. But these plans have not been carried out due both to some parties' refusal to cooperate and the lack of control by some parties over their Mujahideen.
     Some members of the former regime, along with criminals freed from jail at the same time as political prisoners, have exploited the confusion and armed themselves. They threaten the Islamic government and the citizens of Kabul.
     Political understanding between the Mujahideen parties is the key to providing security for the people of Kabul. It is also vital for consolidation of the new government and for reconstruction. To this end, Ahmad Shah Masood has signed an agreement with Hikmatyar to avoid repeating the unhappy events prompted by Hezb immediately after the fall of the communist regime.
      In order to solve these issues, the agreement signed by the Mujahideen parties on the modalities for transfer of power must be implemented faithfully. Talk of prolonging the term of office of Prof. Mujaddidi and holding a traditional Loya Jirga could destabilize the situation further.
      The final goal of the interim government should be to give the people of Afghanistan a chance to vote as soon as possible.
      Only a government which comes to power through the people's verdict will have legitimacy. Only a government of popular choice will have the power to
                                                 To page (5)
 UN continues to host the ousted dictator
    Najib, the head of the communist regime, went into hiding in one of the UN offices in Kabul after an abortive attempt to leave the country. He is still the guest of the world body.
    His brother, his personal secretary and bodyguard are with him, along with one woman and two children. It is said that they pass their time by watching TV. Najib is given permission by the UN to contact his wife in India through a satellite telephone.
    The UN special envoy Benon Sevan tried to help Najib escape to India on April 16 after the Mujahideen captured Bagram air base, 40 kilometers north of the capital. The attempt failed when security forces at the airport refused to allow the UN plane to leave with the fallen dictator on board.
    Die UN envoy justify his attempt to rescue Najib on the grounds that he had given him assurance of safe exit as part of a political solution under the UN auspices. The UN peace plan collapsed during its final stages when the Mujahideen captured Charikar and Bagram Air Base.
    The Mujahideen have forgiven other members of the former regime. But some Mujahideen argue that the general amnesty announced by the Islamic government does not apply to Najib, who resisted the Mujahideen till the last day of his rule.
 Iranian envoy meets leaders
    Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, president of the Leadership Council, met with the Iranian special envoy, Mir Mahmoud Mosavi on May 18. The two leaders discussed developments after the victory of the Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani asked for the assistance of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the reconstruction of devastated Afghanistan.
    Mosavi also met other Afghan leaders. Iran has recognized the Islamic government in Kabul, but has asked for just treatment of all ethnic and religious groups in the country.
    Hezb Wahdat, which has close ties with Iran, has not participated in the government It demands that one-fourth of the cabinet seats should be allocated k) that party. Hezb Wahdat claims to represent the Shia community and insists that Shias form more than 25 percent of the population of Afghanistan.
AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
Obituary
Mawlawi Abdur Razaq is dead
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq, 85, renowned scholar and a Mujahid from Pushal valley of Nooristan, died three months ago.
     He was buried in his native vil-lage, Guzeen. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was a respected figure not only in his valley, but also was known in other parts of Nooristan, Laghman and Panjshir valley.
     When the communists look power in Kabul in 1978, Mawlawi Razaq declared Jehad. He led the Mujahideen of his valley against the communist regime forces in Laghman. He also brought a force of more than 1500 Mujahideen to help Masood in the neighboring Panjshir valley.
     Poor health did not allow Mawlawi Abdur Razaq to continue taking part in armed struggle. But he always served the Mujahideen selflessly.
     Nooristan, an area through which supply lines of the Mujahideen passed, became a target of the communist regime's subversive activities. Najib hired Colonel Sarwar, a native of Nooristan and a communist, to organize the people of Nooristan against the Mujahideen.
     Sarwar was using material assistance and propaganda to rally the people behind himself. He had succeeded in deceiving Mawlawi Abdur Razaq and getting his approval for landing regime helicopters that brought food and guns to be distributed among the people in Pushal valley. Sarwar pretended that supplies were being smuggled in by his supporters, hidden within the regime army, and Mawlawi Razaq believed this lie. For two long years, this
 game was being played successfully. Finally, the Mawlawi became suspicious about Sarwar's intentions and ordered him not leave the valley or he would be declared a non-Muslim. But Sarwar escaped the valley and a dangerous plot was foiled.
     There has been very little government authority in that part of Nooristan. The people brought their financial, family and criminal cases to Mawlawi Razaq to solve them. He had extraordinary patience in dealing with the local problems.
     Mawlawi served as the host of travellers and the caretaker of sick and wounded. He fed the travellers and the sick personally.
     His humane qualities made him a spiritual man, a political leader and a guardian of the Islamic values in a remote area of Afghanistan.
     Mawlawi's father was exiled by King Abdur Rahman in Logar. Abdur Razaq returned to Nooristan when he was 20 years old.
   CHANGE OF ADDRESS
  We are happy to inform you that AFGHANews
  has moved from Peshawar to Kabul.
  Please send your letters to the following new address:
  AFGHANews
  P.O.Box 274
  Kabul - Afghanistan
From page (4)
                                                                                                                                                      a|teE:<ronftselt^
deal with the situation effectively. All the Mujahideen should work tirelessly to pave the way for holding elections in the shortest possible time.
     If it is discovered that some aspects of the Peshawar agreement are not practical, members of the Leadership Council can modify them - preferably without exploiting the mass media to air their individual views.
     Holding elections will provide a means to solve most of the problems the country is facing. Each political party claims to enjoy the support of the majority of Afghan people. Based on these claims, they are insisting on a greater share in the government. The result of elections will put an end to the exaggerated claims of some parties.
     The creation of stable government with the support of the majority of Afghans will pave the way for foreign assistance needed for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     The formation of such a government will also put an end to interference by foreign countries that want to shape the future of Afghanistan to serve their own national interests.
     Jami’at is ready to cooperate with other Mujahideen parties for the purpose of consolidating the Islamic government and providing security in Kabul, and
 ter, Wad^SaS* was released on Mayi
AFGHANews Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
The victors return after years of exile
     The Airplane was preparing to land. Passengers were trying to get a glimpse outside. As the plane touch the ground, they shouted Allah-u-Akber -God is great!
     The passengers began to say prayers as soon as they got out of the plane. They wanted to thank Allah who had enabled them to return victoriously to free Afghanistan. Most of the 60 passengers in the plane were young Afghans who were returning to Kabul after the fall of the communist regime and the establishment of an Islamic government. Some Arabs and Western journalists were also in the AN-32 military plane which flew them from Peshawar to Kabul on May 1.
     The Mujahideen returning home weie very excited. Most of them had left the country at least ten years ago. Since the events leading to the fall of the regime had happened so quickly, they wondered whether their return was a reality or a sweet dream.
     For me, it was the happiest moment of my life. I had left Kabul 17 years ago and had always prayed for a victorious return.
     The thing which struck me the most was the number of helicopters and transport planes parked in the airport Such a large number of planes for such a poor country was an extraordinary thing. An air force officer told us that the Soviets left behind 1,000 helicopters, jets and transport planes when they withdrew their troops from Afghanistan in 1989.
     As the evening approached, the sky of Kabul was lit up by tracer bullets fired from all sorts of weapons as the Mujahideen celebrated their long-awaited victory. But this type of celebration not only wasted a lot of money but also posed serious threat to the people of Kabul. The repeated government appeals on radio and TV to stop firing in the air were ignored.
     We moved towards the city in convoy of cars. After each few hundred meters, there was a security post that asked for identification papers. Since die government offices, TV and radio stations are located along this road, the tight security measures could be justified. One day before our arrival, the forces loyal to Hikmatyar who had been shelling the area were driven off a hilltop overlooking the airport.
     We spent the night in the Ariana Hotel near the Presidential Palace. It had no electricity and water, but our hosts did everything they could to make our stay comfortable.
     After sunrise, I went out on the hotel lawn to have a view of the capital Kabul was more beautiful than I had pictured it in
Mohammad Es'haq PART ONE

 my memory. 1 had spent the best-eight years of my life in Kabul as a student at die Afghan Institute of Technology and Faculty of Engineering.
     Life was returning to normal in the city and people walked to work., but there were few vehicles on the road because of fuel shortages.
     While I enjoyed watching Kabul, Abdullah Anas, an Arab friend and a supporter of Jehad, came out onto the lawn of die hotel. He seemed extremely happy about the victory of die Mujahideen.
     He is a leading member of the Peshawar-based Services Office, founded by late Abdullah Ezam, which extended support to die Mujahideen and needy Afghans during die years of Jehad. Abdullah Ezam, a strong supporter of Jehad, was martyred along with the two of his sons in a bomb explosion in Peshawar. EzamV martyrdom deprived young Arabs involved in Afghan Jehad from a wise leader.
     The Services Office publishes a weekly paper in Arabic, called Sadal Jehad, in Peshawar. In its last issue of April, it had published the exaggerated claims of Hezb Island about that party's role in liberation of Kabul. When asked about the contests of the paper, Abdullah Anas, admitted that the paper had printed the claims of Hezb without enough investigation due to shortage of time.
     The incident shows the tremendous difficulties that Jehad has been facing in relation to its outside supporters, especially Arab organizations. Most of Arabs have always taken side with one Mujahideen group or the other.
     The majority of young Arabs involved in Jehad have supported Hikmatyar s policies towards the new Islamic government in Kabul. Similarly, Januutt Islami of Pakistan, under the leadership of Qazi Hussain Ahmad, has been taking rides with Hikmatyar against the Islamic government in Kabul. Not only these groups have been involved in propaganda against die Islamic government, but Arab and Jamaat Islami of Pakistan's volunteers also have been taking part in fighting against the forces of Islamic government in KabuL
     The former army chief of Pakistan, General Mirza Aslam Beg, took a pro-Hikmatyar stand. He accused forces of foe Islamic Army of being responsible for the bloodshed after foe fall of Najib’s regime, and criticized Commander Masood for leaving Panjsher to capture Charikar and Bagram.
     Views expressed by some Arabs, Qazi
 Husain Ahmad and some retired army offi cersof Pakistan created many doubts in foe minds of Muslims all over the world about the Islamic nature of the government in Kabul. They involved themselves in spreading negative propaganda to cover up their past mistakes of promoting Hezb as foe strongest Mujahideen party. They were dis appointed by foe poor performance of Hezb in the events that led to foe fall of the communist regime in KabuL
      Foreign involvement in foe internal politics of the Mujahideen has not remained limited only to extending financial assis tance to their favorite parties. Jamilur Rahman, the leader of a religious party in Kunar, was killed by an Arab at a time when his forces were involved in fierce dashes with Hezb Islamic over control of Kunar. Some Mujahideen are afraid of similar incidents involving outsiders.
      To meet Ahmad Shah Masood, foe Defense Minister of foe Islamic Government of Afghanistan, I went to foe Ministry of WAD, the secret police of foe former regime. Yaqoubi, foe head of WAD, killed himself in this building when he heard about Najib's abortive attempt to flee KabuL
      A huge gout of dried blood stains foe gold carpet in front of his desk, where he died. Clearly someone had made the effort to scrub it out, but too late to do much good.
      A smaller, traditional carpet has been thrown over the blotch in foe interest of good taste. But it remains as a reminder to the new leaders that power is nobody's forever. Power is to be used in the service of Islam and people of the country.
      As usual Masood was friendly. His enormous power has not affected his good manners. He does not like to be called minister by his friends and has ven ordered TV and Radio to stop calling him "General." This tide was given to him by Prof. Mujaddidi when he was the head of foe Islamic Interim Government based Peshawar.
      I attended the first press conference of Masood in the foreign ministry building. I also attended some interviews he gave to journalists and the meetings he held with Jami'at delegations. Following is the summary of his views about the events before and after foe fall of Najib's regime:
      The Supervisory Council played foe key role in liberation of Kabul. The events which led to foe collapse of the communist regime started with foe fall of Khost in Paktia and Khwaja Ghar and major parts of Badakhshan in the north.
      Differences between regime forces, in foe North, became acute at foe start of the current year. Jami'at liberated all districts of Balkh province and half of the city of Mazar. The liberation of Salang, Charikar
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
 and Bagram by Jami'at Islami created a crisis for the Kabul regime. Najib tried to escape the country but failed. Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil went to Jabulseraj to talk with commander Masood and agreed to transfer power to the Mujahideen.
     Commander Masood then contacted the Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar and informed them about the readiness of the regime to transfer power to the Mujahideen. He asked the leaders to form a government which would be acceptable to all sections of the Afghan society. While Masood forces were in a position to enter Kabul and take charge, he waited at the gates of the city to let the leaders organize the government.
     The majority of Mujahideen leaders agreed on an arrangement for transfer of power. Hikmatyar refused to join the other parties and insisted on a military takeover of Kabul. The first attack on Kabul launched by Hezb was repulsed on April 26. Rocket attacks by Hezb some days later left 50 dead and more than 200 injured. Most of the casualties were ordinary people. The attacks spoiled the happy mood in the city and opened the way for massive entry of armed Mujahideen into Kabul from all directions. The Hezb Islami attacks are responsible for the current law and order problems in Kabul.
     I accompanied Commander Masood to a meeting with a delegation from the North. They represented the new organization formed under General Dostum and were demanding reasonable representation for their organization. People from Hezb Wahdat, Sayyed Masoor Naderi and General Dostum were included in the delegation. Ironically, the spokesman of the group was Engineer Nasim, the provincial Amir of Hikmatyar’s Hezb in Faryab.
     Hikmatyar had instructed Nasim to move from Faryab to Mazar following the fall of the city, and to cooperate closely with Dostum. The delegation showed Masood a letter which Hikmatyar had sent to General Dostum, in which he had called him a hero and had appreciated his role in opposing Najib. Prof. Mujaddidi released this letter to the press some weeks later.
      Hikmatyar had expressed support for the uprising of the former militia forces in a speech delivered in Peshawar on the occasion of Us tad Ahmad Zai's memorial service. This speech provoked an angry reaction from Prof. Sayyaf in the same meeting.
      Hikmatyar had also written a letter to Sayyed Masoor of Kayan, offering him the command of all Hezb forces in the North.
      While Hikmatyar accused the Islamic government in Kabul of being in coalition with the communists, he enjoyed the full support to several ministers of the Najib regime. In his press conference after meeting with General Rafi, vice president of the communist regime, Hikmatyar praised the role of those who opposed the regime and helped the Mujahideen; but it seems they must support only his own party.
      The situation in Kabul is improving with the passage of time. More vehicles are on tire road; prices of essential commodities are falling; electricity and water are being
 provided to the people and food is available in the market. No queues are seen in front of the bakeries. The decrease in prices of essential commodities have made the people of Kabul optimistic about the future.
      The majority of people are happy about the fall of the communist regime and most of them cooperated with the Mujahideen in the first days of transfer of power. The improvement of the TV and radio programs and wearing of Islamic dress by women are approved by die majority of people in Kabul.
      During the first days after the transfer of power, incidents of looting of public and private properties took place. The government asked the people to return the stolen properties. This was was ignored.
      Although Dostum's men are generally blamed for these incidents, the undisciplined Mujahideen of some other parties, including members of Hezb Islami, were to blame for many cases of looting. Score of city buses were stolen, some of which can be seen operating in Jalalabad.
      Despite the presence of tens of thousands of armed Mujahideen, belonging to different groups, in Kabul, the law and order situation is generally good. But the presence of so many aimed Mujahideen in Kabul is a potential threat to security and stability of the capital.
      It seems that the political,parties want to use the presence of their aimed men to gain concessions from the interim government. There is also a danger that these forces might be used to expand the influence of their own parties and to contain the influence of their rivals.
      Since all the Mujahideen are fed by the government, it is a huge economic burden on the country. To free the city from disorganized armed Mujahideen, it is necessary to create an Islamic army and police as soon as possible. It seems that some political parties within the government are not fully cooperating in creating such a force.
      The saddest thing that I witnessed after my arrival in Kabul was the ethnic realignment of the population. It seems that the problems within the regime have affected the way of thinking of some people. This is indeed an unhappy development. It must be discouraged so that the national unity of the country is not affected. But short-sighted politicians continue to exploit these feelings for their immediate interests.
       The physical shape of the city had changed little in 17 years. The only achievements of Daud and the communists were the construction of two buildings, one 14 story and the other 18 story high, in the center of the city. The dty had expanded but sewage facilities had noL The poor parts of the city were more dirty than before.
       The Mujahideen had announced an amnesty for the former members of the regime, Except for a few cases of assassination, there were no reprisal attacks against the former members of the regime. The announcement by some Mujahideen leaders that they would form a revolutionary court alarmed members of the former regime. The leaders tried to calm the people by saying that there would be no arbitrary arrests and
 summary trails. So far, this court has not been formed.
      The casual dress and way of life of the new rulers of Afghanistan is a strange thing for most Afghans, especially the residents of Kabul. They had been wrongly taught to think that the rulers should wear special clothes and lead a life different from that of ordinary people.
      The new -leaidership, despite their shortcomings, come from the grass roots level. For the first time in the history of Afghanistan, the leaders have emerged from among ordinary people. This is a good thing because the leaders are in a position to know about tte problems of the people. Such a leadership has the potential to create a political system which has the natural support of the people, leaving no room for die imposition of politicians from above.
      Returning to Kabul was an occasion for reunion with friends and families. Many of our cousins needed to be introduced to me, and I was introduced to them. Meeting friends and family created emotional scenes and revived the memory of the past—a time when the country was peaceful.
      In Kabul, I met with some diplomats, foreign reporters, UN and 1CRC workers, Most of them were happy that the Mujahideen had succeeded but seemed worried about their own security. They were uneasy about the presence of a large number of aimed Mujahideen in the streets, hotels and offices. In die meantime, they appreciated lack of reprisal attacks on officials of the former regime.
      Some journalists seemed unhappy about the Mujahideen's decision to close the bars at the hotels and destroy stocks of alcoholic drinks. But the more realistic said that it was the correct decision far the people who had fought under the banner of Islam for more than a decade. They have a right, argued To meet my family I had to go to Panjshii. From Kabul to Jabulseraj, I flew in an Ml-8 Helicopter which was taking supplies to the army unit stationed there.
      This was my first experience to flying in a helicopter. During die years of Jehad, I hated helicopters a lot I discovered that it could be a useful thing once in the hands of friendly people. Helicopters, played a key role in the defense of Kabul by bringing in supplies and men to boost the defense of die city during the first days of transfer of power.
      The people of Panjshir face tremen dous problems. Despite the fall of prices in Kabul, prices of essential goods were high in the valley. High transportation costs are a major factor in this regard.
      The people of the valley also suffer from the threat of landmines. People and their animals are still being killed. Despite enormous publicity, the UN has not sent a survey team to die valley to assess the problem. Panjshir is perhaps the most heavily mined area in Afghanistan.
      Only old men and women' lived in Panjshir. Young men were involved in the protection of Kabul and other cities liberated recently.
                                                                  To be continued
 ----------------------------------------     AFGHANews  Vol8, No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page ©
 Story of Muj ahideen' s victory
 forces in other parts of country.   j                               I     Q: Could you tell us about
    The creation of the Commanders' | From page (I) j Hikmatyar’s conditions?
 Council was aimed at insuring the par-                                    A: He has three conditions: Prof,
 ticipation of all Mujahideen in coordi- Mujahideen parties, in contradiction Sibghatullah Mujaddidi should not be nated action against the regime. Last w*1*1 ***® wishes of the Afghan people the head of die interim administration; year, we succeeded, with cooperation against the interests of the people the period of the interim government from other Mujahideen in different Kabul, planned an attack on the cap- should be very short; and the forces of parts of the country, in launching our ^ *° s®2® P°wer unilaterally.          Rashid Dostum should be withdrawn
 strategic offensive and putting an end J*1® on Kabul was planned from Kabul.
 to what was being called a military a **m® w*1®11 ti*® issue was almost re- q. what is your position on with-stalemate. The Mujahideen captured so*ve(*: |h® Kabul regime had an- drawal of militia forces from Kabul? Khost in Paktia Province, Khwaja Ghar nounce^ readiness to transfer power A: In fact, there are no militia forc-and most of Badakhshan.              to a Mujahideen goverment; the
                                                                       es in the country anymore. The forces In my opinion, the fall of Khost in Mujahideen leaders had agreed to form that Hikmatyar demands be withdrawn the south and the liberation of Khwaja afiovemment      participation of from Kabul are those who played an
 Ghar and the greater part of ®** ***c Mujahideen parties; and this active role in toppling Najib's Badakhshan in the north marked a turn- Sovernment ^ suPpoit of the main government,
 ing point in the Jehad. After these vie- ^S1®®1115 of t*ie Afghan people. There in past all Mujahideen leaders tones we declared that the Kabul re- wa? no los*®®! aad110 religious justifi- had asked regime armed forces to
 gime was not able to resist the military cat*on fOT attac^ ** Kabul.         cooperate in the overthrow of the re-
 operations of the Mujahideen.          By different means, including dis- gime. General Dostum, Sayyed
    As you Know, Mazar was liberat- ®ussions oyer the wireless, I tried to Mansoor Naderi and General Momin ed by Mujahideen in cooperation with P®rsuade Hikmatyar not to attack Kabul have done what the Mujahideen leaders some units of the regime armed forces failed to change his mind. I in- j^ed them to do. These three people some time ago.                       formed the leaders in Peshawar about have considerable forces in the country
    This was followed by great ***® situation and asked them to inform arid they have played a positive role in achievements by the Mujahideen at    ^         P°rition. T*1® leaders ap- tire overthrow of the regime and the de-
 Charikar, the provincial capital of P°*ntc<* a  committee beneath me and fense of Kabul. Therefore, these forces
 Parwan, and at Bagram, the biggest air Pv® ^ committee the job of defend- deserve appreciation, not condemna-base in Afghanistan. These victories iug Kabul and foiling the conspiracy. don. While Hikmatyar opposes the sealed the fate of the communist re- After receiving the instruction cooperation of General Dostum and gime in Kabul.                          ***® Baders, the committee took other forces of the former regime with
    After the fall of Charikar and necessary steps and derailed the die Islamic government, he, in the past, Bagram, the Kabul authorities contact- P^an* which would have led to further had taken ride with similar people, ed us and showed readiness to accept bloodshed. The conspiracy was foiled All of us are aware of a coup joint-some demands of the Mujahideen. 31 a cnt*ca* tu^lc*                           ly planned by Tanai and Hikmatyar. In
 Abdul Wakil, the foreign minister of * assure you that no serious mili- die conspiracy which was to take place the regime, came to Jabulseraj to meet tar^ adventure threatens Kabul any- ^ Kabul, Hikmatyar cooperated with me.                                  more. You see that by the passage of die leading figures from Khalq faction.
    In the meeting, we demanded total ^me, **ie situation is improving. The se- wh0 are committed communists, surrender of the Kabul regime and es- curity committee has begun its work to Hikmatyar is now host to Watanjar, the tablishment of the Mujahideen govern- P10™*® security for the poeple of Defense Minister, Pakteen, the Interior ment in Kabul. I told Wakil that if the Kabul. While thousands of aimed Minister, Manooke Mangal, a close as-regime did not fully transfer power to Mujahideen have entered Kabul, we sociate of Najib, and a great number of the Mujahideen, I would not stop at the have not witnessed major law and order hardline communist figures who stood gates of Kabul, but would capture it by problems in die city. The government by Najib until the last moment. It is force. During the second round of oncers have resumed their work and strange that Hikmatyar demands the talks, Abdul Wakil announced readi- w^h the passage of time the situation withdrawal of forces who helped overness of the regime to transfer power to hnprove farther.            throw the regime while he associates
 the Mujahideen fully and               Now, I am ready to answer your himself with Khalqi communists,
 unconditionally.                    questions:                            q; you rejected Hikmatyar’s pro-
    Receiving the regime message of                                           posal for the withdrawal of militia
 surrender, I contacted most of the lead- , "  . P°st °* *** ™ne forces from Kabul. Isn't that declara-
 ers and commander in, Peshawar and Minister be given to Hezb?                tion of civil war?
 informed them of the situation. I could A: At the start, this post was as- A: As I mentioned, Hikmatyar is have entered Kabul and formed a gov- signed to Hezb Islami, on the condition in a weak position, militarily and politi-enunent, but having in mind die greater ***** Hikmatyar would introduce a caUy, He cannot pose a serious threat interest of the country, my forces m®toto°fl“s party but that he himself to the Islamic government Since most stayed outride Kabul and I turned over wou*(*not assume this post             0f ^ leaders have arrived in Kabul
 the job of forming a government ac- Q*- Is there a ceasefire agreement ^d the majority of Afghans support ceptable to most segments of Afghan ^tween Hezb Islami and the govern- the interim government, there will be society to the party leaders.        ment? Is the withdrawal of militia fore-
                                                                       no civil war in Afghanistan. Mr. While we halted outside the gates 68 “lc*ude<* “*the apeement?            Hikmatyar has isolated himself from
 of Kabul and awaited the determination   "***® *wo rides have agreed to the rest of the Mujahideen. If he starts
 of the Mujahideen leaders, Hezb Islami °*)s®rv® a ceasefire and negotiations any clashes, it will be between him and Hikmatyar, against die decision of the  °**,er Problems still continue.       the rest of the Mujahideen.
lilili «ll
   lNTHE«AMEpFALMIC«TYAI.tAl» ; . ^V'- 7 .. -,'4
&SVv. ■ / / .i .g -
r A ]
  || Jami’al
Vol 8, No 12
June 15,1992
Kabul-Torkham highway under reconstruction
    The government of the United Slates of America will provide funds for the repair of Torkham-Kabul road, a USAID spokesman reported in Islamabad on May 26:
    The repair work will be completed by October of the current year. Construction of two engineering bridges, one concrete bridge with a length of 25 meters, 40 culverts, 300 meters of protective walls and leveling of 40 kilometers of the road will be carried out according to the plan. The construction work will be done by the Afghan Construction , and Logistical Organization, a non-govermcnial Afghan organization based in Peshawar.
    Repair of the road will make the return of refugees easy and safe and help the trade to flourish.
    Travellers arriving from Pakistan say the work on the road has already begun.
Sudan donates food to Kabul
    Sudan has donaLcd 150 tonnes of sugar to the Islamic ^Government of Afghanistan.-
    Gutbi-Al-Mehdi, the head of the Sudanese delegation which visited Kabul during May, said that the donation was a sign of Islamic solidarity of the people of Sudan with the Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    Sudan was one of the five countries which had recognized the Afghan Interim government based in Peshawar. It also allowed the Mujahideen to open an embassy in Khartoum. Several Mujahideen leaders have paid visits to Sudan and scores of Afghan students study in the universities of that country.
    Sudan had established a relief organization in Peshawar to help the Afghan refugees and Mujahideen.
Islamic rule faces a difficult agenda
     One and half months have passed since the transfer of power from the communist regime ip the Mujahideen. Although the Islamic government has made some achievements in providing services and security for the people of Kabul, there remain security, economic and political issues that must be solved.
     Since Hezb Islami forces were driven from Kabul on April 26, the capital has faced ho serious military threats from outside. Rocket attacks launched by Hezb in the first week of May, however, killed or wounded scores of people and terrorized the innocent.
     Efforts by the supporters of Jehad resulted in a cease-fire between Hezb and government troops. Prof. Rabbani met with Hikmaiyar outside Kabul to discuss ways of solving the issue. Later, Masood and Hikmaiyar signed an agreement pledging to solve the problems between the two sides peacefully.
     They agreed on the withdrawal of controversial armed forces from Kabul and holding of elections in the shortest possible time. They stressed that the Peshawar agreement on the lime for transitional government should be implemented.This agreement reduced the chances of attack from south of the capital.
     At the start of May, most of the Mujahideen leaders returned from exile to Kabul. They were accompanied by hundreds of armed men. Their return helped to stabilise of the situation to some extent The leaders decided to convene the meetings of the Leadership Council, comprising the heads of all Mujahideen parties, so that they could cooperate in bringing stability to the country.
     Prof. Mujaddidi had been appointed for a period of two months to complete the job of transfer of power from the former regime to the Mujahideen. He was the first leader to enter Kabul and lake power from the communist
 regime.
     Immediately after assuming power in Kabul, Mujaddidi began to make statements that the ’people' wanted him to stay longer than two months. He used government TV and radio to reflect the wishes of his supporters from different parts of Afghanistan who demanded his term of office be prolonged. To justify his position, he accused other leaders, especially Prof. Rabbani, of breaking the Peshawar agreement which charted the course of the interim Islamic government.
     It seems that the majority of the Mujahideen leaders are in favor of the full implementation of die Peshawar treaty. An attempt by Prof. Mujaddidi to prolong his term of office will push the country into a deep political and military crisis.
     Prof. Mujaddidi leads a small party of the Mujahideen. Using his position as the temporary head of the state, he wanted to win the support of some strong military groups in the country. He promoted many generals, including General Abdur Rashid Dostum. During a visit to the Mazar-i-Sharif, he praised Dostum as a hero arid gave him the highest rank in the Afghan army.
      These were preparatory steps for a deal with the National Islamic Movement of the North, headed by Dostum, and Hezb-i-WahdaL Prof. Mujaddidi did not consult any of the other leaders when making these deals. His statements about other Mujahideen parties have been provocative.
     In May Prof. Mujaddidi paid an official visit to Pakistan where he was given a warm reception. On the way back, his plane was hit by a rocket when it was landing at Kabul airport Mujaddidi accused Hezb Islami of involvement in the 'attack. The Hezb has denied the charge.
To page (8)
                                                         AFGHANews Vol 8 No 10 & 11, June 1,1992, page @                
                                                                                                                        
UN agencies dog Afghan mines                                                                                            
The UN nas donated eight ambu- dog should not be endangered by man-                                                     
lances to two Afghan demining organi- made mines.                                                                       
zations. TTiey are to be used for evacu- Mines are a major obstacles for the                                            
ation of casualties caused by mines. returning refugees and reconstruction     US envoy                                 
The two organizations are Afghan of the country. The Soviets planted be-       pays visit                               
Technical Consultants (ATC), operat- tween 10 and 30 million mines in          to Kabul                                 
ing in the north, east and central parts Afghanistan during over nine years of A three-member American delega-'         
of Afghanistan, and South West occupation.                                     tion, headed by Peter Tomsen, arrived    
Afghan Agency for Demining While the rest of the world has                     in Kabul on June 14 to discuss the situ¬ 
(SWAAD), operating in southern and contributed to demining operations,         ation with Afghan leaders and to study   
western Afghanistan. Russia and the other CIS slates, which                    the possibility of re-opening of the US  
Five ambulances were given to responsible for planting mines in                Embassy in Kabul.                        
ATC and three to SWAAD. These two Afghanistan, have not been                   Tomsen said the purpose of his           
organizations have a total of 29 demin- cooperative.                           visit was to establish formal contacts   
               ing teams of 32 deminers each. The Mujahideen leaders asked the with the government of Afghanistan.      
        The UN-sponsored demining oper- Soviet foreign minister during his re- Tomsen has served for more than          
            ation began in 1989, after Soviet 001,1 visit 10 Kabul provide the three years as the US special envoy to   
                  troops left Afghanistan. Islamic government with maps of the the Afghan resistance.                   
                  The US government has donated mincficlds' Russia sh°uld f°uW During his two-day stay in Kabul,        
         12 new mine-sniffing dogs. These <tem,n,n8 operauons. They should pay he met with President Mujaddidi,         
dogs, purchased from Thailand, will compcnsaUon for ^ vlct,ms of Soviet        Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Masood       
join the 54 dogs previously involved in mincs*                                 and Foreign Minister Sulaiman            
mine detection. Panjshir is one of the most heavily-                           Gailani.                                 
. . , __. , mined areas of Afghanistan. But so far,                            He delivered a message from              
The dogs already are trained spe- ... . . .                                    President Bush to Prof. Mujaddidi. In    
                 • « c L j . no demining operauons have been                   his message, the US president assured    
           cially for the job. The dogs will under- . . . r . ., _             Mujaddidi of his country's support in    
. . J , J. . .. launched in that valley. The                                   reconstruction of Afghanistan.           
go eight more weeks of training with , . .                                     Tomsen expressed hope that peace         
. ... . .. .. , Mujahideen have cleared some areas                             would come soon to Kabul. He said        
their new Afghan handlers. After the ..f-. .. . . „ ..                         large-scale assistance to Afghanistan    
. . . . . , ... with primitive devices but there is a                          was possible when the security situa¬    
training period, the dogs will start , * . . .. . .                            tion had improved. While expressing      
, . • • • . ° . . TrkT need for a systematic operation to make,                American commitment to the recon¬        
mme-cleanng operauons under the UN . . r .                                     struction of Afghanistan in general      
° r the valley safe for the returning                                          terms, he talked in detail about         
program. _ 7                                                                   American assistance to refugees in       
r ■* refugees.                                                                 Pakistan, provision of funds to school   
Dogs were introduced in USAID- ^ past months> 20                               and hospilal and American support for    
sponsored mme-clcarance operations cows (jonkeys have died on a hill-          demining operations.                     
in October 1989. The then-UN coordi- jQp> sep^iing two villages, in Rukha.     Tomsen wanted to study the possi¬        
nator Sadruddin Agha Khan, who was ^jjnes have caused material losses to       bility of reopening the US Embassy in    
responsible for directing the operation, farmers ^ ^ a permanent threat        Kabul. Washington closed its embassy     
vetoed the use of dogs in UN mine- to ^habitants 0f the area, especially to    in Kabul days before the end of the      
clearing operations. He is a dog-lover gbij^n                                  Soviet troop withdrawal in 1989.         
and argued that the life of an innocent                                        Several Western countries followed       
First Eid under Islamic system                                                 suit.                                    
The people of Afghanistan cele- for eradication of ignorance and               The Americans also spoke to the          
brated the first Eid after establishment poverty.                              Afghan leaders about ways to reduce      
of the Islamic government on June 11. Prof. Rabbani said reconstrucion         narcotics production, and informed       
They prayed for the return of peace and was the government's priority but      them, of the US aid policy in connec¬    
consolidation of the Islamic warned that the transitional phase of             tion with the drug issue.                
government. the revolution would be the hardest. If                            Tomsen told reporters that the US        
The head of the Islamic problems arise, he said, one should not                would contribute to the $180 million     
Government, Prof. Mujaddidi, and the be disheartened,                          reconstruction fund requested by the     
head of Leadership Council, Prof. "We should support each other to             UN Secretary-General. He said the re¬    
Rabbani, addressed the nation on TV solve the problem," he said,               construction of Afghanistan needed in¬   
and radio. The Islamic revolution has many                                     ternational cooperation.'                
In his address. Prof. Rabbani said opponents at home and abroad, he not-       Tomsen said that in the view of de¬      
that the Islamic government was estab- ed. But he added that no propaganda or  mand for assistance in other parts of    
lished at great sacrifice and that it other hostile actions could harm the     the world such as the Balkans and        
would be protected at any cost revolution as long as it had a place in         Africa, Afghans should try hard to       
He said Jehad had succeeded but the hearts of the people,                      bring peace to their country as soon as  
that the revolution had just begun. The Jami'at leader said Afghans            possible so that the assistance needed   
There is a need for change in all as- should not allow ethnic and regional     in Afghanistan is not sent somewhere     
peels of the people’s life, he added. factors to divide the people, and de-    else.                                    
The Jami'at leader said the Islamic scribed armed conflict between Hezb-i-                                              
go.vemment should protect the rights Wahdat and Ittihad "a tragic develop-                                              
and dignity of the people; give freedom ment" which spoiled the happy atmos-                                            
to the people within the framework of phere created by the victory of the                                               
Islam; rule with justice, and struggle Mujahideen.                                                                      
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 12, June 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Gul Haider
     Gul Haider is a battalion commander of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council. Despite losing one of his legs in a mine explosion, he has remained active in Jehad.
     He led five hundred Mujahideen in the operation which resulted in the liberation of Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan, in April. The forces under his command are responsible for the security of an area west of the capital.
     Gul Haider is one of those commanders whose reputation has reached beyond the borders of Afghanistan. Many foreign journalists, have praised him for his courage iri articles and books abouL Jehad in the Panjshcr valley.
     In addition to fighting the enemy outside the valley, Gulhaidcr fought Soviet and the communist regime troops during the nine offensives, launched against Panjshcr.
     His first encounter with Soviet troops look place in the Parandch side-valley of Panjsher in March of 1980. Despite their lack of proper weapons, the Mujahideen killed several Soviet soldiers and seized some arms and ammunition. ■                  \ -  r r
     During the second offensive in the summer of the same year, Gul Haider and other Mujahideen destroyed 16 tanks and trucks in Rukha. Commander Abdul Wasay, Gul Haider's cousin, led the operations.
     During the third offensive at the end of the same year, he and other Mujahideen under command of Mohammad Panah killed or captured more than 50 regime soldiers.
     He also fought the enemy when they launched their fourth offensive in the Summer of 1981.
     During the fifth offensive in the Spring of 1982, Gul Haider and a few of his friends annihilated a commando unit of die Red Army which had landed by helicopters in Rukha. Three helicopters were shot down and many light and heavy weapons were captured. This operation raised the morale of the Mujahideen in other parts of Panjshir.
     Gul Haider lost one leg in a mine explosion in Panjshir in 1983. He went to Peshawar for medical treatment, iami’al helped to fix an artificial leg for him in London. During his stay in London, he passed the message of the Mujahideen to Afghans living there. After a few month, he returned to Afghanistan to resume Jehad.
     When the civilian population and
 most of the Mujahideen were evacuated from the valley in preparation for the seventh offensive in the Spring of 1984, Gul Haider was advised to go to Shomali. But after the initial phase of , the offensive, he returned.
     Snow blocked transportation routes, making it difficult to bring supplies to more than 200 Mujahideen in a side-valley about one mile from a Soviet garrison in Rukha.
     At this critical lime, the Mujahideen felt the need for having a' commander who could lead them tin an extremely difficult situation. They asked Gul Haider to become their commander. He accepted the offer reluctantly but has remained in this post since then. At the start of 1988, he went to London to repair his artificial leg and returned to the valley the day when Soviet troops pulled out of Panjshir.
     Peter Jouvcnal, a British journalist, helped Gul Haider to undergo treatment in London. He had become ah admirer of Gul Haider after he saw his fearless fighting against the Soviets at the start of. Jehad.
     From 1988 to 1992, Gul Haider remained in the valley and served as the commander of Chimalwarda district (Qarargah).
     When Commander Masood mobilized die Mujahideen of Panjshir and organized them into battalions to lake
 part in the liberation of Kabul, Gul “Haider was chosen the commander of one of the battalions. On the way to Charikar he was accompanied by two other Mujahideen with artificial limbs.
      Gul Haider is a famous local figure. He has earned his reputation for his selfless Jehad. Commander Jailani of Jabiilseraj once said that presence of Gul Haider in a group of Mujahideen gave life and energy to the group. Local children praised Gul Haider in their songs as a folk hero, something that he deserves.
      Although he is not educated, he takes keen interest in educlioh for the people. He organized the rebuilding of one of the two major mosques in Rukha where students learn Islamic knowledge.
      Gul Haider was bom 29 years ago in the village of Shast, Panjshir. His fa ther, Mir Haider, was a farmer.
      Gul Haider studied the basics of Islam in the mosque school of his vil lage. He did not attend school due to financial problems and began to work in a bakery in Kabul.
      He left his job and joined the Mujahideen when the people of Panjshir rose against the communist re gime under the: leadership .of Ahmad Shah Masood in 1979. He was given a gun after two months among the Mujahideen.
      When the Mujahideen retreated to .the upper part of the valley due to shortages of arms and ammunition, Gul Haider accompanied them. Masood began to train his men to prepare them for the difficult days ahead. Gul Haider relumed to his village and lived there se crcLly before rejoining the Mujahideen in the spring of 1980.
      Gul Haider got married in 1984 and has two children.
                 3     '   ,       ;Vv ' ft

llMredhia*:ffier^ was. nWimilli
                       §j$ept Abu
plants ;used‘Tbr

AFGHANews Vo! 8, No 12,

 1992, page
Save Afghanistan's honor!
     I was sitting in my new office in Kabul when two people entered the room: a western woman and an Afghan working for a UN organization.
     The lady told me that she was leaving Afghanistan and had come to pay a farewell visit.
     She said while she was keen to work for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, the situation had forced her to leave Kabul. "Back at home," she added, "I will think about my future plans."
     She did not say what was forcing her to leave the job that she liked so much. But I had already learned that a group of armed men had entered her house one night, tied her up, and demanded cash and jewelry at gun point.
     They tormented her for six long hours. Finally the thieves left, taking whal they could carry, and left her shaken physically and mentally.
     The ordeal had deeply demoralizing her for two reasons: first, her life had been threatened, and second, she did not expect such treatment from the people for whose well-being she had worked for more than a decade.
     She flew back to Islamabad on a UN plane. AfLcr a medical check up, she flew back lo her country.
     This lady has been involved in support of Jehad since 1980. Her husband, a scholar and expert on Afghanistan, has rendered great service to the -people of Afghanistan by informing the world of their struggle. She had been on medical and other humanitarian missions lo Herat, Mazar, Badakhshan and other parts of Lhc country before joining the UN to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     The fall of the communist regime and formation of the Islamic government delighted her because she thought that conditions for reconstruction and humanitarian work would improve under the new government. But a group of bandits whose only concern was to get money through criminal means shattered her dreams.
     Or was that their only concern? Those men may have intended lo defame the Mujahideen and their young Islamic government.
   ' I was deeply embarrassed and apologized because I was aware of her services to the Afghan people and the expectations she had of the Mujahideen. I was disappointed that the Islamic government had failed to provide security for her.
     That incident resembled many others in Kabul since the formation of the Islamic government. Many Afghans and foreigners have been robbed of their property; some have even been murdered, property; some have even been murdered.
     Violence and armed robbery must be a source of worry to the new leaders in Kabul. These incidents not only undermine the authority of the government but harm our national pride and damage the image of Jehad.
     The Mujahideen’s failure to put an end to such acts has several reasons:
     •     The presence of a great many armed groups, belonging to different parties, in every quarter of the city. Many houses, and indeed whole streets, have been turned into quasi-military posts.
     •     The absence of a regular army and police force to control the situation through a single command.
     • The presence of the former regime’s agents among the Mujahideen.
     • Ineffective control of some parties over their armed Mujahideen.
     Despite paying lip service to the need to form a combined army and police
 force to deal with the security issues in Kabul, the parties have not acted urgently to deal with the security issue. Political motives may lie behind such delays. But the deterioration of law and order will help only criminals — and the govern-
                                        G#- To page (5)
 Rabbani visits Herat, Mazar
    Prof. Rabbani, president of the Leadership Council and the leader of Jami'at Islami, returned to Kabul on May 26 after a five-day visit to Herat, Mazar, Jawzjan, Faryab and Baghlan.
    Prof. Rabbani discussed Lhc political, military and economic situation of Herat with Ismail Khan, the governor and commander of that province. In Mazar, he addressed public meetings and exchanged views with some Mujahideen commanders. He also met with General Dostum and General Sayycd Mansoor Nadcri.
    Maulavi Alam, the chief administrator of Jami'at in Mazar, Abdul Hay Haqjo, the general commander of Jami’at in Baghlan, and some prominent members of Jami'at accompanied him on the journey.
    This was Rabbani's first trip outside Kabul since the victory of the Islamic revolution. On his return, he was welcomed at the Kabul airport by Ahmad Shah Masood, the defence minister, and Prof. Tawana, the deputy minister of higher education.
 Islamic Movement
                                              From page (7)
 brother, Mohammad Zahir, were arrested. Among those only Prof. Sayyaf was released; the rest were killed. The remaining leaders such as Prof. Rabbani, Hikmatyar, Yasir, Bilal and Sayycd Lala migrated to Pakistan.
     Some friends say that Prof. Niazi and Eng. Habibur Rahman were arrested and then killed by the Daud regime due /to an abortive coup engineered by Hikmatyar, without consultation of other leaders. Prof, consultation of other leaders. Prof. Rabbani managed- to avoid arrest by leaving the country. Mawlawi Habibur Rahman was arrested and killed during the uprising in Laghman in the summer of 1975. The dean of the university, Nimatullah Pazhwak, wanted to expel me from my job, but his transfer to another post postponed the decision .
     Twenty-three days after the communist coup, I reached Pakistan and joined my friends in Jami'at Islami. Unfortunately there was a split in the party and Hezb had been formed under the leadership of Hikmatyar. There have been divisions among the brothers since 1977.
AFGHANews Vol 8r No 12, June 15, 1992, page @
Foreign Ministry rejects allegations of Amnesty
    The Islamic government has refuted allegations of torture and summary execution of political opponents.
    The London-based Amnesty International had appealed to the new government to safeguard human rights, and quoted reports of killings of officials of the former Soviet-backedj'overament, torture, and attacks fo minority Sikhs and Hindus.
    Responding to the appeal, deputy foreign minister Hamcd Karzai said some of Amnesty's allegations were unsubstantiated, while other abuses had been committed during the open warfare between rival factions lhal fol-
 lowed the overthrow of Najibullah.
     Mr. Karzai said the government had made no arrests on political grounds since taking power.
     He said the government knew nothing of incidents reported by Amnesty International in which hand grenades were allegedly thrown into the homes of Sikhs and Hindus, adding that it condemned such actions.
     The AmncsLy report cited the beating and shooting to death of an official of the former government in his office by Mujahideen and quoted a report that 40 members of the old security forces were killed after being taken prisoner.
Save Afghanistan's honor
From page (4)
 mcnl's political enemies.
     The formation of a combined force lo lake charge of the security of Lhc city must be a priority for all the Mujahideen parlies. Once such a force is formed, lhc bulk of the Mujahideen should be made to leave Kabul and stationed in bases outside the city.
     Subversive clcmcms and criminals must be expelled from among the Mujahideen groups.
     A ban must be imposed on firing in the air because it kills and injures innocent people and wastes ammunition. Firing in the air is a major concern of the people of Kabul.
     Kabul’s leaders ought to pay attention to security problems instead of trying to prolong- their office terms by forming new alliances. Their failure lo address these dangers is destroying the image of the Islamic government. Moreover, it makes the outside world reluctant to render economic assis-
Masood releases Russian POW
 lance. The UN and other donors who might finance Afghanistan’s reconstruction will do so only when they arc sure that the lives and property of their workers arc safe.
     Afghans have a worldwide reputation for hospitality and tolerance towards non-Muslim minorities. They have earned an international reputation for their marvelous Jehad against the tyranny of communism. This honor must be protected at all costs.
     The Mujahideen should not allow criminals and saboteurs to damage their reputation and harm their national interests. They should strike at such elements with an iron hand.
     This will be possible only if the party leaders develop a sense of urgency and act together to improve matters. Delay could damage the Islamic revolution beyond repair.
     Mohammad Es'haq
    A Russian prisoner of war in Afghanistan was freed by the Defense Minister, Ahmad Shah Masood, after five years of captivity on May 4 in Kabul.
    Sergei Fateev, 24, was handed over to Russian diplomats in Kabul. Later, he was flown home to Siberia in the former Soviet Union.
    Falccv's handover marked the ful-' filmcnt of a promise made by Masood to visiting Russian Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev.
    Fateev said at the handover cere-
 mony that he had been captured by the Mujahideen in 1987 after a mine exploded under his tank, killing three comrades and wounding him.
     "I am a Muslim now. The Mujahideen treated me like a brother, I was very happy with them," Fateev said, but added: "I am very happy to be going home."
     Speaking fluent Farsi, learned from his captors, he said he had been held in a mountain post in northern Afghanistan with two other Russian ^prisoners who had also converted to Islam.
   '; The Lead'er^jp.; Council pf tSxie • Islamic-; goyerh^       April-' 20.:
  formally |dissolvcd fthe; Afghan Interim government. (AIG) which ^s.:fbrm*d :iw$^
     This was stated !by Prof.
  Burhanuddin Rabbaiii, leaderi pf Janii’at: :Island - while:- .talking'
  ATI.; Th is
  meeting of Mujahideen leaders and reprCS(?n tad i groups. •
     More than 35 countries have recognized the Islamic government of Af^hanisianAT          Pakistan,
  Iran, .Turkcy^-^abch; Ar^iaAlitisisia^ China, the EEC: countries arid trie US,
      .                -V"
  and a         of.-.tiie Academy pf
  Sciences ofy^fgh^^ ha$: idled at age of 66 In Kabul...      -
     jBeEad
  the Faculty of Science of Kabul University, the;, head ofihe Atomic Commission , advisor to the ministry of . education ;anfeiriembcr dflithe National/ Assembly ^vHi| dcath-fwas described by die Acadcmy l of Sciences as "a great loss.” .
           V
     Prof; :Rabbam;;^ visited Polygon, outside Kabul, to pray lor the souls of the many Afghans killed and buried iririnas^ graves-by Lhc communist regime:
     He was accompanied by Mahmood Khan, the chief administrator of Panjshir; Fahim, the deputy head of lhc political committee of the
  commanders; .
     i A group 6f 28'disabled chitdferi firne
  be treated. The treatment of war-wounded Afghan children is organized by the Peace Village, a German private organization. A delegation of the Peace Village visited Kabul sometime a&6 and met tri|;;l§ad of the Afghan Red Crescent Society, discussed ^matiorv
           hospital id Kabul and Sending more disabled children for medical treatment in Germany. The Peace Village has been dealing with tfct;
 *»     ^uiuvi^uting in UJW
 lion prayers is the negative side of this event.
     The new Mujahideen leaders ' wear ordinary dress. This has eliminated a barrier which separated the ordinary Afghans from ranking government officials. It is indeed a positive development.          -
     When the Mujahideen took power in Kabul there was acute shortage of water, electricity, food and fuel. The prices of essential commodities were very high. But within a few days of the establishment of the Islamic government, the situation began to improve. Supply of water and electricity were restored. Prices of food and fuel were reduced. As the roads opened, food became abundant in the market. The people became optimistic about their future.
     Islamization of Radio and TV programs was a priority of the new government. The Ministry of Information and Culture was given to Jami’ai. Time given for entertainment and music was reduced and more time was given for religious programs. Songs by women were stopped. The women officials of the government were asked to wear Islamic dress. For those who had watched the TV programs of the communist regime the changes introduced are quite drastic but there are some Mujahideen parties who think that the changes are not enough.
     Three state-owned dailies have begun to be published. Jami'at Islami began to publish two papers from Kabul, "Mujahid" and "AFGHANcws". This is the first step towards having a free press in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
     Foreign assistance is necessary to keep the government machine riinning. Pakistan was the first country to provide a generous assistance of 50,000 tonnes of wheat and $10 million for
 problems. Commander Masood wanted the transfer of power to take place peacefully; armed Mujahideen from outside should not have been allowed to enter Kabul.
     But the attack by Hczb resulted in breaking of the security belt around Kabul and several thousand armed Mujahideen belonging to different parties entered the capital.
     War conditions forced parties to arm their supporters inside Kabul. In the meantime, some members of the previous regime and criminals who had been set free from prison were armed. Each leader brought a large number of armed Mujahideen with him. Government offices and even private houses were occupied by armed groups. Under these circumstances, provision of security, in the capital became a daunting task.
 ana police torce to look alter law and order issues.
     The Islamic government has been recognized , by more than thirty countries. Official delegations from Pakistan, Iran, the United States, Russia, Egypt and Sudan visited Kabul. The UN has appealed for SI80 million in reconstruction funds.
     Afghan refugees continue to return in large numbers. UN sources estimate the number of returning refugees at 7,000 people per day. Their actual number is much higher. The government of Pakistan has allowed Lhe refugees to take with them all their belongings. It has also lifted restrictions on bringing food, fuel and construction material into Afghanistan.
     But the new government stil faces tremendous economic problems. Supplies of food and fuel are. short.
      Plans to form a regular army and police force did not translate into action due to political mancuvrcs by different parties.
      The most tragic evcnl of this period was the armed clash between Hczb-i-Wahdal and lttihad-i-Islami. Several hundred people were cither killed or wounded in these clashes which continued for five days. A large number of houses were destroyed.
      The forces under Lhe command of the Defense Ministry played a key role in bringing the fighting to an end. The
     To persuade foreign countries to give assistance to Afghans, the embassies of Afghanistan should be activated. These embassies are still run by the diplomats of the former regime. Appointing good people to these posts can help the Islamic government to draw the world's attention towards the plight of the Afghan people.
     Appointing a capable diplomat as the Islamic Government's ambassador to the United Nations will help the Islamic government to deal with the world body more effectively.
 leaders of the two parties blamed undisciplined
 Mujahideen for the start of the -clash.
     A statement of the foreign ministry warned foreign