
AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM 1‘AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Yot. II. No. 20, 15/10/1986.
                             UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND THE AFGHAN ISSUE
 The UN. General Assembly has decided to discuss the Afghan issue on November 4th.
 In the past the Gemeral Assembly has passed with an absolute majority, resolutions asking for the withdrawal of forlegn (Soviet) troops from Afghanistan, the restoration of an Islamic and nonalligned status of Afghanistan; the right of the people of Afghanistan to decide their future and the honourable return of about 5 mil lion refugees to their country.
 The Soviets have rejected the resolutions and the war has continued. On the other side the efforts of the UN. General Secretary for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan In the form of proximity talks between the Government of Pakistan and the Soviet puppets has continued since 1982. So far nothing has come out of these talks and there Is no hop* for its future either.
 While these efforts by the international community is appreciated and take root from their desire for peace in Afghanistan, there are some hard facts which must be taken into consideration.
 1. The resolutions are not strong enough A super power has invaded a small neighbouring country without provocation and as a result of that at least half a million people have died. 5 million have become refugees outside their country, 2 million more have turned internal refugees and 75$ of all the villages and towns have been destroyed. Vet still In the resolutions there is no word of condemnation and the name of the inavader. in similar circumstances if the aggressor was somebody eise i am sure the outcry would have been much louder and the resolutions much stronger and thfc aggressor would not have escape un-named.
 2. The proximity talks which are going on under the auspices of the UN General Secretary do not contain all the items of the resolutions passed by the General Assembly. The main weak point of the talks is the absence of" the right for self-determination of the people of Afghanistan " from the agenda. The Soviets and the Afghan resistance, who are the two sides of the conflict are not present in these talks.
O F
  AfGflA&KEWS_________YQL.il_______NCL2Q_____1W10/1986 PAGE .2
 3. With all the resolution and the continuation of the proxlmty talks, the war has continued, more people have become refugees and Afghahs have seen more death and destruction. The reason for this is lack of enough pressure from the international community on the Soviet invaders, and unreasonable expectations from the proximity talks.
 The world communty is now facing a new leadership in the Soviet Union. The new leaders are more sophisticated. They talk with smiling faces and give false hopes for peace. They talk about the withdrawal of 7,000 troops (out of 150,000) and a new approach to the issue,
 Those who are aware of the situation inside Afghanistan and see: the big military instalations built by them; knows about long term Sovietisation policies and witness the miserable living condition of millions of Afghans inside and outside the country; can understand the depth of Soyiet leaders'
 hypocracy.
 4 The UN membership of the puppet regime is a tragic phenomenon. A country is occupied by the Red Army and its UN seat is occupied by the representative of the Soviets. This is similar to the paradox of the membership of .two of the Soviet statess as the full members of the United
 Nations.
 The membership of the puppets in the UN has causecLmany political and humanitarian problems for the people of Afghanistan. Because of this membership a puppet regime Is gettng UN aid, while millions of Afghans are deprived of the humanitarian assistance inside their country. The membership of the regime can not be justified by any standards.
 5. Finally the voice of the people of Afghanistan is not heard directly. A resistance which has control over 80« of the land and is supported by the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan, does not have the chance to speak about the problems that the AfcV.rn Motion is facing.
 The world community by now should have reached the conclusion that unnamed condemnations and polite requests to an invader to stop its attrocities is not enough, if they are really concerned about the faith of a nation, an old member of UN, they should take proper steps to put greater pressure on the Soviets.
                                AFGHAN MICE RESIST THE INVADERS
 in 1983 the Soviets planted numerous antipersonnel mines (Pressure type) around their positions and on strategic mountain peaks in the Panjshtr valley, in the spring of 198A Mujahideen started to clear these minefields, They were surprised when they saw that a large number of pressure mines had already been defused by the mice. The mice had eaten the plastic cover which makes the mines water proof. Once that cover is destroyed water can destroy the mine.
  AEGflAN NEWS_YQL...U__MQ.-20. 15/lttU3M___RAGE_i
 in a country where its mice are resisting the invaders, Soviets can not dream of victory.
                                     NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS PANJSHIR
 in response to the request, by Prof. Rabbam for cooraianted actions to relieve Herat from enemy pressure the level of fighting has increased in the Panjshir valley Here are the details of operations which nave taken place recently:
 11/9/1986: Mujahideen attacked the Soviet garrison in Rahman Khali (Bazarak), one parked Helicopter and one tank were hit and set on fire.
 12/9/1986: Mujahideen of Anaba and Tawakn attacked the residential quarters of the puppets in Anaba. i7 rooms and two stores (full of clothes) were set on fire. An unknown number of puppets were killed or wounded.
 13/9/1986: A time bomb was planted in a resupply convoy of the enemy. As a result a chain explosion took place a few kilometers inside the Panjshir valley, 70 trucks, APCs and tanks were destroyed, and a large number of enemy soldiers and officers were killed. Mujahideen captured some
 ammunition from the this convoy.
 14/9/i986 The Soviets attacked Feraj valley ( a side valley 7 kms inside Panjshir) After loosing thirty men in two days of fighting they were forced to retreat. Mujahideen casualties are not given in the report.
 16/9/1986: The Soviets attacked Tawakh side valley (12 kms inside Panjshir valley). They were ambushed by the Mujahideen and lost 25 men. They retreated having achieved nothing
 17/9/1986: The Soviets attacked Chemal Warda ( a side valley 25 kms inside Panjshir). 40 enemy soldiers were killed in two ambushes. On the 22nd of September they retreated. No figure for casualties of the Mujahideen is given.
 23/9/1986: 13 Muslim soldiers and one officer killed one communist officer and joined tne Mujahideen of Pushghoor (50 kms inside) They brought with them 10 AK-47s and one Makarov'pistol.
  AFGHAN NE¥S VOL. II_______________15/10/1936   PAGE 4
 24/9/1986: Mujahideen ambushed the puppet forces In Zene (40 Juris inside) and killed 15 soldiers and wounded 6 others.
 24/9/1986: Mujahideen of Tulkha ( a side valley of Bazarak) ambushed the enemy soldiers. 5 soldiers were killed and three others were injured,
 There are no figures of civilian casualties in the mentioned areas because very few civilians are living there,
                                        REPORT FROM PA6HMAN
 17/9/1986 Afghan Mews reciceved a letter from Mullah Ezat the Jaml’at commander in Paghman. In his letter he talks about the late offensive of the enemy in Paghman.
 Paghaman was attacked from three directions, the North, Ganddahar road (South) and old Paghman road (East)/ The attack started with heavy bombardments by long range rockets and the enemy airforce.later thousands ot enemy troops (Soviets and Puppets) entered the region and started to search the villages. Because of the strong enenmy attack, Mujahideen decided to retfeat The enemy searched and looted the houses. The houses which were empty were set on fire. They also destroyed some houses using dynamites. They planted ant-personnel mines in some ^houses and polluted the wells with poisenous chemicals. Animals like cows died 3 minutes after drinking the polluted water. They also destroyed several underground water channels (Kartz) using explosives. Because of this farmers are facing shortage of water for irregation
 On September 18, a tank belonging to the puppets was blown up by a land mine planted by the Mujahideen.
 On September 19, Soviets discovered the hide-out of six Mujahideen and tried to capture them. The Mujahideen resisted them and killed 3 soldiers and wounded some others. The enemy used explosives and all the six were martyred ( Peace be upon them)
 The report adds that the Mujahideen and people of the area are facing financial problems.
 “Despite all the difficulties Mujahideen will not let Paghman becomes a picnic place for the Soviet invaders", tne report says.
                                          REPORT FROM HERAT
 28/9/2986. Mujahideen engaged the enemy on two fronts. They attacked the enemy from the West of the city and also from the East of the town The one on the Eastern part of the city surprised the enemy.
  As a result of the attack several villages in the eastern part of the city of Herat, close to the enemy 17th division were liberated from the puppets
  AfGBAN-NBffS___Y-OL, II__NO. 20__15/10/1^8.6___PAGO
 control. Mujahideen attacked the Division itself with ground-to-ground rockets and inf licted many losses on the enemy.
 According to the same report a large portion of the Western part of the city is now under the control of Mujahideen. Most of the posts recently built by the enemy were wiped out Fighting is continuing in different parts of Herat Provice.
A Soviet soldier who was captured recentlty in Paghman by the Mujahideen from Jami'at*
                                       REPORT FROM KABUL
 1/10/J986. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked an enemy post in Qala-i-Fato a vUfage of Chardehl district. ( South-West of Kabul city). Five puppet soldiers were injured.
                                 REPORT FROM PAKTICA PROVINCE
 1/10/1986. Mujahideen from Jamiat ambushed an enemy re-supply convoy in Waza- Kha district. One tank was destroyed by a land mine. In the clash which took place 11 puppet soldiers were killed. One Mujahid was injured by
 a fragment from an enemy's mortar shell.
 5/10/1986. One enemy tank and one truck were destroyed when they hit the Sand mines planted by Mujahideen in Wasza Kha district. Ail the occupants of the two wehicies 'were killed.
                                REPORT FROM JAWZJAN PROVINCE
 14/9/1986. According to a report, sent by Commnder Amruiiahm the enemy attacked Sancharak district. The purpose of the attack was to expand the control zone of the enemy in the city. Two tanks and one truck were destroyed and about 90 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. Two puppet officers were captured with their weapons. Fifteen Mujahideen were
   AFGHAN NEWS_______VOL II______HSL2SL____15/1Q/19S6______iASKIt
 martyred and twenty two others wounded. Thirteen civilians,were killed and 31 others wounded. The enemy bombed the area heavily as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed.
                         THE SO-CALLED WITHDRAWAL A NEW DECIPTIVE MOVE
 The so-called withdrawal of some Red Army units from Afghanistan is no more than a deciptive move by the Soviet leaders. The realities of the situation in Afghanistan show that the Soviets do not have good intentions in the so-called withdrawal of some units from Afghanistan. They recently brought in new troops to meet their demand for more manpower.
 The publicized withdrawal does not change the military situation and does not have any value. The world should not be decieved by this propaganda campaign launched by the Soviet leaders. The choice of the time and ' propaganda they have made is revealing of their true intention to.decieve world opinion
 The world in the past has asked for a prompt and total withdrawal of troops and respect for the right for self-determination.The Soviet leaders are responding to the just demand of the world by a publicized withdrawal of a few units from the 150,000 troops they have in Afghanistan. They units they are withdrawing are of no use in the war.
 The key to peace is in the hand of the Soviets. Peace can only be achieved if ail the Soviet troops are withdrawn and that country stops all kinds of dirct and indirct interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, if the Soviets continue their long term policy of the Sovletization of Afghan society and impostlon of a puppet regime on the people of Afghanistan war will continue. This is what tne Soviets are doing . The real aim of the Soviet leaders is to win the war in Afghanistan with veryMittle political cost and they are using the so-called withdrawal of some units for this political end.
                                          AN AMAZING FATHER
 it was the fall of 1982. Panjshir valley was being bombed continously.We were at Friday prayers in the big mosque of the town when enemy jets passed over tne area. They started to bomp a town to Km. away. The bad news arrived in the evening. A commander of a mobile unit had been killed along with some others The whole town was made sad by the news.
 20 days later, again the same area was bombed. This time the target was a house in a village. Jets were diving and releasing 4 bombs of 250Kg. each time. Bombing continued for half an hour. This time an important figure of the resistance. Major Mohammad Ghous was martyred. He had been an airforce officer and was put in jail by the Daoud regime in i974. The charges against him were in connection with the Islamic movement. He was released later. In 1979 he-returned back from exile to organize the armed struggle against the communist, regime. Later he was given a job as the head
  AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II NO. 20________________11/10/1986_______PAGE 7
 of the military committee of Jamiat islami. He returnd back to the front in 1981,
 it was a coin evening and group of people were preparing the'grave . After saying the prayers for the martyred., the body was taken to the grave. While some men were putting the body into the grave an old man of aoout 75 addressed the martyred Major and said, "My son sleep beside your brother. Oh) my Allah i am quite happy for what you have chosen for the two of my sons."
 The old man was the father of two sons who had been martyred one after the other Every body weped except the old man who continued to repeat similar « words.
 Minutes later another voice mterupted the silence. This time it was* commander Masood who was giving order to his mujahideen to take ammunition to Shemali because the Soviets had launched an attack and he had recieved a request from the local Mujahideen for ammunition.
 The crowd dispersed and left the two brothers In peace.
 One may ask, Why the old man was so calm and what do his words mean'?
 Ttie old man was a muslim. He believed: that man is cheated by Allan and all his belongings including his Mfe is a gift from Allah, that this world is a testing ground and every one will be accountable to his God for his actions, those who do good will receive their reward in the next world.
 The most precious thing for man is his life. Giving that to Allan is the highest form of worship, it is a key to the door of eternal happiness.
 This way of belief has great impact on the behaviour of men towards martyrdom and those martyres. Hartyres are not considered dead The famiiies of the martyres are proud of having them. This way of thinking gives moral support to the resistance and martyredom of a person does not demoralize nis companions.
 Here are some verses from the Holy Quran about those who nave oeen martyred in the way of Allan.
 AND 5A Y NOT OF THOSE WHO ARE SLA).N iN THE WA Y OF GOD. "THEY ARE DEAD." NA K THEY ARE LIVING. THOUGH YE PERCE! YE (IT) NOT
                                           (S. I I 154)
                   THINK NOT OF THOSE WHO ARE SLAIN IN GODS WAY AS DEAD NAY, THEY LIVE FINDING THEIR SUSTENANCE IN THE PRESENCE OF THEIR LORD, THEY REJOICE !N THE BOUNTY PROVIDED BY GOD, AND WITH REGARD TO THOSE LEFT BEHIND. WHO HA YE NOT YET JOINED THEN (IN THEIR BLISS), THE (MARTYRES) GL ORY IN THE FACT THA T ON THEM IS NO FEAR NOR HA YE THEY ( CAUSE TO ) GRIEVE
                                           ($,///. 169)
  AFGHAN NEWS___YQJLJI____N$L2fl__n/10/1986 page*
                      INTERVIEW WITH COMMANDER ARIAN POOR , '
 [FOLLOWING IS AN EXTRACT FROM A RECENT INTERVIEW MADE WITH ARIAN POOR THE COMMANDER OF THE MUJAHIDEEN OF KESHM DISTRICT OF BADAKHSHAN PROVINCE HE IS 36 YEARS OLD AND A GRADUATE OF TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE OF KABUL. HE IS MARRIED AND HAS TWO SONS. HE LOST HIS MOTHER AND ONE SON IN A SOVIET BOMBARDMENT. HE COMES FROM A POOR FAMILY . HE IS FAMOUS FOR HIS PIETY AND DESIRE TO SERVE HIS PEOPLE, HE IS A STAUNCH SUPPORTER OF UNITY AMONG MUJAHIDEEN AND CONSIDER THIS AS THE KEY TO SUCCESS. HE FULLY SUPPORTS MASOOD’S EFFORTS FOR COORDINATION OF ACTION A6AINST THE ENEMY. HE HAS PAID FULL ATTENTION TO THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN IN THE AREA UNDER HIS CONTROL AND HAS ESTABLISHED MANY SCHOOLS. HE HAS BUILT A GOOD CIVILIAN ORGANIZATION BESIDE HIS MILITARY ORGAN!AZTION]
 The text, begins:
 0. How do you describe the situation in your area?
 A. As everywhere in Afghanistan, in Badakhshan we also have problems. But today the problems are less than the past, Morale of the Mujahideen is high and they cooperate with each other. As a whole the situation has improved. We hope that it will be better in the future. Our organizational work, our cultural activities and military work are far better compared to previous years. Common people and reiigous scholars are cooperating with us in Jehad affairs.
 Q. What about your relations with other fronts like Yaftal and Wardooj?
 A. Since we are following the same aim and since our relations are based on Islamic princtpels, we have very close relations and cooperation.
 Q. Would you tell us about some other Jam fat commanders in Badakhshan?
 A. Most effective Jami'at commanders are commander Abdul Basir, commander Najmuddin, commander Jan Ali, commander Haii Zabet, commander Maqsood, commander Amir Khan, commander Sayed Mahyuddin, commandr fazel Ahmad.
 Q. Have you taken some steps for organizing Mujahideen?
 A, Realizing the fact that disunity and poor organizing are the most dangerous elements in our Jehad, we have taken effective steps to organize Mujahideen and people in the five northern provinces. It is progressing day by day.
 Q. Any example of joint a operation?
 A. The victory of the Mujahideen over the Farkhar puppets base is a good example, in this operation groups from Badakhshan, Takhar, Baghlan, Kundoz, Parwan and Kapisa provinces participated.
 Q. Did you send group or did you participate in the planing of Farkhar?
  AFGHAH NEWS VOL. II NO. 20                1S/10/1Q&6     PAGE Q
 A. By participation I meant sending groups.
 0. Again the victory over Ferkhar! was it as a result of an increase in the armaments of the Mujahideen or the joint operation?
 A. The joint operation was the only reason for the victory. There was no change in the quality and quantity of the Mujahdideen’s weapons.
 Q. have you ever given a chance to the common people to participate in the process of decision making?                                          c
 A. Ours is an Islamic revolution, national revolution and people’s revolution.
    I t is the people who participate in different fields. In the past people did not have any role to play in the process of decision making.They did not have any role in government affairs. They were silenced: Now the people have an effective-role to play.
 Q. What about the withdrawal of a limited number of Soviet forces from Afghanistan?
 A. It is obvious that there are about 15Q thousand troops . in Afghanistan.Witherawal of 6 to 7 thousand troops will have no effect on the war. Even if it takes place it does not have any military value.
 Q. What about the cultivation of opium?
 A. !t is the puppet government who has a direct hand in the cultivation and smuggling of opium. It is smuggled by the puppets’ network to the the foriegn countries. Soviet, puppets finance their militias through smuggling opium.
 Q. Do you allow' opium to be cultivated in the areas under your control?
 A. Not at all. We have forbidden cultivation of not only opium but also tobacco.
 Q. Is there any judicial system to try you if you do something wrong?
 A. We serve the people, not rule them.We have always given this right and power to the people to question us. We are accountable to them.
 Q. Do you have judges in the area you control?
 A. We have judges and they are elected by the religious scholars. They have the power to try even the commanders. One of my effective commanders had slapped someone. The case was taken to court and the commander was found guilty and fined.
 AFGHAN NEWS___YQL.1I___HflLZfl-i5/iP/lM6--PAGE IQ
COnriflNDER nftSOOD OH THE WITHDRAWAL OF 7,000 SOUIET TROOPS:
"Militarily speaking, the withdrawal of 7000 troops has no value, because the Russians have sufficient forces in Afghanistan. Moreover the Russians have brought and are bringing thousands of their commando troops from Soviet Russia into Afghanistan by helicopters and Antonov planes whenever they need. I think it is just a « political manoeuver to propagate and confuse the
public Opinion.         afghan news voui, no. m
 Q, What about the food situation?
 A Due to late- winter and the shortage of rain, we had a bad year. We are facing shortage of food this year.
 Q. Do your Mujahideen have boots?
 A. They can not be with bare feet but 98% of them do not have boots. They
    use plastic shoes.
 0. How about clothes?
 A. Our Mujahideen are poor. They are poorly dressed. There is very little
    difference between what they wear in the Winter and Summer
 Q. Have you ever sent this message to the leader of Jami'at Islami, Prof. B. Raboani ?
 A. Yes, but they may have also problems and can not help us.
 Q. Do you have any message to the people of the world?
 A. My message to the Islamic nations, non-aligned movement and all those who bellve in freedom is this verse from a Persian poem which says:
 THE CUNNING WOLF EVERY DAY TAKES A SHEEP WHILE OTHER SHEEP ARE JUST WATCHING HIM.
 Soviets are killing Afghans and the rest of the world is just watching. They should feel their responsibilities towards a nation which is defending itself against an aggressor,
 Q. Will Afghanistan be free?
 A. Certainly, inshallah(God willing),
AFGHAN
ACKU
NAM'S
                 A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 Vol. II, No. 21. 1/11/1986.
                                  UNESCO AWARD FOR THE PUPPETS
 The Kabul New Times announced on Sep. If that the Afghan charge (Puppet representative) In Paris recleved an award from UNESCO Oeneral ’ Director for progress mode In a literacy program.
 This decision of UNESCO It totally unjust and based on complete Ignorance.
 Education has foced serious problems before and after the Invasion. The problem started just after the so-called Sour Revolution (the April Communist coup). Immediately after the coup, the communists turned schools into propaganda centers. They appointed teachers to moke census and carry out the regimes political work programs. Students uiere divided Into two groups; the party members or the revolutionaries and other who were suspected and watched. As the tension Increased between the people and the communist regime they distributed arms to the teachers and students who were party members. Several communist students attended the classes with the PPSH machhieguns. The peaceful atmosphere of education Intltutlons gave way to tension. Students were given the job for spying on the villagers , searching the buses and houses , patroling the passes and roods and protecting government property.
 Educational activities were limited to polittcol marches and communist sbngs. Normal educational activities were branded reactionary and out of dote.
 When the resistance started fighting against the regime, schools turned lilto fortresses from which the regime defended Itself against the popular uprising. After the Soviet Invasion the situation become worse. The country side was liberated but was not quite safe for normal educational activities. For seven years educational activities have been ate standstill.
 In the cities under the control of the regime, although some schools were kept open, the number of the student decreased. Many joined the resistance; became refugees, or under severe economic difficulties
O F
   AFGHAN Mgs________YQLJJ_______NO. 21     1/11/19*6PAGE 2
 left school end began to work. This was true for primary as well as university education.
 To speed up the Sovletlzatlon policy of the Invaders In Afghanistan, thousands of children are being sent to the Soviet Union. There too education is not the main purpose. The main alms of all these programs ore Indoctrination and brain-washing.
 The so-called literacy progarm In Kabul does not have a reality. The big figures which are published In the Soviet and Puppet papers are fabricated for propaganda purposes. If there Is any class that Is for political Indoctrination not education
 The Soviet and Puppet enemlty towards educated people and scholars is hidden from no one. This Is why 90% of of all the Afghan scholars who were not communists were killed, jailed or forced into enile.
 This Is why UNESCO's help for the regime is o form of support for the Sovletlzotion policy of the invaders. UNESCO actlvles In Kabul and Its morel and material support for the puppet regime Is considered a hostile action towards the people of Afghanistan who are struggling for
 their freedom.
 Then, why has UNESCO given on award for a regime who has done all this damage to education and which Is a puppet regime controlled by the Soviets?
 The reason could be:
 UNESCO is financing some educational projects in Kabul and the puppet regime Is a member of that organisation. By giving such an award, UNESCO is justifying its illegal stay and activities in Afghanistan.
 2. The infuluence of the Soviet Union In this body is obvious. Through giving an award to the puppet regime they ore gluing a form of legitimacy to the puppets and advertising Its stability. Obviously In this decision the Soviets have ployed an important role.
 Instead of helping the Sovletlzatlon programme of the Soviets In flfghoniston, UNESCO should hove supported schools run by the resistance in the 80% liberated territory of Afghanistan.
 UNESCO has played a foul game for a long time in Afghanistan. By employing a big number of Soviets ond their Indian stooges, providing the ground for more enemy spies to infiltrate Afghanistan.
 The award given to the puppets Is an insult to the cause of freedom and o blind political decision bosed on ignorance and Influenced by the Soviet imperialists.
  AEGBAmim______gQJL.il__MKL21 _1/11ZJL3M___EAfflLi
 Ule strongly reject UNESCO activities in Kabul and consider it a help In the direction of the Souietisatlon of Afghanistan's Education System.
                      MOHAMMADI THE NEW SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
 Moiulawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammad!, the leader of Horoket-i-Enqelab-i-lslomi Afghanistan took office on October 20th as the current spokesman of the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan. He ivlll be in the position as current spokesman of the Alliance for a period of three months.
 Mohammodi mill lead a seven member delgation of the Mujohideen to « New York on the occasion of the 41 st General Assembly session. The 6eneral Assembly ivlll debate the Afghan Issue on Nov. 4th.
 Uie wish every success to the neiv leader of the Alliance In serving the cause of Jehad and further strenthening the unity amongst the Mujahideen both in the military and political fields.
                  NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                BADAKHSHAN PROVINCE
R report from Yaftal of Badakhshan soys thot on 16th September, Russians and their puppets lauched a severe ottack on the areas of Rivgarah and Oqab Sheen ( close to Faizobod city, the provincial copftal of BadokhshonLThe letter says that many Helicopters and Jets heavily bombed the mentioned areas. The enemy also used long range artillery. During the 7 days of fighting 7 Mujahideen mere martyred and 9 others injured. As the result of bombardments several villages mere totally destroyed.Many civilians mere killed and mounded! the report does not give the number). Harvests mere set on fire and cattle killed.
The report says that Mujahideen killed or mounded an estmated number of 200 enemy troops. Mujohideen used 107 mm rockets against the enemy.
   AFGHAH .NEWS___YfiLJJ____NO. 21___1/11/1986___PAGE 4
 The report adds that in a seperate attack the Faizabad television center was damaged. 2 officers and 20 soldiers of the puppet army mere captured by the Mujahideen and a large amount of ammunition slezed.
 The report is signed by Basir Khan a famous commander in Badakhshan. He has been busy fighting the enemy since the April communist coup and is considered one of the most capable military commonders of Jamiat in the area.
                                     BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 13/8/1986. Soviets and their puppet troops attacked Hosontoi area (close to the city of Baghlan). Fighting continued for 10 hours. Mujohideen resisted the invading force. Turn enemy tanks mere destroyed and a large number of enemy troops mere killed or wounded. Three Mujahideen and 5 civilians were martyred and 19 others wounded.
 23/0/19B6. The enemy airforce hsovNy bombed the area of Hasontal. 4 civilians were martyred and 11 others wounded. People in the areo suffered heavy material losses.
 30/8/B6. Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in the area of Hasontal. About 30 puppet troops were killed or wounded. 12 puppet troops joined the Mujahideen. Mujahideen siezed 20 guns. Two Mujahideen were martyred and five others wounded in the clash between the communist forces and the Islamic Mujahideen.
 The report which has reached us is signed by Arbnb Juma the commander of Hasontal. Rrbab Juma, though not educated himself has taken great Interest in educating the people of the area. In the Mosque schools In his area a targe number of boys ond girls learn how to read and write.
 Rrbab Juma adds in the report that because of little rain fall and very little water for irrigation, farm products were low this yeor, ond because of the offensive and destruction of the houses ond the burning of the harvest the people In the areo ore facing a food shortoge.
                                      LOGAR PROVINCE
 In response to Prof. B Rabbanl's request for coordinated action against the enemy to relieve Mujahideen of Herat from the enemy pressure, Mujahideen from Jamiat Island in Barkl Barak and Kolongar districts launched a series of attacks against several enemy posts like Oeh Moghlan, Padkhab, Darwalsh, Qola-i-Sayed Habib and Shabldon on September 14th and 15th. As a result of the above attack 30 enemy soldiers were killed and 17 others wounded. One tank and one truck were set on fire.
  AFGHAM.MBTS___YQL. 11__HQ. 21 1/11/1986   PAGH 5
 In the provincial capital Mujahideen attacked the enemy with heavy weapons as a result of which 6 Soviet soldiers were killed and one RPC was destroyed. 107 mm rockets fired by the Mujahideen else hit the KHRD office end a building belonging to the enemy militias. 10 enemy were killed.
 The enemy retaliated, os usual, by bombing the vllllage In the area with long range artillery. 2 Mujahideen and 6 civilians were martyred and 5 civilians wounded. 15 houses and a mosque were destroyed by the enemy fire. Rll the operations were under the command of Or. Fazluttah, the Jami’at commander In the area.
      OUR MOTO
      RLLOH IS OUR ULTIMATE GORL PROPHET MOHRMMRD IS OUO LCODER THE HOLV QURRN IS OUO CONSTITUTION JEHAD IS OUR lllflV
                                   ‘ j. i
      MRRTYRDOM IN THE HIRV OF DLL OH IS OUR HIGHEST DESIRE
                                     NORTH OF KABUL
 3/10/9186. Soviets and their puppets attacked Oakkoo area of Mlrbachakoot district (about 35 Km. North of Kabul City). Mujahideen ambushed the enemy. Two tanks ond 4 trucks were destroyed and about 30 soldiers were killed or wounded.
 The enemy airforce bombed heavily the area as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed
 No figure for Mujahideen or civilian casualties is given lathe report.
                                     HERAT PROVINCE
 14/10/1986. Mujahideen of Herat attocked a Hotel in the city of Herat in which a large number of Soviet officers and their families were staying. Recording to the report 35 people were killed and a large number of others wounded. The report does not say how the attack was carried out and does not give figures for Mujahideen casualties.
  AFGHAN NSWS___ffij_____NCL21__1/H/I9S6 PAGE 6
                                   EXTREMELY SAD NEWS
Four junior Jamiat commanders mere ambushed ond killed by Soviet agents in Nehrin distiic of Baghlan province.
Commander Soflullaii from Panjshir, the commander of one of the Central units of the North and three commanders from Nehrin mere on a reconnasance mission oreund the enemy garrison in Burke sub-distric ivhen they mere ambushed and killed
Die incident took piece on October 4th. Die three other commanders' mere Leut. Naqshband, Leut. ft. Saiam and commander flmlr Mohammad all from Nehrin district. It mas learned that the culprits mere egents of the Russians mho had infiltrated an Islamic party in the area.
Die nems shacked Prof. Ralbanl, Abdul Kay llaqjom the chief commander of Jomiot In Bagfcien, commander Mcsccd end all those mho heard it.
Peace be upon the souls of our four mnrtyrd commanders mho had been serving the cause of Jehad for C years.
                           THE AMEER OF FERKHAR WAS MARTYRED
                One day after the fell of Forkhar pn»;on, enomy helicopters bombed
the area. Several poo^lo mere injured. Among thosa mas Rmanuiiah Hahshir:, the Rmeer&hc e&EI fidolssistroisr) of Ferkahcr District.
Diere mas no surgaro or prefer ReeCsba to troot film. Ke died tmo days later.
Die nrnrtyrdon. cf Elathlmi ms a sed nsns for tbs pccplo of the area mho admired Urn end spr-sifersd film Dioir foodor. It tics a loss for Commander Maseod to© “who Esst s cSsse sido. Sashka!! taes from Takhor province and mas c gord intclEaetm? mho could mark rnitb his omn people in the mar sltuaf’c?. He is a pod enampio for other educated youth to put their services at the dispsse! of goad commanders inside. Diey ccn piog a esicfi more constructive rclo than sitting in euile and criticizing the situation uiitheut trg’ng to firing a change.
 mm
 U
HE SPVJ
•A NIST AN
   AFGHAN NEVS____YQLJLI____NQ.2I____1/11/1986 PAGE 7
 [FOLLOWIIW IS THE THRH8UITIOH OF ONE OF THE LETTERS OF CONMHDER E8KREEL KHRH JAM I *fVT COmUSIER IH HERAT 1
                                      IN THE NAME OF ALMI6HTY RtlRH
                                              Herat
                                              19/9/1986.
 Head of tlomi'ot Office
 In Mashed
 Iran.
 Dear brother flssalamu Alallcum wa Rahmatullah.
 First of oil I wish you good health and success in serulng the cause of Islam and Muslims.
 The siege of Herat city by-the enemy is continuing and Souiet air and ground forces ore Involved In the attacks along with the puppets.
 The Muslim Mujahideen ore resisting hertocally. Uie ore attacking the enemy position in the different villages around the city. Enemy easualties are high. Many puppet soldiers ore joining the Mujahideen each day.
 On 18/9/1986, fourteen puppet soldiers joined the Mujahideen, life are not worried obout the war with the Soviets and their puppets, what worries us is the lack of ammunition and food. Ule ore buying each RK-47 cartridge for 10 Rfgs. Our food supplies have all been burnt by the enemy and we buy medicine on the black market. The wounded Mujahideen ore suffering from lack of medicine. Most of the houses in the area hove been destroyed either by the enemy airforce or long-range artillery. Our Mujahideen need shoes, sleeping bags and warm clothes. Despite all this the Mujahideen ore continuing their struggle with high morale.
 The enemy morale seems low and they appear tired. Ule are fighting the enemy from house to house and from street to street. If we have the resources we are determined to force the enemy out of the area. The sad news is the martyrdom of Rbdul Hamid Khan the commander of Rhmadi front and his two companions. May they rest in peace.
 I hope that our message will be conveyed to the responsible people In Jomiat and the rest of those who are concerned to know about the heroic struggle of our Mujahideen and their problems.
                               Vours
                               Mohammad Esmaeel Commander of Herat
   AFGHAN NEWS____YQLOI_____NO. 21  1/11/1986    PAGES
                           ATROCITIES IN THE STREETS OF KABUL :
 The last uieek of September was witness to a tragic event in Kabul. A toHi driver was kicked to death by puppet army officers in daylight before one hundred people.
 Mohammad flnwer a Ponjshfri tani driver of obout 55 years old was driving when an army truck bound to Qorgha Division hit his car and partially damaged it. The poor driver who had escaped death was angry and protested to the soldiers why they were not driving carefully. Four Porchamy officers and some soldiers started to kick the old man until his stomach was cut. The poor mand died soon after.             '
 This is Just on ettompie. These events repeat themselves everyday In the enemy controlled cities and along the highways. The killers are ' either Soviets or their puppets and those who are killed are always poor, defenceless Afghans.
                        HOW DO WE SUFFER FROM ONE-SIDED REPORTING
 The publicised withdrawal ceremonies of 8,000 Soviet troops have ended. The Soviets invited a large number of Western Journalists to report the event. Once again the cunning leader ot the Russian empire manipulated the world moss media for deception of world opinion. Photographers, journalists and cameramen reported the events in detail.
 That Is all they could see and report. They did not hove the opportunity to see thousands of deserted end destroyed villages outside the perimeter of the Soviet control. They wore not even shown the torture and enecution center in PuiH-Chorkhi jail where thousands of Afghans ere kept in a very bad conditions.
 These respectable guests did not have the chance to accompany Soviet troops when they operated against Mujahideen and the civilian population of Afghanistan. Neither were they Invited when the new Soviet troops were brought ln.( Soma weeks before the so-colled withdrowol of 8,000 men the Soviets brought in 15,000 more troops but did not invite anybody to witness it), nil this shows that stories that these journalists bring out of the Soviet ccrtroiled zones one one-sided and distorted. The one-sided and distorts 3 story of the withdrawal ceremonies Is harmful te the just cause rf the Afghan Notion and o form of assistance to the invaders.
 Uery few of these respective reporters take the risky trip to cover the other side of the war, the Mujahideen side. From a business point of view covering this side of the conflict is not appealing to them. Mora than that the trip is physically harsh end the threat of Soviet attacks and being branded as a CIA agent if they wore captured, is always a threat.
   ArgflABiffiys___yoiuii_____m.21_____uumm page 9
 In this complicated situation the truth mill disappear behind the clouds of the massive propaganda launched by the Soviets. Nevertheless those feui reporters uiho step out of the material benefit circle, risk their lives and endure molklng long distances mith not enough food to cover the mar deserve every appreciation. If these people mho hove seen the other side go to Kabul to cover the so-called mlthdromol they con not be misled. In that cose the just cause of the Afghan people mIH not suffer the may it Is suffering from the one-sided reports of Ignorant journalists nom.
 (THE FOLLOUINB LETTER UftS SENT BV PROF. B. RRB8RHI, THE LEROER OF JflHIRT ISLflHI OF RFOHRKISTRH TO WX THE UH HISSIOHS IN HEM VODK}
                                           IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
                                        Peshomar
                                        25/9/1986.
 bear Sir,
 On the occasion of the 41st session of the UN General Assembly I mant to dram your attention to the tragic situation In Rfghonlston.
 In April of 1979 a hondfui of Communists took power in Rfghonlston through a military coup. After their Initial success they started to impose an ofian may of life mhich mas in contradiction to our religious beliefs and social values. The people, naturally, resisted the impositions of the regime. The nem rulers used force to implement their plons. Thousands of people mere imprisoned and tortured and a large number of them mere killed, {the regime later admitted these atrocities and called them a mistake}. The people of Afghanistan hod no other choice but to take arms and fight back. War against the regime broke out and quickly spreed oil over Rfghanistan.ln the fall of 1979 a large number of districts and a fern provinces mere liberated from the regime's control. The Afghan Army, mhich takes its personne! through conscription, joined the people and mas reduced to 20,800 from a pre-mor size of 80,000.
 The Soviets mere supporting the Communist regime mith money, iveopons and a large number of advisers at all levels. All efforts to save the regime mere doomed to failure. The regime mas about to fall.
 rhe Soviets, mho hod long term designs in Afghanistan, mere not ready to accept the decision of the people of Afghanistan to choose the type if government they manted.They invaded Afghanistan on the Eve of Christmas 1979.
  ►ince then a cruel mar has continued. The Soviets have increased the lumber of their troops to 150,000. They have improved their tactics ind Introduced nem iveopons. As a result of this mar 5 million people 1/3 of the pre-mor popufetlon) have become refugees outside the ountry. Tmo millions more have become Internal refugees. Half a
  MGflAM-MWS__YOL.il___ML21___1/11/1986 PAGE 10
 million people heue been killed (confirmed by the UN commission on violation of Human Rights In Afghanistan). 75% of all the villages and touins hove been destroyed. In short, a notion Is dying ond o beautiful culture is close to destruction. This is o great tragedy, the largest at the present time.
 Since this tragedy Is played by a super-power, a member of the Security Council and one who votes three times in the 6eneral Rssmbly it must be taken seriously.
 The Soviets have designs beyond their borders. They believe in the division of the world into spheres of influence between the superpowers. If one odds to the above facts the military power this country has and the intentions It hos shown in using it against defenseless countries it becomes obvious that they ore posing o real threat to peace.
 The outcome of wor In Afghanistan will have great consequences on world peace. If the Soviets are victorious, they will be encouraged to repeat what they did In Afghanistan. If they succeed in pacifying Afghanistan and Imposing a puppet regime In Kabul all the small countries will not feel safe ond world tension will increase. This will cause polorzatlon which is not constructive for world peace.
 After seven years of wor the Soviets are not closer to winning the wor.They have failed to crush the resistance and to win o popular base for the puppet regime they have Installed. In the International scene their invasion Is still rejected.
 The Soviets' real Intention seems to be to seek a military solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The new Soviet leader Is more sophisticated than his predecessor. He talks about peace and the withdrawal of troops but from all the military build up it seems he Is planning a long stay In Afghanistan. The Soviets ore using the 6eneva proximity talks to appear to seek peace but what they are doing Is buying time to win the war with little political cost. Asking for a period of four years to withdraw their forces reveals their real Intentions.
 The solution to the problem of Afghanistan comes through a combination of military and political measures.
 Those who have invaded a country must pay the price of their invasion.They should not be left to enjoy their stay in the occupied country. To do this armed resistance is a must and a proper tool In the hand of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan. If we are weak and the Soviets pacify Afghanistan they will not hove any issues to talk about. A strong resistance is a guarantee to a final solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
  AFGHAN NEVS____YOL. II___NCL2J____1/11/1986 PAGE 11
 Despite ail the difficulties, the resistance not only has surulued but has also undergone some position changes. The resistance is enjoying the support of the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan. Without such support the resistance could not have survived the massive Soviet tvar machine. Militarily the resistance is stronger than before. It is better equipped and better organized.
 The resistance has developed a civil organization beside Its mllltory organization. It has committees in the liberated areas which takes care of health, education, refugees, loui and order etc.
 In the political field now ail the parties are organized under an umbrella ' organization which is called "the Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen' The Alliance now has a single spokesman. Better cooperation is seen in the field between Mujahideen.
 To gain an honorable solution to the problem one needs to put political pressure on the Soviets, if they are embarassed about their atrocities against the innocent people of Afghanistan and their peace songs ore challenged with the realities of war. They will start to feel pressed.
 The UN General Assembly votes for the resolutions in which the withdrawal of foriegn troops are demanded is a good enampie of the world’s rejection of the invasion. Whot is needed is for the resolutions to be stronger each year. Polite rejection of the invasion and unnamed condemnation of the aggressor is considered a sign of weakness by the Soviets. It is unjust to the oppressed people if we do not cell the aggressor by name.
 The membership of the puppet regime is another injustice from which we are suffering. The regime in Kabul does not hove a legoi status. The Soviets killed the head of state (he was also a staunch pro-Moscow communist) and brought the present leaders from eHile and called them leaders of Afghenistan.They do not represent anybody In Afghanistan. They ore the interpreters of the Soviet policies in Afghanistan. They and their Soviet master do not have control over more than 20% of the land. Their occupation of the Afghan seat in the United Nation can not be justified. "The Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen” will raise this question soon and we hope oil the peace loving countries will vote for the eKpulsion of the puppet regime and the admission of a representative of the Afghan people.
 We Afghans are not wor-mongering and we are not responsible for the war with the Soviets, if we hod conflicts with the regime it was an internal problem which every country has after a kind . As far os the Soviet Union is concerned we have not done anything which could have provided a pretent for their !nvoslon.The theory of foriegn interference and invitation by the regime are oil fabricated by them and are rejected by the world community.
AFGHAN NEWS____YOL. II NO. 21     1/11/1986___PAGE 12
 life wont peace but peace without freedom does not mean anything to us. life see how the war is destroying our country and killing our loved ones so we do not want it to continue. The key to peace in Afghanistan is in the hands of the Soviet leaders. If they admit the light of the people of Afghanistan to self-determination and withdraw their troops the war will come to on end.
 HELP US TO BURY THE SOVIET AGGRESSION IN THE MOUNTAINS OF AFGHANISTAN. BY GIVING MORAL. POLITICAL AND MATERIAL SUPPORT TO THE AFGHAN RESISTANCE HELP WORLD PEACE AND THE SAFETY OF SMALL COUNTRIES. THIS IS FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL INCLUDING THE POOR SOVIET CITIZENS WHO ARE BEING SENT TO FIGHT AN UNJUST WAR AND DIE FOR       NO    GOOD PURPOSE.
«
 if they want to impose their puppets the people of Afghanistan will continue to resist no matter how long It will take and how many sacrafices they hove to pay.
 Ale hope all those who love peace and believe in the freedom of nations will continue to support us by oil proper means until we win back our freedom. Ille believe that time is not in the favour of the Soviet invaders and the world will not forget the suffering of the people of Afghanistan.
 Although the Soviets have rejected the previous resolutions passed in the General Assembly, they are feeling the pressure of them.
 life are thankful to all those who have supported our just cause in the past and hope they will continue to do so in the future.
 With the best regards
                                    Yours sincerely
                                    Prof. B. Aobbani Leader
                                    Jami at Islam! Afghanistan.
AFGHAN
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMi’AT 1SLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                            Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                 VoL II, No. 22, 15/11/1986.
                                SOVIET INCURSION IN THE MUSLIM WORLD
 The United Arab Emirates have agreed to the opening of a Soviet Embassy in Abu Dhabi. -It is indeed sad news to see that the kilters of the people of Afghanistan are gaining a foothold in a strategic area in the Muslim world.
 The SovietEmpire is based on Marxist-Leninist ideology which denies the existence of God and considers all religious people reactionary. They hate all religions and try hard to destroy them but their enmity towards Islam is greater than to others.
 What the Soviets did to the Muslims of Centeral Asia, the North of Iran and Turkey is a black page in history. Their language, culture, places of worship, in short, every side of their material and spritual life were colonized and Sovietized. The great centers of Islamic knowledge were destroyed forever.             ^
 The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is another example of their enmity towards Islam and Muslims. So far they have killed half a million innocent Muslims and have driven five million from their country and have destroyed 75% of all villages and towns.
 They do all this to pave their way for the expansion of their empire and the control of the world. The double game that the Soviets have played in the Middle East has made it possible for Zionists to enjoy the occupation of Islamic Palestine.
                                                    *
 The opening of Soviet embassies in the Islamic world does not serve any useful purpose. These embassies turn into the centers of conspiracies against the governments, and places for recruiting agents and creating puppet parties.
 Culturlal ties with the Soviets is a way of taking young people to the Soviet Union to brain-wash them.
 Opening the door of an Islamic country to an invader and expantionist who dreams of world hegemony, is giving hope to the invaders to continue their present policies, Once the leaders of the Resistance in Bukhara were saying “ Today Bukhara Tomorrow Afghanistan" but Afghan leaders of the time did not pay attention and we see the consequences of that indifference. Today the people of Afghanistan are saying " Today Afghanistan tomorrow the Gulf. If the leaders of the Islamic countries do not care, and remain indifferent the day which they will regret will not be too far away.
                                             A NEW TYPE OF BOMB
 Soviet criminals are using Afghanistan as a testing ground for their weapons. They have used different types of their weapons in Afghanistan to improve their performance. Recently they have started to use a new type of bomb in Ferkhar and Panjshir. The bomb explodes in the middle of the air and creates a lot of fragments which are pushed towards the ground. The fragments are similar to the fragments created by the explosion of a D-30 artillery shell. The bomb is very strong and its fragments can penetrate the ground up to 30 cm.
  AEGBAHlffilS___YflL. II__WL22_____15/li/mfi____PASJL2
                                        A TRAITOR CAPTURED
 la an occuppied country a few people caa be found who offer their services to the enemy and spy against their own people. In Afghanistan we also have these people who sell their honor and dignity to the enemies of the their religion.
 One such traitor was Qazi Sekander from Andarab in Baghlan province. He was captured by our valiant Mujahideen in Andarab and was submitted to the Judicial authorities to be tried. He was the person who led a delegation to Kabul to meet the puppet Babrak. He had appeared on enemy television and supported the occuption of Afghanistan. He had offered a home-made dock (Chapan) to Babrak, (the greatest traitor), a symbolic gesture to honor him.
 He has now been captured and is facing trail. Every body knows the panelty for such actions and he and other traitors will not escape un-punished.
                        NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
  tt
                                                 PANJSHIB
 29/10/19*6.Mujahideen attacked a Soviet supply convoy in the lower part of the Paajshir valley. One tank, two APCs and 20 trucks full of ammunition were set on fire. The enemy casualties were not immediately known.
 17/10/1986. Mujahideen of Bazarak shot down an Mi-8 helicopter with DShK.
 1/11/1986. One tank was blown up by land mine in Paarakh, 30 Km. inside the valley. All the occupants of the mentioned tank were killed.
 11/10/1986. Mujahideen of Chemalwarda ( aside valley in Rukha) attacked an enemy post on the top of a mountain. The post was destroyed and the Soviets were forced to abandon the mentioned post. Mujahideen suffered no casualties and the casualties of
 the enemy was not immediately known.
 12/10/1986. Mujahideen of Tulkha ( a side valley of Bazarak 33 Km. inside the main valley) attacked the enemy positions in Rahman Kahail with heavy weapons. Two houses occupied by enemy soldiers were destroyed. On the same day, two tanks were blown up by land mines planted by Mujahideen from the same area No figure is given for enemy casulties for the two incidents.
  AFGHAN NEWS____YQJLJL1___N<L_22___15/11/1986   PAGE 3
 15/10/1986. Mujahideen of Gulbahar ( a town in the mouth of the P&ajshir valley) attacked the enemy post at Rah-i-Taag. Three puppet soldiers were captured and one officer killed. The Mujahideen siezed two PK machineguns and five AK-47$.The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 16/10/13986 A Soviet convoy was ambushed by the Mujahideen from ShotoK a small narrow valley situated between the Salang and Panjshir vallieys) on the Salang Highway inside the Salang valley. As a result of a 6 hour battle 50 wehicles carrying ammunition and 3 APCs were destroyed. About 100 Soviet soldiers were either killed or wounded. The attack started at 2:00 PM. and continued till 8:00 PM.
 Salang is a narrow valley through which the Salang highway passes. This highway connects the Soviet border to Kabul. It is the most important transportation route which the Soviets use The Mujahideen are quite well organized in the valleys around this highway and regularly attack this enemy life-line.
 The Mujahideen of Shotoi are commanded by Commander Saeed a pious and dedicated Jami’at figure in the area.
                                          JA WZJANPROVINCE
 l4/8/l986.According to a late report from Sancharak district, Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked a resupply convoy of the enemy fighting continued for ten long days. 4 tanks and 4 trucks were destroyed by land mines or rocket fire from the Mujahideen. 15 puppet troops joined Mujahideen and brought their weapons with themfnemy casualties were believed to be high but no precise figure is available .4 Mujahideen and 10 civilians were martyred while 21 Mujahideen and 19 civilians were wounded. The enemy used jets and helicopters against the Mujahideen. Two heavy weapons of the Mujahideen were destroyed by the enemy fire.
                                          TAKHAS PROVINCE
 According to a report which was sent by the Council of the North, the enemy launched an offensive against Ferkhar district on 3/11/1986. After suffering heavy casualties the enemy reached close to the city of Ferkhar. The perpose of the attack seems to be to re-establish the garrison which they lost some time ago. Fighting is continuing.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
 Afghan News recieved a letter from Esmaeel Khan the chief commander of Herat. The letter was written on 5/10/1986, Here are some important points from the letter:
 1- The siege of Herat which started on 19/7/1986 is still continuing,
 2- The enemy is putting great pressure on the Mujahideen by the extensive use of the airforce and long-range artillery.
 3- The enemy is planning to continue this situation by bringing in more troops.
 4- Our problems are:
       a) Shortage of arms and ammunition
       b) Shortage of food for the Mujahideen and the people
       c) Shortage of medicine and clothes
 5- Enemy casualties are high. According to our sources inside the enemy their
 casualties so far have reached up to 450 dead and wounded.
 6- We have captured 200 enemy troops (puppets) and 180 guns of different types,
 AFGHAN NEWS_VOL. II_WL22_110M13M PAGE 4
 7- So far SO civilians have been killed.
 8- As a result of continous fighting more people are becoming refugees.
 9- Thanks Allah the morale of the Mujahideen is high.
                                         BABAKHSHAN PROVINCE
 19/8/1986. Puppet troops attacked Mujahideen positions in Jurm district They were supported by the airforce and long range artillery. After losing 18 men in 12 hours of battle the enemy retreated.Mujahideen casualties are not mentioned in the report.
 9/8/1986. Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Qala i-Goabad in Jurm with RPG-2s and 7s. Twelve puppets were killed and seven others wounded.
 4/10/1986. Mujahideen attacked a KHAD post in Jurm. 21 communists were killed and 9 others wounded. 25 Ak-47s and some ammunition were siezed from the enemy.
 9/10/1986. The enemy airforce heavily bombed some villages in Jurm district as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed, harvests set on fire and cattle killed.
 10/10/1986. In an ambush set by the Mujahideen, 2 puppet soldiers were killed and 4 others captured.
 After these clashes, attacks on the enemy continued and in period of one month the casualties (dead and injured) of the enemy mounted to 84.
 The report which was written by Haji Zabet the commander of the area gives no figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen and the local civilians. It should be mentioned that recieving news from this area is very difficult. This is due to the distance and road blocks because of the long winter.
                                             KUNAR PROVINCE
 14/10/1986. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the provincial capital of Kunar with 107 mm. rockets Mujahideen fired 200 rounds in five days. According to the report most of the rounds hit the targets and caused damage to the enemy. However there are no details of the enemy casualties . The enemy retaliated by bombing the area. The operation was lauched under the command of khan Jan the commander of Jami'at in Marawar valley.
                                ALMIGHTY ALLAH SAVED RABBANI
 An attempt to destroy the residence of Rabbani was foiled by the Peshawar police on October 28th. Three KHAD agents who were trying to plant a strong bomb in the residence of Prof. B.Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, were captured approaching the house. It was reported that the bomb was six Kg. in weight and was equipped with remote control system. The terrorist gang was composed of two engineers and one medical doctor who were all arrested by the security forces.
 These types of terrorist actions which are engineered by the Soviets to eliminate the Resistance leaders, have continued since the beginning of the war. What is new is the intensity of these types of missions. The new situation requires tight security measures by the Mujahideen parties and their close co-operation with the security forces of Pakistan to identify and capture the enemy agents.
  AEGBABMWS____________MJI__________ML22_______15/11/19116_______PACfi.5
                                        THE SITUATION IN DARWAZ
                                                               a
 Darwaz is a district of Badakhshan province situated along the border with the Soviet Union. The people of Darwaz have been resisting the Soviet invaders and their puppets since 1979 This is a remote area with little connection with the outside world. The reporter of Afghan News talked to Abdul Karim a young Mu jahid from Darwaz who has recently come from the area. Here are some extracts from his conversation:
 It takes one month to come from Darwaz to Pakistan. The route is difficult and one has to climb more than eight passes each about 16,000 feet high. Darwaz is eight days walk from Faizabad the provincial capital of Badakhshan. There is no road passable by car fromFaizabad to Darwaz.
 The Mujahideen of Darwaz are organized in 4 base areas namely, Koof, Sheki. Shoryan and Mymay. The chief commander of Darwaz is Ameer Mohammad Fedaii. All the Mujahideen of Darwaz are members of Jamiat and no other party has a presence there.
 The Mu jahideen have a civilian organization besidse the military organization in the area. They have financial, military, cultural and judicial committees. The Chief Justice of Darwaz is Mawiawi Shair Ahmad. Shariat Law is applied in the area and Mujahideen collect taxes to meet their needs.
 The medical situation in the area is bad. There is no doctor . There are only two paramedics who have studied short term courses in Peshawar. The people are deprived of the merits of modern medicine.
 Mujahideen do not have any publication but they are running ten schools. The teachers are chosen from amongst the educated people and the religious scholars.
              WE THANK ALL THOSE 122 COUNTRIES WHO VOTED FOR THE UN RESOLUTION ASKING FOR THE WITHDRAWAL OF THE FOREIGN(SOVIET) TROOPS FROM AFGHANISTAN.
 The food situation is very serious. The area is very mountinous and does not have a lot of land which could be cultivated. The available land does not yeiid enough because of the absence of good seed and the lack of enough cattle. The Soviets burn the crops when they attack. People bring food from Ragh area which takes eight days for a two way journy . Last spring both Mujahideen and the local people were facing shortage of food In order to be able to buy food they need cash This is the only way to help the people and Mujahideen in this remote area.
 In one village last year, the Soviets killed 60 cows and 30 donkeys and a large number of sheep and goats.
 Militarily speaking, the Mujahideen in this area have logistic problemsShortage of weapons and ammunition are alway a problem.
 Darwaz is located on the border and the Amu river seperates the area from the Soviet Tajikistan province. The villages are so close that one can see a man standing in a Soviet village from an Afghan village. In all the military operations the Soviets bring
  MGM&MSS________MJI_______ML22_____15/11/1986___PAGE 6
 their troops from the other side of the the river. They have established p6sts inside the the Soviet territory opposite each Afghan village . They have stationed tanks and other heavy weapons in these posts. When they want they pound Afghan villages from these
 posts.
 Almost all the military operations launched by the enemy in the area are in the form of commando actions. Planes fly from the Soviet territory and even the heavy weapons fire from the Soviet Union.
 Last year (1985), Soviets massacred 60 civilians in Walfath’ village using hand grenades. Among those who were killed were women and children. In this village and a neighboring village 100 houses were razed to the ground by enemy planes.
 The Soviets are being helped by about 700 militiamen from Darwaz. These people are affiliated with a communist party called Setam-i-Milli(National Depression Party), a faction of the Khalq party which seperated from it some years back. No Khalqi or Perchami is present in the area.
 Mujahideen have been very active (taking into account their limited resources) in the area. Some times they have carried out cross border operations. Last year , Samiuliah a commander of the Mujahideen crossed the river at night with his friends and attacked a Soviet post, killed some soldiers and returned back safely. Mujahideen have also mined roads inside the Soviet Union which has destroyed some vehicles.
 A big explosion took place in Qala-i-Khan air base inside the Soviet Union. Ammunition dumps burned for one weak and a number of helicopters and antonov planes were destroyed. Mujahideen of the area claim responsibility for this action and say that it was their sabotage work.
 The Soviets are making use of pressure anti-personnel mines in Darwaz. These are plastic mines which can not be detected by metal detectors.
 The Soviets try to terrorize the civilian popultion of the area to stop them from helping the Mujahideen. One day they killed 8 people with axes in broad daylight. They were suspected of helping Mujahideen.
 Despite all the difficulties and enemy pressure the morale'of the Mujahideen is high and they believe in their final victory, They are unitied and relatively organized. They badly need weapons , ammuntion and cash to buy their needs and the needs of the people in the area.
                                             PUPPETS ADMIT
 Najibullah.the leader of the puppet regime has admitted that some students publicly express their anti-Soviet sentiments in educational instituations run by the puppet regime. He warned that such oppositions would be crushed by strong measures.
 Most of the people living in the Soviet controlled areas support the resistance. So far all the harsh measures to curb such anti- Soviet activities has failed and Najibs remarks is a sign the of frustration of the puppets.
                                           WISHFUL THINKING
 The Soviet puppets in Afghanistan have made many false promises to their their latest is the most extreme.
 Najib has promised the party members that Kabul province will be cleared of the presence of Mujahideen in a period of three months.Najib has resorted to the slogans of 1978.1n those days they were boasting about their victories and were thinking that they had succeeded in imposing the Soviet system on the Afghan people. They were
  AFGflAfUffilES____MJI_________NQ.22______15/11/1986____PAGE 7
 defeated by the people and finally came back to the country vith 100,' 000 foreign troops.
 Nov that seven long years have passed the Red Army has not been able to take even fev steps tovards vhat they came for. Najib and his coileaques should have learned their lessons by nov and should abstain from making such slogans.
 Three months is a short period for a guerilla var. It vill come to an end soon and the Mujahideen vill be more active not only in Kabul province but in and around the city itself.
 Najib is preaching such victories for tvo purposes. Inside the country he vants to give hope for a demoralized army and outside he vants to shov the vorld that he is gaining ground in the var against the Mujahideen. But vishful thinking and false promises only frustrate them more.
                                    WPC DENOUNCED SOVIET INVASION
 The World Peace Council vhich is considered a Soviet backed organization held its con gress last month in Copenhagen.
 The chairman of the Radical Party of Denmark denounced the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 30 demonstrators entered the hall vhere the congress vas in session and raised slogans against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
 The leader of the largest labour union in Denmark criticized the situation in Soviet block countries vhere trade unions do not have the liberty to criticize the military stand of their governments.
 It is a good sign that justice is defended in such a congress vhich has been a traditional supporter of the Soviet policies.The Soviets usually hide behind the vords and manipulate some organizations to give them a peaceful image.But everything has a limit.The Soviets have invaded a small neighbouring country and have been busy killing its people since seven years. It has also has helped Vietnam to invade Cambodia. With all this hov can they claim to support peace.
 We appreciate the Danish organizations stand to raise their voices against aggression committed by a super pover. The incident embarrassed the Soviet delegation and this is the price they have to pay for the unjust var they have unleashed against the people of Afghanistan.
                                        CAN WE TRUST THE SOVIETS
 The Soviet leader has sent a message to Robert Mogabe the current chairman of the NAM. In his message the Soviet leader has assured him of Soviet co-operation vith NAM.
 The Soviets try to give the impression that they are supporters of the NAM. In some cases they call themselves the natural allies of the non-aligned countries. In the past there vere some people vho believed that, but the events in the past ten years have shovn that the Soviets do not respect the NAM principles and ignore its requests.
 The Soviets invaded Afghanistan vhich vas a member of the NAM. Several resolutions asking for the vithdraval of the Soviet troops have been passed by the NAM all of vhich have been rejected by the Soviets. They also have helped the Vietnamese to occupy Cambodia and var continues there too. With all these blatant voilation of international lav and creating the greatest human tragedies of the time, hov can they claim that they have any concern for peace and the veil being of the poor nations.
 The NAM vhich the Soviets vant and support, is the one vhich supports her policies and only criticize the other super power. In the eyes of the Soviets, Cuba and India vho
AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                             Post Office Box No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                                SPECIAL ED1TI0N,25/11/1986.
                                            A CHANGE IN THE NORTH
                                                 By MAS(X)D KHALIL I
 The most strategic provinces of the North of Afghanistan such as Baghlan, Takhar, Kundoz and Badakhshan on the Northern flank of Hindukush, neighbouring enemy land (USSR) and Parwan and Kapisa on the Southern flank of Hindukush neiboring Kabul, are no doubt important and vital both for Mujahideen and the Russian invading ~ forces. "Dominate Hindukush rule Afghanistan" a theory in the mind of Russian strategists, clearly shows the importance of the North .
    It is also important because
    (a) It is mountainous with base areas which can not be easily penetrated
    (b)  907. of its civilian population still lives there
    (c)  Salang supply route, backbone of Soviet logistics, runs through.
    (d)  It neighbors Soviet Russia from one side and Kabul from another.
    (e)  People of occupied central Asian Republics of USSR share the same language, religion and culture with the people of the north which creates a kind of penetration phobia in the mind of the Russians.
    (f)  It has a historically sound cultural heritage with 100% devout muslims.
    (g)  It has four regular seasons and fertile flat areas good for agriculture
    (h)  And lastly it has a large number of Mujahideen with at least six years of war experience.
 Realising the strategic importance of the northern provinces, the Russians right from the beginning of their invasion directed their efforts to pacify the people, control the area and, if possible, Sovietize the whole society. This called for extensive work in their part
 For the Mujahideen and for the people too, it was not difficult to know what Soviets really want in Afghanistan and particularly in the North. Almost everyone knew miserable stories of Muslims in Russia, which had been brought by those who had escaped to Afghanistan about sixty years ago. The problem for Mujahideen was not "what to do" but the problem was "how to do" it. This needed not only extensive work but also organized one with greater sacrifice on their side, too.
   AFGHAN NEWS____SPECIAL EDITION 25/11/1986 PAGE 2
                                               MILITARY SITUATION
                                                 Pressure on civilians
 Tactics used by Soviet occupation troops in the North have been more or less the same as used in other strategically important parts in Afghanistan:
    (1) Heavy bombardemt by their advanced and sophisticated fighting aircrafts.
    (2) Rubblising and flattening to depopulate the villages by heavy and long range artillery.
    (3) Launching massive ground offensives to capture Mujahideen bases and hideouts to establish their own posts
    (4) Ambushing supply routes
    (5) Using different types of mines around their posts to stop both infiltration and defiltration
    (6) Infiltrating the rank and file of Mujahideen through their intelligence networks.
 Although the Russians have not introduced any new tactics since a year ago. they have done two main things: stepped up the war and intensified previous tactics to bring pressure more on innocent unarmed civilians, in an expanded operational zone. Additional subtactics, such as deliberate burning of harvests, destroying irrigation systems, contaminating drinking water, looting peoples property , forcefully conscripting the youth to use them in the battle fields against the Mujahideen and sending hundreds of children to have them brainwashed in Soviet Russia, added to the pressure on civilians. As Commander Massoud said ' pressure on civilians is more now ", "Russians have not changed their tactics in the North but they have changed their direction from Mujahideen to unarmed civilian population".
 With this change of direction the Soviets have made the war more brutal, wild and inhuman A local Mujahid commander told me that "the target of the Rusians is not just Mujahideen hideouts but also civilians muddy huts” . This is why this year in the North every body was talking about civilians plight
 The question is why do Russians bring so much pressure on civilians?
 "Out of frustration". Although this answer looks strange in fact it is true. Despite enormous difficulties, people s cooperation with Mujahideen has been increasing in every sphere of life. Hence the Russians have been trying to depopulate strategic areas of the civilian population which co-operates with the Mujahideen by driving them out of the country or sending them into the main cities under their limited control. Killing and maiming are side effects of this tactic.
 At present the Soviets policy can be summarized into two main parts which are indeed complement each other .
    (a) - hitting stragtegically important and centrally organized bases of Mujahideen.
    (b) - bringing military, economic and psychological pressures on civilians in the strategic areas of the north.
 So escalation of the war can be a logical outcome of this policy
 "Organizataional work is the only effective challenge to this sinister policy in such and unequal and prolonged war". So Mujhideen in the north were busy, though slower in the flat areas, in organizing themselves militarily and mobilizing themselves politically. No doubt there will be a long and hard way to go but with a higher morale and hope, inshallah, they will reach it
   AFGHAN NEWS SPECIAL EDITION_____15/11/19&6___PAGE 3
                                      ORGAINZED WORK IN THE NORTH,
                                          AN EFFECTIVE CHALLENGE
 Before we see what the Mujahideen have done and what they are doing now as far as organizational work is concerned, it is better to briefly discussthe socio-political contest on which the organization is being built
 The terms like organization, mobilization and coordination have only rarely been used amongst Mujahideen in the area, and some who knew these words did not know how to bring them into practice There were also those who thought it is impossible to achieve this goal of organizing the war Different parties, differnt nationalities, different languages, different socio-economic interests were the reasons for those who were "justifiably pessimistic"' Militarily speaking, every village had its own commander who * was proud of protecting that given village from occasional enemy attacks With the passage of time these village commanders grew bigger up to district level or even provincial levels and in the meantime grew more independent. Some of them \ considered themselves if not the petty kings, the "absolute Maliks" of that village or district. They were themselves the only source of authority
 In many cases even if they were affiliated to one political party they did not only cooperate but also competed and fought amongst themselves. Charging higher taxes, disarming another weaker group without any good reason, deciding on life and death of people without a judicial system were the characteristics of some of the commanders but fortunately very few in number
 To correct these things a plan was needed, a practical plan, an effective commander and a dominant party. Commander Massoud, with the help of Almighty God, became organizer of this challenge and Jamiat Islami as a party became its strong backing power.
                               PHASES OF ORGANIZATIONAL WORK:
 (t) Preliminary meetings:
 Based on Prof Rabbanis permit, there were three general body meetings in which main Mujahideen commanders from about six provinces of-the North participated. The first meeting was at Shar Shar ( Eshkamesh district in Takhar province) in 1983- The second one, bigger than the first, was held at Khawak (Panjshir) in 1984. And the third one was held at Khailab(Takhar) in 1985 in which practical decisions were taken. In the third meeting some other effective commanders from other like-minded political parties also participated In all these three meetings the main question was how to organize and coordinate Mujahideen and help civilians. In the first practical step, the meeting resulted in the formation of the Supervisory Council of the North.
 (2) Supervisory Council:
 It works in between the sessions of general body meetings. It has an executive force combined with an effective administrative power. It enforces the decisions taken by the meeting of the commanders. It has a strong judecial system to deal with the problems concerned. It includes different committees such as financial, cultural, educational, health It prepares a report of its problems and achievments to be presented to the meetings of commanders. It has authority over six provinces. Although its works are promising still, due to economic reasons and lack of personnel, it works more slowly than expected. It needs more time to be firmly established
 (3) Solving poJtical problems:
 "Political problems were enormous but thanks God solvable" The head of Takhar Sayed Ahmad from Jamiat told me that there were tensions (a) Amongst some Jamiat commanders, (b) Between Jamiat and other group commanders and (c) Amongst other
  AEGHABMEWS SPECIAL JIM IlfflS 15/11 U3M_PAGEJL
 group commanders themselves. The tensions were of different natures such as parochial ways of thinking, regional ways of contacting others, traditional ways of organizing their Mujahideen, selfish ways of social behavior, rival ways of approaching or dealing with other parties and above all, Khad's extensive efforts to infiltrate Mujahideen and take advantage of the mentioned weak points. Thanks to God, commanders having this kind of individualistic and personal interests were in minority and a good majority of people and Mujahideen were in favour of correcting such a suffocating "no plan no organization" atmosphere
 According to commander Massoud about 70% of the problems have been solved through a real day and night work with the help of religious scholars (Ulama), elders and like-minded commanders from other parties. Although this initiative is Jamiat's, it does not mean at all that Jamiat wants other parties to be a part of it. The gist of the work is " be in your own party but get organized before the enemy destroy your forces ". Government has no doubt increased its propaganda saying that it is Massoud who wants to expand his zone of influence and power or it is Jamiat which has a so called expansionist policy Unfortunately some naive and narrow-minded people outside Afghanistan, mainly in Peshawar, are encouraging this idea without thinking about its harmful repercussions In fact it is not a challenge to their authority but to the common enemy
 (4)  Local atiiances:
 To continue the process of easing tensions and solving diffrences amongst commanders, to maintain what they have already achieved in this regard, to prepare joint operations and coordinate military activities and to help civilians to live in harmony with Mujahideen, local alliances were created. They are at the provincial and district levels, Most of the joint operations this year launched in Kundoz. Takhar and Baghian have been the work of these alliances (see Afghan News Vol. II, No. 7). Victory over Farkhar garrison was a brilliant work of joint cooperation of these local alliances
 (5)  Organization of the Base Areas:
 There were two types of base areas in the North which Mujahideen had to build and organize : (a) Mountain base areas and (fa> flat base areas
 The work in the (a) type has to a large erten 1 been completed. In the first place Mujahideen chose strategic and deep valleys with high mountains parallel to each other and providing an easy retreat. Mountain bases like Khailab, Namakab, Farkhar, Ishkamesh, Kishm Worsai, Khost-o-Fereng, Sahng, Kohhand-i-Kohistan etc. were organized This process included both establishing new bases and organizing the already established ones Each base has its own defensive, mobile and strike groups Beside this the bases have their sub-bases or sQarargah) with their own special activities to do Each base has also its own administrative system with an effective judicial one Each base has its own general commander with tens of group-commanders. Hundreds of Mujahideen are busy working in their groups Training centres have been established in different bases to ' atn those who had no training. A limited number of medical clinics and a good number of primary and mosque schools (madrasas) have been opened. With a limited number of Jack Hammers that they have, groups are busy digging caves in the maountains to make shelters for civilians and Mujahideen to protect themselves from bombardments. Wherever possible irrigation channels are repaired or built Supply routes are corrected In short each base has its military and social responsiblities to be fulfilled According to many commanders Panjshir has been followed and even copied in the North despite Russian efforts over four years to prevent it They said Panjshir should no longer be called the only base for Soviet offensives But still, I found it a "mother base”
 Russians tried twice in the summer of 1986 to destroy the bases by a heavy eleven day bombardment combined with extensive use of long range artillery as well as hundreds of heliborn commando troops but, thank God they failed The credit undoubtedly goes to the organizational work of Mujahideen, (see From Theory to Practice pages 9- 13, Jami at fslami Publication)
  AEGflANNEWS___SPECIAL EDITION_15/11/1986 PAGE 5
 Although orgnizational work in the flat base areas is going on, it still needs a lot of work
 (6) Creating central groups:
 The need for central groups was felt right from the beginning. It was decided to first select the most experienced Mujahideen of Jamiat from six provinces and then expand it to other parties in the other provinces. The idea was to train these groups and produce qualified cadres Eligibility was (1) to be a good muslim (2) educated (3) with at least six years of war experience. Some groups recieved extensive training for six months According to Mohammad Muslim a central group commander," every Mujahid in the central group is capable (God willing) of commanding and training other groups " These groups are mobile They participate in the larger operations and they are t sent to organize the areas too. Worsaj valley was organized by group No. 2 in about two months although the area was relatively difficult The work of training more groups was slowed down by Russian offensives and lack of financial resources
 SOME SPECIAL CHARCTARISTICS OF THE ORGANIZATIONAL
                                WORK                     /
 (a) Mobility:
 Mobility is the base of the organizational work in the. north. Almost all the units are made of smaller and mobile groups. They believe that in a militarily unequal war mobility is vital. Without it the whole organizational system will be in danger. They believe that positional warfare is suicide. So from the leadership down to the supply units ail are mobile.
 (b)  Discipline:
 Once an area is organized, disciplinary measures become a necessary part of that organization , The orders come from the top and are obeyed by the lower levels. It is not at all a military atmosphere where troops obey whatever the officer says. Here the low levels are consulted in every matter and a decision is taken by all or majority. The minute the decision is taken then every body is bound by it In one case a very effective commander was imprisoned for one month because he neglected the order of the deputy of the supervisory council. Moreover rational obedience is a part of our religion, and consultation or Jerga is the core of our social and traditional behaviour,
                                                •
 (c)  Protection of civilians:
 Civilian protection has become the uppermost priority for the organization. Protection does not always necessarily mean military protection but also social, economic, political, moral, administrative and judicial protection as well. Beside other forms of protection, Mujahideen place the emphasis on economic and judicial ones,
                                               CONCLUSION
 Organizational work in the North is one of the sources of our optimism regarding the future of Jehad With such a kind of continous organizational work, we will(Inshailah) be able to bring more and more pressure on the Soviets inside Afghanistan. It will also create a reasonable context to make our friends in the world more optimistic and if possible to increase their support to meet our multi-dimentional needs.
 We believe that with the help of Almighty God, and an effective and continuous organization! work, as well as mobilized and united world public opinion against invasion, along with prompt help for Mujahideen and civilians, we will force the enemy to revise its policy.
  Note: Masood Khalili is a political Officer ofjamiat istami Afghanistan who has fust returned from a three months trip to Afghanistan. The above information is based on his personnel observation.
3A0AKHSHAN
 JOZ JAN irv^t
TAKHAff
LAGH-AiN
KAP1SA
Ittja
PiftWN
ar Dak
> Kashmir
AFGHANISTAN
A R I C
       Afghanistan Post Box No 264, G P 0 Peabafrar—PaUrtaa ..^ .......   '  ™ sasss^BSffss^s^smmrnarnm
 MEDICAL TREATMENT ABROAD
           of Afghanistan and the resistance against them' for more than six years. Each year the war escalates and new heights.
            bombers, SU-25 jets and MIG-24 Helicopters in bombardments caused many deaths and injuries. The use of
        of different types is a major reason for amputations,
    of successive offensives causes numerous injuries.
 witnessedan increase in the number of people killed-or situation inside the country is not very good, treatments, patients must be carried to Pakistan for fur-some are treated but others"can not receive of experienced doctors, proper equipment
  necessary to treat these brave people abroad. Treatment means:              ,
        e from the host country towards a nation which is survival.
        for a needy,person.                   »
        to a just cause, for the host nation to see the Soviet atrocities
     for millions who suffer but who will feel that they alone in their struggle.
                     the Soviets that the free people of the world can not
           these crimes against the innocent Afghan people.
                                                          in the world have condemned the Soviet invasion How the time has came for these by treating some wounded abroad in,the past but more is x stopped their atrocities.
            NEWS
                                       KUITDUZ PROVINCE
 5-1-86
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Qasab village in Chardara District .
 Fighting took place between then and the Mag abideen. About 30 soldiers were killed or wounded. Two Mujahids were injured.
 15-12-86
 Soviet-DEA forces launched an offensive against Mujahideen of Takhar.
 The enemy forces were composed of 500 tanks, APCs and trucks which were supported by Jets and Helicopters. The enemy was to attack the Hugahidin in Taluqan area first and then proceed to Ferkhar, Kalafgan and Kishra. Mujahideen of Jamiat in Taluqan fought well, 15 tanks and trucks were destroyed and GO enemy soldiers and officers including Soviets were killed. Four Mujahids were martyred and six others were wounded. Twelve civilians were also martyred . The enemy force enetred Farkhar . The Mujahideen continued to resist. Five tanks were destroyed by land mines.
 Mujahideen performance end cooperation in this engagement was admirable As a result of this operation many villages were destroyed . The aerial bombardments of the area.is still continuing.
 Farkhar is. a. district of Takhar , Kalafgan is a sub-district of Takhar and Kishm is a district of BadaLchshn province located between Takhar and Faizabad the provincial capital of Badakhshan province.
                                    N^GARHAR^PROVINCE
 On 21th of January a group of refugees from the North of Afghanistan ,
          enxoute Pakistan, were attaclced by Soviet planes in Ghawgeez area of Kes-
 arak district of Ilangarhar province. Eleven persons including children *
 ■women and old people were killed and a big'number of them were injured.
                                     t
 These types of shameless a.ctions are in conformity with the general policy of genocidq which Soviets are carrying on in Afghanistan.
                     MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION RECEIVED
 The president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ayatullah Khomanaey, received a delegation of Mujahideen on January 4th and exchanged 'views with them . The Mujahideen delegation was headed by prof.3.kabbani, leader of -Jamiat Is1ami Afghanistan.
 The president praised the people of Afghanistan for their struggle . He rejected the idea of talking with the puppet regime. He mentioned that any solution to the problem of Afghanistan cannot be achieved without the participation of Afghan people .
 It should be noted that more than one million Afghan refugees are living in Iran, and we have historical, cultural and religious ties with Iranians. Iran strongly supports the participation of Mujahideen in any dialogue for a pes.ceful settlement to the problem of Afghanistan,
                          SlgXBgS AgCI^T_^T,BROTHBRS
 Cur enemy, the Soviets, are teaching that Mujahideen are reactionaries who do not treat their women-well and deprive them of political cultural and educational activities. They do this to justify their invasion.
 On the other Hand some Westerners also think in a similar way and are hesitants to support the Mujahideen wholeheartedly.
 While Soviets propaganda is part of their total war against Afghans the westerners’s doubts are based on lade of enough knowledge of Islam and nature of Afghanistan resistance.
 Simple facts reject these theories. Jamiat Is1ami is branded by many westerners as a fundamentalist party. This organization has women's.^branch and is running girls school in Pakistan. The women’s branch of Jamiat .has a monthly paper called :;I.‘omenat” the r.vuslin women.
 The only difference betvreen our education system and that which is' common iji the west is the observation of the cultural values of our people.
  • * . • •
 different types or clothes do^ not have any relationship with education. -
 Cur sisters are as active in the support of Jehad as our brothers.
                          FILij^CEWTE?^ CP^JED
 Jamiat Islami opened a Film Centre on January sixth. The purpqse of the centre is to train young war cameramen and photographers to bring films *
 from inside the country and send them to the rest of the world. So far there has not been a system to do this regularly.
 In the past some T.V companies have sent teams inside and some freelance journalists also went to bring films and photographs. 3ut for such a big war and vast country these teams are too few.
 The Film Centre is new. and does not have proper’equipment, But the main point about this Centre is that its instructers have experiences in T.V and camera work, and have the ability to train good students and are determined to work inside the country.
 Jamiat Islam! feels that establishing such a centre is a step forward towards informing the world about the difficulties our people are facing in their struggle against the Soviet invaders and the atrocities they a*e committing against the Afghan people.
 Any material support in this direction is fully appreciated and serves