 i
r
Vo1 6> N° 1__nnn^R^L{ January 1 ,1990
Najibullah’s ’Heroes harass Kabul’s people
     Regime militias have been accused of creating problems for the safety of the people of Kabul.
     Recently a group of Jawzjani militiamen who are stationed in the northern defences of the city indulged themselves in armed robbery %nd indecent attacks on women in the city.
     Jawzjani militiamen are said to be good fighters and they were brought by the regime to Kabul after the Soviet troops withdrawal. They also have been fighting in other fronts as well. Kabul regime leader, Dr. Najibullah once called them "national heroes". People speculpte that they are Soviet soldiers from Central Asia, but the regime denies this.
     The Kabul regime has been using militias from one area against resistance in different areas to create misunderstandings between people of different
    An ex-minister of the regime and two diplomats have defected to the Mujahideen.
    Pacha Gul Wafa, 44, a minister of Civil Aviation and Tourism in Dr. Hasan Sharq’s cabinet has recently crossed the border to Pakistan. At a press conference held in Peshawar on the 18th of December, he told the reporters that he had joined Hezb Island (Hikmartyar) after the Soviet invasion in 1979.
    Wafa, an original resident of Paktia province, was very close to the late President Daud. He studied electronic engineering in the Soviet Union and served in the Afghan air force as an officer. He had plaiyed an active role in the coup against King Zahir Shah, and became the minister of Frontiers in Duad's cabinet He has also served as the Afghan ambassador to Bulgaria,
 regions.
     The regime has announced putting one hundred Jawzjani militiamen in jail for their indulgence and misbehavior towards the people in the capital. The Jawzjani are said to be presently restricted to their barracks. A variety of special privileges given to Jawzjani militiamen have annoyed other units of the regime's security faces.
     The Kandahari militias head by Esmat Muslim have also been roaming freely in the capital. They have been accused of kidnapping girls and looting people’s property in day light. Once they engaged in fighting with the security forces of the regime causing embarrassment for Najibullah during a meeting of local elders.
     Militia forces have joined the regime for different reasons . A common thing among all of them is corruption and indulgence in immoral acts.
 Libya and India.
     Mr. Wafa said Soviet advisors are still in control of the three ministries of Defense, Interior and State Security (WAD). He stated that the Soviet military advisors were involved in combat activities and without their help the Afghan army cannot fire SCUD missiles. He disclosed that the Russians have given to the regime a new type of rocket called Tula-Two, which is mac powerful than the SCUDS.
     Wafa was of the opinioi that holding elections before the defeat of the regime will be difficult
     Two other defections to the Mujahideen have included Mirza Aqa Gul and Aminullah who were regime diplomats posted in Pakistan. Last June, Abdul Wakil another regime diplomat working in the Afghan embassy in Islamabad did join the Mujahideen.
               give back medals
     A group of Soviet soldiers who had participated in the Afghan war have asked the Soviet parliament to denounce the war as a crime against the Soviet and Afghan people.
     Approximately 100 soldiers on the 15th of December, gathered for a meeting in a park in the Republic of Lithuania on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. A further 2000 people including families of those killed and disabled soldiers from the Afghan war participated in the meeting.
     At the end of the meeting, about 100 veterans of the Afghan war marched to the door of the Republic’s parliament and returned their medals and certificates they had received during their service in Afghanistan. A total of 210 medals and certificates were returned and a document was signed by the representatives of the soldiers and government officials. The speaker in the meeting asked the Soviet parliament in Moscow to denounce the invasion of Afghanistan as a dime against the people of the two countries. Earlier the Soviet government announced an amnesty fa all.those who had committed crimes during the 10 year war in Afghanistan.
     Soviet soldiers entered Afghanistan (Hi the 27th of December, 1979, to defend the regime against what they called "outside enemies of Afghanistan". The official explanation of the invasion did not convince the soldiers who saw themselves fighting against ordinary Afghan people.
     Soviet parliament in its recent session passed a resolution denouncing the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The resolution calls the invasion a morally and politically wrong action.
     Soviet troops were sent to Afghanistan by Brezhnev to replace one communist leader with another and suppress the popular movement against the communists' rule.
Kabul regime ex-minister defects to the Mujahideeii
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
r— -                 -
                 News
             From the battlefields
                              Salang
     The Mujahideen from the Supervisory Council of Jami'at blocked the Salang Highway for three days and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy in Salang, Jabulseraj and Bagram.
     The Mujahideen on the 16th of December, attacked the enemy's positions in Salang Valley, Jabulsert, Totom Dara and Bagram air base. The heavy weapons of the Mujahideen pounded the enemy posts and installation causing heavy casualties on them.
     The Mujahideen had planned an attack on the enemy positions in Deh Naw, but due to heavy mine fields the attack was called of after four Mujahideen were injured by mine explosions.
     Bagram air base was attacked with heavy weapons but no details of casualties were immediately available.
     In Salang Valley, eleven post and the sub-district administrative headquarters were totally destroyed. Four tanks were destroyed and 40 enemy soldiers were killed and 20 were injured.
     The Mujahideen attacked the enemy garrison and out post in Jabulseraj with heavy weapons. Three enemy posts were wiped out in Qala-i-Sahra area. Four enemy soldiers were killed and two wounded.
     Twelve soldiers were killed and 15 injured when the Mujahideen attacked the enemy installation of Urg-i-. Jabulseraj. Two tanks were destroyed
     In Totom Dara, at the mouth of Ghoiband, two enemy posts were destroyed and four soldiers woe killed.
     On the 18th of December, twenty oil tankers and two tanks were set on fire in Jangal Bagh area.
     In the three day operation, four Mujahideen were injured in Salang and
 seven people from a single family were killed in Shotol when a SCUD missile hit their residence.
    A total of four SCUD missiles were fired into the Shotol valley causing destruction of many houses.
    The regime has fired many Origan rockets in different parts of Shamali. Due to cloudy air conditions, the regime air force remained out of action.
    The Mujahideen called of their three day attack due to snow fall.
   Takhar province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy positions in Khwaja Ghar district on the 10th of December, killing 50 enemy soldiers and capturing 14.
    Seven posts were destroyed and the following armaments were captured: one AGS-17 grenade launcher, three RPG rocket launchers and more than 50 rifles of different types.
    The Mujahideen lost six men and ten others sustained injuries. The enemy fired four SCUD missiles and its war planes bombed Taloqan and the surrounding areas of Khwaja Ghar, killing at least 30 civilians and injuring a large number of them.
    In the attack against Kwaja Ghar a small group from Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf) also took part.
    Balkh province
    An enemy transport plane was shot down with a Stinger missile on the 9th of December, in Sholgar district
    All 25 occupants of the plane were killed. The enemy have continued aerial -bombing and firing by artillery and rockets on the Mujahideen positions. Recently 20 Mujahideen including two commanders were martyred and more than 40 were wounded as a result of these bombardments. Jami'at is a leading fighting force in Balkh.
    Herat province
    Fifteen armed militiamen woe captured by the Mujahideen under the command of Ismael Khan on the 16th of December, in Beland Aab area of Guzara district.
    The next day 20 armed militiamen were captured in Gooshmir area of the same district
    The militiamen belonged to Sayed Ahmad, a commander of pro-regime militiamen in Herat
    On the 11th of December, the Mujahideen captured five militiamen and wounded five others in Qala-i-Yusuf Khan of Guzara. The Mujahideen seized eight guns in this operation.
    On the same day two trucks belonging to a militia group were destroyed by land mine and four militiamen were killed in Babaji Sahib, outside the city of Herat
    On the 13th of December, the enemy forces attacked the Mujahideen position in Haji Aabad, close to the Iran border. A BM-13 rocket launcher and two tanks of the enemy were destroyed by the Mujahideen.
    The next day, the Mujahideen destroyed eight tanks and trucks in Gorg Aabad of Ghooryan district, killing 15 enemy militiamen and capturing 30 guns. Two Mujahideen were injured in this operation.
    On the 15th of December, fighting between the Mujahideen and Communist forces took place in Kohsan district which resulted in the killing of two enemy officers and injuring of another.
    On the same day the Mujahideen fired rockets into the civilian Khad (regime's secret police) headquarters in Herat city, killing four members of that organization.
                                             Land mine kills 13 refugees
    Thirteen refugees were killed in Logar when the vehicle carrying them hit a Soviet-planted mine in the first week of November, MEDIA reported.
    The pick-up carrying refugees was on its way to Pakistan when the tragedy happened.
    The report say that the ill-fated pick-up was travelling at night to avoid aerial bombing from the communists and entered a mine field created by the Soviets before their withdrawal.
     Due to fighting and harsh life in Kabul a lot of people are trying to escape to Pakistan.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page©
Iran abandons plan to shift refugees to camps
    The Foreign Committee of the Iranian Parliament has rejected the bill to resettle the two million Afghan refugees living in Iran in special refugee camp.s. A group of Parliamentarians had presented the bill to the house. This bill requested that refugees register with the authorities of the Islamic Republic within three months so that their transfer to special refugee camps could be arranged. Those who tabled the bill argued that the step was necessary to curb drug trafficking and other illegal activities related to law and order.
      The bill provoked a strong reaction from the Mujahideen parties and the refugee community in Iran. The head of Harakat Islami office in Tehran told the BBC that the refugees were against the decision of sending them to special camps and that such action will create tremendous problems for the refugees. He further said that the plan to resettle the refugees will create ill-feeling between Afghans and Iranians which is against the interest of both sides.
      Khair Khwah, the head of Jami'at office in Tehran criticized the plan. He
                                              Communists ruin the resort town
     An Iranian journalist who has just returned from a trip around Kabul says that Kabul is surrounded by the Mujahideen from all directions.
     Talking to the BBC, he said that Paghman, a town 15 kilometers west of Kabul was controlled by the Mujahideen.
     When asked who controlled Paghman Bazaar, he said that there was no bazaar in Paghman. Everything there is destroyed.
     The Iranian journalist who travelled to Paghman with the Mujahideen from Jami'at was a witness to oversee the exchange of prisoners between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime through the mediation of local elders.
     He said the people faced shortages of food and other commodities. He described Mullah Ezat, Jami'at commander in Paghman, a clever person who has built schools for the children, though "When the issue is finding lunch an< dinner, school loses its importance in the daily life", the journalist added.
 said the resettlement program would disturb the normal life of the refugees and create problems for the education of their children.
     The two leaders jointly warned that if the plan was implemented, a lot of refugees would prefer to leave ban.
       Connecting the resettlement plan with the issue of law and order annoys the refugees who have escaped the tyranny of communism. Mujahideen leaders have said that they are in favor of strict measures against a few law breakers, but the two million refugees who have escaped their homes to protect their religion must not suffer because of a few wrong doers.
       Afghan refugees started to enter Iran when the Iran-Iraq war had just begun. Afghans provided a good source of cheap labor. Most of the Afghan refugees live in the cities and supported themselves by working in a variety of different fields including in building construction, in the brick kilns and in factories.
       In the past there were a few refugee camps in ban but Afghans did not like to live there because of movement restrictions.
     The result of moving the refugees into camps will make them dependent on charity which is not a good way of living.
     Abdullah Noori, the interior minister of the Islamic Republic in a meeting with the Mujahideen leaders based in Iran said that those who misused the hospitality of the banian government and indulged in illegal activities would be dealt with strictly. In the same meeting he reiterated the support of his government for the Afghan cause.
I—^
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
It's the same donkey, but with a new saddle.
Meaning: Clothes do no make a man.
Usage: Said of someone who has recently gained a high position unworthily.

Reading Scripture in front of a donkey.
Meaning: Casing your pearls before swine.
      ^ a-s L; b '•j* J          o
Without a green switch the ox and the donkey won't obey.
Meaning: "Spare the rod and spoil the child".
Narrated Malik
 "S'"
  " Who believes in Allah and the Last Day should talk about what is good or keep quiet.
    (ie.
  and sh                 uttering.)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
  *


w s
                     P-OBo* 264, F^bawar- Pakistan Tel: (8521) 41381
Defeated in Eastern Europe, Stalin fights his last battle of honor in Afghanistan
    The new developments in Eastern Europe are a major victory for its people who have struggled for freedom and democracy.
    The collapse of the Berlin Wall, formation of the Solidarity government in Poland, the end of the Communist Party monopoly in East Germany, Bulgarian and Hungary and the fall Romanian dictator, Nicolae Ceausescu, are; positive changes that the people of the world admire and support
    Eastern Europe came under the communist rule after the World War II. The Soviet Union played a key role establishing and setting up communist systems of government in these countries. Pro-democracy and nationalist movements were crushed by the Warsaw Pact armies under the leadership of Moscow.
    Changes in Eastern Europe started after the changes in Moscow but has already surpassed them. These changes have given hope to the people of the world that the black days of Stalinist types of dictatorships have come to an end.
    Since the changes in the Soviet Union are slow and the Soviet leadership still insist on the monopoly of Communist party's leading role in running the government, one cannot be very optimistic about the future.
    Moreover, the Soviet behavior outside Eastern Europe follows old patterns. That country supports a number of dictators in different parts of the world by giving them moral and material support. Soviet involvement in Afghanistan is a good example of pursuance of the old policies.
    The world community welcomed the Soviet withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan. But it was surprised by the degree of Soviets' commitment in support of the Kabul regime which was brought to power by the Red Army when it invaded Afghanistan in 1979.
    The Soviet Union is giving up to $ 400 million to the regime in the forms of military and economic assistance. It has given new sophisticated weapons to the regime which were nqt used by the Red Army during their ten years of their occupation.
    This way the Soviet Union prevents the people of Afghanistan from choosing their destiny for the sake of which one million people have died.
    Soviet leaders raise anti Stalin slogans and put the responsibility of the invasion of Afghanistan on Brezhnev and a small group of his friends, but in action they support the Kabul regime which is the product an 'illegal invasion'.
    A quick look at history of the People Democratic Party of Afghanistan shows that this party has been a tool of the Soviets and is responsible for numerous crimes against the people of Afghanistan.
    This party has been involved in the killing of more than one million Afghans and driving five million more out of the country along with the Soviet invaders.
    Defending such a regime against its own people and supporting freedom and democracy in Eastern Europe is clear contradiction between Soviet leaders words and deeds.
    Soviet policy towards Afghans should be as test case for the sincerity of that country for peace and leaving nations to decide their future. Gorbachev poses as a peace maker in Europe but fans the fire of the war in Afghanistan by giving weapons the Kabul puppet regime.
    In the same way that public opinion had an effect the Soviets' decision to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan, it can force the Soviets to allow Afghans to determine their future. If Stalinist rule cannot stand against the popular movements in Eastern Europe it will never succeed in Afghanistan, the land of free people who passed a big test during ten long years of Soviet invasion.
                                            Dr. Sakharov passes away
    The leading Soviet human rights activist and Nobel prize winner. Dr. Andrie Sakharov, died in Moscow at the age of 68 on December 14. Dr. Sakharov who as a scientist participated in developing the hydrogen bomb for the Soviet Union in 1950, started to criticize the Soviet policies at home and abroad in 1968.
    During the 1970s, Sakharov was closely watched by the Soviet KGB for taking an increasingly active role in speaking out about the injustices of the Soviet Union's domestic and international polices. In 1980, Sakharov's freedom of movement was confined to his home city of Gorky because of his out-spoken criticism of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
    When he was elected a member of the Soviet parliament, he used this forum to raise his voice against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
    Like the rest of the free world, the people of Afghanistan were saddened by Dr. Sakharov's death. He defended the Afghans cause from within the Soviet empire knowing that criticism would result in personal exile and depravation of freedom.
    Dr. Sakharov will be remembered by the people of Afghanistan for his corageous efforts in speaking out about abuses of human rights and the plight of millions of people who have suffered as a result of the expansionist policies adopted by the Soviet government.
   Two regime generals killed
   General Shamsuddin was buried with a full military ceremony in Kabul on November 25, the regime radio reported.
   He was killed in combat against Mujahideen forces on the Kandahar front
   AIG official news agency, MIDIA, has also reported the killing of another regime general in the Jalalabad front. General Ghulam Haider was killed when the Mujahideen attacked his the army headquarters in Jalalabad on November 4. .
   Zarb-i-Momen
   A high ranking delegation of the inter im government headed by Professor Sayyat witnessed the military exercises of the Pakistani army, called Zarb-e-Momen. The delegation visited the field headquarters of the army where they were briefed about the exercises.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Mawlawi Abdur Razaq of Pushal
     Maulawi Abdul Razaq, the oldest commander of the Mujahideen was born 83 years ago in the village of Kolangar in Logar Province.
     He presently lives in the village of Pushal in Western Noons tan. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq came from a poor family. His father, Naseeruddin converted to Islam during the reign of King Amir Abdurrahman Khan (1894-1896).
     Abdul Razak's family was fenced into exile by the reigning King. This forced his father and brother to seek work in Logar far from their beloved mountains. Mean while Abdul Razak completed his primary school education in Kolangar district but was unable to go on to further education due to the lack of money. "His family was poor and his life was very hard. They did not ha\^e any source of income," said his representative in Peshawar, Mohammad Yaqoob Pushali. His father asked a Mullah in Kolangar to accept Mawlawi Abdur Razaq to work for him and in the mean time learn from him.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lived under the guidance of the Mullah for four years, during which time he learnt the basics of Islam. After that he went to Kabul and stayed with another famous Maulawi to further his Islamic knowledge. At the age of 39, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq returned to his home town of Pushal where he established a madra-sa (Islamic school), built a mosque, and assumed the role of an educator and village leader. He develop a very close affinity with the people of Pushal
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq became a symbol of honesty and kindness. Every body in the Western part of Nooristan respected and obeyed him. His reputation as an Islamic scholar spread through out Nooristan, resulting in many students from neighboring areas wishing to study .under him.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lives a pious lifestyle in his native village . He displays great patience and humility when dealing with the never ending flood of daily problems and requests that the local people have. No matter what the problem may be, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq endeavors to make a per sonal effort to find a settlement which is amicable to all parties.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq achieved significant fame for his assertive response to the threat posed by the Ahl-i-Hadeeth sect otherwise known. as Panjpeer or Wahabi followers who
 came to Eastern Nooristan from Pakistan' seeking to convert people to their interpretation of Islam. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq initially negotiated with the Ahl-i-Hadeeth leaders and after failing to reach an acceptable agreement, took legal recourse through the courts in Kabul. The court verdict justified Mawlawi Abdur Razaq's desire of banning the Ahl-i-Hadeeth leaders from preaching their religious doctrine in Nooristan. Even though Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was not able to stop the spread of the Ahl-i-Hadeeth school of thought in other parts ofNooristan, he succeeded in stopping its spread in Western Nooristan.
     In 1978, when the communist regime took power in Kabul, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was one of the first Mullahs who declared Jehad against the regime.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq personally participated in the first operation against the Nooristan district, in Laghman. He assumed the role of a military commander and led his people in a summer offensive in 1978, resulting in the capture the regime's district and the seizure of an impressive array of arms and ammunition.
     During the first military encounters in the Panjshir, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq took his men to help Commander Masood and was warmly welcomed by the local people. Mawlawi Abdur Razaq lost nine men in the initial military encounters in the Pajshir.
       The duration of the war has brought many trials upon Mawlawi Abdur Razaq, but none more potentially threatening than the "Col. Serwar Affair". Serwar was an ageist qf the Communist government who was a diplomat in the Afghan embassy in India. He pretended to be sympathic to the cause of the Mujahideen and as k consequence "defected” from his post at the embassy and sought political assy-
 lum in Pakistan which was given. After a short period of time he returned and settled in his native village of Pushal in Nooristan. There, he propagated to the local people that the Mujahideen was ignoring them, but that he could help them by giving them an ample supply of arms, food and medicines through secret contacts of his in hierarchy of the Communist Army. Initially, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq was impressed by the credentials of Sowar and gave him his confidence which promoted Sowar in the eyes of the local people.
     Sowar kept his promise of delivering supplies to the local people. However, they were flown in helicopters of the Communist government. It started to become evident to an increasing number of people, that Serwar's real intentions was to establish a Communist army stronghold in the territory of Nooristan. Ovo a period of two years Sowar continued supplying the local people, until Mawlawi Abdur Razaq awoke to his serious mistake of misjudging the character and intentions of Serwar. He promptly denounced Serwar, thereby destroying the agent's reputation. Serwar managed to escape to Kabul, but Mawlawi Abdur Razaq through the realization of his initial mistakes had nullified a potentially disastrous military situation where the Communist Army would have had a Stronghold in the Middle of Mujahideen controlled territory.
     Mawlawi Abdur Razaq or as he is known by his people (Maulawi Sahib), was 72 years when he started the fighting against the communists. In the lat er stages when Mujahideen became stronger and Jehad spread all over Afghanistan, Mawlawi Abdur Razaq has stayed mostly in his own village. His primary role now is to provide security for Mujahideen convoys passing through areas controlled by his men.
  Jami'at, Hezb Island to solve their : differences through negotiations
  - Jami*at and Uexb Islam* (Hikmatyar) Mvt agreed to solve their differences by settings? a judicial committee and refrain &om propaganda
   A document was »ped %
Arab scholars who acteda&intedfe^ by the late Dr. Afcdufiah Ezam* Dr.
                                                                                                  com
 lYofesso? Ki&faani said that die settlement wifi not have any effect on die Tate
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
   AFGHANews now enters sixth year of its service to Jehad
 Bv: Mohammad Es’haq
     In the spring of 1984,1 and colleague of mine, Masood Khalili, felt there was a need for an organized publication to keep people interested and currently informed about the Afghan cause. We boldly decided to initiated such a project and named our publication Afghanews, with the objective of publishing battlefield news in the English language.
     Previously, Jami'at Islami gave the news of the political activities of the Mujahideen to local news agencies via periodical press releases.
     Jami'at had been publishing a monthly journal titled Mirror of Jehad. However, the Alliance formed a rule that no party papers could any longer be published, resulting in the closure of Mirror of Jehad. A gap was created that could not be filled with press releases only. Therefore we decided to design a newspaper. This publication had many weaknesses associated with its presentation, language, and editing format but because the cause was very popular people over looked the weaknesses.
     Initially we printed Afghanews with a duplicating machine of the Military Committee of Jami'at, located outside Peshawar. This arrangement had many problems including 1) The publishing locality was a considerable distance from our office, 2) The place of printing was noisy, and 3) Sometimes the operator of the machine was not very cooperative.
     In order to overcome these problems we needed to find a duplication machine for our own usage. However, we faced another problem, namely the lack of money. An Afghan friend in France sent us a broken duplicating machine to be repaired in Peshawar, but unfortunately the missing parts were not available. We then proceeded to talk to support organizations in Peshawar, but they could not help us because our journal was affiliated with a political organization, which was contrary to their laws.
     The head of the United States Information Service (USIS) center in Peshawar, John Dixon, was kind enough to give us a second hand duplicating machine but this machine was also not functioning properly.
     Finally, with financial help of Jami'at and Ander Figar of the Swedish Committee, we were able to buy a Gestetner duplicating machine and a Scanner. These two machines significantly improved the quality of the
 Afghanews, resulting in us printing many additional copies.
     Initially we sent the paper to one hundred addresses originally taken from the banned Mirror of Jehad magazine.
     In a short span of time our mailing list reached 700. Economic considerations and problems associated with printing slowed down further expansion of our mailing list. Problems were also faced with maintaining up to date mailing lists.
     Due to the limited number of published copies and the high postage costs of Afghanews, the paper was sent only to selected groups and individuals who had expressed a special interest in the developments in Afghanistan. These sources included support groups, relief organizations, libraries, internationally acclaimed news papers and magazines, foreign diplomats based in Pakistan, U.N. Missions of various countries, and research centers around the world.
     At the time of writing, the paper is mailed to 2000 addresses in Europe, America, Africa, Australia, Middle East, Far East and Pakistan.
     As we expanded the circulation of Afghanews, it became evident that to ensure the continued growth of the paper, we needed to adopt the technology of computers. In order to research the benefits of computer usage, I visited the office of Freedom Medicine, an American private relief organization in Peshawar. They were using Macintosh computers to organize their affairs. I stayed there observing them using then-computers and Bob Brunner, an employee, kindly demonstrated some simple procedures. I concluded that the Macintosh computer would greatly enhance the production of Afghanews.
     Once the finance had been found for meeting the purchasing costs, I approached Gay-La-Cler, the then director of Freedom Medicine and she promised to help me in buying a Macintosh computer.
     After a few months the computer arrived and I immediately started using it to produce Afghanews. We were the first group among the resistance to use a computer to publish a newspaper.
     Initially using a computer in the publication was confusing and I had to rely upon referring to the Users Manual. Later I was tutored by Taimur Friedman, a young American who was bom in Kabul and was now helping
 Afghans through his employment with Freedom Medicine. He knew a lot about computers and was very generous with his time and friendly in his dealings. The first computerized issue of Afghanews was published on 15th of July, 1986.
     In order to further improve the quality of our paper it was felt that members of our production staff needed professional training. One staff member (Abdul Wali), participated in a six-month training program in London under a scholarship by the British Council. Abdul's English improved significantly, but unfortunately he did not have many opportunities to become fully acquainted with using computers.
     In March, 1988,1 went to London and started a two-week theoretical training course in news writing at the Thomson Foundation in London. The Thomson Foundation is an organization involved in training journalists and broadcasters from third world countries.
  I was the second Afghan to study at the foundation. The two-week training course proved a valuable source of learning.
     After two weeks I joined the staff of the weekly paper titled Aylesbury Plus published in Aylesbury, who were using Macintosh computers. I became well acquainted with production and designing techniques. Also, I gained an insight into the culture and mentality of the local people, who I found to be very kind and cooperative.
     After returning from London I started using the computer program, Desk Top Publishing. The results of my overseas training and the new computer program further improved the quality of the paper.
     In order to publish material with quality news print, I needed a Laser Printer which was very expensive. During a trip to the US, a Japanese citizen . who was interested in the Afghanistan cause kindly donated the money for purchasing the Laser Printer. In January,1988, Afghanews was printed for the first, time with quality news print. This consequently reduced our mailing and printing costs.
     As a historical record of Afghanews, we have bounded the issues for each year, and given them to important libraries, research centers and various individuals interested in Afghanistan.
     The two main problems conffont-
              Turn to page (8)      ~
-------------     AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page &
Arifa tells horror stories of regime’s torture of female political prisoners
                                           By: Umar Jessurun
    Peshawar, 21st of December, 1989.
    Miss Arifa was invited to address a gathering of journalists, foreign aid workers and female school students in a se-ected location in Peshawar to describe her experiences of being jailed by the Kabul regime.
                                                  She spoke with clarity and emotion through an interpreter.
  This was the first time that a female from the ranks of the "Muslim Sisters Organization of Afghanistan" (MSOA) affiliated to Jami'at Islami has held a press conference,: which indicates the growing' and often hidden role that Mujahideen women are playing in the present war.
    Miss Arifa spent two years in the jails known by the names of Dentention Center Khad 9 and Puli Charkhi. She was arrested by the secret police of the Kabul regime as a teenager because of her political associations with the activist group MSOA. During her time in prison she suffered a wide variety of tortures and violations while living under conditions of extreme hardship. Miss Arifa's personal story of survival is symbolic of the extraordinary courage displayed by so many Mujahideen women in their continuing struggle for freedom.
      As a youth. Miss Arifa was a successful student at her school in Kabul. However, she became politically aware of the religious, political and social restrictions that the incumbent Communist government was endeavouring, to enforce upon the people of Afghanistan. One day while she was at school, soldiers of the regime marched into the school and made selected girls dance in front of them and their school peers. This act of humiliation was the catalyst for Miss Arifa to join the MSOA as a recourse to protect and fight for her religious rights. She quickly became very active in the organization and over a short period of time recruited 41 men and women to join political organizations campaigning against the communist government. Her work in recruiting and distributing material led to her arrest and subsequent two year imprisonment.
      Miss Arifa was first taken to the infamous detention center known as Khad 9. She was placed in a cell compound containing both men and worn
 en. Later she was removed to Puli Charkhi, where 80 female political prisoners were confined to quarters resembling a house.
    During her confinement at both prisons the living conditions were appalling. The food was beyond normal human consumption but hunger forced the inmates to consume it Miss Arafa mentioned that "cock roaches were often found swimming in the soup, but because we were so hungry we had to eat it”. During the summer the prison was incredibly hot while during winter the interior of the prison quarters was extremely cold. Inmates were allowed just one brief family visit every fifteen days. Parcels and gifts sent to the inmates were invariably tampered with or just never reached their intended destination. All religious rights were taken away resulting in the inmates having to adopt non Islamic attire and not being able to pray at the scheduled five times each day.
       One of the most disturbing accounts of Miss Arifa's imprisonment was to learn of the wide spread use of torture and other means of humiliation that were used against female inmates. Miss Arafa stated that "all female prisoners were tortured during their captivity". Types of torture used against Miss Arifa by male guards included electric shocks all over her body, cigarette bums to her breasts, buttocks and arms, regular beatings with sticks, and a barrage of verbal and emotion interrogation. Due to the torture that Miss Arifa received while in prison, she has lost total hearing in one ear and has permanent scarring from the electric shocks and cigarette bums. Miss Arifa
 also stated that sexual abuse of the female inmates was wide spread.
     On one occasion after Miss Arifa had received electrical shock torture, she suffered acute bleeding in the throat region. Her captives refused her any right to visit a hospital, and she had to wait until a doctor could be brought to the prison to issue medical attention. Prisoners under no circumstances are permitted the right to go to hospital to recieve medical attention. Due to the unbearable living circumstances of the female prisoners, Miss Arifa stated that many inmates have resorted to suicide as the only option to end their plight. This is usually achieved by swallowing needles or cutting ones veins.
     Miss Arifa's prison ordeal ended when her captives released her only once she had sworn an oath in front of her parents never to participate in any political or religious activity which is contrary to the regime's ideology.
     Two months after Miss Arifa's release from prison, she and her family escaped to the safe haven of Peshawar in Northern Pakistan to join some three million other Afghan refugees living in this region.
     Miss Arifa says that there are some 600 female political prisoners kept in secret jails in various locations around territories controlled by the Kabul regime. Each of these prisoners is no doubt living in circumstances where torture and humiliation is a daily feature of their lives, where food is not suitable for human consumption, where religious and individual rights are denied, and where medical services are non existent. These brave women have until Miss Arifa's disclosures, been forgotten victims of the war in Afghanistan.
                                  Please help us publish AFGHANews!
   Dear reader,
   We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
   If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number
   JEHAD
   Account No. 735-37
   Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
   (Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan
                                  AFGHANews Vol 6, No 1, January 1,1990, page ©
 UN proposes a united forum to negotiate peace in Afghanistan
     The UN General Secretary, Perez De Cuellar, who has a mandate to work for bringing peace to Afghanistan has proposed the formation of a body in which all the opposition groups of the regime should be represented.
     The UN General Secretary has proposed the formation of an opposition delegation with a mandate to talk to him about ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan.
     He has proposed that a 10 member delegation from the Interim Government, Iran based Mujahideen, pro-Zahir Shah people and commanders from inside should be formed.
     This body should have a mandate to negotiate about seeking ways of finding a political solution to Afghanistan's problems.
     This idea was discussed with a Mujahideen delegation which had gone to New York under leadership of Farooq Azam.
     The Mujahideen have refused to deal with the Kabul regime. They only will accept transfer of power. The regime on the other hand is in favor of
 sharing power with the resistance.
      The Soviet Union has tabled a three item plan for the political solution for Afghanistan which includes: cease fire and moratorium of arms to both sides of the conflict, intra- Afghan dialogue, and an international conference under the auspices of the UN.
      Pakistan's Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, has said to the Japanese newspaper, Mainich Daily, that for the interest of peace and stability the Soviets should persuade Najib to step down. She said Pakistan could not accept any person rejected by its people.
      General Sagalov, who has served as the head of Soviet military advisors in Afghanistan from 1981 to 1981, has supported the continuation of Soviet military and economic aid to the Kabul regime.
      He said despite economic difficulties at home, we should support our friends. He said the Afghan war has resulted in Soviet 15,000 dead, 50,000 wounded and all those who participated were psycologically affected.
            'SALAM EXPRESS' leaves to Afghanistan via USSR
                                       AFGHANews
   | From page (6)       |
   ing Afghanews is the lack of funding and availability of skilled staff: Our present efforts to overcome these problems have been less than successful. We have been forced to ask our readers to contribute donations to maintain the publication process, though we still issue our paper free to our readers.
   The policy of the paper is to publish articles which adopt an objective stance on all issues, even if it means criticizing members of our own political movement We are very thankful to Professor Rabbani, the Jami'at leader who has been kind enough to have provided the funding for the paper without imposing restrictions on what can be written. Also, we are grateful that the Pakistani authorities have left us undisturbed despite some of the articles being in contradiction to their policy. Until now, we have received favorable feedback from our readers who respect our policy of objective writing.
   We hope to one day publish Afghan news in a liberated Afghanistan where freedom of the press will be a established principle of the governing bodies. Also, we are researching the possibilities of publishing Afghanews in the Afghan national languages of Dari and Pushtu,
    The publication of Afghanews has served Afghanistan during the struggle of liberation in being a voice of the people, and allowing English speakers an insight of the terrible realities of the war. Hopefully, the paper will soon be able to report on the progress of reconstructing Afghanistan into into a stable country.
                                         US envoy meets Jami'at leader
    On the December 11, Peter Tomsen, the United States Special Envoy to the Resistance held discussions with Professor Rabbani, where the leader of Jami'at stated that he believed that any holding of elections would prove difficult to organize. Professor Rabbani stressed that the he would support the formation of a representative Shoora.
    During' the discussions, Mr. Tomsen reiterated that the government of the United States wanted the Interim government to broaden its base.
    Stephen Solarz, a Democratic Congressman from the United States, recently visited officials of the Interim Government The held discussions centered upon ways of seeking peace in Afghanistan.
     The train "Salam Exress", carrying relief good to Afghanistan left Rome on December 11.
     It will go to the Afghan border via the Soviet Union. This is the second train which has been sent in the last few months which takes relief goods to regime controlled areas. UN sources claim that the goods are "for all Afghan" and will be distributed by the UN men.
     It appears the UN did not negotiated with the interim government or Mujahideen commanders about sending food and its distribution in the areas controlled by them.
     The political and military situation will not permit distribution of the relief goods coming from the regime territory to the liberated areas. Therefore, all UN goods will be distributed to the people under the regime's control.
     The UN relief goods are used by the Kabul regime as a sign of its endorsement by the world community.
     While the world's attention is drawn by the UN towards the plight of people in the occupied cities in Afghanistan, Pakistani authorities have complained about the decrease of aid to the refugees.
    "Is it not a deliberate design by the UN to lure refugees to war tom Afghanistan by pouring relief goods in the cities and making life difficult for the refugees in the camps?"
    If that is the case, it will be another mistake. Refugees will only return when the communist regime is replaced by a representative government.
                                             Buzkashi played in Peshawar
    Buzkashi games were played in Khurasan refugee camp at the outskirt of Peshawar on December 7 and 8.
    Buzkashi is a traditional game played in the Northern of Afghanistan. It is a rough game in which two teams of horsemen contest to snatch a headless calf and circle it round their heads before dropping it in a nominated target goal area.
     In the old days there was no limitation to the number of horsemen participating on each side, but the Olympic Committee of the Afghan government has introduced rules restricting ten riders for each competing team.
Vol 6, No 2                                       January 15, 1990
Mujahideen and refugees condemn Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan
- ----------- --------
North facing famine threat
     The Mujahideen commanders in the North and West of Afghanistan have reported food shortages in their areas and have appealed for international support.
     In a letter to his representative in Peshawar, Commander Aryanpoor has said that the people of Badakhshan are facing shortages of food and the prices of food commodities have reached beyond the buying ability of die common man.
     Aryanpoor said that due to the lack of seasonal rainfall and harsh coldness, the harvest of irrigated and "Lalm” farms (farms located in hilly areas which are naturally irrigated) has been very poor. He added that the late snow fall of last year destroyed the fruit harvest in the area which compounded the severe food shortage. This has led to major increases in food prices. Aryanpoor said the situation has caused worry among the people making them concerned about their future.
     He has asked the international relief organizations to help the needy people in his area.
     In a similar letter. Commander Ismael Khan, has reported food shortages and high prices of essential commodities in Herat. Ismael Khan expressed concern about the exploitation of the situation by the Communist regime of Kabul. The Kabul regime has intensified the sending of arms, money and food to buy the support of the people in Herat and weaken the resistance.
     He has reported that the regime has recently given 80 artillery pieces, 100 armored cars, 300 14.6 mm machine guns and more than 10,000 light weapons to the militias in the province, in addition to great amounts of food and large sums of money.
     Ismael Khan also complained about shortages of warm clothes and has reported fresh displacement of people from Pushtoon Zarghoon district The displaced people are in need of immediate assistance.
     Huge meetings were held through out Pakistan and some world cities to remember the tenth anniversary of the Russian invasion into Afghanistan which dates from the 27 December 1979 and lasted until the 15 February, 1989. A common theme in each meeting was universal condemnation of the illegality of the Russian invasion and the terrible sufferings being endured by the Afghani people.
     Leaders of the AIG held meeting in the following refugee camps:
     1)     Naser Bagh Camp -speech by President Sebghatullah MujaddidL
     2)    Jalozai Camp -speech by Prime Minister Professor Sayyaf.
     3)      Haripur Camp -speech by Minister of Reconstruction Professor Rabbani.
     4)     Bajawor Camp -speech by Minister of Interior Mawalawi Khalis.
     5)      Sawabi Camp -speech by Minister of Defense Mawalawi Muhammadi.
     President Mujaddidi in his speech reiterated the importance of all Afghans to put aside their internal differences and rally behind the AIG so that an Islamic government can quickly be installed to govern Afghanistan.
     The AIG released a text outlining nine points to mark their policy direction. In summary these points are:
     1)       Russia must pay war reparations.
     2)     Jehad will continue until an Islamic government is installed.
     3)     Greater international pressure must be brought onto Russia to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
     4)     All governments should recognize the AIG.
     5) The People of Afghanistan are
     solely responsible for determining their own future
     6)     Present members of the communist regime will not be represented in any future Islamic government
     7)     A general amnesty is passed onto all innocent officers and officials of the Kabul regime if they give themselves up to the AIG.
     8)     International donations are urgently required.
     9)      Military actions by the Mujahideen need to be increased.
     A number of rallies and speeches independent of the AIG were also held at different localities to mark the anniversary. The most significant of these meetings was held at Hayatabad in Peshawar where Gulbuddin Hekmatyar the leader of Hezb-i-Islami spoke to a large gathering of refugees. During his speech he assailed both Russia and America, who he said were continuing to muddle in the internal affairs of Afghanistan.
     A group of women refugees held a rally in Rawalpindi close to Islamabad, the Capital of Pakistan.
     The Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mrs. Benazir Bhutto, paid rich tribute to the people of Afghanistan in a specially prepared statement to mark the anniversary. She stressed that Pakistan took "great pride in saluting the Afghani people for setting an example of Islamic valor and faith that will abide and inspire freedom loving peoples all over the world."
     In Afghanistan the anniversary was celebrated by the Mujahideen attacking different military targets in various parts of the country.
     The most significant attack involved a major bombardment of military installations in Kabul where Mujahideen forces fired fifty rockets. Other offensive actions were operations in Mazar and Khost
-  ——--------- AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page @
r  ■   ■  "   ;     "" ”   *
                    News
                From the battlefields
    Herat province
    On December 27, Jami’at Mujahideen attacked security posts around the city of Herat . They killed 94 militiamen and seven officers, and captured six soldiers. They also destroyed eight enemy post, two tanks, two vehicles and six heavy weapon. The Mujahideen seized 12 guns, Three Mujahideen were killed and seven were wounded.
    On December 26, the Mujahideen in Enjeel district repulsed an enemy attack. Tanks and planes supported the enemy troops. The enemy retreated after losing 85 people. Enemy retaliatory shelling of the villages killed three Mujahideen and wounded two.
    On December 23, Mujahideen fired rockets on the headquarters of Herat Army Corps, killing six soldiers. On the same date, the Mujahideen killed three militiamen when they attacked a militia post near the city. 1
    On December 19, one soldier and one officer wane killed and their jeep destroyed when Mujahideen attacked them with machine gun fire inside the city of Herat.
    In two different Mujahideen mortar attacks on Decemberl6 and 17 in -the city of Herat, two enemy officers were killed.
    On December 15, Jami'at Mujahideen killed 13 enemy soldiers by firing rockets on government posts close to the city of Herat They also fired ground-to-ground rockets on the headquarters of the regime secret police (WAD), killing four.
    On December 14, four soldiers were killed when the Mujahideen fired rockets on the headquarters of the Herat Army Corp.
    On December 11, one enemy tank
 was destroyed and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were killed or wounded near Roodkaz bridge, about three kilometers from Adraskan, when Mujahideen attacked their post
    On December 10, five enemy soldiers were killed when the vehicle carrying them hit a land mine planted by the Mujahideen in Khwaja Gulpush area.
    Balkh province
    Jami'at Mujahideen blocked the Mazar-Shiberghan highway for two days beginning December 30.
    They destroyed one tank, one armored car, two trucks and captured two soldiers. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
    As a result of retaliatory shelling of Mujahideen-controlled villages, 20 houses were destroyed.
    In Seyagird village near Mazar-i-Sharif, Jami'at Mujahideen on December 29 captured an enemy post and seized 13 guns and one 82mm mortar.
     Twenty one people have been killed and 7 injured by two SCUD missiles fired by the Communist regime of Dr. Najibullah in Keshm district, Badakhshan province.
     The Mujahideen think that the missiles were fired from Mazar-i-Sharif close to the Soviet border.
     One of the missiles hit a mosque school killing three students and a teacher.
     The teacher was Maulawi Abdur Rahim, a prominent Islamic scholar and the leader of the Ulama organization in Keshm.
     The second missile hit the residential quarters of the town killing 17 people and injuring seven. Several houses were also destroyed.
 Kandahar province
    The MIDIA office in Quetta reported that a bloody clash between Esmat Muslim's militias and the military police of the Kabuljegime inside the city of Kandahar had claimed many lives on both sides.
    In the past, a nufnber of such clashes have occurred between the two rival groups. Both groups used heavy machine guns and small arms.
    Esmat Muslim, a resident of Kandahar, was once a Mujahideen commander. Since joining die Kabul regime some years ago, he has been active against the Mujahideen in Kandahar and other places. He is a notorious gun-runner whose followers create problem for the people of Kabul; on one occasion they clashed with the security forces of the regime in Kabul, resulting in Esmat's being wounded. Esmat has had close links with the Soviets. He was treated in the Soviet Union for his injuries.
    Kabul province
    In the first week of January, an enemy truck was destroyed on the Paghman road. Communist forces shelled Paghman, killing three civilians and wounding two Mujahideen.
  Parwan province
    On December 23, communist artillery heavily shelled residential areas in Munara village in Jabulseraj. Fifteen civilians were killed and 11 were injured.
     This was the third time that Keshm has been hit by SCUD missiles. In the two previous cases nobody was killed or wounded.
     The Mujahideen from Keshm say that firing of SCUD missiles on Keshm started after Ahmad Shah Masood and the commanders from Badakhshan held a meeting in Keshm to discuss their future course of action against the enemy.
     Most of the important commanders of Badakhshan including Basir Khalid and Aryanpoor had participated in that meeting.
     Keshm which is located on Taloqan-Faizabad road was liberated by Commander Aryanpoor's Mujahideen after the Soviet troops left Afghanistan last February.
SCUDs kill 27 people in Keshm
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page ©
              Widened rift between Khalq, Parcham factions reported
    Prof. Mohammad Qasem Jamdar reveals that differences between Khalq and Parcham factions of PDPA has intensified after the arrest of 127 high ranking officers belonging to Khalq faction. This occurred after an alleged coupdgainst Najibullah.
    Prof. Jamdar and three other officers who belong to the Khalq faction have recently defected to the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan (NIFA) Mujahideen group.
    Prof. Jamdar was the director of Research in the Ministry of Higher Education of the regime and has a doctorate from the Moscow Energy Institute. He said following the arrest of Khalqi officers, tension between General Tani, the Defense Minister of regime, and Dr. Najibullah increased to such an extent that the Soviet Union sent a high-ranking delegation to Kabul to mediate between the two.
    This meeting was held in the Soviet embassy in Kabul. General Tani asked for the immediate release of Khalqi officers which was accepted. Other demands of General Tani included the appointment of military officers through the Ministry of Defense, bringing all the militia forces under the command of the ministry of defense and equal share in appointment of military and civilian officers for Khalq and Parcham factions. These demands were not accepted.
    Prof. Qasem said that some of those arrested were high-ranking officers. Dr. Najib appointed new men in their place.
    The Kabul regime earlier had reported the discovery of a plot against it. It accused Hezb (Hikmatyar) for the plot. When Professor Jamdar was asked about Hezb's involvement in the alleged coup, he said there was no evidence linking the Hezb to the coup.
    Prof. Qasem stated that 5 to 7,000 "Jawzjani militias" Have been assigned to defend Kabul. This force was created by Najib and operates under the command of KHAD. He confirmed reports of kidnapping and looting by these militias. He said they had kidnapped 13 women from Qalacha area and looted Koochi Market and Saray-i-Shahzada in the heart of the city.
    Abdul Malik Jamdar, son of Prof. Jamdar was an officer of the SCUD missiles launch sites, told the reporters that 20 Soviet advisors are helping to fire SCUD missiles, SCUD is a medium-range missile which carries a warhead of 2000 pounds.
    Malik said the Soviet advisors work under Major Kolia and are lodged in the Soviet embassy in Kabul. The Soviet advisors wear Afghan uniforms and travel in cars with Afghan licence plates.
    Captain Malik is a graduate of Police Academy in Leningrad, disclosed that the Soviets have given 13 SCUD launchers to the regime. Five of these are in Mazar-i-Sharif and eight in Kabul. Four launchers in Kabul are used by KHAD and four others by the Defense Ministry of the regime.
                             Regime's crumbling economy
     The Kabul regime is facing an economic crisis which has made life for the ordinary people difficult
     AFP reports from Kabul that the exchange rate of foreign currencies are rocketing every day.
     Each American dollar is exchanged in the free market of Kabul 525 Afghani, while the official rate is 125 Afs. Compared to last years' rate it shows a 100% increase.
     Regime Prime Minister, Sultan Ali Keshtmand, has blamed the Mujahideen and their allies for the bad economic situation. He has said that his government is a target of economic sabotage of the Mujahideen and their supporters.
     Statistics provided by the regime shows a sharp fall in exports during the current year. Kabul imported $373 million of goods in the first six months of 1989, while its exports during the same period reached only $104.9 million.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
Don't stop a donkey that is not yours.
Meaning: Mind your own business.
cajSli <il

J «     U
There are twenty-five uncaught sparrows for one penny.
Meaning: A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, or wishes area dime a dozen.
   Ij            jli
A Porcupine speaking to its baby says, ” O my child of velvet."
Meaning: One's own child is especially dear to him.
      <$$** 42 M Community is not created by force.
•V.ViVlWSJ.SV
  " The riding one should greet th# persons,”
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page Q
w
gw® %

AFGii apn ews
 PjCXBqx 264* Peshawar- Pakistan Tel: (0521) 41381

Editorial
  Communists to be disqualified from Afghan politics in future
    On the 25th anniversary of the formation of the communist ruling in Afghanistan, Dr. Najibullah has introduced changes in the ruling party's future program and name.
    The leader of the Kabul regime has also proposed formation of a front of leftist groups to run the country. Najibullah is trying to prepare his party to run Afghanistan with the help of Other front organizations it has created under different names.
    But the majority of Afghan people have rejected the rule of the communists, and ten years of war hve permanently disqualified the PDPA from playing any role in the future of Afghanistan.
    The party came into existence because of deal between the Afghan royal fami-y and the Soviet Union. It seized power with help of the Soviets, by exploiting divisions between different individuals in the Royal family.
    After assuming power, it unleashed unbridled violence against its potential enemies. When faced with popular resistance, the PDPA joined hands with the Soviet Union. For ten long years they killed more than a million Afghans, forced more than five million out of the country and destroyed 75% of the cities and towns.
    With such a history how could PDPA dare to look Afghans in the eye and suggest running a peaceful Afghanistan, with the help of the country's other communist factions?
    It is strange that Najib bases his argument for changes in his party program on the developments in Eastern Europe. The main theme of the uprising in Eastern Europe has been dismissal of the old dictators.
    If the people in Eastern Europe kill some dictators, sack others and call for the end of communist party rule, how can the people of Afghanistan accept Najib as their future leader?
    Ten years of war must have sent a clear message that Afghans will not reconcile with the Godless communists.
    The communists in Afghanistan can only live in the shadow of Soviet supplied SCUD missiles and MiG-29 fighters. But Soviet aid has limits. The Soviets will soon tire of supporting Najib because they have many problems at home. Najib can not count on $400 million of Soviet aid per month for long: the Soviet Union cannot afford this for economic reasons.
    PDPA has no role in the future of Afghanistan. Changes of name and program cannot deceive us. More than 100,000 guns of the Mujahideen will make sure that the dream of a communist government in Afghanistan will not come true.
                          Abdullah Ezam's invterview
From Page (6)
                            Afghans resent France's decision to re-open its embassy in Kabul
   The Afghan Mujahideen disapprove the French Government’s decision to reopen its embassy in Kabul. The reasons given for the re-opening the embassy by the French authorities ard not convincing.
   The Kabul regime has always argued that its diplomatic relations with a large number of non-communist countries is an indication of their indirect recognition of the Soviet-backed regime of Dr. Najibullah.
   Most of those countries opposed the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, considered the Kabul regime illegal and supported the struggle of Afghans against it But they maintained diplomatic ties with the Kabul regime, displaying an obvious contradiction in their policies.
Turn to page (7 )
    dered. Masood said they will be tried in an Islamic court. x
    I was the first person to hear about the Farkhar incident I was sitting with Hikmatyar under a tree inside Afghanistan discussing the possibilities of him holding a meeting with Masood, so that if there were differences between the two they should be solved.
    When Hikmatyar heard die news of the tragedy his face turned black with anger and said that he was ready to hand over Sayed Jamal and his brother who were Hezb members to a Sharia court
    I asked Ahmad Shah Masood to leave Sayed Jamal alone at this critical moment and send Jus man to capture a city, but he said he was not able to do so because a lot of people were demanding that the culprits be captured and those killed were not members of his family or his close relatives. He said that the issue became more complicated when 40 Ulamas issued an Islamic verdict in favour of fighting against Jamal. Also they added that if Masood refused to fight the culprits he is not worthy of obedience. Therefore, their surrender and trial was the only way to calm down the grieved relatives of those were killed.
    A committee was designated (by the Interim Government) to investigate the case and I was a member of that committee. The problem of Takhar ended, but the BBC and VOA called it a massacre in which 300 people were killed. The number of those killed was less than 15 people.
    This was the story of Takhar which the western media talked about for 78 days with reports full of strange lies.
                              Jami'at condoles with People of Pakistan
    The leadership and members of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan express their profound sympathy and condolence with the government and people of Pakistan and the families of those 300 people who lost their lives in a sad rail road accident near Sukkar on January 4. May Almighty Allah rest their souls with peace.
    We also pray for the fast recovery of those brothers and sisters who were injured in the tragic accident
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15, 1990, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Martyr Safiullah Afzali
    In 1954, Safiullah Afzali was born into a re-igious family residing in Qaysan Village located in the District of Ghooryan in the Province of Herat. Afzali spent his childhood in his native village and attended the local primary school.
    Later he attended high school in Herat and after his graduation went to study at Kabul University. In 1971, he joined the Islamic Movement. His brother Hafizullah Afzali participated in the 1975 Panjshir Uprising and was captured and later killed. This consolidated Safiullah's dedication against the regime.
    After the Communist Coup of 1978, he was arrested and placed in prison for a short period of time. Following Afzali's release from prison, he travelled back to Herat to join the uprising against the Taraki regime. Initially the people met success in the uprising by capturing the Zalmay Koot Division of the regime forces, but this led to heavy reinforcement forces being called to Herat which led to destructive bombing of the city by the regime's air force. As a result of the fighting about 20,000 people died. Afzali was active in the fighting against the regime forces.
                                                                                         After the defeat, the Mujahideen maintained their morale and some
 members organized themselves into guerilla units. Afzali became a leader of such a group whose membership mainly included other young educated men. He appealed to the people around him as a charismatic young leader. His group took the name "The Martyred Hafizullah Afzali Front" and was mainly active around the city of Herat and some nearby districts.
     Afzali worked closely with other Jami'at commanders who had appointed Ismael Khan as their Commander in Chief. There were some differences between Ismael Khan and Afzali regarding how to fight the enemy, but these were kept to a level which did not prevent them from cooperating with each other.
  Some people tried to exploit these small differences for their own political gains. Once, Afzali in conversing with a friend stated that there were no real problems between him and Commander Ismael Khan.
     On the seventh of July, 1987, Afzali was ambushed and murdered by KHAD agents while travelling on the highway between Tayebat and Turbat in Iran.
     Many thousands of people attended his funeral. Afzali became the fourth son of his surviving father of 95 years to have been killed by the regime forces. His brother Captain Azizullah was later appointed as the commander of his Mujahideen group. His widow is active amongst Jami'at women in Iran by participating in seminars and holding public meetings.
            Teacher kills his 12-year old Afghan refugee student
    A 12-year old Afghan refugee student was killed in Iran on November 29 when his teacher physically punished him for laughing in the classroom.
    Wahidullah Afzali, a student of Zhandah Peel Primary School of Turbat in Khurasan province, was kicked by his teacher and he died after reaching hospital in Mashed.
    The teacher, Husaini, who is an Iranian has beat arrested by police and a case has been registered against him.
    An official of the education authority in Turbat told the Daily Khurasan that the law prohibits physical punishment in Iranian schools and if it is proved that the teacher has kicked the
 student he will punished by law.
     Wahidullah Afzali is die nephew of Safiullah Afzali a famous commander from Herat who was assassinated in Iran two years ago.
     Iranian papers had reported the arrest of those involved in the assassination. They had carried out the attack with direction from KHAD, the Kabul regime secret police. Afzali's family wanted the suspects to be tried in a revolutionary court because of the political nature of the murder, but the Iranian authorities wanted them to be tried in ordinary court
     Wahidulla's father believes that there is a political motive behind the tragic incident in which his son lost his life.
     A round table discussion was held on the reconstruction of Afghanistan on December 12,1989, at the Institute of Strategic Studies in Islamabad.
     Prof. Rabbani outlined a three phased reconstruction policy of the AIG i.e, the assistance for the returning refugees, the reconstruction of the country and the development of Afghanistan.
                                                                      ****
     A Sharia court in the North has sentenced 4 people to death after finding them guilty of killing prominent Jami'at commanders in Farkhar last summer. The court which was composed of 31 Ulamas made the decision after thorough deliberation which lasted several weeks.
                                                                     ****
     A delegation of the AIG has gone
                                                      to Iran to discuss therefugee situation
                                                      in Iran and other issues related to
                                                      Jehad with Iranian officials in Tehran.
                                                      The delegation is headed by Farooq
                                                      Azam, the AIG minister of education. ***
     After seven decades the people in
                                                      Moscow listened to the sound of
                                                      church bells in the Soviet capital at
 the start of the new year.
                                                                      ***
     The Deputy Minister of
                                                      Agriculture of the AIG has said it
                                                      will distribute 7,000 tons of fertilizer
                                                      to the farmers in deliberated areas to
 boost agricultural products.
                                                                      ***
     Karim Khalili, the spokesman of
                                                      the 9-party alliance based in Tehran
                                                      has held a meeting with Prof.
 Mujaddidi in Peshawar.
                                                                      ***
     Prof. Mujaddidi has recently received Mr. Benon Sevan, the UN Secretary General's special representative for issues affecting Afghanistan,
 in his office in Peshawar.
                                                                      ***
     Libya has for the first time condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The condemnation came after the Soviet Union Parliament passed a resolution in its latest session condemning the 1979 invasion of Afghanistan.
                                                                      ***
     The Pakistan Foreign Ministry has accused the Kabul regime of torturing Pakistani political prisoners.
 L.__________________________________J
 ---------------— AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page ®
       "I'm proud if Masood permits me to sit beside him and discuss ... Jehad." - Martyr Abdullah Ezam
     The following interview with Abdullah Ezam was published in the Okm Daily in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on the 26th of November, 1989.
     Q. Negative propaganda is being said against Ahmad Shah Masood. They say he has formed a government inside a government and he works on behalf of France. Is this propaganda wrong or right?
     A. It would be strange for me to judge about Ahmad Shah Masood. Who am I to dare to do so? I feel proud if he permits me to sit beside him and discuss with him issues concerning Jehad. How do you ask me to evaluate a person through whom Allah has caused the inridels to tremble and communism to be defeated? To me Masood is bigger than Napoleon because he has defeated those who had defeated Napoleon.
     By God! Oh brother! This a bad way of criticizing Jehad and worse than that, to call a person like Masood to be an agent of France!! About forty days ago I visited Masood. He lived with ten of his followers in a mountain cave in an extremely cold climate. Such a living could not be tolerated except by a handful of people. What they eat is borrowed, their transportation costs are borrowed and they have borrowed their ammunition.
     Masood complained in a polite manner that we might have thought that he was rich, because he was not extending his hand to ask for help. And he added, he owed 200 million Afghanis to the merchants because he had borrowed the money to feed his Mujahideen.
     Yes, they live with confidence in God and continue to go to the chosen path of Jehad-the path of Muslims' dignity.
     Q. No doubt Masood has been able to organize his guerilla units and has been the founder of what is called the "Islamic Guerilla School". But lately the rumors have spread that Masood has stopped righting against the Najib regime until judgement about the Faikhar incident is made.
     A. It is true that the young faithful man Ahmad Shah Masood, is the founder of Islamic guerilla warfare. He has read most of the books written about guerilla warfare. He has studied about the Vietnam war, the Chinese experience, Castro and Che Guevara's
 struggle and others, because learning about the experiences of others is knowledge and Almighty Allah has said:
     Many were in the Way of Life That have passed away Before you: Travel throught The earth, and see what was The end of those Who rejected Truth.
                     (SJII. 137)
     It means take lessons from other people's experiences.
     He has made use of those parts which were applicable to the Afghan situation in a very orderly and calculated manner. I name some of those people who were illiterate, but because of their company with Masood and learning from him the Soviets gave them the title of General. Pana and Gada are two of these people. The Soviets called them General Pana and General Gada, because they were badly defeated by these illiterate but knowledgeable Mujahideen.
     Abdullah Anas, a friend of Masood, once asked me if it was possible to help Pana by giving him one thousand Pakistani Rupees ($50) per month because he was poor. This is the life of General Pana one of the senior commanders of Masood.
     About this rumor that Masood has stopped his military activities, I should ask you how and where he has done so? Last September, I saw the remains of more than 1000 tanks and military vehicles in Panjshir. All these were destroyed with steady fastness and courage of the Mujahideen. The Soviets had taken out twice the remains of their destroyed vehicles before they left Afghanistan.
     Why such a question is being asked while Masood's forces have under their control a major part of the Salang highway. The Mujahideen live under the shower of thousands of bullets, mortar shells and explosive devises. This way the communist forces want to gain control of the highway.
     For some time the Mujahideen belonging to Masood have closed the Salang highway by launching attacks against it. Where is the mass media to report these events honestly?
     Q. The world media has made a big issue out of the Farkhar incident to defame Jehad, what is your opinion about it?
     A. About the Farkhar incident. I'll report die story the way I have been informed. The story is like this:
     A foolish man, called Sayed Mirza, whom I knew well, was a commander of Sayed Jamal who is the chief commander in that area (4 villages close to Farkhar Gorge). He is Sayed Jamal's brother and controlled four villages. He is famous for his bad manners and hot temper.
     Ahmad Shah Masood had called a meeting of commanders from the four provinces of Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz and Baghlan to plan a major attack against the enemy after the Eidul-Azha. He set the date for the attack as the 30th of July and described to the commanders the new strategy and tactics of the war. He outlined the remaining enemy positions with the help of maps and information he had gathered about them.
     After the meeting most of the commanders wanted to return to their areas with a few of their men . On their way they had to pass an area which was controlled by Sayed Mirza. He ordered the commanders and Mujahideen to go to a mosque. During the night all commanders were separated from the Mujahideen. Two days later about 100 local Ulama (Islamic scholars) went to Sayed Jamal and advised him not harm the captured commanders. Sayed Jamal promised not to harm them, but his brother went ahead and executed the five important commanders.
     No wise man can do such a thing. Even a person who does not believe in God will not do such a thing. Sayed Mirza who was a recognized professional criminal was a stupid person because the area he controlled was encircled by territory controlled by Masood.
     When the Ulamas heard about the killing of the commanders, they gave the verdict that he is a killer and a highway robber and the Mujahideen should right against him.
     Masood told the Ulamas that his Mujahideen will surround Sayed Mirza's area because if they battled, more people would be killed. Masood announced that the aim of his siege was the apprehension of Sayed Jamal and his brother. Sayed Jamal's men were surrounded and each day the circle was tightening around them.
     People abandoned Jamal and his brother and they with one other person took refuge in Taloqan. They refused to
                                                          Turn to page (4)
                              AFGHANews Vol 6, No 2, January 15,1990, page Q
Panjshir reconstruction committee lacks necessary funding to rebuild the Valley
     In the. April 15th edition of Afghanews an article was written which covered the activities of the Reconstruction Committee for the Panjshir Valley. We thought it might be interesting for our readers if an updated article was written about the work of the Reconstruction Committee and the various problems they are encountering.
     The Reconstruction Committee is still headed by Engineer Kamaluddin.
 It is located in a small building in the University Town sector of Peshawar. The committee is divided into a number of different departments each with their own responsibilities which includes road building, mapping, surveying and planning. As one walks into a room designated to each department, it becomes apparent that there is a major shortage of necessary technical equipment. The departments have only the barest of necessities in terms of equipment to conduct their work. However, these shortages are partly made up for by the application and dedication of the staff. Everybody appears to be very busy with their work and it became evident that the staff really believe in the desirability and meaningfulness of their work.
     The Reconstruction Committee has produced a number of finalized plans for important projects involving road repair and construction, and the building of health clinics, mosques, schools, houses, bridges and culverts. However, unless additionally sources of funding can be found then these projects cannot be implemented. The Reconstruction Committee is facing a financial crisis where they cannot even pay the full salaries of their own staff. Presently the Reconstruction Committee is receiving funds for its projects from Afghanaid, The Swedish Committee For Afghanistan, VITA, and representatives of the Reconstruction Committee are presently negotiating with the UN agencies working for Afghanistan about die possibilities of receiving additional funding.
      One of the major successes of the Reconstruction Committee has been the construction of a road from border of Badakhshan over the famous Dora Pass. The construction team only had one bulldozer and had to work in the harsh and cold environment of mountains towering over 4500 meters. Despite the working conditions the road was completed in just six months
By: Umar Jessurun
 which surprised many critics who said that such a project could not be achieved. If the road is connected to the Northern road system, then it will considerably promote the ease of transporting relief goods and reconstruction material to the people living in the Northern part of Afghanistan, who are presently suffering from major shortages of food, medicine and other necessary relief items.
     Kamaluddin's Committee help the people of the Panjshir Valley by giving them seed, fertilizer and oxen for ploughing, so that they can produce their own food.
     Work has begun on three new irrigation channels with available funds. Their completion depends on the availability of further funds. Once they are completed it will be beneficial to the local people in producing farm products. New farms created by the channels will be given to families badly affected by the war.
     The Reconstruction Committee is busy building two stretches of road, one is in Paryan where 25 km of the road has been completed and the other is in Dara Side Valley where 3 km of the road has been built.
     An unfortunate incident confronted the Committee concerning a planned pilot project to build a small hydroelectric plant in Bazarak. While the turbine was being transported from Chitral, a explosion happened and four technical people died and all of the equipment was destroyed.
     One of the major aims of the Reconstruction Committee is to train Afghani citizens to carry out survey work of war damage in the areas of Panjshir, Baghlan and Takhar. So far the Committee has trained 30 young men, who have all spent three months studying in Peshawar (Pakistan). These men are now working in three teams head each by an experienced engineer. When these men return from their work inside Afghanistan, they will receive further training to extend their knowledge.
     The work of the Reconstruction Committee is welcomed by the local people and the various Mujahideen units controlling the areas where projects are presently under construction. Of particular significance has been the construction of two hospitals and health clinics which are now enticing people
 from many localities which are a considerable distance from these facilities. Projects such as these ha$ raised the esteem of the committee in the opinion of the local people and Mujahideen.
     One of the major problems which is confronting the reconstruction work is the presence of considerable numbers of land mines. These mines have pose problems for the safety of the local people and the construction teams. Sadly many people have lost their lives or have suffered injuries as a result of the planted mines. The Reconstruction Committee in order to overcome the problems of mines has initiated a number of mine clearing programs in conjunction with local Mujahideen units. They have managed to clear many of the mines but the work will take many years to make the area totally safe mice again.
                                                        Editorial
                                                           | From page (4)
     The decision taken by several countries to close their embassies on security grounds, in January 1989, passed a political message to the Kabul regime which was well understood. The resumption of ties will have negative implications. The Kabul regime will consider it a victory for itself and the world will think, wrongly, that the situation in Kabul has returned to normal and the regime has won its war for survival.
     If the French government made a 'mistake' in its calculation when it decided to take its diplomats out of Kabul last January, at least it did not hurt the people who were struggling for their freedom. But correction of this ' mistake' will be harmful to the cause of Afghan people, which France has so far supported.
     The decision of French government will hurt the feelings of millions of Afghan people who are actively opposing the Kabul regime.
     It is surprising that this decision has been taken in a country where public awareness about Afghanistan is higher than in most Western countries, and where dozens of support committees were formed by ordinary citizens to help Afghans in their just struggle.
     Jami'at advises the French government to reconsider its decision to reopen its embassy in Kabul, because it is not useful to die French people and definitely is harmful to the Afghans' noble cause.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No2, January 15,1990, page©
Soviet parliament condemns 79 invasion of Afghanistan
     The Soviet Parliament has condemned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979.
     The chairman of die foreign committee of die parliament while tabling the resolution said that the invasion needs condemnation on moral and political grounds. But he said condemnation does not include the soldiers who participated in fighting in Afghanistan.
     The parliament observed one minute silence for 15,000 Soviet soldiers who lost their lives in Afghanistan.
     The current Soviet leaders accuse four people of making the decision to invade Afghanistan. These four leaders are now dead.
     Earlier the Soviet parliament passed a law forgiving all those Soviet servicemen who committed crimes in Afghanistan.
     It is interesting that despite the of-
 ficial condemnation of the invasion, the Soviet leaders still support the Kabul regime which is a product of the invasion.
     Some weeks ago. General Sagalov, who is considered to be close to Gorbachev defended the policy of supporting the Kabul regime and criticized those who opposed it
     The Soviet leaders do not talk much about the more than one million Afghan people killed in the war by their soldiers and the destruction of most of that country by the Red Army.
     Gorbachev and his colleagues) criticize the invasion because they were not directly involved in making the decision to invade Afghanistan and because the Soviet army could not win the war and as a result of that, the Soviet Union's prestige was damaged. Their cry is for their failure, not for the suffering of their victim who they still want to suffer.
           French Government plans to re-open its Kabul embassy
     The French government has decided to re-open its embassy in Kabul which was closed before the completion of the Soviet troops' withdrawal.
     France is the first West European country to take such a decision and has informed its allies about it.
     France and other Western countries evacuated their embassies last February on security grounds. They were afraid of the deterioration of law and order after the Soviet troops’ withdrawal.
     At that time, the Kabul regime criticized the decision of Western countries and called it 'psychological war against the democratic Afghanistan'.
     After the Soviet invasion the Western countries reduced their diplomatic missions to a level of protocol, but always defended having diplomatic relations with the Kabul regime. One of their arguments was that their embassies provided them with information they needed.
     The re-opening of the French embassy will please the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime and they will interpret it as a sign of the regime's approval by the international community.
     It is said that delegations from other Western countries have visited Kabul
to see the condition of their embassy buildings and talk to their local staff. It could an initial step for the re-opening their embassies.
                    i
    A French scholar, Olivier Roy, told the BBC that some other Western countries may follow France by reopening their missions in Kabul.
    A German diplomat in Islamabad said his country doesn't have any plan to re-open its embassy in Kabul.
                                                                           January 3,1990
                                                                               Jaddi 13,1368
 Area/Tem. in Ce
H L
 Kabul              2    -1
                                                                                                                 ranin 10mm, snow 1cm
 North Salang       -8 - 10
                                                                                                                  rain 10mm, snow 8cm
 Jabulseraj         2    0
                                                                                                                 rain 13mm, snow 12cm
 Chekhcharan        2    -4
                                                                                                                  rain 9mm, snow 16cm
 Mazar-i-Sharif     1    -1
           rain 2mm
 Kunduz             3    -1
           rain 1mm
 Maimana            1    -3
                                                                                                                  rain 1mm, snow 11cm
 Herat              5    0
           rain 3mm
 Lashkargah         12   4
 Ganfiz             0    -7
          snow 20 cm
Jalalabad 12 6 
/              
Faizabad   4 0 
Shindand   9 1 

Najibullah forces have fired 1,000 SCUD missiles in past 10 months
   American special envoy to the Afghan resistance, Peter Tomsen, told VO A that since last February, the Soviets have sent 5500 plane loads of armament to the Kabul regime.
   In an interview on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, he said that AN-76 transport planes have brought the arms and ammunitions to Bagram and Kabul military airports.
   He disclosed that since the withdrawal of Soviet troops on February 15, 1989, the Kabul regime has fired 1,000 SCUD missiles from Kabul. The Soviets continue to deliver BM-27 ground-to-ground rockets and 240 mm mortars to the regime.
   A SCUD missile costs about one million dollars. It is a medium-range rocket which are fired with the help of Soviet military advisors from Kabul and Mazar-i-Sharif.