AFGHAN
NEWS
                  A. FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                             Post Office Box No. Jo4. Peshawar- Pakistan Vol. II. No. 17. 1/9/1986.
                                  ASJONJFICANT VICTORY
 The fall of Ferkhar garrison at the hand of Mujahideen is an important military achievement. After the fall of Pushghoor garrison in 1985. the fall of Ferkhar garrison is an important event.
 Ferkhar is a district of Takhar province. It is a valley which was liberated in 1979. In 1985 the enemy launched an offensive and established the garrison which was manned by more than 300 soldiers. Several attempts by Mujahideen in the past to capture the garrison failed to bring the result. To capture such a garrison ohe needs a strong force, detailed planning and coordination.
 To gather a strong force it was natural to ask different districts to contribute one or more of their units. These units were trained and pul into uniform, it was decided to give command to a local commander and Mullah Abdul Wadood was chosen, he was supported by an eiperienced deputy commander Gada from Panjshir. For a long time Commander Masood has been busy working to build a practical unity. The Council of the North was formed and Mujahideen reorganized. Units were trained and equtpped, and Central forces were formed. The idea of farming central forces is to break local barriers which prevent Mujahideen from cooperating wiLb each other.
 In this operation units from Panjshir , Eshkamish, Khost .Ferkhar, (Ccsbm and Taleqan (four provinces) fought together. The outcome of the operation was 210 enemy captured and 110 killed. A large amount of arms and ammunition and foodstuff was captured
 All this was done with five Mujahideen martyrd and 8 injured. All this proves the following important points:
 1. Mujahideen have made progress in the tactical and organizational aspects of the war. Some of the units who participated in the operation had not fought such a successful battle in the past.
  ABGHA&MffS VOL, .11__WLAl____U3Z13M__BAGSJL
 2. Coordination was translated from theory to action. For the first time Mujahideen from four provinces fought beside each other.
 3- It was seen by ail Mujahideen as encouragement to all Mujahideen to launch attacks against isolated enemy garrisons.
 4. It proves that the puppets are not able to keep the places which the Soviets occupied for them.
 5. It denies the pessemistic theory that the Mujahideen are losing the war. As the result of Soviet propaganda and the writtings of some shallow-minded journalists, some people have started to think that the Mujahideen are losing the war. In the Spring, offensive, commando action in June and the fall of Ferkhar garrison which all took part in the North. Mujahideen faught well and cooperated among themselves. Althoug in Farkhar operation ail the groups taking part were from Jamiat but it is planned to involve other parties in joint operations in the future.
 This victory is not the end of the war but the begining of more challenges. The enemy will not sit silent. It will try to nullify the result of the victory by some unpleasant actions.
 As long as Mujahideen are united, observe dicipiine and apply proper tactics, with the help of Almighty Allah, the enemy will be defeated.

                     MMJAHWWQAPTURW FERKHAR GARRISON
 Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of Mulla Abdul Wadood, the Chief Commander of Takhar. attacked Ferkhar garrison at 5-45 pm on 17th of August. Fighting continued untill 3 30 am. Half of the garrison was captured. The second phase of the attack was launched on August 20th at 5.55am and continued for about one hour As a result of this operation the rest of the garrison was captured.
 From 323 enemy personnel, present in the garrison . 210 including 40 officers (puppets) were captured. The rest were killed during the two days of operations.
 Mujahideen captured the following items:
 1 213 light weapons of different kinds.
 2 15 heavy weapons including one 76mm Desert Howitzer.
   AESflAN. NE¥S._.-Y.QLJ..Q_____M17         1/9/1986    PAGE 3
 3  200,000 rounds of light weapons ammunition.
 4  2000 round of mortar and 76mm gun.
 5- One R 104 wire less set.
 6- A Communication set of "SEG" type belonging to KHAD.
 7-  One wire-less set of PALMA type belonging to the puppet police (Sarandoy),
 8-  Four R-105 wireless sets.                                   «
 9 Two Electric Generators
 10 - 70 Lons of food stuff.
 11  - some amount of clothes, furniture and one truck of Gaz-66 type.
 The operation was commanded by Mulla Abdul Wadood and Commander Gada from Panjshir worked as his deputy.
 The following units took part in the operation: -
 1 - One Mobile unit from Panjshir.
 2  - One Mobile unit from Khost-i-Freng.
 3- One Mobile unit from Kshkamish 4 - One Mobile unit from Kesbm.
 5- One unit from TaSeqan (the province of Takhar).
 6 Two units of Central Forces.
 Five Mujahideen were martyred and 8 others wounded. This was a unique operation . Mujahideen appiiied the basic rules of attacking the enemy's weak point with units from different bases making maximum use of the element of surprise.
                                        HERAT PROVINCE
 27/7/1986. In a clash between Mujahideen and the enemy in Ghooryan. two tanks were destroyed and their crew were killed.
 On the same date Commander Mohammad Rahim and his men launched an attack on the enemy posts in the surroundings of Herat city and were able to wipe out 4 posts, kill 20 enemy soldiers and capture 27 others
   AHzflAJN S£BLS.___YQLJ1_______HQ..1X.____UM13M._______EAGE_i
 Mujahideen also atiacked the 4th armoured battalion. They made use of an i07mm rocket against the enemy. This battalion is stationed 1*5 Km. away from the 17th Division in Herat.Am ammunition and a fuel depot were hit. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties and enemy casualties could not be estimated.
 6/8/1986. An enemy helicopter was shot down in Ghooryan district. Bight Jets and 22 Helicopters of the enemy bombed the Mujahideen positions in Ghooryan district. During the operation Mujahideen shot down an enemy helicopter with a SAM-7.
 SAM-7 which is a Russian made heat-seeking missile is generally ineffective against the enemy planes which are using decoy flares to mislead the missile. The type of the helicopter which was shot down is not mentioned in the report.
 7/8/1986. A militia Commander Abdul Satar joined Mujahideen in Ghooryan district with 30 of his followers He brought with him 30 guns and some ammunition.
 The report says that Khuaja Zabihullah, Jamiai Commander in Ghooryan welcomed the decision of Abdul Satar and his followers It should be noted that the Soviets are trying hard to form militia groups to decrease the
 burden of war from the shoulders of their soldiers,
 Despite spending a great deal of money they have not been successful. The only motive behind the decision of militias to join the enemy is either economic or local rivalry. Ideology does not play a role. Some militia groups are cooperating with the Resistance and almost ail of them are selling arms and ammunition to the Resistance.
                                                    «
 17/8/1986. The Russian Red Army with the help of air cover from 30 Jets and 50 Helicopters and ground forces consisting of 1000 AFVs attacked the Mujahideen base located in k'akari area situated 20 km North of Islam Qala on the Afghan-Iranian border.The Mujahideen resisted the invading force . One hundred puppet-Russian soldiers were killed and more than hundred wounded. In addition 2 helicopters and 20 AFVs were destroyed,
 Twenty Mujahideen were killed and 30 others injured.
                                     KIINAR PROVINCE
 23/8/1986. A group of Mujahideen from jamiai attacked the Soviet-DRA post of Sherkani District. The stand off attack was carried out with 107mm rockets A total of 30 rounds were fired. Five fell short from the target but the remainder were accurate. In order to divert enemy attention one free-flight round was fired from an obvious place. This proved useful because the enemy artillary which returned fire aimed for that area which was far from.
   AFGHAN NEWS VOL. II___________NQ, 17     1/9/1316____EA.GE.5
 the real position of the launcher. Mujahideen zerowised their launcher by using Walk! Talkies between the Observation Post (OP) and the launcher.
 it was later learned that Mujahideen had borrowed the Walkie-Talkies from another group belonging to a different party.
 it was obvious that the Mujahideen have made progress but they must be criticised for using Walkie-Talkies longer than was necessary arid for talking too openly. The attack wTas carried out from Gajgal valley on the east side of the Kunar river. The lower part of the valley is deserted and some of the population are living in the upper part of Gajgal valley.
                                                                                                    «
 Kumar is a province located along the border of Pakistan. It is the province which, started the resistance against the Communist rule in 1978. The weak point of kunar is me presence of many parties ialmost all are representedh which makes coordination a little difficult.
                                        MMIAN PWyjM£
 27/7/1986. The report from Jawzjan province says that the Mujahideen in a clash with enemy forces were able to kill 62 soldiers and wound 56 others and destroy two tanks in Aqcha district. Four Mujahideen were martyred and 10 others wounded in the operation.
                                      MMLmQVjNCE
 1/8/1986. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked an enemy post in Arghande located about 15 Km. 'West of Kabul city on the Kabul-Kandahar Highway. As a result 4 AK-47$ were stezed by the Mujahideen, 13 enemy soldiers were killed and five soldiers and three military officers were captured!
 4/8/1986. Mujahideen led by Commander Fazlurahman attacked an enemy post in Tangy a suburb of Kabul City in the Souni-West direction. The fighting continued for two hours and resulted in the killing of several enemy soldiers Sis Mujahideen were injured m the operation.
 10/8/1986 Mujahideen of jegdaiik commanded bv Ebrahim Khan ambushed an enemy convoy on the Kabul-Jalalabad highway in Tangai Abrishumi area and destroyed two AFVs with two other military vehicles. Thirty Russian-DR A soldiers were killed in the ambush while the Mujahideen returned safely to their base.
 16/8/1986. The Mujahideen of jegdalik have also carried out a series of attacks on the enemy bases in Jaji of Paktia province, One Mujahid was injured. Attacks on the enemy garrison in jap are in the form of stand off operation using heavy weapons. The enemy garrison in Jaji has been surrounded by Mujahideen since several years
  AFGHAN NEWS_MJI__H&A1___1Z3/1M6_EMIL&
                       MMKMHAKMQVimE
 f\ report from Badakhshan province says that Mujahideen have carried out a series of attacks in Wardooj valley. It is said that a large number of posts have been destroyed and a large amount of arms and ammunition captured. Details will be published in the coming issues of Afghan News,
                                          PMTIA PRQYJJSCM
 6/8/1986. A report from Urgoon says that Mujahideen launched an attack on an enemy post in the South of Urgoon. As a result the enemy forces, reeieved many casualties. Three Mujahideen 'were injured. No figure for enemy casualties has been given.
                    S-QYIBTOBU^
 According to a report by the BBC some days, ago a Soviets attempt to smuggle large quantities of Heroin to Western Europe was foiled. The heroin which was labled as dry fruit from Afghanistan' was on board a Soviet ship which had started its journey from a Soviet port and had reached Amsterdam. The ship could not be stopped because after unloading it left the port and entered international Waters.
 This clearly show how the Soviets are playing a dirty game . It also shows how they are misusing the trade opportunities of the puppet regime for their
 benefit,
 We are surprised that the mass media did not give this incident the coverage it deserved . A super power . a member of the Security Council, a signatory of tens of treaties if it indulges in drug trafficking must be taken very seriously.
                                             DEAPMRMS
 In an attempt to keep its officers happy the puppet regime gave the title of hero of Afghanistan to four of its officers Two of the officers have already been Ruled One of them was General Ahmaduddin a Parchami officer who was killed in Pushghoor operation in Panjshir last year.
 When he refused to surrender an RPG shell cut him into pieces. We have killed half the Red Heroes and the other hail will soon be dead.
                                    ISLAMIC PROPAGATION CENTER
 An Islamic Propagation Center has been opened in the Panjshir recently. The purpose of the Center is to teach students and Mujahideen about their religion, and struggles The Center will be run by prominent Ulema t Islamic scholars) from the area. This type of work is necessary to safeguard the principles ol Islam and teach the new generation about their religious duties and social obligations.
                       ____m_il_____U3U3M______EASE.7
          MU1AHIDEEN HEED IRAN'S ACTIVE SUPPORT
 The Islamic Republic of Iran has given political support to the struggle of the Afghan people agonist the Soviet invaders The Mujahideen have the
 opportunity to have some cultural and political activities in Iran. 1.5 million Afghan refugees are living there All these deserve appreciation.
 These days there are talks about improvement of relations between the Soviet Union and Iran and arrangements for more trade. While every country has the right to have a relationship with any other country, it should be born in the minds of our brothers in Iran, that the Soviets are the killers of more than one million muslims in. Afghanistan.and that they, are degrading Quran and destroying mosques there.                                *
 Soft condemnation and polite disapproval of the invasion is insufficient. It is. the duty of our muslim brothers in Iran to help the jehad by every means: As President Khamanei told a Mujahideen delegation in Islamabad, the cause of Afghanistan is the cause of Islam.
 Complete moral and material support is necessary for the continuation of the resistance. If today we hesitate to take practical- steps tomorrow we would
 regret it,
 We Afghans not only ask for the continuation of strong political support but
 eipeet material support to continue our jehad.
 God forbid, if Afghanistan is pacified . the neighbouring countries will face serious security problems. There are compelling religious and geo-political reasons why our muslim brothers in Iran should extend their moral and material support to the Mujahideen.
 Iran having a good relationship with radical Arab stales can influence them stop opposing Mujahideen membership ,;n the Islamic Conference
 With proper political support the Islamic non-aligned and neutral Afghanistan will be freed and a big tragedy will come to an end.
 You are «true hero *>( the Swtei
to volunteer lor f.notiier tour of
                  ___muJii_______mkji______immh pagr &
'■ ieucr was written by a Soviet soldier who has defected to the Mujahideen in Afghanistan.)
                                                                                                                                         * (

/
 <L<$U6UIU'
'Ms
 '*1tU4*CtUS
Vastus*** ewe? •
(X^Cz-t'ctUcc*           ~
                                                 0%r*6usutfU'

     !£>£</u*X/ ^                                             e^aa
                                                       <7

QtU**&£>t
>t£U44ZaLS.
   O^f-ca.rt't^pf                         £f*f*+7jls-     *ylu&ucM6t4C
 Jt/ ^ 'Ji-uiitu, 7C>MXZ tau^ec*                                #jf
7

                                                                                    /u?f st.
Canada
Montreal
Programme Russian Radio'
Greetings from Afghanistan.
 i am wnttmg to you as a Prisoner of War in Afghanistan. My name is Leonid Vyiku. A iittle about rayseif: I was born in Moldavia, in a small village called Skinoshika. Once when I was turning the dial on my reciever, I unexpectedly tuned in to your broadcast in the Russian language with some difficulty. 1 also managed to pick up your signal on other occasions.
 Of course I do not .know who you are actually, whh make those broadcasts, but 1 enjoyed them very much and am grateful for the interesting information contained in your transmissions All this does not only make the Prisoners of War bate the Soviet Union and the power of the Communists, but also the soldiers. Some of the soldiers probably listen into, but before 1 crossed, over to become a rebel, I know nothing about foriegn broadcasts. But now 1 am acquainted with Voice of America , Washington , the Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran", Tehran, the Voice of Free Europe' and the BBC from London, in both the Russian and Romanian languages.
1 imagine that you are emigrants from the Soviet Union or Prisoners of War, who stayed on overseas. 1 am writting to send you my warmest greetings, best wishes for the future and every success in your noble work. If you have respect for those who have isolated themselves from their homeland, tar from their parents, nearest and dearest friends, who have crossed over to the side of these noble rebels, for the sake of peace on earth, send a reply.
Yours respectfully (and impatientlyi from ail the rebels.
                              II JKL-1I______US---------PACES
          I also send you a small gift of a poem.
          Along the silent street an Afghan woman walked. Achilcl she carried strapped behind her hack.
          In a flash the sky of blue transformed to red,
          ■\nd neath the thundrous roar
          The woman lost her step
          Peoples of the world wish not to fight
          As children need to laugh
          So they to toy do have their right.
 Interview with Prof. Burhanuddin Rabhani
 Soviets Cannot seal Border
    "I Do not know of any U.S. Aid"
 On June 19, 1986 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, a top leader of the Afghan mujahideen, was interviewed in Washington, D.C. by. Br. Kaukab Siddique, Editor-in-chief of New Trend.' Thanks for arranging the interview and for translation from Farsi to English go to three Afghan brothers, Br. Kohistani, Br. Areef, and Br, Jahed, alt of them from Jamiate island Afghanistan which has its strongholds in Panjshir valley, Badakhshan province (on the Soviet frontier) and in the Herat region.)
  The following is an edited summary of the interview, prepared with comments by the editor of New Trend.
 For a person who.faces death at the hands of Soviet agents on a daily basis. Prof. Rabbani is an extremely calm, even placid personality, though in his eyes you can see the glint of the steeled Islamic struggler. He dresses very neatly in cool, loosely fitting, Afghan garments with a traditional turban on his head. He smiles gently and talks without pretensions. He is fluent in Farsi, but speaks and understands Pushtu, Urdu, Arabic, and English to a lesser or a greater degree.
  Why is it that none of the Muslim countries have recognized the mujahideen, 1 asked? He smiled deprecating!)' unwilling to criticize the Muslim countries, and mentioned the affiliations which Muslim countries have. {Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, and most other Muslim countries have diplomatic relations with the USSR but do not recognize the mujahideen.) About his trip to the US, Prof. Rabbani pointed out that he met President Reagan, member* of the U.S. Congress and various Senators. The U.S. government however told him that the U.S, has diplomatic relations with the (Soviet-installed) Kabul regime and at this time the U.S. is not ready to recognize the mu jahideen. The U.S. considers itself more effective if it maintains its links with Kabul. Prof. Rabbani tried to look at the situation more positively; he was of the view that the U.S. is waiting for Muslim governments to recognize the mujahideen first. (Personally i see this as a very ironic situation: for instance, Iran has been criticizing Prof. Rabbani's trip to the U.S. but maintains its own diplomatic relations with the USSR. 1 realised how Yasir Arafat must have felt when he went to Moscow for help and was criticized.)
  Prof. Rabbani was very careful not to criticize the host government of Pakistan, hut firmly and clearly he pointed out that the mujahideen cannot accept any agreement to which they are not a party; also that he is asking the count ries of the world to deal directly with the Afghans instead of going through "third parties", obviously a reference to Pakistan.
  Have $500 million reached the mujahideen from the U.S.? 1 wanted to know. Prof, Rabbani denied any knowledge of any aid reaching the mujahideen from America. Having sounded a little too critical, he then softened his statement by saying that: "Some money may have been, probably has been spent by the (Pakistani) officials, among the refugees, to provide shelter, food, medicines. This could have happened, but it is not in our knowledge." 1 took the opportunity to
 point out to the mujahid leader that people like Selig Harrison and other anti-Islam elements stir up the stories about "CIA aid" whenever the Soviets launch an offensive; the Zionists who control the media here are worried that the Muslim Afghans may gain popular support in the United States.
   in reply to another question. Prof. Rabbani stated that the Soviets cannot seal the Afghan-Pakistan border. If you knew the border, he said, you would realise why. There are simply too many paths and routes and the border is very long and winding. The Soviets would need a million troops to sea) it.
   In answer to a question about Ms. Benazir Bhutto's trip to Peshawar, Prof. Rabbani agreed that there has been an improvement in the PPP leader's stance about the Afghans; no national leader in Pakistan can ignore the plight of the Afghan people.
   Coming back to the stories of CIA aid for the mujahideen, Prof. Rabbani pointed out that if the mujahideen gain recognition, they will be able to scotch such rumors by questioning those who are spreading such stories. For instance, in Congress itseself the issue could be raised and such claims could be challenged.
   Militarily, sail} Prof. Rabbani, the mujahideen are fighting hard and doing very well by the highest standards. Iran, he said, has not given any military help. An end to the war between Iran and Iraq, he said, would benefit the Afghan mujahideen.
   Prof. Rabbani, in a message to the readers of New Trend, said that he has been receiving New Trend in his offices in Pakistan. He urged the readers of New Trend to remember that the struggle in Afghanistan is a Jihad and it is a struggle in which all Muslims must do their best to participate according to their capacities.