Voi 4, No 21
November 1,1988
Mujahideen liberate three more provinces
 THE Mujahideen spread their t a council to help the adsamistra- i hundred enemy troops were cap-
 control slowly but steadily. Although no major breakthrough has taken place since the Soviets have started to withdraw their troops, the Mujahideen have been abie to liberate five provincial headquarters and tens of districts.
    The most recent victory came in Kunar province In East of Afghanistan. This strategic valley is under control of the Resistance, The Mujahideen have
| tion. All the seven parties of the j Alliance are represented equally I in the council,
j   A prominent religious scfaol-
j ar. Mawlavi Ghofam Rabbanl has j been appointed the governor of \ Kunar, .
1   The late Mujahideen victories
j in Bad&khshan were significant. Jure District and Baharak sub-| district were liberated. In | Baharak the Communist regime I suffered a major set-back at the
set up a civil administration and j hands of the Mujahideen. Seven
            Mujahideen plan reconstruction
    " THE propaganda that the Mujahideen Trail fight among themselves after liberation of the country is vrong. So far five provinces and 80 to wis have been liberated and no major problems have occurred".
    This was stated by Prof. Rabbsni- the Chairman of the Afghan Mujahideen Alliance after his return from ative-TOeks trip to the North of Afghanistan, in a press conference held in Islamabad on October 17.
    Talking about the Mujahideen progress in the North, Prof. R&bbani said he was greatly impressed by the excellent administration of the areas under the control of the Supervisory Council of-the North which is
 unprecedented.
    He said that while meeting the commanders from different provinces he Instructed them to ensure more security for civilians after liberation of the areas, fry establishing proper administration guaranteeing the life and property of the people. Besides this, he told commanders to be careful not to harm the people while attacking the enemy targets within the perimeter of the cities,
    Asked about direct talks with the Russians, Prof. Rabbanl said that there were signs-whieh showed the Russians readiness to direct talks with the Mujahideen.
    In response to a question whether the Mujahideen would
                                                                                            Turn to page ( 3 )
 lured and more than 1700 guns and 2 S APCs fell in the hands of the Mujahideen. The operation was conducted by the local forces of Jami'at affiliated to the Supervisory Council of the North.
     Paktika and Kapisa provinces were also liberated. Pressure on Qandahar is mounting. The supply lines of Kabul are coming under Mujahideen's threat. The Kabul-Jalalabad Road was cut for one week which created shortages of some commodities in Kabul,
     Najib In the party congress complained of the Mujahideen activities in South Saiang. SaJang highway is the most important transportation line which connects the capital Kabul to the Soviet border.
     The Mujahideen attacks on the enemy installations around Kabul have increased and some militia groups have broken away from the regime to avoid destruction at the hands of the Mujahideen.
     The Soviet press has admitted the mounting pressure on the regime. The regime has responded to the late victories in a funny way. The cabinet of the regime has discussed merging of Paktika province in Paktia province and merging of Kapisa province in Perwan province to decrease the number of liberated provinces.
     The critical time is approaching. When the Soviets have withdrawn their troops the return to page (3)
AFGHANews Voi 4, No 21, November 1,1988, page 2
             News
  From the battlefields
Badakhshan province
   THE Mujahideen from Jami'at, after 16 hours of fighi-iag, captured Baharak DRA Garrison on October 4, They killed 36 soldiers, took prisoner over 700 soldiers and seised the following arms;
  •  Light weapons       1700
  •  S2mtn Mortars          4
  •  120mm Mortar           l
  •D- 3 0 12 2mm Howi tzer 2
  •  APC                   22
  •Vehicle                 16
  •Palma wireless sets      2
  •R-105 Wireless sets     16
     A great amount of foodstuff, clothes and ammunition were also captured. The Mujahideen lost nine men and 17 others were injured.
     The operation was carried out under the command of Najmuddin, Jamiat commander in jurm District.
     Baharak is a sub-district of Badaihsban province located between Faizahad (Provincial capi» taJ of Badakhshan) and Eshkashim town. Baharak is situated about 15 kilometers from the Soviet border. The sub-district was liberated In 1979 and recaptured by the Russians ifi i960.
     With the Baharak Garrison being captured, Faiaafead, the capital of Badakhsftan, is facing Mujahideen's growing pressures, Najmuddin Khan was appointed as the jam!'at commander in Jurm after the fan of Reran Garrison in which he played an important role.
     Najmuddin. who works under the Supervisory Council of the North, is emerging as the most effective Jami at. commander in Badakhsb&n.
     Parwan province
     In a joint operation, the Mujahideen from Jami at captured a DRA post in Gulbahar (a town at- the mouth of Panjshir valley) seizing 25 Kalashinkov rifles, one PK machine gun, three mortars in addition to destroying two tanks, taking prisoner 2$ soldiers including eight officers and killing three others on 12th of October,
     On the same date, the Mujahideen captured four posts in Mi ana Guzar of jabul Sera! at the mouth of Saiaag valley.
     The report adds that when the Mujahideen attacked the | posts they fired rockets on the f DRA Second Military Division i situated along the Guibahar-I Jabul Sera* road, and Gulbahar ! Textile Milt to prevent them from helping the posts under [ attack,
 | It is believed that the enemy j suffered heavy casualties but no I details were available,
 ! The Mujahideen lost six men
  and four others were wounded. Two commanders of Mujahideen's mobile units namely Faqiruiiah and Qandagha were among -those who were killed.
                                            Herat province
  :
 j  The Mujahideen from JamPat
  I attacked DR As headquarter in
 Qaia-e-Yousuf Khan In Guzara District killing a dozen and taking prisoner 16 soldiers and seizing 130 Kaiashinkov rifles, eight heavy machine guns, two mortars, eight trucks and ten motorcycles on October 17.
    No Mujahideen casualties have been mentioned in the report.
    •The Mujahideen from jami at in three different attacks launched in different parts of the province against the Kabul regime posts killed 35 soldiers, captured 10 Machine guns and took prisoner nine soldiers.
    The first attack was launched on a DRA security post in Shahrak district in which the Mujahideen destroyed four posts and killed 20 soldiers on 11 th of October. The Mujahideen lost two men in the operation.
    The second operation was carried out on 12th of October on a militia base which resulted in the killing of four militias including their commander called Shamsak In Kalata area of Shahrak District.
    The last attack was launched i against police posts of Herat city in which the Mujahideen took prisoner seven policemen and seized 10 machine guns.
                                             Far al& province
    The Mujahideen shot down a Russian Jet in Shindand District on October 16,
    •The Mujahideen from jami at attacked two militia posts in Shorad village killing eight militias, taking prisoner 12 soldiers with 12 Kalashinkcv rifles and one Dschk machine gun on September 21.
    The posts were located about 12 kilometers from the provincial capital.
    •In an ambush against a DRA convoy, the Mujahideen from jami at destroyed seven APCs, killed over 15 soldiers and seized nine machine guns and 15 Kalashinkov rifles on September
 •* i t
                                                                                           Turn to page (3)
 I ■              - —
 i------------------------——
 ] News
 |        From page (2)
 J The convoy was ambushed in
 I Shamalgah area about 25 kliome-{ters from the provincial capital,
 { Four Mujahideen were wounded j in the operation,
 j                          j
 j        Ghazni province
 \ The Mujahideen from jam! at j helped by the local units. In J l j days of fighting, captured a DRA j brigade la Sard a Dam kill ing and j wounding 80 and taking prisoner j 35 soldiers including the fori-! gade commander,
 I The Mujahideen seized one 176mm howitzer, two APCs, 13 j tractors, two trucks, three heavy j machine guns and 200 light j weapons on September 28,
 ] The Mujahideen lost \ 2 men {and 13 others were wounded, j The brigade was situated i near the dam built with Russian j assistance: located about 15 kilometers south ef the city of | Ghazni,
 j Kabul province
 j The Mujahideen from jami at ! with the help of other groups at-j tacked DRA s security posts in j Bagram District destroying four j posts, killing 15 soldiers and ! taking prisoner two officers hi j addition to seising six guns and | 250 hand grenades on September 27,
 I The Mujahideen lost one man j and four others were wounded.
     The posts were situated be-j tween KoM Safi and Mahipar Dam j ia an area called Band Kohl, □ j
i
j Victories
| From page (1)
] gime will face greater pressure,
1 It is interesting to see that the liberated areas are adminis-| tered Jointly by ail the Mujahideen. The predictions of j the Soviets and the Communist j regime and some so-called j Western scholars that j Mujahideen would light each j other over the control of the new-1 iy-liberated areas have not j materialized. □
                AFQHANewa Vol 4, No 21, November 1,1963, Page 3
Mujahideen Flan reconstruction
                            From page (1)
accept the UN aid through the Kabul regime, he said the Mujahideen did not recognize the puppet regime and would not accept any aid through it. Aid must
                                Mujahideen ask QIC for food aid
  THE Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance, in a message to the Organization of the Islamic Conference has j appealed for food provisions to the people of j Afghanistan who are suffering from economic problems due to the continuing war.
                                Prof. Rafrbeni saio in the message that because of Russian atrocities condition of food and agriculture in Afghanistan is -very bad, Problems are numerous and
 ■ithe most immediate problems is severe food shortage in some areas of North Afghanistan especially in Faryab and Bactekhshan.- If \ no urgent action is taken it \ may lead to great hardship i of a consequence. Prof. R&bbant added.        |
 With regards to reconstruct i noxi of agricultural system, j the Ainance Chairman said j that rebuilding of irrigation system, providing oxen or tractors, fertilisers and im~ proved seed to farmers are t high priorities for the reconstruction.   j
 He urged the QIC to discuss the problems in its meeting ! on food security and sgricui- j niral developmen, □   [
be given directly to the Mujahideen, lie said.
    Concerning the future government of Afghanistan, Prof, Rafebani said it would be an I Islamic, non-aligned country { having friendly relations with j all the countries even with j Russia and India. If they correct | their past mistakes and do not j interfere in our affairs.      !
    In a separate meeting with 1 the representatives of bumani- j tartan organizations at the j Alliance headquarters in       |
Peshawar on 24 October, the ; Alliance leader said that the re- j construction work In the liberated areas has already started. 1 Prof. Rafebani said to the aid I workers that while vis!ting the I North he witnessed the         I
Mujahideen organizing and plan- | ning the reconstruction work. Comparing the past with present, Prof. R&bbani said that besides fighting the war against the Russians and the Kabul regime, the Mujahideen were able to reconstruct the roads useable for vehicles which were only useable by horses during the 40-years rule of Zahir Shah. In ■ addition to this, he said in 1 Fsrkfear. a district in T&Rftar j province 5000 children attended j schools,                       t
    The Mujahideen leader said I that mines were the threatening factor after the war. During his visit to Panjshlr, he said, he witnessed many mine explosions in the valley.
    Concerning the equivalent of $600 millions of Russian help promised to the UN reconstruction program, he said that this figure is nothing if it is given as ; war compensation. Otherwise, j the Russian help' means nothing t as long as they continue the war j and support the killing mschin- } ery of the Kabul regime.
    To a question about his poll- \ cy as the Chairman of the      I
Mujahideen Alliance he said he j would try to strengthen the uni- ! ty especially at the pol It leal j level, □                       [
L
 || Editorial                                          |
 i
 |UN resolution fails to I impress Mujahideen
     THE ON General Assembly Will pass a resolution on - Afghanistan unanimously in which the right for self-determination of Afghans tr/ill be emphasized. The | Resistance was not impressed by forthcoming resolutions I because the previous resolutions v/iach had the same ele-I ment were ignored in practice when the UN-sponsored | Geneva accords were signed.
     The voting will take place on tNoveeber the 3rd and there wiii he i no debate prior to casting of the vote-
 | The resolution has been drafted with consultation to the Soviet } Union hut- the terms are so general that any side can interpret them | io suit Its objectives.
     In the past eight years UN General Assembly passed resolutions j calling for the withdrawal of foreign {Soviet) troops from | Afghanistan. Soviets and a handful of its surrogates opposed the ; resolutions.
     Based on those resolutions the United Nations supervised prox-\ iffiity talks between Pakistan and the Communist regime in Kabul [ which resulted in signing of the Geneva accords on March H. i Despite clear reference to the right of self-determination of | Afghans in the successive resolutions the Geneva accord did not ad-! dress the issue.
 | The unanimous resolution which will be passed soon, stresses j the need for a broad-based government in Afghanistan, The Soviet j Union and the Kabul regime are voting for resolution because they j see it as a sign of approval of their so-called broaa-fcased govern-! meat proposal.
     The Mujahideen have rejected any power-sharing with the I Communist regime. Prof, Ran ban I, the Chairman of the Afghan | Mujahideen Alliance has said in dear terms that the Resistance is | not ready to accept a single Communist * in the future government j of Afghanistan,
     Diego Cordovez, the UN Secretary special envoy on Afghanistan | has been working towards a coalition government but has faced re-| iectiofi by the Mujahideen,
     This year no Mujahideen delegation have gone to New York to | draw world public opinion towards their problems, it is a pity that I when Soviets and their puppets are busy in extensive propaganda j the Resistance representatives are not available to present their j side of the story. There was indeed a strong need for such a trip,
     To win a propaganda bonus the Soviets announced to give to the j UN an equivalent of $600 million to be spent for humanitarian S purposes
     First of all it is not clear under what condition the Soviets wiii j give the mosey and in what form?
                                                                                Turn to page £ 8 )
 L--------------------------------------------—--------
 j i’lvintiiu^ll ftlliaHtC H&S Cl !
 j cized Diego Cor doves for hh [ comments about the Allianc [ called them "unwarranted" j "uncalled for "
     In a message to the UN j Secretary General the Mujah | leader has asked him to adv: j Mr. Cordovez to abstain fron | making ''partial" and ‘inaps | priate” statements in the fui Mr. Cordovez who is the ' rial representative of the U?
 : General Secretary played a &
 I role in arrangements for the j signing of the Geneva accord He was given the mandat j try to find way of forming a j broad-based government in I Afghanistan,
     The Resistance does net: j comfortable with Mr. Cordov i who master-minded the Gens | accord which was signed by I Pakistan and the Kabul regit ! and left out the Mujahideen, His approach towards fo ! tion of a broad-based govern j did not appeal to the Mujahh 1 because he envisages format! j of a government by tbe peep I i approved by the Mujahideen 1 the Communist fegiroe.
     The Mujahideen have reje | any sort of power-sharing wl | the communist regime in Kat It seems that. Mr, Cordov? j relying much on the views of j Afghan refugees in the West even has asked Zahir Shah to | the lead for formation of a go | era meat. Mr. Cordovez's dik | ma is that the people whom h j counts on to form the transit j al government are individual j with no organization capable | handling the great task,
     Mr, Cordovezs open criti | of the Mujahideen Alliance a I the Communist regime in Kaf. j could be a sign of frustmior Observers believe that | Cordovez is a capable negotia 1 but has little knowledge abot j the situation in Afghanistan,
AFGHANews Vo] 4, No 21, November 1,1988, Page
Opinion by;
Mohammad Es'&aq
     Interparty elections strengthen Afghan Resistance
j THE Mujahideen parties have | played a key role in conducting j the war against the Soviet invad-| ers but they have greater re-i sponsibilities to shoulder after | the Soviets have withdrawn. To | be able to fulfil their complex ( military and political tasks.
| they need to re-organize them-| selves so that all people involved \ in the struggle could have a say | in the policies effecting their lives.
      Before the Soviet Invasion,
| governments did not permit ex-I istence of legal political parties.
S There were movements, mainly in the university campus, struggling for change according to their political philosophy. The roots of these movements were not deep inside the society.
      The Islamic movement was a product of that situation, Until 1973. when the first Communist coup took place, it remained a relatively intellectual-dominated company. Although the movement had started to organize itself, it was never given the opportunity to carry out the job in a peaceful afmoshphere.
      The Communists oppressive rule and then the Soviet invasion changed the situation. The people faced the options between total domination by the Soviets and armed struggle for the liberation of their country.
      The Islamic movement seized this opportunity to lead the general uprising. This way the movement became the center of the hopes of Afghans who wanted to struggle for their f reedom.
      To help the armed struggle the Mujahideen parties, mainly in Peshawar. Pakistan, created administrative structures. The ___________________________ .
  people who filled the space were mainly from the Intel lectu&is who had sought refuge earlier than others. At that time that was the right thing to do.
     As the time passed, the parties played a key role in channelling resources to the
iems of the refugees and the Mujahideen have brought strong criticism from the commanders, the Mujahideen and common men j in Afghanistan.
    This problem and also the participation of ail people involved in jehad press the party
Mujahideen and representing the leaders to introduce a change.
armed struggle outside Afghanistan. The bureaucratic structure of the parties expand-. ed in exile, Despite the quantit- I policies and alive changes the parties were 1 these the still run by the old methods and decisions were made by the same early-comers.
                                                                                        The armed struggle spread all ever the country and almost
I use Jamiat as an example to clarify the point, jaml at is important because of its moderate implementation of areas it controls. When jami'at is named, important commanders like late labihullah Khan, Ismael Khan and Masood come to the mind of the listener. These people have
all the Mujahideen became affiH- I Sf«n importance to their parties
                              j by their good work. They have not only built a strong military structure in their respective areas, but have created exemplary civil administration in the areas they control. There are tens of other commanders in Jami&t and all other Resistance parties who have contributed in similar
                                   These people do not have any legal means to influence the policy-making of their parties. No doubt the party leaders are in contact with them and take into account their interest but that is not enough. They should be given a chance to play a positive role In their own parties.
                                   Involvement of these commanders will give the parties a new life. These people are not just soldiers. They are the best politicians who have worked successfully with their people. They are respected leaders in ibeir areas nos because they have power, but because they have conquered the hearts of thousands of
                                                                                          Turn to page (6 )
                   Commanders' involvement give the parties a new life. These people are not just soldiers. They are the best politicians who have worked successfully with their people.
I ated to one party or the other. The parties could not remain selective in choosing people as their members because their role was extended from.a political party to a kind of government I dealing with all aspects of people's life on the top of all the armed struggle.
     The Resistance structure inside the country evolved and became mature- In some areas councils of elders, councils of the commanders, councils of Ulama( religious scholars) were formed to assist the organization in the area of decision-making. But these developments have net been reflected in the "party structure in exile.
     The office bearers of the parties have failed to move along with development of the war. Their behavior towards the prob-
                                                                                                                             —I
AFSHANewe Vol 4, Nq.21, November 1,1988, Page 6
 From the diary of Jehad    Part ~5
 Commander Masood talks about his
    MEETING Commander Masood its not only important because of he is ariose friend but because he usually provides convincing answers to the questions facing the Res istance.
    Alter the Soviets started to withdraw their troops, the main questions were; What were the Mufahidmrs strategy? How soon would the Mujahideen defeat the Communist regime? and what tactics would he used?
    I had gone to the valley to find accurate answers to the above questions, 1 met Masood in Ba2&r&k and found him physically fit and in good morale*
    f started to work with Masood in 1974. in 1975 participated u\ an abortive attempt against President Dauod. From 1975 to 197-S we lived in exile with little to do. The coup of I97& changed the situation and Masood returned to Afghanistan in 1979. He started to resist the Communists with few guns and limited number of friends. I have had the honor of helping him in his great $ot>.
    To help jamiat, f was posted in Peshawar in 19S3. Since then I have been visiting Masood each year to ask his opinion about the development of the war, I should say that each year Masood seemed more mature than the previous years and he moving towards his aims slowly hut steadiiy,
    Masood believed th*E signing the Geneva accords had put the MuiahMeen in an awkward political position. The Communist regime in Kabul has gained some son of legitimacy. If the regime can hold the power lor sometime after the Soviets wi thdrawal, 11 will score more political gains and the Resistance will be isolated .Therefore the short-term war suits the Mujahideen,
    Masood said that the withdrawal of Soviet troops has pushed the Mujahideen from a defensive phase to an offensive one which requires suitable or-
                    plans
 ganiza&ion, enough resources and proper tactics.
    According to him the war will be fought to capture the large cities and big enemy bases. To do the fob efficiently and with little casualties, formation of a guerrilla army was necessary.
    Masood has been planning for the final phase of the war since a long time. Creation of mountainous bases, formation of combat, mobile and central units were all preparatory steps for the formation of guerrilla army at the right time,
    Masood told me that the critical time of the Afghan struggle would start when the Soviets have left Afghanistan, The Resistance should stake use of the withdrawal time to prepare itself for the strategic offensive phase. In the meantime, he believed that war should foe escalated gradually so that the newly trained troops were exercised, more re-
sources were captured and enough momentum was built to move to the new phase.
    About the final engagement against the enemy Masood was thinking of a three-pronged attack; supply lines of the enemy should be cut, underground cells of the Resistance inside the cities launch subversive activities, and finally a frontal attack could bring the enemy to its knees.
    Commander Masood felt the need for cooperation between all the Mujahideen to win the war, but believed that the responsibility of the final attack against the major targets would fall on the shoulders of some, not all commanders.
    Therefore, he gives great importance to the political understandings between different parties in the Resistance and the field commanders,
    Masood having enough exper-
                                                                                          Turn to page ( 8 )
       Parties need el ecti ons
From Page (5)
 Afghans.
    The way to involve all section of Afghans in the political process effecting their future is in-ter-party elections. Elected representatives of the people In the decision-making positions strengthen the parties and make them accountable to the people.
     The members of the central committees and executive committees who run the day-to-day affairs of the parties in exile are those who left the country nine years ago and most,of them have no touch with the realities of the situation inside the country. One cannot doubt the sincere wishes of them to serve their people, bur. It is also a fact that
 they speak on behalf of those whom they do not know.
    Now that the Soviets have started to leave and there is strong hope that the country will be liberated, it Is the best time to broaden the base of the parties by introducing elections in all1 party levels.
    Holding elections within the parties will not effect the position of the leaders of the parties, instead, it will give the leaders working groups who are representing people .
     Broadening the base of the parties will strengthen these organizations and will prove useful in introducing democratic institutions In the country- Q
                                           ’                    ■' -   t
                                      AFSHANews VqI 4, No 21, November 1,1988, Page 7 1
   Communists to be blamed for civilian losses in cities
     ROCKET attacks against the Soviets, Kabul regime in the cities are being criticized! by international media because of the reported civilian casualties. The Mujahideen try to avoid civilian casualties but there are practical difficulties.
     The attack against the enemy targets in the cities, usually in the form of rocket firing, is reported mainly by the Soviets and regime media,
     Most of the incidents reported by the international media are taken from these two sources. Communists know that death of civilian, especially women and children and destruction of hospitals, schools and mosques, will earn sympathy for the victims. This is the reason for branding everything civilian.
     In reality the situation is more complicated than generally perceived. For example, Kabul the capita! of the country' is divided into different parts. In some parts only high-ranking military and civilian officers of the regime have their residential quarters and offices. For example a newly-built colony called Macro Rayon houses all KHAD and party offices. This area is a major target of the Mujahideen attack,
     Two weeks ago the Communists reported racket attacks on a bus station, I watched the film on Television and recognized the area to be Macro Rayon.
     The other problem is the presence of military Installations near the residential areas. Oil depots of the enemy are located inside the city. Mortar fired on the oil depots could fall a few meters away and hit civilians.
     Id all military bases there are family quarters which house a large number of women and
 By Abdul Wall
 children of the regime and Russian officers. If the base is attacked it is possible that those civilians may get hurt, not because they are the target but they' are within the target.
    There are other problems as well which makes the situation more complicated. Rivalries among the Communists themselves can be responsible for firing Into the residential areas of Khalq and Parcham. the factions trying to embarrass each other. In Kabul a large number of people believe that the rockets fired into residential areas come from the Soviets and regime bases and often from a close range located within the defensive perimeter of the city. They believe that Communists themselves are responsible for the attacks and KHAD, regime's secret police should not be ignored.
    To create news to defame the Resistance. KHAD will not hesitate a moment to resort to dirty subversive activities. Robbery along the highways with civilian clothes is a common tactic of KHAD to defame the Mujahideen. Even KHAD has carded out rocket attacks against Russian territory to incite Soviets to launch retaliatory attacks against the Mujahideen,
    For example, KHAD agents fired a few rockets inside the Soviet Union from Imam Sahib District along the border in January 19S7, The Soviets retaliated by heavy bombing of the area and large-scale commando action in which about 100 civilians were killed and a large number of villages were razed to the ground,
    Knowing the importance of publicity, Najib and his KGB-trained secret police wifi not hesitate to committ any crime. The Resistance is fully aware of
 j the importance of the continued j support of the people to the j cause. It wifi never do anything to jeopardize that support or harm innocent people.
      One can not rule out the possibilities of hitting seme non-mHilary target, due to human error or inaccuracy of the weapons. No intentional attack of the civilian targets inside the cities is part of the Mujahideen plan.
      Prof. Rafetai discussed this issue with the Jam far commanders from Kabul and Parwan provinces in Psnjshlr valley and gave them special instructions to take every precaution to insure safety of the civilians living in the cities.
      Having all that in mind, one should realize that Soviets are still in Afghanistan and the imposed Communist regime is still In power. The war of the liberation must continue. These are the Soviets and the Communists who use civilian populations as hostages to protect themselves.
      The Soviets and the regime are responsible for establishing military installations inside the residential quarters.
      No doubt the war against the military targets will continue. It is safer for the civilian population to leave the areas close to | the military installations. It j would be difficult for them but | this is the only way to avoid j casualties.
 \ If there are ways of defeating j the enemy without firing guns \ and rockets, the Resistance un-! doubtedly would have adopted j that way, but such a way has not been found yet. j The only option remaining for the Resistance is armed struggle, therefore, the civilian population in the cities should adjust themselves to the developments to avoid casualties, fj
AFGHANcws Vol 4, No 21, November 1,1988, Page 8
 Vorontsov comes to save Editorial
                        communist regime
    SOVIETS appointed one of ! their high-rankIng diplomats as \ Ambassador to Kabul, This could ) bo preparation for a new pel Hi- | ca! offensive,                  j
    Youli Vorontsov, the First t Deputy of the USSR Foreign j Ministry has been appointed for j the [oh,                        i
    Vorontsov lias worked as [ USSR Ambassador in Delhi and j Paris. He also has worked as a { member of USSR mission in New ! York,                           J
    The appointment of such an j experienced and high-ranking | diplomat to Kabul indicates Kremlin s strong will to influence the political developments in post-withdrawal period.
    So far, he hm not proposed any new program for the political solution of Afghanistan problem hut observers believe that he must have as extensive political program
    In the meantime the meeting ef the Central Committee of the FDPA ended in Kabul without any significant decisions, Najife, the head of the party, attacked his rivals In the party for sabotaging the so-called National Reconciliation',
    The head of the Soviet-backed regime stressed the need for storing feed in the cities and preparing for a long war. He also emphasized security of trans-pertatiofi routes and talked of difficulties in South Saiaag, the main Highway connecting Kabul to the Soviet border,
    Kabul regime also tried to put up an Islamic face by inviting "Islamic delegations'’ to participate in an 'international j Islamic Conference in Kabul The majority of the delegations came from Islamic organizations j of Communist countrm or so- j called Arab radical states. The delegations passed resolution endorsing the National Reconciliation program’ of the regime,
    Najlfc told the gathering he was ready to speak with the op-
position anywhere in the world and proposed Mecca, the Holy City in Saudi Arabia, a suitable place for such talks.
    Prof. Sabbani, the leader of the Mujahideen Alliance rejected holding any talks with the Kabul regime anywhere at any time.
    The Mufahideen believe that direct talks wish the Soviets is the proper way for finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan, Anything short than that will net satisfy them,
It is not clear If the new Soviet ambassador has brought such a message, D
From page (4)
    Even if the $600 million was unconditional. It is like a drop in the ocean compared to the losses the Soviets have inflicted on Afghanistan. What Afghans want from the Soviets Is not "Humanitarian Assistance ’ but stopping interference in the affairs of Afghanistan, ceasing bombing the villages and towns, defusing millions of mines, withdrawing their invading forces in the shortest possible time, and abstaining from helping the illegal and non-representative regime of Kabul, []
Masood talks about his plans
                         From Page i 6;
 ience in the war did not think that the Mujahideen had an my task in front of them. He was saving that the Communists have had ten years experience In war and unlimited amounts of arms and ammunition, He thought that it was necessary for the Resistance to prepare well and take every measure to win the war in the shortest possible time.
    Besides military preparations, Masood told me about his reconstruction programs, Engineers, doctors and writers have started to leave their jobs in the Communist government to help Masood in the impiementa-tioa of his programs. Extension of roads, building of bridges and revival of agriculture had begun. He was waiting for funds from humanitarian agencies to continue with the program,
    Masood Is an extremely busy person and his mobile way of life puts an extra burden on him. Despite all that, be is relaxed and friendly.
    After spending more than 20 hours of talking to him I had found answers te Questions which I had in mind, I came out with a high morale and was hopeful about the freedom of
 Afghanistan but also knew that Afghans still have difficult days ahead. The task of liberation is indeed a great lob. hut establishing a stable political system based on the aspiration of Afghan people and reconstruction of Afghanistan must be a bigger job, □
 Five envoys meet Alliance leader
    AMBASSADORS of five countries met the current Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance and discussed the current military and political developments in Afghanistan.
    Prof, Rafcbam met the US Ambassador at the Alliance headquarters on October 19,
    In the same week. Prof. Rabbani met the Ambassadors of France, Egypt and Tunisia in Islamabad, In these meetings, Prof, Ra&hani talked about the Russian’s political maneuvers to prevent International support to the Mujahideen by proposing the idea of a broad-based government including the Communists,
    He also met the British Ambassador in the Alliance headquarters o« October 26.Q
 I t
 I
 t
■ Pubis %h$4-; ftetia&tiiy' ::■ ;ijiM4d:;                 : -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  \*i
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r i ',*!

     g i 7 : I i_1
Vot 4. No 22
: * r > * ' ' - 1 I 1 f * 1 1 * » ■ < S
 r,i!,J»gagg*g J & : ■* r -f j * I
November 15*1988
war
save Kabul regime
to
   j   WHEN Moscow appointed a
    new Ambassador to Kabul, the I world was expecting diplomatic | Initiatives, hut he brought with j him new sophisticated weapons.
 ■ j escalation of the war and the hm ! news of the suspension of Soviet j troops withdrawal from [ Afghanistan,
   j   The Soviet Union has sta-
   | tioned 30 Mig-27 planes in I Shind&nd Air base in the West of I the country to fee used against | the Mujahideen Jbey also have j used TU-26 Backfire ftlgh-\ altitude bombers against the j Mujahideen in Kandahar, The I Soviets have also intensif ied the
 , j use of SU-2* ground attack jet ! against the Mmahideea.
   ! Last week the Soviets and the | Kabul regime confirmed tfeofoy-I mem and use of SS* I missiles.
 -  | These missiles which carry a
   j warhead of 1100 pound have a | range of several hundred | kilometers,
   i The final step was the sus-| pension of the withdrawal of the [ remaining Soviet troops from I Afghanistan.
   | The Soviets had promised to ) withdraw all of their troops not I later than February 15. I9S9, j After completion of the first j phase they were supposed to re-5 sume ihe withdrawal of their j troops in .November hut a j spokesman of the Soviet I Government announced the sus-J pension of the withdrawal, j Soviets have said the reason j for the suspension is the 'mili-1 tary and political situation* in
 -  | Afghanistan,
 | It is believed that the late j victories of the Mujahideen, low I morale of the Communist forces I and disunity among the ! Communist factions are the rea-[ sons for the decision of the j Soviet Union.
 j These steps have brought the | sharp reaction of the countries j concerned. The withdrawal sus-j pension was announced hours af-j ter a unanimous resolution was j passed by the UN calling for the J completion of the withdrawal of | the foreign troops within the | frame work of the Geneva ac-j cords, The soviet Union had vot-I ed for the resolution, j Deployment of the sophisticated weapons and offensive at-j tacks launched by the Soviets | against the Mujahideen are
 i against the assurances the | Soviets had given to other slgna-| tories of- the Geneva accords, j They had said they would act in I sell-defense and not indulge in offensive measures against the Mujahideen:                      i
     The long-range rockets could j also pose serious threat to the 1 cities in Pakistan and the refu- J gee camps, The Soviets have de- ) used use of these rockets against j targets inside Pakistan hut this j country has been a main targe! of | Soviet-sponsored terrorism and j | as r and ground viol aliens.   !
 i The Mujahideen believe that j 1 the Scud-B missile could fee j [ problem against the liberated j j towns. Their effectiveness     j
 j against the Mujahideen who are 1 j still fighting a mobile fighting is j ! doubted. □                     |
! Alliance leader seeks world I
! |
! support for his cause i
                   calling for the withdrawal of foreign (Soviet) troops and the
 j A delegation oi the Afghan j Muiahdjdeen headed by the cur-| rent chairman of the Alliance j' left for New York on the eve of | the General Assembly s session | on Afghanistan to teU the world j body and public about the j Mujahideen positions on the is-\ sue and developments after gign-| ing ol the Geneva Accords,
 1   The delegsrfoa which was
 j headed fey Prof, Rasfeani left | Islamabad an October 31. . j Since l$30, the UN General j Assembly has debated the ; Afghan issue in its annual meet-\ mgs and tos-pasteed resolutions
  right of Afghans to determine their future. This year's resolution was an unanimous one, calling for the completion of the Soviet troops withdrawal and formation of a broad-fease4 government in Afghanistan.
     About the unanimous resolution. the chairman of the Alliance said that the the Mujahideen accept the idea of the l formation of a bread-based gov- j j eminent but are rnt ready to as- j j lew participation of communists, j
 I Turn to page ( 5 ) |
 _______„______________________   i
                  AFGHANews Vo! 4. No 22, November 15«page 2 ■ j
                  —.— -------------------*---— ------------1
                                        ■                 j
11     TSi  
I      News
[
j From the battleields
it       --          .
    Salang highway
    THE Mujahideen from jam!'at under the eemmaml of the i Supervisory Council af the North | j tm launched a series of attacks j I against the enemy convoys along j | the Salary highway tor the pur-| pose of blocking the read in the [ face of the enemy. The operations j which started on November the j j sixth are sail continuing and j | the md is closed. The following ! j are the accounts of some of the j j operations:                    j
I The Mujahideen under the       i
j command of Khali! Khan de-     j
i strayed two enemy tanks in     j
j Tang! TasluaergMfi is Samangan j j province m Hovemher fourr      j
| On sixth of November, 35       i
j tanks aad trucks of the enemy  [
| were destroyed in the same area, j j The next day.- 1 ? tanks and j j trucks he longing to the enemy j
  were set on fire. The Mujahideen I | lost five men in this operation, I j Fighting still continues in this j j section of the highway,       j
| The report is si lent about the j I casualties of the enemy and does j I fist say whether the attacked j j convoys belonged to the Soviets I j or the communist regime.       i
j The Soviet forces in           !
I Samaagan abandoned their post I a?. Kaik Tapa on November- the ! fifth. The Mujahideen ambushed the enemy convoy as a result of which three truck were destroyed-. The next- day The      I
  Mujahideen destroyed two tanks J on the highway and 22 tanks and j trucks in R&fe&iak area. In these | operations 20 Soviet soldiers i
were killed,
   Ssmangan is located on the highway between Bagftiaa and Haim&n port on the Soviet border,
   The Mujahideen in Ferwan attacked an enemy convoy near Charikar, the provincial capital ot Ferwan located 50 Kilometers North of Kabul, destroying 20 tanks and trucks and killing an unknown number of the enemy troops on the fifth of November, On the same day the police head-Quarters and a government building were destroyed by exploding time bombs planted w the Mujahideen,
   la South the Mujahideen set on fire 10 tanks ana trucks of the enemy. Fighting is sull continuing and the road is closed,
                                        Nangarhar
                                         province
    The Mujahideen liberated Toorkhftfl) border area from the DM forces taking prisoner IS5 soldiers* capturing U8 light weapons including one T-5^ Russian fafik and killing five soldiers on 1st and 2nd of November,
    The Mujahideen started their operation by first attacking the DM border administrative headquarters in Bahka area where they captured five posts situated along the main road 15 kilometers from Daftka to the main Toorkhata border posts.
    From the 2nd to 3rd of November the Mujahideen carried out their operation on me
  Toorkham area bordering           j
  Pakistan and captured ail the     j
 | border posts and blocked the ! i main road leading to Jalalabad, 1 j The weapons fell into the j | hands of the Mujahideen i'nclud- ! j ed five 2PU anti aircraft guns, |
 I one BschK. 30 K&fashiafcov ri- i I ties, one truck, one RPG-? and j j five Gurlnov machine guns and [ j two %2mm mortars. Four tanks j j were destroyed and large amount j | of foodstuff and ammunition f | were captured,
 | FaH of Tdorkham causes a lot I j of problems for the communist I | regime. The transit Hite which | was taking goods from Pakistan I eo Afghanistan is now blocked j and this will cause shortages of j some commodities in the- cities controlled by the regime,
 | Kabul province                   |
 l           ,                      :
 i                                  [
 j  The Muj&ft \deen f rare jami at j
 | attacked BRA forces along the    j
 ! Kabul "Jalalabad highway cap-| luring five security posts and ] seizing \ 2 Ka lash ink ov rifles, j one 2P!i anti-aircraft gun, two | mortars ana five Binoculars on ! the October 25 Oh                 j
 J The operation also led to the j j blockade of the Highway to the    1
 j traffic for sometime,            I
 | Two days Utter, the              \
 ] Mujahideen under the command | of Abd ul Qayocm destroyed the [ power transmission lines in j SorooM which resulted in the J power cut in city of Kabul,
 f
 f
 I Ghazni province
 j
 I The Mujahideen from Jsmi &E j fired rockets into KHAB posts, S Airfield and security posts in      j
  the- provincial capital as a result i of which 10 soldiers and offi-    j
 } ce» were killed , five others    j
 j were wounded and the Radar       1
 j system of the Airfield was dam- j } aged on the f $th of October,     I
     The operation was carried      !
  out under the command of          j
 | Mohammad Anwar, jam!'at com-     j
 i m&iidef in Ghazni.
 I                                  [
 i                                  i
 i
 !                                  I
                                                                                                                  j
                                                                                           Turn to page ( 3 ) j
   £l>
   DC
   a
   *3c -SC* &
   wS
   u
   jD
   a
   a*
   S:
   o
   2;
   fs«
   fM
   o
   XT
   3
   [>
   w
   ?*
   <u
   2;
   as
   o
   Ci,
   <
                                                                        m
                                                                       T3
                                                                                                            a?
                                                                                                           ■■H
                                                                                                            a>
                                                                                                             i
                                                                                                            OS
                                                                                                           Xi
                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                            rf*“8
 a
 o
                                                                                                            X*
                                                                                                            m
 *
                                                                                                            <i>
                                                                                                           2;
AFGHANIS Vol 4, No 22. November 13*1988, page 4
   i t i i
   : ! t i
AFGHANews
PO Box 264, Peshawar "Pakistan Tel: 41381
                        Backfires, Scud-Bs unable to solve Afghan issue on Russian terms
    THE late Sevier Union1 s decisions to send sophisticated weakens to Afghanistan and suspend withdrawal of troops hm increased ten- j sion there and has created double about the stated desire of the I Soviets to disengage themselves from the war in Afghanistan,
    The past few week's have been a witness to an increased aggros i sive mode of the Soviet approach to the problem of Afghanistan, | Thirty Mig-2? planes were sent to Shindand Air base in the west: of the country. Several parts of Afghanistan were bombed bv TU-26 high-altitude bombers and a large number of SB-24 ground attack lets have been deployed against the Mujahideen, Scyd-B missiles, which have a range of several hundred Kilometers, have been deployed and used.-
    All these took place when the UN General Assembly was preparing to pass a consensus resolution calling for the completion of the withdrawal of foreign {Soviet* troops from Afghanistan and the right of Afghans to determine their future free from outside pressure,
    A few hours after the UN resolution, for which the Soviet Union also voted, was passed, that country announced suspension of the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, This was a kind of cruel deception the Soviet leadership played on the world body'of the UN, The above- moves by she- Soviets are in contradiction with letter and spirit of the Geneva accords which they signed on March 14, According to the agreement Soviets had premised to withdraw ail their troops not later than 15? February 198$. With suspension of the withdrawal it will he difficult for the Soviets to meet the
                               Norwegians continue to support Afghans
   THE Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan in its yearly session held on September 1? pledged to continue support for Afghan people,
   The meeting which was discussing the role of the Committee after the signing of the Geneva accords reached the decision that continuation of support for Afghan people was more important than ever.
   The meeting also called for a complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan as well as the right of Afghan people to determine their future.
   The Norwegian Committee lor Afghanistan has played an important role in mobilizing public opinion lor the Afghan cause in Norway.
   It has also been channeling humanitarian assistance to the war-affected Afghans inside the country, Q
                               Afghans set, walk on blades
  deadline,
I They had also assured Pakistan and the US that the Soviet- forces | will not launch offensives against the Resistance and only act In self-defense.
i Bombing of Kundue and Kandahar by long-range planes flown from the Soviet territory and bringing new weapons are violations of)
! the accords they signed,                                           !
j The reasons for the change of the Soviet approach to the prob-| lems are due to the latest victories of the Mujahideen and the poor s performance of the Communist regime, j Once more, these developments have made it clear that the Soviets cannot be trusted with their promises. It also shows that the cosmotic changes in the Soviet Union have not changed its aggressive nature and policy o! interference in the affairs of small countries. Thanks God, Afghans have no illusions about the criminal nature j of the Soviet leadership, If the previous leaders of the Kremlin were j ! using TU-16 high-altitude bombers, Gorbachev is using Backfires i 1 and Scucs-B missiles to impose its wishes on the people of         j
I Afghanistan.                                Turn to page ( 5 ) I
i_____________________________________________________________________
                                                                                THE Mujahideen captured j ft military vehicle carrying | rotor blades of helicopters to j ■ Kabul on* month ego. I According to mta&sses, I to trm& wes carrying 24 j blades of helicopter from j lussia to Khewift Rawawh I Airfield in Kabul ■ j The truck ws# sutured ( fc?QariHohifrfeutta& Jami’at j Commander in Qerabagh dis- I trist, The Mujahideen used | four Made to make chairs is j toir haad^uartarg and the j rest a bridge on to canal of j to ■village. Q i
                                                                                                              J
                                                                                                              f
--------------------------------------------’—1
AFGHANI'S Vol 4, No 22, November 15.1988, page 5 I
1
            Alliance leader seeks world support
                         Editria!
rrono page
    Prof. Bab baa i met ihe UN Secretary General, Javier Peres de a Cuellar and discussed with, him the position of me Mwiahideen on the issue, This was the first time that the UN Secretary General received a Mujahideen leader to discuss with him the problem of Afghanistan, At the end of meeting he told the reporters that the Mujahideen will cooperate with UN peace efforts.
    Tails fug to tine media was part of Prof, Rafehans § program, In as Int erview with Visrewt, the International television news, he said the Soviets were in contravention ol the Geneva accords m a withdrawal and were violating international law and ethics. Prof, Rabtani later new to Washington to talk with American officials, He met Michel A r mac os r. Under Secretary for Political Affairs in the State Department who has been involved in negotiations which ted to signing of the Geneva Accords,
    The Chairman of the Mujahideen Alliance met Secretary George Sftuira on November 9, On the same day he
 met President Ronald Reagan in the White House and discussed with him the latest situation. President Reagan re-affirmed Its support for the cause of Afghans who are fighting to liberate their country and determine their future.
    The Chairman of the Alliance also met George Bush, the newly elected president ef the United states ef America in the White House, Mr Bush assured the Mujahideen leader of the continued support of US to the cause of Afghans.
    Prof, Rabhani met the Secretary of the Organisation of Is 1 amic Conference, Sharsffuddia Pirgada, in New1 Vsi K and told him about the developments in Afghanistan, Mr, Fimtiaassures the Mujahideen leader of support of his organisation for the freedom cause ol Afghans.
    Prof R&hbam was supposed to meet Mujahideen supporters in the congress.
    The Mujahideen delegation win also meet members of Afghan community in America and hold talks with Islamic organisations in that, country. H
Mujahideen form elected council
   THE Supreme Council of the Mujahideen Alliance has approved a bill for formation of a representative legislative S hoar a, Shoora will appoint the head of the state and vote for the interim government of Mujahideen,
     Due w the complexities of the situation in Afghanistan it has been tried co mix traditional ways of electing representatives through using loeai councils with che use of ballot box and secret voting when the situation , permits,
     According to the bill, each ■ district and sub-district will senes one representative to the Islamic Council ef Afghanistan. There are 2i 6 districts and GO
                                                   From page (4)
                   ~' ~         i
     Afghan Resistance is fully prepared to meet the enemy's    i
 challenges, introduction of new weapons and prolonging the occupation for a few more months cannot win the Soviets a great deal, A regime which could not be Imposed by 150 thousand soldiers in £ years cannot be imposed by half of that number in a few more months,
     The world community who has played a Key role in putting moral and diplomatic pressures on the Soviets ought to raise its voice against the Soviets for their escalation of the war, and continuation of the interference in the aff airs of Afghanistan ami for violating International law, Q
 sub-districts in Afghanistan.
     Each party of the Mujahideen can introduce 10 people to the council and m unspecified number of scholars and experts could ftiso be introduced to the council fey consensus or ail the political parties. Elections will be supervised by the central election commission chosen by the parties and the centra! commission will form local commissions to supervise the election process in different districts.
     The Shoora will choose the head of the state for Afghanistan and give vote of confidence to the government appointed by the head of the state,
     In this program m attempt has been made to form a broad-based Shoora as a first step towards formation of a bread-based government,
     it is believed that there are practical difficulties on the way of holding elections in this manner due to the prevailing war situation m me country.
     Another problem arises from the absence of Shift parties, They have not been involved in the process so far, Their involvement based on a reasonable formula could give more weight to idea of a broad-teed government, P]
AFGHANews Vol 4t No 22, November 15.1988, page 6 j
1 i
! f
Opinion by:
Mohammad Es'haq
    Mujahideen need more Stinger missiles
 j sN the hew phase of the war | the Soviet-hacked regime in I Kabul will make extensive use of | its air lorce du6 there are strong | possibilities that the Soviets [ will launch cross-border air i raids against the Mujahideen. To j deal with the situation the | Resistance needs an effective air | defense system, j After the Soviets have with-! drawn their iroops the couatry-| wide offensive against the com-| munist regime will scan, This I win mark a new phase in the j m med struggle of the Resistance | with its tfwn specification and I problems*
 | The war ia this phase will he j fought against the major enemy | bases, communication lines and j the cities, A targe number of | forces wilt he used. The war will | &e fought m relatively flat [ ground and the campaigns may I last several day or weeks, The I war in this phase will he fought j along fixed hues,
 |       This way of fighting wftieu
 | will be the mode of operation at | the last stage of the war poses ! man y p no & terns to th e Res is i a nr e, I The major problem will be air I defense,
 | 'Tile air supers, or i t-y of the
 | enemy and inefficient m <ie-| lease always has been a problem | for the Mujahideen,
 1 In the past most of the ca*u-j anies of the Resistance has been | caused by the enemy air force | and it has been responsible for ! the destruction of most of the | villages and towns,
 | The enemy not only rely on I air firepower but heavily de-j pends on air transportation of | equipment and troops, in a j mountainous country like j Afghanistan, the enemy will lose \ control once the air transport j has come to a stand still,
 i
     Knowing all this, the Soviets are training pilots for the communist regime and providing them with more helicopters, jet fighters and transport planes. In other words, the Soviets are preparing the Regime for a long war,
 I Proiongt-ion of the wax' suits the j Soviets and their surrogates in j Kabul
     As far as the air defense capability of the Mujahideen is concerned, i- was very weak in the past and is weak enough a&w to deal with new challenges posed by the Sew lets and the regime A few SAM-7* ground-to-air missiles that the Mujahideen had were no match for the Soviet gim-j ships and sophisticated jets,
 | Heavy anti-aircraft guns were | net available and even not suita-I Me for the mobile warfare the | Mujahideen were fighting-j Heavy machine guns are the | standard weapons of the | Mujahideen for air defense but are ineffective against the ar-! mor-p laced helicopters, jets and ! high-fiyiog transport- planes used by the enemy.
     Stinger missile were effective but the number available was so small that it could not provide j effective- protection for the | Res is tan ee and civil! an I population
 j Now that the war is entering | the offensive phase in which a j large number troops will be j used, The regime and Soviet air j forces will pose a serious threat.
 | to the Resistance, In the absence j of the Soviet troops the same type of planes used by them win be j flown by the Soviet-trained com-j man 1st pilots.
 I On the other hand, the I Soviets may launch cross-border air raids against the Mujahideen, They launched such raids | against the Mujahdieen in
 Kunbuz and repeated them in Kandahar.
     Because of the aforementioned facts, the Resistance must posses a strong and effective air defense system. Experience has shown that shoulder-fired heat-seek ing Stinger miss 1 ies have been effectively used by the Resistance with tremendous effect on the morale of the enemy. The Mujahideen need enough of these missiles to defend themselves and their villages and bring the war to a quick end. Q
 Indians retreat before Soviets
    THE Indian government has suspended its airlines flights to Kabul AFP reported.
    The reason for such a decision has been given as "safety baser as" both fur the carrier m4 the passengers, Indies Airlines had severed 'm^kly flights to Kabul, India is the only non-I Cos&fitunist country which I j has close relations with the j t-ot&mmlm regime in Kabul Selhi is the only city to | which a lot of Afghans fly j 1 from Kabul for business, j f&sdiesi purposes and s-ee&~ | inf refuge*              j
    lariier, the Indian gov- ) ©rnmeat closed its co&su- j Mm in Kandahar and ! Jalalabad cm security ffeuadS:
    In the past weiss the Mujahideen attacks on Kabul Airport used for both j military and civilian pur- ! poses, have increased, □ j
AFGHANews Vol 4, No 22, November 15.1988, page
tI
  From thediary
 Short walk around Kabul
                                         By Abdul M&fifc
     Abdul Rshim 1, a I         classmate of  mine
 I ’The h©4 recently been re-: leaded from Puii Cbar^hi j prison in Kabul reached I ^ulbaher, a toim at the I mouth of           vehey  on
 j our frf to Patman .¥e ! reached Oulbahar on Friday i 13 th of October,
     Two days before the | Mujahideen had captured many i DR A posis in the area, They had
 ■ taken *40 prisoner, destroyed
 | two tanks ami seised 26 guns in j this operation the Mujahideen | lost four men and seven others I were wounded,
 j An interesting thing was that j me Russians gave m help to the j DR A post attacked fey the j Mujahideen despite its location | dose to Russian posts | The regime forces were so fu-! rious with the Russians indif-| Terence that they in the course | of the operation fired mortars on I a Russian posts killing a Russian j soldier.
     We passed a newly-captured j DR A post, On the DR A s de-i strayed positions there were I children and elderly busy | searching for useful items and j stuff left behind fey the enemy | forces,
 ■   According to the local peo-
 | ole, bombardments were cons id-I erafely less in the past year ami j the people lived with relative j peace
 I From jahel Serai, we set oil [ with a Mujafeid guide to Sad oil ah I area where we spent the night in j a Mujahideen headquarters fee-j longing to Half Enayatulian, i Jami at commander of Dashti j Par wan, We were warmly re-j reived by the Mujahideen who j were complaining of parry con-j flirts and especially of attacks J by Fateh Mohammad, the j Commands of Hezb Isiami. They | were also complaining about f commander Masocd who, accord-
  ing to them, had given them less help than he had given to the Mujahideen in rhe North,
     The Mujahideen there were brave and fearless. They were fur-hats loose trousers aod grow long hair which will distinguished them easily from the Mujahideen of other -areas. Some of them roam around baref oot as they are accustomed to it. They like having Russian-made K&iasftiofcov rifle better than Chinese ones.
     From Saduiiafe onwards, one has to pass through the areas controlled by the Hrab Islam! which was divided I mo two oaris; Hesfe Khurd Ismail party) and Hezfe Kalan Ung party), Hafi | Abdul Zahir and Pahlawan Abdul j Wahid belong to the small Hezfe j and have cordial relationship j with the Mujahideen from other parties,
     H&ji 2ahir invited us for lunch and gave us good hospital!-1 tv He proved to he well-inf orated, talented t and a good commander. He is not favored by his party because of his good relationships with the Mujahideen from jami at.
      We reached that part of Bagram district which was under the control of Steafaqf an effective Jam Fat commander. We felt that, the Mujahideen and the people In the area liked Sirafaq and his Mujahideen looked well organized, We saw children going to schools.
     Seme Mujahideen accompanied us to Khwsda Malik, close to the road leading to the Bagram Airfield,
      Runmng parallel to Basra® ro-M. there were two pipelines which took fuel tx> the base. We were told that a? nights the Mujahideen and the people make holes in the pipelines and take out drums of oil. Apart from being tomsumed by the Mujahideen bases ana the people, great
J !
j amount of this oil is taken to the | market in Kabul which has pro-j vided a good source of income for j the people in the area,
    We spent the sight in the | Mujahideen’s.headquarters in Qftfftbftgh district- jets were flying frequently but no bombard -merits were heard. Early in the night, some, rockets were fired fey me Mujahideen into Bagrafs Airfield and the Russians retaliated by firing artillery into the j villages,
| As we continued our tourney | towards Bstaiif, we passed the | Kabul-Charikar Highway and I went to a militia pest which was ] on good terms with the ' Mujahideen from jmVat, On seeing us, a militia came to us and after reading the introduction letter written by the jami at commander he gave us a guide to take us to the jami at base in Estalif,
    After two hours ol walk we j reached the beautiful valley of j Estaiii which was a resort for the | holiday makers of Kabul, jami at j was the dominant party in the area, EsEatif has a crowded bazaar with essential commodities People came to this bazaar for shopping from long distances. What I was searching for in the Bazaar could nor be found, that was Estalif potteries which had reputation throughout the country. The Mujahideen commander in Estatif is Soil Rasool, Recently he was appointed by Jam Fat the commander of North of Kabul who will organize the area under the guidance of the Supervisory Council ol the North,
    From Bstaiif we went to Shakardara a district located a few miles from the Northern part ol the city of Kabul,
    Two months before we arrived the area, the Mujahideen attacked the regime's Rocket brigade and
    Turn to page i 8 )
                               AFGHANews Vol 4* No 22, November 13,1988, page 8
Kabul regime facing trans portatlon problems
    THE bead of the regime's public transport who defected tp the Mujahideen advises hitting oil-tankers a&d the pipeline m an effective means of bringing the regime's war machinery to a standstill,
    Colonel Aziz, 5$. who nas been serving as the head of the Communist regime's Public Transport for the past six years, defected to the Mujahideen from jami at sis weeks ago,
    He said to the Afghan News reporter that the job of his department was transportation of essentia) commodities like wheat, sugar, edible oil, fuel oil and other goods,
    Colonel Aziz added that the Mujahideen have been confiscating some of the goods transport* ed fey his company He disclosed that out o! 16000 trucks and $000 hoses registered with the department only 2500 trucks and buses are stiff service sow.
     Mohammad Aziz who wm a transport officer of Afghan army 'l\m studied transportation in the Soviet Union, said that the route which is most frequently used , for transportation of goods is the ’ S&tasg highway.
     ■'In the public transport de-nan meat 66 Soviet advisors were working.. Sixty five of them left after the signing at the Geneva accords" Colonel Asia gala. According to him, the Soviet. Foreign Minister while visiting Kabul paid a visit to she transportation department and told the workers that the Soviets were leaving Afghanistan,
     Colonel Aziz believed that disruption of transportation of food to the cities will effect, millions of those wisp are anti-Soviets and pro-Moiahideen.
     "If the Mujahideen concentrate mi hitting oil-tankers, the war machine of the regime win stop,” he said, [j
Short walk around Kabul
           From Page 1.7)
 captured 650 light weapons, six anti-aircraft heavy machine guns and some mortars.- The Mujahideen from different parties had participated in the operation hut Jami'at had played an important, role.
    In Shakardara,, jami1 at maintains. first position, Heefe In second and Utehsd Islam! (Prof, Sayyaf) the third, Three jami'at commanders. Dr, Khan A a ha, Mohammad Anwar and Faqir Shah toe control over large areas of the district, Shakartiara is probably the only district having received wide destruction in the area.
    The regime forces stationed in Xhair Xfcana Pass fire artillery at- the Mujahideen routes and bases and because of this $0% of the residents of the area have taken refuge in Kabul, The people return now m*.i then to
 look after their apple gardens for which ShftkAfdara Is famous.
     We moved towards Paghman, a town located 20 Kilometers west of the city of Kabul,
     At night we heard sounds of freguem artillery. and during the day witnessed the Russian's bombardments of the town.
     Houses were destroyed but the trees were still green, There were some people living in Paghman and we could also see some livestock. The people of Paghman are brave, We saw 1 it tie beys and girls playing near the ruins of itw houses destroyed the previous day,
     Dara-e-Zargar of Pagftman was heavily mined; The mines were delivered, by rockets fired from the enemy bases in Kabul.
     The Mujahideen parties m Paghman had good relationship with each other. Mullah E&aittHaft. the tel at commander
 j in Paghman h respected by the | people for his bravery and in-| reUigence, The Kabul regime has j tm strong posts on each flanks j of the Paghman valley from where j the Mujahideen's activities are [ monitored. The same night we | reached Paghman, & Soviet rocket [killed a passerby.
     From Paghman we went to I "Kuhnft Xfcumsr area of Maiden j province crossing & pass. We had j mr breakfast in the fe&mr of | Kooii-l-Aahrb where sue could j witness the signs of destruction j when the Russians attacked the | area three years ago. We took a j car to the provincial capital of Mai dan, about 15 Kilometers west of Kabul city, The regime had limited .control over the city, Some months age the Mujahideen liberated the city but It wm recaptured fey the communist forces after a short while.
     After crossing the city we reached Kabul-Kandahar highway which was controlled fey the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen collected a road toil m the highway.
     The two sides of the highway were full of wreckage o! the Soviet tanks and trucks destroyed fey the Mujahideen, After driving for more than one hour on the highway we entered Logs? province.
     The area between Wardafc and Logar was green and men and women were seen working on the j fields, On each side of the road, one could see pile® of potatoes which were ready te fee taken to Kabul.
     In Barak! toan district of Logar, south of the Kabul city, life was cairn. We did net see any signs of the enemy or their planes, There were armed Mujahideen who were roaming around,
     We took a feus from the Baraki R&j&n to Afrehakan where the road ends, We passed fey hundreds of dead animals Including horses, mines and camels hit fey Russian forces in the past. We also passed fey grave of tens of Mujahideen who were killed either during ambushes or fey the communist- forces or air raids. After one day walk we arrived Jali where trucks took m
  to the border. I
u