Vo! 4, No 9
May 1. 1988
                   Refugees’ big rally rejects Geneva deal
    THE AFGHAN Resistance rejected the Geneva accord by convening a meeting in which more than 40,000 people participated.
    The meeting which was held near Peshawar on April 16, was sponsored by the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen, an umbrella organization composed of the seven Resistance parties.
    The meeting passed a resolution rejecting the Geneva accord on the following grounds:
    •    Afghan people were not represented In the talks
    •    The accord did not give the people of Afghanistan the right for self- determination.
    •    The Withdrawal of the Soviet troops is not immediate and unconditional.
    •    There is no guarantee against the re-intervent ion and interference by the Soviet Union.
    •    The accord is against the spirit and letter of the resolutions passed by the UN General Assembly.
    *lt imposes a puppet regime on the people of Afghanistan.
    AH the speakers in the meeting called the Geneva accord unjust and vowed to continue their armed struggle against the puppet regime.
    The Speakers predicted
that the Geneva accord would not bring peace and the return of refugees will not be possible in the face of the continuation ot the war.
   The Geneva accord which was signed on April 14 by Pakistan and the puppet regime and guaranteed by the two super powers allows the Soviets to give all sorts ol aid to the Najib government. The agreement forbids Pakistan from supporting the Resistance and considers it an interference in the affairs of Afghanistan.
   The Resistance leaders who spoke on the occasion believed that the people of Afghanistan would continue their armed struggle even ir they do not receive aid from outside. They foresaw the fall of the regime alter the Soviets have left.
Iraaiaas
oppose
Geneva
  IRAN has said that it will not recognize the Geneva accord which was signed between Pakistan and the Puppet regime in Kabul.
    Iran’s statement said that: ' The signing of an accord with a regime which is not supported by the Afghan people and which is backed by foreign forces, holds no value and is unlawful."
    The statement demands an end to all foreign interference and argues that any accord failing to meet the Afghans right lor self-determination will (alt short of solving the problems in that country.
    Iran is a neighboring country to Afghanistan and hosts more than two million Afghan refugees.
    Iran did not participate in the Geneva talks which were held under the UN auspices.
  Jamiat officer visits Oslo
   A CONFERENCE of all the local branches of the Norwegian committee for Afghanistan was held in Oslo to discuss ways of increasing humanitarian assistance to the needy Afghans after the Geneva accord has been signed.
   Massood Khalili. a Political Officer of Jami at, had been invited by the Committee to talk about the current situation of the war in the conference which was held on April 16,
   He met the Deputy Foreign Minister of Norway and briefed him about the situation in Afghanistan. Khalili also talked in a press conference.
Ar&HANevs Vol4, No 9, May i, 1968, Page 2
Kunar
     THE PUPPET regime evacuated its besieged garrison of Barikoot in Kunar province on April 22.
    An estimated number of 700 DRA soldiers and militiamen were flown out by helicopters along with their heavy weapons.
    The base was under Mujahideen seige for two years and the recent attempts by the regime to resupply it failed when they lost two helicopters. This situation forced the puppets to quit the area.
    Communist families were flown out first on Thursday April 21 which was followed by a complete airlift of soldiers and their arms.
    The fall of Barikoot garrison has made a trip to Asmar and Nooristan short and easy. The enemy also lost one of its bases from which sabuters and terrorists were sent to Pakistan.
    Three Mujahideen parties; jam iat. Hezb Islanii (Khalist and Hezb Islami (Hekmatyar) have a presence in the area.
    In another operation the Mujahideen from Jam 1 at destroyed ten DRA posts and killed dozens of enemy soldiers in Chouki district in an attack which started on March 25.
    An estimated number of 100 enemy troops were either killed or wounded, and more than 20 tanks and trucks
 were destroyed. The Mujahideen lost 6 men while 17 others were injured in the operation.
    The posts were set up two years ago on a Mujahideen supply route through which passed Mujahideen groups from Kunar, Laghman and Nangarhar provinces.
    in retaliation to the Mujahideen attack a joint Russian-DRA reinlorcement was sent to the area. Severe fighting continued for 20 days. The Russians left the area after reestablishing the destroyed posts.
  The Mujahideen attack was led by Commander Tariq.
 Kapisa
     The Mujahideen from Jaai at attacked a military post close to Bagram.
    Seven militias were captured and one killed when the Mujahideen attacked their post close to the main Bagram Airbase on March 6.
    Mujahideen who were led by Commander Shaheen captured eight Kalashinkov rifles.
 Parvan
 A DRA General was killed and ten tanks and trucks were destroyed by the Mujahideen in Totom Daraon April 12.
    A regime military convoy was returning from Ghoorband when it was
 attacked near Puli Matak on the Salang highway. It is believed that a large number of the puppet soldiers were either killed or wounded.
    General Shah Agha. the Commander of a DRA force belonging to the DRA central corp, who was direct ing the operation in Ghoorband, was killed in the ambush.
    The Regime force tried to reinforce their beseiged garrison in Ghoorband but due to tough resistance by the Mujahideen they could not reach their destination and returned back to Kabul.
 Ghazni
     The Mujahideen belonging to different parties attacked the regime's polling stations and killed dozens of enemy soldiers in the city of Ghazni on April 4 to 9.
    As a result of the attacks the regime authorities were forced to cancel the election.
     Najibullah, the puppet regime president has admitted that during the so-called election more than 120 of his men were killed and two planes shot down.
 Kandahar
     In three different operations Mujahideen from Jamj'at in Arghandab district have killed 12 soldiers, took prisoner 15 others and seized 25 Kalashinkov rifles.
     The first attack was against DRA forces on March 26. In this attack, five soldiers were killed, 12 others captured and 16 Kalashinkov rifles were seized. Four Mujahideen were injured in the attack.
     The second operation took place on a DRA post on March 24, in which seven soldiers were killed, four others captured and two Kalashinkov rifles seized.
                                                                                                       The third attack was launched against a DRA
AEGHANews Vol 4, No9, May 1,1960, Page?
   security post which resulted in the killing of some soldiers and officers, capturing seven Kalashinkov rifles and a heavy machine gun.
    Thirteen Mujahideen were injured during the attack.
   Herat
       The Mujahideen led by commander Mohammad Hassan ambushed a ORA column in Baiuch village of Pars! district on March 23. As a result of the ambush 15 soldiers were killed and five others wounded .
      A Mujahideen commander called Ghuiam Sakhi was killed during the operation.
   Uruzgan
   The Mujahideen attacked a DRA newly-established post in Sarchasbma area on March 23. The Mujahideen captured some weapons in the operation. The report is silent about the casualties of the two sides.
   Kunduz
       Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the polling stations in the provincial capital on March six and disrupted the process.
      It is believed an unknown number of communist officers were killed.
       in retaliation, the enemy used long-range artillery from Kunduz airport and Bala Hisar against the villages around the city controlled by the Mujahideen. A number of houses were destroyed and one Mujahid was killed.
      The Mujahideen also attacked an enemy convoy and captured five trucks loaded with about 7 tons of wheat on April 1. The convoy was going from Shair Khan port towards Kabul when it was attacked near AH Abad, seven kilometers from Kunduz city.
      The Mujahideen attacked a
 DRA post and killed six soldiers while capturing some arms and ammunition on March 28. The attack, led by commander Habibuilah. took place in Qasem All village, two kilometers West of the city of Kunduz.
 Faryab
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at launched attacks against communist centers in Maimana city which resulted in the killing of 13 soldiers and wounding of some others. A police station was also destroyed in the fighting on March 20.
    In another incident, the Mujahideen attacked and destroyed two DRA posts killing 20 soldiers and wounding some others. The attack took place in Qara Shafchi near Maimana. The Mujahideen lost two men and three others were wounded In the fighting •
 Yamgan valley undergoes positive changes
   THE COUNCIL of commanders and elders of Yamgan valley has approved the reorganizational work started there.
   To increase the military performance of the resistance the Mujahideen in the area were organized into local combat units who will see training.
   Officials of the financial, judicial and cultural committees were appointed in a meeting of the elders, religious scholars and Mujahideen which was convened for this purpose.
    This has been stated in a letter sent by Aryan Poor, the chief administrator of the area, to Prof. Rabbani leader of Jami'at Istami.
    According to Aryan Poor eight religious schools (Madrassa) have been opened in the valley and 11 other schools will be opened in the near future.
    The Mujahideen have taken measures to secure the transportation routes passing through Reran and Menjan.
    Yamgan valley is a strategically important area which was liberated in 1979. The famous lapis mine located in this valley has had a good effect on the economy of the people and provides a modest financial source for the Mujahideen
    Reran Garrison had created many problems for the people in the area and was posing a threat to the back of the Mujahideen. Last December the garrison was captured.Since the elimination of Keran garrison the refugees from the area have been rehabilitated.
    By the consolidation of Yamgan valley the Mujahideen are able to attack the enemy garrison in Jurm and Baharak.
    Jami'at has appointed Sayed Najmuddin as the military commander of Yamgan and adjoining Vardoj valleys*
                                  Soviets leave two Northern bases
   SOVIETS have withdrawn their troops from Baharak sub-district of Badakhshan and Rustaq district of Takhar provinces. Mujahideen sources reported.
AEGHANews Vol 4.. No 9,
AFGHANews
PO Box 264. Peshawsr-pakistan Tel: 41381
Editorial
May 1.. 1988.. Page 4
wounded Mu/aJiid displays art work
                            Ignoring Mujahideen causes failure
   REHABILITATION of five million Afghan refugees and the reconstruction of their economy needs the involvement of the Afghan Resistance. Any attempt to ignore the effective forces in Afghanistan could lead to the failure of the program and cause great suffering for the people in that war-tom country.
   The Geneva accord envisages the return of the refugees to Afghanistan. Rehabilitation of more them five million refugees will be the biggest operation of its kind ever organised by the United Nations.
   Several countries have shown their readiness in providing proper assistance to the UN organizations to organize the program. This program is facing many practical difficulties because of the complex situation created by the Geneva accord.
   The first problem is the division of the country into two regions. The occupied regions which comprise about 20% of the land and the rest -which is controlled by the Resistance The occupied regions will shrink as the Soviets start to pull their forces out. This process has already started.
   The continuation of the war is another problem.Since the Resistance was not involved in the Geneva accord., the war to overthrow the ille-gal puppet regime in Kabul will continue.
   One of the main hurdles for the UN is the membership of the puppet regime in that Organization. This will force the UN agencies to work through the Kabul regime
   The refugees are part of the Resistance. They will not return because the regime has forgiven their crime 0) of opposing the Soviet invasion but believe in the continuation, of the armed struggle to eliminate the Communist regime. These refugees vent to go to the liberated areas. This means that they have to pass through the front lines separating the two warring sides. .
   The rehabilitation and reconstruction work will take place mostly in the areas where the refugees are destined to go. These areas are controlled by the Resistance.
   All this requires active participation of the Resistance if any positive work that is supposed to be done. If the Resistance is ignored who will provide security for the UN personnel who have to organize
                                                                                        (see next page)
    'I REMEMBER Afghanistan’ was the name of an art piece worked hy a war-wounded Afghan displayed in a painting exhibition opened on March 23 in Geneva.
    Sarmuliah, an Afghan I artist from Jawsjan province was engaged in tfi® armed struggle against the Soviets when he was injured seriously.
    Ke was taken to Switzerland for treatment and as a result he was able to resume painting. He is not able to hold the brush so he tapes it to his index finger.
    Sstmullahs art work in the form of watercolor paintings, was displayed when the last round of
Gene to talks about Afghanistan were in progress. The purpose of the exhibition was to draw the attention of the world to the plight of the people of Afghanistan at a crucial time.
   Samioilah is deternined to continue struggle against the Soviets through creative aT+. work.
AEGHANews Vol 4, No 9, May 1, 1988, Page 5
    Editorial...
  and monitor the programs.
     Any over-simplification of the situation and ignoring the realities on the grounds will lead to the failure of the program and further complication of the situation.
     In the past the UN has ignored the Resistance and has dealt with the puppet regime which is its member but it is not possible to do any practical work in regard to the rehabilitation and reconstruction ■without the involvement of the Resistance.
     ¥e understand the legal complications the UN is j facing in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan, j but rehabilitation end reconstruction is a practical problem which must be planned realistically.
     The UN agencies involved in the program may have 1 their symbolic offices in Kabul but they can not expect to do very much from that side. The only way is to carryout the bulk of operations from Pakistan and Iran where the refugees live and in cooperation with the Resistance parties which are based in these countries.
     The Resistance has developed a civil administration in the liberated areas and these superstructures could play a key role in the rehabilitation and reconstruction programs.
     It should be added that the reconstruction program that we have mentioned is of a development nature to let the peop-le produce their food in their own areas and build simple shelters. The major nationwide reconstruction work has to be postponed up to the fail of the regime and formation of a representative government.
     ¥e advise the UN against any program in which an humanitarian assistance should be used to consolidate the position of the regime in Kabul.
     The donor countries have to make sure that the money they contribute should help the refugees and not be used by the puppets to buy them.
     ¥e hope the UN authorities will not mistake Afghanistan for Geneva. There we were ignored and the deed was done behind our back. Here we are strong and powerful and can not be forgotten.
  Jami’at condemns Abu jehad's murder
   JAMI'AT Island leader has condemned the-assassination ol the Palestinian leader Abujehad.
   In an interview with Afghan News, Professor Rsbbani said; "We condemn the assassination of the PLO military commander who lias been struggling for the liberation of his homeland
for a long time".
   He said that from janu'at's standpoint, the current uprising of Palestinians against the occupatioaist forces of Israel is a new phase in their long straggle. Since the present uprising is taking place under the name of Islam, it represents the true nature of the Palestinian straggle
   THE FOLLOWING telegram was sent by prof. Ptahbani, leader of J ami'at Island. Afghanistan, to President Sis-ol-haq and Prime Minister Mohammad Khan June jo
   "I was extremely shocked and grieved by the enormous casualties caused by fire and explosions in Faisabad on Sunday. Please accept my heartfelt sorrow and sympathies for the tragedy.
   I also offer my condolences to your excellency, to the Pakistan government, to the victims of the tragedy and to all our Pakistani brothers. May Allah Almighty grant patiersce and fortitude to all in such trying moments."
 India closes Jalalabad consulate
  INDIA has closed its consulate in the Eastern city of Jalalabad in the wake of possible Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.
   Indian officials in Kabul have called it a temporary measure due to illness of the consulate staff, hut it is is believed that the decision has been trade due to Indian worries about the safety of the consulate officials after the Soviet troops have left the city which mil considerably weaken the Kabul regime there.
----------------- AFGHANeire  Vol4, No 9, May 1,1986, Page 6
    ”               “    I---         —
I Opinion by Mohammad Es’haq
i . — ... ■■■. ....._. . -
             April coup brought biggest tragedy of modern history
      THE GREAT tragedy of Afghanistan started 10 years ago when a group
   of Coaaaucist officers took pover in Eefcut through a bloody coup. This led the country to a civil tot and then to the Soviet occupation vhich still continues.
      On April 27. Soviet-trained officers of President Daud s army who were members of a pro-Soviet Communist party called People Democratic party of Afghanistan (PDPA) attacked the government establishment. After a i bloody engagement in which j several thousand people, including the President, were killed the Communists took power and Nocr Mohammad Taraki was the leader of the country.
      The PDPA which was a Marxist party closely connected to the Soviet Union was established in I$65, Later the party split into several factions but all of them remained loyal to Moscow, The two main factions were Khalq headed by Taraki and Parcham headed by Babrak Kariaai.
      President Daud who was a member of the royal family and had deep differences , with the rest of his family j started to patronize the ■ Communist factions. The ! Communist officers helped him in 1973 to depose King Zahir and come to power as the f irst president of Afghanistan,
         The Communists did not remain loyal to Daud for a long time. They were using Daud to promote their cause. Dauc developed deep suspicions about the loyalty
 of the Communists to himself and to the country. This led to the communist coup and overthrow of Daud,
    When the Communists took power they tried to impose a series of reforms which were against the religious beliefes of the people. The Communist regime started to purge all its potential enemies. Thousands of religious figures , army and civilian officers, prominent figures, businessmen, students, spiritual leaders and people from different walks of life were imprisoned, tortured, and killed,
    The Communist economic, political and social reforms were affecting every aspect of the people s private and public life. In short, the policy was to impose an alien way of life on the people of Afghanistan who were deeply religious and traditional,
    Open hostilities started in different corners of the country. The Communists started to use armed force against civilians and thousands of Soviet advisors (military and civilian) were brought to help the regime in its struggle against the people of Afghanistan, In 1979 the number of Soviet advisors were estimated at 20,000 men.
    The Communists who were proud of their victory over Daud and confident of Soviet support did not know any limit in their tyranny against the people, Their extreme policies pushed the people to an extreme decision of armed conflict which quickly turned into a national uprising • covering the whole country.
    The army which was fighting the people started to dissolve and most of its arms felt into the hands of the
 people. The countryside was liberated and the provincial capitals came under pressure
    The Communist party could not remain united. Some months after the coup, the Parcham faction headed by Babrak was purged. Babrak, N&jib and some others were exiled and expelled from the party.
    Taraki was killed by Amin, the main architect of the April coup. Amin who was Taraki's deputy become the president, He was a veteran communist and loyal to Moscow.
    The regime s grip on the country was slipping away and the Soviets feared their loss of Influence which they had planned to spread over the past 50 years.
    The Soviet Union made its historical mistake of invading Afghanistan which has continued since 1979, What has happened to the country during the Soviet occupation is very tragic. About one million people were killed , five million became ref ugees and 75S of ail the villages and towns were destroyed.
    The Aighan Communists role in all these years of occupation has been the role of spies and local agents for the occupationist army. Despite the use of the Red Army and spending an enormous amount of money the Soviets failed to build the puppet regime into a reliable force. The puppets have been rejected by the people of Afghanistan,
    Now that Soviets have promised to leave Afghanistan, once more the
 AFGHANevs Voll No9, Mey 1,1998, Page?
 Who s who of Mujahideen
Naik Mohammad Khan
 role of the regime in the future of Afghanistan has turned into a topic which is much discussed.
    Despite Soviet efforts the regime has remained isolated ia Afghanistan.
 The people of Afghanistan consider PDPA a Godless Communist party which ushered the Red Army into the country. Therefore no Resistance party is ready to recognize the existence of the Communist regime.
    The recent move by the puppets to adopt a constitution, hold elections and allow the existence of other parties does not have any real substance in them and does not represent a real change in the nature of the puppets. These steps are part of their political manoeuvre to deceive the people at home and abroad.
    Np.jib's soi? tone and Islamic slogans do not make the people forget his criminal records as the head of KHAD and the head of the puppet regime.
    Communism has no future in Afghanistan. The Communists have to pay the price of the crimes they have committed, if the Red Army could not impose it on the people of Afghanistan there is little chance for them to survive after the Soviets have left. Even the favorite terms they have, gained from the Geneva accord will not save them,
  Naoko displays Aghan photos
 NAGKO Nanjo, a Japanese photo-journal 1st who had travelled to Afghanistan to cover the war, has recently opened his second photo exhibition in Japan.
    The first exhibition was held in December last year in which he displayed 5b photographs he had taken in Afghanistan. Alot of people visited the fire show.
    NAIK MOHAMMAD, 40,
 is Jsai'at chief coffit&s&der in Badghif
 Province,
    He was born in an Aimaa peasant family in a village called Tagab In the center e.‘ Badghis. His father was a farmer who was very keen to send his son to the local school which was three or four hours wait from their village. He used to go to school either walking or using a donkey,
    After completing primary and high school in Badghis. Naik Mohammad went to Herat for further studies in the field of education. He studied three years in Dafuimoalimeen (teacher training institution) where he was trained as a teacher,
    From 1971 - 1979 he served as a teacher and then as principal in the Badghis high school. ‘Even before Soviet invasion. Naik Mohammad warned bis students of the Soviet expansionist desires. He spoke of Tajikestan and other Soviet occupied Islamic lands which were invaded and occupied in the time of Lenin and Stalin," said a Muiahid from Badghis who was his student before the. war.
    After the Communist coup in Kabul. Naik Mohammad formed a group , armed them with the traditional weapons available and attacked the Communist administration in Qalai Naw. He captured government offices and arrested the officers.
    in late 1979, Naik Mohammad joined Jam! at Islam! Afghanistan and was appointed as the commander of the province.
   Having a teaching background, Naik Mohammad shows much interest in the education of Mujahideen and the civilian population.
 He is married and has two children.
 Aimaq nationality
    Aimaq is one of the minority groups living in Afghanistan. They live in the provinces of Ghoor. Badghis and Herat. They are divided into smaller groups like Fairoo* Kohi, Taimani. jamshaidi and Hazara.
   Aimaqs are all Sunni Muslims. Their language is Dari (Afghani Persian! and their cultural background goes back to the Ghorite reign.
   Their economy is based on agriculture and animal husbandry. Aimac people keep good horses for riding and traditional games. Their women make very fine rugs and carpets. They were poor people and the war against the Russians has made them poorer.
   Aimaqs are religious people.They have famous Ulamalreiigious scholars) Like other nationalities, Airnaqs have fully participated in the resistance against the Soviet invaders.They belong to different political organizations but Jaml'ai is a dominant force.
   The Russian tactics have been (a) to create divisions between the minority and rhe majority groups and (b) create disunity among different elans of the minority group. “Islam and love of our motherland has frustrated these Soviet tactics, said. Badghis representative in Peshawar.
AFGHANI'S Vol 4, No 9, May 1,1968, Page 6
Opinion by Dr. Lafraie
             Why are we not excited?
    THE SOMBER mood among the Afghan refugees and Afghan Mujahideen after the Geneva agreement surprises the foreign observers who consider those agreements as a great achievement for the Afghan people. Why are you not excited?*, “Why is the mood so flat?" are the auestions often asked. They sympathise with us, however, once they hear our reasons.
    Undoubtedly, the fact that Russia shows readiness to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan is a great victory for the Afghan Mujahideen. When Russia invaded Afghanistan the world thought it was there to stay forever and could crush any resistance easily. The US president of the time considered the occupation of Afghanistan as a fait accompli and warned the Soviet Union that the US could not tolerate its expansion towards Pakistan.
    The Afghan people, however, proved that they could not. only resist effectively, but also finally force Russia to admit its mistake and get ready to withdraw its troops, at least on the surface.
    Despite their great achievement in forcing a superpower to retreat, the Afghan people are not excited because they have certain concerns about objections to the Geneva talks and agreements. To state them briefly, we reject the Geneva accord because;
    • It puts a cover on Russia's defeat in Afghanistan.
    •    It gives the credit of Russian troop withdrawals to Cordove? and the UN. and not to the Mujahideen who really deserve ft,
    » In a treaty on Afghanistan, the real representative of the Afghan people, that is, the Mujahideen have been denied participation.
    •    The illegal puppet regime in Kabul signed a treaty in the name of Afghanistan.
    » The Geneva accord denies the Afghan people their rights of self-determination,
    •    The text of the agreements is offensive to the Afghan people because it reads as if their just struggle was an interference from outside, it is also offensive because It recognises the changes brought about in Afghanistan by the Russian puppets since April, 1978.
    •    Through Geneva, the Russians want to win international recognition for their puppets in Kabul.
    » By agreeing to withdraw their troops but insisting on retaining their puppets in Kabul and retaining the right tc arm them, the Russians want the war in Afghanistan to continue but its image to change. They want it to look as if the war of liberation has ended and what is happening now is a civil war.
    •    Russia wants to cut international support to the Mujahideen by forcing Pakistan to close their offices in its territory,
    •    Russia wants to create a news blackout on Afghanistan by stopping the entry of foreign journalists to the country through Pakistan. With the Mujahideen offices also closed,
 the world will hear only what the puppets In Kabul and their master want it to.
 • The puppets can not survive without the support of the Red Army. There is the possibility of the Russian troops staying in Afghanistan disguised as advisors and militiamen.
 They will help the regime survive, while Russians will claim it is through its own ability.
                                               Deal saves life of young Mujahid
    A MUJAHID who was sentenced to death by the puppet regime was set free fn exchange for a KHAD officer.
    Zarar Ahmad, 25, a Mujahid newly arrived in Peshawar said during an interview that after spending four months in regime prisons in Parwan province and Puli Charkhi in Kabul he and three other Mujahideen were released on an exchange deal.
    He was captured by the enemy forces on April IS, 1987 ciose to Charikar Ke said; “After 15 days of captivity. Abdu!
 Moomen, a KHaD local Administrator of Parwan was captured by the Mujahideen from Jaroi at. On September 1, 1987,I and two other Mujahideen were exchanged with Moomen, “
    He said that he was sentenced to death by a military court but when the KHAD officer was captured by the Mujahideen and the exchange deal was negociated, the regime dropped the case of his death sentence and instead sentenced him to 20 years imprisonment.
    Zarar has lost two of his brothers in the war.
                                                      AIOHANevs Voi No 9, May 1,1986, Page 9
         Young commander restarts fighting with man-made leg
    He star tea to fight the Communists at the age of 15, four years later he lost one of his legs but continued to fight with an artificial leg. His courage and determination is a source of inspiration for niaQy people in the area.
    Gulhaider. 23, started to fight the Communists in 1979. Soon he gained e reputation for courage in action and good manners and turned into a local folk-hero.
    In I9S3 he lost one of his legs In a mine explosion and many people thought it was
the end of nis career as a fighter.
   jamiat and one of his journalist friends helped to give him an artificial limb in J.E Hanger A Co. Ltd. in Roehampton. London.
   He returned back and resumed fighting. He escaped an incident when he and some of his friends were surrounded by Soviet forces in a side valley in Panjshir, His artificial limb proved strong enough to take him across the mountain to a sale valley.
   In 198-i he was chosen as
 the commander of a side-valley inside Panjshir.
    After five years his artificial limb developed a crack so he come out and went to the same hospital to fix a new limb.
    Gulhaider is happy about the performance of his artificial limb and hopes that other amputees who wish to resume fighting should be given the same type of limbs.
    When asked about his plans after fixing his leg he said: '1 am returning soon. I shall try to take with me other Mujahideen who have had left f ighting for one reason or the other. They have promised to return and resume fighting/
    Gulhaider surprised his hosts in London by demanding attuick service so he could return to the battlefield soon.
    Gulhaider is married and has a child.
         Afghans play traditional Buzkashi
                    game in exile
    AIGRAHS have resumed their popular traditional game of Buzkashi with a greater interest and enthusiasm in exile.
    Buzkashi or goat-dragging’ is a game in which two competing teams of skilled horse riders strive to take the carcass of calf from each other and alter riding to a turning point drop it into the winning circles. The one who seizes the carcass running past the sign and drops it into the circle will be the winner,
    Assad ul laii who is the cbief of Aryanateam said in an interview that Buzkashi is the favorite game of the Northern provinces of Afghanistan where the ground and climate are suitable for
 breeding and training horses.
    In order to preserve and practice their traditional game, the refugees from the mentioned provinces lormed two teams called Aryans and Bafchtar,
    “A council of 30 playing members headed by Haji Ebrahim was also set up to organize and supervise the gaaie, Haji Saaduddin, from Panjshir, was appointed as the teams referee/ said Assaduliah.
    Talking about the r ules of Buzkashi, Hail Saaduddin said that the game is played on a plain of 5 garlbs width and the carcass weight must not exceed 30 pounds.
    The playing ground consists of three circles; the middle one for starting and two others are winning
 circles, on either one of which the carcass is dropped. There is also a flag at a corner, a long distance, from the circles around which a rider must make a turn before riding towards the circles to drop the carcass/ said Haj)
    Concerning Buzkashi horses, he said they are well-bred and great attention is paid to their training when they are young.
    Buzkashi players wish to travel abroad and display their riding skills to the Interested people and inform the outsiders about their culture which Is threatened by the Soviet occupation.
                  IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
 :     Published lortaightly by jami'sit HUmiAfgliasistMi
                    • - - ”m r- J“'v "" ■
 Val 4, No 10                                     May 15. 1988
Soviets kill civilian Af ghans
       AMNESTY International has accused the Soviet Union j and the poppet regime in Kabul of gross violations of human rights in Afghanistan.
       This has been stated in the annual report of Amnesty International which was published two weeks ago.
       The report which is based on interviews with refugees says that the Soviets and puppet troops ! have seized and killed ! several civilians who were [ on their way to Pakistan as refugees.
       The report has also documented cases in which j Soviet and DRA troops have ■ executed civilians without j trials.
       Amnesty International I which is a noble-prize 1 winner, has reported that a j large number of political | prisoners have been i transferred to the army to j light against the Resistance.
 ;         The report on
 ! violations of human rights in J Afghanistan has been sent to the Soviet government and the puppet regime in Kabul. Amnesty has asked Moscow i and Kabul to try those j responsible for the killing
 of civilians and committing other atrocities against them.
   The Resistance has welcomed the report but believes that it does not fully reflect the grave situation existing in the country.
   Amnesty hopes for the improvement of human rights situation in Afghanistan but Resistance sources say that they do not expect any improvement before the Soviet forces have left the country and a truly representative government has been established.
  Mujahideen
                                            forgive
  communists
   COMMANDER Ismael of Herat, asked all DRA forces to surrender to the Mujahideen under an amnesty he announced on March the 14th.
   The decision was taken in a meeting of religious scholars. The U leraas assured them that the lives and properties of the people joining the Mujahideen will be protected.
 JAMI'AT
  LEADER
 SUPPORTS
  POLISH
 WORKERS
  THE AFGHAN Resistance fully sympathizes with the struggle of the Solidarity Movement for better living conditions and more democratic freedoms.
  This was stated in a message sent by Prof.B.Rabbani. Leader of Jami'ai Islami Afghanistan, to the Solidarity Movement in the wake of their new phase of struggle.
  Prof. Rabbani said that the Afghan Resistance has had the moral support of the Solidarity Movement in its struggle from the occupation of the Soviet forces and getting rid of the puppet Communist regime.
   We are about to achieve our total victory very soon and hope your struggle will also achieve its goals, ‘ said Prof. Rabbani.
  It should be mentioned here that the Solidarity’ Movement has been a strong supporter of the Afghan cause and even has sent a good-will delegation to the fighting fronts to pass its solidarity message to the Mujahideen.
  Polish Communities all over the world have shown their solidarity to the Afghan struggle.
AF&HANew Vol 4. So 10. May 15.1989, Pag© 2
    The posts were located around Russian and puppet i bases in Puli Alam, the Provincial capital of Logar.
The attack was launched from two flanks; from Baraki Barak and Kulangar .
   The enemy retaliated by shelling civilian targets in Baraki Barak for three days as a result of which two civilians lost tbeir lives and 23 others were wounded.
Perwan
    The Mujahideen from ,1ams at who were supported by the Mujahideen from Hezb ( Khaiis group) attacked the securtlty posts of the Bagram airbase on April five. Twelve communist soldiers were captured along with their weapons.
                                                                                                                           f
 Heimand
    Sever lighting has continued since mid-April between Mujahideen and Russian-DRA joint forces in Kajaki and Sangeen districts.
   The Russian forces, in retaliation to their loss of soldiers and a senior officer, launched aerial and ground attack on Sangeen district. Mujahideen were able to destroy 18 tanks and kill a number of enemy soldiers In the fighting.
   Mujahideen lost 52 men including Commander Pir Mohammad and 72 others were injured.
   The enemy attack was aimed at driving the       \
 Mujahideen out of Kajaki and Sangeen districts so that they could extend transmission lines from Kajaki Power Station to Lashkargah in Helmand and the city of Kandahar.
   Mujahideen also destroyed three tanks, captured ten rifles on the second of May and lost two men in the operation.
    The lighting still continues in the area and the j
  Takhar
      THE MUJAHIDEEN from Jami at captured 20 militiamen in KhewajaGhar district and seized 20 Kalashinkov rifles on April 22.
    The next day the Mujahideen from Jami at, Hezb ( Khaiis) and Ittehad attacked the enemy militia posts killing 13 militiamen and captureing 35 others. The Mujahideen captured 50 Kalashinkov rifles and two rocket launchers.
  Badakhshan
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured -iOO armed militiamen and killed five others in two villages of Jurat district on April 2nd and seized a great quantity of arms and ammunition.
    The attack on the villages i of Farghamoonj and Kaiw of j Jurm was led by Sayyed j Najmuddin. jamiat commander I of Wardooj and Yamgan : valleys.
    The Mujahideen seized four | Dschk. one 72mm canon, one ; BM-l and fiveGurinov j machine guns in addition to i large number of light weapons
     The Mujahideen lost four ! men and three others were ! wounded.
     Baghlan
      •Soviet troops stationed I in the town of Bano in Andarab
 left the valley me week ago.
   Two militia groups numbering more than 200 men surrendered to the Mujahideen after they lost the Soviets protection.
   The puppet regime has only one garrison in the town which has limited control. •The Mujahideen from Jami at attacked a number of enemy posts in the lower part of Andarab valley, captured one 82mm rifle . three heavy machine guns, two rocket launchers and some food staff on the fourth of April.
   Eighty seven militiamen were taken prisoner by the Mujahideen.
   The Mujahideen lost four men during the operation and (ive others were injured
 Logar
   •A number of Russian-DRA security posts have been withdrawn f rom Kalangar. Padkhwab and Mirabdat areas of Logar province on April 27.
    The areas are located three to five kilometers from the Provincial capital,
   •The Mujahideen from Jami'at led by Commander Fazlullah killed I? communist troops including eight members of KHAD. and ten Russian soldiers and-destroyed ten vehicles in an operation against 13 posts in Baraki Barsk and Kulangar areas on the second of April.
AE&HANws Voi 1 No 10, May 15,1986, Page 3
 I Russians have sent more reinforcements from Shindand.
      Besides the Jami'at Mujahideen, the Mujahideen from Hezb isiami (Khalis), Harakat inqilab isiami and Mahaz-i- Miii also participated in the operations.
 ! Kapisa
       The Mujahideen disrupted DRA celebrations of the communist coup of April in Guibahar textile mills by shelling the enemy positions and blocking the Kabul-Guibahar road on April 26th.
      The enemy was forced to cancel their celebration of the so-called Saur Revolution .
      It is believed that tbe j enemy suffered heavy casualties the details of which are not available. Several residential quarters of the communists were also destroyed.
      The Mujahideen from Shutul, a side valley at the mouth of Panjshir valley killed lour Russians and injured three others on April 26.
      The Mujahideen lost three men in the above operations
   Balkb
       The Mujahideen from j Jami'af attacked an enemy i supply convoy, destroyed one 1 armored car and two trucks | and took prisoner four soldiers j on the nineth of April,
       The convoy was carrying a food supply to Marmoo! area when it came under the Mujabideens attack.
     Ghoor
       In two different operations ! the Mujahideen killed 12 | militiamen, captured 35 j Kalashinkove rifles and two | machine guns. Thirty j militiamen also joined the j Mujahideen.
       The first operation took
 place in Chighchiran area in which 30 militias joined Mujahideen with their weapons on seventh of April.
   The second attack was against a DRA post in Shahrak district on April 1 i. As a resuit. 12 militiamen were killed seven guns were seized.
                                                                                                Two Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
 War dak
    The Mujahideen attacked a DRA polling station in Maidan, the provincial capital, killing 13 soldiers and wounding nine others on the fourth of April.
   Two military vehicles were also set on (ire.
 Herat
    A well-known KHAD commander joined the Mujahideen with three
 mortars, two Dschks, 25 machine guns and two vehicles on the third of April.
   AbduS Khaiiq surrendered to Kaji Wazsr jami'at isiami commander in Karckh district.
 Kandabar
     Under the The Mujahideen s pressure a regime unit of 100 men stationed in Speen Bcoldak areas abandoned its positions on 22 April, Meanwhile, a Russian battalion also left Argbistan district.
   fighting between the Mujahideen and the regime's forces is still continuing in Shoarabak district.
   In another operation on a Russian armoured column, the Mujahideen destroyed two A PCs and killed an unknown number of their crew on April 26.
   The attack took place in Dand Mahalajat at the vicinity of Kandahar city.
Students’
   leader
supports
                                                                              I
    Jehad
  THE President of the Muslim Student’s Society of Nigeria has expressed solidarity vith the Afghan Resistance.
  In a letter to jami'at Isiami. Zikrullah Olakunle Hassan. the National President of the Muslims Student s Society of Algeria, has said that he is expressing his moral support on behalf of j 16 million Muslim students of j Nigeria.
  Zikrullah Hassan says: "whenever tbe heroic struggle j of Afghan Mujahideen comes j to my mind, i am envious of | those brothers and sisters ! who lay their lives for Allah.'j He believes that the defeat j of the Soviet invaders is inevitable and very soon Afghanistan will be free.
  Zikrullah sympathises with the Afghan nation for their prolonged suffering. He regrets that the Muslim world, despite its size, has not been able to defend the Afghans properly.
  He prays for the victory of the Mujahideen and all oppressed people in every corner of the world.
   ALCOHOL KILLS 10,000 IN USSR
 IZVESTIYA reported on March! 1 that more than 10. 000 people died ol poisoning in j the Soviet Union last year as j a result of drinking alcohol surrogates
                                                                               j
 I
 i
 {
 i
 1
 ;
 t
 I
 \
Ar&HANows Veil Ho 10, May 15,1998, Page 4
  AFGHANews
  PO Box 264, Peshaitw-Pakittan Tel; 41181
Editorial
                         Red judge senteces 14 , years eld t girl to 15 years tail
                                India faces dilemma in Afghanistan
   THE puppet regime in Kabul lias extended its hand to India for help but that country is not in a position to help survive the regime:
   Najib's visit to Delhi just ten days before the beginning of the Soviet troop withdrawal indicates the regime s worries about Its survival when it will be left to its fate after the Soviets leave and will have to face the Mujahideen forces,
   Najib's choice of India as the regime s main supporter after Soviet withdrawal goes dace to the cordial relationship between the puppet regime and India over the past nine years of the occupat ion of Afghanistan by the Soviet Union. Close cooperation between Moscow and Delhi put India on the side of the puppet regime.
   The other reason which brings Najib close to Rajiv is the friendly relationship between Pakistan and the Afghan Resistance. Pakistan, by providing shelter for three million Afghan refugees and actively supporting the Resistance earned an important political position in the world community which India resents.
   The third reason is the fear of India of an Islamic uprising by the Afghan nation. India with a large , but oppressed, Islamic population is worried about the effect of an Afghan victory over the Godless communists
   India's position towards the Afghans struggle for liberation has been a negative one. India as an active member of the non-aligned movement failed to criticize the Invasion of Afghanistan, a non-aligned country, by a super
   HAS1MA. aH year old girl, was sentenced to 15 years for an alleged killing of a Communist party activist.
   According to Farooq who was tried in the same court in 14»3, the judge asked | Hassima; “How long shall we i imprison you?', She replied: "As long as your regime lives!' The judge said:‘Is ten years enough?". Hassima replied: 'It is too long, your government will not last more than two years," The judge sentenced her to 15 years,
   Farooci recalls another sad I story he witnessed in jail. A lady came along with her five children to meet her husband in the prison and asked him to divorce her so that she could marry someone else to be able to feed her children, i She had nobody to support j her,
    Her husband. Fir Mohammad, who was a friend I of mine accepted bis wife's j demand and divorced her with tearful eyes." said Farooq,
   power,
      It kept its good relationship with the regime and provided it with ail kinds of economic and political support, India indulged in anti-Mujahideen propaganda and there were even reports of military cooperation between that country and the puppet regime in Kabul,
      The puppet regime which has developed a slave mentality cannot live without an outside master. After disappointment with the performance of the Red Army in combat against the Resistance and Che decision of the Soviets to withdraw their j troops, against the wishes of the puppet regime, Najib ■ extended his band to India.
      Najib used extremely nattering language in praise of India. He used his broken Urdu to impress his hosts. He used similar praise-words for India that he was using for Moscow, In Moscow he paid visits to Lenin s Moselum. in India he performed similar rituals to please the souls of Hindu leaders.
      There are serious doubts that India could do any thing
                                                                                                                 (see next page!
Mujahideen j commander visits Paris
ALLAUDDJN a Jamiat commander in Herat Province was invited to France to attend a photography exhibition on Herat which was opened on the fourth of May.
  The exhibition was orgamzd by Medicine de monde and AFRaNE, the two voluntary organizations working with the Mujahideen,
 i
 i
 I
 i
 *
 j
 t
 I
 i
AFGHANS^ Vol 1 No 10, May 15,1968, Page 5
  Editorial...
   positive for the shaky regime of Najib,
     Najib's dilemma is how to face an internal problem. The people of Afghanistan consider him an infidel communist and a KGB agent. They hold him responsible for the murder of thousands of Afghans. There is no way that Afghans can forgive him.
     The Red Army, with the reputation of clamping down on anti-communist movements was net able to impose the puppet regime on Afghans. How can India help the puppet regime wlch all the problems it is facing itself ?
     Sending the Indian army is out of the question. Sending arms is not a contribution to the regime because the Soviets are providing it with all the arms it needs. Training army personnel cooid help the regime but it needs something else to help its survival. Training could be useful only for long-term purposes,
     India may be willing to help the regime in economic fields but any investment in the regime is very risky because the regime will face destruction after the Soviet troops have left.
     N'ajib encouraged the Indians to mediate between him and Zahir and those whom he called moderate opposition rorces. After all the mistakes that India has committed he can not play a mediator role. Any person coming through india s good offices will be deeply suspected by the Mujahideen. The last mistake Rajive committed was the invitation of Najib to visit India.
     We advise the Indian government not to involve Itself in Afghanistan. The puppet regime is doomed to failure and the Mujahideen cannot trust the Indians because of their hostile attitudes towards the Resistance in the past nine years of occupation.
     India must have learned a lesson from Its close friend, the Soviet Union, and should abstain from any abortive attempt to help the regime In its last days of iife.
Pakistani
                                                                                  ‘I
politicians j support
  7-party
  Alliance
  THE leaders of some of the Pakistani political parlies expressed solidarity j with the Mujahideen Alliance J in a party held on may 8.
  In order to create more understanding among the people of Pakistan, the Mujahideen Alliance invited j a number of Pakistan s political leaders for a dinner j party in Peshawar.
  The party was attended by j some of the Alliance leaders j including Prof. Burhanuddin j Rabbani.
  The Pakistani leaders Included Prof, Ghafoor A ham ad from jamaat islami ; Pakistan and the leaders of Tehrikl Nifaz Fiqh-i-jafrla ! and Jamiat Uiama-i- Islam. ;
  They promised their continued support for the Mujahideen,
  I
Who s who of Mujahideen
  commander Panji
     PAN jl, 32, was born in a small village called Jangai Hareeq in Aqcha district of Jawzjan province. His father. Tanger Bairdi, had immigrated from Bukhara when the j Russians occupied that | Islamic city known as the j cradle of Islamic culture, Panii, now deputy } commander of Jami at in ; Jawzjan province, was before | Jehad a farmer and a known : horse rider.
     His father was not able to ! send him to school since he : was the only member of the i family who helped his father
J
 on the limited land they had. He was brought up anti-Russian because his father told him the horrible stories of the atrocities committed by the Red Army in Tajekistan.
   "I was working in the field when ? saw a group of Mujahideen ambushing a puppet regime s convoy. The group commander explained the reason why he was fighting against the Communist regime. Then i joined them." said Psnji,
   Panis said that he was working part time in the field
 and the rest with the Mujahideen, After one year he become a group commander of 30 Mujahideen. Panji who arrived in Peshawar three weeks ago said that at the beginning of the war capturing Communist posts was easy.
    Commander Panji has participated in more than 200 small and big operations against Russian-DRA forces in the past seven years. He has been wounded six times. Panji was appointed as Jamiat j Island's Deputy Commander j in Jawzjan province In 1084. j
    He is married and has a son. He belongs to Turkman j ethnic group who mainly live j in the North of Afghanistan.
AF&HANevs Vol 4, No 1C, May 13,1968, Peg® 6
      AS part of the IUaM s j program, prof. 8. Rabbani. the I leader of jami at fslami } Afghanistan, spoke at a large i gathering of Afghan refugees | in Khurasan camp at the outskirts of Peshawar an April 27. The meeting was held to condemn the April communist coup of 197S in Kabul.
      in his speacli, Prof. Rabbani addressed many issues that the Resistance is facing. Here are highlights of Prol, Rabbani s speech:
      •The April coup not only brought a bunch of criminals to power but marked the beginning of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan and j an attempt to annex i Afghanistan to the Russian 1 empire. The plot, however.
 ; failed because of the Afghan : peoples heroic resistance.
      •       We condemn the Geneva ■ accord but congratulate our ! Mujahid people for theif
   victory in forcing the Russians out of Afghanistan. The Russians do not withdraw their troops as a result of the Geneva talks, but because of the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen,
      •       Among the contradictory j reactions to the Geneva accord
   and pessimism and optimism expressed, two facts are forgotten in regard of the j accord:
      (a)     The decisive victory of the Afghan nation over the
 | Russian invaders. This I victory is certainly the greatest phenomenon of our age.
      (b) The lack of
 * condemnation of Russia for its barbaric attack and brutal atrocities. The lack of such a condemnation is indeed the most unfortunate event in history. It sets an evil precedent for other invaders
  in the future.
     •   The recent retreats of the puppet regime s troops following the news of a possible Russian troop withdrawal is clear evidence of the regime's emptiness and lack of support among the people.
     Naiib s recent proposal for de-mi litari2ed zones is a desperate cover over its imminent downfall. We categorically reject the deceitful proposal and announce that until the complete liberation of Afghanistan from the Russians and their agents no part of the country can be considered a zone of peace,"
     •   The Geneva Accord does not bring peace to Afghanistan. Foreign aggression stilt continues in the country. Until the Russian puppet regime is removed: aggression is not ended, peace cannot be restored, and the refugees will not be able to return.
     •   There should not be any fear from the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Anyone who fears a Mujahideen government, actually fears the government of the Afghan people, if there is such a fear in the West, it means that those who hold such views do not adhere to their own democratic principles and do not recognize the right of self-determination for other nations.
     •    ft is absolutely wrong to think that there are deep differences among Mujahideen and that Afghanistan would become another Lebanon. In the near future, the world
  ! will witness greater unity among Mujahideen.
     •   Signing Geneva Accord has not eliminated the need
 I
 for direct talks between the I Russians and the Mujahideen. There are many Issues that could be discussed.
    If Russians hope for friendship with the Afghan people, they must respect the wifi of the nation, recognize the Mujahideen government, stop interfering in our domestic affairs, and compensate lor their historical crime in invading Afghanistan.
    •    Prof. Rabbani disclosed that the Russians had approached the Mujahideen through some Muslim personalities. They had expressed willingness to have good relations with the Alghan people and readiness to recognize a Mujahideen government. He said If the Russians are sincere, they must publicly announce what they have been saying in their private letters.
    •    Prof. Rabbani expressed bis regret and resentment about the "congratulations messages' sent by some Muslim leaders to Najib. Some countries have even shown readiness to provide massive aid to the puppet regime.
       • The Jami at leader assured the Afghan intellectuals and the Afghan j women that they will play a j major role in the future in Afghanistan. The propaganda which says Mujahideen will close schools and lock up women is totally baseless.
     •     Prof. Rabbani welcomed the Islamic uprising among the Palestinians against the Zionist tyranny. He said the Palestinian people are discovering their natural way for victory. He asked the Arab and other Muslim nations to support the Palestinian cause and not to leave their brothers alone.
     Alliance condemns April communist coup
AFGHANews Vol 4. No 10, May 15,1988, Page 7
        NA JIB'S brother believed in Communism when lie was a student. Later he changed his mind. He was working in a branch of the Afghan National Bank in Hum burg, ¥est Germany. He gave an interview in 'which he criticised the puppet regime and tried to seek political asylum there.
        Naiib who was the head of the K&B-tradned KKAD at the time, ordered the kidnapping, of his brother .
        He was kidnapped and brought to East Berlin and sent to Kabul via Moscow. He never gave up the idea of escaping to freedom.
        In the summer of 1987 he managed to contact the j j Mujahideen from Panjshir. He was assured of t j support. On October the 22nd. he, his wife and fro ■ i children hid themselves in an ambulance and were taken to Jabal Sersj, 70 Kilometer North of Kabul.
  I                                                     i
  t                                                     \
        His defection came ax a time 'when Naiib was
  I inviting his opponents for 'National Reconciliation' ! and a 'Coalition Government’.
        In an interview with Tony Davis he described his i brother as a charlatan who could not tolerate people J having a different opinion. ’
i
        He and his family are now living in liberated j | areas.
 \
 i • Sediqfiliah, Najifc's brother, end two of bis cMidren with I Cottscwttder llasood in the Pattjshir valley.
              Sediquilah escapes to freedom
  Chaharbagh
                                            massacre
   IN April 19d5, the Soviet Army began a big reprisal sweep operation against the villages of Quarghai district down Laghman valley, close to nearby highway; about 20km east from Jalalabad.
   The villages of Chaharbagh, Kace Aziskhan Baiabagh. Sazadad; Haisar Khan ] and Prele Jbghi were ! partly destroyed and their inhabitants killed j or mutilated.
   In Chaharbagh the ) Soviets shot dead hunderds of civilians j with machine guns; poured gasoline on some of them end ; burned them alive and j looted the houses.
   Children were bayoneted under their mothers' '/ary eyes. 68 I persons were massacred on April 5 in j Has. They were buried ! by the survivors. The \ whole operation ended I on April IS.       j
   A dozen of villages were destroyed or j burned, about a thousand civilians killed. About as many ; Soviet paratroopers took part in this operation.
   Those villages lying nearby Bar unto, hydro-electric dam,
  10km west from Jalalabad on the Kabul highway, were suspected to have taken • part m the attacks against the dam and the ! police -station.   .!
 AEGHANews Vol 4. No 10, May 15; 1988. PageS
 Afghan nation celebrates Eid in midst of sorrow and hope
    EIBUL-EITRE which marks the end of the fasting-month of Ramadan is a happy occasion for ail Muslims. But due to the ‘Soviet invasion of Afghanistan it brings to the mind of Afghans the sad memories of the loss of friends and relatives Traditionally, Eid was celebrated with religious performances and social functions. Fhen the nev moon was seen, Ramadan
 visited each others families. These celebrations continued. for three days.
   Eid was a special occasion for the children. Boys and girls wore new clothes and were given presents by the- elders.
   Orphans ’were taken care of in order to forget the loss of his father or mother on such an happy occasion. The traditional family system provided good opportunities for
 ended and the people celebrated Eid. A Muslim is required to take a bath, wear his best clothes, use
 perfume and attend
           AFGHANews
          wishes a happy Eid to all its Muslim readers
 the special prayers held in congregations in the open air.
   Before performing Eid prayers, rich Muslims are required to pay a certain amount of alms to the poor so that everybody should be able! to celebrate Eid.
   Worshippers were addressed by learned scholars and reminded of their religious duties. Government officials read out the Eid message of the head of state at Eid gatherings.
   After saying the-prayers, the social functions starved. Relatives and friends
 them to enjoy Eid. People visited the sick ones and prayed for the the recovery of their health.
   All these things belonged to the pre-war time. The Communist coup of 1978 and the Soviet invasion of 1979 disrupted the religious and traditional life of the people.
    Most families have lost one or more of its members. Some families are divided. The country is not safe and the economic situation is bad. All this has put a negative effect on the celebrations of Eid.
   Eid which was
 supposed to bring people together reminds them of the loss of their relatives and friends. Too many orphans and widows with nobody to take care of them is depressing. Children ask -where their fathers are and young •women miss their loved ones who are either in communist jails, in exile or have teen forced into the puppet army.
   One third of the whole population of
 Afghanistan are living as refugees, Eid cannot be futty enjoyed in the camps away from ones own country.
    The puppet regime which has brought all this
 tragedy to the
 country tries to exploit the occasion. It announces the releasing of some prisoners in honor of Eid. The puppet regime's leaders who are communists and who do not believe m religion participate in the congregation prayers. The purpose is to deceive the people who are muslims.
   People of Afghanistan are looking for the day when their country is free. Eid celebrated in freedom will be an extremely happy moment. All the signs indicate that the day of victory is not far.
AEGHAKe'ffs Vol.4, No 10, May 15,1988, Page 9
          Former king wants to be future president
      THE ex-king of Afghanistan has said that since a king is not suitable for Afghanistan he is willing to return as the president of Afghanistan.
      King Zahir who ruled Afghanistan for several decades have been living in exile in Italy since he was deposed by his nephew, the late President Daud in 1973.
      In a recent interview with the Republican newspaper of Italy, he said that a king was not suitable for Afghanistan. When asked if he was ready to serve as the head of the transitional government supervising elections, he said:"l am at the service of Afghanistan."
      The ex-king thinks that his role can be determined in a traditional assembly of elders (Loya Jerga). These types of assemblies brought the King s father to power and subsequently endorsed the policies of the ruling family. Mohammad Zahir believes that such a Jerga gives him the institution through which he can revive his role.
      The idea of return of the King gained strength when the Soviets showed their readiness to withdraw their forces under some conditions.
      Most of the Resistance ! political parties oppose the ■ return of Zahir Shah in the I political arena of Afghan | politics and consider him something ol the past.
      There are three traditional parties who support the idea of a return of the king but they are not sure about the role they envisage for the ex-king.
    In his interview Zahir Shah has said that he was trying to bring maximum unity among the Resistance group. This is surprising because he does not have an organization to do the job and so far no activities have come from him to confirm his claim.
    More than that, the issue of the role of the king is s dividing factor among the Mujahideen and refugees. Pro and anti-Zahir Shah demonstration in the past few months have shown this.
    Even if the Resistance groups were united under him there is no role for him to play. Zahir Shah could have come as the head of the government through a peace process. Geneva was signed and there was no agreement on an interim government.
    The Soviets have chosen their way. They want the puppet regime to he the backbone of the political system in Afghanistan and any political flexibility shown by the communists will be in the context of National Reconciliation' announced by the Kabul regime.
    The future system of government will be decided in the battlefield rather than on the conference table.
 There are no signs that in these circumstances the ex-king wilt be ready to shoulder any responsibility or even that he will be invited to play a role
    He was waiting for an opportunity which the Superpowers would have given him by asking him to become the new ruler of
 Afghanistan. There are no predictable signs that such a situation will prevail in the foreseeable future.
     The chances for the ex-king to play the role of the new president are very small. Najib. the president of the puppet regime, asked the King to come to the country and serve under him in what he called the coalition government. The Ex-king reportedly rejected the idea.
 Delhi closes Qandahar consulate
   INDIA has closed its consulate in Qandahar the second largest city of Afghanistan.
   The decision was taken after the closure of the Indian j consulate in the Eastern city ’ of Jalalabad a couple of weeks ago.
   India being afraid of security of Its mission closed [ its consulate at the same day when Najib was visiting Indian capital.
 gmaea. .ii j.miiu———
 Mujahideen kill Soviet reporter
   ACCORDING to the Soviet News Agency Tass.
 Alexander Sekretarve. 29. a photo-journalist from the 'l2vestia' newspaper was killed in the North of Afghanistan,
   The journalist was travelling with a Soviet convoy w’hen it was ambushed in the north of Afghanistan. Another photographer who was accompaning him was seriously wounded in action. ]