/


Vol 5, No 3
February 1,1989
Shevardnadze visits Kabul
    THE Soviet Foreign Minister reached Kabul on a 3-day unannounced visit on January 13 to discuss the latest situation with regime leaders.
    His trip took place one month before the date when the Soviet troops are supposed to withdraw from Afghanistan
    Mr. Shevardnadze, promised continued support for the communist regime of Najib. He also asked for a continuation of talks between the Mujahideen and the Soviets.
    Earlier the Mujahideen, describing the Soviet attitude in the talks as "negative", had announced an end to further talks unless the Soviets changed their stand.
    It is believed the Soviet Union promised to supply food and fuel for the regime.
          Resistance Advisory Council to meet on February 10
     AS a first step towards formation of a broad-based interim administration the Mujahideen parties have agreed to form an advisory council.
     The council will be composed of representatives of the Mujahideen parties, commanders, religious scholars, refugees and intellectuals. Each of the seven parties in the Alliance will introduce 60 people, half of whom will be field commanders or their representatives.
     The Alliance has asked the coalition of eight parties based in Iran to introduce 60 people, but the coalition is asking for more seats. A reliable source
        Soviet troops leave Afghanistan
    WESTERN sources report that the Soviets have resumed their troop withdrawal.
    The Soviets have committed them*-selves to withdraw their troops by February-15,1989. After completion of the first phase, the Soviet Union suspended troop withdrawal.
    After returning from Islamabad talks, the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Yuri Vorontsov, said in Moscow that there was a danger the Soviets might not complete its troop withdrawal on time.
    Soviet officials have reiterated their commitment to abide by the Geneva accords, but have refused to give any information about the details of troop withdrawal.
    The Soviets say that their troops are deployed in the six provinces. Soviet troops are in Kabul, Par wan, Baghlan, Samangan and Balkh on the Salang highway, and in Herat in the
 west of the country.
     Before leaving, the Soviets have involved themselves in heavy bombing of the liberated areas - especially areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North. Preliminary reports of mass killings along the Salang highway have reached Peshawar. These attacks are carried out under the guise of opening the road for food convoys but the real aim seems to be securing it from the Mujahideen attack during the troop withdrawal.
     The Mujahideen have said that they will not attack withdrawing Soviet troops.
  Paper name changed
    THE Kabul regime party newspaper Haqiqat-e-Lnqilab-e-Sour ('Troth of the April Revolution") was renamed Payam ("message") on 31 December.
    The paper will remain under the control of the party and will be run by the same people. .
 says that the possibility of a compromise on 80 seats could not be ruled out. A delegation of the Mujahideen Alliance has gone to Teheran to negotiate a deal with the leaders of the coalition.
 ( The Supreme Council of the Alliance has also decided to include some people living in Kabul in the advisory council, but so far the number of seats reserved for these people and who they will be has not been disclosed.
     The primary task of the council is to give vote confidence to the interim government proposed by the Supreme Council of the Alliance.
     So far, the Supreme Council, which is composed of the seven leaders of the constituent parties in the Alliance, has not agreed on the composition of the interim government which will be introduced to the council.
     Since the Soviet troops are supposed to leave by February 15, the Mujahideen parties are under tremendous pressure to come up with a practical solution for the transitional government to avoid further complication of the situation.
     The first meeting of the advisory council of the Mujahideen will be held on February 10. The place of the meeting is not decided yet but it is possible that the meeting will be held in Peshawar.
     The delay in formation of the council has become a source of worry for Afghans and their supporters.
     The Soviet Union has said that it sees a positive element in the Shoora but insists on inclusion of the communist regime in any arrangement. The Mujahideen refuse to deal with communists but have shown readiness to include "good Muslims" from Kabul to participate in the Shoora and interim administration.
AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 2
                                                   Herat province
    THE Mujahideen from Jarm at destroyed an enemy jeep and killed all its occupants in Kamar Kalagh area on lerat-Torghondi highway on 29 December.
    Three Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
    In a separate attack on enemy posts in Shaghalian area, eight enemy soldiers were killed on December 30. The Mujahideen captured five kalashinkov rifles and one truck.
    On the same day. Mujahideen from Ghoryan and Zendajan districts am-)u$hed an enemy convoy on Kal Shada on Herat-Islam Qala highway. As a result of one tank and one truck belonging to the regime were destroyed, fifteen soldiers were killed or wounded and one soldier was captured.
    •#0The Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Kandahar highway on January 14, as a result of which 3 trucks were destroyed, two officers were killed and an unknown number of soldiers were wounded or killed.
    •The Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Jarkan area close to the city of Herat on January 19, as a result of which one officer and 6 soldiers were killed, 4 soldiers were captured and five weapons woe seized.
     •The Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts 'in Pash toon Zarghoon District on January IS. As a result 10 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded, 5 soldiers were captured and 15 guns were seized.
     •The Mujahideen in Adraskan Distript attacked a DRA convoy on 19 January. One truck was destroyed, 15 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 8 soldiers were captured.
    Baghlan province
    The Mujahideen fired ground-to-ground rockets into the Soviet base in Kailagay on 16 December. One parked helicopter, 20 tanks and trucks were destroyed, an ammunition dump was set on fire and several houses were damaged. An unknown number of Soviet soldiers were killed or wounded.
    On December 27, the Mujahideen fired rockets into the Soviet base in Kailagay destroying four helicopters, two trucks and setting on fire several tents. The enemy also suffered casualties but figures were not available.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen destroyed a Soviet tank and killed all its occupants by RPG fire in Sang-i-Sorkh area in Kailagay.
    The Soviet base in Kailagay, east of Puli-Khumri town has been a target of the Mujahideen attacks in the past several months. Kailagay is located north of Salang on the highway between Kabul and Soviet border. The base is being used as a transit point for transportation of goods between Kabul and the Soviet border. -
    The Mujahideen from Jami’at under command of Joora attacked the security post of the Sugar Mills in Baghlan on January 1. Sixty regime soldiers were killed, 12 soldiers were captured and the rest escaped. The Mujahideen captured 152 Kalashinkov rifles, one mortar, one tank and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were killed and two others were injured.
    The next day, the Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Mulla Shams and the Mujahideen from Hezb under the command of Mamoor Ghayoor attacked the security posts around Baghlan city. Most of the posts were destroyed. The Mujahideen captured nine tanks, two of which were not in working condition. Mamoor Ghayoor captured six tanks and Mulla Shams one tank. Two Mujahideen be-
 longing to Mulla Shams were killed and Mulla Shams and 27 Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
    The report adds that because the Mujahideen were preoccupied in evacuation of the injured Mujahideen from the battleground, most of the enemy soldiers of the posts under attack managed to escape.
    Mamoor Ghayoor has cordial relations with the Mujahideen from Jami’at and he has been cooperating with them in fighting against the enemy.
  North of Afghanistan
    Soviet and regime planes have been bombing areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North since January 18. The bombing still continues.
    Bombing started after the regime warned the Mujahideen of the Council to refrain from attacking convoys on Salang highway. The warnings were ignored. The Council bases in Farkhar, Worsaj, Khailab, Khost-o-Fering and Panjsher have been bombed by Soviet jets heavily. In the north 13 people have lost their lives and an unknown number have been wounded. Air raids against the villages are carried out day and night
     Panjshir is receiving most of the bombs but casualties have not been reported.
    Since the Mujahideen of the Council do not have enough shoulder-fired rockets, they rely on machine guns for defence against the enemy planes.
    The Council of the North, a regional organization of Jami’at, has built strong bases along the Salang highway, the life line of the regime bringing supplies to the capital.
    In indiscriminate bombardments the civil population suffer the most. Since bombing is taking place during the winter it must be very difficult for old men, women and children to live in caves to protect themselves.
  Badakhshan province
     The Mujahideen from Jami’at under the command of Basir Khalid captured a strong enemy post in Faizabad city on January 16.
     40 soldiers and 4 officers of the regime were captured. The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
     1-     45 Kalashinkov rifles and five heavy machine guns
     2- Two 76mm Howitzers
                                                                                                        Turn to page ( 5 )
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 3
      AHMAD Ali Shadad, a famous Afghan painter who defected to the Mujahideen one month ago says that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has had a negative effect on Afghan art.
      Shadad, 30, comes from Paghman district of Kabul and belong to middle class family.
      He became interestedin drawing and painting when he was a child.
 After graduating from the art department ofSanaye School, he enrolled in the faculty of Fine Arts of Kabul University. After graduation in 1982 he started to teach in the same faculty.
      Prof. Shadad is an expert in miniature illustrations . This is an art which originated and developed in Herat. The famous painter of Herat, Behzad (16th century) had an international reputation. From Herat this art went to Central Asia, Iran, India and the Middle East.
      Miniature illustrations are used to decorate Holy Quran, books, pottery, tombstones, mosques etc. A living example of this art is painting in Herat mosque.
      Shadad said that Soviet invasion has had a negative effect on development of art in the country. On one hand attempts are made that art should serve communism ideology; on the other hand artists were other killed or they Uft the country.
       "Another problem is isolation of Afghan artists from the free world.
 When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan all sorts of contacts with Western countries were cut. The only place the students and professors could go was the Soviet Union," Shadad said.
      He said that the Union of Artists created by the regime also has created tremendous problems for artists and the faculty cfFine Arts of Kabul University. The Union wants to bring the artists under control of the regime, he said.
       In the faculty of Fine Arts 1000 students are studying. Most of the students are girls because boys are taken to the army.
       When he was asked what he wanted to do in Pakistan, he said ’There are enough people to fight, but we have few artists. I want to serve my country through art."
       He said: "We should try to keep miniature art alive. It is an Afghan art and we must preserve it."
Soviet, regime blamed for plight of Kabulis
     A Jami'at commander east of Kabul believes that the Kabul regime and Soviets are responsible for the food and fuel shortage in the capital.
     Commander Anwar, who has control over Soroobi District east of Kabul, said to Afghanews that the Mujahideen do not attack non-military convoys. The Soviets and the Kabul regime do not allow non-military convoys to transport goods. All convoys are escorted by military units and this is the reason why they are attacked by the Mujahideen.
     He said the Mujahideen suffer from the food shortages in Kabul city. On the contrary, the Soviets are happy about this development to make a cause out of it against the Resistance.
     Anwar, who blocked Kabul-Jalalabad road for one month, said that the Mujahideen from Jami'at scored a major victory in the one-month operation. Three hundred enemy soldiers and officers were captured, 60 tanks and trucks of the enemy were destroyed and one MI-24 helicopter was shot down. The regime casualties were high. Hie Mujahideen captured 340 guns.
     Anwar Khan said that regime forces under the direction of Soviet advisers tried to open the road but failed. The enemy launched three major attacks against the Mujahideen but the attacks were repulsed.
    Commander Anwar said that the enemy made extensive use of the air force, and bombings were carried out day and night He said an average number of 50 jets took part in bombing missions each day in groups of 4 to 12 planes.
    The Jami'at commander said the purpose of blocking the Kabul-Jalalabad road was to put military pressure both on Kabul and Jalalabad which are besieged by the Mujahideen. The enemy could not bring reinforcements to Jalalabad and this let the Mujahideen win several victories around Jalalabad, the provincial capital of Ningarhar.
      Commander Anwar said the regime may last up to 6 months after the Soviet withdrawal. He said the Mujahideen ini Kabul province were meeting to draw up a military plan for Kabul. They have decided to divide Kabul into four zones and also have agreed that the Mujahideen from outside Kabul should participate in liberation of Kabul after approval of the Kabul Mujahideen.
      Commander Anwar believes that the regime, after defeat in Kabul, will move to the North and fight from there. The Soviets have expanded Mazar city, on the Soviet border, to accommodate regime organizations.
           Soviets have given regime chemical weapons
     THE Kabul regime is among nine countries which have chemical weapons, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute says.
     The Mujahideen have reported on several occasions the use of chemical weapons against them by the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime.
     The Geneva protocol of 1925, signed by 131 countries, forbids use of chemical weapons. The Soviets have threatened the Mujahideen that if they did not accept peace on Soviet terms, the Soviet Union would provide more sophisticated weapons to the regime.
     Yuri Vorontsov told the Mujahideen delegation in Islamabad that the regime has weapons which it has not used (!) and that it will be provided with more sophisticated weapons.
     The Soviets know that giving some tanks and long-range rockets will
  not save the regime. Since the regime has been using ^hemical weapons in the war against Mujahideen, it is possi ble it may use these weapons when it faces real threat. Although the regime knows about the international reaction against use of chemical weapons it may use them out of desperation.
      The Regime Foreign Minister Abdul Wakil, participated in the Paris conference which discussed ways or banning the use and manufacturing of chemical weapons.
      Najib wanted to participate in the conference but after realizing that he was not welcomed by the host country he changed his mind.
      Supporters of the Mujahideen in France and the Jami'at Office in Paris had sent letters to vthe French. Government not to permit the head of the Kabul regime to participate in the conference and to use the occasion for publicity.
                                           AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 4
  Editorial
              '
Bonn closes Embassy in Kabul
  The British Foreign Office has asked all British subjects to leave Afghanistan due to deteriorating security situation in Kabul.
 Soviet soldiers return home with fresh blood in hands
    BOMBING of civilian targets by the Soviet planes has increased just two weeks before the Soviet troops are supposed to leave Afghanistan. These planes fly from bases inside Afghanistan or air fields inside the Soviet Union.
    These air raids cover a large area and are described by field commanders as very extensive. Bombing of areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North started after a propaganda campaign about shortages of food in Kabul, and attributing it to Mujahideen activities along the Salang highway.
    The regime’s Ministry of Defence gave several ultimatums to Commander Masood in the past few weeks asking him to negotiate with the regime and to refrain from attacking convoys. These warnings were ignored and the Mujahideen continued their normal operations against the enemy.
    Since January 18 all the bases of the Council - Farkhar, Worsaj, Khailab, Khost-o-Fering and Panjshir - are being bombed heavily day and night. Primary estimates show that casualties among the people and losses of property are very high.
    The regime announced the killing of more than 300 Mujahideen in South Salang on January 23, but what actually happened was a massacre of people and razing of villages to the ground.
    The problem of the Mujahideen of the Council is a lack of effective anti-aircraft weapons. The Mujahideen are fighting against enemy planes with ordinary machine guns.
    The civilian population are the ones who suffer the most from indiscriminate bombardments. Casualties among children and women are high in air raids. Since the weather is cold and the ground is covered with snow, hiding in the mountains and staying too long in caves for protection from bombs is difficult.
    These attacks have taken place about two weeks before the Soviet troops are supposed to leave Afghanistan. The attacks, which are offensives, are against the assurances that the Soviets had given during the signing of the Geneva accords. The Soviets had told other signatories of the Geneva accords that its forces would refrain from launching offensive attacks against the Mujahideen.
    How could the act of bombing Farkhar more than 100 kilometers away from the Salang highway be called a defensive measure to protect the Salang highway?
    Bombing does not solve the problem. It could not defeat the Afghans in the past ten years and will not benefit the Soviets and the puppet regime now.
    The Soviets, who are supposed to leave, committed a big crime by killing innocent people after months of talks about peace and calling the invasion a mistake.
    The free world should take note of this escalation of war by the Soviets. The Soviets should be condemned for the continuation of violence in Afghanistan. It is a tragedy to see that the Soviets get international aid for earthquake victims in the Soviet Union, while at the same time they raze Afghan villages to the ground by bombs and kill its people.
    Gorbachev talks about peace and new thinking but the Red Army continues to kill Afghans. The Iron Amir of Afghanistan rightly said: "Do not trust the Russians.”                         1
    The consular staff of the British Embassy will remain for the time being but a program for emergency evacuation of them has been approved.
    The West German Embassy in Kabul has been closed due to security reasons.
    Earlier the UN evacuated its 20 officials from Kabul in a move called a "precautionary measure".
    The Soviets have agreed to withdraw their troops by February 15. Since no progress has been made in finding a political solution of the problem, the war between the Mujahideen and Kabul regime will intensify once the Soviet troops have left
    Kabul is being hit by occasional rockets fired by the Mujahideen and die food situation in the city is worsening. Due to the war the Kabul population has increased beyond its capacity. There are indications that re-immigration from Kabul to the countryside is taking place.
    When the Soviet troops started to pull out of Afghanistan most of the embassies evacuated the families of their staff.
    The Russian Embassy also has reduced its staff from several hundred to 100. Reports say that the Soviet Union is building an air strip near the embassy for emergency evacuation of staff when the time comes. The road from the embassy to Kabul airport passes through the city and could be blocked easily.
    The Kabul regime has been worried by the UN and other countries’ moves to evacuate their subjects because it could create fear among the regime people.
 Bush supports Mujahideen
    US Secretary of State James Baker has said that the Bush administration will continue Reagan's policy on Afghanistan including aid for Mujahideen if Moscow helps the Kabul regime.
    Baker said that the US would provide military aid to the Mujahideen if the Soviets provide aid to the regime in Kabul.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 5
  Who is who in the Mujahideen
  Com. Mohammad Rahim
       Commander Rahim, a young Uzbek horse-rider who has been wounded eleven times in the war against the Soviets, was bom 28 years ago in Sangcharak District of Jawzjan province. His father, Haji Ayoub, was a merchant selling rugs and carpets. His mother was from Central Asia who had . escaped along with her father from communist rule.
       "I heard the stories of the Soviet atrocities when they invaded Bukhara, a city in Central Asia. 1 still remember the tearful eyes of my grandfather recalling his past memories. 1 was brought up in an atmosphere filled with stories about Soviet atrocities," said Commander Rahim, who arrived in Peshawar two weeks ago for medical treatment
       Commander Rahim went to the primary school in his village and to a mosque to learn the Holy Quran. "I left school to help my father in his business," recalled commander Rahim.
       He was 18 years old when the communist government took power in Kabul in 1978. His family left the city for the mountains. They stayed about six months in the mountains. "That was my first experience being far from the city. My father bought me a shotgun and 1 never forget the first sentence ^ he told me when he gave the gun to me. He said that 1 should not lay my gun down until the enemy was out," said Rahim.
        His father and his uncles contributed to Jehad by buying guns and encouraging him to fight. Rahim made contact with a group of Mujahideen when he was in the mountains. "Qazi Sharif, Alemi and Sayfuddin were the first commanders from J ami'at who accepted me as a Mujahid and trained me in how to use the weapon. Since then I have left my family and devoted all my time and energy to Jehad," said Commander Rahim.
        It was in the winter of 1978 that Rahim participated in the first battle in his life. "We ambushed a government convoy at Archatoo in Sangcharak which resulted in the capture of a lot of weapons. I was wounded for the first time in that operation," recallec Commander Rahim, showing his shoulder which bears a coin-size scar. He considered the scar his first medal ol ‘ honor.
        After that success he became a group commander, expanded his group and established his first base in the mountains of Sangcharak (Sangcharak,
 located on the border of Mazar-i-Sharif and Jawzjan, has been a strategic base for both provinces).
     Within two years Commander Rahim became a well-known Mujahid amongst his people. People started to trust this young commander. He met Commander Zabihullah Shaheed and learnt a lot from him. "I learnt from lim how to deal with people and how to organize them." "Never take people for. granted even if they are 100% with you," This was what commander Zabihullah taught him.
     In 1983 commander Rahim was appointed by the leader of Jami'at as the military commander of the whole Jawzjan province. He made a six-member executive council to deal with military, political and social problems. The executive council created a judicial committee and arbitration committee headed by senior villagers to deal with the problems of the people.
     In his area he has established IS schools and some Madrasas (mosque schools) for the children. Their middle school has classes up to eighth grade.
     Commander Rahim believes that the Soviets are leaving but that they will change the provinces such as Balkh, Samangan and Jawzjan as the last stronghold of their puppets. He said that for a year the Soviets have built lots of new buildings in and around the city of Mazar-i-Sharif. They have expanded its airport and have strengthened the defences of the city.
     He says that the Mujahideen should he very careful about the Soviets' future intentions in regard to the North of the country.
News
       From page (2 )
     3-     Three rocket launchers and one 82mm mortar.
     4- Three communication sets .
     They also captured a large quantity
 of ammunition.
     Basir Khalid said in his letter that his Mujahideen suffered no casualties. He did not say whether the post was captured as a result of contacts with the soldiers and officers or as a result of fighting.
     Basir Khalid who is operation around Faizabad, the provincial capital of Badakhshan, has complained about food shortages in Badakhshan.
     He said that the Mujahideen and civilian population suffer from shortages of food.
     "Despite difficulties we will continue to fight till the liberation of the country". Commander Basir said.
                                                      Farah province
     The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Tahir Khan clashed with militia units of the regime atoiinc Shindand air base on January 22.
     Four hundred militiamen headed b * Sultan Muhammad surrendered to tv Mujahideen bringing with them 4' guns and 3 trucks.
     On the same day, a group of 3i militiamen joined the Mujahideen bringing their weapons with them . The report adds that at the moment the areas around the base are cleared of .militiamen.
                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                      3, February 1,1989, page 6                 
Evolution of the Islarr                  lie Movement in Afghai                       listan - Part (3)                          
Panjshir                                 Uprising <                                   of 1975                                    
IN the summer of 1974, I                 cinity of Rukha town. Friends who            capital of Parwan, on hearing the news     
was in the classroom in the facul¬       were waiting for us joined the rest of       of the uprising . In the clash the police  
ty of Engineering of Kabul               the groups .                                 commander and some policemen were          
University when I was told that I        Just before the beginning of the at¬         killed and the rest retreated.             
had an urgent meeting with a             tack, an emotional scene was created by      As time passed the tension mount¬          
friend. I left the class and went        the group. They were praying for victo¬      ed. Communist activists, playing on .      
to a house near the university           ry. They were weeping and asking al¬         the fear of the people of Daud's reprisal, 
campus. In the room were four            mighty Allah to help them.                   encouraged them to react. When the         
people all of whom I knew, ex¬           At 2:00 a.m July 20, 1975 the ac¬            first bus arrived from Kabul and the -     
cept one. I was summoned by              tion started. A few bullets were fired in    driver said to the people that every¬      
this new man to be told about the        the air. No body was killed or injured.      thing was normal in die capital the ten¬   
movement's plan of action in the         The district headquarters of the Daud re¬    sion reached its peak.                     
Panjshir valley. The man was             gime was captured and more than 20           Thirty-six people scattered over a         
Ahmad Shah, a student of the             bolt-action guns and some boxes of am¬       distance of 50 kilometers could not        
Polytechnic Faculty of Kabul             munition were seized. The road to            control a hostile population.              
University.                              Kabul was blocked and the telephone          The people involved in die action          
The meeting was short. He told us        line was cut.                                were members of the Islamic move¬          
about the communist activities in our    Simultaneously, two sub-district             ment motivated by ideological reasons      
area and the need to oppose them. He     headquarters in the valley were attacked     and came from different parts of           
gave us a job to do and that was to sur¬ and captured. By dawn the valley was         Afghanistan. Most of them were the         
vey the caves in Panjshir mountains for  liberated. That was the fust liberation      students of Kabul University. They         
possible hiding places for our friends   of the valley.                               also enjoyed die active support of some    
and caching of food We were supposed     The local people thought that a              of the local population.                   
to carry out the survey during the sum¬  coup had taken place and the Daud re¬        It was decided to retreat to the           
mer vacations.                           gime was overthrown. The sun rose and        mountains. The group was followed by       
One year passed and at the same          the people of the town were gathering        a huge crowd of local people. The peo¬     
time of the year 1 was summoned again.   around the radio receiver to know who        ple were making a scene to save diem-      
This time the plan was more serious.     was the leader of the coup. To their dis¬    selves from the regime's reprisals.        
Masood told me and other friends from    may they heard normal program on the         While most of the people were interest¬    
the valley to take with us one or two    radio and this was enough to realize that    ed in seeing the Mujahideen leave there    
'tiends and some weapons and ammuni-     Kabul was still under Daud's control.        were some who wanted to gain material      
on for military action against the       This was worrying to them.                   rewards. They attacked the Mujahideen      
aid regime.                              Daud was famous for cruelty and              and even killed and captured some. The     
The regime was preparing to cele-        the people were afraid of government re¬     Mujahideen were fully armed but did        
ate the second anniversary of its        prisals against themselves. Hie people's     not use force against the people.          
devolution". I had been involved in a    worries were justified because govern¬       The news of the uprising reached           
iimilar attempt one year before which    ments punished the people of the area        Kabul by a driver. At 2:00 pm a few        
had failed. Total commitment to the      for the action of individuals. A brother     helicopters brought the first group of     
cause and unlimited confidence in        and father got in trouble when his           soldiers from 444 Commando Unit sta¬       
friends left no room to ask questions    brother or son did something wrong.          tioned in Balahisar.                       
about the plan.                          In a few moments all the govern¬             The group at the mouth of the val¬         
Two students from Kabul                  ment officials were arrested but they        ley also freed the local people's upris¬   
University joined me and my brother.     were treated properly. The ordinary pris¬    ing. Some of than were killed by local     
They were carrying two black briefcases  oners of the district jail were released af¬ people and others were captured and        
in which two machine guns were hid¬      ter a political lecture.                     handed over to the defeated government     
den. Nobody suspected that we were in¬   The Mujahideen committed a mis¬              forces.                                    
volved in such a dangerous game.         take when they blew up the cash safe         The two other groups in the upper          
Summer was a good time to go to the      of the government's bank in broad day¬       part of the valley met the same end.       
countryside. It was picnic time. Four    light. This confused the people as to        By nightfall the government was            
days after reaching the valley, I was    whether the group was fighting for a         in control of the situation. The           
summoned to a village called Baharak.    political cause or as a band of ordinary     Mujahideen had lost some of their men      
It took me two hours by bicycle to       robbers.                                     and some others were captured. The re¬     
reach there. I met a group of people     Not everyone was confused. A                 maining men had hidden in the moun¬        
whom 1 had not seen before. The at¬      group of students from a religious           tains. The cowardly soldiers of the re¬    
mosphere in the room was tense. They     school sent a delegation and offered         gime treated the injured Mujahideen        
were talking about action. Masood        their services but were told to wait. A      badly. They dragged Engineer Naim,         
seemed to be the leader of the group.    group of students from Rukha high            who was injured in the leg, for half a     
Masood told me to go to my home          school who were affiliated to the            mile and killed him. That was not          
town, Rukha, and bring friends to a des¬ movement also volunteered to join.           enough. They burned his beard and          
ignated spot. The tyre of my bicycle     A group of Mujahideen armed with             threw his body from the mountain.          
was punctured on the way. Leaving be¬    captured weapons went to the mouth of        After the first day the people were        
hind the cycle, I started to walk. Some  the valley to block the road. There they     divided about the fairness of the way      
minutes later Masood arrived. He was     clashed with a contingent of police who      Turn to page (7)                           
riding a bicycle too. We rode to the vi- had come from Charikar, the provincial                                                  
AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1,1989, page 7
                 Refugees asked to reconstruct Afghanistan
From page ( 7)
and sisters are invited to participate fully in the future of their country. The door of the Mujahideen offices and the way to the fronts are open to them.
     Prof. Rabbani asked Afghan intellectuals in exile to help the Mujahideen by every possible means. They could give advice and lend their knowledge in reconstruction of their country.
     Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for self-reliance in rebuilding Afghanistan and the refugee community could play a vital role in that aspect
     The Mujahideen leader rejected the negative propaganda against the Mujahideen that they were against education in general and education of women in particular.
     He said different Mujahideen parties have opened schools in Peshawar and there are schools for both girls and boys. "The Mujahideen will never deprive women of their right to education. The Mujahideen are not against education, they are against atheism and propagation of destructive ideas under the guise of education," Prof. Rabbani said.
     Prof. Rabbani said that Islam respected die right of women and that the Mujahideen want to make Afghanistan a country with high educational standards 6
     He said that during his trip to the
 North, he saw schools functioning where there were no schools in the past
     About the peaceful transfer of power, Prof. Rabbani said that the Mujahideen had proposed formation of a Shoora (Council) and holding of elections. This is very new among the liberation movements. "Guerrilla movements do not go to the people to ask their opinion about the type of government and composition of the administration. The Mujahideen have the strength to take power. Despite all that, they are discussing formation of a Shoora and holding of elections. This shows their commitment to give rights to all sections of Afghan society to determine their future" Prof. Rabbani added.
     He criticized those people among Afghans in exile who claim that they were not given a right to participate in Jehad. He said the Mujahideen gave them every right to fight the Soviets and to capture as many guns as they wished.
     Prof. Rabbani advised the Afghan community in America to preserve Islamic values and Afghan culture, and to try to pass them to their children. He emphasized the decisive role of mothers in bringing up their children as true Muslims and patriotic Afghans.
  Afghanistan not Lebanon
                                                     From page (8)
people.
    "We will not allow conflicts or let our brothers kill brothers," he said. "But during the transitional stage Afghanistan will witness a series of difficulties. This is not new and it has always been the case in other social upheavals."
    Prof. Rabbani also stressed that Afghanistan's future government will not be "useless nationalist and secular" but an Islamic one with the participation of all religious and ethnic groups.
    The Mujahideen representatives in the seminar met Prime Minister Moosavi on January 15. Moosavi hoped that the Afghan Mujahideen would recognize the value of unity in their struggle for independence.
    The Foreign Minister of Iran said to the seminar that Iran would provide technical assistance to the future government in Afghanistan.
    He praised the role of Pakistan in helping the Mujahideen and said that there were close contacts between Iran and Pakistan and that the two countries had identical views on the issue.
    The representative of the Iran-based coalition of Afghan Mujahideen also participated in the conference.
    The Mujahideen leaders also held talks with the Iranian president and the Speaker of the Majlis ( Parliament).
        Panjshir uprising of 1975
they had treated the Mujahideen. A lot of them repented for shouting at them and not helping them. They were impressed by the Mujahideen's restrain not to shoot at the people while they were treated badly.
     Night is the time for rest, even for those who have been defeated. We six men, also had a good sleep in a cave up in the mountains. The next day we could get some food and started to move more carefully.
     For six days we were wandering in the mountains with no food, no warm clothes and being followed by the enemy. this was a testing time. Masood proved to be a kind friend and have the abilities to lead. At the end, it was decided that I and my brother, Kefayatullah, who was killed in the war in 1979, would return to our town and hide there until contacts were made with Masood.
     Two months in hiding was an ex-
                                    From page (6)
 traordinary experience. Our contact was limited to my twelve-year-old brother and mother.
      My young brother, Payenda Mohammad, who was killed in the war at age 17 in 1980, took care of us in those difficult days. He provided us with information about what was going on and established contact with Masood through a friend.
      The people coming to our house told strange stories about us. They fabricated all these stories to please the family. According to the stories, we were seen in different parts of Afghanistan wearing strange clothes. . Probably the wrong stories misled the government and we were safe in our house less than a kilometer from the government headquarters.
                                                                                                                In isolation, we started to look at the problem from a critical angle. Why
 was such action taken? Was it an independent action or part of bigger plan? I knew that everything had gone wrong but I was waiting to ask the questions of the right people.
     After two months we went to Kabul and from there to Peshawar. It was a good_thing to reach safety. In Peshawar, the questions that we had in mind were asked by the friends who had arrived earlier, and those responsible for the bad planning were not ready to admit their role. This led to friction and finally to a split within Jami'at Islami Afghanistan.
     The Panjshir defeat also had positive aspects. We started to find answer to the complicated political and military questions. Panjshir experience of 1975 taught Masood valuable lessons which were used later.
     Life in exile will be discussed in the next issue of Afghanews.
AFGHANews Vol5, No 3, February 1, 1989, page 8
Jami'at leader asks refugees to help rebuilding Afghanistan
     THE Jami'at leader has invited Afghan refugees living in the West to participate in formation of an Islamic government and help in the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     Prof. Rabbani made the appeal at a gathering of Afghan refugees in Washington, D.C. on November 8, 1988.
     The Mujahideen leader said that Afghanistan will be liberated soon and now is the time that all Afghans should think about the future of their country. They should help to establish an Islamic government The full participation of all Afghans, those who fight in Afghanistan and those who live as refugees outside the country, is necessary for the establishment and success of such a government
     He said the assumption that the Mujahideen will monopolize power after the liberation of the country is wrong. On the contrary they want all cross sections of Afghan society to participate in determining their destiny. The refugees should not think they are
 separate from the Mujahideen.
     Prof. Rabbani said that the reconstruction of Afghanistan needs the help of all Afghans, especially educated people. These people are welcomed by the Mujahideen irrespective of their official rank in previous regimes ^nd the country in which they have sought refuge.
     To prove his point Prof. Rabbani gave as an example the return of Prof. Fazel Khan who was the deputy minister of education during the king's rule and later became a refugee in France. Fazel Khan returned last summer to Afghanistan mid was warmly welcomed by Commander Masood and his Mujahideen. Now he is busy organizing educational activities in the areas controlled by the Supervisory Council of the North.
     The Jami'at leader also invited military officers to return to the country and help in creating the Islamic army.
     He said that since the victory of Afghans is close, our refugee brothers
            Turn to page (7)
        Afghanistan will not become lebanon
     Kabul city is facing acute shortages of food and fuel in one of its harshest winters.
     Food shortages are an acute problem. People are queuing to get bread, the principal diet, from 3 a.m and each family can get only five loaves of bread.
     The regime is distributing 120 tons of flour per day to bakers but this is not enough. There is need for 400 tons of flour to make bread for two million people of the city.
     The regime blames the Mujahideen for shortages of food and fuel. It also holds responsible "hoarders" and has announced an anti-hoarding campaign.
     Fuel comes from the Soviet Union and part of the foodstuff also comes from that country.
     By closure of Kabul-Jalalabad and Kabul-Kandahar roads food is not brought from these two directions. Heavy snow has slowed down transport of food and fuel from Soviet border to the capital.
     The regime had been responsible for transport and purchase of food and fuel Food and fuel were transported by the government transport company or private trucks on government hire.
     The Soviets have announced an airlift of food to die city. It takes 13IL-26 transport planes to bring400 tons of flour. Over a long time this will be a difficult means of supply.
     Fuel, mainly kerosene and diesel which is used for heating, cooking and burning in lamps is in short supply.
     The temperature is usually below zero and the ground is covered with snow.
     If the roads are cut and the Soviets decide to bring fuel by air they will have to airlift 1200 tons of fuel per day, which.is a very difficult job to do.
     Moscow television has criticized the regime for shortages of food and fuel in die capital and has attributed the problem to the inefficiency of the regime and lack of planning.
     The Soviet and regime media are trying to make food shortages a humanitarian cause against the Mujahideen.
     An Afghan listening to the regime’s propaganda on the radio said: "Who is responsible for food shortages in Soviet Union? There are long queues in front of state run shops in the Soviet Union. The system must be blamed, not the Mujahideen.”
     Mujahideen leaders and scholars from several countries participated in a two-day seminar held in Teheran to discuss the future of the Afghan problem.
     The seminar on future cultural, economic, strategic and international aspects of the Afghan problem was sponsored by the political and international office of the Foreign Ministry of Iran. Scholars from eleven countries presented their papers in the conference. UN representatives woe also present
     This was the first such seminar held in Teheran. This indicates the increased interest that Iran has started to take in Afghanistan after die ceasefire in the Gulf.
     The president of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Sayed Ali Khamenie, sent a message to the conference in which he called the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan an obvious victory for the Mujahideen.
      Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, Jami'at leader, told the seminar on Afghanistan that die Mujahideen would always be prepared to resume talks with the Soviets if they were "serious and honest”. "The Mujahideen will never close the door on negotiations," Rabbani said, but he stressed that Soviet Deputy Foreign MinisterYuri Vorontsov, who led Moscow's negotiating team in talks with the Mujahideen, had "threatened" the people of Afghanistan and was trying to use the talks as a political ploy. "Everywhere they talk about peace," he said, "but we are the ones who are dying and they are the aggressors."
     Rabbani said that warnings of a "second Lebanon” in Afghanistan after the expected fall of the Kabul regime following the completion of die Soviet troop withdrawal next month had no purpose but to discourage the Afghan
           Turn to page ( 7 )
Vol 5, No 4                                      February 15,1989
           Dispute over number of seats adjourns Shoora meeting
                  3318 days of occupation ends
     IN accordance with the Geneva agreement Soviet troops left Afghanistan by February 15. Soviet advisors , however, will remain in the country to support the communist regime.
     The last Soviet convoy crossed Salang tunnel on February 11.
     As the Soviet troops started leaving, they handed over their positions to the communist regime troops.
      Soviets have left behind billions of dollars worth of military installations and equipment
     The last days of the Soviet occupation witnessed an escalation of the war. Fighting around the Salang tunnel was heavy. The Soviet used high-altitude bombers and Scud missiles against the Mujahideen.
     Soviet Defense Minister came to Kabul to assure the regime of Soviets continued support. The Deputy Prime Minister of Soviet Union also visited the city to assure the regime of economic support.
     In the last days of their stay, the Soviets tried to put up a humane face by air-lifting food supplies to Kabul which was facing food shortages.
     Najibulla's regime, feeling easy about the departure of the Soviet troops, put Kabul under Martial law on February 4 and issued arms to party members.
     Najib's army faces a test. This will be the first time this army will not have the ground support of the Red Army in battle against the Mujahideen.
     weapons and ammunition are not a problem for the communists. The Soviet Union has left behind enough and is ready to give more if needed.
      But the people cannot eat bullets. Supplies of food for the cities must be
              Turn to page ( 4)
     THE first meeting of the consultative Shoora opened on February 10 but was adjourned indefinitely after two hours of deliberations. The purpose of the meeting of the 520 member Shoora is to discuss the formi-on of a transitional government to replace Najib's regime and pave the way for holding general elections.
     The seven-party Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen decided to form the Consultative Council when it became clear that holding general elections was not possible in the country due to the war situation.
     As the deadline for the Soviet troops withdrawal dragged close, the need for an interim administration became increasingly clear.
     It was decided that each party should send 60 members to the Council, half of whom are were field commanders. Half of the representatives will come from political workers, Ulama and intellectuals. The choice of thesepeople was left to the parties.
     The Supreme Council advised the parties to choose their delegates so that a even representation of all provinces is reflected in the composition of the Council.
     The Supreme Council also proposed 20 seats for "Good Muslims" from Kabul, for example , those peole who are still living in Kabul and work with Najibullah government but are not members of the communist party.
     A scrutiny committee was formed to check the nominees to determine if the meet the qualifications for membership in the Council.
     Sixty seats for the coalition of eight parties in Iran was proposed by the Supreme Council of the Alliance.
     The proposed number of seats was not acceptable to the Iran-based coali-
 tion. They demanded 120 seats. To bridge the gap, a delegation headed by Hikmatyar went to Teheran. No agreement was reached.
     The time set for opening the Shoora was coming close. In a last bid to include the Iran-based parties. Prof. Mojaddidi flew to Teheran on February four. After extensive talks he reached an agreement with the coalition of the Mujahideen based in Iran.
     According to this agreement, 100 seats were given to the coalition, in addition to seven ministerial post in a 28-member cabinet of the proposed interim government.
     This agreement was not acceptable to the rest of the parties and was rejected.
     Prof. Mujaddidi stated that he had got the approval of the Alliance for the deal. His opponents say that they did not approve it.
     Because of this dispute the Iran based parties did not participate in the first meeting of Shoora which was opened on Friday afternoon February 10 in Islamabad.
     To deal with the new development, the meeting of the Council was adjourned indefinitely.
     The spokesman of the Consultative Council said in Islamabad on January 11 that the Alliance was trying to find a solution to this problem so that the Iran-based parties can participate. He said if they decided not to come, the meetings of the . Council would continue.
     The parties opposing more seats to the Iran-based parties are afraid that this will becomes a bargaining chip for future claims by the Shia sects in Afghanistan.
     The Iran-based parties derive their membership from the Shia community.
             Turn to page ( 3 )
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 2
News
From the battlefields
                Carpet-bombing kills 600 in Salang, Scud missile kills 70 in Panjshir
     MORE than 700 people have been killed and 1500 were injured by carpetbombing and firing of Scud missiles in Salang and Panjshir in the past three weeks.
     The unprecedented offensive was launched under the cover of "opening the road for food convoys" but the Mujahideen say that die real reason for the attack was their refusal to negotiate with the Soviets.
     Heavy bombardments of the bases of the Supervisory Council of the North started on January 18, and was carried out day and night
     On January 23 a major offensive was launched against Jami'at bases of Salang and Panjshir.
     These areas came under heavy artillery and rocket fire from the enemy bases in Bagram, Qala-i-Suikh and Senjed-Dara all located in Shemali plateau. At the same time, Russian high-altitude bombers heavily bombed the area. Later the ground forces of the Soviet and the regime armies launched their attack in Salang valley, through which the Salang highway passes.
     Eyewitness reported that more thm 600 people were killed and 1200 were injured in Salang.
     According to the eyewitness all the houses in Salang have been destroyed. The bodies of those killed were buried undo" the rubble of their mud houses or were lying in open air in the villages.
     The enemy established new posts along the highway. On the same day clashes between the Soviets forces and Mujahideen was reported.
     In one incident, three Mujahideen were killed. In another, 10 Soviets and six Mujahideen were killed in Qalatak area of Salang.
     In addition to bombing by air Soviets have fired 21 Scud missiles into the Panjshir valley since January 25. A Scud missile killed 70 people in
 the village of Khench about 60 kilometers inside the valley.
     The enemy has fired seven Scud missiles into Bazarak, six into Rukha, four into Pushgoor and three into Khench.
     Commander Masood, whose forces control Salang and Panjshir said that the reason for the attack was not open-ing the road.
     According to Masood the real reason. for the attack was the refusal of the Mujahideen to hold talks with the Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, Yuri Vorontsov.
     Soviets have been asking for talks with Commander Masood which was turned down.
     Masood said die enemy also wanted to incite the Kabul population against the Supervisory Council of the North.
     The Soviet took a number of elders of Salang as hostages and warned the Mujahideen if they attacked the Soviet convoys, the hostages would lose their lives.
     The Soviet troops also set on fire two buses inside the Salang valley burning about 80 innocent people on January 26.
     A US Government spokesman commenting about the attacks said that Soviet were perusing a "scorched-earth policy".
     UN General Secretary said that he was concerned about the escalation of the war in which a large number of civilians were killed.
     The Soviet attack took place in winter. The ground was covered with snow and temperature was below zoo.
     Destruction of all the houses in Salang and lack of food and medicine is a big problem for die people.
     In the past the Mujahideen reduced the level of their activities in Salang during the winter to avoid reprisal against the civilians.
Before the attack of January 23 the Salang highway was not blocked for food convoys. Some small attacks were taking place but no major offensive was launched by the Mujahideen. The Soviet offensive and the killing of hundreds and injuring thousands and destroying all the villages must have reason other than opening the road.
    More than that, the attacks covered a large area. For example, Khench a village in Panjshir which was hit by Scud missile is about 60 Kilometers away from Salang. How could this at-tack be justified as a defensive measure?
    The commander of Soviet forces in Kabul has confirmed the bombing of the Salang valley. The Soviets say that they had asked the civilian population to leave the area but no such warning was given.
                                             Kandahar Province
    On January 24 the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked communist posts in Baba Sahib Kotal killing 4 militiamen, wounding two and setting on fire one truck. On the same day, they destroyed two enemy posts near the airport. Enemy casualties were not immediately known. The Mujahideen lost nine men and two Mujahideen were wounded.
    The Mujahideen attacked the enemy post in Baba Sahib on January 22 as a result of which five militiamen were injured. One Mujahid was also wounded in the operation.
                                               Farah Province
    A militiaman surrendered to the Mujahideen from Jami'at in Shindand district bringing with him four guns and one rocket launcher.
                                               Herat Province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy post near Puli-Malan on January 25. The post was destroyed and three soldiers with their guns were captured.
The Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Enjeel district on January 25. One truck, one communication set and eight guns were captured. The report does not list the casualties of the two sides.
    The Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Pushtoon Zarghoon district on January 29 .Two enemy soldiers were killed and 35 were captured. The Mujahideen seized 25 guns.
          Turn to page (3)
AFGHANews Vol5, No 4, February 15, 1989, page 3
* BM- 27 system                           * Scud in launch position
 I" ■■■■A cohyoy carrying
 January second to stren^thenthe positibn
 Sdyiet^Afghan border*' '‘ v„y ; . !;"•=;:>;0==--ii:.5
   Recently Soviets have given BM^.iOctc^ the-special Guard Units of the’regit^%aV^   usev&ni
 a^dxL&tt!hesV lg / •
 ;v-;The systetn,codenamed Organ, w^ideploy&I lh'thlkecent at* tM&sinPahjshirahdSalang.               ' V\y.',-; :iC;iCK.s
 ■. 4 The rocket which has a range of 40 Kaio.met^r^;:.d®vers he$d of 360 Kilqgraitis of explosives*         '"V-
 • v\ The system has 1 ^barrels and is mountM-ptt^^ ^
 ■: Scud BM-27 rockets are used again'slrfe^^l^^
 weapons' pose a serious.treat,to the..y illages:;and
                        Pilots defect with two Mi-35 helicopters
   TWO pilots and four officers of the communist regime defected to the Mujahideen in Panjshir bringing with them two Ml-35 helicopters on February 5.
                                                  News
                                                From Page (2)
    The Mujahideen killed an officer and six soldiers of the regime, captured 1‘our soldiers and seized six guns in Jakan area on January 19.
                                            Badghis Province
    One Soviet tank was set on fire, three soldiers were killed and three guns were captured in Sang-i-Aatesh village four kilometers from Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital of the province on January 17.
    Two Mujahideen were killed and four others were injured.
    The Mujahideen killed 10 militiamen wounded an unknown number and seized six guns when they attacked the security post in Qala-i-Naw on January 17.
    The Mujahideen attacked the enemy security posts in the eastern part of Qala-i-Naw on January 15. Seven militiamen were killed and four were wounded. The Mujahideen captured four guns and some ammunition. Two Mujahideen were injured.
    These operations were launched under the command of Naik Mohammad, Jami'at commander in Badghis.
                                             Kabul Province
    The Mujahideen of Paghman shot down two enemy jets.
    A MIG-27 jet of the enemy which was bombing Paghman valley was hit by Mujahideen anti-aircraft guns and crashed on January 17. The pilot of the plane was killed. On January 18 an enemy jet of Su-22 type was also shot down by the Mujahideen.
Shoora
From Page ( 1)
 They claim that Shias are 1/4 of the whole population of Afghanistan. The official census estimated die Shia sects as 8% of the population.
     It is believed that the designated government of Engineer Ahmad Shah will be proposed to the council for a vote of confidence.
     No major field commander is taking part in the meetings. The weather and military situation does not permit their participation. They will be represented by their delegates.
     One of the helicopters was flown by Major Aarif from Andarab District and the other by Abdul Hay from Panjshir.
     This is the first time that pilots defecting to the Mujahideen bring their helicopters with them. In the past some pilots landed their helicopter in Pakistan and surrendered them to the Pakistani authorities.
     Ml-35 helicopters are the most modem helicopters delivered to the regime in 1988.
     The pilots were welcomed by the Mujahideen.
     Bombing of the bases of the Supervisory Council of the North by the Soviets continues. On February three, Khailab valley in Eshkamish district was bombed and on February four and five Worsaj valley was heavily bombed. No details about the casualties were available.
    Soviet forces fired two Scud missiles into Panjshir on February four one of which hit a mountainous area in Bazarak and the other landed in Rukha, a town in the middle of the valley. Casualties were not reported.
    Eighty five regimes's soldiers have killed their four officers and joined the Mujahideen in Salang.
    The soldiers were stationed in the posts which were established along the
Salang highway on January 23.
                                                Regime's . plane crashes in Pakistan
    A transport plane belonging to the regime and which had entered Pakistan crashed near the town of Bannu in North-West Frontier Province killing all 9 of its occupants on February 1.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 4
  Editorial
                                   Food aid to cities should not prolong war
    FOOD shortages in Afghanistan are a creation of war. In the past ten years the rural areas were the most affected by food shortages. Food shortages were a major factor in forcing the population to became refugees.
    Recently this problem has struck the cities, especially Kabul the capital of the country.
    The people who live in Kabul are mainly supporters of the resistance who have been opposing the Soviet invasion by one way or the other. Among them are elderly, children and women who deserve sympathy.
    But the cities are also under the control of the regime and Kabul is the center of the political and military organizations of the regime, In these cities, thousands of criminals, like KHAD agents, members of PDPA and units of the puppet army, are living.
    The problem has two dimensions: humanitarian and military.
    As far as the humanitarian aspect of the problem is concerned the Mujahideen must do everything possible to alleviate the suffering of the ordinary people and the vulnerable groups in the cities.
    An example was set by sending food stuffs to the inhabitants of Jalalabad and its surrounding areas.
    The military objective of the resistance is to overthrow the communist regime in the shortest possible time.Cutting the communication lines of the enemy is the most effective way to bring the war to a quick end. If the enemy cannot feed its army and provide fuel for its vehicles the military machine of the enemy comes to a stand still.
    If the Mujahideen do not make use of this tactic they will be forced to launch direct attacks against the city which will result in killing of thousands of people.
    One point must be bom in mind, that is the irreconcilable nature of the two sides in the conflict Since political means have not worked to find a solution to the problem and the Soviets are not ready to abstain from supporting the puppet regime, military confrontation is inevitable.
    On the other hand, if victory is not achieved in a relatively short period of time, the problem could become more complicated with new dimensions. It is necessary for the Mujahideen to act quickly and decisively to end the war. Therefore, there is a need for a balanced policy to take care of both aspects of the problem.
    The Mujahideen parties should adopt a policy to win the war in a short period of time but at the same time pay attention to the basic needs of the people who are sympathetic to the cause.
    The communist regime in Kabul, playing on the good feeling of the world community, asked for international assistance for the needy people in the cit-ies.The UN acted quickly and prepared to airlift food and medicine to Kabul. The Mujahideen parties agreed to the program on humanitarian grounds. While the UN intends to deliver the aid on purely humanitarian grounds to the vulnerable groups, there are serious doubts about the intentions of the communist regime in Kabul. In the corrupt system of Najib, the privileged people like KHAD agents and party members will get the aid. As always, the ordinary people for whom the aid is intended will suffer.
    The scale of assistance is as critical as the way it is distributed. The UN should avoid involving itself in giving any aid to the regime because it will prolong its illegal life.
    The people in the city should know that their suffering will not end unless the communist regime is destroyed. They should cooperate with the Mujahideen to destroy the regime. If the Mujahideen action from outside is supported by proper activities from within, the agony of the nation will end.
Victory
 From page (7)
pose PDPA on the people of Afghanistan, there would be little chance of similar attempts in other countries.
    The victory of the Mujahideen is giving heart to all Muslims. The Mujahideen are Muslims and they have won the war which was fought under the banner of Islam.
    Muslims see God's support in the Mujahideen side. A high ranking official from a Middle-East country said to a Mujahideen leader "We are proud of you because you won a victory after decades of failure of the Islamic world in different fronts".
    The real winners however are the Afghan people. They started the war with empty hands. They gave everything they had to regain freedom of Afghanistan. They deserve to be happy and proud about the great job they have done.
    Minds are pre-occupied with future system in the country and defeating the communist regime. This preoccupation may not let Afghans to celebrate their victory in a big way.
    Despite all the difficulties ahead, a major part of the job is done. Soviet have gone and they can not dare to come in Afghanistan or go to any other small neighboring countries. Soviets will be busy in self criticism of their abortive invasion of Afghanistan in the next few decades.
    The present leadership in Moscow accuses Marshal Brezenev of committing the mistake to invade Afghanistan. The criticism is directed towards the feasibility of the war not that its aim was not correct The continued support of the Kabul regime and heavy bombardments of civilian targets show that Gorbachev record in committing atrocities is not very different from Biezenev's.
Occupation ends
                                           From page (1) ,
transported from outside the country. The regime will have tremendous difficulties in keeping the roads to the capital and other cities open.
   The Soviets announced loosing 2000 soldiers since May 15, .1988 when the Geneva Accord was put in action. With this new figure, the Soviet death toll reaches 15000.
   The people of Afghanistan lost 1,000,000 persons most of whom were civilians.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 5
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Fazlullah
     DR. FAZLULLAH, Jami’at commander in Logar province, was bom 30 years ago in a small village called Baba in Baraki iarak District. His father, Abdul lai, was a spiritual man from Vlujaddidi’s family. The people of Logar province respected azlullah's family. His family lelped villagers to learn Holy Quran and understand the basics of Islam.
     Fazlullah leamt about religion and how to deal with the people from his father and his elder brothers. His father was solving the local problems much better than the government officers in the district.
     Fazlullah went to the primary school in Baraki Rajan and then to a ugh school in the district. "He was a hard-working and talented student He showed great interest in natural sciences." remembered one of Fazlullah's classmates.
     He was in the ninth grade in 1973 when his elder brother, Haroon, encouraged him to work with other young students belonging to the Islamic Movement Together they promoted Islamic ideas among the students in school.
      Fazlullah entered Medical Faculty of Kabul University in 1976. He was a known activist of the Islamic Movement in Logar province. He met for the first time Prof. Rabbani in late 1976 in Kabul.
      Fazlullah was in die second year of the Medical Faculty when the communists seized power through a military coup. He left his studies and came to Peshawar to work for Jami’aL He stayed about one year in Peshawar and went back to Logar. "It was in Du Bandy district that Fazlullah started his military activities against the communist regime. He established the first base of Jamiat in Du BandL" said his representative.
      When he was visiting Peshawar, Prof. Rabbani sent him to Zahidan of Iran to work in Jami*at office. He stayed in Zahidan for a short time and returned to Peshawar. Commander Fazlullah went back to Du Bandi in 1980 and since than he has been spending most of his time inside the country.
       Commander Fazlullah, known as Dr. Fazlullah, built his organization from scratch. He played a key role in strengthening Jami’at's position in the province. Fazlullah provided a young
 and dynamic leadership for members of Jami'at.
     Logar province is strategically important Throughout the war Logar was used as the supply route of about 17 provinces of Central and Northern Afghanistan. Logar situated South of Kabul is called the 'gate of Kabul.'
     Logar was important to the Soviets too. The road to Paktia province passes through Logar.
     The Mujahideen's tasks in Logar were:
     (a)     to provide security for the Mujahideen's supply lines
     (b)    to cut the supply line of die enemy to Paktia
     (c)    and to attack government security posts and garrisons in the province
     Besides the military tasks, the Mujahideen had to build a civilian organization to deal with the nonmilitary issues.
     Fazlullah did both tasks. His forces were active militarily and he was took deep interest in helping civilian population. He established schools and medical clinics in the area and persuaded hu-
manitarian organization to channel their limited help to the needy people in his area.
     He has made an executive council through which he runs his organization and has established committees like agriculture, financial, education, medical and Judicial.
     Fazlullah is a political-minded commander. He went all the way to Ghor province to participate in the meeting of Saghar initiated by commander Ismail Khan. He has good relations with all the parties present in Logar. He has also good relations with group commanders active in the South of Kabul. He has close contacts with the commanders from Ghazni, Wardak, Paktia and Paktika. He knows personally Commander Masood of Panjshir and is one of his admirers.
     In December 1988, he held a meeting with different Jami'at commanders from Paktia, Paktika, Ghazni, Wardak and South of Kabul. Around 200 commanders and Mujahideen participated in the meeting . The meeting resulted in die creation of a council to help coordinate military activities in the mentioned areas.
     Commander Fazlullah is married and has a son and a daughter.
           Soviet Muslims denounce official clergy
     MORE than 200 muslims demonstrated in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan Republic, in die first week of February to show their displeasure with the behavior of the official clergy in Uzbekistan Republic.
     The demonstrators marched from die city Mosque to the center of the town blocking traffic.
     According to news agencies, the demonstrators accused the head of the official clergy of drinking Alcohol and having un-Isiamic relation with women.
     The Prime Minister of Uzbakistan visited representatives of the demonstrators. The head of the official clergy resigned from his post
     Uzbakistan is arepublk in Central Asia whose population is Muslims. Communists suppressed Muslims by bringing their mosques under die state control and appointing clergy to run them.
     The state measures to promote atheism and suppress religion foiled. The Islamic revolution in Iran and the war in Afghanistan has given new hopes for the Muslim believers in
Central Aria.
     Soviet officials in the past tried to show that they allow religious freedom in the country. They allowed a handful of people to go to Mecca to perform Haj (pilgrimage). A Saudi official in charge of pilgrimage security said that Soviets sent a few individuals to perform Haj. "Year after year the same group of people come to perform Haj.” he said
   Movement
                                             From page (6)
the Movement exploited that opportunity.
   Id the years of the exile, some ol‘ our friends had gone to meet there families but I always said: "I will not go by the road. I return by the same route (mountains) that I was chased out or my town."
   At that time it was just a dream Almighty Allah fulfilled the dream and I returned to Afghanistan through the mountains in 1979.
 ---------------------AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 6
 Evolution of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan Part (4)
   Life in exile from 1975 to 1978
     I and my brother arrived in Peshawar in the fall of 1975. We were given new names so that our true identity should not be revealed
     Friends were living in two houses in the city. First I met Gulbuddin Hikmatyar who was my college classmate.
     The next day I visited Prof, itabbani who was living with some friends in a separate building.
     Two days after our arrival one of the friends started to talk about differences among brothers. He was criticizing the operations launched against the Daud regime and attributed their failure to improper planning.
     This was surprising to me. I asked Masood about it and he told me that there were problems.
     As the time passed it became clear that friends had been divided into two groups. One group was headed by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and other by Prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami'at.
     There was a group of friends who were trying to solve the problems. They were acting as mediators. Commander Masood and Nasrullah (who was later captured and killed by the communist regime) were busy doing this job.
     I asked Hikmatyar about the problems. He described how some people were demoralized and made unfair remarks against the armed struggle against Daud's regime. He complained that those people were close to Prof. Rabbani.
     Prof. Rabbani as usual never spoke about the differences. It seemed that he did not want to make diem public.
     I did not take sides with any group and started to do what I could to support the cause.
     There were more than 100 single Mujahideen and about three hundred families.
     The Bachelor Mujahideen were from different parts of Afghanistan but the families came mainly from the provinces of Kunar, Ningarhar and Paktia.
     From talking to both sides, I started to understand the root cause of the problems.
     In 1974 Prof. Rabbani who was the leader of the movement managed to get out of the country. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and other friend also joined him. After getting assurance of support from the Pakistani authorities, they started to work. Prof. Rabbani was the
 undisputed leader of the Movement and beside other friends Hikmatyar was also involved.
     The movement decided to arm some of its members and use them at a proper place and time.
     Prof. Rabbani went to Saudi Arabia to plead his cause with the leaders of the Muslim world. He stayed in Saudi Arabia for six months.
     These six months provided a good opportunity for Hikmatyar to establish himself among friends. Friends were brought to undergo a short period of training. To those who were aware of the organizational structure he always showed obedience to Prof. Rabbani but to the new ones he claimed to be the leader.
     Prof. Rabbani sent some letters to friends in Peshawar cautioning against hasty military actions against the Daud regime. These letters were used against him as a sign of compromise with Daud a proof of abandoning the revolutionary path.
     When prof. Rabbani arrived in Peshawar he was told that the plan for action was ready. When he asked questions about the feasibility of the operations he was answered with revolutionary slogans. Probably it was not possible for the Professor to do anything at that moment. Attacks were launched in Panjshir, Kunar, Ningarhar, Laghman and Paktia.
     In Kunar a few communists were killed. Laghman was a disaster. Most of those involved were captured before they launched the operation. In other areas also the actions were not successful.
     Militarily speaking the whole .operation was a failure. It came to a quick end with a lot of losses .
     No doubt there was a legitimate reason for criticisms. But those who were responsible refused to answer. This attitude led to the division of Jami'at. A new group under the leadership of Hikmatyar was formed which was named Hezb Islami Afghanistan (the Islamic Party of Afghanistan ).
     The new party adopted an aggressive approach. It published leaflets and booklets revealing the differences. Prof. Rabbani refused to do a similar thing. He was afraid that writing about these differences could lead to to permanent division.
     Both groups tried to organize their followers both in exile and in the country. A limited amount of educational work started. They also started to organize cells in the countrty and work
 within die army.
     Life in exile provided a good opportunity to look back at what had happened . This gave opportunity to some people to read about other movements and the way they were fighting. These efforts paid off and one can see the result of that in the organized work shown by commander Masood.
     There were basic differences in each group’s approach to the problems facing the movement. At that time it was difficult to explain the differences but later Jami’at and Hezb showed in action that despite general allegiance to basic principles of Islam they had different way of reaching their aims.
     A study of the ways these parties conducted the war, organized themselves, dealt with the people and treated their enemies will clarify the difference between the two.
     The three years in exile, from 1975 to 1978, was a depressing period. It was depressing because of the division inside the movement and lack of positive activities.
     Despite the general depression these three years were very educative. It opened our eyes about the hard realities of our society and the difficulties we were facing to achieve our aims. It gave us opportunity to look at other movements which had undergone similar experiences. It was a period to test friends in the real world.
     The coup of 1978 changed the situation. Within a few days people started to flee the country. The two parties, Jami'at and Hezb provided sanctuary for them. The communists’ oppressive rule was pushing the people to extreme choice of taking arms and the Movement became a source of hope for these people.
     The members of the Islamic movement moved back to the country with few guns and started to lead the uprising against the communist regime.
     The same people who had raised against the movement in 1975, become its supporters. Why such a big change had taken place in such a short span of time? The answer to that was the oppressive rule of the communists who forced the people to take sides with the movement.
     This fact rejects the claims of the Soviets and the communists that the regime became a target of subversive activities from outside. The internal situation for armed uprising was ripe anc
                                                                                                                            Turn to page (5)
■AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15,1989, page 7
From the diary of Jehad by :Abu Amina
 A Mujahida from Khanaiz
     THE Afghan Jehad is like an ocean. The world can see only a small portion of its surface. Deep within it lie thousands of marvels hidden from casual observers.
     One aspect of Jehad that remains hidden is the role of women in Jehad. Although women rarely participate in military activities, their support of the Jehad is so crucial that without it Jehad could never reach the level it has today.
     The role of women in Jehad is not limited to passive support, i.e., not objecting to their menfolk joining the re-sistance.Rather they encourage their sons, husbands and brothers to fight the enemy by any means they can. When the Russian agents came to power by a coup d'etat in April 1978,1 remember my mother saying: "I have seven sons. I would not make the milk 1 have fed to them lawful (which means "1 curse them" or "I will be displeased with them") if they are not at the forefront of the struggle against the enemies of God and Islam."
     But the role of women is not limited even to this verbal encouragement.
 Girls and women of the large cities have organized and participated in huge demonstrations against the Russians and their agents when it was possible to do so. Tens of them were martyred and thousands were wounded, imprisoned, or expelled from schools. Many young girls and aged women still participate in guerrilla activities inside the cities.
     Women in die countryside bear the burden of providing all kind of services to Mujahideen under extremely harsh conditions. It is not possible to give a detailed account of all die sacrifices rendered by women. To give an idea, we can mention the story of the heroic lady of Khanaiz, a village in Panjshir valley, which was told by Commander Masood to Prof. Rabbani when they were driving by the village in Panjshir.
     She was an aged woman living with her husband, a teenaged son, a teenaged daughter and three other children. The Russian attack disturbed their happy life. Her husband joined the Mujahideen and she was forced to look after the family singlehandedly. The Russian troops reached near Khanaiz. The residents migrated to other areas or
 took shelter in the mountains, but the lady decided to stay in the village and bake bread for the Mujahideen. Many times she was seen collecting pieces of wood that had fallen from the trees because of the Russian bombing while the bombardment was still going on. She would bum. the wood in her "ta-noor" (open oven for baking bread) to make bread for Mujahideen.
     Her husband was martyred in the fighting. It did not bring any change in her routine service however. Her teenaged daughter was martyred in a bombardment. It was at a time whoa she was baking bread. She brought the body near the tanoor, put a blanket over it and continued making bread. Finally her teenage son, who used to take the bread from home to the battlefield, was martyred. When the Mujahideen came to find out why the bread delivery was delayed, they encountered a calm and composed lady who told them: "My sons, I am sorry that my teenaged son is martyred. Now I do not have anyone to take the bread to you. I'll continue making bread. Would you please send someone to take it to the battlefield?"
     She was the last one to leave Khanaiz with her children, after the Mujahideen had withdrawn from their positions near the village.
     Soviets troop withdrawal historical victory
                for Afghan people
     NINE years, one month and 18 days of occupation of Afghanistan came to an end when the last Soviet soldier crossed the border of the two countries on February 15.
      The liberation of Afghanistan is one of the most important events of our time. On December 1979 Soviet army moved into Afghanistan to save a client regime which was facing threat from its people. When they left on February 15, 1989, it was clear that they had failed in their mission. The regime of Najibullah is not popular and is facing a strong resistance.
      A proud army which had been victorious in World War II and had crushed many uprisings in Eastern Europe, failed to achieve its aim when faced the Mujahideen who were ill-armed and disorganized . This failure will have a tremendous effect on the future behavior of the Soviet Union and its armed forces.
      The people of Afghanistan did a marvelous job in die war of liberation. Nobody believed that Afghans could turn the tide back and force the Soviets
                                                               By Habib
 out of their country. Their strong belief in religion made them unconquerable. More than 9 years of bombing, burning, execution, torture and starvation could not break the will of the Mujahideen.
     Afghans paid a dear price for the freedom of their country. About a million people were killed, five millions became refugees, thousands were maimed. Cities, towns, villages, farms and gardens were destroyed. Air was filled with poisonous gasses and the land was covered with mines. Finally these sacrifices paid off and the Soviet leaders realized . that the war in Afghanistan was not winnable.
     The international community did his part in support of Afghans. Neighboring countries of Pakistan and Iran hosted the bulk of refugees and paid a dear price for their hospitality when the Soviets and their agents in Kabul carried out sabotage activities against the people of these countries.
     The rest of the world helped politically and materially. This act of solidarity with the cause of freedom put addi-
tional pressure on the Soviets to withdraw from Afghanistan.
     Hundreds of men and women riskec their lives to take humanitarian assistance to the needy Afghans or cover the war and bring the true story of suffering of a nation. All these people deserve appreciation for what they have done and have a right to be happy that Afghanistan is free from the Soviet occupation.
     The liberation of Afghanistan wi] I have a positive implication for the International peace and stability Soviets and other military powers will refrain from taking adventurous steps against weaker nations. The victory oi: Afghans gives a moral boost to the Islamic and third world countries to rely on themselves rather than the support of the outside powers.
     The Soviet failure in Afghanistan will pass a signal to all the minority parties who like to lake power in their countries with the help of foreign supporters. If Soviet Union could not im-
           Tum to page ( 4)
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 4, February 15, 1989, page 8
                     Kabul regime sends food to Tajikistan
     WHEN the people of Kabul were facing severe food shortages the communist regime of Najibullah sent food aid to the victims of Armenia and Tajikistan earthquakes in the Soviet Union, radio of the regime reported on February 4.
     Five tons of dry fruits and other food stuff were sent to the victims of the Tajikistan earthquake.
     Earlier the regime, had announced sending a plane-load $200,000 worth of relief good to the victims of the Armenia earthquake.
     The relief goods included nuts, dry fruits and woolen products,
     Kabul, the capital of the country which is under control of the regime is facing food shortages.
     Reports reaching Peshawar talk of large queues in front of bakeries.
     Report of looting bread delivery trucks and some shops has also been repented.
     The regime put the blame of the food shortages on the Mujahideen who according to the regime, block the roads and confiscate food stuff.
     It is ironic to see that a country as devastated as Afghanistan shall try to help a Super Power . "Pleasing the Soviets" is the game played by the regime in Kabul.
                                                 Soviets accused of sowing new mines
    A UN investigation panel has accused the Soviet Union of sowing new land mines as it began to withdraw last summer.
    In a report to the UN Economic and Social Council the investigators said, Soviets had sown from 5 to 30 million land mines in Afghanistan, most of which were anti-personnel planted in civilian areas.
     A UN rehabilitation team has started to train Afghan refugees in mine-clearing operations in Pakistan.
     More than 3 million Afghan refugees live in Pakistan. Land mines planted by the Soviets are blocking refugee's return to their country.
     The Soviet Union has refused to provide maps of the mine fields.
        UN sends food, drug to Kabul
     THE UN has decided to said emergency food and medical supplies to Kabul. UN Coordinator of Humanitarian and Economic Assistance in relation to Afghanistan arrived Pakistan on February five to organize the airlift of about 400 tons of food and medicine to KabuL
     Prince Sadruddin also held talks with Pakistani leaders to discuss with them the problems of refugees repatriation.
     UN has planned a three-staged assistance program. Theses are giving emergency food assistance, repatriation of refugees and reconstruction of the country.
     Prince Sadruddin met with Mujahideen leaders and asked them to permit airlift of emergency food and medical supplies to Kabul which was accepting by the Mujahideen leader on humanitarian grounds.
     The Mujahideen are worried that food assistance should not be carried in such a manner and scale to prolong the life of the regime.
     Similar concerns have also been expressed by British and French governments.
     Earlier the prime Minister of the regime had asked for emergency food supplies to Kabul and other towns which are besieged by the Mujahideen.
     All western countries have closed their embassies in Kabul for security reasons. The remaining embassies have decreased the number of their staff and have sent out the families of the remaining staff.
     Kabul regime has accused western countries of promoting fear by withdrawing their diplomats.
     UN has been facing problems in finding charter planes to take supplies to Kabul.
     The crew of an Egyptian cargo aircraft refused to fly to Kabul due to security problems.
     Finally an Ethiopian Airlines took the first consignment of supplies to Kabul on February 10. The UN has planned nine flights to Kabul from Pakistan.
     UN officials have said that the food will be distributed among the vulnerable groups. The Mujahideen think that regime will distribute the food among its supports and will use it for propaganda purposes.
             Prof. Rabbani asks UN to condemn Soviets massacre of civilians
     THE Jami’at leader has called the Soviet offensive in Salang and Panjshir a massacre of innocent civilians.
     In message sent to the UN General Secretary Prof. Rabbani said that Soviet killed 600 innocent civilians and injured more than one thousand in Salang in eme day.
     He said that the pretext that the attack was carried out to open the road for food convoys was totally false. "The Mujahideen never closed the road for food convoys and withdrawing Soviet troops." Prof. Rabbani said.
     The Mujahideen leader said that food shortages in Kabul was used by the Soviets as a cover for their atrocities.
     Prof. Rabbani asked the Secretary General not only to condemn die crime but also to put pressure on the Soviets to stop this type action.
     He said that die Afghan people had suffered a lot and would have been very sad if they continued to suffer while the world was jubilant over the Soviet
troop withdrawal.
     Prof. Rabbani also has sent similar message to the head of states and governments of friendly countries.
                                                            Alliance sends food to Jalalabad
     THE Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen have sent40 Lames of flour, dry milk, edible oil, medicine and other essential supplies to the people in and around Klald»dil£pmrintialcaitial of Ningadiar province.
     The Mujahideen brought Toikham-Jalalabad road undo'control some weeks ago.
     At the same time the Mujahideen cut the Kabul-Jalalabadroad. As a result of continued figfr-ing and road blocks food dxmages became a problem fanhe popManin and around Jalalabad dty.
     To alleviate the difficulties of the people the Supreme Council cf the Alliance derided to send food assistance to the people which was distributed fee by the local Mujahideen commatieis.