 Vol 5, No 15                                      August 1, 1989
         Hikmatyar's men kill 30 Jami'at commanders, Mujahideen
               US, USSR
               discuss Afghan war
     The US and the Soviet Union discussed the Afghan issue in a two-day meeting which began on July 31 in Stockholm.
     This was the first meeting between the two sides since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan on February 15.
     Pakistan Foreign Minister, Sahibzada Yaqoub Khan, left Islamabad for Washington to discuss the Afghan situation with his American counterpart before the start of the talks.
     The Soviets had said that they would propose arms cuta for both sides in the conflict.
     The American side may not agree with the proposal because it will weaken the Mujahideen position. An arms embargo was proposed by America when the Geneva accord was being prepared but the Soviet Union rejected it on the grounds that it was against the treaties it had signed with the Kabul regime.
      Since then, a large amount of arms and ammunitions have been either left by the Soviet army or has been sent by road or air. Bach day 40 transport planes land at Kabul airport bringing supplies, mainly weapons, to the regime.
      The supporters of the Mujahideen fed that arms an embargo will put the resistance in a disadvantageous position vis-a-vis the well-armed communist regime.
      The Stockholm talks may not result in any important decision. It helps the two sides to describe their stated positions once more.
      For the resistance talks about Afghanistan in its absence have always been a source of concern.
      Geneva talks between Pakistan and the regime which were guaranteed by the two super powers were conducted
                Turn to page (2)
     Thirty Jami'at commanders and Mujahideen were killed by Hezb Islami in Takhar province on July 9.
     According toa report sent by Ahmad Shah Masood when the Jami'at commandos were returning home after a five-day meeting in Ferkhar some of them were attacked by Hezb Islami Mujahideen under the command of Sayed Jamal in Tangi-e-Ferkhar, a gorge half-way between Ferkhar district and Taleqan.
     Commander Abdul Wadood and four Mujahideen were killed on the spot and 25 commanders and Mujahideen were taken prisoner. The prisoners woe executed the next day. Those killed by Hezb were:
     1-    Dr. Sayed Husain, an important figure in the Supervisory Council.
     2-     Commander Tariq and his brother.
     3- Commander Islam uddin
     4- Mawlawi Ezatullah
     ,5- Commander Payenda Mohammad
     6- 19 junior commanders and Mujahideen.
     There was no tension in the area at the time of the tragedy to provoke the killing.
      It was reported earlier that the Mujahideen in Taleqan had reached an agreement to cooperate in provision of security for the city and keeping the roads open.
      The meeting in Ferkhar was convened to discuss the military plans against the Kabul regime. Jami'at commanders from Takhar, Baghlan, Kunduz and Badakhshan provinces participated in the meeting.
      On the way to the meeting some Jami'at commanders crossed Tangi-i-Ferkhar which is controlled by Hezb. At the end of the meeting they wanted to do the same.
      The scale and manner of killing do
 not have any precedent in the history of differences among die Mujahideen.This killing shocked Afghans and those concerned about the liberation of Afghanistan.
     Jami'at leadership was shocked by the loss of its important members. The Mujahideen belonging to other parties were also saddened by the incident.
     In a press release, Jami'at accused the Hezb leadership of involvement in the tragedy. Jami'at believes that without encouragement from the Hezb leadership which has a wireless link with Sayed Jamal, he could not have committed the crime because of the fear of reprisal.
     Hezb’s public reaction to the incident has been contradictory. The head of the Political Committee of Hezb, while confirming the killing, attributed it to a local clash between Hezb and the Council of North.
     A member of the Political Office of Hezb told the Persian service of the BBC that Masood was responsible for the incident He accused Masood of spreading his influence in the North and said that it was the duty of the Mujahideen to stop his activities.
      When the outcry against the massacre continued unabated, Afghan News Agency, which is controlled by Hezb, published an interview with the Hezb leader, deploring the killing. Hezb's statement called the massacre a clash between the two local groups.
      The Hezb leader did not say what he would do to those who had killed 30 people. It is believed that Hezb's final position is shaped by the pressure from public opinion and is designed to avoid further damage to the reputation of the party.
      Prof. Mujaddidi, the President o ’ the Interim Government of
                                                                                                                         Turn to page (2 )
AFGHANews Vol5, No 15, August 1,1989, page©
   News
 tftf
From the battlefields
                                                  Herat province
     On July 4, the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy post of Rawza Bagh in Guzara district One militiaman was killed and two were wounded.
     On July 5, the Mujahideen killed four communist officers and captured three soldiers in Adraskan district. Seven guns were seized in the operation.
     On July 6, two enemy tanks were destroyed and an unknown number of enemy troops were killed or wounded when the Mujahideen fired rockets into their positions in Kariz Soft of Guzara district.
     On July 9, the Mujahideen from Jami'at liberated three villages in Kariz Sob area killing 27 militiamen and wounding 25. Two Mujahideen were killed in the operation.
     On July 8, the Mujahideen ambushed a unit of the enemy army close to the city killing seven soldiers and capturing eight. The Mujahideen seized one radio set and 15 Kalashnikov rifles.
     On July 11, Mujahideen attacked enemy posts in Guzara district capturing 15 militiamen and seizing 13 Kalashnikov rifles, one radio set one 14.6 millimeter gun, one mortar, one truck and some ammunition.
     One of the Mujahideen, junior commander Abdul Qadir, was killed and one Mujahid was injured.
     The Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan destroyed three jets on the ground and killed or wounded 27 soldiers and officers of the regime when they attacked Herat airport with rockets on July 24.
     On July 11, the Mujahideen captured eleven armed soldiers near Chashma-e-Khoni on the Herat-KandaharRoad.
     On July 20, the Mujahideen killed 10 militiamen and captured 14 when they attacked Pahra village.
    On the same day, one enemy tank was destroyed in the Rubat-Jebreel area. The Mujahideen killed two soldiers in Guzara district and captured two weapons.
    The Mujahideen have killed Juma Liksak, an important militia figure and five of his men in Guzara, west of the city.
                                                   Paktia province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured Zaria Ghonday post in Khost district after four hours of fighting on July 19.
    Three enemy militiamen were killed and seven were injured. The Mujahideen seized three Kalashnikov rifles, some ammunition and food stuff.
    One Mujahid was also killed in the operation.
                                                   US, USSR talks
                                                          From page (1)
 and concluded against the wishes of the resistance.
    The prevailing military situation has also made the Soviets less flexible as for as the future of the regime is concerned. <
    Contrary to earlier predictions, the regime has survived at least six months after the Soviets troop withdrawal. This has built confidence in the regime and the Soviets. They will not be ready to negotiate replacement of the communist regime which is the first requirement of any acceptable peace formula for the resistance.
    Inability of the interim government to broaden its base and the recent massacre of Jami'at commanders by Hezb has provided further hope for the regime which fights the difficult war of survival.
    Any political initiative that could lead to an acceptable peace formula will come after the present military situation has changed in favor of the Mujahideen.
 30 commanders killed
       From page (1)
 Afghanistan, showed great distaste over the tragedy. He told Voice of America that Hezb (Hikmatyar) had been involved in the killing of commanders belonging to his party and others in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He demanded the trial of those responsible in Fetkahar killing by an Islamic court
    Sayed Ahmad Gailani, the leader of NIFA, while deploring the killing fold Voice of America that the massacre could not be the result of a personal feud between individuals.
    The US State Department deplored the massacre. The media coverage of the incident was extensive. The reason for this special interest was the scale of the tragedy and the time at which it happened.
    Jami'at's way of handling the incident is also interesting. So far there is no news of military action against the culprits. Taking military actions against Sayyed Jamal is within the means of Jami'at, which is a leading force in the area. Masood certainly is under great pressure from his Mujahideen and the relatives of those killed to take action against those responsible. But Masood has a history of tolerance and diversion of attention from petty issues to the main issues. The major problem for him is the fight against the communist regime.
    Jami'at headquarters in Peshawar abandoned its traditional policy of playing down the differences between Mujahideen by public condemnation of the massacre. The reason according to the press release of Jami’at is the scale of the tragedy and the manner in which it was committed.
    Jami'at knows that such a tragedy could not be hidden in a free society. There were some foreign journalists dose fo the area where the incident took place. They would have come out with die story.
    Jami'at thinks that publicizing the dimensions of the tragedy will put pressure on Hezb to stop it from committing further crimes. Public opinion can check the irresponsible behavior of the party which is a candidate fo rule free Afghanistan.
    The incident has given the Kabul regime propaganda leverage against the Mujahideen. It is being used to frighten people away from the Mujahideen.
    Jami’at proposal to defuse the tension is practical. Those responsible for the unprovoked massacre should be handed over to a body of Ulama to be tried under Islamic law within the country.
AFGHANews Vol5, No 1 5, August 1, 1989, page©
Obituaries
Commander Islamuddin
     Islamuddin was bom in an Uzbak family in Aaqpara village of Eshkamish 34 years ago.
     His father, Wali Mohammad, liked for his son to study Islam. After primary education in the mosque school of his village, he went to Takharistan ma-drasa in Kunduz. After graduating from Takhristan he went to Kabul Arabic Darul-Ulum, a semi official religious school. Islamuddin became a student of the faculty of Islamic law (Sharayat) in Kabul University where he made personal contact with the core of the Islamic Movement among the professors and students.
     During Daud's oppressive rule about 300 members of the Islamic Movement were jailed. Islamuddin served as a means of contact between the jail and the leadership of the Movement outside. His services in providing clothes, food and other needs of the prisoners were very valuable.
     After graduating from the Faculty of Islamic Law, he was put into the military service. During his service in the army the communist took power. Most of those who were going to mosque to offer their regular prayers stopped to do so because of fear of the
     Abdul Wadood son of Mullah Maqsood was bom in Pul-i-Qaf village of Talegan, the provincial capital of Takhar, in the spring of 1949. After completing primary school his father sent him to a Madrasa (religious school) to learn about Islam. After some time he was recruited, to the army.
     When he returned, his falhnr had died. He had to shoulder the burden of supporting the family and he could not continue his studies. But he sent his youngerbrother, Abdul Mawjood to Takharistan Madrasa to learn about Islam. Abdul Mawjood was killed in fighting against the Soviet in 1986.
     After the communist coup of 1978, he became active against the government. He and his cousin. Martyr Kishwari, worked hard to mobilize people against the communists. Due to shortages of arms and a limited number of Mujahideen Mullah worked secretly. His activities were discovered by the enemy and he was jailed. He was tortured by the communists to reveal the identity of his friends but he refused to do so. He was transferred to Kunduz
communists. But, Islamuddin was an exception. His courage did not permit him to hide his faith in God.
     He came to Peshawar in 1978. In 1979 he accompanied the first group of Mujahideen to Badakhshan and later established his base in Sharshar of Eshkamish. He launched operations against the regime and Soviets in Kunduz, Khanabad and Nahrin in cooperation with the local Mujahideen.
     His base was the host of the first meeting of the Supervisory Council.
     He fought a difficult battle against the Soviets in 1983 when they attacked his base. Many of his men were killed. This increased his popularity among the local population.
     His Mujahideen took part n different operations launched by the Supervisory Council of the North.
     In 1987 he participated in the attack against Burka garrison which was captured by the Mujahideen
     He was killed on June 10 by Hezb Islami and his body was dropped into the river to be recovered later. He was leading about 800 armed Mujahideen in Eshkamish district.
     He has left behind a widow and two children.
Jail which was well protected.
    Abdul Wadood was freed when the Mujahideen attacked the prison and released the prisoners in the fall of 1979.
    During Mullah’s detention activities against the regime did not stop. His brother along with other Mujahideen at-
 tacked regime supporters and captured their weapons. They killed several important communists in Taliqan. These actions were supported by the people because those communists were very oppressive in their dealings with ordinary people.
    Mullah became an important Mujahideen figure in Talaqan and gathered a big force around himself.
    Mullah had realized that individual actions were not enough to drive the Soviets out and establish a stable government When Commander Masood contacted him about formation of the Supervisory Council he accepted the idea and offered his resources for the reorganization of the Mujahideen.
    He played a key role in capturing Ferkhar garrison in 1976 and Kalafgan in 1977 and the liberation of Talaqan in 1988.
    He was leading more than 1500 Mujahideen in the center of Takhar province.
    He was well-built person with a handsome face. He has left behind 12 children.
    He was killed in the ambush set by Hezb Islami Mujahideen on July 9.
    Mawlawl
    Ezatullah
    Mawlawi Ezatullah was bom in Seyab village of Bangi sub-district-Takhar province in 1934.
    He started his childhood by going to Madrasa to learn about Islam. He studied Islamic subjects in different ma-drasas in Takhar. For further studies he came to Pakistan and studied in different madrasas in Peshawar and Charsada. He graduated from Haqqania madrasa in 1961
                                                                                          Turn to page (5 )
Commander Abdul Wadood
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1,1989, page Q
        Jami'at victim of organized terror
    Hekmatyar's Hezb Islami committed an unprecedented crime by killing 30 Jami’at Mujahideen and commanders in Takhar Province on July 9. The incident took place in a very sensitive phase of Afghanistan's struggle fen liberation.
    Commander Ahamad Shah Masood convened a meeting of Jami'at commanders from Takhar, Kunduz, Badakhshan and Baghlan in Feikhar district on July 4. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss strategy for launching summer attacks against the communist regime of Najibullah. The meeting ended cm July 9. The commanders woe returning to their own areas when some of titan woe ambushed in Tangi Ferkhar, a gorge between Ferkhar district and Taleqan city. Mujahideen from Hezb Islami Hekmatyar under the command of Sayyed Jamal carried out the attack.
    Commander Abdul Wadood and four Mujahideen were killed in the ambush and 25 others were taken prisoner. They woe executed by Hezb the next day.
    The mutilated bodies of some of those killed were returned but bodies of the rest are still missing.
    The incident shocked every one because nobody expected such an unprovoked action in a very important phase of the struggle.
    Some weeks before the Ferkhar meeting ail the Mujahideen groups in Takhar, including Hezb Islami had signed an agreement to keep the road open and cooperate with each other in providing security for the city of Taleqan. Jami'at commanders passed the area under Hezb's control on their way to the meeting. There was no reason why they should not pass the area when they returned. \
    The loss of so many commanders and Mujahideen is painful. The timing makes it even more tragic. This was the time to pay attention to military operations against the regime. The purpose of Jami'at commanders attending the Ferkhar meeting was to end the stalemate situation in the battlefield. After the failure of the Jalalabad operation eyes had turned towards Masood. He was preparing for a coordinated action against the communist regime. He spent a great deal of time organizing his army and talking to commandos in the region to evolve a strategy . Masood had just returned from Panjshir where he held meetings with commanders of the north of Kabul. After the Ferkhar meeting of Jami'at commanders he wanted to invite the commanders belonging to other parties for a similar conference so that all of them should participate in action against the enemy.
    The incident is not part of local friction between the Mujahideen. Without encouragement by Hezb leadership in Peshawar this incident could not have happened. Jami'at is a dominating force in the area. For Sayyed Jamal it must have been a difficult decision to do it on his own. He must have been assured of party support by Hezb leadership in Peshawar to deal with the consequences of the crime in the form of reprisal actions by the Council.
    The action cannot be described as an irresponsible act of a frustrated commander who has been fighting for his survival against a dominating rival force. The situation was normal and Sayyed Jamal knew that the Council did not involve itself in local problems.
    There are clues that Hezb was preparing the ground for committing the tragedy before it happened. For two months an extensive propaganda campaign had been launched against Com. Masood and the Council to give the impression that Jami’at Mujahideen in the north were creating problem for Hezb and that Masood and the Council were a source of tension in the area. Hezb involved some Arab volunteers who did not like Masood because of his independent policies in this propaganda war. A delegation of Jamaat Islami of Pakistan who had gone to the area also returned from Afghanistan with similar stories which were spread
extensively.
    In the past, Jami’at played down the problems between the Mujahideen parties. Small incidents were not made public. The Ferkhar massacre changed Jami'at's view. The incident was a serious development with far reaching consequences for Jehad. Afghans and those who are interested should know about the facts. More than that the tragedy took place in such a scale and manner that no room was left to hide it Two foreign journalists were close to the scene of the crime and a representative of the International Red Cross witnessed the delivery of mutilated bodies of Jami’at commanders killed by Hezb. Very soon they will come with an independent report about the incident.
    Jami'at will try to cool down the situation and not to let the enemies of Afghanistan exploit the situation. But, it will find it tremendously difficult to check the people's emotions without bringing the criminals to justice.
    Those killed were not ordinary people. They were important commanders of the parties with thousands of followers. Some of them were affiliated with the Islamic Movement from the start. A possible solution to defuse die situation is to hand over the criminals to a body of Ulama so that they can be tried under Islamic law.
                                          Khalis commander killed by mine
    Commander hratiullah of Hezb Islami (Khalis group) was killed along with three of his Mujahideen when their jeep hit a land-mine near Kbost, Paktia province on July 21.
    The important Mujahideen commander was coming from Nadirshah Kot when the incident occurred. He was buried in Khost
    Matiullah was born 42 years ago in Sapira district of Paktia. After graduating fromTeacher Training School in Geidiz he became a teacher far two months.
    He was an old member of the Islamic Movement and became a refugee in Pakistan in 1974.
    In his party he had served in many important posts. He served as the commander of Zadrah front for some time. He became the provincial Amir of Paktia and the executive member of his party. He also saved as the head of the military committee of his organization.
    In tiie cabinet of Eng. Ahmad Shah he was appointed minister of agriculture and held the post of Deputy Interior Minister of the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1,1989, page @
Obituaries (From page 3)
      Mawlawi Ezatullah returned to his village and taught students for 17 years. He became active against the communist regime of Taraki in 1979. He was imprisoned and after the Soviet invasion he was released from Kunduz along with other prisoners by the Babrak regime.
      He became the Amir (civil admin-[ istrator) of the Mujahideen in Bangi. He participated in many battles against the Soviets and communists in different parts of Takhar and Kunduz provinces. He was a member of Hezb Islami and
 two years ago he joined Jami'at. He was the leader of about 500 armed Mujahideen in Bangi sub-district.
     In 1987, he came to Peshawar. He brought with him sixty young students to study Islam in madrasas. He returned to Afghanistan last year to resume his activities.
     Mawlawi Ezatullah was one of the victims of the Hezb atrocity in the Ferkahar tragedy. He has left behind ten children who live as refugees in Khurasan camp near Peshawar.
Commander Tariq
     Fazel Mohammad known as Sar I Malim Tariq was bom 40 years ago in Samandab village of Eshkamish district. He went to the school mosque in his village to leam the basics of Islam and later became a student of the primary school in Eshkamish. He completed high school in Kunduz and enrolled in Teacher Training school in I Kabul.
     After graduation in 1977, he be-icame a teacher in Eshkamish high school and later served as the headmaster of Samandab primary school. This is the reason for calling him Sar Malim, the Persian translation of I headmaster.
     When he was in high school he I witnessed the anti-Islamic activities of the communists. He opposed them by I joining the Islamic Movement
     When the communists took power,
 I his family became a target of their attack. His father, Mohammad Sarwar, who had served as a member of the National Assembly was considered a potential enemy of them. He was arrested by the communists and later was I killed.
      Tariq and his friends planned an ac-Jtion against the local government in Eshkamish. At its last stages, the enemy found out about it and attacked Tariq's village. He could not live there anymore. He came to Pakistan in 1978 and until 1980 he remained there. He served in different fronts in Kunar, Paktia and Badakhshan. During his stay in Peshawar he became a friend of I Commander Masood.
      Commander Tariq, Islamuddin and I some other Mujahideen returned to Takhar. They liberated Eshkamish and fought many battles in Taliqan, | Khanabad, Burka and other places.
      Tariq was a farsighted young com-I mander. He had realized the time for individual heroism in the war had came to Ian end. He also knew that the
 Mujahideen progress in the North was checked by superior Soviet forces. He was a witness to petty differences among the Mujahideen which were weakening them daily. He came to Masood and discussed the situation with him. He told Masood that he was worried about the situation. He asked Masood either to help in reorganizing Jami'at or allow him to become a refugee in Pakistan before it was too late.
     Tariq had a lot of supporters in his area and he was in control of Khailab valley, an ideal ground to establish permanent bases for the Mujahideen.
     Tariq offered his services to the Supervisory Council. His men, family and property were used to build the Council. The situation in those days was not promising. Association with Masood was an invitation to bombs and rockets. He accepted all these troubles to see the Mujahideen organized and united.
     Ironically Sayed Jamal, who killed Tariq and Jami'at commanders stayed some days in Tariq’s house when he returned from Pakistan three years ago.
      He and his men participated in most of the operations launched by the Council against the Soviets and the regime.
     He and one of hi& brothers were among the 25 people who were captured and killed by Hezb Islami Hikmatyar on July 9. He was married and has left behind five children.
  Dr. Sayyed Husain
    Sayed Husain son of Sayed Hafiz was bom in Khetayan village of Taliqan 37 years ago.
    He became a member of the Islamic Movement when he was a high school student in Taliqan.
    Sayed Husain went to the Health Faculty of Kabul University. In addition to studying medical subjects he took active part in opposing communists and propagating the message of the Islamic Movement.
    Since he was a known activist of the Islamic Movement, the communists arrested him during the rule of Taraki. After two years he was released from jail. He returned to Takhar to start armed struggle against the Soviets. In addition to armed struggle he treated wounded Mujahideen and civilians.
    He was one of the central figures who helped in formation of Shoora-e-Nizar, the Supervisory Council.
    He took part in many battles against the enemy garrisons. He was sent to Peshawar last year at the head of a four-member team to present the Council's programs to Jami'at leader ship, leaders of other political parties and representatives of relief organiza tions working for Afghans. After completing his mission he returned to Takhar.
      He played an important role in the liberation of Taliqan and provision of law and order in the city. He discussed a deal with other parties in the area which resulted in cooperation between the Mujahideen in Taliqan to protect the life and property of people and to keep open the roads for al Mujahideen. He had shown his negotia tion abilities on different occasions.
      He was captured in the ambush set by Hezb on July 9 and was executed one day later along with other friends by the people with whom he had signed an agreement some weeks before.
      He was married and has left behind ; rive sons and four daughters.
——--------------------- -AFGHANews Vol 5, No IS, August 1,1989, page ©
Eyewitness account of Ferkhar tragedy   By: Craig Weintraub
        Ferkhar Massacre of Jami'at commanders gives a sad air to Eid celebrations
                                                       where the commander initiated emer-
    July 16, FoUiar, Afghanistan. The nsnal festive atmosphere of Eid Qurban -Feast of tire Sacrifice, had a partiadady solemn and serious ate at it
iqg r^mdnrtrdl wm Inw nfftAfay
 finned prayers, many of dieir thoughts were diverted distorting new details ofwhat operas to be a highly planned ambush conducted by Hezh-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahideen of a Jami'at convoy on July 9 and 10.
    At least IS Jam?at Mujahideen including major pony commanders and officials ofTakhar hare been confirmed tilled in an ambush and suhseqaag executions initialed by Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahidea) in fee Dadt4> Route area of Takhm province, 30 Km south of Taliqan.
    The victims of the ambush woe major Jamf at commanders and officials from Kuduz, Bagblai, aidTathar prov-incss who were returning home after attending a 6-day seminar and training session directed by theleader of JamEat forces in the North, Ahmad Shah Masood. The focus of the seminar had been to define new strategy and tactics for the Mujahideen in their straggle against die Kabul regime.
    Tte returning cornmaiders and par-ty officials were travelling on the road between Feriter andTaUqan on July 9 organized loosely into throe convoys. The first convoy consisted of two cars, one with Khanahad commander Dr. Shams, die other with Tathar commander Mullah Wadood. At 3:00 pm the unsuspecting Jami'at Mujahideen were fired upon with heavy machine guns and Klashnibovs from hidden positions in fie Ferkhar gorge, which borders a portion of the 45 Km suetch of road between Ferkhar and Taliqan.
    Jami'at commander Engineer Yaqonb was in Midlah Wadoorfs car as it passed through the gorge several days ago. He was shot throe tunes in the arm and is only able to relate die tale because he managed to escape fiom his captivity two days ago. He says that his car was following behind Dr. Shams in the gorge when suddenly theyy encountered a barrage of gunfire which killed one of them, and left two
 nriiHV jnrhvting himadfjpjnr^,
    According to Engineer Yaqoub the driver stepped the car and Mullah Wadood was trying to escape up the
 hill when he was shot dead. The rest of the Jantiht Mujahideen in both slopped cars were surrounded by Hezb-i-Islami (Hekmatyar) Mujahideen and taken across dm other side ofthe river where
     They wailed there until five to six cars of the second convoy arrived. These cars were stepped in a similar fashion, money and valuables confiscated, and the new hostages were told to join the other captives on die other side of the river. There were now approximately 50 to 60 Jami'at Mujahideen being held. They were taken to the small village of Dahane Kushakdan where they wailed till dusk when die final convoy of Jami'at transports, one of diem with Kuduz commander Arif Khan, passed through the gage.
     Mohammad Alter, a Jami'at commander, was riding in the last car of this convoy as it passed through the gorge at 6:30 pm. "Suddenly we heard tremendous gunfire over head" he recalls, "and we woe forced to stop. Oscar was soon surrounded by 25 men, as were the rest of the cars in the convoy. We were told to pass our weapons out through the windows and to get .out. When we got out of our cars they confiscated our money, watches, coats and even our shoes. Some of our men were hit by die Hezbi Mujahideen with die ends of Kalashnikovs."
     A civilian truck then came up the road temporarily distracting die captors, allowing Mohammad Akhar to slip undetected to the back of the track where he acted as though he was a civilian coming on the track. He was able to escape on die truck when it was ordered onwanL
     Ghazi, a Jami'at heavy artillery man, was also in this convoy. He says after getting out of the car they were ordered by Hezb commander, Eshan-i-Sayyed Muza, to cross the river where he was standing. Arif Khan, commander of Kuduz, refused to follow these instructions despite being ordered to do so throe times. Finally Eshan gave permission for throe carloads of Arif Khan's men to be released.
     Shortly after being released, they again came undo’ heavy gunfire in which one car was overturned, killing one man and injuring two others. Eventually that night the two transports rtf Arif Khan arrived in Taliqan
 gency procedures and established radio contact with Ahmad Shah Masood.
     Meanwhile at 9:00 that evening, Hezb commander Eshan Muza requested that die 70 to 80 hostages identify themselves as "commanders" or "personnel". After compiling die two lists, die prisoners were searchod thoroughly, Mawlavi Ezatullah and P&yenda were then handcuffed in front of the group, all led down to the roadside at which time shots were heard and the two executed. ■
     The rest of the Jami'at Mujahideen were then taken to the village of Naw Khoja, higher in the gorge, where they were separated into two rooms-one with commanders, the other with personnel. Ihe Jami'at Mujahideen asked their captors why they were being held as an oral agreement had been made one month earlier, and witnessed by the four groups of Hezb-i-Islanii (Khalis), Hezb-i-Islanri (Hekmatyar), Jamfat and HarakaL The oral agreement guaranteed freedom of passage for these Mujahideen groups. The Hezbi captors told their hostages that "promises had been broken and that the oral agreement could no longer be honored."
     The following morning of July 10 in Taliqan, a delegation of four Mawlavis and elders from tire city were told by Arif Khan to go to the gorge and negotiate with Sayyed Jamal, die major Hezb (Hekmatyar) commander in the area, for the release of the captives. The number of Hezbi Mujahideen operating in the Taliqan gorge under Jamal are approximately numbered at 400 men.
     Upon arrival at the gorge the delegation was informed by Jamal that no further action was planned and were promised that the hostages would be released shortly thereafter. Ihe Mawlavis and elders returned to Taliqan by 11:00 am and were allowed to cany back the bodies of the four deads. An eyewitness in Taliqan at the time of delegation return reported that tensions were high in the city as aimed Hezb and Jami'at Mujahideen groups patrolled the streets and rumors of the strike circulated among civilians doing their last minute Eid shopping.
     According to captive Engineer Yaqoub, the hostages were held until
                                                                                                                     Turn to page (7 )
AFGHANews Vo!5, No 15, August 1,1989, paged
Sad Eid in Ferkhar
From page (6)
2:00 that afternoon (July 10), without food or water nor any medical relief for those injured. Eight men among them were then selected; Engineer Yaqoub, Sadot, two Khandabad Mujahideen, Ghulam Ali and Abdul Ahmad, a driver from Panjshir, Sannaleai Tariq and his brother. The eight men were brought back down to the river under die supervision of Hezb commander Sayyed Fakhruddin. They were led across die bridge to the roadside where the commander ordered thxSarmailem Tariq, a major Ishkamesh commander, and Ins brother be shot while the others watched.
    Engineer Yaqouib said that Hezb commander Sayyed Eakhruddm wanted to shoot them but the Hezfci commander of another Maricaz, Babur Shah, objected and positioned his men to prevent further shooting. Dr. Shams along with die two Khanahad commanders Ghulam Ali and Abdul Ahmad were then released while Yaqoub and Sadot were hold under the custody of Babur Shah.
    Yaqoub was held for three days during which tune he heard on radio communication established with Eshan Mirza that many of the captured Takhar and Baghlan commanders had been shot Engineer Yaqoub escaptedon July 13 during evening Namaz and made it back to Farichar where he conducted this interview.
    The dead bodies of executed Jami'at members, some badly mutilated, have been intermittently left by the roadside at the gorge where they have been picked up and taken to Taliqan Jami’at headquarters for identification and news then relayed to Ahmad Shah Masood. The burned body of Dr. Hussain was found as it floated down the river past Taliqan.
    Some of the major Jami'at commanders confirmed dead: Mulla Wadood-head of Taldiar province. Dr. Hussain-vice president of head of administration of Takhar, Sannalem Tariq-head of Ishkamesh, Mawlavi Ezatullah-commander of Seyab, Payenda-commander of Ishkamesh city, Ahmad Padshah-commander of Bangi district, Jan Mohammad-head of administration of Bangi, Naqibullah-education committee delegate, Ustad Shahid-Taliqan intelligence committee.
    The ambush and executions present a multitude of problems for Ahmad Shah Masood. First of all, the road from Ferkhar to Taliqan has been effectively dosed, making communications
and transport between the two major urban areas of the northeast, Faizabad and Kunduz, extremely difficult. On the operational level he has lost several of his most gifted commanders in Takhar province who led a combined force of over 3,000 men, and who had accumulated 10 years of war experience as commanders. In addition, Masood Mto has always advocated the importance and necessity of Mujahideen unity, has now to divert his attention previously focusedon the defeat of the Kabul regime and to deal with this uqwecedenied internal provocation.
    Note:
    &aig Weintraid* is ajrielance writer mainly interested in wr&ng a navel with a factual setting in Afghanistan during the present time period He has been in the general region for the past eight months, including much tone in Pakistan.
    He is currently in the2ndmtmthcf what he hopes is a four month stamnt stay in the North.
                                             UN volunteers go to liberated zones
    The first United Nations volunteer, a Burmese, to supervise the UN assistance programme in Afghanistan has arrived in Pakistan, VOA reported.
    He will supervise transportation and later distribution of food in Afghanistan. Another nine volunteers will make a brief stay in Pakistan before altering Afghanistan.
    In the first instance, these volunteers will be deployed in Quetta and Peshawar.
- About one hundred volunteers will work in Afghanistan. Beside Burma, the volunteers to be sent to Afghanistan come from Uganda, Somalia and Thailand. Six officers of the United Nations coming from Britain, Lebanon, Sudan, Liberia, Somalia and Burma, will soon join the volunteers. Twelve volunteers are being selected by the Would Health Organization (WHO) to provide medical facilities in Afghanistan.
    These volunteers go to areas controlled by the Mujahideen. The UN has similar activities in Kabul.
                            Soviet soldiers beat Afghan civilians
    The weekly Moscow News earned war stories by Valery Abramov, 30, under the headline, "The whole truth has to be told about this war."
    Recounting "incidents that are shameful to recall,” Abramov described how two Afghan prisoners suspected of
                                                                                                                                   his
     "We already had people killed and missing. Lost friends...and we tm leashed all our amuuntatrri pain on those two. We beat than all night, with short breaks. I, too tried to beat them as painfully as I conldL ft seemed as if they were to blame for the deal of our soHias: And in the morning, k turned out they were peaceful inhabt-
                                           Jami'at gives sewing machines to needy women
    Jamixs leader mstntiutoa machines to 52 refugee women who had completed a tailoring class organized by Jami’at Jslami on June 22.
    In die meeting organized an this occasion professor Rabboni and one of the women's belonging to the Women's Branch of Jami'at spoke about the nde of women in an Islamic society.
    PTOf. Rabfoam praised the efforts of the Jami’at Woman's Branch in organizing the tailoring class which was aimed at helping needy families.
                                      Ismail Khan condemns massacre
   Commander hiamaii Khan of
Herat has condemned killing of 30 Jamfat commanders and MujalndBea by Hezb (ffikmatyar) and has called a barbaric act. He has ashed for the trial of those involved.
                                          Road accidents killed 47,000 Russians last year
    23 May, Major General Vakriyan Ishotin of the MVD revealed that 47,000 died and 300,000 were injured in road accidents in the Soviet Union last year. New traffic regulations provides for tougher punishments fora numberof offences.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 15, August 1, 1989, page ©
Mujahideen rockets hit prime minister's office
    Regime-controlled radio and television covered a recent meeting between some elders of Shemali ( north of Kabul) and the head of the communist regime. Both side were asking l or opening of the road but for deferent types of convoys.
    The elders of Shemali asked Najib to lift the blockade of their areas and alow private transportations to run between Kabul and Shemali which is controlled by the Mjahideen.
    Najib asked the Mujahideen through the elders to leave the road open for all sorts of convoys, military and civilian. They could not agree.
    It is reported that after the failure of the meeting, the regime started to bomb Shemali from air and ground causing extensive losses in life and property.
    When the section of Salang Road between Kabul and Bagram air base became risky for the regime convoys, it built a new dirt road connecting Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash airport. After constructing the new road the regime blocked the old road at Khair Khana pass. The people living north of Kabul depend on trade with the city. They are facing problems as a result of the road block. The people of the area are fanners who grow grapes which were sold in Kabul and in the neighboring countries of India and Pakistan. Due to road blocks they will not be able to sell fruit abroad and even selling fruit in Kabul is doubtful because Najib has connected the opening of road with an overall peace agreement between him and the Mujahideen in the area. His proposals have been re-
 jected by the Mujahideen.
     Rocket attacks on Kabul have increased recently. On July 22, six rockets hit the heart of the city where the regime's administrative buildings are located. One of the rockets landed close to the prime minister's office. According to regime sources, 40 people were killed in the attack.
     On July 16, a powerful bomb exploded near the ministry of finance, a few hundred yards from the presidential palace. Twenty people were reportedly killed. The regime blamed the Mujahideen for the explosion.
     Unprecedented security measures were taken in Kabul on July 20. Tanks and armored cars guarded the strategic points in the city and house searches were carried out all over the city. The regime said the reason for the search was to locate arms and ammunition smuggled by the Mujahideen but did not announce the discovery of any arms and ammunition.
     Reports from Kabul say that tension between Khalqis and Perchamis have increased. The two factions which make up the PDPA are competing with each other for power.
     Recently Najib reconciled with supporters of Babrak and reinstated Beryalay, Babrak’s brother, and made him Deputy Prime Minister. Khalqis who have majority in the army resent consolidation of the Perchamis' position. Khalqis also seems worried about the Vorontsov's policy of supporting Najib.
     There were rumors that General Tani, regime Defense Minister, was under house arrest because of anti-Najib activities.
Regime frees American journalist
                                                                The US closed its embassy in
    American journalist, Tony O'Brien, was freed by the Kabul regime oh July 20 after six weeks of detention.
    O'Brien had entered Afghanistan with the Mujahideen to cover the war but was arrested by the security forces of the regime.
    Yasser Arafat, the PLO chairman, asked the Kabul regime to release O’Brien. Arafat’s request came after he showed intention to mediate between the Mujahideen and the communist regime in Kabul.
    To arrange for his freedom a consular officer from American embassy in New Delhi visited Kabul.
 Kabul on security grounds before the completion of the Soviet troop withdrawal.
     Mr. O'Brien was not tried and he was only charged with illegal entry into Afghanistan. In the past the regime tried captured journalists and relief workers who travelled with the Mujahideen on charges of espionage.
     Informed source believe that O'Brien's release by Najib is an attempt to improve the regimes image in theUS public eye.
     The regime hopes that this will help its propaganda drive to put pressure on Bush Administration to stop supplying arms to the Mujahideen.
 A issue wim
     Iran Foreign Minister, Dr. Ali Akber Velayati, concluded a two-day visit to Islamabad during which he discussed the Afghan issue with Pakistani leaders. He also met with Mujahideen leaders.
     Iran and Pakistan who are neighbors of Afghanistan and host to five million refugees would like to see an end to war so that the refugees can return home.
     One of the issues discussed between Irani and Pakistani leaders is broadening the base of the Afghan Interim Government. The eight-party coalition of Mujahideen based in Iran has remained out of the Interim Government The differences between Peshawar-based Mujahideen and Tehran-based Mujahideen started when the two sides did not agree on the number of seats for the Iran-based parties in the Consultative Council which former the Interim Government in February this year.
     Four ministerial posts have been offered to the Iran-based parries by the Interim Government. Sources close to the Shia parties say that they want at least one important ministerial post in the Interim Government as a condition for joining. The ministries of the Interior, defence, finance, foreign affairs and reconstruction are considered important. These ministries are distributed among the seven Peshawar-based par ties forming the Interim Government.
     Recently the eight-party coalition Shoora-e-Ittifaq, an independent Shia party, and three small factions headed by Qazi Amin, Mawlawi Mansoof and Mawlawi Moazin have agreed to coordinate their activities. Ibis was interpreted by some sources as an attempt to form a parallel government based in Tehran. When Professor Rabbani visited Tehran in mid-July the leaders of those parties denied forming a parallel government.
     Exploiting the differences between the Mujahideen based in Iran and Pakistan, the Soviets have tried to deal with the Shia parties separately. So far they have rejected the Soviet offers for regional autonomy and a coalition government with the communists but the Soviets have not lost hope.
     Improvement in the Iran-Soviet re lationship could increase the level contacts between the Soviets and the Iran based parties.