AFGHAN NEWS
No. 13
.V.-9-AI
p- hZ
9-2-85
The Russian Forces attacked Nahri Shahi District and besieged the area of Barmazid district at 10:00 p,m,
According to the report, in a counter operation to break the siege the Mujahideen destroyed 8 tanks and APCs, captured a large quantity of weapons and killed or injured a number of1 enemy forces.
Two Mujahids were martyred and one reportedly wounded,
8-8-§5_
Zari area of Shoulgar district was bombarded at 5*30 p.m by four helicopters resulting in the death or injury of at least 8 civilians including children.
8-5-85
According to a report signed by Commander Alam reaching Here from Mazar Sharif, Mujahideen of the area attacked a puppet government outpost at Quruk village which resulted in the death and injury of six government soldiers.
Xn a retaliatory operation the Russians bombarded Pikandara village of Shoulgar District . On the same day , according to the report Mujahideen were able to shoot down a helicopter during the operation.
The next day the Mujahideen attacked the same government post at Quruk which resulted in the death of about 5 soldiers.
 8-6-85
 The Russian forces have reportedly bombarded Abdara village of Shoulgar district. While the village was being attacked Mujahideen shot down an aircraft (the type of the air craft is not mentioned).
 The same day, Mujahideen also shot down another Jet fighter at Pikandara village.
 In a successful operation against a relatively strong government post at Kusbkat village, Mujahideen were able to capture at least 50 different pieces of light weapons.
 8-1-85
Mujahideen of Mazar besieged some enemy forces at Chimtal district from Is p.m to 60s00 p.m , According to the report a number of the enemy soldiers were killed. During the operation oneMujahid was martyred and one was. seriously wounded.
                 -.. JEGDALIK FRONT ' "
"6—51—85
The Russian-Karmal forces while returning from their massive Jaji offensive, suffered heavy losses at Jegdalik of Kabul.. Commander Anwar reported that at least kO Russian tanks and APCs with six military trucks were destrpyed and about 200 enemy forces were killed or injured
 AFGHAN NEWS            No.  13      23-9-85
P-2+3
 red during the operation Mujahideen reportedly used RPG-7s and anti-tank mines. The report says that all anti-tank mines which were planted at least a year ago by Mujahideen worked well.
 Jegdalik is one of the better organized fronts of Jamiat and has an important strategic Value that threats the Kabul-Jalalabad road. For seven years*specially the last three, it has played a significant role in the Suroobi area in the war against the Russ-
ians , 28-7-85
 TAKHAR^PROVINCE
 Reports from Takhar province indicate that enemy forces have launched various operations both large and small against Mujahideen strongholds in the months of July and August in different areas of Takhar .
 According to the latest reports the air and ground offensive which Was launched by the enemy On the 28th July at Dashti Archi, resulted in the death and injury of at least 18 innocent civilians and two Mujahideen. It is reported that more than 40 Helicopters and Jet bombers participated in bombarding the area. The report adds that in a counter operation the Mujahideen were able to destroy 3 tanks or APCs and about 27 enemy forces were injured or killed.
 31-7385
 In another large operation launched by the Russians in the area called Mulla Quli, at least $>0 civilians were killed and many houses and shops were razed to the ground in a bombardment.
 The report adds that adds that Mujahideen were also able to kill at least 13 Russian soldiers and some puppet government troops. It is reliably learnt that the Russians have contaminated most of the water wells with poison at Mulla Quli area which has led to the death of at least six civilians.
 According to another reliable report two Khad officers of Takhar province namely Hayatullah s/o Subhanqul and Shah Wali s/o Khuja Gul were captured by Mujahideen and hanged to death by a revolutionary court at Dashti-Archi,