Vol 8, No 9
May 1,1992
The historic victory !
Mujahideen form government in Kabul after 14 years of Jehad
    After 14 years of Jehad against the communists and Soviet forces, the Mujahideen succeeded to form their Islamic government in Kabul on April 28.
    Prof. Mujaddidi who reached Kabul from Pakistan at the head of 50-member commission, formally took power from the rulers of the Kabul regime in a simple ceremony in the Foreign        Miifistry       of
Afghanistan. The ranking officers of the former regime pledged their allegiance to the Islamic       government      in
Afghanistan and the first head of the Islamic state of Afghanistan announced general amnesty.
    The event closed a bloody chapter in the history of Afghanistan which had began with communists' coup of April 27,1978.
    When Prof. Mujaddidi reached Kabul, he was given a warm welcome by the Mujahideen and the people of the city. The arrival of Mujaddidi would stabilize the situation in the capital.
    The Islamic Republic of Pakistan was the first country to extend full diplomatic recognition to the Islamic interim government of Afghanistan.
    The way for this victory was paved when the Mujahideen under the command of Ahmad Shah Masood entered Kabul on April 25 peacefully and took control of the strategic locations of the city. The decision to take control of Kabul was cleared with leadership council of the Mujahideen who had earlier agreed on a formula for transfer of power. .
    The leaders of the Mujahideen also formed a security committee which is responsible for provision of security in Kabul. The committee is headed by Ahmad Shah Masood and each party of the Mujahideen has introduced a commander as its members.
     Prof. Rabbani sent a message to Afghan people on the historic occasion of the liberation of Kabul from communists' control. The message was read out on TV and radio of Afghanistan.
     A communique of the security committee gave assurance to the for-
r



                                                            Prof. Mujaddidi
 eign countries and the UN that their diplomats were under protection of the committee.
     About 300 foreign journalists were in Kabul to cover developments in the Afghan capital. Afghans in exile stuck to their short-wave radios and televisions get first hand information about developments in their country.
     The dramatic events which led to the liberation of of Kabul began with the victory of the Mujahideen in Salang on April 13. Within two days, Jebulseraj, Charikar and Bagram , the largest air base in Afghanistan, fell to the Mujahideen under command of Ahmad Shah Masood. These victories took the Mujahideen parties in exile and foreign countries involved in the issue by surprise.
     After the liberation of Bagram, Masood was poised to attack Kabul but he preferred to wait and let the Mujahideen leaders work out an administration to take over power from the regime.
     The quick victories scored by
 Masood worried, some Mujahideen leaders and commanders. They were afraid that Masood might try to monopolize power and leave out other Mujahideen who had fought for the liberation of their country for 14 years. These worries gave room for wild speculations about linguistic and regional realignment among the Mujahideen.
     Masood talked to a delegation of commanders by radio and briefed them his plans. Masood made it clear to them that he had not intention to monopolize power and was in favor of participation of all Mujahideen groups in the Islamic Government of Afghanistan.
     The council of commanders issued a communique supporting Masood's efforts for the establishment of an Islamic government. The commanders' state ment reduced the fear of ethnic divisions in Afghanistan.
     Najib who saw the end of his rule tried to escape from the country with the help of UN officials. His attempt failed because the airport had come under control of the Mujahideen. His destination seemed India where he had sent his family sometimes before. Najib took refuge in one of the offices of the UN in Kabul.
     The ruling Watan Party stripped him of his state and party duties. He was called a hated dictator by the regime Foreign Minster Abdul Wakil.
      Najib returned to Kabul with the Red Army in 1979. He headed the secret police of regime from 1980 to 1986. In 1987, he became president of the Kabul regime. Najib has a criminal record. Khaleej Times has repeated that Najib had signed the death sentence of 35,000 people when he was the head of KHAD.
      The UN envoy tried to secure the safe exit of Najib from Afghanistan but did not succeed He might face trial by the Islamic Interim Government.
     Hearing about Najib’s attempt to
 (I
To back page