Vol 6, No 3                                       February 1, 1990
AIG will hold elections for grand 'Shoora' soon
SCUD missile lands near Islamabad
     A SCUD missile fired by the Kabul regime landed in Hisar village, 30 kilometers from Islamabad on January 10.
     The incident caused no casualties but material losses were reported. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto called the firing of missile a cowardly act by the Kabul regime.
     The missile landed near the Wah Ordnance Factory. The Pakistan Times in its editorial said the target of the attack was the Factory.
     The Pakistan Government protested to the Kabul regime over the incident, and the Soviet ambassador to Islamabad was informed of the concern of the Pakistan government
     The UN observer team UNGOMAP (United Nation Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan) was asked by the Pakistan government to carry out an investigation.
     The incident took place while the Security Council was discussing the extension of UNGOMAP’s mandate. UNGOMAP was created by the UN to monitor implementation of the Geneva accord signed by Pakistan and the Kabul regime on 14 April, 1988.
     The mandate of this 50-member observer team was about to expire on January 15. The Soviet Union wanted its mandate to be extended for six months while the US was of the view that it had completed its task of monitoring the Soviet troop withdrawal.
     The Kabul regime might have fired the missile to prompt the extension of UNGOMAP mission.The mission was extended for two months one day after the missile incident.
     The Soviet Union cannot escape responsibility for firing the missile because it provided the weapon to the regime. Moreover, the Soviet Union's militaiy advisers help in firing of SCUD missiles.
     The SCUD missile has a range of about 300 kilometers and delivers a warhead weighing 1000 kilograms.
     The Afghan Interim Government will hold elections throughout Afghanistan for a broad-based Shoora (council)
     Pro. Sayyaf the Prime Minister of AIG told reporters in Peshawar cm January 27 that the elections will start in February and will be completed within four months.
     According to the AIG program the people of each of the 216 districts (Woloswalis) will elect ten people from among themselves as members of a Grand Assembly. At least one of the ten persons should be from the refugee camps. The ten elected people will then choose one person from among themselves as a member of the national assembly. The rest of the elected members will form district and provincial councils.
     Each Mujahideen party will also introduce 15 people to the Grand Assembly, five of whom should be independent Ten of the 15 people will be chosen to the National Assembly. Three of these must be independent
     Election procedure will be decided
 by the people in each constituency. The flexibility regarding election procedure is introduced to make the program successful in country which is at war. The qualifications of the candidates will be determined by the Election Commissioner of the AIG.
     The AIG believes that the national assembly created throughout such elections will be representative.
     Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) has opposed the AIG plan and has called for holding elections in Afghanistan and the refugee camps using ballot box.
     The Iran-based Mujahideen parties have also raised some questions about the elections.
     Prof. Sayyaf told BBC that the AIG would discuss the details of the election plan with Hezb and Iran-based parties so that a consensus is reached. But he made it clear that elections will be held according to the program even if the differences are not resolved.
     The AIG's tenure, which was to expire in February, has been extended till creation of the new Shoora.
UN Seretary General discusses Afghanistan with Soviet leaders
     The UN Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar has met Soviet leaders in Moscow to discuss the Afghan situation with them.
     Making use of his visit to Moscow to address a conference on the environment, he discussed ways of bringing peace to Afghanistan with President Gorbachev and Foreign Minister Shevardnadze.
     The UN Secretary General has a mandate to search for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
     UN sources told the New York Times prior to the Secretary General's trip to Moscow that he will discuss with the Soviet leaders the issue of arms embargo to both sides of the con-
 flict, including the withdrawal of the sophisticated weapons given to the Kabul regime after the Soviet troop withdrawal.
     Mr. de Cuellar has proposed formation of ten-member delegation representing the Mujahideen parties based in Pakistan and Iran, field commanders and supporters of the ex-king. This delegation should be authorized to take decisions on behalf of the opponents of the Kabul regime. That would be a first step towards a political process which would bring peace to Afghanistan.
     Benon Sevan, who has replaced Diego Cordovez as the special envoy of the UN Secretary General, accompanied Mr. de Cuellar in his trip to Moscow.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page @
                        News
   rtf ft
                   From the battlefields
                                             Samangan province
    On January two, the Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with communist 1 bices, capturing 20 soldiers and two officers. The Mujahideen set on fire one tank and one jeep, and seized 20 guns.
    In retaliating, the communists bombarded the residential areas around the provincial capital, causing material osses.
    On January 10, the Mujahideen captured 20 soldiers, killed four and wounded two. They seized 20 guns.
                                              Kandahar province
    On January 14, the Mujahideen from Jami'at killed two officers and four soldiers, and wounded nine when they fired with heavy weapons on the enemy positions in Qishla-i-Jadeed.
    On January 15, the Mujahideen fired 107mm rockets on the enemy positions in Firqa-i-Kandahar killing 12 soldiers and injuring 18.
    On January 11, a land mine destroyed an enemy truck near the airport, killing all its occupants. Four soldiers of a second truck were also killed in the incident and four guns were seized by the Mujahideen.
                                                Herat province
    On January 12, the Mujahideen from Jami'at destroyed one tank cn the Herat-Torghundi highway and seized six Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar and one radio set
    On January 12, the Mujahideen killed six soldiers and wounded two when they attacked the enemy posts of Herat prison. One Mujahid was killed and two were wounded.
    On December 27, the Mujahideen destroyed one tank and captured six enemy soldiers when they attacked enemy troops in Gutran district on the Herat-
 Torghundi highway. The Mujahideen seized one mortar, one radio set and six Kalashnikov rifles.
    The Mujahideen destroyed four armored cars and six military vehicles and killed six enemy soldiers when they attacked enemy posts near the Herat Cement Factory. Two Mujahideen and four civilians were also killed.
    The enemy retaliated by aerial bombardment of the villages controlled by the Mujahideen. Details of the casu aides are not available.
                                                Balkh province
    On December 31, six KHAD agents were killed by the urban Mujahideen fighters inside Mazar city .
                                                                        Mujahideen leader killed
   A Mujahideen commander has been killed by unknown men in Parwan province.
   Haji Sayed Ebrahim from Harakat Islami (Shakh Mohsini) was killed when his jeep was attacked in Gborband district. Ghorband valley is controlled by Mujahideen.
   According to Harakat Islami spokesman in Iran, Commander Ebrahim was a member of the Central Council of that party. He had participated in Kabul uprising of Balahisar in 1979 and in the fighting which resulted in the liberation of Bamyan province last year.
   Harakat spokesman said his party suspected involvement of the regime se* cret police and Sayed Mansoor in the assassination of Sayed Ebrahim. Sayed Mansoor is the head of Ismaelia militiamen active along the Salang highway from the Soviet border to North Salang.
    The Afghanistan Jehad exhibition was opened by Prof. Sayyaf, the Prime Minister of the Afghan Interim Government, on January 18 in Peshawar.
    The exhibition, which was organized by the Ministry of Information of the interim government, displayed photographs, posters, cartoons, drawings, calligraphy, books, periodicals, journals, handicrafts by those handicapped as a result of the war, historical and cultural relics, captured military equipment and video films from the battlefields of Afghanistan.
    The exhibition was open to the public from 19 till 24 January. The last two days were set aside for lady visitors only.
    Prof. Sayyaf in his opening remarks said that changes in Eastern Europe were triggered by the Afghan struggle against the Soviet Union.
    A large number of Afghans and Pakistanis and some foreigners visitec the exhibition and were impressed by it. In addition to the parties within the government, some independent organ! zations also had set up their own stalls, The exhibition hall was dominated by large pictures of famous Mujahideen field commanders.
    Most photos and posters highlighted the destruction of the Afghan towns and villages and suffering of Afghan people. Several kinds of anti personnel mines and booby traps used by the Soviet army in Afghanistan were also displayed in the exhibition.
    Dr. Najibullah Lafraie, the Information Minister of AIG, said in his opening speech that a similar exhi bition will be organized in Islamabad, Lahore and Kararachi in the near fu tore. This is the first of such exhibi tions organized by the Mujahideen in Pakistan.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Comdr. Samiullah Qatrah
     Commander Sameyullah Qatra was bom 30 years ago in the village of Sabz in the district of Darwaz. His father, Abdul Latif (a Tajik), was a poor farmer living all his life in Darwaz.
     Qatrah completed his primary school education in Sabz at the age of twelve. Then he went to Faizabad to continue his secondary education. He was in grade eleven when the Communists took power in Kabul. Qatrah left school and joined the Mujahideen group from Jami'at in 1978.
     Initially he worked with commanders such as Maulawi Abas and Qazi Ahmad Khan. In the later stages, he established his own command in the Koof Valley and became a commander whose effectiveness stood him apart from all other young commanders.
     Qatra expanded his command to other nearby villages. He led his groups in many operations against the Soviets
 and their puppets. Qatra was appointed as the general commander of Darwaz which borders the Soviet Union and as a consequence comes under very heavy bombardment from the Soviets. Daily life for all citizens in Darwaz is extremely difficult. However, Qatra has successfully set up a number of schools and medical clinics in order to provide services for the local people.
     Qatra has adopted the offensive strategy of organizing his Mujahideen into small units for the purpose of attacking enemy posts during the night. This strategy has proved to be successful. His Mujahideen have the reputation of being among the most gallant of all Mujahideen fighting the regime government. As a consequence, Qatra is highly respected in all parts of Badakhshan.
     Qatra spends his spare time studying the Holy Quran and Islamic teachings. He is married and has three children.
Commander Saduddin
    Commander Saduddin was bom 37 years ago in the village of Juee situated in the district of Darwaz. His father, Aslam, was a poor Tajik farmer and as a consequence Saduddin and his two brothers in their childhood were required to help their father maintain their farm. Saduddin never went to school but did learn the basics of Islam and how to read the Quran in the village's mosque.
     Saduddin left his family at a young age to seek employment and a higher standard of living in Taloqan and later in Kunduz. He found ordinary employment and in his free time sought to expand his knowledge of Islam.
    In 1978 when the first communist regime took power, Saduddin came back to Darwaz and joined the
                                                  Soviet Tajiks are opposed to interference in Afghanistan
    An Iranian scholar told BBC Persian Service that Tajiks in the Soviet Union did not like the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
    Tooraj Atabaki from Utrecht University of Holland has recently returned from a visit to Doshanbay, the capital of Soviet Tajikistan Republic.
    He said they did not want to fight against Afghans with whom they have cultural and historical ties. The Tajiks were happy about the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, he added
Mujahideen from Jami'at Islami. Very soon he became a skilled fighter and was selected as a group commander.
     After participating in different operations against the Soviets and the regime forces, he became the commander of a group of about 200 people in his home district
     He expanded his influence, captured more weapons and established more bases under his own control. Now he is the commander of one of the bases of Jami'at in Darwaz.
     He stays mostly in Juee. He led his forces in the operations at Do Abgi, Ghoghand and Zaghar. He is married
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
                                                        *j/j
   *               b
A wolf s pup will grow into a wolf even though it be raised among men.
Meaning: Training can not change heredity : or, you cannot change leopard's spots: or, what is bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
A loin at home, and a fox abroad.
Meaning: A big frog in a little pond becomes a little frog in a big pond: or, every dog is a loin at home.
                ■ kiSStf fj
They asked the fox,"
Who is your witness?"
He said, "My tail."
Meaning: Collusion is suspected: or, one witness for his own benefit.


        Wn . . ... . . , tt, AVMW.SV.', AS . ASW
            The prophet ( peace upon him) said,
         "A man should not make Httl man get up from *
                               seat ( in a
          ■■■■Bnordu^:
 Ills;®?'
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page Q
  Editorial
                                 Elections for Shoora unable to solve all our problems
     The Afghan Interim Government has proposed a plan to hold elections for a broad-based Shoora. According to the plan each district will elect ten people for a Shoora and the electoral procedure will be decided by die people in each district separately.
     This plan has taken into account the war condition in Afghanistan and an attempt has been made to create a Shoora representing all parts of Afghanistan. The program is well-thought and an very practical. In Jami'at's opinion, if it is implemented it will lead to the creation of a representative Shoora.
     If the proposed election is completed successfully, it will be a major political step towards achieving victory against the Kabul regime.
     A successful election will unite the resistance on a platform. It will give credibility to the government they choose, and that government can forcefully challenge the illegal Soviet-backed Kabul regime. This government will be credible in the eyes of international community as well as the eyes of Afghans.
     Successful completion of the election will have a positive affect on the military activities of the Mujahideen and pave the road for more coordinated operations against the enemy.
     The program will be successful when the effective forces in the resistance support it.
     The program has faced problems from the start Shia parties and Hezb ISlami (Hikmatyar) have shown reservations about the timing and procedures of the proposed elections.
     The interim government says it is busy in negotiation with the concerned parties to get their agreement to die program, and it is open to suggestions regarding the practical aspects of its implementation.
     But one should not think that holding elections will solve all the problems the resistance is facing. The major problem for any government of Mujahideen will be the military defeat of the Kabul regime. The Soviets and the regime are not ready to give the Afghans the right of self-determination.
     Due to the Mujahideen's shortcomings in the battlefield, the Soviet Union has become less flexible towards a political solution, and the Kabul regime has built self confidence and has become more hopeful about its own survival.
     Even if a broad-based government is formed through holding elections, it has to play an key role in shaping the battlefield situation to prove its credibility and impose its control over the resistance forces. Without such a role it will not be able to play the part it is intended for.
     The resistance has no option but to have a a two-track program with both military and political components. Any political effort without strong military pressure will not achieve its purpose.
     The resistance has spent one year in deep political debates at the expense of attention towards military activities. Will the five crucial months ahead be spent in the same way?
     Mujahideen leaders should not expect too much from a government endorsed by an elected Shoora. It certainly will have positive effects but major problems will still be there.
     Afghan people and the world expect the Mujahideen to play a more effective military role. What the resistance has achieved in the past year does not meet the reasonable expectations of the world.
     Let us go ahead with the elections, but not forget the role of military action at this crucial moment. If the resistance does not improve its military performance, its political efforts will be wasted.
     The resistance has potential to do much better than it has been doing, but it requires attention by Mujahideen leaders and support from friends.
® vn@ w
 Dust of the Saints
    Dust of the Saints is the name of a new book by Radek Sikorski, an English young writer, photograther and journalist, about the western parts of Afghanistan.
    Radek went with the Mujahideen to Herat province in 1987 to report on the war. He entered Afghanistan from Quetta in Pakistan and it took him several weds to reach Herat
    Radek was a witness to a big gathering of Mujahideen commanders in Saghar where he met Commander Ismail Khan. He was impressed by the Mujahideen commander.
    He continued his trip to see the situation around the historic city of Herat Durig his stay in one village, Soviet warplanes bombed the village, killing dozens of people. He took a picture of a family who had beat buried under the rubble of their destroyed house. This picture earned Radek the first prize for spotnews by the World Press Photo Foundation in 1988.
    Radek Sikorslri was boro in Poland in 1968. He helped the Solidarity movement and in 1981 emigrated to London. His Polish background made him interested in covering the Afghan war as a freelance journalist
    Radek has dedicated his book to the memory of his countryman Andy Skrzypkowiak, a freelance cameraman who was killed by some miscreants during a trip to Afghanistan in 1987.
    Radek's account of his trip during the war, to an area where few Western journalist have travelled, contributes to understanding of the situation under which the Afghan Resistance fought the Russian invaders. It tells the story of an ancient civilization razed to ground by destructive power of the Red Army.
    Dust of the Saints is printed in 274 pages by:
      Chatto & Windus Ltd 30 Dedford Square London WC1B3SG
    The book is decorated with some beautiful pictures taken by the writer, and supplemented with illustrations and maps to make it easy for the reader understand. The cover is adorned with a picture of Commander Ismael Khan on horseback.
    The price of a hard cover copy of the book is £ 14.95 net in UK.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page Q
Afghanistan, Cambodia facing similar situation
 Mohamamd Es’haq
     The withdrawal of Soviet troops did not result in a return of peace for Afghanistan. Similarly, the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia has not brought the war to an end in that country .
     Afghanistan and Cambodia, two Asian countries, have experienced similar developments during a decade of their occupation and future developments in these countries might follow the same pattern.
     There are many similarities between the struggle of these two countries against the foreign invaders.
     The two countries were invaded by their militarily-superior neighbors and the ruling regimes in both countries were replaced with new governments brought to power by the invaders. In both cases, the invading forces acted in such a way to give a permanent role for their client regimes after the withdrawal of their forces.
     Sovietization policy in Afghanistan and Vietnamization program in Cambodia were designed to control all aspects of the life in these two countries by the invaders
     Both countries have suffered heavy losses in men and materials and a great number of their population has been displaced due to the war. Of course the scale of destruction and population displacement are different in each country.
     The Afghan resistance and Cambodian fighters have enjoyed the moral, and political support of the majority of the world countries in their war for liberation.
     Afghan Mujahideen and the resistance in Cambodia have had the active support of their neighbors in the form of humanitarian support for the refugees, political support and material aid for the fighters to enable them to continue their war for liberation. Cooperation of their neighbors have played a key role in forcing the invaders to withdraw their troops.
     Economic and political considerations of the invaders in both cases were the main reason behind the withdrawal of their troops. Changes in Soviet Union facilitated die withdrawal of foreign forces from both countries. Moscow was the real player behind Vietnam in Cambodia while in Afghanistan it was involved in direct combat.
     Vietnam and the Soviet Union have remained committed in supporting
 their client regimes in Phnom Penh and Kabul. They have continued to pour enormous amount of arms and ammunition to their clients, have given them financial assistance and have helped them with advisors.
     The resistance in both countries fought a low intensity guerrilla war against the superior invading forces. They left before the freedom fighter had reached an advanced stage of war. The two resistances are facing the same problem of changing tactics to deal with the regular armies of the regimes in power.
     The resistance in Cambodia has more experience in organizational and tactical aspects of the war while the Afghan resistance is highly popular and its activities cover the whole country.
     In both cases the invasion brought about the denunciations of communism and the puppet regimes in both countries try to hide their communist identity.
     Despite the above similarities there are diversities between the two movements.
     The Afghan resistance is highly motived by religious beliefs and is supported by the majority of Afghans all. over the country. Love for freedom and country are subordinated to the Islamic ideals of martyrdom and fighting an infidel invader. All resistance groups in Afghanistan fight Jehad "a holy war".
     In Cambodia, the major motive has been nationalism and compared to Afghanistan the areas of the resistance activities have been geographically limited.
     The resistance in Cambodia have been able to form a political structure under the leadership of Prince Norodom Sihanouk, an internationally recognized figure.
     The Afghan resistance has not been able to form an organization broad-based enough to include all those who oppose the communist regime of Najibullah. AIG is an attempt towards this aim but more steps are needed to turn it into a representative body. Only time will tell wether it can it turn into an effective and representative organization.
     The Cambodian resistance have enjoyed another benefit over the Afghan resistance and that is the membership of the UN. The UN has proved an extremely useful forum for the Cambodian resistance. The Afghan UN
               Turn to page (7)
     An Afghanistan Research and Study department has been opened in the International Study Center of the Foriegn Ministry of Iran.
     In the inaugral session of the Department some Afghan and Iranian scholars participated.
                ***
        *
     According to news agencies the British High Commissioner in Islamabad has asked the Pakistan government to provide protection for a BBC reporter stationed in Islamabad.
     The BBC reporter has been threatened by some unidentified people for alleged false reproting of the Afghan war.
                                                                    ***
     Families of missing Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan say that Soviet Government is not doing enough to secure the release of POWs.
     Recently two prisoners were released by the Mujahideen on humanitarian grounds. The Mujahideen have said that they are ready to exchange prisoners.
                                                                    ***
     UK has stated that it will not reopen its embassy in Kabul. France has made the decision to re-open its embassy there. France's action has been criticized by the Mujahideen.
                                                                    ***
     The Kabul regime has welcomed the French government's decision to re-open its embassy in Kabul.
                                                                    ***
 The UN reporter on the human rights situation in Afghanistan has left for Kabul after a week-long stay in Pakistan.
     Dr. Flex Ermacora talked to Pakistani officials and other organizations working for the refugees. He has a mandate to prepare a report for the next session of the human rights .commission of UN.
                                                                    ,***
     An Iranian official in charge of Afghan refugees has said that
 700.000  Afghan refugees live in Khurasan province, of which
 170.000 live in the refugee camps in Baiijand and Qayinat along the border with Afghanistan. The refugees in the camps are provided with food and medical assistance.
k. ,     -                         /
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page
  From the Dairy of Jehad
By: Abdul Hafiz
 A short walk around Kabul after the Soviet withdrawal
On the 20th of November, myself and Abdul Ghafar, a resident of Herat who has been working in the Education Committee of the Supervisory Council for one and a half years, started our journey from Panjshir to Pakistan. A truck made in East Germany and captured by the Mujahideen from the Russians took us to die town of Gulbahar at the mouth of the Panjshir Valley.
     From the Panjshir to Pakistan there are two routes, one through Badakhshan which reaches Chitral and the second around Kabul to Parachinar. We took the second route because die northern route was very cold.
     The bazaar in Gulbahar (a town controlled by Jami'at) was flourishing with goods and the people from Panjshir and other districts used the bazaar to purchase their needed items.
     The Salang highway had just opened after a twenty day blockage by the Mujahideen in North Salang. As a result of recent fighting, the regime lost a large number of trucks. They retaliated by destroying a considerable number of houses resulting in the forced evacuation of several hundred people to take up refugee status in neighboring valleys.
     In addition, the blockage of the Salang highway caused the prices of food and fuel to rise considerably, for example die price of fuel oil tripled and a seven kilogram bag of wheat was commonly being sold for 2000 Afs, which is two times higher than prior to the blockage.
     After a tea break, we walked to the village of Totom Dara at the mouth of the Ghorband Valley and situated close to the Red Fort which is a regime base at the mouth of the Ghorband and Salang Valleys over looking Shamali Plateau.
     Historians say that Alexander the Great had used the same area as a base for his troops before attacking the North through the Panjshir valley.
     The Jami'at commander in Totom Dara is Abdul Wakil. He is Commander Hukum's brother who was martyred some time ago. Wakil is a tall man and with a long beard. He cannot read and write but has mastered the art of dealing with people through practical experience.
     In Totom Dara, despite being close to the enemy base and die Salang highway, the Mujahideen have opened schools for the children. The voice of children singing revolutionary songs can be over heard by the enemy posts along the toad side.
     A famous martyr from this area was Hukum Khan who was well known for his courage. He had many scars on his body which were the result of wounds inflicted by the enemy on him. The story of his death is interesting. He was crossing the road on a horse when the enemy fired at him with a machine-gun from a close distance. He was killed and his horse was wounded, but the horse took Hukum Khan's body which was hanging from the saddle to a Mujahideen controlled area.
     In the evening we were taken to the area controlled by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar). The commander of the area was Sher Aaqa who succeeded Abdul Wahid. Wahid was killed in an incident of sabotage some months ago. The rumor was that rivals in his own party killed him. Wahid was famous for his good relations with the Mujahideen from other parties.
 A local commander showed us a letter signed by General Baigi, the commander of the regime's forces in Parwan and Kapisa. He had urged the Mujahideen to join the national reconciliation in return for money and other benefits.
     The next day we entered Bagram which is controlled by Jami'at. The people in Bagram were living in relative peace. The abandoned district head-quarters of the regime is now used as the Mujahideen offices. The largest regime air base is situated in Bagram district. The local people spoke fondly of Commander Shafaq who was killed last year.
     To ensure a safe passage to Kabul, the regime has built a new road connecting Bagram air base to Khawja Rawash air base in Kabul. The road passes through inhabited areas. Local elders said that the new road follows a. track used by the people in the past to walk to Kabul. The route passed through the famous area called Dasht-i-Qala-Haji Sahib.
     After the regime built the new road, the old road which passed through Shakar Dara was blocked. Now the peo-
 ple in Kohdaman are facing tremendous shortages in essential commodities due to road blockage.
     Kohdaman include Istalif, Qarabagh, Shakar Dara and the surrounding areas. The people of this area captured Kabul and installed the Second Habibullah in King Ammanuillah's place when the later antagonized the people by his alien reforms.
     Prices of food in Kohdaman after the road blockage increased considerably and the harvested grapes which is the main source of income for the local people were not sold in Kabul resulting in great economic problems for the local people.
     We crossed the road to enter Qarabagh. We passed close to the regime posts and they did not disturbed us. It seemed that if the Mujahideen did not attack the regime troops they would not bother the Mujahideen.
     In Qrabagh, Hezb Islami, Jami'at and Ittihad have strong influence. Relations between Hezb and Jami'at were not friendly. Local dignitaries were trying to solve the differences among them.
     The regime contrails the district headquarters of Qarabagh. We passed close to the regime positions on our way to Istalif sub-district We spent one night in Istalif which is famous for its natural beauty.
     Before the war Istalif was a picnic place for the people of Kabul and a tourist spot The blue pottery of Istalif and its fur coats were attractive to visitors, in addition to its delicious fruits and friendly people.
     Last year I did not see any pottery in the Istalif bazaar, but now the people have resumed this traditional business. Jami'at is in control of Istalif and the people there live in peace. Sufi Muhammad Rasool from Jami'at has his base in Istalif.
 The government has a symbolic presence in Istalif but it does not have anything to do with the people. The Mujahideen have tolerated the presence of an enemy out post in return for free passage of food and other essential goods from the regime controlled areas. The bazaar in Istalif provides goods not only to the local people but to all the Kohdaman area.
     On the 23rd of November, we ar-
                                                                                                                                 
                                          AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3,                               February 1,1990, page Q           
rived in Shakar Dara. Dr. Khan Agha       Jn all the villages along the              Cambodia                                    
and Anwar Khan are Jami'at command¬       Mujahideen rout, Hazaras have built ba¬                 | From page (5) |              
ers in this district. Shakar Dara was     zaars. We saw bakeries, tinsmith              seat is occupied by the Kabul regime.    
being bombarded by enemy artillery        shops, tea houses and shops selling        The Afghan resistance is composed           
units stationed at the Khairkhana Pass,   spare parts of trucks.                     of parties which have had no experience     
north of the city of Kabul every day.     ■m /irujahideen trucks coming from         in running the country. Few parties had     
Arab volunteers had built a health clin¬  1VIPakistan were bringing food             limited activities before the communist     
ic in Shakar Dara.                        and were taking back scrab                 coup of 1978, the remaining were            
The track that we used last year to       metals from Russian tanks and trucks.      formed after the coup.                      
go from Shakar Dara to Paghman was        A commander from Nasre party               One of the factions of the                  
blocked by the regime and we had to       said that a delegation of die 9-party coa¬ Cambodian resistance, the Khmer             
take a new route. The new route is use-   lition had gone to meet with               Rouge, was in power in Cambodia             
able only at nights because during the    Commander Masood last month. The           when the Vietnamese invaded that            
day one can be seen by enemy out          delegation headed by Akber Khan            country in 1978. The Khmer Rouge            
posts. Last year Soviet planes dropped    Nargis discussed ways of cooperation       ruled the country in an oppressive way      
flares and watched the roads but we did   between the Supervisory Council and        and more than a million Cambodians          
not see a single flight during that night the Coalition of nine Shia parties. The    lost their lives under Khmer Rouge          
that we passed through the area.          two sides agreed to cooperate with each    rule. The world seem concerned about        
Militia forces of the regime were         other.                                     the monopoly of power by this party         
in control of mountain top posts in       In Taizak area a commander of              which is the largest of the three resis¬    
Paghman. One week before our arrival,     Harakat (Mohsini ) took 23000 Afs.         tance groups. This party has replaced       
the Mujahideen had captured four posts    from the drivers of trucks as road tax.    its old leadership and says it will run     
in Pachak Hill. In retaliation, the re¬   In Chack district the drivers paid 25000   the country under coalition with other      
gime forces fired Origan (BM-27) rock¬    and 15000 respectively in two places       groups.                                     
ets which were based in Qargha.           for men from Hikmatyar's party.            The Islamic nature of the Afghan            
The Mujahideen said that BM-27.           The Chack power plant is present¬          resistance has become a source of con¬      
rockets exploded in the air spreading 30  ly idle. Its workers are being paid by     cern to some people who supported           
cluster bombs over the target area. This  the Kabul regime based on a tacit agree¬   Afghans in their war against the            
is a deadly anti-personnel weapon.        ment between the Mujahideen and the        Soviets. They are afraid of the emer¬       
The Mujahideen have established a         Kabul regime.                              gence of "a radical Islamic state". The     
new base in Arghandeh and were build¬     From Wardak we reached                     closer the resistance is to the victory     
ing a road between Maidan and             Mohammad Aagha, a district in Logar.       the bigger these worries grow.              
Paghman. We saw 50 Hazaras working        This area was the scene of fighting be¬    Thee Cambodian resistance is ready :        
on the road.                              tween the Mujahideen and the commu¬        to .form a coalition government with        
ince there was trouble in Maidan          nist forces some weeks before we ar¬       the regime of Heng Samrin under cer- ,      
between Hezb (Hikmatyar) and              rived. The enemy convoys wanted to         tain conditions, while the Afghan resis- :  
^ Harakat, we had to take a longer        reach Gardiz but failed. Regime planes     tance rejects any type of deal with the     
route. After passing Jalriz, we reached   bombed the area during the night. This     Najibullah regime. This brings the          
Takana, where the inhabitants are         is a transit point between Pakistan and    chance of a political solution in           
Hazaras. From here trucks go to           several destinations inside Afghanistan.   Cambodia closer than in Afghanistan.        
Pakistan.                                 We found a place to sleep in a             The Soviets withdrew their forces           
Shia parties had built check posts        mosque but women and children in the       based on an international agreement;        
along the way. Their posts were deco¬     trucks passed a difficult night It was a   the Geneva Accords, signed on April         
rated with picture of Imam Khomeyni,      cold night and one of the children died.   14, 1988. This agreement, which was         
Ayatullah Muntaziri, Muhammad             From Logar to Dobandy, there               signed behind the back of the               
Ismail Bukhi (an Afghan Shia leader       were two more check posts of Hezb          Mujahideen, prohibits Pakistan from         
who died in jail). Takana is at the bor¬  Islami. They forcibly confiscated goods    supporting the Mujahideen while the         
der of Hazarajat, the stronghold of Shia  being transported from Pakistan to         Soviets are not bound to any restric¬       
parties. Shia parties recently formed a   Afghanistan.                               tions in support of the Kabul regime.       
hew Alliance in which Shoora-e-Ittifaq    Bombing of the road continued all          The Geneva Accords have turned              
party also participated.                  night. The regime makes use of trans¬      into a propaganda tool for the Soviet       
Hazarajat is a cold area and its land     port planes to bomb the road which is      Union and the Kabul regime to use           
is not very fertile for growing crops.    used by refugees and Mujahideen. Hezb      against the Mujahideen and Pakistan.        
The people are poor and they were         has established a check post in Jaji in    The withdrawal of Vietnamese                
forced to work in Kabul to earn their     which the passengers' party affiliations   forces was a decision of Vietnam and        
living.                                   are checked. These posts were esta¬        no international agreement was              
Most Hazaras are Shia. They have          blished after Hikmatyar left the interim   involved.                                   
their own political parties, nine of      government.                                The two resistances are facing an           
which are based in Tehran. These peo¬     Two months ago, 13 Jami'at rucks           uphill battle in both military and polit¬   
ple complain about bad treatment they     loaded with weapons and goods were         ical fields. They need to show their su¬    
received from all governments in          captured in Jaji by Hezb and their driv¬   periority in the battlefield despite short¬ 
Kabul* Now they are demanding change      ers are still in custody of that party.    ages in supplies and fighting a new         
and want representation in a futur        After nine days we arrived                 type of war.                                
government.                               Pakistan.                                  They also have to preserve the              
They claim to form 25 percent of          Note: The writer has puplished the         sympathy of their international sup-        
the whole population of Afghanistan       account of his first trip on November      praters who now look at both conflicts      
while others estimate them seven per      15. 1988 issue of AFGHANews.               as civil wars.                              
cent of the population.                                                                                                          
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 3, February 1,1990, page ©
         Ranking US official discusses Afghan situation with AIG
    The US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, Robert M. Kimmitt, visited the region to assess the situation in Afghanistan prior to Foreign Secretary Baker's trip to Moscow in February.
    Mr. Kimmitt visited Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and India and discussed the Afghan situation with leaders of those countries.
    Prior to Mr. Kimmitt’s trip the regional media speculated about a possible change in the American position regarding Afghanistan.
    During his two-day visit to Pakistan (January 17-18) he met with President Ghulam Ishaq Khan , Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan and army chief of staff General Mirza Aslam Baig. He discussed the Afghan situation and other bilateral issues with them.
    After these meetings he told reporters that both Pakistan and the US were in basic agreement on Afghan issue. He reiterated the US support for the struggle of Afghans to exercise their right of self-determination and emphasized the removal of the Najib government as a first step towards a political settlement.
    He said that Pakistan's and the US's common aims in Afghanistan were the right of Afghans to determine their own future, the honorable return of the refugees and the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
    Mr. Kimmitt visited Peshawar to talk to leaders of the Afghan Interim Government and hear their views about
the situation in Afghanistan. AIG President Prof. Mujaddidi informed Mr. Kimmitt of the AIG's plan to hold elections and expressed the views of the AIG on the political and military aspects of the problem. Prof. Mujaddidi hosted a luncheon in honor of Mr. Kimmitt and his entourage.
     At the end of Mr. Kimmitt's trip to India, a spokesman of the Indian Foreign Ministry said that he did not see any change in the position of the American government regarding Afghanistan.
     India has maintained close ties with the Kabul regime both during and since the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
     Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, accompanied Mr. Kimmitt on his tour.
     Informed sources believe that the US is reviewing its Afghan policy and Mr. Kimmitt's visit to the area was an assessment mission.
     When the Mujahideen failed to achieve a quick victory, some members of the US Congress demanded that US policy on Afghanistan be reviewed.
     American officials have shown concern that the administration may not be able get enough funding from the Congress to support the military activities of the Mujahideen. The Afghan war was very popular among Americans as long the Soviet troops were in Afghanistan. After the Soviet troops' withdrawal, the Afghan war came to an end for some Americans.
Four Mujahideen leaders pay visit to Saudi Arabia
    Four Mujahideen leaders left for Saudi Arabia on January 21.
    They included Prof. Sayyaf, Prof. Rabbani, Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi and Mawlawi Younus Khalis.
    During their unofficial visit they perform Umra and met with Saudi officials to discuss with them the situation in Afghanistan.
    Since the trip took place immediately after the announcement regarding the holding of elections, it is more significant
    Saudi Arabia is a staunch supporter
of the Mujahideen and has recognized the Interim Government of the Mujahideen.
                                           Jami'at supports Azari Muslims
   Jami'at Islami Afghanistan condemns the use of fence by Moscow against Azerbaijan Muslims.
   In an interview cm telephone from Saudi Arabia, Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani has expressed his support for the just struggle of Muslims in Azarbaijan.
  January 18,1990 triA «=jl* ^
Area/Tem. in C°     H L    
Kabul               1 0    
 ranin 13mm, snow 10cm     
North Salang       -6 -7   
 rain 29mm, snow 186cm     
Chekhcharan        -2 -13  
  rain 1mm, snow 27cm      
Shebiighan          6 -1   
              I            
 Mazar-i-Sharif    11 0    
Kunduz              9 -3 . 
Toorghondi          6 -2   
Herat              11 -1   
Lashkargah         12 4    
Farah              15 5    
Zaranj             16 6    
Lashkargah         15 10   
rain 3mm                   
Kandahar           13 8    
Talaialwd          10 9    
rain 3mm                   
Faizabad           10 1    
k.                      -j 
                ■taul      
  9ieCp us puBfish
                                      WQlHMbzvs!
                                    (PCease send your donations to the following account number:
                                      3'EML'D Account 9{p. 735-37 tHiabib (Bank.Ltd. ‘Tehk&C Bala, (Peshawar (Pakistan
Vol 6, No 4
February 15,1990
     US Secretary of State fails to sell his peace plan to Soviet leaders
     James Baker's conciliatory peace formula for Afghanistan could not persuade the Soviet Union's leaders to compromise on the issue. It made Afghans worry about US commitment in support of their cause.
     The US Secretary of State went to Moscow on February 7 with a new
                                                     Donors’ attitude worries PVOs
     Representatives of relief organizations stressed the need for the continuation of humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people.
     They expressed their views in a three-day conference held in New York on February 9 on the theme, Afghanistan: changing relations with the PVOs'. It was sponsored by the Afghanistan Relief Committee, a New York-balsed support organization.
     In addition to the member of the private voluntary organizations (PVOs) representatives of the UN, Red Cross, Pakistan Government and Afghan Interim Government also participated.
     Speakers in the conference expressed their concern over the reduction of humanitarian assistance by the donor countries for the war-affected Afghans. They also were concerned about shortages of food in some parts of Afghanistan.
     They complained about the lack of co-ordination between UN agencies, USAID, the Afghan Interim government and PVOs.
     PVOs have played a key r;ole in providing assistance for the refugees and war-affected Afghans inside Afghanistan.
     Recent reports show that North and North-West of Afghanistan are facing shortages of food supplies.
     After the Soviet troops withdrawal the donor countries have shown less interest to support the needy Afghans while the war has continued and people still suffer.
 peace proposal to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan.
     The US made a concession to Moscow by dropping its demand for the removal of Najibullah from power before any negotiations for peace could start. According to the new American proposal, negotiations could start while Najib is still in power but he should leave in the later stages of the peace process.
     According to the plan, die Mujahideen will hold an election for a truly representative Shoora (council). In the second phase the good "Muslims" in Kabul will be introduced to the Shoora and then a transitional administration, created by the council will take power and prepare the ground for a permanent set up.
     According to the plan somewhere between the second and third phases Najib should step down.
     Moscow did not accept the idea and repeated its earlier position of: holding negotiations between the opposition and Naji; mutual cutting of arms to both sides and holding general elections under yN auspices.
     The new American formula was evolved after US Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs made a trip to Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and India during which the Afghanistan problem was discussed.
   * Mr. ! Kimmitt met with the Mujahideen leaders and discussed with them ways of ending the war in Afghanistan.
      American officials say that they discussed the new proposal with Mujahideen leaders. But in the absence any preliminary meetings of US officials with the Mujahidefn leaders to discuss such an important issue, two hours, of talks (including lunch) might not have given the Mujahideen leaders a full insight into the nature of the.pro-posal which concerned the future of their country.- .
                                                                                                                  The Geneva accords were, discussed under similar circumstances.
 The Mujahideen were given repeated assurances for a just deal but it was signed against their wishes.
     Not only Afghans, but their supporters in the US Congress have shown concern about the shift of US Afghan policy. Eight Senators informed Baker of their concern when he was visiting Moscow. They warned the US administration against any deal which could give any rule, transitional or permanent, to Najibullah in the future political life of Afghans.
     Some observers attribute the inflexible attitude of Moscow to the inability of the resistance to defeat the Kabul regime and think that Baker's plan came at a time when the resistance was not in a strong military position. It was easy for the Soviets to ignore it.
     A major problem in any negotiated settlement is lack of coordination between the supporters of the resistance. Tension between Iran and Saudi Arabia and Iran and the USA can jeopardize efforts to bring unity between the Peshawar-based and Iran-based Mujahideen parties. Lack of coordina turn between the supporters of the Afghan resistance will be exploited by the Soviets.
   . The shift in American attention from Afghanistan to other issues could also prove fatal. Dealing with a compli cated issue through newly appointed diplomats and a strong feeling for early disengagement from what it is called the "Afghanistan mess" could lead to more undesirable compromises which will not be acceptable to the Afghan people.
      If the US and other Mujahideen supporters stick to their stated policy of supporting the genuine right of self-determination for the Afghan people, in letter and spirit, the Afghans do not have any reason to worry too much But very often these terms are inter preted differently by different people to fit their immediate situations. This is the point which worries, the Mujahideen the most.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
                   News
    From the battlefields ^ ■ - _________________>
    Parwan province
     • More than 120 vehicles were destroyed and 100 soldiers were killed by an huge explosion in the regime base of Qala-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley on January 24. The explosion was caused by a time bomb set by Jami’at members within the base.
    The explosion which took place at 8:30 am set on fire a convoy loaded with fuel, ammunition and goods which liad reached the base the evening before.
     The area was covered with smoke arising from burning vehicles and installations. Explosions and fires continued the whole day.
     Most of the one hundred soldiers killed belonged to the ill-fated enemy convoy.
     Qala-i-Surkh was a Russian base in Jabulseraj which was handed oyer to the regime when the Soviets left last February. Since it is located at the mouth of the strategic Salang valley it serves as a transit point for the enemy military and supply convoys. Because of its. location, it provides protection for the enemy controlled areas in major parts of the Shemali plateau. It is located on high ground overlooking Shemali.
    Jami'at controls all the liberated areas around the base. The Mujahideen commander in Jabulseraj is Dagarwal Ghulam Jailani.
     Commander Masood has called the explosion a big incident.
     •Thirty seven' soldiers, including five officers, were killed and eight tanks and trucks were destroyed when the Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked an enemy convoy near Bagram Air Base on January 8.
     The tanks and truck were either destroyed by land mines or were hit with RPG rocket launchers. The Mujahideen seized 40 boxes of
 Kalashnikov ammunitions and 300 mortar shells.
     •On January 9, the Mujahideen fired heavy weapons into Bagram Air Base, killing 27 enemy soldiers and destroying 9 vehicles.
     The operations in Bagram area were launched under the command of Sahibulhaq, Jami'at's commander in Bagram district.
     Kabul province
     •Four enemy soldiers were killed and two were wounded in Easa Khail village of Paghman district when the enemy tried to capture the village on January 28. The enemy retreated when it faced fierce resistance by the Mujahideen.
     •An enemy MiG-21 jet fighter was shot down on February 1 in Paghman district. The jet was bombing the Mujahideen position in Dara-i-Zargar when it was hit with ZPU (14-6mm) anti aircraft machine gun fire.
     One of the two pilots was killed and the other ejected but was killed when he refused to surrender and tried to escape.
     The regime forces launched a retaliatory attack which was repulsed.
     •In two separate incidents, two enemy trucks were destroyed by landmine explosions in Deh Sabz district.
     On January 31, a truck belonging to the local militia forces was destroyed when, it hit a landmine planted by the Mujahideen near Abdara-i-Sufla village. Six enemy soldiers were killed and one officer was injured.
     Two days later, a landmine destroyed another truck, killing four soldiers and injuring eight.
     According to a report by Mullah Fazlur Rahman, Jami'at commander in Deh Sabz, his Mujahideen have captured two trucks full of wheat and one
 oil tanker in Qala-i-Ghulam Qadir village and killed or wounded some enemy soldiers. One Mujahid was wounded in the operation. The Mujahideen also attacked a unit of enemy forces stationed in Maidan Deh Sabz, destroying one tank and one jeep. Seven soldiers and one officer were killed in the operation.
    The unit was stationed along the newly-built Kabul-Parwan road to provide security for the regime convoys.
  Kandahar province
    •An enemy transport plane was shot down near Kandahar airport on February 8. The plane was about to land when it was hit by a rocket fired by the Mujahideen from Jami'at. No details of the casualties were available.
    Kanadahar is the second largest city in Afghanistan besieged by the Mujahideen. It is mainly supplied by air.
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at clashed with the enemy in Maiwand district in Kandahar on January 29, destroying two trucks and killed an unknown number of enemy soldiers'. One Mujahid was killed and two Mujahideen were injured.
    •Commander Mullah Naqibullah reported that his Mujahideen attacked an enemy post near Pushtoon Bagh in Dand district on February 5, destroying one enemy tank, killing two soldiers and wounding seven. The Mujahideen lost one man in a mine explosion.
    •The Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Naqibullah attacked an enemy post near Kandahar jail on January 28. Two enemy soldiers were killed, three soldiers were wounded and seven armed soldiers joined the Mujahideen. Two Mujahideen were wounded in the operation.
                         /
    •The Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Naqibullah cut the supply routes of the enemy posts in Chil Zeena and Mahbas areas on February 9. The enemy launched an attack to clear the road. Seventeen enemy soldiers were killed.
    Nimroz province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed a unit of the regime's militia forces in Kang district, killing four militiamen and wounding eight.
    In the fighting which continued for
                                                   Turn to page ( 4 )
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
Who’s who in the Mujahideen
Sufi Mohammad Rasool
     Commander Sufi Mohammad Rasool was bom in the village of Hasan Khail in the sub-district of Farzah 53 years ago. His father was a poor farmer. Mohammad Rasool's education consisted of him attending a Mosque school for his primary years, where after he tended his father’s farm tip until the Communist coup of 1978. All accounts of his life up to this junction indicate that Mohammad Rasool was a deeply religious man, who was respected by the local people as a person who always kept his promises. He was given the title of "Sufi" by the people due to his pious life style.
     The Communist coup was a turning point in Sufi Rasool's life. His representative in Peshawar recalled that Sufi Rasool had attended a political meeting organized'by the Communists shortly after the coup in 1978, where the Communists insulted Islam. Sufi Rasool strongly expressed reservations against the Communist government and their policies. Sufi Rasool's outspokenness immediately placed his life in danger, forcing him to retreat to the Farzah Valley where he made his initial contact with the Mujahideen. He impressed the local people with the force and power of his personality and was yery successful in dealing and solving the problems of the people which is an essential area which all Commanders must deal with if they are to obtain the respect of the people. Sufi Rasool was particularly successful in this regard.
     Sufi Rasool spent two years in the Farzah Valley after which he formed in 1980 the first Mujahideen base in Dara-i-Marghazar located in this valley. This was prompted after a visit to Peshawar where Professor Rabbani authorized him to take command of the sub-districts of Istalif and Farzah. Initially 100 men came under his command, but they were poorly equipped with very old guns. However, he was able to overcome some difficulties by having very good relations with other parties of the Mujahideen, and by being respected by the Supervisory Council's Command, headed by Commander Masood. \
     Three significant battles were fought in his first two years of command.
     The first involved the seizure of the district administration headquarters of Qarabagh in 1980, which resulted in the capture of 50 enemy soldiers.
     The second occurred in 1981 when
 Soviet troops attack his command base in Farzah. A fierce battle erupted where 30 of his men were completely surrounded by the enemy who were supplied with tanks and helicopters. The men fought with courage but were all eventually martyred, and were subsequently buried at "Koh-i Shahidan" which translates to "Martyrs Mountain".
     The third occurred in 1982 in the village of Hasan Dara. Twenty of Sufi Rasool's men including himself were ambushed by Soviet troops. Only Sufi Rasool and one other man managed to escape while all the others eventually were killed. It is said that during the battle that many bullets seemingly hit the Commander, but fortunately they luckily passed through the loose flaps of his clothes.
     Sufi Rasool now bases his command and lives in Istalif, which is a strategic location overlooking the Salang Highway. Due to continuous pressure exerted by Sufi Rasool's men and other Mujahideen, they have forced the regime to build a new road.
     Also in 1982, Commander Sufi Rasool and his men were responsible for the Capture of 100 militiamen in the district of Guldara.
     hi 1985, Sufi Rasool’s deputy commander, Abdush Shokoor was martyred. .
     In 1988, Sufi Rasool visited Panjshir to meet Professor Rabbani, and was appointed as Commander of areas north of Kabul.
     Sufi Rasool’s private and family life is high lighted by him having 13 children. However, his brother Mohammad Sharif was captured by the Communist regime of Hafizullah Amin and is now presumed dead.
1
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
If there is only bread and onions, still have a happy face.
Meaning: " Be content with such things as you have."
 A warm fire is better than delicious cooked rice.
 Meaning: Warmth is more important than food.
 ■ii                  ^ /*
Every anguish passes except the anguish of hunger.
Meaning: God wants us to eat and drink but not to overeat, or, we are to eat to live and


 not live to eat.
 One who doesn't appreciate the apple, won't appreciate the orchard.
 Meaning: If we don't appreciate little things, we won't ap-
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4/ February 15,1990, page ©

    Editorial
V_______________________________________________________________________
  Anniversary of Soviet troops withdrawal
    February 15 marks the first anniversary of the Soviet troop withdrawal from Afghanistan. It was a great victory for Afghans and all those who supported their cause and a major defeat for the Red Army and the Soviet Union's expansionist policies.
    Unfortunately the withdrawal did not result in the restoration of peace through the exercise of the right of the Afghans to determine their future. The Kabul regime which was imposed on December 1979 by the Red Army remained in power and the Mujahideen had to continue their war of liberation against it.
    The main obstacle in the way of peace is the Soviet attitude. That country has continued to support the illegal regime of Najibullah. The presence of Soviet advisors; support with great quantities of arms and ammunition and massive propaganda against the resistance are clear signs of Soviet determination to impose on Afghanistan a regime which will serve their strategic interests.
    Against the expectation of the world community the Kabul regime survived at least for one year after the withdrawal. This was interpreted as a sign of weakness by the resistance and strength of the regime. These {developments have caused concern among some supporters of the resistance and they question their policy of support for the Mujahideen.
    The survival of the regime has given a new hope to the Soviet Union and has made it less flexible in finding a political solution excluding the Kabul regime.
    While the review of their Afghan policy by the supporters of the resistance in the light of new developments is understandable, their impatience and unreasonable expectations from the resistance should not form a base for a change of policy. The past under-estimation of the difficulties should not pave the way for fut ture mistakes.
    At the same time the inflexible Soviet position should not be interpreted as that country's confidence in the regime winning the war. The Soviet Union must have learned a lesson from its temyears involvement in Afghanistan that the war in Afghanistan is not to be decided in one or two campaigns. One year's survival of the regime does not mean total victory for the Soviet puppets.
    The past one year has taught many lessons to the resistance too. It showed that the resistance was facing a new political and military situation and its failure to unite its political ranks had a negative effect on its military efforts.
    In the military field the Mujahideen faced a new type of war which needed re-organization, coordination and more supplies of arms and ammunition.
    The events of last year taught the Mujahideen to act more carefully in battlefields, avoid battles they are not ready for and act together in order to get the desired result.
    A quick study of military situation of the Kabul regime show.s that the basic weaknesses of the regime are: man power, terrain, popular support, total dependence on the Soviet Union and vulnerable transportation lines. These problems stops tlie enemy from taking any bold step to change the military situation in its favor.
    The resistance, compared to the regime, is in a good position to win the war. In order to do this it has to re-organize itself and forge unity among different groups.
    The supporters of the resistance should not be disappointed by the delay of victory because the war in Afghanistan has a protracted nature. If the Mujahideen are forced to shorten their time of action they will make irreparable mistakes. A political solution should be sought but not at the expense of a compromise on the right of Afghans to self-determination.
    The Soviet Union does not have enough reasons to be optimistic. It has tested the patience of Afghans and might be aware of the hatred of Afghans towards the regime. The Soviet Union can not provide unlimited aid to the regime for an
 unlimited period of time when it can not meet the basic needs of its own people.
    Furthermore, the Soviet Union is facing tremendous problems at home and turmoil in Afghanistan will not help stability in their own country. The Soviet leaders know that the Kabul regime cannot bring peace to Afghanistan and supporting it only prolongs the war. It is in their best interest to give a chance to the Afghans-to choose their future and that is the only way to gain peace - and stability in Afghanistan. The international community should maintain pressure on the Soviet Union to stop supporting the "illegal regime" of Najibullah.
 Battlefield News
    | From page (2)
 five hours, the Mujahideen captured three Kalashnikov rifles.
                                                                                            Farah province
    •Two enemy helicopters were shot down by the Mujahideen in Shindand on February 7.
    •Commander Abdul Haleem's men attacked the enemy position in Lashkargah, the provincial capital of Farah, killing eight enemy soldiers on February 8.               ,
                                                                                            Herat province
    The Mujahideen under the command of Ismael Khan attacked militia positions in Bagh-i-Dasht area, killing one officer of the regime on February 8. Five armed militiamen were captured. The Mujahideen seized one R-105 wireless set.
  Helmand province
    On February 9, 30 enemy soldiers were killed and 20 were injured when they surrounded Saidan area of Gerishk district. Fighting between the Mujahideen and the communist forces continued for 15 hours.
  , Ten Mujahideen were killed and 14 were wounded. The siege was broken and the enemy retreated.
    The Mujahideen fought , the battle under die command of Maulawi Ata Mohammad.
     Ghore province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed enemy troops, killing five and wounding an unknown number. The Mujahideen seized some guns and two Mujahideen sustained injuries.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page Q~~|
Soviets' casualties in 9-year
war
     The Soviet Union has released new details of its casualties during the Afghan conflict.
     The new figures, which have been attributed to the General Staff, are broken down by year and differentiate between total losses, combat deaths, and losses among officers.
     The new figures put the Soviet death toll between 1979-88 at 13833, of which 11381 (82 per cent) were combat fatalities. The remainder died through careless handling of their weapons or as a result of wounds or illness.
     Deaths of officers during this period amounted to 1979, or 14 per cent of total losses. Of these, 1755 were killed inaction.
     The new figures indicate that
 Soviet losses peaked in 1984, when total deaths numbered 2343, including 305 officers. The lowest full-year figure was 759, in 1988.
     The losses during the last phase of Soviet withdrawal, in January-February of 1989, were exceedingly low: 53, including 10 officers. v
     Previous Western estimates have suggested that up to 50,000 Soviet soldiers may have been killed in Afghanistan.
     ♦The same benefits accorded to Afghan veterans will also apply "to servicemen who took part in combat actions in Vietnam, Syria, Egypt and other countries," acknowledging Soviet combat roles in those nations.
     Source: Jane's Defence weekly
The Afghan Complex
    In an interview with Sovetskaya Rossiya (15 November) Colonel General Boris Gromov, the last commander of the 40th Army in Afghanistan and t^e "last man out" of the country, spoke of the "so-called 'Afghan complex'. A . survey by Moscow University School of Psychology found that 60% of Afghan veterans feel the psychological impact of the war, a third of them in an acute form. The Afgantsy( Afghan veterans) have a reputation for abnormal aggression and for outbursts of fierce anger against those who question them too persistently about their experiences. At the same time, Afgantsy are often portrayed in the press as a force for social renewal, model citizens in their patriotism and concern for others. Clearly, as General Gromov noted, the impact of
 the war depends on the personality of the veteran. The "Afghan complex has
                                                       positive and negative sides and it
                                                       seems that Soviet society and indeed
                                                       the Soviet Army itself find both aspects
 hard to cope with.
                                                             Hooligan Behavior
    •Afghan veterans have been encouraged to join the POSM (Workers' Detachments for Cooperation with the Militia) and have helped arrest drunks, speculators, illicit distillers and so on. But there is a large element among the Afgantsy whose enthusiasm for stamping out corrupt and decadent groups in society is hard to distinguish from plain hooliganism.-"Punks'* and other young-
 sters favouring western pop music and "Mafioso" have been beaten up by Afgantsy and it was outraged Afgantsy who destroyed the grave of a well-known Moscow "mafioso" buried next to a soldier killed in Afghanistan.
     Sometimes there is not even the excuse of righteous indignation. In August 1988, Airborne Forces Day was marked by drunken disturbances in Moscow and several other cities. In October this year it was said that 3,000 Afghan veterans were serving prison sentences. Difficulties in adjusting to civilian life are said to have contributed to this. It is also admitted that some veterans acquired the drug habit in Afghanistan.
     (Extracts from an article by Michael Orr published in Soviet Analyst of date 20 December 1989.)    *
 Soviet Mujahid Jailed
 A Soviet citizen has been sentenced to eight years in prison on charge of having contact with the Afghan Resistance. The Soviet News Agency TASS reported that Abdul Hamid Dablatev allegedly crossed the Soviet border of the Repbulic of Tajikistan and joined the Mujahideen. After receiving training he returned to Tajikistan to organize an underground group of Soviet Muslims." He was captured by the security forces and sentenced to jail The people in the Soviet Central Asian republics have ethnic and religious ties with the. Afghan people.
    The Political Councillor of the Soviet embassy in Islamabad has said that Najib is ready to transfer power to a transitional government headed by*the ex-king.
                                                                •••
    About five thousand, refugees demonstrated on January 25 in front of the President of the AIG in Peshawar to express their opposition to the method of elections proposed by the AIG.
    Apparently the demonstration was organized by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar). The protestors had also raised slogans against the ex-king, Mohammad Zahir Shah.
          ' •••
    Commando- Atiyatullah of Maimana told AFGHANews on January 29 that recent reports arriving from Faryab refer to acute shortages of food in that province. .
    He said that the food shortage has made life extremely difficult for the people of that province.
                                                                •••
    A spokesman of the Azarbaijan popular front said in Moscow that if the Soviet troops are not withdraw from the province, Azeris willstart a guerilla war against die Red Army like that of the Afghans. One day after his statement he was arrested in Moscow.
                                                                •••
    The AIG has called for an emergency meeting of the OIC Foreign Ministers Conference to discuss the situation in Kashmir and Azerbaijan. The statement of the AIG adds that the Afghan people can not remain indifferent towards the suffering of their Muslim brothers.
                                                                •M
    Sixty war-wounded Afghan children will be treated in a private hospital in Birminghah, UK free.
    The first group of four were flown to the UK on January 16. The wounded children will stay with families of the Muslim community in the Midlands while they undergo medical treatment.             ■
  I
—---- ~~ AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, Febraary 15,1990, page ©
Azerbaijanis’ struggle poses serious threat to
By: Marie Broxup
     Certain republics and cities have a special importance in. the eyes of Soviet Muslims. Such is the case of Azerbaijan a land of ancient history, the birthplace of Nizami Gandjavi and a cross road for Persian and Turkic influences. For a short period after the Russian Revolution, from May 1918 to April 1920, Azerbaijan was an independent republic, the first ever Muslim republic. Before the Revolution it was the Azeris, together with the Tatars who led the reformist Jadid movement and provided the intellectual leadership of the national liberation struggle among the Muslims from the Russian Empire.
 Strategically the importance of Azerbaijan, bordering Iran and Turkey is self evident. Contrary to the republics of Central Asia it is developed industrially with important chemical and oil industries. Because of this Azerbaijan has the capacity to bring havoc to the whole of the Soviet economy as happened during the general strike in September 1989. What is more, the two neighboring Transcaucasian republics, Armenia and Georgia are to a great extent dependent on Azerbaijan, a land of riches, for their survival. Today, Azerbaijan like the other union republics enjoys little of its natural wealth with at least 93% of all its natural products, including oil, being exported at fictional prices to the USSR.
     75% of the 7 million Soviet Azeris are Shias (Ithna Ashariya), the remaining 25% are Sunnis of the Hanafi school. However, despite their religious link with Iran, the influence of the Islamic Revolution has been weaker among the Azeris than among other Muslims of USSR. This is due perhaps to the influence of the Iranian Azeris who have not fared as well as they may have expected since the Islamic Revolution, and also to the suspicion provoked by the present rapprochement between Tehran and Moscow.'
     On 16 January 1990 Moscow began dispatching troops to Azerbaijan, a total of some 20,000, to uphold the peace between Armenians and Azerbaijanis. For three, days they remained stationed in Baku airport, in the military garrison and around the city, surrounded by barricades erected by Azerbaijani nationalists. A state of emergency was declared but remained ineffective as the Azerbaijani Communist Party had lost control and representatives of the Popular Front of Azerbaijan were running the Republic.
 IOn 19 January around midnight, having patiently waited while Armenians
 were killed and when the inter-ethnic violence had quietened, the army stormed Baku in a two-pronged attack by land and sea. Tanks and artillery Ere were used to crush the barricades and disperse the demonstrators. The next day the littte autonomous republic of Nakhichevan declared secession from the. USSR. The president of the Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet, Elmira Kafarova, contrary to the example given by Babrak Karmal, in a courageous appeal to the United Nations condemned the military intervention as a gross violation of Azerbaijan's sovereignty, adding that "the people of Azerbaijan will never forgive anyone for the tragic way their sons and daughters have been killed". Spirited resistance continued everywhere:        in
 Lenkoran, Jelalabad and elsewhere the seats of the communist party were stormed, the Baku cadets mutinied (to this day it is unknown how many died in the garrison), the Azeri merchant fleet which was blockading the Soviet warships in the bay of Baku had to be dispersed with canon fire from shore. We know that at least one oil tanker was sunk. On 25 January the official number of casualties was 125. According to a count by the Popular Front there were 552 dead in Baku hospitals alone. The total number of casualties may well run in the thousands.
 Ten days after the uprising Moscow was unable to regain military control. The army which had, according to Moscow, re-occupied Nakhichevan, was incapable of stopping the population building a bridge over the Arax river and crossing into Iran. Politically the situation was no better. According to Afrant Dashtamirov, a member of the Azerbaijani Central Committee, the Popular Front had the support of the majority of the republic. There was talk of secession and resistance "Afghan style". Apart from the general malaise common to all regions of the USSR, three factors have contributed to the crisis: the territorial dispute with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh, the problem of the refugees, and Moscow's categorical refusal to open a dialogue with the new national movements.
      The problems of Nagorno-Karabakh are well known. What is less known is the fact that Karabakh despite having a majority Armenian population, is considered by every Azeri as belonging to the very heart of their ancestral lands and has been for centuries
 a center of Azeri culture. Also, rightly or wrongly, the Azeris consider that since the beginning of the dispute two years ago, Moscow has deliberately favoured the Armenians, promoting in the Soviet media the false idea of a struggle between Armenian glasnost and Azeri Muslim fanaticism and corruption. Moist Soviet Muslims feel that Moscow is leading a "crusade" against Azerbaijan using the conflict to wipe out any hope of national revival and independence.
     For the last two years. Azerbaijanis have been fleeing from Armenia. Today there is not a single Azeri community left in the Armenian republic. The official number of refugees is
 165.000,  but the real figure is near
 220.000.  It is not the first Azeri migration during the Soviet period; after World War 2,100,000 Azeris were forcibly deported from their traditional homeland within Armenia. Contrary to Armenian emigres who were often allowed to leave in some comfort after having sold their apartments, the Azeris arrived empty handed with tales of atrocities equal to those that the Armenians had to suffer in Sumgait Until six months ago all reference to the refugees in the Soviet press, including in Azerbaijan, \**as taboo. Their presence in shanty towns around Baku has contributed to the economic crisis of Azerbaijan, already drained by the incompetent and greedy colonial administration from Moscow.
     The first organized movement of dissent appeared among the industrial workers of Baku under the leadership of a remarkable young man, Neitnat Panakhov, dubbed the "Lech Walesa of Azerbaijan". Strikes and demonstrations began in November and December 1988. The elite of the country after some hesitation followed the popular piovement and join with the masses in establishing the Popular Front. Baku is occupied by the army with tanks at every cross roads, although the troops do not intervene. In Spring 1989, Baku was once again under military control and pressure mounted with the economic blockade and embargo between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The description of the bullish behavior of the Soviet army, seen as an army of occupation, was already comparable with the tales of the Afghan refugees.
 On 2 September 1989 during a gigantic demonstration in Baku (nearly half a million people), the Popular Front threw an ultimatum to the government and declared a general strike-the first ever in a Soviet re-
J
——~ ~ AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page 0
Moscow's oppressive rule
 public. The demands of the Front were at the time moderate:
     1-      an Extra-ordinary Session of the Supreme Soviet of Azerbaijan to discuss a new sovereignty law and the economic independence of the republic;
     2-      liberation of all political prisoners;
     3-      official recognition of die Popular Front;
     4-      new free elections to die Republican Supreme Soviet
     The main lines of the Popular Front's program were no different from the political platforms of the Baltic republics. The aims were political pluralism, free market economy, defence of human rights, freedom to profess religion, and direct control of their national produce without interference from Moscow.
     The Popular Front won this first political battle against the Communist Party, and on 25 September die Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet voted a law on national sovereignty inspired by the Front. From then on the Republican Communist Party began to lose power, and it is indeed to regain control and not to protea the Armenians that Moscow intervened with such brutality on 19 January.
        he immediate consequences of I the intervention were not what Moscow expected: 1- For the first time the Azerbaijani Popular Front and the Armenian National Front declared that they were willing to negotiate under the patronage of the Baltic states. For two years Moscow was unable to promote a dialogue between the communist ‘ party organizations of Armenia.and Azerbaijan. 2- National unity which until then was lacking in Azerbaijan is emerging, with the Party and government cadres siding with the Popular Front against the "foreign" invader. The new radical political parties, such as Yeni MusaWat. which had distanced themselves from the Front in the last few months have regrouped in a show of national solidarity. The Popular Front has shown not only that it can call on the support of the whole nation, but that it is as capable as the Communist Party, if not more so, to administer the republic. 3- The element of disenchantment among the Soviet army reserve is even more evident than during the Afghan war. Moscow will never again be able to motivate the conscript and impose discipline. 4-Moscow will never be able to impose servile candidates; to the national communist parties.
                                                                                                               In the long term the consequences for Moscow will be even more disas-
 trous. Had Gorbachev shown intelligence and flexibility and not intervened militarily, then perhaps the Russian protectorate may have been saved for the future. As the situation stands today, total political and economic independence is the aim of every Azeri having shed their blood, the Azeris will not be content with gradual and slow reforms. Azerbaijan has the economic and political ability to be independent -if it was not for Russian interference it could today be as rich as Kuwait. When it regains independence, as no doubt it will, the Soviet colonial empire will disintegrate because Azerbaijan's example will be followed by all the Muslim republics of the USSR.
     Marie Broxup is the co-editor of Central Asia and Caucasus Chronicle, published by The Society for Central Asian Studies
                                                   92 Lots Road, Unit 8, London SW104BQ,UK
                                                                                                 News Agency starts working
     The Supervisory Council of Jami'at Islami announced the formation of the Hindukush News Agency inside the country on January 23.
     The Agency which is run by the Cultural Committee of the Council has radio contact with fourteen provinces in Afghanistan.
     "The aim' of the agency is to keep the world informed about developments inside Afghanistan," said Qanuni, the head of the Cultural Committee of the Council >
     Hindukush is the name of famous mountain range in North-East Afghanistan. The news collected by the Hindukush News Agency (HINA) is given to the major news agencies based in Pakistan though die Jami'at office.
     Mujahideen have tried in the past to form news agencies outside Afghanistan, but the formation of IONA is the first attempt' by Mujahideen inside the country.
                                               SAMA leader killed by unknown men
    Voice of America reported that Abdul Qayyum, leader of SAMA (Sazman Azadibakh Mardom Afghanistan) Was killed by unknown people in Peshawar on January 27.
    SAMA is a leftist movement which have had underground activities in Afghanistan.
    Abdul Qayyum assumed the leadership of this organization after his brother, Abdul Majid Kalakani was ex-ecuted by the Kabul regime.
    Abdul Qayyumwas a professor in one of the universities in West Germany. At the beginning of the Soviet invasion SAMA. was involved in open mitit^ activities in some parts of Afgh^sM^ Sj^iA is factiptt of Shola-i-Javid(EternalFlame) which was active in the '60s and 70s among the students in Kabul University. Shola-i-Javid was a Moist movement promoting a Chinese-style revolution in Afghanistan. Its followers opposed the Soviet influence in Afghanistan on ideological grounds .
                                               Refugees to face food shortage
    Gulbaz Khan, the Commissioner for Afghan refugees in Peshawar has said that the food allowance for Afghan refugees has decreased due to the diminishing amount of foreign assistance for the refugees.
    Each refugee now gets about 15 kilograms of wheat "each month and every few months a small amount of cooking oil.
    The Commissioner of Afghan refugees say that his organization which is responsible for looking after the refugees. does not receive any assistance from the World Food Organization which was the main source of food supply to the refugees.
    While the registered refugees get little assistance more than 70,000 refugees who entered Pakistan after the
 Jalalabad operation are not registered and receive nothing. They only receive limited assistance from private relief organizations.
     Teacher discuss school problems
    A training course for 360 teachers was opened on February 23 in Panjshir which will last till March 16. The participants of the course will discuss problems of education in their areas and ways to solve them. They will be also dis cuss new methods of teaching.
    The teachers on the course come from Parwan and Kapisa provinces and North of Kabul. A representative of the Supervisory Council in Peshawar said that the Council runs 132 schools in Parwan, Kapisa and North of Kabul in whic 14,224 students attend. He added that a similar course will soon be opened in North of the country to help the teachersadopt new methods of teaching.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 4, February 15,1990, page ©
                          Supervisory council ready to shoulder principle burden of war: com.Masood
   Talking to AFP (French problems.
News Agency) correspondent on the eve of the anniversary of the Soviet withdrawal. Commander Masood expressed his views on important issues concerning the Afghan resistance. Following is the full text of his interview:
   On The Government
Afghan Interim
    The present government of Mujahideen has had an obligation to provide a context for an elected and stronger government. If in the future government, the Mujahideen and commanders have an effective participation, then it will be successful, otherwise tliere will be no success.
    OnZahirShah
    The king left Afghanistan a long time ago. He has had no presence in the war. He has no knowledge of the current situation. He is a very old man. He is not familiar with the new generation. His age will not permit him to be actively involved. Therefore the king cannot play an active role in Afghan politics.
    On The Strength Of The Kabul Regime
    Contrary to the impression created, the regime has been defeated in its national reconciliation policy. The coup of General Tanay has shown clearly that Najib has failed in bringing unity amongst the Parcham and Khalq factions. The regime has not been able to launch offensive operations but fights a defensive war. It has not been able to capture any place. I think the strength of the regime lies in our disunity. If the Mujahideen solve their internal problems and follow a reasonable strategy, the regime certainly will fall.
    In order to achieve this goal the Supervisory Council is ready militarily. If an atmosphere of understanding is created among the Mujahideen, the Supervisory Council will shoulder a considerable portion of the burden of the war.
    On Hizb Islami
    We have always announced our readiness to solve the internal problems of the resistance through negotiations. We have repeatedly said that we are ready to talk to anybody to solve our
   On Relations Neighboring Countries
                                                      With
                                                        /
The people of Afghanistan have fought in order to establish an Islamic republic, hence today and tomorrow Islam will have a pivotal role in Afghanistan. Our relation with all our Muslim neighboring states and other countries which have no evil designs against Afghanistan and have helped Afghans during Jehad naturally will be good. The relation of the future Afghan government with the Soviets will depend on the rationality of the Russians themselves. If the Russians cease supporting the puppet regime, and stop further bloodshed and abandon their, colonial goals in our country, relations between the two countries will improve. Otherwise, the bitter memories of their invasion and their support for the hated Kabul regime will be remembered by our people for a long time.
    On The Struggle Central Asian Muslims
Of
    We want that all subjugated Soviet states achieve their freedom. Unity of the occupied Islamic states (in Central Asia) with Afghanistan depend on future conditions.
   On Ethnic Afghanistan
 Issue In
     We want the establishment of an Islamic government in which all the Afghan nationalities participate actively. In such a government there will not be a question of one nationality ruling over another.
  On The The PDPA
Future Role Of
    To prevent bloodshed amongst Afghans, the Mujahideen have declared an amnesty. Except for a limited (high-ranking) members of the PDPA, all others can join the nation.
    But we can not accept the PDPA as a political party and can not include them in the process* of our future political destiny even if the war continues.

                                        February 7,1990
                                           iriA \a
  • y
Area/Tem. in C°  H L    
. Kabul          3 -l ; 
ranin 17mm, snow 11cm   
North Salang    -5 -7 . 
rain 4mm, snow 203cm    
Jabulseraj       4 1    
       snow 15 cm       
Chekhcharan      6 -2   
Shebirghan       3 1    
         rain 4mm       
Mazar-i-Sharif   6 2\   
        rain 5mm.       
Kunduz           4 1    
Toorghondi      -1 -2   
 rain 5mm, snow 8cm     
Herat            3 -3   
Lashkargah      17 13   
Farah           14 7    
Zaranj          14 4    
Kandahar        16 10   
      rain 20mm *       
Jalalabad       11 9    
Shindand         7 1    
S, ,, ' ■               
                        
                        
                                            9{tCp ns publish
                                            ATgfHZtyzvs!
                                         tPlease send your donations to the following account number:
                                             Account 7{p. 735-37 9la6i6 ‘Bank.Ltd.
                                            Tehkal ‘Bala, (Peshawar tPakistan