AFGHAN NEWS
No. 20
4-12-1985
P- 65
                        yH^^^|Yp2^oF_PEACE
     During the Geneva summit talks the wives of the two leaders also met together and exchanged views.
     The wife of the Soviet leader in a meeting which took place in the. building of the International Red Cross talked about peace and the, need to preserve it.
     To other people who are living in peace and not facing the Soviet war machinary, these speeches about peace seems encouraging. They think that the Soviets have changed their way of thinking about other countries and people. This is why we are calling the attent-tion of the world to see the truth about the situation in Afghanistan, to compare the Soviet's words with their actions. There are about. 200,000 Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan and along border between the two countries.
     The war has continued for six long years. Four million people have become refugees , half a million people have been killed , wounded or are missing. The whole country has become a free fire zone for the Soviet soldiers and their aeroplanes. A nation is dying-and a culture is being ruined. All this is done at the orders of the Soviet leaders and carried out by their soldiers. Soviet leaders talk in such a way that one may think they are not: responsible for all that is being done to people of Afghanistan, their tanks are firing peace shells and their Jets and Helicopters are messengers of peace.
     Going to a department store, buying jewelry , talking to newsmen and wearing western cosmetics does not have any relation with peace. While madam Gorbachev was singing peace songs and some simple-minded people were clapping hands, their Jets were, destroying our villages, killing our women, children and old people.
     While she was talking about the prosperity and well-being of mankind their soldiers were busy in military operations against innocent Afghans,
     We know the double standards which the Soviet leaders and other Communists used and we expect the rest of the world should n*t to trust those whose actions do not follow their words.
     As long as the Soviets are occupying Afghanistan and killing Afghans, all the fine speeches of the Soviet leaders about: peace and pro-gams-ssceot® lies and an attempt, to deceive the world. We hope the world will not be deceived by Soviets words.
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 20
P-66
N_E_W_S
PANJSHIR VALLEY 21-11-85                        “
According to a set plan, Mujahideen s tartedJ.f iring heavy weapons against the enemy throughout the Panjshir,
In Pushghour nine outposts have been destroyed, 29 soldiers and 8 officers (ERA) were taken prisoners. Mujahideen captured 3° AX-47s and 2 PX heavy machineguns. The enemy headquarters in Pushghour was hit by 107nun rockets which caused many casualties among the enemy. One. Soviet advisor was among those who were killed.
In Zenai (a village 3km away from. Pushghour), Mujahideen destroyed a tank with all its personnel and captured 6 AX-47s. There are no reports from other areas of the Panjshir.
On the same day the Soviets, after a heavy aerial bombardment,landed troops in Dara. hide valley. The enemy is pouring more troops into the Panjshir by helicopters each day.
                           HERAT PROVINCE 23-10.-85 ■ " ~
The Soviets launched a massive attack against Herat city.„ The enemy operation which was conducted111an encirclement-suppression type of operation., continued for 15 days. Seventy four helicopters, 24 Jets and more than 1000 AFVs took part in the operation. They bombarded different parts of the city from both the air and ground and caused a lot of material damages..
The Mujahideen fought well and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. About, 50 different types, of tanks, APCs and trucks were destroyed and a great number of Soviet and their puppet troops were killed or wounded. Ten Mujahids were martyred and others were wounded.
It should be mentioned here that Herat is one of the major fronts in Afghanistan and is dominated by Mujahideen from Jaraiat and commanded by Mohammad Esmail,
                                    ike _ It'S it? I § _ 5? § 12>:S1S
During the 5th and 6th Panjshir offensives, civilians evacuated the main valley and went.to the- side valleys. They had only prepared enough foo.d for 40 days because the Mujahideen had told then that the offensive would only last that long. After three months when the people faced a severe food shortage and a long, cold winter, the local commander summoned the elders and consulted with them about tWaSft to do with the women, children and old- people who were facing shortages of food and lack of enough warm clothes.
The. people's answer was simple and clear. The elders said to the. commander "Go and fight". We will be patient and stay with you. Our lives are not more precious than yours. God willing the enemy will be defeated".
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 20
^-12-1985
 P-37__
 This give new energy to the Commander and the Mujahideen. The war went on Tor six months and the Soviets were forced to retreat ,,-,s-from the area.
 This episode shows the support of Afghan people for the Jehad and explains why the Mujahideen have survived so long against the Soviet invaders:
                 MBS LIM _ PRESECTJTX ON __ IN _ BULGAAXA
 According to reports recently published by Amnesty International the Communist government erf;-Bo-j-ga-ri<s. has_ pxiXBiird:._a • .
 policy of isolating Ethnic Muslim Turks from their brothers around the world and forcing them to renounce their faith and give up their-Islamic names in favour of Bulgarian ones.
 Last year the authorities imprisoned hundreds of-its muslira nationals in the North ahd South of the country and-killed about 10O people by firing at demonstrators who were peacefully protesting ' against the government’s action.             „ -
 Jamiat Islami Afghanistan as an Islamic organization and struggling for freedom , condemns such actions and the inhumane attitude of Godless regimes against nuslims any where in the world.
      . ‘.', *’    m.’ ^
 We support our Turkish brothers who are subjected to tyranny both
 morally and politically and hope that their struggle to preserve
                                -                       v.       : f.i
 their faith and freedom will succeed.
 We draw the world’s attention towards grievances of .o.ur mu slim brothers in Bulgaria and' hope that the world community will fulfill its responsibilities in this respect.
 AFGHAN NEWS            No. 21         17-12-1985           P-6g
                   GENEVA.^ TALKS _AND_ OUR_POSITION
 A iiev round *f proximity, talks . between Pakistan and the puppet .' regime will starts soon. It is necessary to clearify our position on the issue once again.
 We believe that the Geneva talks in .the present form can not achieve any acceptable objectives. The two sides, the Afghan resistance who representing the nation and the Soviets who have invaded Afghanistan are not present at the talks.
 The Soviets have sent the puppet regime' there to show their good-well, deceive world opinion,whinlris against the Soviet invasion and win recognition for the puppet regime .
 Pakistan which has been affected, by the influx of three million refugees, has numerous reasons to participate in the talks. But: the other side is still not ready to discuss the withdrawal of Soviet troops .
 The Mujahideen do not have any representation in the talks directly or indirectly. While we consider the present Geneva talks useless and unproductive, we think it is better for the Soviets to talk directly about the problems to the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen represent the Afghan nation and control moat of the land in Afghanistan* Xn the past the Soviets have talked directly with Mujahideen inside the Country and have even signed some local military agreements.
 We believe there is no military solution to tho problem of Afghanistan . The. final solution must be diplomatic and political. While we continue the armed struggle, we are still trying to find political means to solve the problem. The key to the solution is the withdrawal of Soviet forces, the guarantee of non-interference in Afghan affairs, the people's choice of the future form of the government and the restoration of a non-aligned and Islamic status for
 Afghanistan.               PANJSHIR_VALLEY
                              The enemy post in Bara wiged out
 The enemy attacked Bara valley from the air and ground . Dara has seen many battles in the past but this time the purpose of the attack was different . The enemy wanted to establish a new post with the help of some local Ehad agents who were living in Kabul.
 From 21 November till 2nd of Dec. as a result of severe clashes with the. enemy more than 200 enemy soldiers were killed, ten tanks destroyed and 2 AN-47s captured. Mujahideen isolated the newly established post from their main forces in Keraman where the enemy armoured units were. . On Dec. 2nd, the Mujahideen launched a decisive attack against the post which had more than 300 DRA soldiers . In a severe clash 50 soldiers were killed, two helicopters were shot..,
 AFGIiANr MEWS _______ No .^21_______
 down , one of which.was flown by a'Soviet pilot, and the rest of them escaped toward the Nooristan pass. They are being per sued 3%-; Mujahideen.
 During this period the enemy air forces bombed Bara continously
 _22-11 =85:-
 An enemy convoy which was relatively .large was attacked by Mujahy... ideen near Anayra (a Soviet base in the lower part of the Panjshir)* Twenty seven tanks and trucks were destroyed and one hundred soldiers were killed or wounded.
 25:11=§3
 A Soviet outpost in Ruklia was completely wiped out by Mujahideen of Chemal Warda. The outposts have usually up to 40 soldiers and officers in them.
 27-11^85 ' * •• '• ■> Mujahideen of Manjawoor ('BaSarak) attacked the enemy post of U'qab Khana, killed some soldiers and captured 6 AK-47s one mortar and one pair of binoculars.' -
 On the same day,' Mujahideen of Abdara attacked fair bnemy posts killing six soldiers including a Russian woman*
 '21:11:22
 A niobile unit commanded by Abdul Hakim attacked the Soviet base in Anawa and killed 10 soldiers.                               * ■... "' . .
 5-12-85:-
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts in Rukha, killed 13. soldiers and destroyed the post.
 Qn.„J;he same day, 13 soldiers killed 5 of their officers including the Commander of the outpost and the Political Commissar and joined
 Mujahideen of Paramdek ( a side valley of Basarak). They brought with them 13 AK-47s and one FX Macninegun*
 2-12-1985
 Mujahideen attacked and enemy convoy which was going from Baiiarak to the lower part of the Panj shir valley.                   • •
 Six tanks and 10 ’trucks were destroyed-..and one helicopter shot down. 30 boxes of AX-47 ammunition.were captured.
 ^-12-1905                  ■                              '
 Mujahideen attacked the 'Soviet base in Anawa" destroying two - trucks and. two buildings - used.; by enemy troops*
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 21
 _17-1_2-1985________  P-79
 HE?ORT_PROK_SALANG
 SirI2r§§
 Mujahideen .attacked.,.an -enemy convoy in- Salang, They set on f Ar.a 35-Keraz type trucks full. of -. ammunition,.destroyed S.APCs and one
 tank. 'Fifty.Soviet, soldiers . were .killed, . 10-AK-7k guns, and two Sheika
 —tt>Un*tufHi were captured. Tb*»* v«r* destroyed                 a# . :
 their weight. Soviet Helicopters operated, in the Salang valley -throughout the night,
                                                                                          ■ H
                     REPORT FROM PARWAN PROVINCE                         f-
                      ~
 &ujah±docn from Jmaiat attacked a Soviet post in GulbdJbAr kaJJLdSg "    *
 soma Soviet, soldiers * Tha .enemy rotaiiAied. by heaarily bombing the. area- for four days. Elavem civilians wore killed.in Hamid Khali,.
                          SUMMARY, EXECUTION7
 The. JSuppet.. r ogimo1 s radio reported On Deo, 11 th, .that 5 members of Jamiat.. Islami namely? 1 ** Qazi Abdul Wahid Z- Abdul..MchaimciS-O-Janon k- Kamniudin 5~. Abdul Raoof, had. been cucooutocU.. Tha - charges against -them, were the posseo-si.cn. of armn find explosives .and- r<erti-.cipation. in ant±ldi?a.t-a.. aetivitieso
 It should be., known that., .all the eoiKr.’rbiora. telcing plaoa,_na«<x.by t ho-brdnr of - • s a-c allod- .:.wn*nlut±nnary onuris - and. the arwus-ed par-sans do not have any means, to dafend themoalvon.
 In any trial.the* Sovie-tsi are the onos who decide about tha punishment . Events show that the onomy announces the execution of prisoners after some military operation, or sabotage, work is carried out in Kabul. Theso executions aro a type of reprisal against the Mujahideen . People executed usually do not have any direct connection with cocos they are. accused of being, involved.
 These types of executions are carried out. fro demoralise the. Muja-> hxdeen and. give tha impression that the, security forces of the enemy are sucronsful in thcdLr mission.                         -          '•
 We hope-all circles -con^arnod with human rights abuses, should, take, r
                                                                                                   'tk
 notice, of then© cases and try to take proper measures to expose the violation.of the: right's of the people.-of Afghanistan. The full ro-a-ponaiblities falls on .the shoulders, of .Soviets who have occupied Afghanistan with about. 200,000 troops, for, 6 years,
                         A ^TRAITOR _ CAPTURED
 Two weeks ago during da operation pomo soldiers were captured in the Panjshir . Among them was a traitor who had a hand in the. killing «f Ccmmonder Zabihuliah of Mazar, He is Abdul Jabar from Mazer and. had boen accompanied by four others when he planted the anti-tank mine#.
 He did net have any information. aWout the roason and hands behind these criminal act. He is facing trial by civil court in the Pah jfchir.
 Commander Zabihuliah of Mazar who wa? esdto of the moat capable, field commanders in Afghanistan was killed last november when his -Jeep hit
 a land mine planted 'by com** eiwmy agonts.
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 22
28-12-1 98,5
P-71
                    SIX YEARS_OF OCCUPATION
 The Red Army which was able to crush nationalist movements in Eastern Europe came to Afghanistan with the same type of expectations. After six years it is still bogged down in a war with no end in sight.
 Militarily, the Soviet Union is a super power equipped with the most sophisticated weapons. The Soviets have not hesitated to make use of any lethal weapons in Afghanistan if they have found it useful.
 They have been able to establish big air and ground bases and chains of security posts around the cities and along a few highways, but they have not solved the main problem of subjugating the Afghan people through the elimination of effective resistanceIn the year 1985 tho level of fighting was much higher and the Soviets had a . tough time which they are partially admitting,
 Soviet efforts to form a strong Communist govermnant, have failed so far. Ideologically the Communists are further behind than they were in 1978, when they took power. Factional ..fighting between Khalq and Parcham,.. to the lowest party level , has paralysed the puppet army and the Soviets have failed to bring them together. After six-years of efforts no major- section of Afghan society has accepted what they were offering. A few thousand militias and'Father- Land Front-members arachstbarogeneous elements which have joined the invaders because of threats, money or personal rivalries, not ideology. Soviet authori-ities are not happy about the performance of Red Army and are disappointed about the puppet army. After the Pushghoor victory in the Panjshir a Soviet advisor attacked the puppet regime's defence minister verbally and called him an "incompetent donkey". The minister's face became red, he looked at the ground and could not say anything.
 On the political ground the Soviets are making every effort to give the. puppet regime legal status. Some Jergas (traditional meeting of the elders) were convened and some local elections were announced.'
 All this was down to show that the situation io becoming normal and the puppet regime is gaining the support of the people.
 On the Geneva talks the Soviets try to make the puppet regime a party to speak for Afghanistan. Now the Soviets are insisting on direct talks with the puppet regime.
 If the resistance is not included in an agreement, no peace can he expected. Let us see what happens if the Mujahideen are not part of the, deal. The Soviets may agree on a timetable for the withdrawal of their forces in return for the recognition of the puppet regime, The Mujahideen who are well-armed and well-established and independent from outside influence, will continue to fight. If the Soviets are not participating in the war the Mujahideen would easily defeat the ..
AFGHAN^NE-WS
No, 22
_28-1_2-1_98j3
5:7 2
 puppet regime. The Soviets, as they usually do, will blame for-, _ iegn forces for interference and would intervene to stop the regime’s fall. This time they'Will come to defend a recognized legal regime. Therefore the exclusion of the resistance (Afghan people) from any political deal does not solve the problem, but makes it more complicated.
 The only key solution to the problem is the right of the people to determine their future without, foriegn interference. This is what every country likes to have. This is what'every school of thought preaches. Why then should Afghan be excluded from this natural rights. If they are not given this right the war of the people of Afghanistan for total freedom will continue, if necessary by Afghans alone,
                                       REPORT FROM PANJSHIR
 'izl’iz^.l                --------          ---
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy positions in Bara valley. Ten soldiers and one political Commiosar were captured with 14 AK-47s. and one rocket launsher..
 1_0-22-85
 Mujahideen attacked three enemy posts in Rahi Jang (5kra from Gulba-har) and destroyed three tanks, two tents and one small building,
 The Mujahideen ambushed an enemy armoured unit, in Rahi Jang,dsetr-oyed one tank and three trucks,
 12-12-85__
 Fighting is continuing around Keraman garrison in Bara valley. Twenty soldiers and two officers were captured with their weapons,
 14-12-85
 Mujahideen attacked the Soviet-DRA garrison in Keraman, about 100
 soldiers were killed and wounded, one tank and an ammunition’ dump
 were set on fire, 3 AK-74s and one AGS-17 (grenade launcher) were *
 captured. Three Mujahids were killed and six other were wounded.         *
                                                                                               %
 Fighting along the whole valley is going on in the form of heavy weapons fire and ambushes and raids against the enemy garrisons and outposts.
 13^12-85
 For the first time Mujahideen of Abdgra were able to cross a mine field (of siemic type) and attacked a Soviet post. They killed all the soldiers in the post and captured       one  AK-74, one Bschk and
 43 boxes of ammunition.
 16-12-85
              Mujahideen attacked a Soviet supply helicopter in one of Rukha out-

P-73
  d-£S?6ii_            No. 22   __________28—12-1985
  posts with ari RPG-7. The plane was hit and set on fire, six Soviet soldiers were killed. *
  16-12-85
  Soviets strenghtened their newly established garrisons in Dara by landing 200 more Soviet troops.
  In the face of intensification of the war all the party members of Par-wan province were flown into Baharak garrison (about 40km inside the-valley).
  14-12-85
  An enemy Jet was hit by Dschk fire in Hesarak side valley of Aukha and set on fire in the air. It crashed outside the Pangshir valley.
                          21        ii^§_ f ££ fir
for the first time Mujahideen of Panjshir passed over siesrnic mines field and attacked a Soviet post.
  Mine warfare in Afghanistan is becoming more and more common. At the begining of 1985 the Soviets began to use siesmic mines. These mines consist of a central device and six charges each 4 kgs. The central device activates one of the charges when some one approaches the area. The device can be adjusted to activate the charge when one person approaches or ignore one person and activate it when a group of people approach. Soviets use these mines to protect their posts and also plant them in Mujahideen controlled areas after an offensive. These mine fields are protecting posts and prevent demoralized enemy slldiers from desertion. The Soviets have abondaned the use of pressure mines in Panjshir beca-. use Mujahideen defused them first and re-planted them against the Soviets .
  Siesmic mines are new and are used by Soviet engineers. The puppet army does not know any thing about them.
  It is a good news our brave Mujahideen have been able to discover ways of defusing these mines. We will share the knowledge with other Mujahideen fronts to avoid casualties.
                           ^ERS_TO_BE HURRIED
  The .Soviet invasion has not only made million of Afghans homeless it has
  also-.'destroyed the resting places of millions of Afghans who have died
  in the past.
  Afghans respect graveyards and visit them on special occasion to say prayers for the souls of those who have passed. Now the Soviets are driving their.tanks on graveyards and in Panjshir have leveled a graveyard of about 500 years old to build a Helipad.
       NE¥3______Kc_._ 22_____________ 2G~j2-j93X...... i>-J£ „ _ __
It was -a'custom among Afghans. to recommend where they t©-he-buried. Now k million refugees are deprived of their right and the ' other Afghans can not expect to be buried where they want because of the wax situation.
A lot of old Afghn men and women are suffering because they know' their souls can not-rest in the places where they were born. Soviets have not only occupied our houses, they also have occupied our -graveyards.
%
7-