 AFGHAN NEWS' '              No, 7    '   1 4-4-1 985,           F-22 '
    — ...- — —i —                           .wwiiaw.a.m.riRaft.MM ■*»*•■■>«■>■•<■»•■«•■« ■»••■«••■•«■•■*■■■•
                                                                                «■ ' • ‘
                      .. ; THE -END _ 0F_A ^TRAI'TOR
 Ori 27th. of March Jurna Khan, the militia Commander for the puppet .’■.■> ... regime in Andarab was killed, Jurna was from Andarab , His brother
 Afbab Bahadur, , started to lead a group of Mujahideen against the...........
 Khalqi raglm^.in. 197?.«
 Arbab Bahadur was a brave man and was martyred in the same year.,
 Due to 'the' respect Afghans have for families they chose Juma Khan in his brother’s place. He proved to be a bad man, Khad began to influence him and he started to cooperate by delivering back a Soy- , , iet prisoner which the Mujahideen had captured. He also gave back two Khad agents who had escaped from prison in the Panjshir,..............
 While Mujahideen from the Panjshir were forced to get rid, of him, he went to North Salang and began to assist the Soviets,
 When the Soviets launched their seventh offensive against the Panj-shir, Juma led the invading forces and encouraged people and some Mujahideen to surrender. He then formed militia posts all over Andarab, After a few months the people realised that he was an agent of the Soviets and turned against him. Resistance took root and his militias started to join Mujahideen,
 Finally he= was killed On March 27th in Naw-Bahar village of Andarab, by a man whom he had appointed as the commander of Puli Hessar region of Andarab a few months ago.
 After Juma1s death, a big Soviet force went to Andarab to protect militia posts from Mujahideen attack and stop a possible mass-defection.
 This event is a great victory for Mujahideen and the people of Andarab because Juraa’s past terrorist actions had left fear in the mind of ordinary people and some mothers quietened their children by using his name.
 After Shiragha's death, Juma's death was a big loss for the invaders •
 Nqte % Andarab is a valley parallel to the Panjshir but in the North of the Hfndukush. It connects the Panjshir to the North -of the country, It is a district of Baghlan province, After a set back in the spring 1984, the resistance is gaining ground again and there is popular support for it.
 Soviets have a presence in the main valley in two places but the Mujahideen have control of the side valleys,
                           REPORT FROM ANDARAB
 1-4-1985                     '       '
 Commander Tawoos and six other Mujahideen were killed by a planted Khad agent. This agent , who was a militia of the puppet regime,....
 APGHAN^NEWS____________No._7                             P-23
 joined Mujahideen a few days-beforethe incduien'L.., he. was hired by the Khad to do this. .
 g5:3:?5
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Andarab raided a militia post in the Shah*4 shan sub-valley As a result ^ militias vera killed and 17 others were captured. Mujahideen captured one Dschk, one RPG-7, one light machin gun, 9 rifles and 6 KalashirLkoves with s ora a- wpiwrri tie ns, Mujahideen did. not suffer any casualties.
                     :^W_TT^^°F_A^:^-AI^KXaSlLE
 In the. big explosion near Salang tunnel (Afghan News No,6) soma trunks -vhioh were carrying a new type of Air-te-Air mis ails in Kabul, were, destroyed. The. Soviets are busy collecting even the smallest pieces of the exploded missiles from the area.
 Informed sources say that this type of missile has net Wen >*h» in Afghanistan before. No more details are given. ,
                              SALANG
 The.. Soviets launched, an offensive against Mujahideen, in Salang Qn 3rd of April.. It was a.retaliatory action against Mujahideen who exploded the Soviet convoy in Olang (Afghan News No.6).
 The Soviets withdrew On April 7th after losing 5.0 men.
 Aerial bombardments, artillary and rocket firing was very heavy. Mujahideen have captured an AGS-17s one AK-74 with a grenade, launcher, one PK heavy machine gun, 7 AK~7^s and one wireless set.
 The. report does not say any thing about casualties of Mujahideen and civilians.
                         BAGHLAN PROVINCE                        . -
 2JL-3-85
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Nahrin launched an attack on Nahrin garrison, as a result, of which 6 DRA soldier were           and 15 others .
 injured . Mujahideen sources add that they were able to set on fire an enemy ammunition Depot. Four Mujahids were injured during the action,
                            KABUL PROVINCE 29 = 3-85                   .............
 Mujahideen of Jamiat Islam! exploded a bomb in Char-Rahi Torabaz Khan of Kabul as a result of which 6 Soviets men and 11 Soviet w»men were killed.
 On the 23rd of March Soviets attacked a side, valley of Rukha. When they withdrew, they planted a new type of mine. One of these mines was defused. The other killed, two Mujahids.                r
AFGHAN NEWS.
No. 7'
14-4-1985
P-2k
 This mine is composed of three parts s                             . :
 1- a cylinderical shape with a layer which seems to be the device
 itself.                                                           :... 1 ~ ■
 2- A box full of cells which is located 3, to 4 motel’s away from the device.
 3- Six charges placed in circular form around the device* Each
 charge weighs, .alj.oj^t 5 Kgs. All the parts are hidden under the ground .    ‘
 Mujahideen on the spot think that it is a radio controlled mine.
 But. it is possible that it is detonated by vibration or sound.
 As far as we know, this type of powerful and sophisticated mine has not been- used- before by the Soviet invaders in Afghanistan.
                                       PAN J SHIR _ VALLEY
 29-3-85
 A Soviet helicopter with 8 Soviet occupants was shot, down by Dschk, of Mujahideen in Tawakh (15km inside the Panjshir valley).
                            JEGDALIK FRONT
 3-4-85 .... .....       •  ,                                      :  o
 Mujahideen set an ambush against the enemy convoy which was going from Jalal Abad. to.Kabul in Tangi Abrishumi . Fighting started at 1 8§00 a.m and continued until 2s00 p.m , six APCs were destroyed by land mines, one^ tank was destroyed by RPG-7 fire and another by 82mm RR. No figure, for enemy casualties has been given so far.
 One Mujahid was injured during the, action.                       ;
                            HERAT PROVINCE 24-3-85                          ”
 Mujahideen of Jqmiat in Sheendand distrct ambushed an enemy convoy,
 One APC and truck was destroyed, 12 enemy soldiers were killed and six others were captured.
                            NEEMROZ PROVINCE            ' ' "'
 24-3-85 ■■■■•                     ~
 The enemy launched an attack on Mujahideen positions in•Charborjak district. Mujahideen fought back and fighting continued from 3 a.m to 5 P.m . Two of the enemy APCs were destroyed by RPG fire. Twenty .•<• seven soldiers and four officers of DRA forces were killed. As the result of artillery bombardments of the surrounding villages , a great number of civilians were killed or wounded. Mujahideen captured,s*me ammunition.
 28-3-85 -A Soviet-DRA forces whieh was composed of 28 APCs which was passing Landi Wabar road of Charborjak district, was attacked by Mujahideen of Jamiat. One APC was destroyed by RPG fire and 12 enemy soldiers were killed.
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 7
14-4-1985
P-25
Mujahideen captured two rifles with, some’ ammunition; Two Miijahids were injured during the action.
                            FARAH PROVINCE_
Soviet-BRA forces launched an attack on the position of Mujahideen in Jawhin district « of Farah province On 24th of March, The enemy •... force was composed of about 250 AFVs . On the same day the enemy forces withdrew and the next day Soviet Jets heavily bombed the, area. As, the result of this fighting 16 AFVs were destroyed by RPG- fire, or land mines. Two Soviet helicopters airlifted the dead bodies and wounded soldiers from the area. Mujahideen captured two AK-47s. Borne Mujahideen were injured . Until mow (27 of March) the war is continuing .

AFGHAN NEWS
P- 26
 No. 8          30-^-1985
                           ^0RX_ FR0M_
 13-^1985
 Mujahideen from Jamiat planted a mine in an ammunition Depot of Rishkhoor Division (S.W of Kabul). As the result of the explosion 20 DRA soldiers were killed and all the ammunition burnt.
 13^-85
 Mujahideen shelled the president’s palace (Urg) with mortars* Later it was known that as a result of this shelling, one political Commissreir, two officers and one soldier Were killed and 7 1 other soldiers were wounded.
 21-4-85
SALANG
 Soviets attacked Mujahideen controlled areas in Liwan of Salang. Fighting continued for 24 hours. In eight different ambushes 120 Soviet soldiers were killed and 20 others were wounded. Twelve Mujahideen were killed in addition to four civilians, Soviets are also making use of wave, mines (Afghan News 6 and 7) in Salang.
17.4.85
                  PANJSHIR VALLEY
 Soviet-DRA forces launched an attack against Mujahideen positions in Parandah valley (a side valley of Bazarak), Fighting continued for 3 days. In three different ambushes the Soviets lost about 80 men. On the 20th April, Amruddin the, newly appointed commander of Parandah was killed along with another Mujahid by an enemy antipersonnel mine.
 20-4-85
 As the result of Mujahideen rocket (RPG) fire near Abdara bridge, (15km inside Panjshir valley), 10 Soviet soldiers were killed.
 19;4-85
 One Helicopter was shot down by Mujahideen of Hessarak (a side valley of Rukha). Mujahideen also destroyed the enemy's three positions and a radar system in Rukha.
 21-1r§5
 Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in Anawa (12km inside the main valley). Seven enemy soldiers were killed.
 23-4-85
 An enemy tank was destroyed by a land mine in Bazarak,
 In the same day, an enemy logistic convoy which was composed of 200 tanks and trucks tried to reach Pushghour after three months. Mujahideen ambushed the convoy, destroyed 20 tanks and trucks and killed 50 soldiers. The, convoy could not reach its destination and was forced to retreat. One ZPU (l4.6mm AA gun) of the Mujahideen was hit by an artillary shell and destroyed. One Mujahid was also killed.
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 8
30-4-1985
P- 27-
                          SAMANGAN PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Jamiat in Khuim District set the enemy pipeline' on fire (two pipe-lines are extended from the Soviet border to Bagram Airbase. The pipe-lines run by the side of Salang highway and are above-the;ground,
 12- 3-85
 Mujahideen set on fire the enemy's pipe-line in Tangi of Tachqur-ghan. The pipeline continued burning for 24 hours.
 13- 3:85
 Mujahideen cut the enemy pipe-line in the. Sayyad area of Khuim' District which caused considerable waste for the efaemy. Mujahideen also attacked the enem's positions in Jshan Nema garden with RRs, RPGs and mortars. Eight enemy soldiers were killed and three others injured.
 12:2:85
 Mujahideen of Jamiat, Hezb, Harakat Islami and Jabhai Nejat inaa joint action, attacked the enemy positions in the city of Khuim.
 They made use. of heavy weapons in this operation. The attack included 14 posts and Jehan Nema garden (a Soviet post). Nineteen Soviet DRA soldiers were killed and some others injured.
 12:2:85
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked the District headquarters of Khuim with heavy weapons. Part of the building was damaged and two communists were killed.
15_2|_85
                    KUNAR PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Daraseen of Kunar attacked enemy positions around Barikot as a result of which 6 DRA soldiers were killed. Later on the same day, 6 Jets and 9 Helicopters attacked Mujahideen positions,
 3 Mujahids were killed and some others injured. The war is still continuing *   —
                           BAMYAN PROVINCE
 A report from Mujahideen reaching Peshawar, says that in the middle of Febrvary, Mujahideen from different groups joined together and raided the DRA Tabaq Sari post of Bamyan. They besieged the post for three days and finally captured it.
 Mujahideen captured 4-7 AK-47 rifles, two mortars and two Dschk guns. Thirteen militias and soldiers were killed , 17 others were captured, the rest were able to escape. Three Mujahids were injured during the operation.
 After three days the enemy retaliated with air strikes against liberated areas especially Ghandak and Shaibar, as a result 35 men, women and children were killed and 15 others were injured. 50 houses were destroyed.                                        1
 AFGHAN MEWS,- .____ No._8____________   30-4-1985             P-28__
 The village of Dehbala of Ghandak was-completely destroyed. Aerial strikes are still continuing against different areas of Banyan province. .                 ,,           .<  .      ■ :;
 Notes Ghundak and Shibar are.located in the main road connecting Kabul to the north. This road starts from liatak ^near Charikar), passes through Ghoorband valley apd after passing Shibar pass enters a valley called Tangi Shekari. This road joins the main Saiang Highway in Dooshi (hear Kailagai, the main Soviet base in the North of Afghanistan) . This road, which is not paved ,also connects Banyan to Ka-
                                                              : ■   ■ f*
 bul. The valleys along this road are some of the most beautiful ones
 in ..Afghanistam. Ashpushta coal mine"'is also located along this: road.
 There is a Soviet presence in-the city of Banyan and DRA forces are
 .at one place ip, Chardehi of Ghoorband, the rest of the area is under
 Mujahideen control. •                        ;• :
                            FARYAB PROVINCE
 24-1-85                                                            . ‘
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Chakman village of Andkhoy district.‘Mujahideen resisted against the invading forces and fighting continued from 7 am until 4 pm. On the same day, one tank was destroyed by ,SPG fire. Eleven enemy soldiers were killed and some others wounded. Two '•Mujahids were' martyred'in the incident.
 7-3=85          '
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Arab Shah and Khan Charbagh villages of Andkhoy District. The enemy used a large number of tanks and APCs and five helicopters1 provided the aerial cover. The'purpose of the enemy was to Surround ' the villages. Mujahideen fought until evening and by destroying three tanks they were able to break the seige., xhe enemy retreated to Andkhoy town. Two AK-47s were captured by Mujahideen. Some Mujahids.received light injuries in the incident.,
 11-2-85
 Mujahideen attacked the enemy post,ip Firmqool sub-district of And-khoy at 8 pm. In two hours of fighting, Mujahideen captured the post and liberated the sub-district of Firmqool. Twenty five soldiers and militias along with some of their officers were killed and 30 others including two lieutnants of DRA surrendered to Mujahideen. Mujahideen captured 1© AK-.47S, 3 light machine-guns and 57 different types of rifles along.with some ammunition and food stuff. Mujahideen casualties have not been reported.
 13-2-85
 Two enemy agents were killed by Mujahideen from Jaraiat at 9 am in Andkhoy city. One AK-47 and one T.T pistol was captured from them.
                   BIG SOVIET OPERATION IN HERAT .13-3-85,.                                       —
...Commander Esmaeil Khan of Herat has .sent a report in which he mentioned a big Soviet offensive against Mujahideen positions in the District of Pushtoon Zarghoon, Chesht and Oby.
 AFGHAN NEWS           No. 8             30-4-1985        P-29
 The enemy made use of 25 MI-24 Helicopters, 40 MIG-21s, MIG-23s and SUs Jets and more than 600 AFVs.
 The Mujahideen resisted well, they inflicted heavy losses on the enei^y.and foiled their plans. Two Helicopters and one MIG-21 Jet was Shot down . A large number of Soviet AFVs were destroyed. The number of enemy casualtys has not yet been reported;
 The enemy retaliated with indiscriminate aerial strikes against villages in the liberated areas which caused many casualties and material losses for the people . No casualty figures have been given.
 Commander Ismaeil Khan gave orders for Mujahideen of Ghouryan, Kohsan and Zinda Jan districts to attack militia posts which were'recently established by a traitor called MoaliM'Karim. Mujahideen captured the posts by killing a group of militia and capturing some others,, All the weapons and ammunitions of these militias fell into the hands of the Mujahideen,
 Among those who were killed was the brother of Karim, the head of militia mentioned above. Two Mujahids were martyred and three other injured during the operation.
                      JAMIAT_APP01NTED_ A._NEW_LEADER_FOR_BAJLKH PROVINCE'
    Recently Jamiat Islami leadership decided to appoint Mawlavi Mohammad Alam as the new leader of Balkh. province. After Zabihullah's sad demise, Jamiat had appointed Mawlavi Abdullah as the temporary Amir of Mujahideen of Jamiat in Balkh province. Below is a short biography of Mawlavi Alam,. the new Amir of Balkh provinces
    Mawlavi M.Alam s/o Haji Haiderbay, was born in Resiang village of Nahri Shahi district, in 1947. His father was a farmer, Mawlavi Alam went to the local mosque for his primary studies. Then he entered Asa-dia Madrassa (a religious school run by the government). After graduation from this school, he gained admmission to the faculty of Islamic Law of Kabul University. He graduated from the faculty in 1976. From 1972 to 1976 when he was a student in Kabul, he was affected by the ideas of the Islamic movement and started activities. Ke was closely associated with muslirn student leaders like Niazi and A.Q.Qadir Taw-ana. After graduation he. went for 6 months military service and them started to work as deputy to the public prosecuter, first in Mazar city and after in Nahri Shahi district.
    After the Communist coup in 1978 he lel't this job and joined Mujahideen who were led by the late Zabihullah, Since then, he has been closely associated with Zabihullah and has worked as the head of this military committee. Mawlavi Alam is a gentleman with many good qualities .Besides being a well-educated man he is a good fighter.
.AFGHAN NEWS .......... No. 8              30-^-1985       P-30
  His patience in the face of hardship, some thing common in the Afghanistan situation, is .admirable. This has given him a unique expedience which is Utticii needed in running the job he has been given*
  ---After Zabihullah's death, Jamiat took careful steps to appoint
  some body who will be able to work with Mujahideen* to follow the good work which Zabihullah had laid the foundations of, keep the unity of Mujahideen and face new challenges with a high sprit ,wise dom and determination*             *'
     Finally it was decided that since the majority of the Mujahideen's reaction towards his leadership was positive and he has some good qualities which are needed for a leader to be successful, he was appointed as the new Amir of Jamiat? Islami in Balkli province.
     He has takeh charge of the1 Mujahideen at a very sensitive time; Zabihullah, a hero, has gone from his people, complete unity does not exist among all the Mujahideen parties. Soviets have many ambitious military and political plans for this area and naturally on top of it all there is great expectation from the new leader*
     While we have good wishes for the new commander of Balkh time will tell how successful he will be in his noble mission.