    A Biwo©Kiy> Bull®tin Of Jarai'at Islam! Af ii tl«nd»t«r> Post Box No. 264, Peshawar — Pak^tfn. Vol.H, No. 13                   „  X  / 7  /  LS>S6.
    wrnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm iw mmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmrnmmm
       There has boon a 55 ni.l.ittt!«»*« p»,ngu*m«* on T.V New# covering a demonstration by people demanding the release of a few monkiee from a zoo. This typo of event draws moie nlleiltlon than the news of the massacre of the people of Afghanistan at the hands of Soviets, For seven years a bloody war has been going onj half a million people have died and more than four million people have become refugees and 75% of a beautiful country has been destroyed, A super power army of about 200,000 is engaged in&W^r against a nation which is fighting for its survival , but very little is heard of it*
       Major news agencies and T.V companies do not have reporters to cover the war. On the other hand the election in Austria is headline news for months and even small comments by IsrnilA leaders and individuals are projected every day. Can we call such media coverage independent and fair as they claim to be. Surely something is effecting the flow ofthe news and preventing its publicity. Difficult terrain and circumstances and Soviet threats may be some factors, but we are afraid that the name of Jehad and Islam may have been the cause of such indifference and unfair reporting.
       While we are proud of our religion and our struggle for freedom, toe do not see why it should prevent the news from being covered by the mass media. Under these circumstances we can not accept the claims of the Western media that they are reporting the facts and paying attention according to the importance of the issues. The future of a nation is much more important than the future of a few monkies but the media thinks the other way round.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                i
         .....Mali.
k^klXSk
   ......fH.U. U
 P-2
                                    NO INTENTION OP TROOP WITHDRAWAL
                          MMIMnMHtNiHiwuHrkM M M W>* Mt M*
      The Soviet leaders have tried to unn the proximity talks in Geneva to gain time for a military victory. They are not sincere when they say that they intend to leave, Um woven lit round of talks which despite a lot of optimism, failed to go any where because the Soviets wanted a withdrawal time of several years. They know that this demand is not'acceptable to the other side and by asking for such a long time, they want to .prolong the talks which have been going on since 1902.                          1
     If the Soviets were sincere about the withdrawal they may not need more than a few weeks to withdraw* But they are afraid of a quick withdrawal because they know that their puppets can not survive without 1*he presence of Soviet troops.
     In order to reach a true settlement the Soviets must forget about having a puppet regime in Afghanistan. Either they should stay and fight to preserve a puppet regime or submit to the will of the people for their choice of government and the withdrawal of their forces. As long as they have not decided to accept the right of the people for self-deterrainatior. they have to stay .and fight. From all the evidence it seems that at the momeibent they do not have the intention to withdraw, only to talk about withdrawal.
                         CRlMfH/iia try CRIMINALS
     The first alleged Nani war criminal to be deported from United States to the Soviet Union nil I go on LriAl next month. The war criminals of today try the war criminal,*! of the past,
     Much is said and wr1I I on about the crimes which Nazis have committeda The Hunt and West are helping each other- to punish those who were their common enemy. We agree on punishing those who have caused the death of millions of innocent people.
     W® believe ' in the application of justice for all. What the Soviets arc doing today in Afghanistan is similar to what the Nazis were doing in the past. So for the Soviets have killed half a million people^(out of a pre-war population of Id million), have driven out more than four mill.Iona ami the war i n s t i l l, mill, liming* What la the difference between the two? ,
     I f tho West in helping tlio Soviet n to try war criminals of the past why are they not demanding thin •»I war criminals who are responsible for the death of half a million Afghans. Why are tho Soviet leaders recieved as state guests with red carpet ceremonies?. It is shameful that the criminals of today serve as a jury for tho criminals of the past. Crime is crime, committed by Nazis oj Soviets, Justice becomes the law of the world only if it is applied to all. llLpocracy and double standards can not solve the problems of injustice. Soviets are as criminal as Nazis and must be tried in the same court.
mall
 AFGHAN NEWS
■HBiui.9.,
J£^1286.
JS=2.
 16.5.1986
                                   mws toqm. mjmmss
                                      KUNDUZ PROVINCE ' -
   According to a letter sent by Commander Masood , Mujahideen of four , parties (Jamiat Islam, Harakat, Itehad and Hezb Island (Khalis) in a successful coordinated operation have been able to-capture9 enemy security posts in Khanabad, Shahran and Kunduz city.
The letter reports also that Mujahideen attacked Kunduz Airbase and some other Russian and DRA bases in the area. During these operations 8 Mujahlds were martyred, No enemy loss has been reported.
the letter adds that the following day many civilians were either kflled or Injured by heavy enemy bombardments usimg long-range artillary.
    23*5.86
    The^ame letter Says that Mujahideen jointly attacked AndaTab, a strategic district on the north of Panjshir. Four armoured carriers were destroyed, 40 pieces of light weapons seised, 20 enemy soldiers captured ^ and 70 killed, .                                     ,       '
    From Mujahideen side 11 wets msttyied and some wounded.
    2.7.86
    WMNIWMM
    The letter adds that the Nshfiil government Division has been under Muj-. ahideen attack for two days ill Which many snemy soldiers were either
    killed or wounded, 14 soldiers along with their weapons were captured
                                                        > •' ■ |
    and a tank destroyed.
   ' 12.7.86                      .
    In order to protect their convoy proceeding from Khanabad to Sshkamish, w the Russians attacked the areas betweenlthe mentioned places with ground ' and air. forces.              '                          •
 . , The letter says that Mujahidoen, despite heavy bombardments, were able to stop the convoy. In the operation, .five Mujahids were martyred and many injured.                                                       ‘    •'
    The letter also reports that for one month the Russians have heavily - bombarded Andarab, Nahrin, Khoost, Eshkamish, Panjshir and Salang. The bombardment is unprecedented. It starts from 4jam and lasts until 9jpxn, Jets bombard during the night in the light of flares. More than 50 civilians were martyred and at least a hundred wounded. The bombardment is still continuing,                 >.
    30.5.86
    According to the letter, CJari Oulabuddin a high-ranking militia officer along with his four assistants have been killed by Mujahideen in Anda-arab. /                                      .
       -
AFGHAN NEWS
NO. 13
1-7-1986
VOL. II
J£=!
19,6.06

A report from Jegdalik says that Mujahideen of Jamiat ambushed a Ruus'ttv ian convoy proceeding to Jegdalik at Tangai Abrishurai early in the morning. Mujahideen were able to stop the convoy at 6 O’clock.
About 25 Russian and DRA soldiers were either killed or injured and 4 tanks and APCs were destroyed. Two Mujahids were martyred and two injured, the report says.
15.6,06
HERAT PROVINCE
 According to a telephone call received from Jamiat Office in Mashhad of Iran, in a series of operations conducted under Commander Bsmail on the Russian-DRA posts, especially the ’security belt* around the.city, Mujahideen were able to wipe out around 30 posts in the Areas of Darb Kandahar and Darb Malik in addition to a security regiment in the city
 of Herat.                 .
 In this operation, Mujahideen killed and wounded about 200 enemy soldiers and captured 40 nthern. From the Mujahideen side, 5 were killed in
 the operation.’
 14._6_.06
 In a large-scale offensive on Mujahideen bases--in Kakari and Darab , launched by joint Russian-DRA forces and supported from the air and the ground? the enemy faced Mujahideen resistance four days. Twenty soldiers were captured and 16 military vehicles, and armoured carriers were destroyed. Seventeen Mujahids were wounded and 8 martyred in the operation.
 s s 86
 According to a report received from Logar province, the enemy had deployed a large detachment ©f their troops in Kamal Khail villages aiming at the destruction of Mujahideen bases in the area.
 After learning this the Mujahideen attacked the troops and killed around 35 enemy soldiers in 9 hours of continous fighting and seized about lO pieces of AK-47s along with a T.T pistol. •
 Six Mujahids including three women and children were killed during enemy's retaliatory bombardment and shelling of BM-13 artillary which pounded the civilian targets for three days resulting in the destruction . of two villages,
                       PROPAGANDA NEEDS CORRECTION
   Greece is a democratic country and the people there enjoy freedom, which they appreciate and value. In the past Greece has been voting for the U.N resolutions asking for the withdrawal of Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
   But the recent comments of the Prime Minister of Greece show that he is :   against destabilization of regions like Libya, Nicaragua and Afg-
 hanistan.
AFGHAN NEWS_______VOL. II______NO. 13_____________1-7-1986      P-5
  1 His honourable the Prime Minister is confusing separate issues. The situation in Afghanistan is completely different. In Afghanistan the regime (which was a Communist one) was deposed by the Soviet invasion and a puppet regime was imposed by them in Kabul. Soviet arguments that they were invited to Afghanistan are rejected by U.N resolutions which Greece has voted for.
    His honourable the Prime Minister should not be misled by the Soviet propaganda. Equally one should not be misled by the democratic name of the puppets. 75% of Afghanistan is destroyed, half a million people have been filled and more than four million others have become refugees. All this would not have happened if the regime y/as popular or the Soviets were not there.
    His honourable the Prime Minister should not provide justification for the existence of a quisling regime which has come to power by use of foreign forces and will survive only as long as they stay.
    We hope this statement is a slip of tongue, not a policy, because we can not beleive that his Excellency the Prime Minister of Greece would support a regime which was established by foreign forces and does not have any support internally or externally. In Afghanistan the case is clear. The war there is a true liberation war against the Soviets, The rule of the puppets is no more than the role of traitors and traitors do not deserve any sympathy.                                 *•
    On the other hand we are aware of the feelings of the Prime Minister about U.S military action in Libya to help the contras. But the war in Afghanistan is not a U.S-sponsored war. It started with a national decision and will continue until we decide it sbojald end. We are part of the muslim wprld, and non-aligned and third world countries. It is not necessary that a war against a super power is controlled by the other. May be in the past some liberation movements committed that mistake. We are independent and the whole idea of the war is to win our full independence.                                                          «
    Even in these difficult moments when we are facing a super power enemy with empty hands we have raised our voices against injustice committed anywhere by anybody. Our position towards the Palestine cause is a good example. We reject the injustices against the people of Palestine. We do this when the P.L.O. leadership is a close friend of our enemy, the Soviet Union and opposes Mujahideen.
    We assure his Excellency the Prime Minister and the rest of the world that the war in Afghanistan is the war of a nation who want to live free, free from outside influence. It is a noble aim and Afghans deserve every sort of help and encouragement in their difficult but noble mission.
::r
 AFGHAN* *..™
      A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMFAT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                  Post Office Boi No. 264, Peshawar- Pakistan.
                    Vol. II, No. 14 . 15 / 7 / 19*6.
                      A BIG POLITICAL STEP
                                                                    •
    The official visit of the delegation representing the Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan from U.S.A., France and Saudi Arabia was a great political step towards the recognition of -the Alliance and a major political initiative.
    The war in Afghanistan has both military and political dimensions. The two develop together, lack of attention towards one or the other would have disastrous consequences for the outcome of the struggle. From the military point of view the Mujahideen have made a lot of progress. They are now better organized, better coordinated and have improved their knowledge about ehemy tactics and weapons.
    They control more than *0% of the land and a major portion of the population. The world has started to take the Mujahideen seriously in the military field and even the Soviets have called the war of Afghanistan a "bleeding wound”. Soviets on different occasion have dealt with the Mujahideen in exchange of prisoners.
    On the political front more is needed to be done. The Soviets have been condemned by a majority in the U.N. General Assembly. They have been condemned in several conferences convened by the O.I.C. and non-aligned countries. This is a positive sign for the resistance.
    Despite this, the puppet regime is still a member of the United Nations and non-aligned movement. It has embassies in a lot of non-Communist countries and these countries have a diplomatic presence in Kabul. The puppet regime has trade relationships with a lot of countries.
    The Resistance, on the other hand, is not recognized by any country as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan and no country deals with it directly.
     After 7 years of war, after loosing 500.000 martyrs (U.N. Human Rights Commission report) and 5 million refugees, we are still not a part of the political process which deals with the problem of Afghanistan. This is a sad thing and it must be corrected. We have to be recognized as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan. The Resistance must get the seat of Afghanistan in the O.I.C., U.N. and non-aligned countries movement. We must
d a
   AEfiKMLMTS__________MOLAIL, 1UJL3M.
PAGE2,
     To do all this, the Resistance has to form a single political organization to be used as a candidate. The Islamic Alliance of Mujahideen of Afghanistan is such an organization. Now we have a ' single spokesman (taking office for three months) and he can represent all Afghanistan in any political process. The Alliance is the means not the end. The purpose of having an Alliance is to involve the Resistance in political process.
     In the past each spokesman has led a delegation to U.N. General Assembly. 0.1.C meetings and other occasions.
     The present official visit of the Alliance delegation headed by Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, the current spokesman of the Alliance, is one such a step but a very important one. We say important because of the following reasons:
     1- The proximity talks in Geneva have reached a so-called critical point without the participation, consultation and even the full knowledge of the Resistance.
     2- The Soviets have launched a political and propaganda offensive parallel to their ever-escalating military offensives. They have tried by different means to deceive world opinion and gain recognition for the puppet regime.
     Human suffering has reached new dimensions. Famine and massacre are threatening millions of Afghans. Conspiracy against refugees in neighbouring countries has reached new peaks and Pakistan air and ground space is being violated daily.
     Because of all of these the time had come to take political steps and demand our natural rights.
     The Mujahideen delegation was received officially in the countries it visited. Its delegates were treated as heads of state. The delegation explained the situation in the war and demanded the recognition of the Resistance as the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan.
     They criticised the double policy of verbal support for the Resistance while keeping diplomatic and trade relationships with the puppet regime. The delegation clarified its position on the Geneva talks and warned against deals made behind the backs of the Mujahideen.
     Making use of the occasion, the public in these countries were told about the problems and demands of the people of Afghanistan and the atrocities of the Soviets against the people of Afghanistan.
     During the trip big meetings took place with Afghans living in these countries and they were told about the military and political situation in Afghanistan. The Islamic communities and some muslim leaders were also met.
    AFGHAN MEWS gfikJI____WO. H     5-71W
PAGE 3
     Generally speaking the visit was a useful political step. The only draw-back to this visit was the open opposition of two leaders of the Resistance. Although these two were the minorities they could not keep quite. While we know what they are saying, we can not accept their reasoning. A delegation headed by Prof. B. Rabbani will not do anything to harm the Resistance. The delegation was fully aware of the delicacy of the situation and on several occasions announced that it had not come to make Afghanistan an East -West issue. The delegates openly said to American leaders that Afghanistan is an Islamic country and belongs to the muslim world. The Resistance must behave in a reasonable way. We have to take our cause every where and demand our natural right from everybody. The Resistance on different occasions has said that it demands from the Soviets unconditional withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan is ready to talk to them. If the Resistance can sit with the Soviets there is no reason not to sit with others who have not been responsible for the present situation in Afghanistan.
     On top of ail this there is no Islamic law which prohibits such contacts. As an Islamic movement the Afghan Resistance must follow the precepts of Islam not of individuals.
                                    SOLIDARITY WITH AFGHANISTAN
     The underground leadership of the solidarity movement in Poland declared
     the first of May the day of "Solidarity with Afghanistan"
     This is a friendly gesture towards the cause of the people of Afghanistan and ail Afghans congratulate the Solidarity movement on this occasion. We support the struggle of the Polish people for democracy and freeedom from foreign influence.
                          LEADER S VISIT TO U.S.A. CRITICISED BY THE PUPPET REGIME
     On June 18, the puppet regime criticised the Alliance Delegation s visit to the U.S. The puppets called this visit an interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and threat to the so-called "political settlement" of the Afghanistan issue.
                THE JAM I AT DELEGATIONS TRIP TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
     A delegation from Jamiat, headed by Dr. Abdul Hay, the Chairman of the Education Committee of Jamiat Isiami visited Iran in the middle of May.
     The delegation took part in the Ai-Quds conference which was convened in Qum. The leader of the delegation told the conference about the situation in Afghanistan and about Islamic nature of Jehad movement in Afghanistan.
   AEfiBAOCTS__YDL.II NQ. 14_15-7-1986
PAGE 4
    Dr. Abdul Hay also met his Excellency the Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic and discussed matters of mutual interest. The delegation visited Afghans living in Iran and heard their problems and briefed them about the situation.
    The delegation paid a visit to the border areas between Iran and Afghanistan and met with elders, Ulema and Mujahideen from the Western parts of Afghanistan.
    The delegation reviewed the religious and secular schools established by jamiat in Khurasan province in Iran and advised on the improvement of educational activities.
    It should be mentioned that more than one and half million Afghan refugees are living in Iran.
                       NEWS FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS NORTH EAST OF AFGHANISTAN
    On June 6, the first day of Eid (celebration of the end of Ramazan) the enemy started aerial bombing on Khost-O-Fering (a District of Baghlan province) and Eshkamish (a District of Takhar province). Bombing started from 3 a,m. and continued until 9 p.m. In the first days of the attack the targets were mosques, Bazars, villages and Eid' celebration grounds. Later the bases of Mujahideen and heavy weapon emplacements were hit.
    Later enemy artillary also took part in the bombardment. On June 16th, the enemy ground forces started an offensive against Eshkamish.
    On June 18th, Soviet heliborne troop landed in Khailab valley (a deep valley between Eshkamish and Khost-O-Fering). The enemy forces faced severe resistance from local Mujahideen and Central Forces units. Four transport helicopters were shot down and 30 enemy Commandos were killed. The body of one of the enemy Commanders fell into the hands of Mujahideen from whom maps and other valuable documents were recovered.
    After four days, according to reliable sources in the Mujahideen the enemy had lost seven helicopters and three Jets and casualties (kilted and wounded) have reached 150.
    Casualties among ordinary people, specially during the first days when villages and mosques were hit were around 250 (killed and wounded). So far the Mujahideen have lost 20 men and others have been wounded. The fighting is still going on when this report was written (24 May).
PAGES
     AEGEAN NEWS_________EQL.U NQ. 14_______13,7-1986
                                                                      REPORT FROM LOGAR PROVINCE
     15/6/1986. Mujahideen of Jamiat in Baraki Rajan District and Mujahideen from other parties attacked the enemy garrison in Puli-Alam (provincial capital). Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets, recoiless rifles, and mortars to pound enemy positions heavily. Thirty eight puppet troops were killed, 11 others were wounded. Two enemy heavy machine guns and several AFVs and trucks were destroyed. Because of enemy artillary fire several houses in the area were also destroyed.
                                   HERAT PROVINCE
     According to the reports reaching here Mujahideen have been very active, against DRA forces in the last few weeks. The purpose of these attacks has been to destroy security posts established by the enemy around the city.
     16/6/86. Mujahideen in a coordinated surprise action attacked all around the city; several areas of the pity were cleansed of the enemy's presence,
     As a result of these operations around 200 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded and 40 puppet soldiers were captured.
     14/6/86. The Soviets launched an offensive in the border area of Gulran-Kuhsan. They faced severe resistance by Mujahideenheaded by Haji khan Balooch. Fighting continued for four days, Siiteen enemy tanks and trucks were destroyed. Twenty puppet soldiers joined the Mujahideen. Seventeen Mujahids were injured and 8 others were martyred.
     19/6/86. A Soviet-puppet convoy which was composed of 800 tanks and trucks wanted to enter Herat city. Eight tanks were destroyed and 40 puppet soldiers and officers were captured. Mujahideen captured the following items:
          1-  150   Ak-47
          2-  1 Dschk
          3-  20 Machine guns
          4-  5 radio sets
          5-  200,000 rounds of ammunition
     Fifty enemy soldiers were killed . The Mujahideen lost 7 men, 60 people including civilians were wounded. Fighting continues in all parts of Herat,
AFMM.NEWS
maijgLidLJL5z^

      Stats me at of the Delegation of the Afghan Alliance presented by Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbent current spokesman on Monday, June 16, 1986, at the National Press Club Washington , B.C.
                                        IN THE NAME OF ALLAH
      Today, I Burhanuddin Rsbbani, and my distinguished members of the Alliance, Pir Sayed Ahmed Gailani, Prof. Sebgatullah Mojadedi # and Moulavi Nabi Mohamedi have come to the United States on our first official visit as a delegation to your nation’s capital.
      We have come to meet with leaders of this nation and to present' our cause before the court of world opinion .
      This morning we met with President Reagan in the Oval Office where he piedged his support.
      As you know, the Soviet Union invaded our country on December 22, 1979 while the West was celebrating Christmas, with more than 83,000 troops. Immediately they seized the presidential palace, killed then president Hafizullah Amin and installed Babrak Karmal, a puppet they trained.
      What followed was the almost systematic attempt to destroy our nation. More than 79% of the villages and towns have been destroyed by Soviet air attacks. The land has been made useless. Food is very scarce and signs of famine are evident in the Northeast and Northwest provinces. In addition all hospitals outside of Communist- controlled cities were destroyed.
      Now they are employing 150,009 Soviet troops including Spetsnaz (special forces). Night!me assaults along the border are more frequent and it is more difficult to deliver supplies. In addition Communist backed terrorist attacks in Pakistan and bombings across the border have dramatically risen since Gorbachev came to power. Although the Soviets have destroyed most of our land they have not destroyed our faith and our determination to fight this war to the last Afghan.
      As representatives of the Alliance we have come to show the world that we are united and strong. We enjoy popular support both inside our country, where military cooperation has increased, and in the refugee camps where one third of the population now lives. Our changes of leadership have been smooth and cooperative. Soon we will open up offices throughout the world.
AE6HAMIWS
Will.________ii£M
PAGE 7
     Nov that the Mujahideen have an Alliance, now that the Geneva proximity talks have reached a so-called critical point, this is the best time for all those vho believe in freedom to give us the credit of being the sole representative of the Afghans. As true and just peace can not be brought about without our full participation. We have the support of all of our people and control most of our land. So ve ask "how can those countries in the U.N., who love freedom, continue to allow the puppet Kabul regime in the U.N.?”
     It is natural for us to desire and call for our friends, the freedom- , loving people throughout the world, to cut off diplomatic, political. and economic ties to the puppet regime and to recognize us as the legitimate representatives of the Afghan people.
     We Afghans, have struggled for more than six years to achieve peace and freedom by .trying to rid ourselves of the Soviet invader. True and just peace can only be obtained through the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the Soviet Union. We feel that a political solution or negotiated settlement is not possible without the full participation of the Afghan Alliance in the Geneva talks. Self-determination for the Afghans must be guaranteed: we will not accept the current puppet Kabul regime.
     What can he accomplished from these so-called "proximity talks"
     in Geneva?
     We do not believe that the Soviets have any intention of withdrawing. Ever since the war began they have "talked" about leaving. While they have ordered their puppets to negotiate the Communists have escalated the war inside Afghanistan as well as
     terrorism in Pakistan.
     In fact these current negotiations are a part of the Soviet political strategy and propaganda. It is designed to fool the world into believing that the Soviets are reasonable men who seek a
     reasonable way out of the war.
     The Soviets will only leave if they pay a higher material and political price. Only when many more of their men are killed, or when more Soviet Gunships are destroyed, when mothers complain about their sons who are killed or wounded, when the world cries out for justice in Afghanistan so loudly — will the Soviets consider withdrawing.
     But to accomplish this, we will need more military and nonmilitary support and international political pressure. The change in leadership of the Kabul regime is cosmetic and meaningless. It is the replacement of one puppet with another puppet. The call for elections, the grand assemblies done under KGB and Kbad supervision are a hoax. We ask the world opinion to be careful in the sight of this propaganda offensive.
AM&AfLMWS.
IQLJJ___M3UL4__
PAGE.8.
     We do not understand how the West cm be fooled by Mikhail Gorbachev. It is true that he seems friendly. But under that smiling face is the iron claw of the bear. Since Gorbachev came to power, atrocities have increased, terrorism and border violations in Pakistan have dramatically risen. Soviet Spetsnaz troops (special forces) are now launching nightime assaults with greater effectiveness along the border of Pakistan. Getting supplies though is more difficult. Do not let the smiling Grbachev fool you. He is responsible for the burning to death of innocent Afghan children, the use of toy bombs which maim them for life and the Sovietization of our country by the kidnapping of children for Communist indoctrination in the Soviet Union. But Gorbachev has not broken our will— he has only strengthened it.              «
     We find it hard to understand why there is so little media coverage here of this war. 1 was told that last year less than one . hour of national TV news coverage was given to Afghanistan in this country. Tet we have seen many journalists come through our offices in Pakistan en route to Afghanistan. And we have seen them come out with very'good film footage.
     How is the world to know of our struggle if they are not shown and not told? Can we afford ignorance when our nation is in the throws of being destroyed. More than 1.5 million have been killed, 5 million are exiles and an additional 2 million are internal refugees. Everyone has been touched directly by the war and nearly every Afghan supports our cause. It is true national liberation movement, one the Soviets would be envious of.
     The key to any solution is the existence of a stronger resistance. The resistance will become stronger if it is given more appropriate material help.
     I would like to conclude by reading to you a letter from a very famous commander.
      " IREGRET TBA T I CANNOT 3E WITH YOU, BUT WE HA VE ALMOST RUN OUT OF FOOD AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES. IN ADDITION I HA VE NO BLANKETS FOR MY MEN...
      AFTER YEARS ...OF FIGHTING ONE OF THE WORLDS GREAT SUPER POWERS, OUR ONLY VICTORY HAS BEEN TO ESCAPE TOTAL DEFEAT.
                    E VEN IF THE REST OF THE WORLD CONTINUE TO IGNORE OUR CA USB WE WILL FIGHT ON FOR WE ARE FIGHTING NOT ONLY FOR OURSEL VES BUT FOR ALL MANKIND. WE ARE FIGHTING FOR FREEDOM AND HUMAN DIGNITY AND THE RIGHT TO WORSHIP GOD..
     / URGE YOU TO TELL THE WORLD OF OUR PLIGHT AND SEND WHA TEVER HELP YOU CAN.
     GOD BLESS YOU FOR CARING ENOUGH TO READ MY LETTER. "
    This was written by General Washington in September 1780 at valley Forge but could have easily been written by one of THANK YOU FOR YOUR KIND ATTENTION.
the
us.