AFGHAN NEWS
' •*:, %
€
 ■ ■ ■ : '■ . ,.-a   " ■              •  • . ■
      • No. 1’       ;  ft2~  1985 1            P-2
 ------------------—----------------— -----------------
 ZABITOFLAK^iS_NO_LONGER ‘ WITH US BUT ...
.*1
     The. shocking and grievous news of Mazar’s beloved commander Zabihullah's martyrdom was disclosed by prof.Burhanuddin Rabbani today in Peshawar.
     According to a report one of the. most charismatic, brave and ardent muslim freedom fighters of Afghanistan Zabihullah ,30» was martyred, ‘ albng with his eight Mujahideen by a mine explosion.
 They .were returning in a jeep from a successful anti-Soviet operation at Shoulgar on Deo. 14-1984. Although no details have been sent yet it. is understood that the. mine had been planted either by the Russians or their stooges.
     Although commander Zabihullah's martyrdom will be an immense lose;., his organization and his Unifying ideas will still be a flaming torch to his followers.
     Commander Zabihullah, whose actual mame was Abdul Qadir was a beloved muslim fighter who died for the sake of his faith. Freedom and faith were two elements which inspired him throughout his life to fight against Communism and tyranny.
     Before becoming involved in the anti-Soviet war in Afghanistan, Zabihullah was a teacher. He was loved and respected by his students and the. local ordinary people. When he was a strong commander of Mujahideen he used to tell the people around him that "it is our sacred duty to stand firmly against atheistic, Russian invading forces,whether the; war is prolonged or not.
     To win a war of such a nature it is important to be a Mujahid but it is more important to be able to continue'ta victory.
     Zabihullah was a very effective link between Mujahideen and civilians. He planned to establish hospitals and schools to challenge Communism and the. Sovietiszation, policy of the Russians.He knew very well that the enemy tactic is to superimpose a new culture and faith by uprooting the established culture of the people.
     Zabihullah was strongly in favour of coordinating and unifying tha strongholds of Mujahideen all over Afghanistan. He knew that without a unified battle zone it will be impossible to win the war. His close relations with commander Masoud was a step towards fulfilling this goal.
     Zabihullah's sad demise is not the end of his honourable way. Although he is no longer with us his organization , his ideas and his followers will challenge the enemy.
 AFGHAN NEWS
 No. 1
 1-2-1585
"r

                                                                           ISMAIEL OF HERAT*-
     1984 was a scene of intensified fighting between Soviet-Kama 1 and Mujahideen forces all over Afghanistan, especially in Panjshir, Herat, Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar Sharif etc.
     Although reports of fighting in Herat province are slow in reaching Peshawar the Mujahideen of Herat, under Commander Ismael Khan of Jamiat, have- been able to send their reports regularly.
     Last week Ismaeil Khan himself went to Iran:t.o give the latest
 news on Herat, In an hour long telephone conversation with prof.Bur-
 hanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat Islam! Afghanistan, Ismaeil Khan
 said "that the Russians have been brutally attacking the civilian
                                                                . *
 population of Herat throughout 1984.
     The Russians have deliberately wrecked irrigation systems , burned crops and decimated livestock in an effort to starve out civilians who support Mujahideen. Commander Ismaeil said that the Russians, along with their puppets, using this tactic, have been able to drive some of the civilians out of Afghanistan to Iran or to displace them to the neighbouring provinces.          . •
     He mentioned that the food situation in Herat is very serious worse than last year. He said lack of food, medicine and clothes will jeopardize civilian lives and endanger Mujahideen bases. He has assured prof.Burhanuddin Rabbani about the organization of the Mujahideen and their morale.
     Ismael Khan was highly concerned about the new Soviet increase s®f forces on the Iran-Afghanistan border and said that the purpose of his trip is to warn the concerned authorities of Iran about Soviet activities on their border.
     In an interview with the BBC Commander Ismael Khan said that the Russians are now using more air bombardments, long-range artillary and 40 barreled KM 21s (Stalin organ) in order to discourage Mujahideen operations and drive civilians out.
     He said that two months back the Russians launched, their offensive No.8, which resulted in the death of 150 civilians in the city of Herat He said that Mujahideen have extended their operations in the city and have been able to limit the enemy's control to an area of less tha 15Rm
     He said that the municiplity building has been captured by Mujahideen too and that the government battalion-6l was also captured with about 500 weapons.
     Commander Ismaeil said that the 12000 soldiers of the Herat division, have been reduced to 1400, He said that there are 35 Russian advisors in the mentioned division who will not take the risk of ...
 AFGHAN NEWS             No. 1             1-2-1985         P-4
 of staying with 1,100 Afghan soldiers at night. Pie said, that the Russians live separately and do not allow any Afghan soldiers to roam around their division.
     The Russians stay in. the southern part of Herat Airport in a flat and deserted plain called Dashti Mir Daood.
     Ismael Khan did not know the number of the Russian troops staing in Herat but he said that the Russians are staying in three bases located in three different and stratigically very important areas. „
     While talking about the food situations and the people's economic* conditions he pointed out that the Russians have to a large extent deatroyed the economic structure of the people.
     The enemy think that poverty will bring people into the government's hand,it is why the Russians have completely burned the crops and looted people's properties.
     Replying to a question regarding arms and ammunition he said that Mujahid weapons are mostly captured and they are in need of more advanced^ sophisticated and effective weapons.
     He said that Iran is not providing arms and ammunition to his
 Mujahideen, In replying to another question whether Mujahideen want
                                                      \
 to receive, arms, from Iran or not he answered "yes why not". He added that we want arias not just from Iran but from .all Islamic countries.
    ‘When asked whether Mujahideen have received any financial aid from Iran? he answered,•"not so far".
                               is killed
     Shiragha Chungor a strong government militia Comfnander was assassinated by. Mujahideen of Herat On Jan, 22nd. Shiragha Chungor was actively fighting against enemy forces in the begining of Jehad. He was in control of Eastern part of the city of Herat and for about a , year or more he. organized Mujahid groups in that area. He was a comma--ndor-tof: Jlarakat Inqulabi Islami of Mawlavi Mohammadi unti he joined the Soviet-Karmal troops.
     For more than three years Shiragha Chungur .was a dark part of Communist militia groups. He was supported by Soviet tanks and helped by government soldiers while attacking Mujahideen bases and destroying civilian houses. Shiragha's death is a great loss for the Russians and a great gain for Mujahideen", Ismael Khan said with Shiragha's death, the Russians and their puppets will no longer have a base for infiltration or a source for attacking Mujahideen.
AFGHAN NEWS                No. 1           1-2-1985         P-5
   ' A Jamiat representative in Mashhad telephoned the following message to ua in Peshawar?                                         / - * -
     While Shiragha, with a Russian advisor was visiting some of his wounded militia groups in the hospital in Herat city, he was assassinated by a Mujahid named/ Abdullah oTC'dlaii!±aiL»it.
     The. assassination was planned so efficiently that both Shiragha and his Russian advisor were shot dead in a surprise attack, Abdulah escaped unharmed.
     According to a report telephoned from Tehran soon after Shiragha Chungur1s death On 2nd Jan, 75 villages previously controlled by him were liberated by Mujahideen of Herat. It is reliably reported that Mujahideen entered the villages and were warmly received by the civilians .
     The report says that Mujahideen captured about 550 different kinds of weapons and much ammunition from these villages.
     It is said that 300 armed militias joined Mujahideen and 50 others were captured alive.
     A report from Mashhad says that immediately after Shiragha1s death thd Russians deserted many of the outposts in fear of being disarmed or captured by Mujahideen.
     According to the same reports 2b MIGs, along with four helicopters air raided the villages of the western part of the city of Herat such as Housi-Karbas, Brarnan, Shalbafan,Paymunar, Babajy, Hawada, Abdul Walid and Diwandcha. ITo casualties have been reported.
     The above mentioned villages are mostly the bases and hideouts of Mujahideen of Herat. However, they are often bombarded by the enemy but still the majority civilians have not been evacuated .
                          MASSACRE IN CHARDARA
     In» retaliation to the death‘of a Russian officer killed by a mine planted in his way by Mujahideen , the Russians attacked Chardara District of. Kunduz province. According to a report on 23 Dec. 84, at 2 p.m the Russians captured the villages of Giraw Qushlaq, Wardak and Khogi-ani to search for Mujahideen.
     As they were not- able to find any the Russian started killing defenceless civilians including the children ,old men and women of these villages. The report says that more than 400 people were killed and many others wounded. According to an eyewitness., most of. the houses of Chardara District were destroyed and the property of the people was either burnti or looted. At present no one lives in the area because of this barbaric and inhuman behaviour of the Russians has forced them to leave their villages for the neighbouring areas.
AFGHAN NEWS              No. 1            1-2-1985        P-6
-- — —  ----------— ----------—---a--------------------------------
                     REPORT FROM PANJSHIR VALLEY
?*rlr§3_             “““    “
    Enemy forces composed of 200 tanks and trucks, which, wanted to reinforce the Soviet-DRA base in Pushghour, failed to cross the Shaba bridge and retreated to Rukha. On the way back it was ambushed in Mal-aspa (a village in Bazarak) as a result of which ten tanks were destroyed and 50 soldiers were killed »
    One P.K heavy machin gun, two AK-7A guns and some ammunition and food were captured.                                             ■■
2^-1-§5
    A ERA officer with 1 A soldiers killed three Parchami officers in one of outposts of Pushghour and joined Mujahideen. They brought: with them their weapons«
    According to a report from Logar a series of minor operations had been launched by Mujahideen of the area on the eve of the anniversary of the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan.
    Logar is a province neighbouring Kabul and most of the rural guerrillas of the southern part of Kabul are based in the upper part of this province. About 18 provinces of Afghanistan take their supplies through Logar. Stratigically speaking Logar can put great pressure on the Kabul-Kandahar road, which is one of the main enemy supply routes.
    This is why Logar has been , and is very important both for the enemy and Mujahideen.
         l)- According to the report two armoured Soviet tanks were destroyed by Anti-tank mines which had been planted on the main road of. Puli Alain.
    In retaliation, the enemy forces attacked the villages in and around Puli Alam which        resulted in the total destruction of the vil-
lages like Patkhuah and Katab" Khil,
    The report says that some of civilians including children , o#LcL. men: and women were killed,
    2) A Rusisian     convoy on: its return to Kabul was ambushed by the Mujahideen at Puli Alam in which four tanks and APCs were destroyed and a heavy machin gun (DSGHK) was captured. No casualtys have been reported,
    3)     “ On 22.Dec.8A, Karmal-Russian forces entered Eolangar area of Logar to make a house to house search in order to capture Mujahideen or to find out their contact houses. Reports says that Mujahideen of the area started their counter-attack which lasted for three hours
and resulted in the injury ox* death of about 10 Soviet-Karmal soldiers. Six Mujahids were reportedly martyred and three seriously injured.
 AFGHAN NEWS             No. 1            1-2-1985         P-7
     The house to house search has been one of the main tactics of the Soviet and Karmal soldiers since the communist take over in 1978* The most brutal part of this tactic is that when they come to search Mujahideen they kill old men and women including their children because s
   (a) they can not escape while the enemy is searching the area.
   (b)   they either do not show them to the enemy or do not know their hideouts. The. Karmal-Russian forces, while using this tactic are not just killing innocent civilians but also looting their properties , burning their remaining possessions and sometimes planting anti-personnel mines, toy mines and laying booby traps in order to inflict more losses when the civilians return home.
                          WARDAK__ PROVINCE
     Wardak is a province situated in the. central part of Afghanistan, neighbouring Logar, Maidan, Ghazni and Samian .Most of its civilians are still living in the province not in Pakistan or Iran. This is important because s
    (a) Kabul-Kandahar government supply route- is crossing it,
    (b)    it is a province through which Mujahideen of the central and northern parts of Afghanistan are taking their supplies.
    According to a report from Wardak when government military officers and civil servants were celebrating their fifth anniversary of the Soviet invasion at Saidabad district in the eve of 27th.Dec , Mujahideen attacked and inflicted heavy losses on them.
     The report says that as a result of this operation more than 6 government servants including one or two officers were killed and 2 from Mujahid side were reportedly martyred.
     According to the same report, written On Jan.11.84, Soviet-Kar-mal f orces air raided a~ village of the same area namely Hassan Bik village On Jan.10.8^ for the 17th time since March 198^.
     The reports add that the air raid which lasted for more than two hours On Wednesday resulted in the total destruction of a mosque In whi/ch' fourty children were studying no one survived. These innocent children were aged from five to eleven. This catastrophe also resulted in the death of twenty young and old men and women of the area and the destruction of about 15 houses.
     It is not the first time that the Russians have committed such forms of brutality and barbarism, since 1980, they have regularly and delibrately strafed thousands of houses and killed thousands of the innocent civilians in indiscriminate attacks. The scorched-earth is often used to forcefully subjugate or drive civilians out of Afghanistan.
AFGHAN NEWS
 No. 1
 :p-8
 1-2-1935
20-1-85
PANJSHIR _ VALLEY
The enemy has launched an attack against Jabulsaraj and Kohlstan.in the plain of Ghemali. A similar' attack has been launched against the district of Eshkamish of fakhar province. No details are yet available from these two attacks.
21=! = 85
A reconnaisance plane of the enemy crashed near Gulhahar Textile factory just-- in the mouth of the Pan j shir valley.
25=1~85
An enemy Helicopter hit by Mujahideen of Manjawour (Bazarak)crashed near the enemy base in Pushghour.
25-1-85
k AFVs were destroyed by Mujahideen in Malaspa near Bazarak and two tanks in Tawakh (15km) inside the valley. Defections of DRA, soldiers and officers is continuing. They bring, their weapons with them.
     In the same date, in an attempt to replace the units of Pushghor base, Soviets landed 350 soldiers by 35 Helicopters near Shaba bridge to provide a safe passage for a new unit to Pushghour , But so far 50 Soviet soldiers have been killed and two tanks destroyed but the enemy has not been able to pass the bridge.
     These bridges had become vulnerable, to Mujahideen attacks and consequently have been strenghtened by the Soviets*
     Sending more troops to the Panjshir is not part of a new major offensive at the moment.
     The enemy has withdrawn from Shamali but has launched an offensive; against Mujahideen of Nejrab.
     No detail of fighting in Chemali and Nejrab has yet been given.
25-1;§5
New Soviet-DRA troops were sent to the Panjshir recently to consolidate the existing bases there.
                           MAZAR_PROVINCE
Shortly after the martyrdom of Commander Zabihullah of Jamiat, Mujahideen of Mazar launched a series of operations in and around the city of Balkh* Zabihullah was martyred On 14 Dec. with eight of his Mujahideen at Shoulgar while returning from an anti-Soviet operation. The latest report reports confirm that Zabihulla's Jeep ran over an anti-tank mine which had planted by Russian stooges.
The report assures us after the death of their Commander, the Mujahideen from Jamiat. have intensified their actions against the enemy and have inflicted heavy' losses on Soviet-Karmal forces.
Jan-4-1985..
The building in which Communist party members were living was destroyed by a mine, planted by urban Mujahideen of Mazar. There were many casualties and 50 party members were, killed.
Jan-5;85
Karmal-Russian forces landed a large number of troops by many helicopters in the areas of Kaladiwalak, Kalaqudogh, Kalagurimurdd,Kalakou and Janawar Khana of Marmoul. According to the report the enemy forces wanted to destroy Mujahideen bases at Marmool and its surrounding: areas•
Clashes throughout the area between Mujahideen and enemy forces continued for five. days. Eventually the Mujahideen were able to inflict heavy losses on the enemy and force them to withdraw.
The report says that in retaliation the Russians killed many civilians including six shepherds at Karghazi located between the city of Mazar and Marmool .
Another unconfirmed report from the city hospital says that Eorries carried wounded Russian-Karmal soldiers to the hospital
Jan-15-85
Urban Mujahideen from Mazar assassinated Sarmoalim Raouf a well-known and effective servant of the. Russians. He was the head of the council of the Father Land Front. - ...
The report says that the Russians consider his death a great Joss to the Communists and the Russians.He was killed in his house near Guz-ari Sia in the city of Mazar, He was a. bad. man who was in direct contact with the. Russians.
Jan-16-85
Two strategic government outposts at Guzari Marmool and Guzari Quba-dian have been captured by urban Mujahideen of Mazar. These two outposts which were located in the city of Mazar contained 30-35 soldiers
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 2
5:2-1985
P-10
ANDKHOY DISTRICT
               (these reports reached us after two months).            ,
Russian-Karmal forces launched a large offensive in the Andkhoy area of Faryab province which resulted in the destruction of at least ten villages and a large number of civilians being killed. The ‘offensive which is considered to be the. largest one. since the; Russian invasion, lasted for two days during which., the ground forces wdirSe supported by Helicopter gunships.                                 r‘'- ■  ;
According to the report the. enemy.soldiers entered Andkhoy District On Dec.6.84 and -surrounded the; area with hundreds of tr’o'ops and dozens of tanks arid armoured fighting vehicles. Mujahideen from;the area used hit and run tactics to inflict losses on the enemy; -The report says that
Mujahideen were able to destroy three tanks and kill.; JfO enemy soldiers.
                                                                  •' - j-
including Russians. Six Mujahids were also martyred.
RTJNDUZ ^PROVINCE
 A large convoy of Russians, on its way to supply Ishkatnish district, was ambushed by Mujahideen from Kunduz at Arab Qudugh village. The ambush resulted in-the' destruction of two tanks and the death.of about 16 entemy soldiers.
 PANJSHIR VALLEY

  ■Feb^-2-85
  According to a report;."Mujahida-en of, Abdara and Feraj attacked an enemy base at Anawaw which resulted In the death or 'injury of about 19 enemy
.soldiers.                       •     .....
  Feb-3-§5
            D.uring an operation by Mujahideen, from Abdara" against an enemy .base ... at Dhrstebak (the lower -part of Rukha.) , Two' tanks’ and 13 vehicles, were destroyed . Another tank ;was. .destroyed by anti-tank mine at -.Rukha.
                            KABUL (KARIZ .MIR)         ’  - -      '"i
 'Febi4-85'-                              1
 The enemy attacked Mujahid bases at Kariz'Mir (15 km North of Kabul city). After seven hours of fighting Mujahideen were able to destroy two tanks and kill many DRA soldiers.According to the report the enemy could not, collect the dead bodies of its soldiers including a high-ranking government political officer. The report says that four AK-^s, a ■ cojnmunication systemand many different, kinds of. ammunition, were cap-
tured .
FARYAB PROVINCE
According to a reliable report a well-known and committed Commander of Jamiat in Faryab city has been martyred by the enemy. He was 31 and was loved and respected by his fighters and the common people. He had captured or destroyed more than government posts and outposts. His groups were -operating in the city of Faryab.
  AFGHAN NEWS ___________No. _3 __________-2*1^2-2-.        P-1'1
                            farah_5^2 Y5 5 9?
                      . 200 children, taken by force
  lan-2-85
  All a sudden, the Russian entered our villages of Chah Zendan and Gurgak in Farah province. It was : a catastrophe, an enent unprecedented in Farah province. The Russians shooting aimlessly everywhere, terrifying every body, about 200 children aged hptyeen 6-11 were taken by Force from their terrified mothers. No one knew why or where they have been taken. Mothers old and young were wee-ping, ter ^trucks and APCs loaded with their innocent -children.
  This shocking report has bee'n brought by an witness from Farah province, According to the report the Russians entered the vilpL^ges of "Chah Zand an, -Samak, Kwanzak jand Gurgak in the .district of Anar-Mura *Of“-Farah.. While their defenceless, mothers .cried, about 20Q children were taken by force by the Russians,. The report add3 .that they might have been taken to either Herat or Kabul.
  Jan-9=§5                     . wtrf •                     -
  Russiau-'Karmal forces launched a large offensive to destroy Mujahideen bases in Anardara and Qalai Gah districts. .During a counteroffensive operation Mujahideen of the area inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. The report says that at least 19 different vehicles including tanks and APCs were destroyed, 40 enemy soldiers were , killed and some weapons captured by Mujahideen.
  The'report adds that - six Mujahids were martyred and eight (Severely ^ injured.
                          3ADAKHSHAN PROVINCE Dec.2^.84                            -------
  According to a letter of Commander Sayed Najmuddin of Janiat, Russ-ian-Karmal ; forces have launched a severe attack on the ..central'base of Mujahideen located’ in Verdoj valley. The battle between.Mujahideen from Jamiat and Russian forces lasted for more than 11 hours which resulted in,the., death and injury of many Russians and Karmal soldiers.
         *                                         • ' • . : 'J '
  The report adds that a group commander called Abdul Ghafoor was martyred, six other Mujahideen were injured. Seventeen civilians were killed by the bombardment. The eyewitness who brought the letter , said this offensive was the largest one since 1984.
  Dec.24.84
  The same letter reports.that Russian forces attacked villages of Te-ergaran, Soofian, Sarask, through Zibak sub-district which is on the border of Soviet-Russia and Afghanistan.
  The fighting between Mujahideen and Russian forces lasted for three days ra.sulti.ng in the. destruction of . six vehicles including tanks and the shooting of a helicopter. Different kinds of arms and ...
 -AFa^AN^NE^S  ______-.52___________ „27-2-1_985  ______ _ _ _ _ ^¥zlz_
  and ammunition were reportedly captured. Six Mujahids were martyred and 12 inquired:.. The report adds that when the Russian ground forces withdrew from the area, the aerial bombardment on defenceless villages continued for another week.
                                       BAGHIAN_PROVINCE '
r According 'to a report which reached here after 40 days, Mujahideen of Jamiat have launched a series of attacks ih the city of Baghlan,1 Puli Khumri and Baghlan Sunaati (industrial area). Because of its • stiajbegic importance and geographic location, the.Russians have a very strong, base at Dashti Itailagai and many othersrJSiiaJU»»-XKmih±rijed Soviet and DRA posts at Puzai Eishan, Puli Khumri etc.
  Dec.11,84   '                                     ' ''
  IN ■» mm m,m.M
  During an operation between Mujahideen attd Soviet-Karmal forees at Baghlan Soriaati (industrial area) about 12 enemy soldiers were killed.
  Dec*25~8^
--Mu jahideeh ambushed a convoy of. Russians at Puli Khumri which • resulted in the destruction of eight different kinds of vehicles including tanks.
  Decj7;8^
  In an operation between Mujahideen and the Soviet-Karraal forces which lasted for more than five hours, Mujahideen were able to destroy softie trucks and APCs and kill or wound some enemy soldiers. It is said that the Baghlan Governor's brother, Allam , was also injured A Mujahid and many civilians were martyred .                 .
  Dec-21-84
  Mujahideen ambushed a group of enemy soldiers at the city *f Puli Khumri which resulted in the death of two and the capture of 13 soldiers .
  Jan-I0-85
            Mujahideen launched an operation at Baghlepi Sugar Factory. Thirteen
  DRA soldiers along with their weapons were captured.
                               PANJSHIR VALEEY iz2=85                       ---------------
  Two tanks and two trucks were destroyed in Rukha as the result of RPG firing and the explosion of anti-tank mines. On the same day one tank and one truck were destroyed in Tawakh (15km inside the valley). The defection of DRA soldiers and officers is continuing.
                                       . HERAT PROVING^ .
  Dec=22-84                                   "
  Mujahideen of Herat under Commander Ismaeil attacked the government Division Nos 17. Five DRA soldiers were killed and 8 AK-47s captured.
  AFGHAN NEWS__________ _No. 3   _27-_2_-J_98_5___________ P-13
  Decj22-8^
  Mujahideen ambushed an enemy convoy at Baghi Dasht (Tourghundi-Herat highway)-Vhich. resulted in the destruction of two tanks.
  Dec-23-8^                                      '
  Mujaliideen destroyed a government outpost, at Baghi Shahi (Herat -City) using explosives. The operation resulted in the death or ^injury of all enemy soldiers guarding the outposts including the *^ieputy of the party provincial committee.
  Dec-25-84_
  The.Director of the government information and culture^department ifas assassinated by Mujahideen in daylight*
  Det-26*84
  A security outpest of the government intelligence network (Khad)
-’was Attacked, and destroyed by Mujahideen at Ghordarwaz. The i*ep*rt '■-says that four Khad members weW killed , three captured alive and .rv .10 AK-k'Js siezed.                      ..  ..
  Dec-27-8^                                ■■■•                ,
  pm      — — —
  In retaliation to Shir Agha Chungur1s death, (a government miltia *rCommander), the Soviet-Karmal forces attacked and bombarded areas, like Hauzi Karbas, Iraaan, Babaji, Abul Walid, Baghcha, M»ostufi , Diwarcha, Soofian , Shalbafan, Hawada etc. Three times .
  NO casualties have yet been reported.