 AFGHAN_NE¥S___________  No. _1 4_______ 5jr1C-85___'      P-44
                      AFGHANS_^M_THANKFUL TO ■ THE BRAVE SWEDISH LADY
    In the youth conference which was convened in Moscow some weeks ago, Katarina Lorsson, a brave Swedish lady, strongly criticized the policy of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan Her speech was welcomed by most of the participants*. The Soviet authorities tried very hard to prevent her speech but they failed. As a last resort they stopped translation of the speech into Russian, This act of the Soviet authorities contradicts all accepted international norms.
    Mujahideen inside the country were highly impressed by the. courage of this brave lady and other delegates who raised their voices against the crimes which the' Soviets are committing against the. innocent people of Afghanistan. For several days the name of Katarina was repeated by Mujahideen and they related the story of her bravery to each other. The name of this lady and others who defended the cause of justice and of peace will be remembered for ever.
    Gorbachev, the first secretary of the Communist party of the Soviet Union , has been invited by Francois Mitterrand, the president of the Republic of France, to pay an official visit to France in the first week of October.
    The people of Afghanistan fully appreciated the efforts of the French government towards the restoration of national soverignty in their country and its position in defending peace and the cause of freedom. The people of Afghanistan also remember that the president, of the Republic of France when he was assuming power as the president emphasized that the normalization of their relationship with the Soviet Union was conditional on the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan and finding a political solution to this problem.
    Unfortunately the Soviet leadership not only did not respect this just demand of the French government, but it extended the level of their military activities' in Afghanistan. After eight, years of political and six years of military intervention their atrocities against the people of Afghanistan has reached its new hights.
    While the people of Afghanistan are aware of the needs for contacts between the countries and are., not worried about, these types of meetings, we expect the meeting of President Mittorand and Mr. Gorbachev to have a peace initiative that the Soviet intervention will be condemned and practical steps are taken for the restoration of the freedom of the people of Afghanistan.
                                                                                     5-10-85
AFGHAN_NEWS__________  No. 1 it-
P-^5
                          _:  ' N__E-¥_S   : , -
                          TAXHAR PROVINCE §3-9-85                                  _
 Sovie.t-DRA forces launched their second offensive in less,than one -month against Mujahideen in Farkhar■district of Ta-khar; province.Fighting is continuing but no* details are available . Farkhar is la. stronghold of Mujahideen who. are dominated by Jamiat Islami of Afghanistan.
            " "h ■            BALKH PROVINCE                 ' *
 13=9=85 *   ;  ■                            ■
 The Soviets launched an offensive against Mujahideen around Kazar Sharif, They landed troops in Marmolr Shadian and Shoulgar areas. The. enemy left? the area after seven days of operation. No details of Sighting have been recieved yet. Kazar is dominated by Jamiat Islami.The leader of Mazar is Mawlavi Alain Who took this job after Zabihullah’s
 sad demise. -                                                      t
                               KABUL_
 The recent explosion of the. enemy ammunition Depot in Xhairkhana which was.reported earlier by diplomatic sources was carried out by Jamiat Islami members, A time-bomb was used in this operation.
   .                        PASWAN PROVINCE
 Mujahideen of Jamiat planted a time-bomb in one of the trucks of the enemy in Qalai Surkh near Jabulsaraj (at the mouth of the Salang,valley) .The truck was full of ammunition. As a result'of this explosion one tank and six trucks were destroyed.
                             KAPISA. PROVINCE 15-8-8$ - "
 Mujahideen of Jamiat attacked enemy positions around the provincial capital. Fighting continued for three hours. Three enemy soldiers were killed and some were injured. The enemy retaliated with artillary bombardments against Mujahideen positions from its base in Bagram,
 §8-9-85
 Mujahideen raided the enemy outposts of the provincial capital of Kap-isa. Thirty three (33) officers and soldiers of the enemy (DRA) were killed or injured.
                     During the operation one Mujahid was martyred and five others injured.
                           SAMANGAN PROVINCE 30-7-85                    ...... .........
 A group of enemy militias joined Mujahideen of Jamiat in Xaldar district and brought with them 120 guns of different types and some ammunition. Several villages of Kaldar district were liberated from enemy control.
 8-7-85
 Soviet -DRA forces attacked the Mujahideen position in Kaldar district resulting in the death of 3 Mujahids and k civilians. The. enemy also lost some men.The Mujahideen captured 1 AK-^-7 and a loudhailer. .
AFGHAN NEWS
No. -U
 _5-10-85________ __p-ij,6____
 THE _TRUE _ SIDE_ OF^THE __ ST ORY
    The monthly bulletin of the Afghan Information Center,N* .5^- Has published an interview with the respected French Scholar Olivier Roy about the situation,in the Panjshir valley, In this interview there are two points which are not understood and need to be clarified.
 It is said that the proposal for a ceasefire was catagoricallly rejected by the Couneil of the Commanders. The fact is that there was not any discussion about a proposed ceasefire and there was no such proposal.
    It is also mentioned in the interview that the 200 prisoners of Pu'shghour were killed by Mujahideen before the Commando attack by. the Soviets. The true story is that they were killed by the Soviets bombardment and crossfiring between Mujahideen and the invading enemy. Mujahideen even evacuated and treated some of the injured prisoners.
                    T^_FIRST_PMSO^R_EXCHANGE
    Informed sources report that one Soviet soldier who was 'a prisoner in the hands of Mujahideen was exchanged with six Mujahideen who had been captured by Soviet-BRA forces. The deal took place in the first week of September between Ettihadi Island, for the Liberation of Afghanistan (prof. Sayyaf’s Organization) and the enemy side in Logar province.
    As far as we know, this is the first time which Soviets have, dealt with Mujahideen in-a prisoner exchange. In the past Soviets have been sensitive towards these types of dealings.
    It seems that the soldier belonged to a family which has a greai amount of influence inside the Soviet government.
AFGHAN _ NEWS       No , _ 1 5_______                        P-_9j_
           THE .SECOND _ 0|TXCXAE_S POKEMAN_OF_THE _ COALITE ON
   On the second of October, Gulbudin HekmatyarAmir of Hezbi Islam! was appointed .as the second official spoksman of the- coalition. of the seven Islamic parties toy the- Supreme Council of the Coalition.
   This decision was announced in a press conference which was held in the preseface of the leaders of all the seven constituent parties. In the communique of the coalition which w^s read by the newly appointed spoksman, it is said that Mujahideen would officially a&k for membership of the Organization of Islamic Conference (o-I-C)a The seat of Afghanistan has been vacant since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan iji 1979*
   According to the constitution of the Coalition each spoksman would be elected for a period of three months. The spoksman when speaking for the. Coalition, would be confined by the decision of the Supreme Council. According to the rules of the coalition, each party would keep its independence and the coalition is an umbrella organization to co-ordinate political and military activities of the constituent parties. So far the coalition has taken careful steps
     CL.
and ns been successful. We believe that if the previous mistakes are. not repeated, this coalition will not only last but will be streng-gar. and can gain the confidence of the people of Afghanistan,
Once that confidence is built one can expect that the Coalition would pifiy; an effective role in the military and political affairs inside the country. The Coalition has a long way to go for the achievement of tit.s aim but with sacrifice, hard work and reasonable policies it can be achieved,
                         MUJAHIDEEN _ CHALLENGE IS?_?UPPET._REGIMIS_CREDENTIALS .IN_THE__
   When the Soviets invaded Afghanistan and installed a puppet regime in Kabul, the seat of Afghanistan in the U.N was also occupied by their puppets.
   The Afghan people started their struggle for the liberation of their country this had continued for five years. The Resistance now controls more than 80 °/o of the land and the absolute majority of the. population. The control of the occupationist'force and their puppets is minor and inef f e-ctive .
   It is reasonable and just that the Resistance which is the. representative of the people and has control of the land, should represent the Afghan nation, not a puppet regime which is kept:in Kabul and some other cities by about 200,000 foriegn troops. The time has come to demand our rights and win back the seat of Afghanistan in the United Nations.
 AFGHAN NEWS
  -            -NoV-1~5         .                   13-10-35.         .                .          p_48-
 Some Afghans-, •■connected with the Afghan Resistaiice, have been working towards thia -aim for 1 ye.au^The coalition of the Mujahideen parties has also issued a communique in which the Supreme Council of .the coalitionhas asked for. such as action in the U.N. A delegation of the Resistance will be sent to the current session.
    It is quite possible that this issue will be raised in the general assembly ver soon. The Resistance hopes that muslin countries , third world countries and the free world will support such a just dem-
 aIld*                       NEWS.
                            HERAT PROVINCE
 According to a report sent by the Jamiat Office in Meshhad, in the last week, Soviets have been trying to create problems to logestic lines of the Mujahideen in the Western and NorthrWestern borders of Afghanistan.
    The enemy launched aerial and ground attacks on Ghoryan and Kohsan districts which are.located close to the border. As a result of these operations 60 people including 20 Mujahideen were martyred and some others were injured. Material losses for the people in the area were heavy.
    •The report adds that Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and killed or
 wounded 120 Soviet-DRA forces. The report says that Mujahideen of Bad-
 ghis district killed Bashira the Secretary of the Women's Burea of
 the Communist party. 1 „    ..                      TAKHAR PROVINCE
 10--9-65
 Soviet-DRA forces attacked Mujahideen positions in Khawja Ghar District with a relatively large force. Some days before the attack the Mujahideen had captured three Kh.ad agents and the enemy attack was in retaliation. The enemy lost three tanks and trucks, and 28 men, Twh Mujahids were martyred and one injured.
    Mujahideen cooperated with each other and this ensured the enemy's
  » ■
 failure.
  . After two days the Soviet attacked the area again and set many houses on .fire.
                ;            BAGHLAN PROVINCE .
 5r8-85                     ' ................ '•
 Enemy forces attacked 3 villages in Hasantal (near Baghlan city) and
 surrounded them. The enemy retreated after seven hours of fighting.
 Fourteen enemy-soldiers were killed and some others injured,.One liujahid
 was martyred and another was seriously woundbd.
  •;                                               " , 4 *; .. ■
 It should be noted that Hasantal front is headed by Arbab Jumma
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 15
                                                                                      13-10-85
p-49.
9z9-85
MAZAR PROVINCE
The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Sholgar District, After 2k hours of fighting, the enemy was forced to retreat. Three tanks and 3 trucks were destroyed and some enemy soldiers were killed dr wounded. Two Mujqhids were killed and k others injured in the operation.
 13^8-85
 The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Nahri Shahi DlstrijQt^
 The Mujahideen fought well. After five hours of fighting the enemy retreated lossing three tanks and some men. One soldier was captured along with his AK-47. One Mujahid was martyred.
 14-8-85
 Mujahideen from the Eastern parts of Mazar Sharif captured a Khad truck when it was on the way to Hayratan Port on the Soviet border.
 13f§-85
 Mujahideen set an ambush in Charsang village and oaptured two prominent members of the Father Land Front. These two agents namely Sham-sul Haq'and Khalifa Mohammad Gul were tried by a court ajad than. qtt■ cuted.
 Mujahideen attacked Father Land Front positions in Xoshak area and captured kO different types of weapons.
                       USE OF NEW SOVIET WEAPONS
 In their last attack, the Soviets used some new weapons against Mujahideen in the Panjshir valley.
 'One of the new weapohs used in this attack was a iong-range rocket (80 km) which is fired from their bases outside the valley. These rockets can spread anti-personnel mines.
                           ■                                               i
 In the last attack the Soviets also used 245mm mortars which have a shell of 130 kilograms. They have brought four of them inside the valley. Mujahideen have captured some o<ff its shells which are as tall as an average man.
                                                                      ■
 The Red Army has started to use a type of wire-guided rocket. These rockets are either launched from a helicopter or a portable launcher.
 The Soviets have started to make extensive use of seismic mines (these mines are known as wave mines among Mujahideen). These mines are planted by Soviet soldiers and the DBA forces know nothing about them.
 The Soviets have started to make use of night seeing devices for tactical missions. They stage raids and ambushes at night and penetrate Mujahideen controlled areas under the cover of darkness. Since the Mujahideen do not have this equipment, this could pose a serious threat.'
  AFGHAN NEWS.... _.......Np*..1                           -^-£r52____
                    TO BE USEFULgE_A_.GOOD_MUSLXM
  - v iFor an Afghan to be a. .useful element in the Jehad against the Soviet invaders, he must be a good muslim,. In other words, a secular element, a so-called anti-Soviet leftest, an un-disciplined loose, liberal or a blind nationalist can not serve the cause of Jehad in an effective way,                                                  ,     .
     The question is why? the answer is simple. Islam has a dominating effect on all sides of an Afghan's life. Any element which does not agree totally with this    4
  way of thinking , faces the opposition of the masses whom he wants to serve. For such an element there is no position other than to adopt a two faced policy. On one hand he must show to his own people that he is a good muslim , on the other hand he must work covertly for his owxf aims. This type of man must hide in one1 Of the Islamic parties ;to protect himself while working through illegal means" to reach his undeclared aim . He is a saboteur in that party and makes its weak.
  We-have boen witness to., the weakening of some Mujahideen parties , as ..-a result of this type of infiltration. The effects of their work is .^..atjntrary. to the .interests of the people and useful for the enemy.More than that, when these people are rejected they feel frustrated and sometimes even join with the enemy to take revenge, 'SAMA1 is a good study case..                                                         ■
     Some foriegn elements and groups have tried to encourage these people and have even provided funds and moral support but with no success. The theories of some of these people may be appealing to some forie-gners but they are not acceptable to the people of Afghanistan and they will never succeed.
    Only a good muslim can be useful to the cause of the Jehad.
                             MUJAHIDEEN_DELEGATION'
  The coalition df Mujahideen parties sent a number of delegates to New York last week to participate in the ^Oth General Assembly discussion on the problem of Afghanistan. The delegation was headed by Gulbudin Hekmatyar the current spoksman for the coalition.
  The members are s
  1- Eng.A. Abdul Rahim from Jamiat Xslami
  2- Din Mohammad from Hezbi Xslami (Khalis group)
  3- Dr. Zabihullah from the National Salvation. Front
  k- Mr. Loodin from Harakati Enqilab                   *
  5- Saljoqi from Nifa
  6- Zunarak Yasir from prof.Sayyaf party.
 .AFGHAN          u                            _ _22.-Tfl-.85_            ____
                               N__E__¥__S
 30-9-85          .     . -?5?252'„2'?2^_$^§Ht- ..    ■
 Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked Kabul Airport from Paymenar and Dashti Deh Yahya villages with ground to ground rockets (MBRL).
 Two helicopters were destroyed' and five other: aircraft partially.
 damaged. The Military School close to the Airport was also hit. One
 rocket hit a store at the Airport and set it on fire.
 The next day the Soviets ,bombarded the suspected villages which caused considerable damage to the village buildings. One villager was wounded.                  ......
 1-1-0-85
 Mujahideen from Jainiat ambushed an enemy patrol along the Salang highway near Qalai Murad Baig (about 20 km. from Kabul city). Two tanks were destroyed and their crew were killed.
                                SALANG
  ^-10-.85
 An enemy convoy was attacked by Mujahideen of J.X.A at South Salang. Ten Soviets and 17 puppet troops were killed, 8 puppets were injured and 15 others were captured.
 Four-APCs, two trucks and one Soviet tank werer destroyed. Mujahideen captured 30 different types of guns and one R-105 communication set. The attack was carried•out under the command of Pannah, Mujahideen had no casualties. The next day the Soviets landed Commandos at Cook-lami (a side valley of Salang) and burnt h number of houses.        1
 Ten civilians .■(mop. and women) wore killed.
 It should be noted that this ambush was filmed by the: well-known English Freelance journalist Andy Skypzoviak. It will be on Television
 SOOn*               S 2    OFFENSIVE _AGAINST_ CmK
                      DISTRICT OF ¥ARDAK PROVINCE
 10-110-85          •
 This offensive was started with three days of heavy bombardment of Chak district and Dimirad sub-district. After three days they landed troops by helicopters and moved their armoured columns by the road.
                I
 Heavy artillary units of the enemy had taken position along the Kabul-Kandahar highway and bombarded the villages and other positions of the Mujahideen
 The offensive continued for ten days, he Mujahideen resisted well in in Chak area. They killed 80 Soviet-DRA soldiers, destroyed 9 tanks and APCs and shot down one helicopter. Sixty six Mujahids and civilian were killed during this operation and 32 others were taken as prisoners Most of the deaths were caused by the heavy aerial and artillery bombardment. A large number of houses were destroyed. Many Mujahideen and civilians were wounded; during this attack.
AFGHAN NEWS
P-J52
                          No, 16         22-10-85
    Chak District is a beautiful valley which has been liberated for a long time. Fortunately there is an understanding between the different ..Mujahideen groups, Jamiat is well-established in this area.
                                NORTH SALANG
    Soviet forces attacked the Jamiat base in Bajgah (at the mouth of the Andarab valley) and fighting continued for seven days. No details of casualties from either side have yet been given,
                                          PANJSHIR VALLEY
    8-10-85
    The enemy landed commando troops in Shotol valley (a small valley parallel to the Panjshir main valley). Severe fighting took plft.ce between them and Mujahideen. One hundred enemy soldiers were killed.
    No figure for Mujahideen casualties is given in the report.
    5-10-85
    Soviets have intensified the aerial bombardments of the Panjshir valley. In one day they dropped 100 bombs in Till and' three hundred in Mokoni side valley. Fighting against enemy convoys is continuing in Malaspa and Astana (the two villages of Bazarak). These convoys resupply the two bases of Pushghour and Baharak.
                           U^Si'^TRADE. WITH_THE PUPPET REGIME
    The American government speaks openly, against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and does not recognize the puppet regime of Babrak Karmal.
    But Afghanistan has been given a "most favorite nation status" in trade. Among other things, Americans are selling spare aeroplane parts ‘ to‘Arlana. Airlines. Trade with the puppet regime J?®acdist_25 mil-liohDollars each year. We do not know how the American government can answer to this contradictory policy. Any relationship of this kind is considered by the Mujahideen as an unfriendly action toward the Afghan people who are fighting against the Soviets and their puppets. This type of relationship can create doubts in the mind of ordinary Afghans abotit. U.S .policy towards Afghanistan.
                                         Tir2*!25$® _ 2*L 255^2
    1- In the Pusiighoor operation which took place in July of the current year, 60 Mujahideen defeated and captured more than 500 of the enemy
   ' soldiers with only two casualties.
    2- After the Pushghoor operation the Soviets launched a massive attack against a a narrow side valley called Mokoni, The purpose of the enemy was to rescue prisoners of war. About ^00 people including local Mujahideen, local people and a great number of Mujahideen from outside the valley were caught in the. attack. The narrow valley was sealed by Soviet commandos who landed by helicopters. Throughout the day Jets and helicopters dropped bombs and the enemy artillery and long-range rockets were pounding the valley.At the end of the day all the people escaped
   from the enemy encirclement and only one lady was martyred.
      AFGHAN_NE¥S_____________No. _17__ _3_1_-_1_0-_8_5__________P-53.______
                             THE__ROLE ' OF Tiffi_¥OMEN_IN_THE_ JEHAD
         Our .-war against the Soviet invaders is a war against aggression «. This type of war, which is fought for a just cause, , is called"Jehad". Jehad is a duty of every male and female in a muslin community. Like any other form of worship it falls on the. shoulders of the individual and of society.
         The history of Islam tells the story of women who have fought with arms or have, helped the fighters by providing food arid medical eare.. The wife of the prophet (peace be upon him) was one of these,
         Xn our war against the Soviet invaders, Afghan women play an active role. In Afghanistan, because of the presence of a large number of men usually more than the number of guns we have, there is no need: for women to be involved in battle activities. But Afghan women, contrary to what is commonly believed, are not sitting and doing nothing to support the Jehad, They are helping their sons, brothers and husbands, in preparing food and. taking care of wounded Mujahideen. Their encouragements boost the morale of the fighters. Some brave Afghan women have even taken part in armed combat.
         If the oursida, world does not see evidence of women's participation in the Jehad it is because of cultural and religous considerations.
         Our women help the Jehad in our own way and their support is is vital for "its continuation. It is not possible for a man to fight if he lacks the support of his wife, mother or sisters. The percentage of women sympathetic to the cause of the Jehad is higher than non-combatant men. This is because the womenfolk are more vulnerable to Soviet atrocities than men.                                 ■
         Staying within the limits of our culture and religious beliefs, the Afghan resistance enjoys the full support of the Afghan women. Demonstrations and other activities by our sisters against the Soviet invaders is proof of this.
                                             N_E_¥_S
                           POSS^^_IARG]E_OFFENSiyE_AG^NST_PAMJSHIR ■
      22-10-85
      Intelligence reports reaching Mujahideen say that the Soviets are planning a large offensive against the Mujahideen in and around the Panj-shir. This offensive may cover the areas' of Andarab, Kh.ost, Kohistan and Salng. It seems that the attack against the neighbouring areas will be carried out with the purpose of isolating the Panjshir. Mujahideen expect the attack at any moment.
      Some forces have already started entering the valley under the guise of resupplying existing bases. Mujahideen have recently destroyed six tanks and six trucks;- and killed 44 soldiers of the new forces.
 AFGHAN”NEWS
 No.... 17
.... 31-1 Q-.8.5 ..

  A Soviet high-ranking military ofl'icer was killed while his tank
      travelling from Anawa to Rukha was ambushedThe -tank was dest-royed and 8 Soviet soldiers who were accompanying the officer .were killed. Four AK-fk guns were captured in the ambush.        , '
  In the last three weeks, the Soviets launched a simultaneous attack against the Mujahideen of Shakar Dara, Estalif,Ashaba,Ghorband,North and .South Sklangs, Larkhab and Andarab. They made use of heliborn. troops in>these attacks and now they have retreated from all these areas-
                        REPORT FROM HERAT PROVINCE
  8-10-85 ----- - --
  Mujahideen attacked Shinadand Airport. Thirty tanks were destroyed .and ‘ the hospital building was damaged. The report does not say any thing about how the attack took place. This could be the work of a long-range rocket attack of sabotage.
  15;; 10-85
  Mujahideen from Jamiat in Herat attacked government posts in Sendajan and Ghoorat district. Thirty five enemy soldiers were killed and 25 others were captured with their weapons. Mujahideen also captured a Khad agent during the operation. Two Mujahids were martyred.
                              PARWAN PROVINCE
  8-9-85                                '
  Mujahideen from Jamiat exploded a bomb in Charikar city. As ..a result of this 6 communists were killed and 3 others injured. One government tfubk was destroyed and a building which housed the communist party office was damaged.
  14-g-85
  4 bomb, was planted near the Father Land Front and communication buildings in the center of Charikar city. Twenty Communists were killed in the explosion and the two buildings were damaged.
  16-9-85
  A time bomb was planted in one of the restaurants where members of Khad were meeting. In the explosions seven communists were killed and ten others were wounded.
  28-9-85
  A bomb exploded in the police headquarters in Charikar city (40 km. North of Kabul). The bomb was planted by Mujahideen from Jamiat . A large number of policemen and their officers were killed and the building was completely destroyed.
     The Communist Coup and then the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan has changed the peaceful atmosphere of educational institutions, the most important being university of Kabul,                          '
AFGHAN NEWS
No. 17
31-10-85
Pt.55
     Kabul University is guarded by armed men 2h hours a day and this is done by party members, Khad and a police unit which is stationed permanently inside the campus■
        There is a party structure in each faculty and party members closely watch the students and teachers. The University party branch supervises party activities in the whole University. The head of the University branch is the strongest man who decides about important matters including the appointment of officials and professors.
        The level of the education is dropping each year because the main purpose of this University is not to produce educated people. Its aim is to serve the party. Illiterate student from the tenth ilass in high schools, ontor the. university..without taking an exam after military service. Presence in the class is not necessary for party people. Passing the exam and promotion to the higher class in not bound to understanding time subject.
        The faculty of Engineering, whish .was famous for hard work and discipline has been closed. Some new faculties for social studies have been established on Soviet style. This last year 80^ of all the students hare been girls and the remaining 20°/o are men who are party
     members of Khad agents.
        Most of the experienced professors of the University have been killed,jailed or have left the country. The new professors are those who have, graduated from the Soviet Union and other Eastern bloc countries.
        There are many Soviet advisors in Kabul University who give directions. The Kabul University of today is not as it was before the invasion. Like all the other things in Afghanistan, it ha.s been spoiled by the. Soviet invaders.
                   P APE R _ M ORE _ FRIGHTE NT N G:__ TBA.N _ THEGUN
        Sometimes Mujahideen spread leaflets in the Russian language. In these leaflets they address the ordinary Soviet soldiers and other
               i
     officers and remind them of the crimes they are committing against the innocent people of Afghanistan. On one occasion some of these leaflets were spread in one of the Soviet bases near Salang. A large number of Soviet officers and soldiers irecieved these leaflets . The. Soviet authorities started a major search operation and put many of the officers and soldiers in jail. One of these officers who was going on leave was searched in Tashkant Airport and one of the leaflets was found in his pocket. He. was sent back to Kabul for interrogation.
        It seems that the Soviet high command in Afghanistan is afraid of the facts reaching their soldiers and officers.
   AFGHAN ’-HEWS        _ _ _No t-11                     AVJJ3-”-1-9-8-5.    _P“_5_6__
   They have, told then lies and now they, want to keep then in the dank. Xt is possible to decieve paopla.for a tine but to deceive everyone for ever is impossible,
                             VXNTER_HAS_COME
       The first snow has fallen in Afghanistan and a hard winter has started . Tens of thousands of people who have lost their houses and belongings are facing severe problems. Lack of food, shelter and warm cloth is making winter more difficult. The Soviets are preparing for a winter offensive. Only faith in Allah and love, for freedom makes then stand firm and continue their struggle. Allah be with them.                   v. . ......