AFGHAN rEUS VQL. 111, NO.5, 1^3/ 196? PAGE 9
 Afghan Mujahideen, Turkish Cypriots and Moro Mujahideen were given only a very short time to tell the long story of their sufferings, The time of the speech was allocated late at night when the delegates were tired.
 Compared to Taif summit ,the proceedings of the conference on such a hot issue as Afghanistan , was very dull. There was little media converage of the proceedings
 From all the above it seems that despite lavish expenditure of money and extraordinary security measures , the summit fell short of the aspirations of those nations who fight for their freedom
                                  SOVIET SPONSORED ACT OF TERROR
                                                                                                              <
 A powerful bomb planted near a school in a village just outside Peshawar city caused great loss of precious lives. The bomb was hidden in a truck parked in front of a school and close to one of the offices of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. The powerful bomb went off at 915 am on 19 Feb, killing 14 people and injuring more than 60. The local people reacted by taking procession which were joined later by students from different schools and workers of some political parties
                                                       f
 Anti government and anti-Mujahideen slogans were raised and several vehicles belonging to Afghan Refugees were either burned or damaged This is the first time that, the masterminds of terror in occupied Afghanistan have chosen schools for their targets and wanted to make a cause out of the blood and flesh of innocent children This was done after the announcement of So-called ceasefire an reconciliation program, by the puppets and just before the beginning of Geneva proximity talks
 The explosion took place after so-called signs of flexibility by^the Soviet leaders to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan This barbaric act was aimed at creating misunderstanding between people of Pakistan and Afghan Refugees. This meant to put pressure on the Pakistan government and get belter terms in the Geneva talks
 Afghan Refugees fully sympathise with mourning families who lost their members. Some political leaders, sympathatic with the puppets in Afghanistan rushed to the scene and repeated their accusation against Mujahideen, and incited young people to attack refugees
                                                 o
 The over reaction of the people may encourage the communists in Afghanistan and their calloborators in Pakistan to carry out similar acts of subotage against innocent civilian targets
 Knowing about the conspiracy, prof. Rabbani, the leader of Jami’at Islmi Afghanistan went to Gari Faqir where the explosion had taken place and talked to the local people on Feb.22 Professor expressed his deep sorrow over the incident and called it a brutal act of common enemies of the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan He also announced a compansation of Rs. 5,000 for each martyred families and 1000 for each person injured and Rs 10,000 for rebuilding the school
 In order to avoid creation of misunderstanding between the people of Pakistan and Afghan refugees its necessary that Mujahideen parties fully co-operation with the Pakistan authorities in exposing the enemy agents
 The refugees will do anything possible to avoid repetition of similar incidents It is also necessary that our Pakistani brothers should not listen to fabricated stories made by those who are their hand in glove with the Soviets
              THERE IS NO OOD BUT ALLAH, MOHAMMAD IS THE PROPHET OF ALLAH
1 1M THE MAMB OP AUOGHTT ALLAH 1
AFGHANmsws
                         A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I’AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                       VOL. Ill, NO. 6*7. 1/4/1907.
OFFENSIVE AGAINST REFUGEE CAMPS
The Soviets have intensified their terroristic action in the form of air raids on refugee camps in Pakistan.
Feb. 19, 1987. A large car bomb was exploded by the Soviets agents near a school outside Peshawar. 14 people were killed and more than 60 wounded (most of the victims were innocent school children).
Feb. 26, 1987. On the same, day of the Geneva talks, 16 aircraft bombed a small town in North Waziristan killing 40 people and injuring more than 200 others.
Feb. 27,1987. Six Jets coming from occupied Afghanistan bombed areas near Parachinar in Kurm Agency. 50 civilians were martyred and 30 others killed.
March 23. 1987. Terra Mangal (a small town dose to the border) was bombed 86 people were martyred and 128 others injured.
 March 23. 1987. Mauda Khali area of North Waziristan was bombed by four Soviet Jets. 35 people were killed and 22 injured.
 March 23. 1987. Angori village in South Waziristan was bombed. 23 people were martyred and 47 injured.
 The situation along the border is tense and the Soviet planes are overflying the area and continously violate Pakistan air space.
 This all comes after Soviet propaganda that they want to withdraw from Afghanistan.
 The majority of those killed by enemy air raids were Afghan Refugees and the rest Pakistani brothers. The Soviets have intensified their activities for the following reasons:
       1 - To kill more Afghans and their hosts in Pakistan.
       2- To create tension between Refugees and local the population.
       3-  To force Pakistan to soften its position in Geneva talks on Afghanistan which will be resumed in May.
The saddening part of the whole drama is that the Soviets are not being criticized for their barbaric actions against innocent civilians. Even in the official protests, the puppet regime is blamed, not the Soviets. In fact
flFBHRH HEIIB TOL.III, HO.6*.?, 1/V 190? PAGE 2.
everything which happens in Afghanistan is the responsibility of the Soviets because they are in full control of the occupied Afghanistan.
The world reaction towards such atrocities is very small and this absence of outcry against aggression will encourage the Soviets to repeat what they have been doing. Yesterday Afghanistan, today Pakistan; tomorrow will be any body else's turn. If the aggression is not stoped in Afghanistan the world will face a dangerous situation.
                                       NEWS
                               FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                        KUNDQZ PROVINCE
14/3/1987. The Soviets launched a large scale offensive in Eundoz province and the district of Imam Sahib. Imam Sahib was bombed with tens of helicopter gunships which flew from the bases inside the Soviet Union and commando troops landed in the area. Several villages close to the border have been totally destroyed and the offensive in the area has been described as unprecedented by the report. Casualties among the civilian population are very high. The report does not give a specific number but says hundreds of old men, women and children have been martyred, Eundoz city suburbs have been surrounded by enemy armoured units. Search operations are continuing and in some villages commandos landed by helicopters. It is believed that the attack is a retaliatory action in response to a rocket attack by the Mujahideen inside Soviet territory which took place on 9/3/1987. The battle has continued for five days. No more details are available at the moment.
Eundoz is a province bordering the Soviet Union and has been the scene of several massacres in the past seven years.The Soviets have a big base in Abdan-i-Mir Alam and control Eundoz airport. It is a fertile province. The Resistance is well established in the area
An un-coqfirmed report says that a Soviet citizen has been captured by the Mujahideen in Eundoz The report does not specify the identity of the man an does not say if he was a miiitaryman or a civilian . The report further added that the mentioned prisoner was delivered to the Council of the North authorities on 20/2/1987,
                                        MAZARBSRARRBF
22/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the enemy posts in the villages of Arghoon and Bahanuddin in Balkh district. Enemy evacuated the post Mujahideen captured guns and some ammunitions. The report does not give and details about the casualties of the enemy
                24/2/1987. Mujahideen captured three trucks belonging to the puppet regime on Mazar
RFGHRN HEU8 TOL.IIt, H0.6&7, 1/V t»7 PROS 3
 - Hairatan Road
 10/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat in Balkh district attacked the enemy post in Charsang area. Seven soldiers were captured with their weapons.
 3/3/1987. Mujahideen destroyed a poorer distribution center. Power for Mazar is coming from the Soviet Union. The enemy suffered heavy losses in men and material but no details are available.
                                            PAKTIA PROVINCE
 23/3/1987. Mujahideen of the area, a group from each party, jointly attacked five government outposts in the Khost district of Paktia province. According to Jami'at Office in Miramshah, three outposts, called Sheena Kan da, Way Dand and Padshah Gul * Kut, were totally destroyed and the other two namely Tora Lota and Landi Meena partially captured.
 The operation started at 400 Am. and lasted upto about 8:00 Pm., the source said. Three outposts were a real threat to Mujahideen supply routes for more than four months.
 12 DRA soldiers were killed and 230 captured. Six Mujahideen including two group commanders from Jamiat were seriouslay injured.
                                            HERAT PROVINCE
 In a joint operation Mujahideen of ail groups attacked government strategic border posts at Qezel Islam on March 4th, As a result all the posts were captured, two tanks and 14 trucks were burnt. 23 enemy soldiers killed, 40 injured and 20 captured. Two trucks and about a 100 different light weapons were seized. Two Mujahideen were martyred and five injured.
 On the same day Mujahideen of Herat attacked another border post at Joynaw, (One Km North of Islam Qala) in which two trucks were destroyed and two soldiers killed.
 Next day, on March 3th Mujahideen of Herat attacked some security posts at KalaU-e-Barichi and Kalata-e-Purbuzha (about 7-8 Km North of Ialam Qala). In which 13 soldiers along with their weapons were captured.
                                          JA WZJAN PORO VINCE
 14/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat attacked the enemy post in Baqawi village near Sheberghan city. Two puppet officers were killed and seven others injured. Three soldiers surrendered and brought 3 Ak-47s with them. One Mujahid was martyred and two others wounded.
 4/3/1987. The enemy attacked Mujahideen positions in Ch&r-Kool village. After severe fighting the enemy retreated There are no details about the casualies of the two sides.
                                            PARYAB PROVINCE.
 4/3/1987. According to a report from Faryab Mujahideen and the communist forces clashed in the Sheereen Tagab district. Fighting continued for eleven days. Mujahideen destroyed 4 tanks and three trucks, 22 soldiers were captured along with their weapons. Enemy casualties are reported to be heavy but no figures are yet given.The enemy airforce bombed the villages as a result of which a large number of houses were destroyed. 7 Mujahideen were martyred and 16 others injured.
                                            KUNAR PROVINCE
 2/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat under the command of commader Afsar attacked the
RFGHRH KEUS WL.III, HO.M.7, 1/1/ 1987 PRBE W
    enemy post in Narang sub-district and Sarksni district with mortars and ground-to-ground rockets. Three militias were killed and two others wounded. One enemy tank was destroyed.The Mujahideen returned to their bases suffering no casualties.
    5/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in co-ordianlion with other parties launched an attack on the enemy post in Badail valley. Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets and mortars. Five communists were killed and three others wounded.The enemy retaliated with artillery fire and aerial bombardments of the positions of the Mujahideen. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen.
    14/2/1987. Twelve enemy soldiers and officers who were on patrol, were killed when they entered a minefield planted by the Mujahideen in Khas Kunar district.
                            NANGARHAR PROVINCE                                  «
    17/2/1987. The enemy launched a surprise attack against Mujahideen in Shiwa district. Fighting took place between the two sides. 6 of the enemys were captured alive by the Mujahideen and the rest managed to retreat. The report is silent about casualties on ' both sides.
    26/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat which were assisted by Mujahideen from other parties launched an attack against the enemy posts in Goshta district.The Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets. Shells hit the target but the casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
    27/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Surkhroad district attacked the enemy garrison in Sultan Poor-e-UIya with 107mm rockets. Four enemy soldiers were killed.
    27/2/1987. Mujahideen belonging to all the parties attacked enemy positions in Goshta district with 107mm rocket. Only one Mujahid was injured during the operation. The enemy suffered heavy casualties. Several buildings were set on fire and several trucks destroyed.
                                     RAPfSA AND PER WAN PROVINCES
    4/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat and Hezb Islam! (Hekmatyar group) launched an attack against enemy positions around Guibahar Textile mills located at the mouth of Panjshir valley. Fighting started at 7 pm and continued All 5:00 Pm the next day. The enemy pounded the positions of Mujahideen with long-range artillery from different bases located in the area and the airforce. Mujahideen from Jamiat captured 30 AK-47s, one AK-74, 4 Rocket Launchers and one communication set of R-108 type and some ammunition of different kinds. Seven Mujahideen were martyred and three others wounded.
    More than a hundred puppet soldiers were killed and wounded and some others captured. Mujahideen from Hezb also captured some weapons.
    4/3/1987. To mark the historic uprising of the people in Kabul against the invaders the Mujahideen launched a co-ordinated attack against the enemy convoys and security posts on Charikar-Matak section of the Satan g Highway More than 30 tanks and trucks were destroyed and 40 soldiers killed and wounded. Mujahideen casualties are not mentioned in the report.
    The Mujahideen also launched an attack against the Soviet base in Qaia-i-Surkh at the mouth of the Salang valley The enemy suffered heavy casualties. As a result of the enemy's retaliatory fire, two civilians were martyred and seven others wounded. The Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties.
    14/2/1987. Mujahideen from Jamiat in Guibahar and Shaikhan Khail (at the mouth of the Panjshir valley) attacked the puppet garrison near Guibahar Textile Mills. A political commisarwas killed and 3 soldiers injured. Mujahideen captured one AK-47
AFGHAN HEUS VOL.Ill, NO.M.7, !/«/ 1967 PAGE 5
and one TT pistol.The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                                                  KABUL PROVINCE
16/3/1987. Mujahideen from the Jegdalek front of Jamiat attacked a Soviet post in Tangi Abreshum on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway For two days traffic came to a stand still. One tank was destroyed and the Soviet post eras hit with heavy weapons as a result of which 6 Soviet soldiers were killed. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
March 9. 1987. The Russians and MIA launched air and ground offensive on Jegdalek and Hesarak from three sides namely, Suroobi, Tezeen and Nangarhar areas.
According to the report hundreds of different kinds of vehicles and APCs along with thousands of troops participated in the offensive. The fighting lasted for six days 20 * tanks and APCs were destroyed and one Jet shot down.
About a hundred DRA and Russian troops were killed. While trying to save or take away, the destroyed Jet a Helicopter was destroyed on the ground by RPG-7. 13 Mujahideen were also wounded and martyred
                                              AFGHAN NEW YEAR
 March 21 is the first day of the Afghan New Year. It is also the first day of the spring and the beginning of activities for the farming communities which form the majority of the population of the country.
 Before the occupation the first day of the year was celebrated both by the people and the government ail over the country. Government arranged sports activities, raising flags on shrines and families gave alms to the poor, met relatives and all prayed for a happy new year.
 Since 1978, like ail sides of life of Afghans, this historic day has not been observed along traditional lines. Families are divided, people have died, villages and towns are destroyed, the country is divided between the occupied cities and the liberated countryside. 1/3 of the population has left the country and a bloody war between the people and the Soviet forces continues. Because of all the above changes Afghans do not have the opportunity to celebrate the first day of the new year on traditional lines and enjoy the company of relatives and friends in an atomosphere of peace and hope.
 Now the start of the new year marks the beginning of severe military activities. Large scale offensives will be launched as the weather conditions improve.
 For the farming community and the whole population this time of the year is economically difficult. The prices go high. As a result of the war and lack of rain, this year, this situation is worse. People in the cities and the country side do not have the ability to buy enough food for themselves For the farmers, lack of seed, cattle, and fertilizer are serious problems.
 Afghanistan's New Year is celebrated all over the world in the form of meetings, exhibitions and processions. Peace-loving people of the world show their solidarity with the Mujahid Nation of Afghanistan who have been struggling for seven long years against a Super Power to preserve their freedom and honor.
 The New Afghan Year will be witness to more political and military activities by the Soviets against the Afghan Nation . This will be a very important year for the Afghans and the cause of freedom in general. We hope the year (1366) will be a witness to more victories for the Mujahideen kWe have a hard year ahead of us but we go ahead with determination and a hope for total victory and a return of peace.
ftFGHRH HEUS UOL.III, NO.M.T, 1/1/ 1987 PAGE €
                                                BASELESS CLAIM
 In reference to Najib's interview, published in the"Muslim" on date 26 feb., in which he tried to change the facts and create distrust among Mujahideen; Jamiat Islami Afghanistan clearifys its position as follows:
 The decision of the Alliance to reject the ceasefire and the socalled national reconciliation program proposed by the puppets was taken after detailed study of the problem. The decision was unanimous and supported by the refugees outside and the Mujahideen inside the country. There is no difference of opinion on this issue and the parties can not be divided as hardliners or moderates concerning this problem.
 The Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, of which Jamiat is a member, totally rejects the ceasefire and the socalled reconciliation program of the regime as a * ploy to deceive world public opinion.
 Najib's comments about the position of the parties, is a KGB style attempt to create distrust among the Mujahideen and confuse the world about the realities of the' situation in Afghanistan.
                           THE SOVIETS' DEEDS DO NOT MATCH THEIR WORDS
 Talking to the Muslim, Sayed Sharafudding Pirzada. the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Conference, said that after two trips to Moscow he found the Soviets quite serious and sincere in the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan.
 Pirzada may have reached that conclusion but there are hard facts which challenge his views. The Soviets have occupied a country, they are still there and the war is continuing. So far there are no practical indications to show that they are preparing to leave Afghanistan.
 The Soviet leader's announcement of a token withdrawal of a few thousand troops proved to be fake and had no effect on the war in Afghanistan. Their puppets announced a ceasefire and National Reconciliation program which they ignored themselves and the war escalated afterwards. Several offensives were launched on the Mujahideen in the East, South and other parts and one major offensive continues in Qundoz at the moment. Refugee camps inside Pakistan are being bombed continously and hundereds of people have fell martyred or have suffered injuries.
 They sent their puppets to Geneva but demanded four years for pulling out their troops, but with a lot of difficulty reduced this to 18 months. While talking in Geneva they exploded a car bomb outside a school in Peshawar and raided two refugee camps inside Pakistan killing and injuring hundreds of people. These are all facts which speak for themselves.
 The Soviets have not came down from their previous position of choosing leaders for the future of Afghanistan. So far they insist that the so-called revolution of their puppets in Afghanistan is irreversible. They use the 90 called National Reconciliation and Ceasefire (which does not exist any more ) as an anti-guerrilla tactic to divide the resistance .win the war on the political front and confuse world public opinion.
 All the above reasons show that there is enough ground to doubt the seriousness of Soviets and their sincerity in finding a political solution acceptable to Afghans. It is strange when these words are pronounced by a responsible person like the Secretary General of the Organization of Islamic Conference who is fully aware of the situation in Afghanistan and has an idea of the depth of suffering of his muslim brothers and sisters in Afghanistan.
                                       The Soviets make use of any trip by religious figures international organizations and even sport for propropaganda purposes. Their invitation of Mr. Pirzada to Moscow is an attempt to improve their relations with the Muslim world which has suffered because
flFGHRH HEIIS WOt.lH, H0.6&7, 1/V !9B7 PAGE V
 of their invasion in Afghanistan. When the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference call them sincere and serious (without practical justification) it gives the aggressors credit in the eyes of Muslims all over the world.
 The beautiful words of Gorbachov to the Islamic Summit blunted the sharp edge of the resolution on Afghanistan and Soviets escapted unnamed after killing half a million muslims and driving out five million others. The Soviets while admiring the position of the Islamic confrence on a lot of issues, has ignored ail the resolutions of the 0.I.C on Afghanistan in the past seven years.
 Showing optimism about the aggressors' words and not mentioning the great sufferings of millions of Muslims in Afghanistan, harms the cause of the Afghans. Beautiful words and admiration of an aggressor does not end the war. Soviets will only leave if they feel continous pressure on their shoulders.                         *
                                         EX-KING BELONGS TO THE PAST
 When there is talk about finding a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan some people raise the question of returning the ex-king as the head of the government in post-war Afghanistan. These people argue that the Mujahideen parties have killed the Soviets therefore, they are not acceptable to the leaders of the Kremlin. The ex-King had a good relationship with the Soviets and has not been involved in the war for liberation. He can be acceptible to the Soviets.
 The arguementS that the leaders in Kabul must be approved by the Soviets goes against the spirit of the Jehad and the principal for which Afghans have sacrificed so much. It is against the will of people for freedom. People have rejected Soviet choice of leaders and have taken arms to prove that it is the right of Afghans to choose leaders for themselves.
 The rule of the king in the past proved to be disasterous. Economic backwardness, corruption and indifference about religious and national values, the imposition of foreign culture and the opening of the tfoor fcr the Soviets to spread their influence have been characteristics of the ex-ting's role. It would be difficult to immagine his rule would be different in the future, You cnn not teach an old dog new tricks.
 He is a dividing figure instead of bring a symbol for national unity. The majority of Afghan Mujahideen parties feel very string about him. Any attempt to involve him in the future of Afghanistan could trigger groat difficulties. Knowing this, Najib when annoucing his so-called reconcilirticn program singled out Royalists in his speach.
 For any person to play a constructive role ?s i leader it is neccessary to have a natural base amongst the people. The fillers cf a kingdom's power in Afghansitan. city bereucrats and country side landlords have boen shattered as the result of nine years of war. To re-build a new base is too late. The followers of the king put emphasis on the frustration of the people and their timbers of the war. But you can't build a strong organization from such people and thero is no such charisma in the ex-king or his immediate relatives to give new lif" to the; ? people.
 Afghanistan has undergone deep changes. The social fabric has been re-newed. Now the young leadership does not co*”'« from the traditional circles of power. They come from the grass root level with new ideas and outlook. They have gained leadership through their merits in war and in handling the politics in their areas.There is strong evidence that these people will not be satisfied with a leadership which has spent all the seven years of war in growing roses in the comfort of western cities. Lately it has been observed that the supporters of the return of the king which are found mainly in exile are anti-Muj&hideen elements who can not even hide their strong feelings against the commanders and political leaders of the Mujahideen in public.They separate the poor people of Afghanistan from the common Mujahideen and the political parties fighting the Soviets and count on the imaginary support of the first.
flFBHRH HEU6 001. Ill, N0.M.7, 1/V 1987 PflOE g
 The argument that the ex-king will come as an individual not a ruler or on a temporaty basis is very naive in its nature. The king knows only how to rule not hoar to be ruled.
 If he wanted to participate as individual in the Jehad, the people would have seen this. The theory of temporary rule is a repetition of the past mistakes. Nader Khan when he took power from Habibullah Kalakaai told the people that his mission had come to an end and they can choose their own leader. His friends immediately raised their voices that you saved Afghanistan, you are the leader. He led Afghansitan for decades and his family was planning to remain in power for centuries.
 From all the above we can say that there is no constructive role for the ex-king to play.
 He belongs to the past, not to the future.
                                           WE ADMIT OUR MISTAKE:
                  SOVIET DEPUTY DBLBGATB TOTHB UN                           *
 A deputy Soviet delegate to the UN, Ronald Timerbaev, admitted in a conference in Columbia University on Friday, March 20. that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was a -mistake. This is the first time a Soviet official has ever admitted that their invasion has been a blunder. Admission of a mistake in not enough, mistakes need to be corrected.
 To correct what happened in Afghanistan, the Soviets do not need to go around the world and publicize their good intentions. They can correct their mistakes by stopping to kill the people of Afghanistan, withdrawing their forces and leaving the people of Afghanistan to decide their future. If they feel the need for a pre-arranged withdrawal they can talk to the representatives of the people of Afghanistan, the Alliance of the Mujahideen.
 Contrary to what they say not only have they not tried to correct their past mistakes they continue to follow the old lines. Fighting is intensifying, people are dying and thousands of Afghans continue to leave their country The Soviets demand a long timetable to withdraw their forces. Attempts are being made to impose the puppet regime through an international agreement, on the people of Afghanistan. All that indicates they are not ready to correct the mistake, what they are attepting is to minimize the costs of their mistake and deceive the world opinion.
                                    SOVIETS HELPED MUJAHIDEEN UNITY
 The announcement of a ceasefire and a National Reconciliation program by the puppets was designed to weaken the resistance but it worked the other way round. In the past seven years the resistance had little opportunity to play a political rule. The Soviet initiative gave the resistance that opportunity and the resistance used it wisely. The coalition of Afghan Mujahideen which is an umbrella organization faced a new situation when the Soviets announced the ceasefire but so far it has handled the situation wisely.
 The common stand of the Alliance, the support of the refugees and Mujahideen for their position gave new life to Unity. This must have been very dis-appointing for the Soviets and their friends and very encouraging for the friends of the people of Afghanistan.
 No doubt the resistance is now in a good position but there is a need for maintaining and even strenghlening the Unity further. This can be done through practical steps in military and political fields. So far the resistance leaders have played their game well but there is a oeed for increased effort to do a better job.
             NO PENCE WITHOUT THE RIGHT FOR RERL SELF-DETERHIHAT ION
1W THE NAME OF ALMIGHTY ALLAH |
                         A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
                                POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                                        VOL. Ill NO. 8, 15/4/1987.

WHEN THE BIG TRAGEDY STARTED
 27 April marks the 9th anniversary of the communist coup in Afghanistan. This was one of those events which brought the greatest tragedy of our time, the occupation of % Afghanistan and the subsequent 9 years of war.
 The coup which was carried out by communist officers had the backing of the Soviets. -Daud vho vas once a close ally of the Soviets had become suspicious about the loyality ~ of the communists and the friendship of the Soviets. He van ted to decrease the dependence on the Soviets and communist elements at home. The Soviets did not like this. Communist officers in the army vho were mainly trained in the Soviet union made the coup. In the first fev days of fighting between the tvo sides. 20,000 Afghans vere killed.
 This coup brought to power a party called PDPA (Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan) which was composed of two major factions namely Khalq and Parcham. They had joined together on the advice of the Soviet advice to end the rule of Daud who had helped them grow and even had shared power with them.
 the communists who had won the battle against Daud started to impose the Soviet way of life on the people of Afghanistan. They attacked all aspects of Afghan life including the private family-life. Besides confiscating the property of the people under the guise of land reforms, they imprisoned thousands and killed thousands of others whom they thought vere a potential problem in their way. These people included religious leaders, professors, students. ex-MPs and officials and ordinary men and women. The communists changed all the educational institutions into patty propaganda classes and centers for the regime's activities. The regime distributed guns to school children to defend their villages against imaginary counter-revolutionaries. All that was done to frighten people against raising their voices against the crimes they were committing.
 It was too much for the Afghans who had lived a free and honourable life in the past. Islam, the religion in which 99% of the people believe had (ought them to fight against evil with the best possible means. Peaceful protests vere answered with imprisonment and murder and people were pushed to the extreme They were forced to the last option, the armed struggle. Those who try to put the cause of insurgency against the regime elsewhere can make a great mistake. The causes were home-made.
 From April 1978 to December 1979 the situation witnessed a great change. The peace-loving people of Afghanistan were engaged in a war against the communists from border to border all over Afghanistan. Tarski was killed by Amin; Bebrak and Najib were sent to exile and even expelled from their party Most of the country-side had come under the control of the Mu jahideen.The 80.000 strong army was reduced to 2,000 and all the equipment went to the resistance All that was done without aid from oUtside. The communists made use of every thing to break the resistance but proved to be ineffective. The Peoples Democratic Party was facing the peoples' disapproval. The hammer of the Muslim worker and the sickle of the Muslim farmer were pounding the heads of the communists and cutting their roots. The Soviets vere sending money, weapons and even advisors to help the regime defend itself. All proved to be ineffective and very late.
                              i
 The Soviets intervened, killed Amin, brought Babrak and blamed Amin for all the problems of the past. The coup ended with the invasion and the civil war gave its place
AFGHAN NEUS UOL.tll, HO.8,      15/4/  1987    PAGE  2
to struggle for liberation which has continued for seven years.
By looking back the following conclusions can be drawn:
       1- The coup was encouraged and backed by the Soviets.
       2- People uprising against the communist regime was a natural answer to the harsh measures the communists took in implementing their plans.
       3- Opposition against the regime was not local. It covered the length and the breadth of Afghanistan
       4- Communists relied on Soviet promises rather than their own strength The communist who were city-dwellers .were ignorant about the realities of the life the majority of Afghans. They could see the solution to every problem through the use of force. They were successful against the army of Daud but failed against the people of Afghanistan.
       5- The important factor which defeated the communists was the peoples' strong belief in Islam. The common man in Afghanistan watched the open enmity of the communist regime towards religion and religious figures.
6- All the above mistakes permanently ended the political life of the communists They can survive only under the protection of the Soviets. The puppets can not pretend to be good Muslims and no body believes in their promises of good conduct in the future. They have branded themselves Soviet agents, a curse which can never be erased.
18/3/1987. Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Sandooq village. One Mujahid was martyred and another wounded by anti-personnel mines planted by the enemy. Mujahideen attacked the post with heavy and light weapons The casualties of the enemy were not immediately known.
24/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at launched and attack with heavy weapons on the puppet forces positioned in Mohmand Dara (close to the Pakistan border). The shells hit the targets and the enemy suffered heavy casualties.the exact number of which were not immediately known. Torkham-Jalalabad road which passes close to the area was closed for nine hours. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
NEWS
FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
NANGARHAR PROVINCE
PROVINCE
flFGVRH HEUS UOL.III, NO.0, 15/4/ 198? PRGE 3
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mohmand Dara in co-opertation with the Mujahideen from NIFA attacked enemy positions at Razi Qala. Six militias were wounded. Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 23/3/1987. Mujahideen fired 8 shells of 107mm rockets at the enemy positions in Hazar Naw area. 3 puppets were injured and one killed.
                                             JA WZJANPROVINCE
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from jami'at in Qarqin district attacked the puppet positions in Keiift, a town located on the Afghan-Soviet border. Fighting continued for two and half hours. One officer and 5 puppet soldiers were captured along with their weapons and a communications set of R-105 type The enemy sustained casualties but the report does S not give exact figures. 5 Mujahideen were injured in the operation.
 Keiift is a border town through which the gas pipeline passes. Gas is an important products of Afghanistan which is being exported to the Soviet Union at a lower price than the international market.
                                               NORTH OF KABUL
 22/3/1987. One militia was killed when he stepped on a land mine planted by the Mujahideen in village of Estarghich in Qarabagh district.
 26/3/1987. Combined forces of the enemy attacked Jami'at areas of Qarabagh district. Fighting continued from 6:00 Am. till 9:00 Pm Five enemy tanks were destroyed with RPG fire and 35 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. 5 Mujahideen were martyred in this operation.
                                               HERAT PROVINCE
 30/3/1987. According to a report from commander Esmaiel Khan, a known militia commander namely, Ahmad Shah who has been working for a long time with the government of Kabul, along with 40 armed men, joined Mujahideen of Herat in Jam village of Enjeel district.
 In three different operations the enemy forces attacked Mujahideen in the areas of the Western part of the city of Herat. On 23rd March, the enemy forces launched an offensive to besiege places like Karta and Dasht-e-Ali (suburb of Herat city). Mujahideen in their counter operation, were able to kill 6 and wound about 40 enemy soldiers. Two Mujahids were wounded.
 24/3/1987 The enemy troops attacked the areas of the Western part of Enjeel district. Mujahideen in their counter operation destroyed 6 different kinds of fighting vehicle and killed about 40 of the enemy soldiers.
 The report also says that a group of KHAD members ambushed a group of the ? Mujahideen and captured 6 of them on 24rd March. Later the Mujahideen of the area launched a counter-ambush which resulted in the release of those captured Mujahideen. 6 KHAD members were killed and 6 AK-47s seized.
 A different source reports that during these daysthe Kabul defense minister was also in Herat city.
                                            FARTAB PROVINCE
 19/3/1987. Mujahideen from jami'at in Faryab city under the command of Mawlavi Sayed Mohammad Yousuf captured 3 high ranking officers in day light at Ganj Market in the heart of the city. The officers were from the National Reconciliation Committee of the puppet regime. The report says that the prisoners were all handed over to the
AFGHAN NEUS UOl.lll, HO,8, 15/1/ 1<3B7 PAGE 4
Judicial Committee of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan in Faryab.
11/3/1987. In a veil planned operation Mujahideen from Jami'at under Mavlan Sayed Mohammad Yousuf captured 8 enemy outposts in Faryab city. About 175 different kinds of light and heavy -weapons -were captured. The Mujahideen also captured a complete surgical set from one of the clinics close to the above mentioned captured posts.
And hold fast.
All together, bg the Rope Which J :Rod ( streched out for gou), and | be not divided among gourselves j

                                                                                                         * i r. ME.-Ss-Ss
                                     NANNGARHAR PROVINCE
15/3/1987. Mujahideen from all the parties including Jami'at attacked Ghoshta district. Mujahideen made use of 107mm rockets and 75mm RR guns The shells hit the targets and the enemy suffered heavy casualties the exact number of vhich are not available yet. Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
                                          GHOS PROVINCE
3/12/1986 According to a late report. Mujahideen from Jamiat shot dovn a transportation helcopter of the enemy in Cheghcheran, the provincial capital of Ghor with RPG fire Mujahideen sent the report vith some documents vhich they had retrieved from the debris of the destroyed Helicopter. It should be mentioned that due to lack of proper communication and vinter months it has taken a long time to receive this nevs Slov communications are a serious problem to the effective reporting for these, areas
                                       KANDAHAR PROVINCE
23/12/65. Mujahideen from Jami'at attack an enmey base in Chavny close to the city. Eight puppets vere killed The Mujahideen captured 6 AK-47s
23/12/65. Mujahideen also attacked the enemy position in Dasht-e-Sufi (3 Cm North of Kandahar city) as a result of vhich 12 enemy soldiers vere killed and vounded.
 21/3/1987. Mujahideen under commander Mulla Naqibullah attacked enemy posts at Pashmal (15 km vest of Kandahar - Panj vaee district) In this operation 12 oil-tankers vere set on fire and about 18 enemy soldiers vounded and killed. Tvo Mujahideen vere vounded in the operation too.
22/3/1987 A convoy of the enemy loaded vith ammunition and food stuff, heading towards Panj vaee, vas ambushed by the Mujahideen at Salyan area and reportedly vas totally destroyed A Mujahid vas vounded, the report said.
                                            *«*#
                                           *******
RFRHRH HEUS 001.111, HO,8, 15/^/ 1987 P«l5
                                             A LETTER TO THE EDITOR
 / THE FOLLOWING LETTER WAS SENT ST HASTE BROXUF TEE ASSOCIATE EDITOR OE CENTRAL ASIAN SURVET. AND TEE EDITOR OE TEE CENTRAL ASIAN NEVE LETTER. SEE AND EIS FATEER ARE EXPERT SON CENTRAL ASIA AND STUB? TEE EFFECT OF TEE AFGHAN IVAR ON TEE IfUSLIMS OF CENTRAL ASIA/
 I entirely agree -with you that the Soviets are not offering anything new at the moment, and I do not share the optimism of those vho expect a political solution very soon. I will try and resume some of my thoughts:
 I think that there is some sincerity in Gorbachev when he says that he wants to end the war. This is not of course for any humanitarian peace-loving reason as advanced by* naive journalists, but because of growing and almost insoluble problems at home (some of them the direct result of the Afghan war). But ending the war does not. at this stage, automatically mean that they are willing to withdraw. As you yourself put it "we want Afghanistan but we do not want to fight for it'.
 However much the Soviets may wish to end the war, and assuming that they may even be willing to leave Afghanistan,. I doubt that they could afford to do so with the stigma of defeat. As the situation is now, a rapid withdrawal of Soviet troops would be seen for what it is: a military defeat for the Russians and the proof of the ideological failure of communism. This would be a very dangerous precedent for them Apart from the loss of prestige in the-Middle East and the Third Vorld, consequences of a Russian defeat could be even more dramatic at home, especially in Central Asia.
 If communism is seen to obviously fail in Afghanistan, then why not in Tashkent, Baku. Samarkand, Varsaw? "If the Afghans defeat the invincible Russians, then perhaps we, Uzbeks, Kirghiz, Poles etc have a chance".
 As it is, I am totally convinced that were it not for the example of the Afghan resistance, such violent riots would not have occured in Alma Ata so soon. Problems for the Russians are only just starting, not only in Kazakhistan but in the vhole of Central Asia and Caucasus. Similar problems, or "negative phenomena' as Gorbachev calls them, are now already f acing the Russians in the other Central Asian republics. They have reacted by unleashing one of the most violent anti-Islamic and anti-nationalist campaign since Khrushchev and Stalin "s days. This will of’course only exacerbate anti-Russian xenophobia
 What is more since the Alma Ata riots, a serious of new legislation is being passed which for the first time in the history of the Soviet Union is going to split the Communist party and the administration along ethnic lines - Russians versus Muslims This will result in the same chaos as among Khalq and Parcham The same discrimination is now applying all among the lines, encouraging the birth rate among the Russians but trying to curb it among the Tajiks, etc. Whatever the shortcomings of the Soviet Union previously, it was always “one" monolithic state, with the same laws for everybody (at least on paper). This is now changing and, I believe in time will lead to catastrophe for the Soviet leaders
 Militarily you know better than I hov disastrous the situation is for the Soviets, especially now with the stingers It is well known that "a regular army who cannot win a guerrilla war completely, totally and quickly, has lost" while guerrillas who just manage to go on fighting will win.
 Thus I think that the Soviets will put all their energy and skill in trying to find an "honourable" for them political solution. Nothing of course will be settled in Geneva (this is just gaining time), and eventually they will have to come to the bargaining table directly with the Resistance. They have no other options, unless of course they decide on one last major and final offensive trying to bomb the Afghan population out of existence. They may attempt to do this anyway in order to be able to claim that they are leaving Afghanistan on a victory. (Being an optimist I do not think that they really
AFGHAN NEUS UOt.lll, HO.B, 15/4/ 1987 PRGE 6
                                                                         t
have the guts to do this, especially as they are trying to present a peace-making image internationally).
Nov vhen it comes to proper bargaining between the Soviets and the Resistance, on for instance the shape of an eventual interim government or whatever, I truly believe that you - the Resistance have nothing to be scared of and will be in infinitely the stronger position for one very simple reason:
the resistance has the "cadres", ie the political staff (I do not mean the top political leaders in Peshawar, but those people in the middle echelons who actually do the work, militarily, logistics, administration etc whether in Afghanistan or in Peshawar). The communists one the other hand have none.
 Prophet Mohammad (PB U.H ) said:
 li
 Let him who believes in Allah and the Last Day either speak good or keep si Lent, and Let him who believes in Aifah and the Last Day be generous to his neighbour, and Let him who believes in Allah and the Last Day be generous to his guest\
 The past example of USSR (but the same is true anywhere else in the world) has shown that those will win politically who have the “cadres", the political manpower This was the reason vhy Lenin’s bolsheviks managed to "eat" the mensheviks, the SR, Kerensky, and others during the interim period after the Russian Revolution.
 Soviet political failure in Afghanistan can be dated back among other things from the time they failed to create a proper united and disciplined Afghan communist party. Incidentiy it is not the Afghan children and youths they are desperately training in USSR now who are going to be a danger In 60 years they have not managed to train reliable Central Asian communists, why should they suca»4 with the Afghans who are a great deal more unrully than Central Asian Turks! (The students who in Alma Ata were all komsomol members, ie supposedly communists - so much for the efficiency of Soviet indoctrination )
 This idea which is sometimes advanced that the Soviet Union may wish to divide Afghanistan in two - North and South of the Hindukush, annexing the North - is also baseless The Russians are not suicidal and this would be the quickest and surest way to suicide in Central Asia. (It is not for nothing that at the beginning of the invasion some Soviet Muslim communists were very keen on the annexation of Afghanistan By this they hoped that with the addition of some 15 million Afghans to their rank, they would have a greater bargaining power towards Moscow and greater weight in the internal policies of USSR.)
 Another lesson from the past which Vestern media too often forgets, is that the Russians have never hesitated before to abandon their conquests when the stakes were too high or vhen pressures at home made it too dangerous to indulge in foreign adventures. As an example just for the Soviet period. Kars and Ardahan in 1918 now part of Turkey, Ghilan, Azerbaijan and Gorgan in 1921, Singkiang in 1935-36, Iranian
AFBHRN HEUS 001.1 It, HO.B, 15/4/ 19B7 PAGE 7
Kurdistan and Azerbaijan in 1945. and of course Einland. Poland and Austria I believe that one of your strongest assets are the Soviet Muslims As I said earlier, problems in the Soviet Muslim territories are only just beginning, and in their own vay they will be as insoluble for the Russians as those in Afghanistan. The young generation of Soviet Muslims does not anymore fear that the Russians can annihilate them as their parents did. The Afhans have shown them that resistance is possible. They are young and dynamic facing an aging and dispirited Russian population, and there are by now 60 millions of them one in five Soviets is an ethnic Muslim.
In short I think the Resistance is now in a much stronger position than the Soviets. Equal dangers face them whether they try to hand on in Afghanistan or whether they leave. Whatever happens in the long run they will loose militarily and politically. What is more because of Afghanistan, one day they will also loose Central Asia.
                                        FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
It was a pleasant day in late September 1985. A large number of people had got together in a garden close to a big river The village was called Malaspa in the town of Bazarak in the Panj shir valley. The people had come there to listen to the verdict of the Mujahideen's Central Judge on a murder case. It was an outdoor court with traditional simplicity. The judge, culprit and the audience were sitting on the ground Armed Mujahideen were positioned in the area for security purposes.
Two months before, one Mujahid had killed another in a minor dispute. The murderer served in jail -while being interrogated. He pleaded guilty. The judge had to announce
his verdict in public.
Everybody was silent. The judge, who was an Islamic scholar of high caliber, rose and read the verdict from the paper.
The judge said that the man had admitted the crime and according to Islamic law the relatives of the murdered person can forgive or kill him How the life of a man who killed someone was at the hand of the father of the murdered one.
Elders, religious figures, ordinary Mujahideen rose one after the other and asked for mercy. It was an emotional moment. Finally commander Masood addressed the father of the murdered person and said," The ulema and elders said what was necessary to be said. Feel free and tell us about your decision, we all will be grateful if you forgive the man because Almighty Allah loves those who forgive” The whole drama reached its peak when a trembling old man rose He said "you asked me for mercy Because our country is at war against communists, I forgive the man who killed my son" He went to the murderer and kissed his face Tears came down from the faces of every body present and all together raised their voices to shout Allah-o-Akbar (the God is great).
This shows the power of Sharia (Islamic Lav) and the people's' obedience to it It also shows how the people forget personnel grievance for the sake of the cause of freedom.
                                       EVERYTHING FAKE
As a part of their propaganda campaign, the puppets announced the release of several thousand political prisoners. However, they made it clear that Mujahideen (those who opposed the occupation of Afghanistan by the Soviets actively) would not be released.
They got publicity for the so-called release of some prisoners but as soon as they were released from Pui-i-Charkhi Jail they were put into the army to fight against their countrymen. They were not allowed to meet their families and celebrate their release. A few old people could be an exception. There are also reports that a few young people who were deceived by the propaganda of the enemy and who went to see their families in Soviet controlled areas were pressganged into the army.________
flFOWRN NEUS Um..(ll, MO.6,    15/-*/  1987    PRGE  8
The regime announced they would pay 50,000 Afs. per family for the returnees from exile Some clever people returned through the normal routes, cashed 50,000 Afs. and came out through the mountainous routes
Like the regime it self all its promises are false and so are the results it gets.
                      AFGHANISTAN A BASE FOR SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
The occupation of Afghanistan is neither the first Soviet step towards the expansion of their empire nor ’will it be the last one. The Soviets have designs beyond the borders of Afghanistan, especially in the two Islamic countries of Iran and Paksitan.
According to informed sources of the Mujahideen, several parties opposing the Islamic Republic of Iran are based in Kabul and in the provinces bordering Iran The members' of these parties help the puppet regime and the regime in return, provides them with financial support, a base for their activities and free passage to the outside world.
So far we know the name of three of these parties. They are Todah, Fedayan-i -aksareyat ( a pro-Moscow Marxist party) and Paiwand These parties have disputes among themselves and work against each other. They complain about the conditions of life in Afghanistan and feel the-shadow of the Mujahideen everywhere.
It should be added that the puppet communist party in Afghanistan, had close connections vith the communists in Iran and India long before it seized power in Kabul and the Soviet Union provided them with contacts and helped their coordination.
If the communist regime in Afghanistan is consolidated, Soviet interference in the affairs of neighboring countries will intensify. The Soviets could provide assistance, training and planning to the communist elements in the countries neighboring Afghanistan through their puppets in Kabul. This way the Soviet puppets will spread the influence of communism in the area without the Soviets being directly involved. In case their agents fail in their missions the Soviets could intervene under the guise of "defending a friendly country against an imaginary imperialism aggression", the way they did in Afghanistan.
                              HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS CONDEMNED
In the middle of March, UN human Rights Commission on Afghanistan debated the last report prepared by Flex Ermacora. A resolution was passed in vhich the puppets were condemned for the violation of Human Rights in Afghanistan. 17 countries voted for the resolution and 8 against it. India and the Soviet Union were among those who voted against the resolution It seems that Rajiv is ready to take any hostile action against the Afghan people to please the Soviets.
                                 SOVIET GAINS FROM OUR FREEDOM
Some people argue that the Afghans should give something to the Soviets in return for their troops' withdrawal. The Soviet Union is a Super Power and without concessions it may not leave Afghanistan. Give and take are the logical parts of any deal.
To see whether this argument is valid or not, it is logical to look at the nature of the conflict. It will help us to know how far the Afghans can go without destroying their
cause.
Before the Soviet occupation, Afghanistan was an independent country, a member of the UN, the Islamic Conference and the NAM.The Soviets had recognized all these and had even signed several treaties with that country.
Afghanistan being a developing country had adopted a policy of good relationships