Vol 4. No 13
July I, 198$
Gailani sets
 90 days for
election
     IN his first press conference after assuming the position of the current chair man of the Alliance of the Afghan Mujahideen. Sayyed Ahmad Gaiiani has emphasized about holding general elections in
  Afghanistan and in the refugee camps for a national assembly.
     Sftyyed Ahmad Gallant is the leader of NIFA, one of the seven members of the A11 lance. He replaced Hekmatyar, the leader of Hezb Sstami and will hold the position for three months starting from June 15.
     In the same meeting which took place in the headquarters of the Alliance on June 19. a fourteen member cabinet of the interim government of the Mujahideen was also announced.
     Ahmad Shah the Prime Minister of the interim government introduced 12 ministers and two deputy prime ministers drawn from the seven parties which have formed the AH lance, Each party has Introduced two
 persons for the interim cabinet.
    The Supreme Council of the Alliance has decided to go ahead with the program of general elections for forming an assembly. However, some of the parties within the Alliance see practical difficulties in holding general elections inside Afghanistan. These parties, and jsmi at is one of them, are afraid that if elections inside face problems the mult of elections in the refugee camps will give a false picture of the strength cf the parties.
    During the chairmanship of Gailani, Ccrdoves will resume hi# efforts to form a broad-toed government in Afghanistan. He has outlined his plan in the form of holding a so-called Loya Jirga and involvement of the ex-king, This proposal will suke the position of some parties including NIFA of which Gailani is its leader and will face rejection by others.
    Observers are afraid that Mr, Cordovea's efforts will further divide Afghans , The three months that Gailani will be the chairman of the Aiiisuice is a critical time, in this per led most of the Soviets are supposed to withdraw and great changes in the military Held are expected.
     THE Mujahideen will provide security for the UN observer team whenever it is possible, said the Jami'at leader in a press conference held on June 20,
     Prof. R&bbam however said it is the duty of the Soviets and the puppet regime to provide security for the UN personnel in the occupied areas of Afghanistan.
     He warned that the puppet regime may harm the UN personnel and put the blame cm the Resistance,
     The UN has a 25-man observer team In Kabul. The head of the team had & meeting with the leaders of the Resistance and they assured him of their support.
     The UN team is using an Mi'S Russian helicopter which is painted white and hears the mark of the UN to be recognized by the Resistance. The white dove of the UN is unarmed.
     Soviet helicopters have been responsible for deaths or thousand of Afghans, If the donated helicopter is not brand new it might have been used in the killing of the people of Afghanistan A defenseless villager enee said the harshest sound to him was the noise of Helicopters. Now UN people say although their helicopter is made in Russia and possibly participant in the aggression, it has converted into a peace dove.
AIGBANevc Volt Ho 15, July 1,1968, Page2
      Faryab
     THE Mujahideen from janti at, during 12 days of fighting with communist forces which started on May 24 , killed or wounded more than iOQ soldiers and captured SO others.
   Twenty one soldiers from the puppet army also defected to the Mujahideen.
   The Mujahideen were able to set two arms depots on fire and destroy eight AFCs and trucks*
   The fighting started when joint Kussian-DRA forces launched an attack against the Mujahideen areas around the city of Maimana.
   The enemy forces which were supported by the air force launched their attacks on the Mujahideen positions in Balooch, Qutoor and Deh Sayyed villages which are located one to five kilometers east and south of Maimana city,
   The Mujahideen lost 25 persons and 30 others were injured. Fifteen villages were heavily damaged and more than 400 families become homeless due to the enemy air raids.
                                                   Herat
      • GHOORYAN district came under the control of the Mujahideen from Jamiat when the puppet regime withdrew its forces on June ninth after a long siege by the Mujahideen.
     Two soldiers were killed and seven others captured when the retreating enemy force came under Mujahideen attack. The enemy destroyed the historical fort which served as the district headquarters of the regime before leaving the area.
   0 The Mujahideen launched a rocket attack on the Fourth Armored Division of the enemy destroying some equipment and killing seven soldiers on June 12.
   On the same day the Mujahideen attacked the security posts of Shindand Airbase taking prisoner 12 soldiers and capturing six AK-47s,
                                                    BalfcJi
      THE Mujahideen from jam!’at ted by Khalil Khan attacked communist posts in Mannoo 1 village, killing eight Soviet soldiers along with their mine-detecting dog on M ay 21.
    The Mujahideen captured seven Kulinkov rifles from the enemy. One Mujahid was killed and five others injured during the operation.
     Gulbshar
     THE Mujahideen from jam i'at captured a DRA * garrison in Paymazar area of Gulbah&r at the mouth of Panjshir valley on June 23.
   The attack was launched at one O'clock in the morning and the garrison was captured within one hour.
   Forty two enemy soldiers were captured, eight killed and five others managed to escape.
   The Mujahideen captured the following items:
   •Two S2mm mortars
   •One ZPU anti-aircraft gun
   •One PK machine gun
   •Five RPG-7 rocket launchers
   •Fifty five Kalashinkow rifles
   •Two R-105 wireless sets
   •One thousand mortar shells
   ©Seventy thousand rounds of ammunition and ten tons of foodstuff.
   Commander Mohammad Saeed from Shotol led the operation and the Mujahideen from Panjshir, Shotol and Gulbah&r participated in the attack.
   One Mujahid was injured in the operation.
       Salsng
       IN three separate incidents in Salang valley the Mujahideen captured 54 Kaiashinfcov rifles, 2 PK machine guns and killed 25 soldiers and officers.
     On June 10, a number of the puppet regime's militiamen defected to the Mujahideen in Liwan, aside valley between Jabal Saraj and Saiang tunnel, bringing with them 40 Kaieshinkov riffes and two PK machine guns.
     On June 16, Soviet-DRA troops launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Liwan. The Mujahideen killed two Russian soldiers and one officer belonging to the puppet regime.
     On June 20, the Mujahideen ambushed a convoy of the puppet, police killing two soldiers and two officers, seizing 14
  News
from the battlefields
AI&HAHews Votl Ho 1% July 5,1938, Page3
Kalashinkov rifles and a PK machine gun. The Mujahideen also destroyed two jeeps and two trucks.
      Parw&si
    THE Mujahideen from Jam r at under the command of Shafa^s, wiped out about 20 posts which were located In 10 villages in Bagram district in a seven-day long operation starting from May 26, As a result, 20 soldiers were killed and 30 others wounded.
    The Mujahideen had besieged the posts several days before launching the final attack. The Mujahideen claim that they captured more than 100 light weapons, nine heavy weapons, three trucks and some foodstuff.
    The Mujahideen lost three men and six others were
 wounded.
                                                     Kabul
      •THE Mujahideen from jami at carried out an operation on the Kabul-Jalaiafead highway resulting in the blockade of the highway for three days starting from June 23 upto June 25,
    About 506 Mujahideen took part tn the operation which covered an area about , 26 kilometers along the highway,
    • In another attack On June 24, the Mujahideen destroyed three posts including a Command post in Dab ill area of Saroofei district. As a result, three tanks were destroyed and two jeeps were set on fire.
 The Mujahideen lost two men and four others were wounded.
    On the same day the Mujahideen destroyed three posts in Daragi area in which one tank and a truck were set on fire.
    • The Mujahideen raided BRA security posts in Sareofei Town, killing 12 enemy soldiers, destroying a Russian tank and damaging a KHAD building on June 12.
    •One BRA soldier surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jegdalik and two others were killed in a post on the Kabul-Jalalabad Highway on June 10.
    All the above operations were carried out under the command of Anwar Khan, the Jami’at Commander in Saroohi district about 40 kilometers east of the city of Kabul.
Who ’s who fit the M
Commander Shaheen
   COMMA MB Hi Sharif Shafcee®. 36. am unknown, bm very effective em&s&tfer of Jani at S&lassi in Capita province, wee bent is the village of Behhabi Is the center of the tmiftee. His father. Mahsuarasd Mir. was a jeer farmer working on ether teenies’ laad, Shaheen started to hef$ his father in collecting fire weed for the winter when he was seven years old.
    “His family was very poor, every body remembers the little bare-foot Sharif carrying wood on his back to store it for the winter/’ said his cousin in Peshawar,
   His father arranged just two years of schooling for him. Poverty deprived him of education.
   When the puppet
 Communist regime took power in 1$?&, Shaheen was busy in his poor Hfe trying tn find ways for living. Three months after the Communist coup he contacted the first Mujahideen group formed against the Communists in the area. “He become an ordinary Mujahid. He was doing two things; helping his family to survive and participating in the operations against the puppet regime/1 said his representative, Kftudsyar living in Peshawar, In a. very short time he proved to fee intelligent and a brave Mujahid.
    Shaheen came to Peshawar after about a year he started his work, met prof. Rahb&m and joined Jmi'M party. After nine months of stay in Pakistan in the late 1979 he went back to his area, formed a stronger group and established three bases in
  different strategic places
  near Bagr&m Airbase,
     Sagram Airbase was an easy operational target to Shaheen to capture more weapons from attacking Russl&a-BRA out-posts and bringing pressure on the enemy's supply lines.
  Shaheen1 s group gradually grew larger.
     Shaheen expanded his area of influence day by day. He contacted Commander Mascod and helped Masood s plan for the Shamati plains.
     He learned a great deal from the war," said his friend Mawlavl Alamshah. He survived at least three major attacks of the Soviet Army, the latest one in the winter of 19S5*
     Shaheen helped civilians by establishing a civil administration. He has opened some primary schools and one mobile nodical clinic.
     Personally Shaheen is a soft spoken and kind | individual. He is famous for ! being frank and honest. He is f-married.
  
  
  AFGHANews
             PO Box 264, Pwhsww-Pekistan Tel: 41381
 1 Editorial
                                                    Commanders1 meeting makes vital decisions
    THE decisive made by the fifth meeting ®f the commanders belonging to the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) will have far-reaching effects on the political and military developments in Afghanistan,
    The meeting which was held its Ferkhar valley itm June five to June i % was presided fey Commander Masood, the Chairman of the SCN and attended by delegates from tea provinces.
    SCN was formed as a part of JamJat's organization in November 1461 and since its creation has helped bring cooperation among the Mujahideen and has provided the ground for the training of the Mujahideen and the development of military and civil super structures is a large area of strategic importance.
    The military decisions of the meeting which include the formation of a regular army, talcing steps to move from a defensive phase to an offensive one. intensification of fighting against the enemy, training of officers and soldiers and reorganizing logistics systems will have a profound effect on the overall military situation.
    In Political and administrative fields, the creation of four zones, the implementation of Islamic Sharia in the liberated areas, the formation of a Council of elders and scholars, the format lea of a high court in each zone and the collection of a population census to help planning will consolidate the position of the Mujahideen among the people and give the achievement of the Resistance ^ permanent nature.
    Educational and cultural activities will pave the road for opening more schools, Installing a radio station and publishing a paper. !t will make the people able to learn and have access to infermation.
    Formation of the economic committee to help the refugees, increase farm products, cultivate mare land by digging new channels and repairing old ones mt& building road© and bridges Is a step forward towards self-sufficiency and the rehabilitation of the refugees and reconstruction of the country.
    The meeting of SCN is mking place when the Soviets have started withdrawing their forces from Afghanistan. This has changed the situation which requires a new approach and planning.
    The SCN meeting was of the view that the withdrawal of Soviet troops has created a new situation which will push" the Resistance to a new phase.lt believes that to move from a defensive phase to an offensive one, a new organizational structure is needed. Formation of the regular array is ons of the requirements.
 Since the work must be done with speed it exerts tremendous pressure on the SCN, especially Commander Mas cod who is the archit&cht of the system.
    As usual the SCN has taken proper steps In the fight direction. In the past, its success in the war against the enemy garrisons earned it good reputation. The people have believed what the SCN promised them and have fully cooperated to make It successful.
    In this critical time SCN has become the center hope for the people in an important area, ft is hoped SCN * call for bettor unity, raising the level of fighting against the enemy and invitation from the educated Afghans to participate In the reconstruction of their country will meet with a positive response,
    jam! at will do what it can to implement the decisions made fey the meeting or commanders coming from 16 provinces and hope that all the Mujahideen belong to other parties also cooperate with the SCN.
                                   Soviets involved in slave trade
   THE Soviets have started to sell puppet regime s soldiers and officers to the Resistance at a nominal price.
   Selling Communist soldiers have taken place in Baghiaa and Kunduz provinces after the withdrawal of Soviet troops started.
   Soviet soldiers were used to stealing spare tyres and other equipment and selling them st cheap prices.
   Now that they have a limited time in Afghanistan they want to make more money by selling the puppet soldiers and officers.
ArGHANews 7ol4, Ho 13, July 1,1988, Page 5
     Commanders from ten provinces approve future plans
    THE fifth meeting of the commanders, of the Supervisory Council of the North (SCN) concluded after important decisions were made about future course of action in military and political fields.
    The meeting which was presided over by Commander Masood discussed the latest developments in Use country in a friendly and cordial atmosphere. The meeting which started on June fifth and continued for eight days was held in Ferfchar valley.
    In this historical Meeting, Commanders from the provinces of Badakhshan, T&khar, Kunduz, Baghlan, Samangan, Banyan, Perwan, Kapisa, Laghmaa and North of Kabul participated.
    The meeting listened to the reports presented by each Commander about his last year's achievements and problems. The military and political developments in the country was discussed in detail. The meeting reached a number of important decisions in different fields.
     The meeting agreed to Implement Sharia in the areas contrasted by SCN,
     In order to bring better coordination and cooperation among the Mujahideen it was decided to divide the areas controlled by SCN into lour mats..
     •      Northern zone which will cover the provinces of Ssmangan, Balkh, Jauzja® and Faryab.
     *      North-Eastern zone which will include provinces of Badakhshaa, Baghlan, Takhar and Kunduz.
     •Central zone which will include K&pisa, Bamyan and North of Kabul,
                                                                                              •Eastern zone which includes Laghman, Tag&b,
 Neijrafe (two district of Kapisa province) and East and South-East of Kabul,
    The meeting resolved to form a council of elders and religious ieaders.its purpose is to give opportunities to the people belonging to different walks of life to particiapte in running the affairs of their country.
     To be able to plan, the need for reliable statistics was felt by the Council, The meeting approved the plan to carry out a population census in the liberated zones.
     A high court of justice will be formed is each zone.
    In the field of the education it was decided to form a separate education committee to make sure that the children get proper education. Until now the Cultural Committee was responsible for running schools in addition to other cultural activities.
     In the military field the Council approved the plan to form an Islamic army.
 The decision was made to increase the level of fighting against the enemy.
     Now that more areas are liberated a transportation committee will be formed to organise transportation by vehicles. This will help both military as well as civilian programs.
     On the cultural field it was decided to start publishing a paper and install a radio stall cm as soon as the equipment is available.
     To help the people economically > it was decided to take proper steps to . increase farm products, bring unused land under cultivation, build roads and bridges and construct new
 water channels and improve the conditions of the existing ones. To achieve the above aims, an economic and reconstruction committee will be established.
    The Health Committee will expand its work in all the areas controlled by the Council.
    The meeting has invited all the educated people living outside the country to return to the country and serve their people.
    The meeting passed a number of resolutions concerning different political and military issues;
    •The SCN categorically rejects the Geneva accord which disregards the sacred blood of the martyrs of Islamic Revolution, it also disregards the authenticity and independent character of the Afghanistan jehad and Mujahideen.
    •    The SCN demands from the Russian leadership to desist from any kind of support to the puppet Kabul regime while withdrawing the troops,
    ® The SCN categorically rejects alt the political maneuvers, hand-picked Jergas , puppet parliaments and coalition governments—all of which are plots by Communist imperialism and desperate attempts to ensure the survival of the puppet regime ia Kabul.
    •    The SCN earnestly requests all the battle-field fronts, ail the Muiahid brothers, and all the Muslims of Afghanistan to urgently unite their ranks. They should gather together regardless of political, ethnic, regional and organizational distinctions. That will prepare the grounds for the faster liberation of the country, restoration of its
  
  
 establishment of an Islamic government,
   *   The SON emphasises that the heroic Mujahideen will continue their attacks on enemy bases until the establishment of the Islamic government,
   •   The SCM wants to ensure the national unity, safeguard the territorial integrity, and restore the non-aligned character of the Islamic Afghanistan, ft will not tolerate division of Afghanistan under any name or form.
   •The SCN strongly rawest* all those who are working with the puppet regime and have remained in the ranks of the enemy for various reasons to contact the SCN’s underground network and extend their sincere cooperation.
   •the SCN unanimously proclaims its full support of the wise leadership of Prof, Burhanuddln Rabbani in accordance with jXA's Principles of Allegiance” and Character of Goals " which are based on the teachings of Islamic Sharia. It wants continuation of jehad under his leadership.
                                      Five refugee students
                                                                                 drowned
    IXVS students from : Sarwe® district of Bad«fetobm province droimedinAtNesin River oner Kheiretbed
           Afghans gains worry
              Soviet leaders
   HEK Huiahidsoa^ military ^ political victories after the Soviets started to withdraw tlieir troops have 'married the Soviets and as a tionseguence of that the pace of troop withdrawal has stowad and the Soviet war eetMtias against the Sesistaftce have iwmml, soli tha Jurat loader is a
     The students studied inaMedressein Afcora-i-KhAtafc on Peshawar- Islamabad road.
     Due to hot weather, the students vent to swim in the river hut they veredrovned. Their bodies hove not been found.
 hetti o& Jwe SO.
    Prof. Rabbani said that the late military victories of the Mujahideen have been remarkable.
    He said that the Geneva accord, as predicted by the Mujahideen, did not bring peace. This accord has facilitated the withdrawal of a smalt portion of Soviet forces but their air force which has been a major element in the war against the Afghan people, has not been withdrawn.
    Soviet planes fly from their bases inside the Soviet territory to bomb their targets in Afghanistan. Such raids have been carried out recently in Samangan and Farysb provinces in the North of Afghanistan.
    The Soviets hoped that the signing of the Geneva accords would lead te the elimination of the Resistance and the return of the refugees to the "Kabul slaughter house." However, contrary to the expectations of the enemy, the Resistance emerged stronger and the refugees did not return, said Prof. Rabbaai.
    The jams'at leader was of the opinion that the receht Russian propaganda which accuses Pakistan of violating the Geneva accords might he an indication of Russian
 plans to continue their aggression against Afghanistan.
   He said that what was going on in the battlefields of Afghanistan did not have anything to do with Pakistan.
   Concerning positive political developments at home, Prof, Rabbani, mentioned the big meeting of the commanders in the North which was held in the first week of June,
   He also mentioned a recent meeting of the commanders of Jttsi'at in Logur and a meeting which is going to be held soon in the West of Afghanistan, Prof, Rabbani Indicated that the recent announcement of the interim government of the Mujahideen was a victory for the Resistance and a sign of greater cooperation among different parties.
    Rajiv's remarks that the Mujahideen government was a threat to peace, was rejected by Prof. Rabbani. He said that the Mujahideen government which will come to power in accordance with the aspirations of Afghan people will not pose any threat to the region. This government will seek good relationship with all the countries and focus on rebuilding Afghanistan,
    The security of the region has been endangered by the Soviet aggression and expansionist policies of Rajive and his late mother, added Prof. Rabbani,
   The jaml at leader said: “however, we differentiate between the policies of Rajiv and the views of the Indian people with whom Afghans have had a traditional and cordial relationship/
   Prof. Rabbani believed that Ccrdovez's mission to form a broad-based government will fail because it is now too late.

  -----------  APGHANe-ws Vol4, So 13- July 1,1968, Pago? |
  ------------ ------------— ----------—i
         Schools open in Pan) shir as garrisons close
      THE authorities in Panjshir feel the need for intensive education activities after the liberation of the valley. To do this they need support.
      A representative of Panjshir valiey has come to seek help to expand ; educational activities in the valley after its liberation,
      Mir Hussain who arrived Peshawar through the newly-opened Northern route says that he has been sent by the Educational Committee of the valley to take books, stationary, audio-visual aides and printing materials to the valley to enable expansion of the work.
      Mir Hussain says that educational activities Inside the valley have been intensified since fast summer, So far nine schools have been opened. According to him, the students do not have enough text books.
   These books have been printed on a duplicating machine from the samples printed by the Mujahideen in Pakistan.
      Concerning educational ' activities among the Mujahideen, Mir Hussain said that they show a keen interest in learning and last year 90% of all the Mujahideen were busy in different educational activities, Those Mujahideen who could not read and write have started to learn reading and writing.
      in addition to reading and writing the Mujahideen also show keen interest in memorising the Holy Quran and learning about religious subjects.
      The Education Committee in Panishir which is based in Peryfui also publishes a I paper, called Neda-i-Jehad "The call for Jehad." This
 paper has been published since i960 but some times the war has disrupted its publication.
    This fortnightly paper is published in Persian and is distributed inside the valley and the neighboring areas.
 Due to shortages of paper and other printing materials it is limited to 215 copies, each copy Is composed of three or four pages.
    Mir Husain says that the Education Committee in the valley has ambitious programs to expand its activities by establishing new schools and improving the conditions of present schools. To do this job, books and stationary are needed. School buildings must be built and teachers should be supported. Teachers who Uve in Pakistan will be encouraged to return to the valley and help promotion of the program,
    The Committee has decided to open a religious boarding school in the valley. It is also planned to intensify literacy program and improve the quality of the paper it publishes.
    The Committee is fully aware of the positive effect of audio-visual aid for the students. It hopes to get tape-recorders and video-players to Increase the general understanding of the public and students in the valley.
    When the Council of the Commanders of Paajsfair was convened in late 1987, Commander Masood criticised the local organization for lack of progress in the education field, In that . meeting it was derided to intensify activities for opening more schools and encouraging the Mujahideen to
 learn reading and writing.
 This decision gave a new spirit to the educational activities in the valley.
    It should be mentioned here that educational activities in the valley have been continuing parallel to military activities, in 1980 there were tens of schools all ever the valley and one of these schools in Rukha had about i ,000 students.
 ; Heavy aerial bombardments and continuous offensives displaced a large portion of the population of the valley and disrupted schooling. But the idea of opening schools, having libraries and publishing papers have always been alive and wherever it was possible the job has been re-started.
    Now that the valiey Is liberated, resumption of large -scale educational activities has become possible. If what the Committee needs is provided the progress in the field of education will be eye-catching.
    Commander Masood has invited a fact-finding delegation of relief organizations to the Panjshir valley after its liberation.
    The team will see the valley which is totally devastated and discuss ways of helping the people to resume their normal life.
    Most of the villages in the | valley are totally destroyed. Irrigation channels need to be repaired. Cattle have to be brought into the valley to resume farming. People should be helped in build houses.
    The response of the relief organizations have been positive towards the Invitation and they are discussing it.
 -------------- AEGHiKBw vail No 13, July t, 1988. Fogs6 ;
         Victory emerges from rubble of historic Herat city
    THE situation in Afghanistan today has really very little to do with the most common reporting. 1 travelled through seven provinces of Afghanistan while the negociations in Geneva went through their final phase and the documents were signed. Nowhere did I meet expectations that peace would soon be at
 hand.
    The fact that the Soviets ere leaving to* of csurge celebrated m a victory, hut everybody is aware that the Soviets have left their deadly tccL the Hafife regime.
    All responsible Mujahideen leaders believe that the war-torn country has a long way to go until the five million refugees can safely return.
    In some respects the war has got even tougher. living conditions have deteriorated to the limits of famine and the Afghan government pilots that are now manning the jet bombers considered to be even more cruel than their Soviet masters.
    I followed one of the most important supply routes for the Mujahideen in the Northern provinces, from Ghazni in the South, through Hazarajat. Helmand valley, Ghor mountains to the Herat plain.
    When 1 reached the Herat plain it was already spring and the almonds were blossoming, i met many of my
 Stefan Lindgren
 friends from a stay in the same area in late 1985. A few of them had been killed, but Ismael Khan s jam!'at forces were mostly intact and reinforced.
   Ismael claims to be Amir of all Western Afghanistan, and says ho has 20,000 Mujahid in arms,
   Many things had changed fundamentally since my last stay there,
   ■ Ail guerrilla forces are now equipped with modern shortwave communication radios,
   •    The helicopters are practically gone, I only saw them on two occasions and the reason is simple. After a few hits with Stinger missiles the enemy Quickly changed their tactics. Now bombardments with jet fighters from a high altitude is prevailing. Any village from which a rocket is fired has to expect jet attacks which occur practically every day.
   •     The systematic artillery bombardments of the Western Herat plain is continuing on a full scale, with the only difference that the Afghan government forces are more active now and the Soviets less.
   But the most surprising new development occurred to me when I was picked up In one of Herat's Eastern suburbs with a government jeep and was taken all through the the city-passing the governors palace. Hotel Herat where the Soviet advisors families stay as well as the military airport.
   The jeep was driven by a chauffeur well-known to .the Afghan and Soviet soldiers patrolling this road which connects the Soviet border and Herat with Kandahar. We were
 never stopped. Before continuing to a place Southwest of the city we made a short stop at the militia headquarters.
    The militia in Herat, which was negleglblc two years ago, has now become a considerable force playing a high double game. According to Mujahideen sources three fourths of the militia secretly cooperate with the Resistance.
    All of the big militia leaders are former Mujahideen, who went over to the government a few years ago. But the balance shifts again now the Soviets are leaving and the mi litia leaders have renewed their old loyalties. No matter how many Mujahideen they have killed in the meantime they and their guns are welcomed by Ismael Khan.
    The chauffeur I was going with was working for one militia leader who alone had supplied the jamiat forces with more than one thousand Katashinkovs.
    I was taken to this militia leader's guest house, built to please Soviet officers.
 In a luxurious room with electric iight from diesel engines ! met a young guerrilla hoy who had been hit by seven bullets in his chest. He was hit when he tried to blow up a Soviet tank on the highway.
    "But the militia saved me," he told me, "They took me to the Soviet hospital and told the Soviet surgeons that 1 was a reliable militiaman. So the surgeons did their very best and saved my life."
    Thanks to the shift in the militia loyalties, Ismael Khan now has better access to the city itself, and all the surrounding villages.
   This more than            I
 compensates him for the     j
 losses made in his own      \
 stronghold, the Western Herat. 1
 plain. There his forces have j
 been repeatedly attached    j
 with huge Infantry force® and daily shellings and bombings. The government has tried to erect five “Kamerbands" security belts to cut off ail traffic from Western Herat province and Iran.
   But thanks to efforts by the thousands of Mujahideen, mostly teenagers, most of these security belts have been broken up, mine by mine, tank by tank, trench fey trench. Now only the first security belt, at the very city gate, and parts of the second remains to be broken up.
   At the Mujahideen hospital I saw again my friend, doctor Nur Gut, who still has the world record for amputations. He has cut off more than five hundred wounded feet, mostly injured by mines. He told me that his hospital had been levelled to the ground three limes since 1 was last there.
    Now the hospital staff were d igging false bomb craters in the surroundings to mislead the reconnaissance aircrafts, And they were planning to build an underground hospital, if they could only coup with the high j water table on the plain. j On the Herat plain a few pieces of land that were lying I barren two years ago were now j tilled, not by returning civilian, but by starving Mujahideen.
   The prices of rice and j mutton have more than doubled, and since all people with government connections have coupons and thereby free food you could call this an economic warfare against the Resistance and the civilians outside government control.
    The herds of sheep, for which Herat, was once famous, have now shrunk and almost disappeared. The foodstuff sold inside Herat city is mostly imported from
Af&HAHem Vert'4, Mo 13, July 1,1988, Page 9
 Pakistan and sold at very high prices.
   This problem could become a decisive one for the Resistance, People starving can easily be subdued by the Najlfe administration which has all the money machines. Hadn't it been for the obvious crack within the regime itself forecasts would be gloomy.
   One striking change I noticed West of Herat was that the supply convoys, asses and mules with munitions, were no longer going from Iran to Herat. Now they go from the government depots in Herat to the Western parts of the province.
   Except for a few Stingers J saw in the mountains South of Herat Ismael Khan is now completely dependant on government sources for arms and munitions.
   He told me that most of the government officers in letters and with secret couriers have declared their loyalty with Mujahideen and promised they will come over as soon as the Soviets are out.
   Already two years ago I noticed that on some hours of the day. mostly praying hours government posts do not shoot on the Mujahideen. And in some places they never shoot.
    In Ghurian , a city close to the Iranian border with a population of 30,000 people almost completely free, the government posts answered most reluctantly with one shell when Gholam Qaus, a Mujahideen commander, repeatedly fired with artillery.
Stefan Lindgern is a Swedish free-lance journalist who has travelled to Herat twice and has written many article about his trip.
    Gulf war blocks way to Mecca
                                                                                    by Abdul was
    THE deterioration of a normal relationship between the two Islamic countries of Iran and Saudi Arabia was a sad development.
    The dispute over the number of psigrtmes to the Holy Land led to the decision of Iran not to send any one to this year's Haj. This was a sad development indeed!
    No doubt the two countries have different views on the Gulf war but they have had these differences since the war started and it was not stopping people performing Haj.
    The tragedy of Mecca which led to death of about 400 person in the Holy city was a shocking incident for the Muslims all over the world. After that incident the Muslims were expecting that the two Islamic countries of Saudi Arabia and Iran try to find way® to avoid the recurring of the tragedy but no one was expecting the sad news of not participation of Irani Haj is during the current season.
    The Organization of Islamic Conference, Islamic scholars and governments must have tried to stop the situation to develop to this stage and now they should do everything to defuse it.
    Afghans feel sad about this unpleasant development between the two countries. They hope this situation should end soon and the root of the dispute, the Gulf war, should come to an end. This will only happen when the dispute is judged based on Islamic principles rather than involving the big powers who try to exploit the situation for their own interest.
Vo! 4, No 14                                   J“ly 15, 198*
Soviets seek release of war prisoners
    THE Soviet government has launched an extensive campaign to free the soldiers captured t>Y the Resistance ^without paying anything in return.
    After the Soviet troops started to pull out of Afghanistan on May 15, the Soviet officials stated that 311 of their soldiers have been unacounted for and are possibly held by the Resistance.
    The Soviet leaders approached the US government and neighbouring countries to make use of their influence in releasing the Soviet POWs.
    They try to give this issue an acute humanitarian appearance by involving scholars, womens' organizations and religious bodies in the campaign launched for the purpose of releasing their soldiers.
    No doubt the families of the missing soldiers are putting pressure on the Soviet government to know about their missing members , but the way the Soviet leadership . is handling the problem does not leaid to a good end.
    First of all the problem of prisoners of war is usually discussed when the conflict itself has come to an end. In Afghanistan the conflict still continues and there is no ceasefire agreement. If the people of the Soviet Union
  think that their war has come to an end they are mistaken and again misled by their leaders.
     Secondly while the concern of the Soviets about the release of their soldiers is understandable they should not forget that the Soviet army has been responsible for the killing, missing and imprisonment of thousands of Afghans.
     The people of Afghanistan do not know what has happened to tens of thousands of Afghans. These missing people had families and friends who are concerned too. More than that they were innocent victims not invaders.
     If the Soviets expect anything to be done about their missing soldiers they should also provide information about the missing Afghans. This is possible when they deal dirtily with the Resistance.
     The Soviets have chosen President Ziaas a means to put pressure on the Resistance. President Zia is respected by the Mujahideen, they consider him their Muslim brother.No doubt President Zia is very concerned about the suffering of the Afghans! How could he be less concerned about his missing brothers than missing soldiers belonging to an invading force?
   In the past, the Afghan Resistance have taken one-sided humanitarian steps by letting of some of the Soviet soldiers choose between free life outside the Soviet Union or return to their homeland. As a result of this five soldiers returned to the Soviet Union in 1935.
   The late allegation of the Soviet officials that about 100 of their missing soldiers have been shot dead by the Resistance or killed by torture is no more chan fabrication. They do not have any proof for their claim while the Resistance has shown its human face by treating the captured soldiers properly.
                                      Soviets
                                     continue
                                   aggressive
                                      policy
   THE Soviets* late statements that their intervention in Afghanistan was a mistake does not show that they have abondoned their aggressive policy towards small neighboring states. The criticism is about the cost of the invasion, not denouncing it a& an aggressive act.
   In an article carried out by daily Isvestia in mid-June , a Soy let analyst writes that as a result of the intervention the Soviet Union has suffered a tremendous moral and material loss.
   The world will be happy if the Soviets denounce tbe invasion of Afghanistan and. compensate for the losses they have inflicted on the people.
AF&BAHsvs ?oi 1 Ho H, July 15,1986, Pag® 2
 •MM
                                                   Kabul
    THE Mujahideen from Jam!1 at led by Commander Anvar Khan blocked the Kabul-Jalalabad route for three days and destroyed tour enemy posts from which they took prisoner IS soldiers, seized H Kalashiafcov rifles and three heavy machine guns on July d. More than 30 j enemy soldiers were either j killed or wounded.
    Although the posts which | were located along the route ware encircled by mine-fields, the Mujahideen were able to hit them with heavy artillery,
    On the same day the Mujahideen attacked two other posts and destroyed 6 APCs and two artillery positions. The Mujahideen lost four men in the operation which lasted for a whole day. They also iost 12 mules which were killed during the fighting,
    •The Mujahideen fought OKA forces In Shakardara destroying five enemy trucks including an AFC, capturing five Kaiashinke? rifles, a Ourinov machine gun and killing or wounding 30 militiamen on June 23-The fighting started at a time when a 1>RA military convoy consisting of 30 tanks and armoured vehicles moved into the district in an attempt to reinforce the district posts which were under the Mujahideen seige since 60
 days,
    The enemy was forced to retreat from the area but later the they bombed the district which resulted in the killing of 13 residents and the destruction of some houses,
 The operation was carried out under the command of Mullah Taj Mohammad, one of jam fat's Commanders in Shakardara district.
                                                      Herat
     •THE Mujahideen from Jami'st under the commend of Abdul Aziz, destroyed six enemy posts around Shiodand air base, capturing four mortars, five heavy machine guns, 35 Kzlashinkov rifles and taking prisoner 16 soldiers including three officers on June 11.
    Later the Hussions launched retaliatory air raids In which they bombed a number of villages and burnt i huge amount of crops,      j
    One Muj&hid was killed and two residents were wounded in the bombing.
    • The Mujahideen led fey Commander Fazel Ahmad attacked DRA border posts in Gurg Abad area resulting in the blockade of supply line to the posts on June 15= Eighty five soldiers from the posts surrendered to the Mujahideen bringing with them 60 light weapons.
  In the fighting, the enemy lost eight soldiers and 15
j others were injured.
                                           The Mujahideen iost two
men,
                                                Wardak
   THE Mujahideen occupied the provincial capital, Maidan, for H hours after they launched an operation in which they pushed the BRA forces out of the capital, on June 26,
   According to an eyewitness, the Mujahideen captured the city which is 30 kilometers from Kabul at a time when ail the DRA forces were under heavy artillery fire fey Mujahideen which forced the enemy out.
   The Mujahideen kept the city under their control for a whole day and left the next day after seizing 150 weapons and great amounts of amunition and food left by the enemy forces. The enemy air force launched a series of air strikes around the capital and recaptured the city.
   The Mujahideen lost three men and some others wore wounded.
   Before the fighting started the people around the city quitted the area, therefore no life casualties on civilians were inflicted.
   The operation was carried out by Jami'at and Hezfe Islami Including some other Mujahideen units.
                                               Kandahar
   THE Mujahideen commanded by Mullah Naqife clashed with an enemy convoy destroying three tanks and four APCs killing or wounding 30 soldiers on June 25«
   The convoy which was attacked fey Mujahideen in Baba Sahib Pass was moving towards Arshandafe district in an attempt to resupply the besieged posts there. After two hours of fighting the the convoy was forced hack from the area.
                                          Five Mujahideen were killed and 10 others were
ATCHAHsw ¥ol4. Ho 14, July 15,1988, Page 5
                                        Injured In the operation,
                                           Nangarhar
   THE Mujahideen from Jam i at liberated Lai Poor sub-district in Nangarhar province capturing 30 Kalashinkov rifles, two mortars and two Gorinov machine guns on June 20,
   The operation was conducted by a large group of Mujahideen led by Commander Wall Khan Karookhail,
   The Mujahideen also captured some important documents belonging to the puppet regime,
                                             Faryab
    THE Mujahideen from Jamlat clashed with D8A units around Faryab city killing 25 soldiers including an officer and capturing five Kalashiakov rifles and destroying two APCs on June 15.
    In retaliation the enemy bombed a number of houses killing more than 20 residents and destroying some houses.
    The Mujahideen lost one man and four others were wounded in the operation which lasted for three hours. Different units of BRA forces including Samiaoy (paramilitary unit) and militiamen had taken part in the fighting.
                                       wwwBHBwwwmm minimiiiim
                                       Children die of heat stroke in refugee camps
    TENS of refugee children and elderly persons died during June because of heat stroke and lack of drinking water
    Since June doctors have recorded eight cases of death in Shams hate, six in Afcora Khatafc and four in Munda camps. The victims are mainly children.
who "s who in the Mujahideen
Commander Khan Agha
   KHAW Agha34, vas born in the Tillage of Qaia-e-Murad Beg in the district of Shakar Bara, a northern suburb of the city of Kabul. His father, Khen B&baAyas a farmer working throughout of his life in Qalai Murad Beg on the farm and sometimes in the city as a manual worker.
    Khan Aghas father did not want to send his son to school. He wanted him to help the family.
 But later he changed his mind and sent him to the Qaiad Murad Beg school.
    After completing, his high school, Khan Agha joined Kabul Nursing School.
    In 1972 he completed Nursing School and started working in Aliabad Hospital In Kabul. For six years he worked there and then he was transferred to Samang&n province to work in the Kluilm Hospital.
    By now Khan Agha was called Dr. Khan Agha, After two year^ of work in Kbuim he was transferee to Full Khumri district of Baghlaa province in 1978.
    When the Communists took power he was still working in Fail Khumri.
    “Three months after the Communist coup. Khan Agha left his job as a doctor and went to the mountains of Behani Ghuri (a sub-district of Baghlan) to join the first j small groups formed against the Communists," said his cousin who lives in Peshawar, They formed a group and attacked the office of the sub-district in Be han I GhurL The office was captured , two government officers were killed and seme weapons were seized.' said his representative In Peshawar. A month later tbs puppet regime
 launched an offensive and recaptured the area.
    “No one had experience in the beginning, everything was disorganized. No one knew what to do as far as organizational work was concerned/ said a wounded friend who worked with Khan Agha in 1978-79.
    Khan Agha came to his own village in Shakar Data 15 kilometer North of the city of Kabul
    Khan Agha formed his own group of Mujahideen, He started to ambush government convoys on the Satang highway which passes throng the area. In a short time, he became a known commander.
    In the fall of 1931 Khan Agha made a trip to the Panjshir valley to meet Commander Masood.
    Khan Agha came to Peshawar in 1988 in order to brief Prof. Rabbani. the leader of jami&t islami, regarding his activities. He returned after four months slay in Peshawar to Shakar Bara,
    In the last six years Khan Agha has worked very hard to establish a better organization.
    He has survived many Russian offensives. In the summer of 1986- he was able to capture around 10 out-posts during three weeks of operation, Khan Agha was also able to establish a central base at Bolianaand expand operational zones up to Karaiz Mir and Hazara Baghal which is about three kilometers from the city of Kabul.
    In 19S6 Khan Agha exchanged a Russian soldier with two Mujahideen who were imprisoned by them. Khan Agha was wounded once. He is married and has two children.
 ATSHAHevs Vol 4, So 14, July 15,1988, Page 4
   AFGHANews
               FO Box 264, Pesfeewe^Pakistaa. Tel: 41381
i
  Editorial
    UN Mediator resumes mission for forming broad-based government
   Mr, Corctoveg, the UN special envoy on
                          Afghanistan, has resumed his activities to pave
 the way for forming a broad-based
 government in Afghanistan, bui it is believed
 that his mission has little chance of success.
   Mr. Cordovez who acted as tine personal representative of the UN General Secretary was the architect of the Geneva accords signed on March H,
   The accord was signed fey the government of Pakistan and the puppet regime in Kabul and guaranteed by the two superpowers of the US and the USSR,
   This accord gave Mr. Cordovas the mission to continue his efforts for forming a broad-based government in Afghanistan and his present trip to the area, is based on that recommendation.
   Although MrXordovea says that he does not have any specific proposals for finding a solution to the problem, he has outlined his personal way of thinking in an article published in the Washington Post and during his trip he repeated some of the mam points of his thinking,
   Cordovez is thinking of holding a toya jifga "grand assembly" inside Afghanistan and wants to involve some people whom he call independent Afghans1, an indirect reference to the ex-king and people similar to him.
                          Holding the assembly inside Afghanistan, according to Mr. Cordovas, gives is legitimacy which nobody can challenge.
   Mr. Cor doves has indicated that the Soviets are concerned about the stability of the regime in Kabul and possibly have given support lor his line of thinking.
   The Mujahideen see little chance of progress in forming a broad-based government based on the efforts of Mr. Cordovez. The Resistance is not ready to enter any kind of deal with the Communist regime in Kabul and reaching an agreement to form a representative assembly from both sides seems impractical.
   More than that the regime is not ready to dismantle its army and secret police. Any thing less than that will be accepting the so-called National Reconciliation of the regime which has been rejected by the Mujahideen.
   Cord oven's assessment that Afghans will be forced t© -compromise after signing the Geneva accords has turned out to be inaccurate and his hopes that this will happen after Augest 15 when half of the Soviet troops have ieft the country does not have a sound basis.
    War drops level of farm products
    AN agricultural survey carried out by the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan shows that due to the war situation agricultural products in Afghanistan have dropped to one third
 of the pre-war level.
    A survey of the agricultural conditions in Afghanistan was carried out by tile Swedish Committee during 1987. It was headed by Dr. Asam G-ui, former professor at the agri cultural institution of Kabul university.
    The results are based up©a interviews with 11,000 farmers in Afghanistan and among newly arrived refugees in Pakistan.
    The survey shows that both yields and area cultivated by specific farmers have declined t© an extent, that an these two counts alone the production compared with 1978 has fallen to 46% in I9S6 and 52% in 1967, It should .however, tee noted that these figures do not take abandoned farms into account; i.e„ all those farms left uncultivated by farmers who became refugees, A rough estimate is consequently that the agricultural production in Afghanistan has fallen to one third of its prewar level.
    Furthermore, the use of fertilizer has declined severiy, and although the survey has evidence which is not yet analyzed, it appears that the genetic potential of wheat seed has deteriorated substantially.
AISSANn? Vcl4. Soli July 13,1908, Page3
     !
 Editorial
n
J
   The uncompromising attitude of the Resistance towards the puppet regime is the result of tea years performance of the Communists as the vanguard of invading forlege force. Part of the present complication is the result of a one-sided Geneva accord drafted by Mr, Cordovez in which a nation who gave enormous sacrifices was ignored.
   Despite the possible good intentions of Mr. Cordovez the Afghans do not find themselves is a position to expect anything good from an arrangement which professed a hand of murderers in Kabul as £h© legitimate gover nmosn of Afghanistan,
   As far as the Soviets and their puppet regime are concerned they will welcome Mr. Cordovez s Idea because it suits their policies of National Reconciliation and & coalition government. They have been parties to the Geneva accords and support to Mr, Cordovez s present mission suites their politics! game. But in no way are the Communists ready to agree with an arrangement which will take from them the dominating role they are trying to preserve for themselves,
   Mr, Cordoveg tried to highlight H% meeting with Afghan Mujahideen leaders based in Iran, Although we do not knew exactly what went on in that meeting but we knew that, all Afghans are united in refecting any deal with the puppet regime,
   The historical mistake of excluding the Afghan Resistance from the Geneva accord has killed any chance of a political solution to the present crisis in Afghanistan,
 The only option that remains is the armed confrontation which will end the Communist regime, and the fall of the puppet regime will mark the beginning of a political process which will pave the road for the formation of a stable government in a liberated Afghanistan.
                                                          290innocents become victim of US missiles
   THE shooting down of m Iranian civilian airplane by the US forces stationed in the Gulf was a great tragedy. In this incident 290 innocent people from different countries were killed.
   This incident could be compared to the shooting down of & Libyan airliner by Israel over Sinai and the shooting <krwn of Korean civilian air craft by the Russians.
   The Americans' explanation can not change the fact that they are responsible for the deaths of so many people. Neither the political differences vith the Islamic Republic nor the military sbxnr between the US forces and Iran can in any toy decrease the scale of the crime that has been committed.
   Jaoii'at condemns the shooting down of the Iranian airliner and condoles wh ail those who lost their family members in this tragic incident.
    Mujahideen
    computerize
    organizational
                                                works
    IN a constant bid to organise their work better the Mujahideen have decided to make use of computers in the battlefields.
    Last year when Baud, an Afghan refugee living in France, met Commander Masood. the idea of using computers in organizational work was discussed.
    Baud went back to France and with the help of some experts chose the right-equipment and the suitable program. He wit! be the first computer operator in the liberated areas of Afghanistan and his computer will be the first ever used by the Mujahideen,
    Now that the war has developed to an advanced stage and a large area is organized by a single commander, easy access to information Is vital for further improving the organizational effeciency of the Resistance.
    The information stored in the computer could help the Mujahideen plan operations much faster and can keep track of the arms and ammunition they have stored.
    Besides military use the computer could be used to store data that is used in planning economic, health and educational projects.
    This development goes against the generally held concept about the Mujahideen who are described by the Western press as primitive and ] disorganized.            !
    The war in Afghanistan has j introduced changes in the way of thinking of the people. The same way that the people want & new political system, they also like tc> see roads built, hospitals opened and schools started and use modem technology to improve their living conditions,
[  ....... r'          AEOHAMeroVol 4, So H, Juiy 15,1988, Page 6
                             Journalists lost their lives to report on Soviet crimes
 kitted in 19S?
 •Irshad oi Pakistan killed in 1988
1
    A cruel war in       ■
 Afghanistan has continued with the world hearing very little about it. What little news came out was when some dedicated journalists accepted the danger .and risked their lives to tell the world the truth. Many of them were lucky to return safe but a few have lost their life®.
    Afghanistan was not well known to the outside world. The invasion of this small and peaceful country by a Superpower made it a major news topic.
    But the nature of the war and the type of its terrain did not make it possible for many journalists to spend their time and money to cover the war. This is why this big news did not get the coverage it deserved.
    Few individuals went out of their Omits, and risked their lives to cover the war. The efforts of these people kept the issue alive and did not let the world forget about the crimes that the Soviet
 invaders were committing against Afghans,
    The price these people ! paid was very high. Some of them lost their Hfes, others went to jail but did not allow the truth to he hurled under the piles of lies spread by the invaders' propaganda machines. The threat by the Soviet Ambassador in Islambad that- foreign journalists would be killed if they traveled with the Resistance* did not frighten these brave men.
    Here are the names of those who lost their lives in Afghanistan while covering the war:
 ®Stale Goundhus of Norway killed in 1952
 •Raphael Favero of Australia killed in 1983 •Charles Thornton of USA killed in 1955
 •Lee Shapiro of USA killed in
!1937 •Jim Lindetof of the USA killed in 1987 •Andy Skraypkawiafc of U.K
    The following Western journalists were captured, tried on espionage charges and then released:
 •Jacques Abouchar of France captured in 1984 •All&ln Gusllo of France captured in 1987 •Fausto Bilslavo of Italy captured in 1987
    All the above brave men deserve appreciation for the risk they took to reveal the facts and their dedication and self-sacrifice should be an example for other journalists.
    Besides professional jounalists who covered the war other foreigners who helped bring the news were people connected to relief organizations, such as doctors, aid distributors etc.
    Besides doing their normal humanitarian job they also brought out news of what was happening to the Afghans, their culture and land in their'war of liberation against the Soviets.
 Opinion by Mohammad Es'haq
 _______   *|         _  • frr •«. . _
       Prospects and problems of Mujahideen elections
     WHILE the Afghan Resistance is united on holding elections to form a representative government, it is divided on the feasibility of holding elections before the end of the war.
     The idea of holding elections for a national assembly has existed for some years but due to practical difficulties they have net been held so far. The supporters of holding elections say that this process will involve the
majority of the people of Afghanistan, thus the Resistance will emerge stronger after an election.
    According to them the people of Afghanistan have been struggling for the right of self-determination sad holding elections is a means to fulfil that aim.
    The other side think that holding elections is full of problems and it may create further problems. They beiive that holding of an unsuccessful election will
discredit the Resistance and sharpen the differences among different Mujahideen groups.
    Before judging who is on the right track, let us examine the practical problems facing elections.
    The people of Afghanistan who must participate in the elections either live in the liberated areas of Afghanistan or in exile as refugees.
    The refugees largely live in Pakistan, and Iran. A
 j considerable number of      j
 j refugees also have sought   |
 I refuge in Western -Europe and j | the USA.
      Pak 1st an will be the place where elections could be held . easily among the refugees.
  Since the Mujahideen Alliance is based in Pakistan, there are close connections between the parties and the refugees in the camps, in order to hold elections in the camps co-operation with the Refugee authorities of Pakistan is very important Holding elections in Irm ; where about- two mill ion Afghans are living is questionable, It is not Known yet how the government of Iran will reset towards the I proposal, In Iran, most of the j ; refugees do not live In j camps. They are scattered in j different cities and holding j j elections in that type of j \ situation Is difficult,      j
      The Iran-based Resistance I parties are not part of the Alliance based in Peshawar, j !: therefor, their cooperation in 1 1 this respect cm ml be predicted.
      Some of the parties within the Alliance do no? have a large number of followers I among refugees in Iran, thus I they may not be very much j interested in bold mg [ electigas there,
      Arrangements for the i refugees living m countries 'j other than Pakistan and Iran . Is also very difficult. There ; is ao population census and nc easy way to conduct fair and free elections in these : countries.
      Therefore for the mult of ; any elections outside Afghanistan the eyes must be i focused on Pakistan where the bulk of refugees live.
         The situation Inside is j more complicated. The . | country is divided Into liberated areas controlled by the Mujahideen and occupied areas controlled by the Soviets and their puppets. Although the Resistance controls the major pan of the
  :______________________________
 Af&SAKews Vail Hail Juiy 13.1985, Page?
 Sand, due to the war the population is displaced and a large portion of pro-Mujahideen people live in1 the Soviet-controlled zones. They will mt be able to participate in ®ay elections.
    The liberated areas are also divided between different parties. These divisions make conducting a smooth election less possible. More than, that no pogwlatioa'ceoaus is available in liberated area® and elect-oral laws are not- yet-made ,
    It seems that holding fair and free elections inside Afghanistan before the end of the war is not a- practical option.
    More than that, holding of elections could give a boost to rivalries between the Mujahideen parties and sharpen their differences. ■ Any program to hold elections which is not successful could cause at legation of rigging by one side or the other which will be a blow'to the Resistance.
    Having m mind all the above problems the program to hold elections within $0 days is an ambitious program with little chances of success.
     The parties who support holding of elections know ail the above problems. Their first prize I© feat they seem good in the eyes of the world. The call for elections will be interpreted as the sign, of the confidence of these parties In the support of peop le for them.
     If the elects on is held the chances that these parties may win more support among the refugees In Pakistan is stronger, Is case holding elections In other areas (Iran, Afghanistan and the rest of the world}'faces problems— as is predictable— these parties use the result of elections in Pakistan as a sign of their strength.
     This is one of the reasons why some parties are not m ! favor of holding general I . elections before fee liberating
of the country .They are afraid that fee result of a premature election will paint the wrong picture of the relative stre&ght of fee Resistance parties.
   Those who may score more votes In the Refugee camps in Pakistan may not fee the one with military strength inside.
   These parties also argue that since everything has a temporary nature there is no seed to spend a lot of time and energy-for a temporary set-up.
   They believe that as Iona as the Soviets- are in the country and the puppets have not bees defeated any attempts to weigh the parties through political elections is a waste of time and diverts ’attention from the real purpose of continuing the war.
                                              Scholars hold seminar on Afghanistan issue •
   A two day seminar on the "Geneva accord and future of Afghanistan" organized fey lafoita-e-al-Alam Islami was held ta Islamabad on 25 June,
   The seminar passed a resolution praising the struggle of the Afghan people and the sacrifice of one million Afghans in the cause of freedom and independence.
   The resolution also called upon ail states, particularly the Muslim states to contribute towards the reconstruction of Afghanistan alter fee complete Soviet withdrawal and fee establishment of. an Islamic and representative government,
   The seminar was addressed by prominent scholars, and intellectuals from different Islamic slates. Some Mujahideen representatives were also present.
   The simlnar was chaired by Secretary General of Rafcita, Dr. Abdullah Omar Piaseef,
   ■

 f
 !