Vol 5, No 21
November 1, 1989
                 Scuds land at training center
    Two Scud missiles landed an abandoned a training camp of the Mujahideen in Keshm valley, injuring some fanners, two weeks ago.
    The two rockets landed in the middle of camp, showing the degree of their precision.
    The incident revealed the poor performance of Khad, regime's secret police, because the information it had provided was out of date. The training camp had been abandoned some weeks before.
    Two weeks ago the Kabul regime also fired three heavy rockets into the Panjshir valley, but caused no casualties. The target seemed to be group of buildings at the mouth of the valley, used as offices of central zone of the Supervisory Council. The rockets, which were either Scuds or BM-27s, missed the targets and landed oh a mountainside.
    The New York Times, quoting American officials, say that the Kabul regime has fired about 900 Scud missiles against the Mujahideen since February of the current year. Each rocket costs $1,000,000. They are fired with the help of Soviet military personnel
                                                   'Illegal entry' costs Arab youth 20 years in regime's prison
    A Saudi Arabian, Hassamuddin Mahmood, was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment for illegal entry into Afghanistan. A Spanish writer, Garcia, was sentenced for three years on the same charges.
    Hassamuddin Mahmood has been accused of spying and armed encounter with the regime forces.
    The Spanish writer, who entered Afghanistan to gather information for a' book, was arrested some time ago.
Soviet military advisors sent to Kunduz province
     The Supervisory Council of the North has reported that the Soviets have sent military advisors to Kunduz and have sent new advisors to Kabul to help the regime against the possible Mujahideen attacks.
     The report does not give any figures for the advisors sent to Kunduz nor for newly arrived advisors in Kabul..
     The US State Department has confirmed the presence of Soviet military advisors in Kabul, and has asked the Soviets to withdraw them.
     According to American officials.
though there is no direct reference to the withdrawal of Soviet advisors in the Geneva accords, the US believes that the withdrawal should include the advisors as well.
    The Kabul regime has admitted the presence of Soviet advisors in Kabul and says that they are not involved in combat activities against the Mujahideen.
    No information is available about the number of Soviet advisors who help the regime in the war against the Mujahideen.
Moscow increases military
assistance to Kabul regime
     >n important meeting tool place between Ahmad Shah Masood and Commander Abdul Basir Khalid last week in the Keshm valley.
     At the meeting the two commanders discussed ways of coordinating their military activities.
     Commander Basir Khan, a famous Jami’at commander in Badakhshan, has agreed to cooperate with the Supervisory Council
     Basir Khan's close contacts with the Supervisory Council will strengthen the position of the Mujahideen vis-a-vis the communist forces.
     Comander Basir Khan has control over the surrounding area of Faizabad, . the provincial capital of Badakhshan.
     His cooperation with the Supervisory Council willhelp his forces to become better organized and uainded.
     The news of understantdin reached between the two commanders has delighted Jami’at members.
    American sources have reported an increase in Soviet military aid to the Kabul regime during the current month.
    American media, quoting U.S State Department sources, said that Soviet aid has now reached $400 million per month. The previous rate was $250 to $300 million each month.
    The increase could be a precautionary measure to supply the regime with enough arms and ammunitions before the onset of winter, when supplying1 Kabul becomes more difficult
    The level of the Soviet commitment to support the regime has surprised many Western observers, who thought previously that Gorbachev might not lend such support to the Najibullah government for the sake of improved relations with the West
     The Mujahideen, on the other hand, are having problems getting the massive supplies of aims and ammunition needed to wage the new kind of war which they now face.
    A large scale offensive war needs a lot of resources.
                                                      non
----—--------  AFGHANews Vol5, No 21, November 1, 1989, page ©
                    News
                From the battlefields
^ — -------------------- ^
                                                        Balkh province
    Throughout the past two weeks the Mujahideen have inflicted heavy losses on the enemy while fighting communist
 forces.
    After the Mujahideen captured dozens of trucks loaded with bombs and foodstuffs, the regime forces launched attacks against the Mujahideen at Khairabad, Singird and Ona Gul. As ^ result of the fighting, about 100 enemy soldiers and officers were either killed or wounded, and ten tanks and armored cars were destroyed.
    Sixteen Mujahideen were killed and 24 were wounded in the fighting. The regime forces were supported by the air force. Bombing of Mujahideen positions continues. *
     *The Mujahideen under the command of Alam Khan, famous Jami'at commander in Balkh province, attacked an enemy convoy on October 18 in Tangi Tashquxghan.
     The road was blocked and the following items were captured.
     1- Tractors, 19
     2- Oil tankers, 7
     3- Trucks loaded with ammunition, 12
     4- Tracks loaded with food stuff,
        12
     3- Trucks loaded with clothes, 2
     6-Armored car, 1
     Twenty trucks and the gas station of Khulm district were set on fire. One Mujahid was wounded.
     The report did not mention the regime's casualties inflicted. The Salang highway passes through Tangi Tashqurghan, a choke point in a narrow gorge where the Mujahideen ambush enemy convoys.
     Kabul province
    The Kabul-Jalalabad road is still closed, and repeated attempts by regime forces to open the highway have been foiled by the Mujahideen.
    The road was closed on September 24 and remained closed on October 16 when this report was filed.
    On October 15, the regime forces launched an attack to clear the mines planted by the Mujahideen on the road. The Mujahideen resisted, and the enemy retreated after losing two tanks and a truck in land-mine explosions.
    On October 16, the enemy tried again to open the road but the two-pronged attack was repulsed by the Mujahideen. On the same day, the Mujahideen set fire to an ammunition dump of Mashal Post, which burned for several hours.
    The operation to block the road is commanded by Commander Anwar of Jami'at, who enjoys the support of other local parties.
     Parwan province
     The Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy when attacking Bagram Air Base on October 19. In retaliation, the enemy heavily bombed the residential areas, killing and wounding a large number of civilians.
     The attack, launched by Jami'at Mujahideen led by Commander Gul Agha Shafaq, destroyed four enemy planes on the ground and killed more than 50 enemy troops, including two high ranking officers.
     One junior commander of the Mujahideen, and more than 100 civilians were killed during aerial bombing
 of the villages controlled by the Mujahideen.
                                                   Logar province
     The united forces of the Mujahideen captured part of the enemy garrison in Mohammad Agha district when they launched a driving commando action against it on September 29.
     The garrison is situated in Bini Sharafgan on the Kabul-Paktia road. The Mujahideen suipriscd the enemy by driving on two trucks into the garrison.
     Trucks were allowed to pass through the garrison on their way to Kabul. At the same time'the outposts of the garrison were attacked with | heavy weapons. Mujahideen supporters within the garrison helped the attackers. As a result, part of the garrison came under control of the Mujahideen, but some of the posts continued to resist.
     Ths resistance gave the enemy air force a chance to bomb the base, and enemy long range artillery stationed in different bases heavily pounded the half-liberated garrison. As a result of this bombardment a large number of the enemy troops were killed. The Mujahideen also lost some men and were forced to abandon the garrison.
     Enemy reinforcements arrived after several hours and recaptured the garrison.
     ' As a resit of this fighting one of the Jami'at commanders, Abdul Haq, was killed. Abdul Haq was born 30 years ago in Logar province and had been fighting since 1980.
     Mohammad Agha is about 40 kilometers south of Kabul on the Kabul-Paktia highway.
                                               Regime convoy fails to reach Paktia
     A regime supply convoy of several hundreds trucks, escorted by tanks and armoured vehicles trying to take supplies to the Gardez and Khost garrisons, was stopped by the Mujahideen outside the security belt of Kabul city.
     The convoy started its journey On October 12, but could not pass Logar province because of united action by the Mujahideen.
     Reports say that the regime air force and long-range rockets bombed the Mujahdieen areas heavily, inflicting losses on civilians and property.
     At the beginning of the current year die Soviets transported supplies to Khost by land, after weeks of heavy fighting.
     The Khost and Gardez garrisons are usually resupplied by air. Most of the supplies are parachuted down to the garrisons.
AFGHANews Vol5, No21, November 1,1989, page©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mullah Peiram Qul
     Mullah Peiram Qul, a horse-rider and the son of a hard-working Uzbak farmer, was born 27 years ago in a beautiful village called Hazar Sumuch in Rustaq district of Takhar province.
     His father, Artaab Adeen Qul, was a stubborn horse rider too. "He used to talk about his horse much more than anything else,” said Ebrahim, Peiram Qul's representative in Peshawar.
     Peiram Qul was sent by his father to the primary school in the village when he was six years old. His father wanted his son to learn Islamic theology and became a religious scholar.
     After completing the primary school, Peiram Qul attended madrasa in the Rustaq district "He was keen in his studies. His father wanted him to be a hard-working student," said the representative.
     Peiram Qul was still studying at iis madrasa when the communists took power in Kabul. "He left his studies and started to do underground work against the Soviets and the local communists in Rustaq. The first person who led him into battle was Omar Shaheed," Ebrahim recalled.
     Mullah Peiram Qul was one of the first thirty people in his area who formed a group under Jami'at Islami banner. In the beginning they bought some shotguns. Later they drew more and more people to their group. The people encouraged them and gave them arms and ammunition.
      In January 1979, Peiram Qul and his group launched their first attack against the Rustaq district headquarters With few casualties, they were able to inflict heavy losses on the enemy. They captured arms and ammunition,, including some Kalashnikov assault rifles. After this operation Peiram Qul and his group established their first base in the Ail Shar mountains, close to Rustaq.
      Peiram Qul's area of operation was strategically important It was just 30 kilometers from the Soviet border. The long range artillery fired from the Soviet Union could hit his base, and Soviet ground forces could reach his base in an hour's time. Peiram Qul needed to be alert and strong to survive the Soviets' onslaughts during the ten years of occupation.
      Commander Peiram Qul expanded his operations and established more bases in Baishkand, Qadaq and Deewal Tang, in different parts of Rustaq
 district
     His forces had to deal with the local militia forces headed by Abdul Rahim, Abdul Rashid Tatar, Ghulam Sakhi, and Abdul Samad, known as Samadov. The militias were the backbone of the communist regime's establishment in the area. Since militias have committed a lot of crimes against the people, they fight to death. They are experienced fighters, are well-equipped and know the terrain.
     The militia posts around the city, and the road going to the the district garrison were the main targets of Mullah Peiram Qul's attacks.
     Peiram Qul gave the account of one his battles as follows: "It was May 13, 1978 at 4 a.m that the enemy attacked die Mujahideen base at Toot village. For four hoars the planes bombed the area. Everywhere there was fire. One could see nothing but fire. Many, civilians were either killed or wounded. Later on the enemy ground forces arrived. We fought hand to hand . Thank God that the Mujahideen inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. We lost two group commanders and 12 Mujahideen, but the Russian lost more than 113 men."
     From January to March 1988, the Mujahideen were able to capture all the posts and the district garrison in Rustaq, which resulted in the total liberation of the district
     Peiram Qul joined the Supervisory Council last year. His association with council has helped him to organize his men better.
     He is interested in riding and hunting. He is respected by his Mujahideen and local people. "When you see him be looks like a soft-spoken teacher who loves his students," said Ebrahim.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
                 jjj >4;
         i    Jjj jS-i
 The first day you meet, you are friends.
 The next day you meet, you are .brothers.
 Meaning: Friendship grows into brotherhood.
       -ijG J>» «f
 There is a way from heart to heart.
 Meaning: Love finds a way to another's hear.
                                                             m
            J— L ^ wjj
         ■ -- J1*   SjS ^
                      j-»
 A real friend is one who takes the hand of his friend in times of distress and helplessness.
 Meaning: A friend in need is a friend indeed.
            000
  Editorial
                               UN aid policy biased towards Kabul regime
    The recent UN relief operation via the Kabul regime has created doubts about the impartial role of the UN as a peace-maker. The UN Secretary General should take immediate steps to correct the situation.
    The relief coordinator has a mandate to provide assistance to all Afghans, and the aid should be distributed in such a way that no side in the conflict can exploit it for their political ends.
    The UN has done very little to help the millions of Afghans living in the liberated areas. These are the neediest people, and they have suffered for a decade. The UN activities in liberated areas have been limited to sending survey missions and doing preliminary work.
    Salaam Express, bringing supplies through the Soviet Union to regime- controlled areas, renders UN assistance unbalanced and biased towards the regime.
    Making use of the media reports which describe the food situation in the regime-controlled cities as very grave, the UN coordinator has decided to take food and other relief goods to these cities.
    But the real reason behind these food shortages has not been taken into account. Food shortages last year and propaganda about a possible shortage in the j'uture are the result of deliberate Kabul regime policy, based on Soviet advice. Its goal is to defame the Mujahideen, to boost the image of the Soviets as humane x>wer concerned about well-being of Afghans, and to get assistance from UN, so they can divert their own resources to military purposes.
    Why has the UN done nothing to relieve the suffering of millions of Afghans iving in liberated areas of Afghanistan during the years of occupation? Why it is not making a serious effort to help needy people in these areas now? Their suffering may not be reflected by the international media, but one can not deny that their needs are the greatest Reports of severe food shortages in central, northeastern and northwestern Afghanistan have already reached the UN.
    When the UN first decided to give relief assistance to the Afghans it trod carefully. Survey teams were sent to the liberated areas and Mujahideen leaders were consulted about relief projects in Afghanistan,
    The recent UN decision to send relief workers inside, without prior consultation with Mujahideen leaders, signals a change of attitude towards the resistance. Perhaps the inability of the Mujahideen to defeat the Kabul regime is the main reason behind this change.
    The UN authorities should be more foresighted. They should not get the wrong impression from a temporary stalemate on the battlefield. They should not assume that the regime now has die upper hand in the fighting, and that it is safe to work for Kabul without attending to the Mujahideen and people living under their control.
     Though the UN can work with regime more easily because of Kabul's UN membership, and though the Soviet Union is helping the UN give assistance to the regime, the UN's mandate is to search for peace. It should avoid doing anything which will harm its reputation as an impartial body working toward that end.;
     Salaam Express was launched without the advice of the people who had led survey missions into the liberated areas, and who have been advising Prince Sadruddin Agha Khan on Afghanistan.
     The personal ambitions of some people in the coordinator's office could be a factor behind this hasty decision.
     We are not against helping poor people, no matter where they live. But we
                                                                                                                Turn to page (5 )
November 1,1989, page Q
Holding polls
Dr. Fazlullah
    The following is the text of an interview with Dr. Fazullah, general commander of Jami'at Islami in Logar province. Abdul Basir, AFGHANews reporter, talked to him some weeks ago at his base in Logar province.
     Q -How are Jami'at relations with other parties in Logar?
     A- There is understanding and cooperation amongst us.
     Q- What are the factors which help the survival of the regime?
                    I
     A- The regime survives mainly on heavy bombardment, long range artillery fire, using cash to infiltrate the Mujahideen and confusing the world opinion through propaganda.
     Q- The world expected the fall of Kabul in one week; why didn't it fall?
     A- It was over-optimism, but Kabul will definitely fall.
     Q- What is your position on Farkhar killing of Jami'at commanders?
     A- We condemn it. Those who have done it, we consider them murderers, and they must be punished.
     Q- People expect you to capture Logar within a month. Can you?
     A- It depends on the military circumstances and cooperation among different parties.
     Q- Can elections be held in
 Afghanistan?
     A- Under the present conditions it is not practical.
     Q- What is the way out of the present situation?
     A- All the Mujahideen forces should get around the strongest force in Afghanistan and form a united front.
                                       AFGHANews Vol 5, No 21, November 1,1989, page @
Obituar
             Supervisory Council mourns Enayatullah's martyrdom
    Enayatullah was bom 38 years ago in the village of Bayan-i- Sufla, near Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan.
    His father, Haji Abdul Khgliq, was a fanner with his own land and vineyard. The family's economic situation was good. Haji Abdul Khaliq had enough money to visit the holy city of Mecca in order to perform Haj (Islamic pilgrimage).
    EnayatuUah went to primary school, and later to Noman High School in Charikar.
    Young EnayatuUah also performed haj at die age of 18, and earned the title of Haji
    Haji EnayatuUah became a teacher and remained in die post for one year. He had come in contact with the activists of the Islamic Movement in high school, and he became involved in the anti-communist campaign. The communist coup of 1978 changed his life; he began aimed struggle.
    Being close to the city of Charikar, he began minor, armed urban activities against the communist elements before launching open attacks against the enemy establishment
 are against sending UN assistance through the Soviet Union, and distributing it through the Kabul regime. These arrangements would have hurt the Mujahideen politically and prolong the rule of Soviet puppets in Afghanistan: Any relief work distributed through die regime will be misused for political reasons and will be given only to pro-regime people. It is beyond the ability of the UN to control this situation.
     The Najibullah regime has begun spreading propaganda about Salaam Express and has accused the Mujahideen of creating problems for distribution of the aid. This propaganda could se the stage for another tragedy, in the name of opening the road for UN relief goods. Last January, Soviet bombardment killed more than 400 people in the Salang valley on the pretext of opening the road for food convoys to the poor people of Kabul.
     The danger that UN relief goods will be abused to create a working relationship between the Najib regime and
    He started his work with a few guns, and in 1983 captured the security posts of the Parwan Irrigation Project. He seized enough guns there to increase the number of his fighting men. In 1984, he was appointed Jami'at commander of the flat areas of Parwan by the Supervisory Council.
     He took active part in the operation against Kuran-o-Munjan garrison in 1987, which resulted in the liberation of die area. He was wounded several times during his career.
    In the most recent round of the Council's operation against the Salang highway, he inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. On September 23 he was killed when a mortar shell exploded close to him.
    Commander EnayatuUah was his father's second son to die fighting die communists. Aminullah, his younger brother, was killed in 1979 in Peshawar when a bomb planted by die enemy destroyed the Jami'at office and killed 13 officers.
     In a letter to Prof. Rabbani, Commander Masood has called his death a loss which can not be repaired easily.
 some Mujahideen fronts cannot be ruled ouL The Mujahideen will oppose any such move, and it would be a great mistake for the UN bodies to involve themselves in such conspiracies.
     Supply shipments through the Soviet Union and distribution of relief goods by the Kabul regime should stop immediately. In the future every move concerning Afghans should made with consultation with the Afghan Interim Government The Mujahideen cannot tolerate any move which is biased toward the iUegal puppet regime of Najibullah.
  AIG trains policemen
     A training program for policemen, organized by the Interior Ministry of the AIG, started in Peshawar on October 23, MIDIA reported.
     Two hundred policemen are being trained in the center. The training center was opened by Commander Abdul Haq, who is the chief of the AIG police department
 Jehad Diary
        From page (6)
 Mujahideen posts in different parts of the city was disrupting law and order.
    He consulted with Jami'at Khalis and Harakat commanders about how the city could be reorganized. All the commanders authorized the Supervisory Council to do die job.
    My time was short and I wanted to go to Banjshir to meet my family and Maids. My final activity was a private conversation with Masood in Worsaj. I found the commander confident of a Mujahideen victory.
  Islamic Movement
                                                    From page (7)
 be welcomed by those who wanted to see Muslims united and victorious.
    1 wanted to meet with Prof. Sayyaf to prevent him from fanning a new party, the party which was called the Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan.
    Until that time Prof. Sayyaf had said dial he was not forming a new party, but all the clues indicated such a thing was taking shape. I had heard things from Prof. Sayyaf which indicated the existence of a new party.
    I contacted his brother, Sayed Gharib, who was a friend of mine, to arrange a meeting for me with Prof. Sayyaf. He said that Prof. Sayyaf would meet me soot.
    After a few days I renewed my request, and was told to wait I waited for one and half months, but the meeting did not take place. Meanwhile Prof. Sayyaf achieved what he was longing for: the formation of his party. Although Prof. Sayyaf refused to call it a new party, the world knew that it was
    Despite Prof. Sayyaf being my old friend, I always opposed his moves in the name of achieving unity. I knew that these moves did not bring unity. During this time he never consulted me. Developments showed that I was right.
    I preferred the unity based on satisfaction of the parties even if it was a weak one. I was against a unity formed under external pressure even if it was a total unity.
    I preferred the parties which were not ready for unity to be left to themselves and unity be formed among those who believed in it and were satisfied with its consequences. Once such unity was formed attempts should have been made to consolidate it
UN aid policy ...
                                 From page( 4)
AFGHANews Vol5, No21, November 1,1989, page©
From the Diary of Jehad             Part (3)
Taloqan resumes normal business after culprits of Farkahr killing are captured
     In Worsaj the drivers returning from Taloqan told us that Sayed Jamal (the Hezb commander responsible for the tragedy of Farkhar) had lost control of the gorge. They reported that Jamal's men took 10,000 Afghanis from each truck passing through the gorge in the morning, but by the afternoon they had gone.
     We reached the Taloqan-Keshm road a few hundred yards from the spot I where the massacre had taken place one month before. Jami'at Mujahideen were in control of the area. The road to Taloqan was paved.
 Fourteen years before I had passed through the area on my way to Keshm. A group of young activists of the Islamic movement, headed by Dr. Mohammad Umar from Keshm, had gone to the area to start an armed uprising against the Daud regime, which was very close to the communists. Daud's security forces pursued Dr. Umar; he was betrayed by some influential local men, arrested and handed over to Daud regime. He was later executed.
     I found the Taloqan valley more green than I had . thought it would be. We paid a short visit to the house of Dr. Husain in Khetayan to offer condolence to his family.
     We reached Taloqan at noon. We were taken by Commander Masood’s driver to Bagh-e-Zakhira; a garrison controlled first by Soviets and then by PDPA. It fell to the Mujahideen last year.
     Imet with Commander Gada andra large number of Mujahideen. The weather was hot After we had eaten and said our prayers. Commander Masood arrived at the base.
     It is always a pleasure to meet an old friend from whom 1 have learned a lot I stayed with him for five days, and I was there when Sayed Jamal was captured.
     When Sayed Jamal had killed a number of important Jami'at commanders at Tangi Farkhar, everybody in Jami'at was shocked. The incident put Masood and the Supervisory Council in a difficult position.
     If they had not taken action against the perpetrators of the tragedy, the people would have lost faith in them. Both Ulama and ordinary people wanted the culprits to be punished. So the area was
    By: Mohammad.Esbaq
besieged by Shoora forces to prevent reaching reinforcement to Jamal.
    The operation lasted only a few hours. Fewer than 20 people from both sides were killed. Jamal and seven of his friends went into hiding, while the rest joined Jami'at. Jamal had isolated himself by his misdeeds, and when he faced danger got no help from either his men or the local population. He was forced to surrender.
    The operation against Jamal was conducted in an impressive way. The Mujahideen from Council behaved responsibly and avoided taking personal revenge. Masood set a good example by treating Jamal and his men humanely.
    Immediately after the Farkhar tragedy, Jami'at members in Taloqan became targets of attacks by three groups. Hezb wanted to exploit the situation and launched an attack to capture the city but failed. SAZA, a communist organization in coalition with PDPA, also attacked Taloqan but failed.
    The regime was also planning to recapture Taloqan, but due to the Council's timely steps the attack was not launched.
Ulama and leaders of other Islamic parties told Masood how Sayed Jamal refused to listen to their advice, and how he killed Jami’at commanders. When Arif Khan, a Jami'at conunanderfrom Kunduz who had been captured in Farkhar and then released, arrived in Taloqan, he sent a delegation of Ulama and elders to Sayed Jamal to keep him from killing Jami'at commanders captured by his men. Jamal promised their release, but instead sent back their mutilated bodies. Commanders from the Khalis and Harakat parties told the same story.
    The people's reaction to Jamal's arrest was favorable. People thought that Jamal's easy defeat was due his tweaking his promises and killing innocent people.
    For five days I was a witness to Masood's various activities. I attended a meeting of the commanders of Taloqan presided over by Masood. They discussed the military situation in the city and die future course of action. Masood was critical of a few cases of undisciplined acts by local Mujahideen. Everybody expressed his opinion freely.
 They settled many points in a relatively short meeting.
     I went for a walk with Masood on a football field in Taloqan. He asked questions about the situation outside, and I asked him about events inside.
     Masood has become a folk hero; every one wants to see him. One afternoon he had an appointment with some journalists in a house close to the main road. The people of the city - several thousand people, young arid old - gathered around. When he left, a large crowd chased his jeep to catch a glimpse of him.
     Masood is a busy man. He bolds commanders' meetings, answers all radio messages sent from all over Afghanistan, and meets with people. Despite all the pressure he is always friendly and relaxed.
                                                                                                                                              i
 One important development which was new to me was the formation the Council army . The army units acted like professionals and you could read determination and courage in (he faces of the men.
     During my stay in Taloqan, I met with some old friends: Commander Pana, Commander Gada, Commander Muza and Commander Saleh. These people are the masters of the battlefield.
     1 also met with Haji Agha Gul, who replaced Mullah Wudood, Commander Pir Mohammad, Pahlawan Ebrahim and Sayed Eqbal, Dr. Husain's brother.
     Taloqan is the biggest city controlled by the Mujahideen. It is a clean city with parks, shops, beautiful mosques and running water in each street.
     Taloqan has escaped major destruction in die war. Shops were full of goods. Ice cream parlors were full of costumers. The foreign journalists displayed an insatiable appetite for Afghan icecream.
     Taloqan and its surrounding areas are very fertile. People's living conditions are relatively good. From the face of the people erne could say that they were well-fed. Taloqan is a city in which Uzbaks, Tajiks and Pushtoons live together.
                                                                                                         Masood wanted to see the city better organized. The presence of so many
                                                                                                                        Turn to page ( 5 }
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 21, November 1,1989, page @
Glimpses into the historic background of
Part (10)
The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
     In previous parts we discussed different factors leading to the creation of Jabha-i-Nejat Midi Afghanistan. We also discussed something about the failure of this organization to achieve its aims and how it turned into an independent organization.
     We talked about useful cooperation between Jabha and Jami'at and briefly discussed the unsuccessful attempts to unify different parties, and bow these efforts led to creation of new parties. Here, I discuss new efforts to bring unity among the Islamic parties and the role of Jami’at in these efforts.
     At the beginning of 1979, some Afghans from within the parties and outside them had begun a series of discussions to bring unity among the parties. Several meetings of these people Look place. This led to the creation of Payman Ittihad Islami Mujahideen Afghanistan ( Covenant of the Islamic Union of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan). The following parties formed the new unity.
     1- Jami'at Islami (Prof. Rabbani)
     2- Jabha Milli (Prof. Mujaddidi)
     3- Harakat Inqelab (Mohammadi)
     4- Mahaz Milli (Gailani)
     Hezb Islami Hikmatyar did riot participate in the Alliance despite efforts by some brothers. Prof. Sayyafs party did not exist at that time.
     This attempt at unity also could not get the support of the constituent parties and very soon was dissolved.
     Efforts to unite the Mujahideen continued. At that time Prof. Sayyaf, who had been released from the regime prison, came to Peshawar. He naturally joined Jami'at because he was the deputy of Prof. Rabbani in Kabul. He had kept in contact with us since then. He had a good position among the brothers in Jami'at, and members of Jami'at were delighted by his arrival in Peshawar.
     In the meantime Hezb Islami (Maulawi Khalis) had also emerged as an independent party. Some brothers proposed that Prof. Sayyaf should get membership in Hezb (Khalis) so that he could be proposed for the leadership of the new union by the Khalis group.
     They thought that since Hezb (Khalis) was newly formed, and Prof. Sayyaf had recently come to Peshawar, that the people from other parties
   Memoirs of Dr. Tawana
 might not be as sensitive towards them; his chance of success was great.
     A council for the new union, in which all parties except Hezb (Hikmatyar) had participated, was formed. It was decided that each party should be represented by equal numbers of members in the council of Unity (seven member from each party). I, (Dr. Tawana), and Prof. Sayyaf were also members of this council, this union was called Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan.
     It was decided that the president of the union and his deputy should be chosen from among the members of the council. As a result of an election within the council. Prof. Sayyaf became the [Resident and Prof. Mujaddidi vice president of the union.
     Contrary to what some Mujahideen and refugees in Peshawar thought, the unity did not end the status of the parties. Resources should have been given to all the parties in the unity, the fob lowing parties formed the Islamic Union for Liberation of Afghanistan:
     1-      Jami'at, headed by Prof. Rabbani
     2- Hezb Islami, headed by Khalis
     3- Harakat, headed by Mohammadi
     4- Jabha, headed Ptof. Mujaddidi
     5- Mahaz, headed by Gailani
     But this union, like the previous ones, die} not provide a united military command to fight against the enemy. Fighting fronts did not adopt the program of unity and the union did not take any steps to bridge the gap between different fighting fronts. But new differences between some groups and closeness between others arose, which were a product of different factors which I will not discuss here.
     The new development was the concentration of resources in new hands. In the past the resources were distributed by different groups and the accumulation of these resources paved the road for creation of a new party, which was called the Islamic Union for the Liberation of Afghanistan, headed by Prof. Sayyaf.
   . It was decided that elections for choosing a new [Resident would be held at the end of one year, and it was also decided the decisions regarding important issues should taken by the Council of the Union. These two things did not happen. The Council rarely met and elections were not held at the end of one year.
      One and half years after the formation of the Union, Prof. Sayyaf, instead of holding elections, asked the parties to dissolve themselves and accept his leadership. Younus Khalis accepted this idea and the Executive Council of Jami'at also accepted it When 1 was the acting president of Jami'at, in the absence of Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf asked my opinion about his proposal of dissolving Jami'at. I rejected the idea for two reasons:
      Firstly, I did not have the authority to take such a step in the absence of Prof. Rabbani. Secondly, Jami'at could only have been dissolved if other parties did the same.
      By dissolving only Jami'at, total unity would not have been achieved and transfer of the belongings of Jami'at to Prof. Sayyaf could not create the desired unity. This would have resulted in a change of leadership of Jami'at which we were not in favor of.
      A group of people who had close relations with Prof. Sayyaf asked me to sign a paper confirming my desire for unity. Some Mujahideen and refugees also had signed the paper. I signed the paper but the unity we wanted did not come about.
      1 remember well that relations between'Jami’at and Prof. Sayyaf deteriorated and this was the result of the separatist moves by Prof. Sayyaf and his close friends. I called these moves separatist because until that time he was a member of Jami'at Islami, considered himself a sincere student of Professor Rabbani and was a member of the Executive Council of Jami’at. He attended the meetings of the Executive Council of Jami'at regularly and was present in that meeting which voted in favor of total unity among the Mujahideen parties.
      Some of the separatist moves of Professor Sayyaf were:
      -A large number of people had gathered around him and he paid the rent of their houses and their expenditure.
        -He appointed these people in key position in different committees.
      I saw the clanger of these developments as the following:
      creation of a new party and separation of some Jami'at members to join the new party. It was not a pleasarlt development for the sincere members of Jami’at It also would open a new dispute within the resistance and could not
                Turn to page (5 )
  ______________________________:________
AFGHANews Vol5, No 21, November 1, 1989, page ©
Regime, Soviet Union have misled world media about situation in Afghanistan
     A 50-minute documentary film on Afghanistan shown on BBC Television has painted a disproportionate picture of civilian casualties in the cities, and has drawn incorrect conclusions about the need to continue Jehad.
     The first part of the film deals with reasons of the failure of the Mujahideen to defeat the communist regime in Kabul.
     According to the film, when the Mujahideen frontal attacks failed, they turned u> random rocketing of the cities, which inflicts losses on the civilian population.
     Several scenes of children, old men and women being injured in Kabul and Kandahar are shown.
     In order to balance the film the director has tried to address the destruction of villages and killing of civilians by the regime, but the effort is futile: the sight of destroyed villages do not have the same impact as a weeping old woman trained to cry anti-Mujahideen and anti-American slogans.
     The film does not put the horrible stories of the present in historic perspective, and gives the false impression that the Mujahideen and their supporters are responsible for what it calls "a purposeless war."
     The Soviets' massive arming of the regime is not highlighted in the film, and the regime’s peace slogans are taken seriously.
     The film shows the discontent of some Mujahideen about random firing of rockets into the cities, but does not mentioned the reservations most Mujahideen harbor about harming civilians. Without their self-restraint, the Mujahideen would have disrupted city life far more and civilian casualties would have been much higher.
     The documentary stresses the controversial role of American weapons have played in prolonging the fighting, but the advice of Peter Thomsen, the American special envoy to the Mujahideen, that regime’s killing of civilians should also be documented, seems reasonable.
     Why are the Soviets not blamed for the continuation of war which they started, and now continue to fuel by sending arms to their puppets?
     Finally, the film calls the Jehad against the communist regime meaningless, an offensive remark borrowed from Russian diplomats.
     The Oslo Hearing on Afghanistan showed that the western media and public have been greatly misled by Soviet and Kabul-regime propaganda. If the Mujahideen do not take proper steps to counter it, they may lose the sympathy of their traditional supporters.
      On 23 September 1989, the Afghanistan-Norwegian Committee hosted a Hearing on Afghanistan in Oslo, the capital of Norway. It was the third Hearing of its type, in which a large number of Afghan supporters, journalists who have been in Afghanistan, Afghan specialists, the representatives of some of the humanitarian organizations based in Peshawar or abroad. Mujahideen commanders and representatives of some Afghan political parties have participated.
     The Hearing lasted for three days, and covered different areas, such as military, political, economic and social aspects of the Afghan problem.
     Two commanders from Kabul, Anwari and Belal, discussed the military situation around Kabul. Both explained why the capital had not fallen. Commander Belal mentioned the lack of a unified command on the Mujahideen side. He felt that time was needed to overcome the problem.
     Masood Khalili, a political officer from Jami’at, talked about the political situation in Afghanistan, and the strengths and weakness of the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime in the light of the superpowers' behavior in the post- withdrawal phase.
     Dr. Agha Gul and some others talked about reconstruction of free Afghanistan. Three Afghan ladies, including Fatima Gailani, discussed issues regarding the role of women in the future Afghan society.
     Mine clearing, medical help, educational assistance and shortage of essential commodities were also covered in detail
     Speakers in the Hearing stressed the need for sending humanitarian assistance both to the refugees in the countries neighboring Afghanistan and to the war-affected Afghans inside the country.
     The main questions asked by the Westerners in the Hearing were: Why have the Mujahideen not been able to topple the Kabul regime? Why do the Mujahideen fire rockets on the residential areas of poor people? Why do the
 Mujahideen not talk to the Kabul regime, which has renounced communism ? Why do Afghans kill each other? Why has the AIG not been able to accomplish anything militarily or politically? Why were the Jami’at commanders killed by Sayed Jamal? Why was there no unity amongst the leaders?, and so forth.
     The answers given by the Mujahideen commanders about the military situation were educational for the questioners. The Mujahideen commanders rejected the enemy allegation that they intentionally fired rockets into the residential areas in the cities. They said that some sad incidents in which civilians were hit was attributed to inaccurate weapon systems. The regime military installations were the real target of these attacks.
     Surprisingly, most of Western questioners had forgotten to mention how die communist regime took power in 1978. They did not ask why the people of Afghanistan revolted against the communist regime before the Soviet invasion. Nor, why did the Soviets invade Afghanistan? Why were 1.5 million Afghans killed or wounded? Who has planted thousands of mines in Afghanistan? Why did the Soviets destroy 60% of agricultural fields of Afghanistan?.
     Najib had become, in the eyes of die Western media or at least those journalists at the Hearing, a reasonable, innocent, rational and religious person, who is concerned about the safety of the civilian population, and is the only guardian of peace in the country.
     The Mujahideen present at the panel saw the problem from another angle. They admitted that the Mujahideen had their weak points and were suffering from lack of a proper mechanism to express their views; but did this mean that Najib, should turn into an innocent gentleman overnight because of his propaganda power? They added that there was no difference between Najib's government and his puppet predecessors such as Tandri, Babrak and Amin. The Najib regime has survived mainly on massive Soviet military and economic assistance. Weapons of mass killing, such as Scud missiles, have been given to Najib in great numbers. The Mujahideen attending the Hearing were of the view that Afghans should be allowed to determine their future.
           a***-.**1         \
CW s
           3S»*
V 5  ■/■'        . , , , h . . j.
byiami^afciM
v M! -A X &■ k, ■=. -K fyh.
Vol 5, No 22
November 15, 1989

                   kill regime general
    The Mujahideen have killed a regime general and have wounded two others, Kabul regime radio reported.
    General Ali Akbar, the regime’s corps commander in Kandahar who was killed by the Mujahideen, was buried with fuil military honors in Kabul.
    One of the wounded officers was General Halim, head of the police force in Kandahar.
    MIDIA, the official news agency of AIG, has reported that the head of the regime's military intelligence in Kandahar; General. Shamsuddin, was wounded in a mine explosion. The mine was planted by the Mujahideen.
    Twelve people were killed when a regime plane crashed in the eastern city of Jalalabad. A spokesman of the Kabul regime attributed the crash to a technical problem and Titled out the possibility an attack by the Mujahideen.
                                           Peace prevails in Taloqan
   Mehiabuddin, an Afghan journalist who returned from a recent trip to Takhar, said that he was impressed by the way Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, was run by the Mujahideen.
   He said that a young man, Dr. Mushahid, who is a member of Jami'at political party, has been appointed the govemer of the province. His deputy. Engineer Omar, belongs to Harakat Inqilab Islami (Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi). The head of the traffic department is Commander Abdul Baqi from Hezb Islami (Khalis), and the polipe chief is Pir Mohammad from Jami'at.
   The law and order situation in Taloqan was extremely good.
   An old man told Mehrabuddin that he was not worried about the safety of his family and property and often neglected to lock the door of his house when he went to sleep.
UN General Assembly calls for talks between Afghans
     The UN General Assembly passed a consensus resolution on Afghanistan on November 1, calling for intra-Afghan dialogue. The Afghan Interim government rejected the idea of dialogue with the Kabul regime.
     The consensus resolution was the product of extensive consultation between Pakistan and the Soviet Union. 159 countries voted in favour of the resolution, which was tabled without a debate.
     The Vice President of die General Assembly, Ousman Ahmadu Sallah of Gambia, who tabled the resolution, called it a "balanced text taking into account the interest of all parties concerned."
     This resolution is similar to the previous UN resolution except for some new items concerning the withdrawal of Soviet troops, and calls for intra-Afghan dialogue as a means to achieve peace.
     The Geneva accord was signed on April 14, 1988, between Pakistan and the Kabul regime. This agreement facilitated the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, which was completed on February 15,1989.
     The Geneva accords did not bring peace to Afghanistan because the Kabul regime remained in power and the Mujahideen refused to deal with it.
     An important element in the new resolution, from the Mujahideen point of view, is the UN call for preservation of the Islamic character of Afghanistan
 as an essential element in a political solution to the problem of that country.
     For the first time this term appeared in the joint communique by Iran and the USSR issued at the end of President Rafsanjani's trip to Moscow after Imam Khomeini's death.
     The Pakistan representative called the UN resolution of "great significance". The Kabul regime representative promised the regime's full cooperation in implementing the resolution. The Kabul regime finds most of the resolutions in conformity with its policies. These parts deal with implementation of the Geneva Accord, and dialogue between different Afghan groups.
     A spokesman for the AIG rejected the resolution on the grounds that it was calling for dialogue between different groups in the conflict between the Mujahideen and the regime. The Mujahideen have consistently rejected any deal with the communist regime of Najibullah,
     Meanwhile, a high-ranking delegation of the Mujahideen was in New York to plead their case. The delega tion, headed by Farooq Azam, the Education Minister of the AIG, met with the UN Secretary General, Javier Perez .de Cuellair, and discussed with him the Afghanistan issue.
     The Mujahideen delegation called on Vice President Dan Quayle and Secretary of State James Baker.
   Soviet citizens protest against KGB atrocities
   More than 1000 people, many mourning the persecution of relatives under dictator Josef Stalin, staged a candlelight vigil outside the KGB's notorious Lubyanka headquarters on October 30, Reuter reported.
   As several thousand Muscovites returning home from work looked on curiously, police manned barricades to prevent anyone entering the square, and baton-charged the few who managed to break through and unfurl banners.
   Police held back onlookers, as the crowd stood in silence for half an hour outside the state security headquarters to honor those killed and imprisoned for their political beliefs.
   "The Lubyanka is despised by all freedom-loving people, let it be tunned into a museum for the victims of political terrorism in the Soviet Union,” said a statement issued by Memorial, the group which organized the protest
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15,1989, page @
     Herat province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed 25 communist soldiers and captured five when they attacked government positions in Char Sarak, in the Islam Qala area, on November 4.
    The Mujahideen captured the following weapons:
    ZPU anti aircraft guns, 3 76mm guns, 2 82mm mortar, 1 PK machine guns, 2 Kalashnikov rifles, 18 One Mujahid was killed in the operation.
   Kandahar province
    The Mujahideen in Kandahar fired 60 ground-to-ground rockets at enemy positions in Firqa-i-Kandahar on November 4.
  . The firing resulted in setting fire to some buildings and killing and wounding 17 soldiers and officers. Two trucks were also set on fire.
    Jami'at Mujahideen in Arghandab district fired 55 rockets into enemy positions in the Tabeen area on November 6, killing eight officers and 31 soldiers and wounding 45 others.
    Two ammunition dumps were*set on fire. The enemy retaliated with aerial bombing, wounding two people.
    On November 4, the Mujahideen fired 50 rockets into Kandahar divisional headquarters, killing 23 soldiers and officers and wounding 15.
    On November 7, Jami'at Mujahideen fired 60 rockets into Kandahar divisional headquarters, killing five and wounding 12 soldiers. Two trucks were also destroyed.
    Firing rockets into enemy positions has continued. Jami'at Islami
Mujahideen in Kandahar are led by Mullah Naqibullah.
                                                  Balkh province
    Jami'at Mujahideen killed one officer and captured 12 soldiers on the road leading to Haiiatan town on the Soviet border on October 17.
    They seized 12 Kalashnikov rifles and one R-108 radio set
    On October 26, Jami'at Mujahideen attacked an enemy post in Kokal Dagh area, on Mazar-Shiberghan road, killing 20 soldiers and capturing two trucks, eight Kalashnikov rifles and one radio set. The enemy lost one truck and one tank in the operation.
    The report is silent about the casualties of the Mujahideen.
                                                Parwan province
    In the first week of November, Jami'at Mujahideen destroyed two enemy security posts in Jabul Serej, at the mouth of the Salang valley, killing seven enemy soldiers and wounding three. The Mujahideen captured four enemy officers.
                                                  Kabul province
    The communist forces suffered heavy casualties when Mujahideen from Jami'at, Harakat (Mohsiny) and Itdhad (Prof. Sayyaf) attacked the enemy garrison of Tapa-e-Pajak in Paghman on October 13.
    The Mujahideen, so far, have been able to capture three-fourths of the garrison. Fighting against the rest of the garrison continues.
    The Mujahideen have captured an ammunition dump and have set several dumps on fire.
    In die first eight days of fighting, 85 enemy soldiers were killed and 130 wounded. The Mujahideen also have
 captured 30 soldiers.
     Three Mujahideen were killed. Seven were wounded, in addition to six civilians. A large number of houses have been destroyed by the enemy's heavy weapons fire.
     The Mujahideen captured 120 heavy and light weapons, six tanks and five trucks. Twenty-eight enemy vehicles were destroyed. The garrison is situated on a hill.
     Mullah Ezat, Jami’at commander, played a key role in the fighting. The spirit of cooperation between the three parties is the main reason for the success of the operation.
     Paghman is a former resort town in the west of Kabul. This area has been the sight of heroic resistance by the Mujahideen during the years of occupation.
     Harakat (Mohsiny) is a Shia party based in Tehran. Its commander near Kabul is Anwari.
     The Mujahideen caused a huge explosion in an enemy ammunition dump in Bagh-i-Daud in Paghman on November 29. The dump burned for several hours, causing losses in men and materials. No details of the casualties were available.
     Commander Mullah Ezat from Paghman reports that Mujahideen rockets have recently hit some important enemy targets in Kabul with precision. Police Academy and the Women's Democratic Organization building woe the two targets hit recently.
                                    Salang
     Heavy fighting along the Salang highway blocked die road for several days, delaying UN supplies bound for KabuL
     Fighting along the highway at several points began in the last week of October.
     The Mujahideen from Jami’at at tacked and blocked the road in Tangi Tashqurghan. Road blocks in North and South Salang and around Charikar city also took place.
     In addition to heavy material losses, the enemy suffered heavy casualties. The Kabul regime made extensive use of long-range rockets and heavy aerial bombing to push the Mujahideen out of their positions.
     The regime combined war efforts
 with propaganda against commanders
 along the highway, such as Sufi
 Payinda of Hezb and Ahmand Shah
 Masood, calling them bandits who
 create food shortages for the civilian
 population. _
                                                                                                                      Turn to page ( 7)
AFGHANews Vol5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page
Tradition creates snag for women's education
    The women's wing of ami'at Islami in Iran pub-ishes a paper called Nida--Khuaharan-e- Musulman The Call of the Muslim Sisters).
    The paper publishes articles about military and >olitical aspects of Jehad, amily life, women's activities, Afghan cooking and other interesting subjects. The paper is edited by luma Faizy.
                                                                                              The women's branch of Jami'at Islami in Iran is quite active. Its members participated the first and second seminars on Afghanistan held in Tehran.
    The activities of the women branch of Jami'at Islami in Pakistan and Iran prove that contrary to enemy propaganda and the perception held in die west, the Mujahideen, and particularly Jami'at, does not oppose the activities of Muslim women which take place in the framework of Islamic Sharia-
    Opening of girls’ schools inside and outside Afghanistan is another proof of Jami'at commitment to the well-being of the women.
    One should be aware that part of the problems facing the women in the Muslim world, including Afghanistan, are rooted in tradition, not from religion. For example, Afghan tradition does not permit calling women by name in front of strangers. The people have started to think that calling the women by their name is un-lslamic. Women are called the mother of so-and-so and the sister, or wife of so-and-so instead of being called by their names.
     It is well-known that calling women by their names is not an anti-Isiamic act. The Holy Quran talks about Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ (peace be upon him), the wife of Adam (peace be upon him), and wife of Solomon (peace be upon him), the sister of Moses (peace be upon him), and wives of the Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him).
     When Taraki's regime took power, he sent his officials to take a census of the population. In the forms that families were supposed to fill out, there were columns in which the names of the women and their ages were to be written down.
     People already suspicious of the communists’ policies started to react, and the war against communist rule
 started.
     Daud and King Zahir faced similar problems because they wanted to impose reforms which emphasized western values. Abolishing Hijab, and compulsory Western dress for women in schools and offices, antagonized the majority of Afghans, who found these policies un-lslamic.
     These policies led to the confinement of educated women in the cities and suspicious among women about schools tun by the government
     Traditional concepts which are thought to be religious need careful handling. The stupid mistakes committed by the communists and the monarchy are worth remembering.
     The Islamic parties in Afghanistan have to solve the problem in clever way. They, have to persuade people instead of forcing them. They also need to show that western dress for women is not part of education and that one can learn without abandoning traditional and Islamic dress.
     An Indian Muslim scholar, Prof. Mohammad Anwar, came to Kabul University during the time of the king. He belonged to one of the Islamic parties in India and had visited Kabul University to persuade Muslim youth to adopt Islamic values.
     He told his audience that he was surprised by the way girl students of the Kabul University and school were dressed. They wore western dress and that was their official uniform. He said that the education was a business of the mind, not of the trousers. Our stupid leaders of the time had linked the two, in order to appear progressive in the eyes of outsiders.
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
ull

Flourish like a flower, But may your life be longer.
Usage: When one is offered some flowers.

No rose is without thorn.
Meaning: No one is perfect.


One flower doesn't bring spring.
 Meaning:One swallow doesn't make spring.
 Usage: Said of a person who tries to do too much himself.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              apiii
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page ©

                                                             ^. P.O.Box 264; Pestovar-.Pakistan Tel: (0521^4:13^1;. ■ ||||
  Editorial
> — . — - ■»
                              Soviet should stop helping the
                               product of an 'illegal invasion'
    Soviet Foreign Minister Edvard Shevardnadze, has said that the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was an illegal and immoral act.
    This is the strongest condemnation of the invasion ever made by a high-ranking Soviet official.
    The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in December of 1979 when the communist regime was facing increasing opposition from the people of that country. The invasion provoked a nation-wide reaction and fighting continued for more than nine years.
    The Soviets did not win the war militarily, and suffered economically and politically because of the aggression.
    Marshal Sergei Akhromeyev, Gorbachev's military advisor, said in an interview with Time Magazine that the invasion of Afghanistan was a scar on the body of Soviet society.
    The marshal said that Soviet youths were especially affected by the war in Afghanistan. "May I say that they will never be themselves again."
    The Soviet leader's criticism of the war encouraged to the mayor of Kabul to call the invasion of 1979 unnecessary.
    The Soviets argued in the past that they sent their troops only after repeated requests by Hafizullah Amin’s regime.
    But when the Soviets invaded, they captured and executed him and some of his aides, and installed Babrak Karmal as the head of state. Babrak and Najib were living in exile. They entered Afghanistan with Soviet forces.
    One can see a clear contradiction in the Soviet current policy towards Afghanistan. If the invasion was immoral and illegal, the product of that intervention is also illegal and immoral.
    The Kabul regime is a direct product of the invasion. Why, then, do the Soviets still try to impose it on the people, by giving it $400 million dollars per month in military and economic aid?
    A statement by the Afghan interim government, which welcomed the statement of the Soviet foriegn minister, asked the Soviet Union to match its words with deeds and stop interference in Afghanistan.
    If the Soviets think that they can impose the illegal Kabul regime on the people of Afghanistan through supply of arms and economic aid, they have not learned their lessons from the Afghan adventure. They will only prolong the suffering of Afghans.
                            US Congressmen fed inaccurate information about Afghanistan
    The statement of a high-ranking State Department official to the US Congress, regarding supplies of arms to the Mujahideen, has been misleading.
    John Kelly, assistant secretary of state, told the House of Representatives on October 26 that his conversation with Afghan resistance leaders did not reveal any current complaint about their supply of arms.
    He went so far as to say that the Mujahideen had what they needed for what they were undertaking.
    In fact the Mujahideen have long been complaining about shortages of arms and ammunition, and no sign of improvement of the situation has been revealed.
    We do not know which Mujahideen leaders Mr. Kelly met But major field commanders have been reporting serious shortages of arms and ammunition.
                                         Turn to page (6)
                                                Diary
                                                     of
     Jehad
                                               From page (6)
of their people in running businesses of all kinds. Emeralds are being dug -by the people and they pay 10% of their earnings to the Mujahideen. Working in the mines is very difficult but the people do it because this is the only way they can support themselves.
    We were told that Mahmood Khan, the Amir of Panjshir and a native of Khench, was in town. I sent a letter to him to inform him of our arrival. In five minutes he was there to meet us. Despite being an important presence, he is always a humble man, kind to the people in need.
    After we drank tea, a jeep was prepared to take us to Rukha. It was a great help. The appearance of the valley had greatly changed from last year. Last year when 1 visited the valley it was dead.
    Except for the trees, which take a lot of time to grow, all varieties of crops were newly cultivated. The air was fresh and healthy. Thanks to the hard work of the people, they had turned a ruined valley into a greenhouse in a short span of time.
    Few houses have been repaired. Shortages of manpower and building materials, lack of resources and the uncertain future are the main reason for the lack of activity in this area. Manpower for the construction work comes from outside the valley.
    Road conditions in the valley had improved This was due to the work of the Reconstruction Committee.
    Building foot bridges and culverts for vehicles was the most obvious construction work done after the liberation of the valley in 1988. The foundation of good work has been laid can be further developed when resources are available.
    The technical skills of the local people helped the reconstruction of the bridges in the valley. A mechanic built an iron bridge from the frames of destroyed Russian trucks. The bridge was beautiful, and the cost of construction was 1/10 of what had been estimated by the engineers.
    A workshop for the vehicles was also functioning in the valley to repair the vehicles and assemble new ones from destroyed trucks. There was no shortage of mechanics in the valley.
-AFGHANews Vol 5, No22, November 15,1989, page©
Who is in the Mujahideen
 Commander Khan Mohammad
   Commander           Khan
Mohammad was born 30 years ago in the village of Char Qulba in the district of Arghandab, Kandahar province.
   His father, Haji Dad Mohammad an Alkozai Push toon, was a poor farmer. Commander Khan Mohammad now a deputy of Mullah Naqeeb, the famous Jami'at commander in Kandahar, studied Holy Quran7 and basics of Islam in the Mosque of his village.
   He joined Mujahideen in 1979 and worked as an unarmed Mujahid for one
year. In 1981, he became a group commander and in 1986 was chosen the deputy of Commander Mullah Naqeeb.
     He has participated in many operations against the Soviets, the biggest was the operation of 1980 in which about 350 Mujahideen and civilians were killed
     His first base was in suburbs of Kandahar and now he has Mujahideen in Dand, Khakraiz and Maroof districts as well.
     He is married and has .three children.
Commander Ubaidullah
    Commander Obaidullah, 31, was born in the Panjwaee district of Kandahar province.
    His father, Shahbaz Khan an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a farmer working on abother's land. Obaidullah completed school in the city of Kandahar and later joined the military college in Kabul. When he was student, the communists took power. He escaped from Kabul and joined the Mujahideen in 1978.
    He formed his group of 50 in
 1979. He established his base in the Panjwaee district of Kandahar from where he still operates. His operational targets axe the security belt around the district and the Supply road reaching the city of Kandahar.
     Among the operations in which he has participated against the Soviets and the puppet regime, the 1979 operation was the largest; the enemy lost 200 men and the Mujahideen 50 fighters:
     He is married and has five children.
Commander Mullah Faiz
    Commander Mullah Faiz, 50, was born in the village of Sangsar of Maiwand district, Kandahar province.
    His father Haji Akhund Zada Sahib, a Noorzoy Pushtoon, was a religious scholar teaching Islamic subjects in Maiwand district. Mullah Faiz studied the basics of, Islam in the mosque in Sangsar where his father was teaching.
    When the communists took power
 in 1978, Mullah Faiz was the Imam ( Prayer leader) in a mosque. He started his Jehad against the Soviets and the puppet regime from 1978 by preaching and participating in fighting. He foimed his own group in 1979 with about 20 people. He established his base in Maiwand district. Later he spread his influence to Panjwaee.
     He is respected as a commander, as a mullah and as a spiritual man. He is married and has seven children.
Commander Abdul Wahab
    Commander Abdul Wahab, 60, was born in Chinar village of Khakraiz district, Kandahar province.
    His father, Mawlawi Dad an Alkozai Pushtoon, was a poor farmer working throughout his life in his own village and other areas in the district on others land. Abdul Wahab studied in the Khakraiz grand mosque the basics of Islam for a very short time and then joined his father to earn something for the survival of the family.
    When the communists took power in 1978, Abdul Wahab was helping his
 father. In late 1987 he contacted commander Mullah Naqeeb who provided him three weapons.
     He established his base in Khakraiz and stayed. He is still based there. He started with ten people to operate against government security posts and built his strength gradually.
     In the fall of 1982, Commander Abdul Wahab participated in an operation in which the enemy lost 100 men and the Mujahideen lost 35 persons He is married and has nine children.
                                                                   $ $ $ $
  Soviet* tleniaiUl end of (JoriHnahjst party's

       By: Habibur Rahman
     On November 7, Moscow, for the first time in 60 years, was a witness to two separate celebrations of the communist revolution.
     The Red Square was the scene of the official celebration with the usual military parade, while seven kilometers away 10,000 Soviet citizens got together to celebrate unofficially. They called for an end to the communist party's monopoly on power.
     72 years ago the communists, under the leadership of Lenin, took power in Moscow and founded die world's first communist regime.
     The two separate ceremonies indicate a division among the Soviets over how the country should be run.
     The monopoly of the communist party has in the past been responsible for oppressive rule in Moscow. Seven decades of dictatorship under the banner of Marxism - Leninism has cost the Soviets a great deal. Not only have the Soviets suffered under the communists' rule, but millions of people outside the Soviet Union have been affected by their policies, directly or indirectly. The tragedy of Afghanistan is a good exam pie: four Soviet leaders were involved, and still it continues.
     Seven decades of dictatorial rule by the communist party could not turn the Soviet Union into a model state, in which men and women enjoyed freedom of speech, freedom to worship God, and economic liberty.
     Ethnic issues in the -Soviet Union and unrest among workers and intellec tuals make clear the need for radical changes in Soviet political, economic and social systems.
     The steps which Mikhail Gorbachev has already taken have not satisfied people. More change is needed.
     The cracks in the Berlin Wall has shaken the Red Empire from its foundation. A writer has truly called the recent developments in the Soviet camp a step towards the end of communism era.
     We would like to see Soviet Union become a more humane power which allows freedom for its people at home, and respects the rights of other nations to live according to their beliefs.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15,1989, page ©
From the Diary of Jehad      Part (4)
           Local talent used to rebuild devastated Panjshir valley
    The first part of the journey to Panjshir was covered by jeep. We drove up to a natural lake, called Houz-i-Veghnan, where my horse was waiting for me. The road from the center of Worsaj to Houz, about 10 kilometers, has been built by the Reconstruction Committee of the Supervisory Council.
    The Veghnan valley is beautiful. We stayed the night in a mountain camp as guests of a few families from Worsaj who go there every summer to graze their livestock. Since I was accompanied by a commander whom the male members of the families knew, we were treated very well.
    We were awakened at 2:00 a.m by the sound of gunfire. A group of Mujahideen were returning from the north and they were impressed by the sight of the tracer bullets in the darkness of the narrow valley.
    We started our journey with them but since we had horses we easily passed the group.
    The pass which we were supposed to cross is called Kotal-i-Zard (Yellow Pass). The name is give to it because of the yellow color of its rocks. It is the highest pass going from Panjshir to the North.
At the other side of the pass nomads had pitched their tents. Their flock was grazing bn both sides of the narrow valley.
    We were invited in for tea and bread. Return of the nomads in large numbers to Panjshir was a sign of the situation’s improvement. Nomads used to come to Panjshir before the war, but aerial bombardments by the Soviets and lack of security along their traditional routes almost ended their yearly summer trips to the highlands of the Hindu Kush. A few groups were an exception. They came during the years of occupation and some of them did great service for the Mujahideen and the refugees during their summer stay. The nomads (known as Koochis) find Panjshir a save haven where the law and order situation is quite good.
    Walking past the farms sown with wheat, sweet pease and broad beans was a good experience. In the afternoon we reached Jishta, a village in the middle of Peryan. We went to the house of an old friend. His house has a special history with regard to my family.
    They had lived there in 1979 after
W
    By: Mohammad EsTiaq
the Mujahideen were forced to retreat to the upper part of the valley by the communists.
    My younger brother, who was a brave fighter and very close to commander Masood, was injured by a home-made hand grenade and later died in the same room. He was buried in the village not far from the house.
e were told the road had been completed to the lower part of Peryan and that it was possible we could catch a vehicle along the way. I decided to leave my horse in the village. The owner of the house promised to look after it without expecting any material reward.
    Early in the mprning we started to walk down the valley. We saw that in one village a group of people were working on the road. The road had made progress. It is being built by hand in the Panjshir. There is no road-building machinery. Engineers from the Reconstruction Committee make the plans, which are applied by the foremen, who had worked in road construction when the Salang highway was being built.
    After having tea in the last village we set off on the driveable road. We were not lucky enough to catch a vehicle, and continued to walk. Some other workers were building a bridge on a river flowing from a side valley. The most difficult part of the 20-kilometer road was a pass called Bamwardar. The slope of the road exceeds 15% in some place, and it was nairow. A group of workers were busy widening the road by blasting rocks.
    We stayed the night in the house of Commander Abdul Mohammad who is known for his precise mortar firing. He often hits a moving truck about five kilometers away with the second round.
    We were given fresh mulberries and apricots, which are the famous fruits of the valley.
    In the morning we started our downward journey hoping to find a vehicle to take us to Rukha (a town in the center of the valley). We waited in a tea house until 10 a.m without success.
    We started to walk. Walking along the flat road hoping to find a vehicle is not very pleasant. We saw many jeeps and trucks parked under the shadow of the mulberry trees. They were not mov-
ing because the fuel was very expensive. The lower we went the more jeeps and trucks (all made in USSR) we saw. I asked the reason for buying so many vehicles. Someone told me that the Mujahideen are thinking of an alternative road to the north through Panjshir. In case Salang is closed, the people could use the new road. A lot of people have bought vehicles to transport goods and people on the new road which is to be built.
    After a one-hour walk we reached Safid Shir town, which was very busy. Shops and restaurants were open. Construction work on a bridge and a mosque was in progress. I met some old friends who invited me for lunch. One of them was kind enough to take me by his jeep to the next town, Khench, about 10 kilometers down the road.
    Khench is a commercial center. Its people are relatively rich. You can find all sorts of goods in the market of the town. The reason for its prosperity is the presence of emerald mines in the mountains of the town, and the ability
           Turn to page (4 )
     Editoral
                                                  From page (4)
    A recent attack on the Salang high-way was called off when the Mujahideen faced shortages of RPG shells.
    In addition to ups and downs of arms deliveries, which Mr. Kelly admits, the Mujahideen must now fight an offensive war, which requires a tremendous amount of arms and ammunition.
    In the face of massive Soviet supplies being sent to the regime, the shortages of arms and ammunition is serious indeed.
    Over-optimism in the Reagan-era State Department raised expectations to a dangerous level, and the resistance suffered as a result. The present inaccurate statements by American officials could be even more harmful because our struggle has entered a very critical stage.
    John Kelly is right when he says the Afghans are determined to continue their struggle. But that is not because they have everything they need.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 22, November 15,1989, page @
 AMNESTY REPORT ON VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
AI says regime still tortures Afghan political prisoners
      Many hundreds of teal or suspected opponents of the government were be-: ieved to be imprisoned, including possible prisoners of conscience. In September the government announced that they were holding 2,125 political prisoners, and that more than 7,600 others, most of whom had been held for political reasons, had been released since the beginning of 1988. Amnesty International could not confirm these figures but received reports suggesting that many of those released were transferred directly to military service. Some political prisoners were sentenced after trials by Special Revolutionary Courts which did not conform to international standards. There were reports of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, although on a lesser scale than in previous years. There were also reports of extra-judicial executions by Afghan security forces and Soviet troops.
      On 14 April, 1988 the Geneva accords to settle the Afghan conflict were signed by the governments of Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United States of America and the Soviet Socialist Republics. The accords provided for the withdrawal of half the Soviet troops in Afghanistan by 15 August and the remainder by 15 February 1989. They also required the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan to refrain from using force and engaging in subversive activities across each other's frontiers. The Afghan armed opposition groups, the Mujahideen, however, were not a party to the accords and refused to be bound by them. Consequently, despite the phased withdrawal of Soviet troops, the conflict continued unabated with arms supplied to the Mujahideen by the USA and Pakistan, and to the Afghan Government by the USSR. Between January and July over 100,000 Afghans were reported to have fled the fighting and entered Pakistan, although the government said almost 40,000 returned to Afghanistan between January and August under the official policy of national reconciliation. At the end of the year, over five million Afghans remained in exile, mostly in Pakistan and Iran. They constituted the largest refugee group in the world.
       Information about human rights violations continued to be difficult to obtain and corroborate as a result of the war and social dislocation. However,
 Professor Felix Eimacora, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan, was allowed to visit a number of detention centers and prisons, including Pul-e-Charkhi Prison in Kabul, during his two visits to Afghanistan in January and September. The visits formed the basis of a report submitted to the UN Human Rights Commission in March and of an interim report to the UN General Assembly in October.
     The Mujahideen reportedly carried out a number of attacks which resulted in civilian deaths. They woe also alleged to have killed several prisoners. For example, three wounded Soviet soldiers, captured during an attack on a military convoy near the village of Dila in Kandahar province, were reported to have been summarily killed. (Passage (Knitted)
     Special Revolutionary Courts continued to impose sentences, including the death penalty, after summary trials conducted without defence counsel. Witnesses were rarely produced and the accused were allowed only 15 to 30 minutes to defend themselves.
     There were reports of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners at security police interrogation centers, Sarandoi, para-military police headquarters, prisons and Soviet military posts. In one case, a former government employee said that after his arrest in October, as a suspected Mujahideen supporter, he was kept in a cage for 20 days at the Sarandoi headquarters in the Shar-e-Nau locality of Kabul. During the first three days, he was punched, kicked in the stomach, beaten with sticks and rifle-butts and threatened with death by Sarandoi personnel. He was later released but at the end of the year he was still suffering from injuries inflicted during his detention. Another prisoner, a member of the Mujahideen who was captured in combat in May, was reportedly taken to Soviet military headquarters at Soor Kala in Parwan province. He was denied food for three days and then tortured repeatedly for three weeks. He was kicked, punched and beaten with sticks and rifle-butts during interrogation by Soviet military personnel. He was still suffering from psychological and physical injuries in October when he was at last able to obtain medical treatment.
                                                                                                               There were reports of extra-judicial
 executions by Afghan government forces and Soviet troops. One incident occurred at Kolalgu village in Paktia province where, according to survivors and eye-witnesses, Soviet and Afghan troops extra-judicially executed nine captured Mujahideen on 16 January. They forced 12 of them into the village mosque, placed explosives inside, then detonated them by means of a cable. Nine of the 12 prisoners were killed. The explosion also caused the deaths of seven children when an adjacent house collapsed on them.
    In May Amnesty International published a report, Afghanistan: Unlawful Killings and Torture. It described the Kolalgu incident and other extra-judicial executions of civilians in 1987, including some who were attempting to seek refuge abroad, reportedly committed by Afghan and Soviet forces. The report also detailed cases of alleged torture of prisoners by Afghan and Soviet personnel in 1987.
    In April Amnesty International appealed to President Najibullah and to the Soviet authorities to insure that allegations of torture and extra-judicial executions would be fully and impartially investigated and that those found responsible be brought to justice.
      News
                                                 From page (2)
                                                Farah province
    Six children, eleven women and two men were martyred, and six women injured at a wedding party in the Shindand district of Farah province, when the communist regime's artillery shelled the district on October 27, MIDIA reported.
    The bride and groom escaped death, but most of the victims are from among the in-laws.
                                                Logar province
    11 local inhabitants were killed and 15 houses destroyed in Zargahon Shahr and Dobandi areas of Logar province, when the communist government heavily bombed the regions on October 30, said Matiullah Mujahid, who arrived in Peshawar
AFGHANews* Vol 5, No 22, November 15, 1989, page ©
Soviets ask British Lord to arrange exchange of POWs
    Lord Bethel, a member of the European parliament who works for the release of POWs, has said that the Kabul regime has given him a list of 11,000 people killed by the communists after they came to power in 1978.
    He completed a five-day visit to Kabul, at the invitation of the Soviets, to secure release of Soviet prisoners of war. During his stay in Kabul he visited the Puli-Charkhi prison.
    Lord Bethel has been able to secure the release of three Mujahideen from the Kabul regime.
    He met with Prof. Mujaddidi, the President of the Interim Government, discussing with him the issue of the exchange of prisoners. He has advised the Mujahideen to release some Soviet
prisoners.
     The Soviets say that there are 313 missing soldiers who are thought to have been captured by the Mujahideen.
     A few months ago, the mothers of some of the missing soldiers came to Pakistan to lobby for the release of the prisoners.
     The Mujahideen have indicated that they are ready for a total exchange of Soviet prisoners with the Mujahideen prisoners. There are no exact figures for Mujahideen in regime captivity, but some estimate the number to reach several thousand.
     The Mujahideen also claim that some of the prisoners are kept in the Soviet Union. The Soviets have denied any presence of Mujahideen prisoners on Soviet soil.
 US special envoy discusses Afghan situation with the resistance leaders
     The US special envoy to the Mujahideen, Peter Tomsen, has begun his third trip to Pakistan to discuss the Afghan situation with resistance leaders.
     He met the president of the interim government. Prof Mujaddidi, and minister of reconstruction. Prof. Rabbani, on November 8. In additon to Peshawar, he will visit Quetta and Islamabad.
     The present military and political situation was the main topic the US envoy discussed with the resistance leaders.
     The stalemate in the military situ-
                                                                                       Fighting prevents holding elections
    Maulawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG and the leader of Hezb Islami (Khalis group), has said that because of the war, conditions are not suitable for holding elections in Afghanistan.
    Two parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) and NIFA (Gailani), are asking for elections for a council to endorse the Interim Government.
    Other parties, while accepting in principle the idea of holding general elections, argue that holding polls is not practical at the moment, and that work to pave the way for holding elections should continue.
 arion has alarmed the US government. Among political issues, broadening the base of the interim government, and how to gain the support of Zahir Shah for the interim government, are much discussed. .
     US officials publicly met Zahir Shah some weeks ago in search of a political solutioin to the problem.
     By not recognizing the interim government, the US government has left its options open in search of a political solution.
     In the past two weeks, other US experts have visited Pakistan to reassess the situation.
                                  November 10,1989 Aqrab 19,1368
 Max (C°) Min.
Kabul       13  7  
      rain 3mm     
Salang      -6  -7 
      rain 11mm    
Jabulseraj  15  7  
      rain 11mm    
Chekhcharan 9   -7 
rain 7mm           
Herat 12        3  
rain 4mm           
Faizabad 9      4' 
rain 8mm           
Shiberghan   13 7  
Mazar        13 9  
Kunduz       14 9  
Farah       20  6  
Zaranj       23 9  
Jalalabad    26 11 

                  Please help us publish AFGHANews!
   Dear reader.
   We have been sending you AFGHANews free for some time. As you know, our resources are shrinking daily and we find we must ask you for help.
   If you would like AFGHANews to be published and sent to you, please send your donations to the following account number:
   JEHAD
   Account No. 735-37
   Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala
   (Jehangirabad) Peshawar- Pakistan