| 1M THE NAME Or ALMIGHTY ALLAH 1
AFGH ANnews
               A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN
                   POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                        VOL. Ill, NO. 9, 1/5/1987.
                                       THE HOLY MONTH OF RAMADHAN
 The beginning of May will coincide with the beginning of Raaadhan this year. ' Ramadhan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar. It is the month in which the Holy Quran was first revealed to prophet Mohammad (P3.U.H.). It is the month in which a Muslim must fast from dawn to dusk according to the command of the Holy . Quran. Islamic fasting means abstention from eating, drinking and sexual intercourse during the day and of course abstention from indecent and thinking, talking and action as well.                        *.
                             f
 Islamic fasting has a great philosophy about which many books have been written. The significance of spiritual, psychological, moral, social, economic and physical aspects of fasting is difficult to fathom. Just to have an idea, here we note some salient significances of fasting.
 Spiritually, fasting puts a Muslim in continuous touch with his Creator. A Muslim fasts only for the sake of the God. Social pressure and other factors that could play some role in Salat (prayer), Zakat (poor-due) and Ha) (pilgrimage to Mecca) have no place whatsoever in making a person keep his fast. Therefore, whenever a muslim is tempted to satisfy his basic natural desires for food, drink and sex and he curtails them, he knows that he is doing this at the Command of his Creator. Thus he remembers Him. praises him, seeks His Help to fulfill his obligations and grows spiritually.
 Psychologically, fasting strengthens a Muslim s willpower and teaches him self-control, self-discipline and patience. The willpower, like other human capabilities, will not develop unless it is put into practice. Daily prayers are one way of practicing the willpower (getting op for prayer early at dawn, for example). But fasting is a much stilTer practice. It also leads to practicing more self-control, self-discipline and having patience during times of adversity and hardship.
 Morally, fasting develops in a Muslim a sound conscience and sympathy with his fellow humans. When a person is true to his God, he will be true to himself and to others. When he loves his Creator, he will love His creation as well. Then he suffers hardship, he will sympathize with those who are suffering and will do something to alleviate their pain.
 Socially, fasting brings about more unity, brotherhood and co-operation among Muslims. When a Muslim fasts, he realizes that at the same moment millions of others are fasting along with him. This develops in him a sense of belonging and social consciousness. He manifests his spirit of brotherhood and co-operation by more participation in daily congregational prayers as well as Tarawaih (a special prayer offered at Ramadhan nights). He invites people for dinner - as encouraged by the Prophet (P.B.U.H.). All the residents of a city or village get together in one or a few central mosques for Eid Prayer at the end of Ramadhan..., and there are many other social functions during Ramadhan or immediately after it.
 Economically, fasting teaches the value of food stuff to well-to-do Muslims and encourages them to be mindfyl of wasting it. It also plays a role in conserving the limited supplies of food. To make a simple calculation, suppose every fasting Muslim conserves only half a kilogram of wheat for each day that he fasts. If 500 million Muslims fast for 30 days in a year, the total conservation will come to 7 5 million tons of wheat in a year!                                                      __________
                    8FGURH HEUS UOL-III, HO.9, 1/5/ 198? PAGE 2
------------1
 Physically, far from harming the body, fasting has good effect on the health. Of course ‘ there are certain exceptions which Islam recognizes. The traveling person, a person who is sick or too old, a women who has her monthly period or has given birth to a baby, and also an expecting and a breast-feeding mother are exempted from fasting. A Mujahid who is fighting in the battle-field is also exempted. Other than the exceptions, the medical science has proved that fasting cleans up the digestion system, takes away the extra fat and poisons stored and the body.
 The above survey of the significances of fasting is understandably brief, But it show’s what a marvelous institution Islamic fasting is. It is also important to note here the significance of fasting for Afghanistan Jehad.
 It is clear that the Afghan Mujahideen began their fight against the athieSts and have carried it out so far for the sake of God. The Mujahideen's determination and patience and perseverance in facing hardships and difficulties are unmatched. They have waged a relentless war against a "superpower" with bare feet, empty hands and empty stomachs. Fasting among other Islamic teachings has certainly played an important
 role in preparing the Mujahideen for undertaking their heroic task.
                                        :
 8/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mohmand Dara district who were supported by the Mujahideen from Hezb and Jabha attacked the enemy posts of Shinwar. After losing 3 men the puppets abandoned the posts.The Mujahideen captured some food stuff. Three Mujahideen were injured during the operation.
 5/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Ghani Khail regiment and security posts in Kada Farm, with heavy weapons. The enemy suffered casualties, the number of which were not immediately known. The Mujahideen returned safely to their bases.
 2/4/1987. The enemy forces attacked Mujahideen positions in Qarabagh district. Heavy fighting took place from 6:30 am to 4:00 pm of the same day. More than 50 enemy soldiers were killed or wounded. Four Mujahideen were martyred, one captured and 16 others wounded.
 14/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mirbacha Koot district clashed with the enejy forces. Fighting continued for 3 hours. One tank, one APC and two enemy trucks were
 «
                  FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                               NANGARHAR PROVINCE
                                  NORTH OF KABUL
flFOHfiH HtlB Ufil.III, NO, 9, 1/5/ 196T PflBC 3
 destroyed. The enemy bombed the area with artillery as a result of which 6 houses were destroyed and 9 sheep belonging to the poor people of the area were killed
 11/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Mirbacha Koot district ambushed an enemy convoy and destroyed several tanks and trucks. The enemy retaliated with an artillery bombardment of the bazaar. A large number of old men, women and children were killed or injured, A bus was bit and took fir®. The occupants of the bus were either killed or injured. The report does not give any figure for the casualties of the Mujahideen or the enemy forces.
                                                  LOGAR PROVINCE
 3/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at in Logar province under the command of Commander Fazluliah launched a series of attacks against the enemy base in Pul-i-Alam * and some of their security posts in the area with heavy weapons. Attacks continued for two successive nights. As a result of the attacks 4 APCs, 14 trucks and a fuel dump were set on fire. Both Soviets and puppets suffered casualties.
 Logar is a strategic province located South of Kabul. Logistic lines of the resistance pass through there. The road connecting Kabul to Paktia also passes through Logar. The resistance has been active since 1978 in the province and all the resistance parties work in harmony together. Most of the population of this province have become refugees in Pakistan Due to the flatness of the ground which has little cover, the enemy has been able to put a lot of pressure on the Mujahideen.
                                                BAGHIAN PROVINCE
 28/3/1987. Both Mujahideen and the enemy forces suffered heavy casualties in six days of fighting in the city of Baghian
 They launched a big attack against Mujahideen in the Industrial area of Baghian and wanted to circle and supress the Mujahideen forces. In the first stage they were able to besiege the Mujahideen forces but the Mujahideen broke the siege by attacking from inside and outside the siege circle. Mujahideen from Jami'at under the command of Mullah Shams and Mujahideen from Hezb under the command of Mamoor Ghayoor fought the enemy together. Their co-operation and heroic resistance averted a big disaster. The losses of the two sides are as follows.
 Enemy losses:
        1- Thirty-one tanks and APCs were destroyed either by RPG fire or land mines
        2- More than 300 puppets and Soviet forces were killed and wounded.
        3- Twenty AK-47s were captured by the Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen losses are as follows:
        1- Thirty-five Mujahideen were martyred.
        2- Twenty civilians were martyred.
        3- Twenty-nine Mujahideen were captured
        4- Forty-eight Mujahideen were injured.
        5- Sixty weapons of different kinds and some ammunition were lost to the enemy.
        6- A large number of houses and gardens were destroyed and crops set on fire.
                                                 BALKH PROVINCE
 15/4/1987, An enemy jet was shot down with DShK fire in Sholgar district The Jet crashed near Ahmad Abad village. The report does not mention the type of the plane.
 9/1/1987. Enemy forces attacked Mujahideen positions in Goor Taipa area. Fighting continued from 5 to 6:00 pm. A large number of enemy forces, including one puppet
AFGHAN NEUS VOL.Ill, HO.9, 1/5/ 1907 PAGE 4
officer were lulled. Mujahideen captured 5 AK 47s and one R-105 communication set. One Mujahid was martyred and ten others wounded.
                                             HERAT PROVINCE
2/4/1987. A lar£<? force of the enemy which was supported by armored units and gunship helicopters attached the Western part of the city. The purpose of the enemy was to drive the Mujahideen from that area. Mujahideen infiltrated the security belt drawn around the city and operated inside the city. Mujahideen are resisting the enemy and fighting still continues. So far no details about the casualties of the two side are available
The year 1986 witnessed several offensives and counter-offensives for the control of * the Western part of city. The enemy was able to build some security posts but failed to-stop the Mujahideen's infiltration into the town. Ismaeel Khan is the Chief Commander of Jami'at in Herat.
                                            FARYAB PROVINCE
23/1/1987. Mujahideen attacked-two enemy posts in Kohi Khana, one Km. East of Maimana city. Nine puppets were captured and one killed. Mujahideen captured 13 guns and some ammunition.
                       THERE ARE BLOOD-STAINS ON THE GORBACHEV SUIT
                                                  ANDERS FANGE
 The evening before going home to Sweden, 1 visited the Afghan poet Khalilullah Khalili. He is 83 years old, now living in retirement in exile in Pakistan, but his poems about the resistance and the war are read all over Afghanistan.
 We talk about tho prospects for peace, and how to interpret the Russian overtures which have succeeded each other during the last months.
 He is not optimistic, thinking that the Russians are playing a political game without any intentions of releasing their hold of Afghanistan. I argue that after all so much has happened 3:7 thero is a mrtp-in cause for hope.
 "How can we hope ?,* he replies. "How can we hope after all the blood, after all those who have died, after all the wrongs these barbarians have done to us. How can we dare believe in anything good about them." "No, for us." he continues, "there is only the possibility of continuing as before, to continue fighting.”
 Twenty-four hours later I was back home in Sweden, where I was informed about what has been said about Afghanistan on television and in the newspapers during the last months.
 Certainly I know already that every now and then the principles within our Swedish mass media leave much to be desired, but never did I believe that it would be enough for a Russian leader, favorable to reform, a Mikhail Gorbachev, who smilingly says a few words about peace in Afghanistan to make us totally forget that the war is still going on, that it is going on with unabated force, that Afghan women and children are still dying and being mutilated, that people are still fleeing in their thousands across the borders away from the terror of the Russian war machinery, that the bombs are still falling and that Mikhail Gorbachev is in fact the highest placed person responsible for that policy for the last two years,
 Just as it was right to shout "Nixon Murderer" during the Viet Nam war, it is right to shout "Gorbachev Murderer" today.
BFGHRH HEUS UOl.lll, H0.9j 1/5/ 1W7 PROE 5
Take the "Expressen', for example, which does not publish a requested article on the Soviet bomb terror ia Pakistan on the plea that "it does not seem timely.".
Take the Dagens Nyheter which has refused a number of topical articles on Afghanistan, and where, after the Afghan traitor Najib's overture for an armistice and reconciliation, an editorial urged the Afghan resistance movement to lay down their arms, and where, since then there have been no comments whatsoever on the Soviet bomb attack on Pakistani territory which claimed about a hundred human lives and which were carried out simultaneously with the start of the Geneva talks on Afghanistan.
INVITED TO SAVE AFGHANISTAN!
Take Elisabeth Hedborg, just back from Moscow, who, in the television program Magasinet. praises Gorbachev to the skies, completely, without even a trace of criticism or second thoughts. Maybe she has a portrait of her idol on the wall above her writing-table
                                                      a
It is hardly that they do not know, that they are lacking information about the fact that the murdering is still going on in Afghanistan. The news cable are still arriving, newspapers are still writing.
No, it is rather that they do not find it important, that it does not seem - in the words of the Expressen - timely. In the world of the mass media there is only room for one main issue at a lime, and with the sanguine eulogies upon Gorbachev there is no room for Afghanistan . This, of course, is the ultimate critical test whether the man is serious in his talk about peace and freedom. The blood in Afghanistan stands out in glaring contrast to the light-colored picture.
Certainly we should ourselves hope. We have not, as the old poet Khalilullah Khalili, seen our country being rapped and our people slaughtered, so we can dare to hope. But let us not even just hope, because then we do the grossest disservice both to ourselves and to the people of Afghanistan. Let us realize that the old poet Khalilullah Khalili is right when he says the only possibility is to continue fighting
He is right because the army of occupation is still standing with its legs wide apart on the soil of Afghanistan, because the Soviet leadership is continuing its war of terror against the Afghan people in contravention of international law.
He is right because so far the Geneva talks on Afghanistan have not produced a reasonable time-table for a the withdrawal of the troops and much less a guarantee for the restoration of the national sovereignty of Afghanistan._________________________
AFGHAN HEMS UOl.llt, HO.9, 1/5/ 190? PAGE 6
He is right because the Soviet Union is still exerting political pressure as veil as military, as with the bomb terror - upon the Pakistani government to make it give up its fundamental policy and come to an agreement vith the Russians over the heads of the Afghans. And the negotiations betveen the US and the Soviet Union about regional conflicts should be seen in that context as well. It has happened before that the great powers have come to terms at the expense of smaller nations.
Khalilullah Khalili is right because the game for Afghanistan is still going on to the highest possible degree, and because politics - also for Mikhail Gorbachev - is the art of the possible.
When he talks about peace in Afghanistan, he does not talk about peace for the Afghan people but about the peace which it is possible for him to attain. He represents f superpower, and let us not for a moment imagine that he would withdraw any troops out of sheer and pure benevolence. He may be a new kind of Soviet leader, but that damned new he is not.
Yes. the old poet is right that the fateful hour for the people of Afghanistan is getting closer, and that, for this very reason, they now need the support of world opinion more than ever. And if the mass media in our country do not take their responsibility, if the only reactions Gorbachev gets-from here are rose-shimmer, idol hysteria, cheers and fan letters, then they will be nothing but a contribution to a Soviet peace in Afghanistan
Let Gorbachev know that the blood-stains on his suit are visible. In spite of all his talk about peace they are visible and they will remain visible until the day when Afghanistan is free again.
                             DENAIU MET THE RESISTANCE LEADERS
The Vice President of the Foreign Committee of the French National Assembly, Mr. Jean Francois Denaiu met the Resistance leaders on 22,4, 1987 and talked to them about the situation in Afghanistan. Prof. B. Rabbani. leader of Jami'al Islam! Afghanistan, was present along with other leaders
Mr Denaiu had come to Pakistan for an evaluation of the situation in Afghanistan. Some time ago he was appointed by the French Prime Minister to study the situation and prepare a report to be presented to him. He also met Pakistani officials during his stay in Pakistan.
                           AFGHANISTAN ISSUE AND NAM LEADERSHIP
Cuba was the leader of the NAM when the Soviets invaded Afghanistan. Cuba supported the invasion, something which everybody expected. India took office after Cuba. The tragedy was continuing. Rajiv did not dare to condemn the Soviet invasion openly.
Zimbabwe became the leader of this movement. Some people expected that this country might do a better job. But that country's decision to open diplomatic ties with the puppet regime in Kabul disappointed every body.
Recently the puppet regime announced that diplomatic relations on the embassy level will start between the two countries from April first 1987.
Afghanistan is an occupied country. The invaders are the Soviets. The puppet regime has been brought to power by the Soviets and its survival depends on the presence of the Soviet troops. Lately the Soviets have admitted that their invasion of Afghanistan was a mistake Against this background we do not see any justification in opening diplomatic ties with the puppet regime, It can not be more than a step to please the Soviets and give a color of legatimicy to the puppet regime_______________
RfGHRH HEUS UOL.III, HO.9, 1/5/ I9B7 PROE 7
This decision is against the spirit of the resolutions of the NAM in which the right for self-determination by the people of Afghanistan is emphasized. If the present regime in Kabul were legal and popular what was the need for including the item of "the right for self-determination” in the UN, NAM and Islamic Conference resolutions.
Soviet economic and military aid for Zimbabwe can be a factor. Non-aligned countries must be sad to have a leader who barter support for a puppet regime with aid from an invader. Cuba supported aggression, India kept silent about it and Zimbabwe is trading on it.
                                           TREATMENT OF POWS
Proper treatment of the prisoners is an humanitarian matter which the resistance isf fully 8ware of . Being Muslims, Afghans step out of reciprocity principles and treat their prisoners well The resistance has captured both Soviet and puppet soldiers and
officers.
Soviet Prisoners
The number of Soviets captured by the resistance compared to the puppet troops is very small. Soviet prisoners are treated in an exceptional way. They are fed well and never forced to say something they do not want to say. In short, they are treated like guests. This type of treatment has had its effect and some of the captured Soviet soldiers have decided to stay with the Mujahideen and have even accepted Islam as their religion. In some cases Soviet prisoners have misused the freedom they were given and escaped back to their units and passed information they had got to their officers But these cases did not change the good treatment of the prisoners by the Mujahideen. Some Soviet prisoners have been given to the Red Cross-(without the Mujahideen receiving in return ) and some found their way to the Vest. This way of unilateral treatment will continue in the future.
The Soviets on the Other hand treat Mujahideen and civilian prisoners badly. U9e of torture and all sorts of deprivation is common in prisons in the Soviet occupied areas.While the Soviets are aggressors and their soldiers fight in a foreign land against local people for no good reason, still the Mujahideen treat them well. Vhile we are victims they are treating our prisoners badly. The difference between the two is as much as the difference between aggression and self-defense.
Puppet Prisoners
Puppet prisoners are divided into the following categories:
1 - Spies
KHAD sends hundreds of spies, men, women and even children. Women and children are delivered back to their relatives after getting assurance that they will not repeat their actions. Those children who do not have parents are sent to Pakistan to be educated in the Orphanages run by the Mujahideen.
Men spies are tried. In most cases they will be tried properly. The judges of the Mujahideen are usually God-fearing Islamic scholars who pay close attention the specific conditions of each case.
2-  Ordinary Soldiers
The conscripts are immediately released. They will be helped to join their families.
3- Officers
Non-communist officers who were fighting because they were soldiers will be forgiven. The communist members, who are generally criminals will be tried.
BFGHfW HEUS UOt.lM, HO.9, 1/5/ 1967 PAGE 8
Exchange of prisoners
In some areas Mujahideen have succeeded in exchanging prisoners with the puppets and even the Soviets. Sometimes the differences of opinion between Soviet and puppets have brought disaster to the prisoners. In 1984, an agreement was about to be reached to exchange more than 200 prisoners in Panjshir. The Soviets did not like the idea and launched a major offensive. All the prisoners were killed by bombing or in the crossfire between the two sides.
Mujahideen Prisons
Despite all the risks Mujahideen are running prisons. Having a prison means more responsibility. The enemy usually attack the prisons to release the prisoners and mak£ use of their information for military purposes When an offensive is launched keeping a large number of prisoners is a problem. Despite all that the Mujahideen keep prisons to make sure that justice is not sacrificed for security concerns.
All the above show that the Mujahideen; are concerned about the life of human beings; try to be just and even do not apply the principles of reciprocity in treatment of the enemy prisoners. This lakes root from the human nature of the resistance which is effected by the Islamic spirit oT forgiveness, proper treatment of all human beings and fighting the war on a moral basis
                                          A LETTER TO THE EDITOR
                                                   Capetown
                                                   22/3/1987.
.... How ashamed we are that all we can contribute are words and we can but console ourselves with the thought that you do, at least, know and understand our position and are praying for us in our own struggle against a Kufr and satanic regime and so in the spirit are fusing with us as ever we are fusing with you ....
                                                   Ismail Joubert Director Propagation Al-Jihaad South Africa,
                                       FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                       A RUSSET JUMPED INTO THE FIRE
It was the summer of 1984. The 7th offensive was continuing. In a side valley, 5 Kms. away from a Soviet garrison the Mujahideen had their base. They were attacking die enemy with heavy weapons, sitting in ambush against their patrol, planting mines on the roads they were using and attacking the isolated posts; the type of things which guerrillas usually do.
The Soviets launched an attack against the Mujahideen in this narrow side vaUey. Their jets and helicopters bombed the area and their ground forces advanced towards the positions of the Mujahideen. One enemy helicopter was hit by DSchK fire and was shot down. It look fire The helicopter was an MI-24 type and flown by a Soviet pilot.The pilot managed to gel out of the crashed helicopter without being harmed. He saw the Mujahideen who were trying to capture him. The pilot waited a few moment and then returned to the burning plane and entered into the flames.
Why did he make such a hard decision? The reason is simple The Soviets have fabricated a lot of stories about the Mujahideen's mistreatment of their prisoners and the Soviet soldiers have accepted the propaganda. Soviet personnel in Afghanistan live in military camps with very little contacts with the local population. They are not
RFGHRN HEUS UOl.MI, HO.9, 1/5/ 196? PRGE 9
familiar with the Afghans language, religion and way of life. They are closely watched not to make contacts with Afghans. Under these circumstances false propaganda works The Soviets' propaganda is launched to minimize the chances of their soldiers desertion or surrender during active combat
This explains why the Soviet pilot jumped into the fire instead of surrendering to the Mujahideen . This also explains why there are so few deserters and prisoners from the Red Army at the hand of the Mujahideen Soviet propaganda and their soldiers' ignorance about the Resistance has stopped the majority of the Soviet soldiers from ending a criminal war and leaving the army. They do not know that some of their fellows who chose to desert or surrender were given a choice of staying with the Mujahideen or go where they liked
                                  TWO COMMANDERS ASSASSINATED
 Aamer Gholam a prominent commander from Harakat Inqilab Islami was assassinated' a month ago. He had a base in Foloul area in Nehrin district. He was co-operating with the Mujahideen from Jamiat in their efforts to bring unity among the Mujahideen in the area
 The exact cause of the assassination was not known but difficulties inside his own party could be a factor in his assassination. All the Mujahideen in the area, especially the Mujahideen from Jami at Islami were shocked when heard the sad news of his death. The sad demise of Aamer Gholam is a loss to the cause of Jehad,
 It also has been reported that 3 weeks ago Commander Abdul Wadood, Hezb Islami commander in Keshm district of Badakhshan province was assassinated. The assassins are from the local people but the motive behind the action is not known.
 Commander Abdul Wadood was the younger brother of late Dr. Umar one of the students leaders in the Islamic movement who was executed by the Daud regime. Wadood's death is a loss for the resistance.
                     CROSS-BORDER OPERATION WHICH THE SOVIETS ADMIT
                                                 •
 In the last few month, the Soviet news media has admitted that Mujahideen recently have made at least two attacks inside the Soviet territory Such attacks have also been repored by the Mujahideen.
 Let us see what is the nature of such attacks and how serious they could be from the resistance point of view? And Why the Soviet media isadmitting the occurance of such incidents?
 Attacks launched inside the Soviet territory are of a limited nature They are small scale and happen occasionally. We do not know of any major planned operation against the Soviet territory The reason is simple The Soviets try to give the impression that their invasion of Afghanistan is an act of self-defense to protect the Central Asian Republics against ideological and direct military threats Even some analysts have considered this fear to be a major factor in their decision to invade Afghanistan.
 Repetition of large scale military operations inside the Soviet Union can be used to justify their naked invasion. While the Mujahideen have the military capabilities to carry out larger attacks inside the enemy territory, they have limited themselves to fighting the enemy inside Afghanistan to expose the expansionist nature of the Soviet invasion
 Isolated and small scale attacks inside Soviet territory can be the work of some local commanders who resort to such actions after watching Soviet atrocities against their people
RFBHflH NEWS VOL .111, NO.g, 1/S(' 1907 PftCE 10
 As far as the Soviets are concerned, they have carried out cross border operations since their invasion of 1979. Even before their invasion, Soviet military planes very often crossed the border for reconnaissance purposes (the ■writer was a witness to such an incursion in October of 1979 in Badakhshan province),
 During the major offensives Soviet border guards cross the border to operate against the Mujahideen, and commandos are airlifted from the other side of the Oxus river to the battle fields in the North, North-East and North-West parts of the country. Bombing of the villages of Afghans by planes flown from the bases inside the Soviet territory is a common practice. Border puppet posts are supplied from Soviet territory and even they are provided with heavy weapons support fire. Prisoners taken from the border areas in Afghanistan are flown to the Soviet Union and after interrogation are, delivered to the puppets. It has been seen that during the operations Soviet soldiers load their helicopters with captured goods and even animals and take them to the Soviet Union.
 The Soviet news media discloses the attacks on Soviet territory to justify their massacres and large scale "circle and suppress” operations in the North of Afghanistan. Such an attack was launched against Imam Sahib in Qunduz province a month ago which left a trail of death and destruction behind it.
 In short, Soviets cross border operations are common and those of the Mujahideen are isolate incidents. The Soviets try to use the isolated incidents to justify their massacres and other forms of atrocities.
 As far as the idealogical threat to the central Asian Republics are concerned the threat comes from the Soviet system itself The people of this area were Muslims with a rich cultural heritage. Soviets crushed their culture and attacked their religion. The suppressive measures taken by the Soviet leaders did not eliminated the love of Islam from the hearts of Muslims. Racial discrimination, imposition of the Russian language and culture and lack of freedom are the common causes of dis-satisfaction among the Muslims in the Soviet Union The problems of this sort has their roots in the Soviet system The struggle of the people of Afghanistan is for the liberation of their country and it does not have a direct link with the situation there. If this war for the liberation has an indirect effect on the people of Central Asia, the warlords of the Kremlin must be blamed for it because they invaded Afghanistan and forced the people of that country to defend themselves against aggression.
                                              AIRLINK WITH DUBAI
 The puppet regime has announced the resumption of their airlink with Dubai Although the commercial element of such activity is not considerable, the puppets are using this for political reasons.
 There is a saying in Afghanistan ” If the handle of an axe is not from a tree, it can not cut it down”. If Islamic countries had fulfilled their responsibilities by cutting their relationship with the Soviet invaders and their puppets in Afghanistan, the tragedy in Afghanistan would have come to an end much earlier. Conservative policies towards this regime and the Soviet invaders have encouraged the puppets and the Soviets to be hopeful about the future,
 We hope that the United Arab Emirates will pay attention to the political dimension of such a deal with a puppet regime which has been brought to power by Soviet troops, and revise its position. If Arabs boycott, Israel because of the occupation of Palestine, they should apply this rule to the Soviets who have occupied Afghanistan.If they are hesitant to take such a step against the Soviet Union which is a superpower, there is no justification for such deals with their puppets who have no legal status and is the enemy of Islam.
                                                          am
                                           | M THE NAME OF ALMICHTT ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
           A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAM I'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN
               POST OFFICE BOX 264, PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                  VOL. IILN0.10, 15/5/1987.
                            EDUCATION IN EMBATTLED AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                          (‘ACKU?
 "Seeking knowledge is obligatory to every Muslim.         V          . J
 “Seek knowledge even (if it Is as far as) In China."          V
 Thus commanded the Prophet of Islam. The Muslims followed the commands of their Prophet and were able to establish a glorious civilization in less than a hundred years. Prophet Muhammad's emphasis on seeding Knowledge stemmed from the teachings of the Holy Quran. From the Quranic point of view, education is so important that God Almighty swears “By the Pen and by the (record) which (menhrrite" (The Quran, 6$:1). The first verses of the Quran which were revealed to Muhammad (P.B.U.H.) stated:
 Proclaim; And thy lord Is Most Bountiful He who taught (the use of) the pen,
 Taught man that which he knew not. (96: 3-9)
 Islam's emphasis on education, liie its other commandments, are for the improvement of human life in this world as well as in the Hereafter. Afghan Mujahideen have realized this fact. They know that through education they will become better and more fruitful members of human society They know that through education they can increase their military capabilities and become better freedom fighters. They know that they need education in order to be able to preserve their extremely rich cultural heritage, which is in danger from Sovietization Thus, while fighting a fierce battle against an atrocious and savage enemy, the Mujahideen have not neglected the field of education-
 When the Russian agents came to power in Afghanistan — and especially after the Russian invasion — education in that country experienced a severe blow. The governmental schools in the cities were turned into propaganda centers for communism and friendship with Russia, When the courageous students (especially the girls) objected to this and demonstrated against the Russian invasion, they were mercilessly gunned down by tanks and helicopters. The criminals did not hesitate even to poison the water storages of their schools. Moreover, many students were expelled from schools or put in prisons, The military conscription laws were designed in such a way that the students were forced to either join the puppet party (PDPA) or to run away. Thousands of children were taken to Russia for indoctrination
 In the country-side, the governmental schools were simply closed down. Their buildings were turned into military barracks.
 The Madrasa system (non-governmental religious schools) which had provided education to Afghan children for centuries — long, long before governmental schools came into existence — also suffered heavily. Many mosques, where classes were held, were bombed and destroyed. The Maulawis (religious scholars) who used to teach in the Madrasas joined the ranks of Mujahideen and became preoccupied with military activities. Because of Russian and their puppet government's barbarism, millions of children migrated to Pakistan'and Iran where they lived in camps in which the basic necessities of life were hardly available. Those who remained inside the country lived in constant insecurity without any classrooms and teachers.
AFGHAN HEUS UOL.III, HO.10,        15/5/1987,PAGE 2
 From the very beginning the Mujahideen were concerned with the sorry state of education inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. It took them a while, however, until they were able to take practical measures. J.I.A. was the first Mujahideen organization to focus on the issue of education both in the refugee camps and in the liberated areas. In its headquarters in Peshawar it established a department of education within its cultural committee in 1979. The first Madrasa (named "Abu Hanifa" after the great Muslim jurist) was established in the fall of 1980 and the first high school (called "Mujahid") was established in 1981. Now the education department has grown into a separate committee with several departments of its own. In Pakistan, it has 207 Madrasas for elementary education in which more than 27,000 students study The number of secondary level Madrasas and schools come to 20 with over 8,000 students attending. Moreover, it has 16 Madrasas for memorization of the Holy Quran with about 800 students.
 Inside Afghanistan, the first schools in the liberated areas were established in Panjshir in 1980. They were followed by schools in other parts of the country. In 1986 the educational committee of J.I.A. launched a massive plan to co-ordinate and expand the educational institutions in the liberated areas
 It is important to note that both boys and girls attend the schools in the liberated areas and in the refugee camps. They receive education both in "religious" sciences and in "modern" sciences.
 Mujahideen are trying their best to promote education and to develop educational institutions The results of their efforts, however, are far from sufficient to meet the future needs of the Afghan nation, Schools inside the country and in the refugee camps face severe shortages of educational materials and trained teachers. These problems have caused the schools to remain mostly at the elementary level, especially in the liberated areas, Although a number of humanitarian organizations are working in the field of education, much more assistance is needed to overcome the above-mentioned problems and to raise the level of education to secondary school and high school.
 There is also urgent need for higher education for Afghan youth The Afghans who have gone as refugees to Western countries rarely find the chance to attend institutions of higher education in those countries A number of Afghan students study in Pakistan universities. There number, however, is small; and there are numerous problems for the refugees to enroll in a Pakistani university, So far there is only one educational institution at the university level run by the Mujahideen organizations. The number of its students does not exceed a few hundred Thus, a concerted effort by all those who are interested in an independent and prosperous Afghanistan is needed to overcome this problem.
 In spite of all the difficulties, however, we hope that soon will come the day when the Afghan people demonstrate the potentials of Islam in building a great civilization in the present age — as they are demonstrating its potentials in fighting an aggressive superpower today.
                                           A DRUG CASH DESTROYED
 On April 23, 1987 Mujahideen destroyed a heroin cash with ground-to-ground rockets in Rabat, inside Afghanistan at the corner where the Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan borders meet. All the heroin, which weighed more than 100 Kilograms were set on fire. The smugglers,however, managed to escape towards the Soviet occupied areas The incident shows that the smugglers had some kind of arrangements with the communists in the arua. Afghan News had reported earlier that the puppet militias along the borders of Iran and Pakistan are involved in drug trafficking.
AFGHAN NEUS OOL.III, HO. 10,       15/5/1907,PAGE 3
                                           1
              FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER MET MUJAHIDEEN DELEGATION
The Alliance delegation which was led by Younus Khalis, the current spokesman of the of the Islamic Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan met France foreign Minister, Mr. jean Bernard Raimond on May 7th. The meeting lasted for one hour. The delegation discussed the military and political situation in Afghanistan with the Foreign Minister. The meeting between the two sides took place before the French Prime Minister's trip to Moscow which is scheduled for mid May Afghan Resistance expects that the Prime Minister will raise the question of Afghanistan with the Soviet leaders and encourage them to end their intervention in Afghanistan.
France supports the struggle of the people of Afghanistan to liberate their country and to decide their future. The French Government has given humanitarian assistance Uf the Refugees in Pakistan and the displaced people inside the country. Public support in France for the cause of Afghanistan is relatively strong and there are several support and relief organizations which work to support the Afghan cause and alleviate the suffering of the people of that country.
                        NEWS
                                      FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS BAGHLAN PROVINCE
 17/4/1987. The enemy posts in Naqsha, 3 Kilometers from Baghlan city were attacked by the Mujahideen. As a result of the attack 40 enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded. Mujahideen also destroyed three bulldozers and 8 tanks and captured two wireless sets and some ammunition Two Mujahideen were martyred in the operation.
 The mentioned posts were established after a big offensive was launched by the enemy one month ago The enemy failed to drive Mujahideen out of the area but was able to inflict material losses on the local people Some of the civilians have become refugees in other parts of Baghlan province.
 U worth mentioning that in this area Mujahideen from Jami'at cooperate with Mujahieen from Hezb in the war against their common enemy, that is. the Soviets and their puppets.
                                                 *******
RFJHfflH HEMS UOL, 14II, HO. 10, 15/S/1W*?,lFRflE 4
                                        SAMANGAN PROVINCE
20/4/1987. According to a report from Samangan province,Mujahideen from Jami'at ambushed an enemy jeep on Pul-i-Khumry-Mazar highway and and killed its occupants which were estimated at ten men The report adds that Mujahideen also attacked several enemy outposts around the city of Khulm and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Communists, in retaliation, heavily bombed the surrounding villages and forced about one thousand people from the area to flee to safer areas
4/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the enemy posts in Ziraki area in Dara-i-Souf district. They killed one enemy soldier and wounded two others. Mujahideen captured ten enemy soldiers and seized 16 guns of different types The report, however, does not give any figures for the casualties of the Mujahideen
                                       NANGARHAR PROVINCE
13/4/1987. Mujahideen from Jami’at attacked Ghani Khail regiment And other posts around district headquarters in Ghani Kahil and Aachin districts. The enemy suffered causualties the number of which was not immediately known Mujahideen in these areas usually make use of heavy weapons like, 107 mm. rockets against the enemy positions.
14/4/1987. Mujahideen in Muhmand Dara attacked militia posts in Hazar Naw village as a result of which two militias were killed and two others wounded. Mujahideen suffered no casualties. -
                                           BALKH PROVINCE
17/4/1987. Soviet-DRA forces launched an attack against the Mujahideen in Sholgar district. Fighting continued for three days as a result of which 17 Mujahideen were martyred and about one hundred civilians were injured The Mujahideen claim that they shot down three enemy jets during the fighting but do not mention which type of weapon was used against the planes. Mujahideen destroyed six enemy AFVs and killed or wounded an unkown number of the enemy sodiers. The Mujahideen s hospital in Sholgar was destroyed by the communist forces. The invading forces retreated after three days of fighting
Sholgar district is controlled mainly by Mujahideen from Jami'at
                                     FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
                                          THE END OF AN OFFENSIVE
The Soviets' third offensive against the Panjshir valley which had continued for 21 days came to an end. The enemy left the valley on 27 December 1980. The whole valley and all the mountains surrounding it were covered with snow. People who had just returned from the mountains had mixed feeling of joy and sorrow.
They were happy because an offensive had ended and the enemy had totally evacuated the valley. They were happy because the enemy had suffered heavy casualties in men and material.
What the Soviets had done to their mosques, houses and cattle was saddening The most painful thing was the loss of relatives and friends, some of whom were very old and not able to move to the safe places at the start of the attack. They were either killed or burned and left un-buried in their villages. Houses were burned, mosques and Holy books disgraced, cattle killed and property looted. The Mujahideen had lost five important men in one combat which was a relatively high figure for such a war. One of the martyred was a 17 year old Mujahid who was killed two meters away from the positions of the enemy. Another was an ex-teacher and a mortar gunner of the
6FQHHH HEUS UOti.HH., HO, 10^ IWWBftPBOE 5
 Mujahideen whose friendly manners had made him dear to all. He was a sharp shooter in mortars. His first round hit the target. The death of these people gaven a sad look to the town.
 The Soviets had burned all sorts of books, miied different types of food together to make them useless, killed the cattle for fun and looted the property of the people. There were about three hundred shops in the town. Most of the valuable goods of the shops were loaded in tanks and trucks and taken away.
 Watching all the above, I recalled the university days when communist students and teachers painted a human face for the communist system and presented the Soviet citizens as morally superb. What we had seen from the Soviets, however was totally different. They did not respect the worship places of the people and even degraded their holy books. They killed every one including old men and women and in some cases burned them alive. They took away the valuable things and burnt what they were not able to take They killed all the cattle in the town. A journalist present at the time said, “ The students of Marxism-Leninism should come here to learn the true way of communism".
 Soviet soldiers can be hold responsible for what they do but the real criminals are their political leaders who authorize invading other countries The big criminal was Breznev who sent Soviet troops to Afghanistan. The biggest criminal, however, is Gorbachev who has continued the unjust war in Afghanistan for more than two years but still tries to pose as a peace-lover
                       KAHLIS THE CURRENT SPOKESMAN OF THE ALLIANCE
                                                    v
 The Council of the Alliance met on May 5 and chose the Current Spokesman of the Alliance. The new Spokesman will be Mr Younus Khalis, the leader of Hezb-e-lslami (Khalis group). The Council also extended the term of the Spokesman from three months to six months
 The Council also discussed the problem of forming a General Council for the Alliance and other important political issues We wish every success to the current Spokesman of the Alliance and want to mention that consolidation of the Alliance is of the utmost importance to the Resistance The respectable leaders of.the Resistance should try to show their unity in action and intention.
 The Alliance of the Mujahideen which represents the absolute majority of the people of Afghanistan must play an important role in the political field. This is only possible if the Alliance is united and prepares a sound and practical political program.
                             ROAD TRANSPORTATION IN AFGHANISTAN
 Roads are the most common and economic means of transportation in Afghanistan. There are no rail roads in the country Waterways do not exist either. Transportation by air is limited and very expensive Roads remain the only reliable means of transportation
 Afghanistan, being an under-developed country, has very few paved roads It is a mountainous country and the conditions of existing roads are very bad. There are three main roads which are controlled and used by the Soviets and their puppets.
    1- Salang highway, connecting Kabul to the Soviet border
    2- Kabul-Jalalabad road, connecting the capital to Pakistan,
    3- Kabul-Qandahar and Qandahar-Herat highway, connecting Kabul to the West and South-Western parts of Afghanistan.
 There are two other sections which are of secondary importance.
    1- Kunduz-Faizabad, connecting Kunduz to Takhar and Badakhshan provinces.
RFDHRH KEUS VOL,III, MO. 10,       15/5/196?,PROE  6
    2-KabuLGardiz, connecting Kabul to Paktia.
 The most important of all the above lines — and the busiest of them — is the Salang highway which connects the capital to the Soviet border.
 Traffic on the highways has been affected greatly by the war. The conditions of the roads are bad and they are useable only by day time. The roads were originally designed to handle commercial and private traffic. Now the military convoys form the main body of the traffic which use the roads Because of the war situation the existing roads have not been repaired since the beginning of the war. Movement of chained vehicle (Tanks) has created many potholes on the roads This has reduced the speed of the traffic to a large extent Maximum speed on Salang highway, for example is 30 Km/h
 The roads are unsecure. Since priority is given to the military vehicles, a little carelessness by the local road users could end in a tragic situation of being run-over by a Soviet tank or shot by an angry Soviet soldier.
 Moreover, due to the nature of the traffic, Mujahideen block the roads by setting ambushes and laying mines.
 In order to provide security for the roads the Soviets have created a series of permanent and temporary posts along the roads. In mountainous areas and in the regions with cover, these posts are situated close together. The posts are manned either by Soviets and DRA soldiers or the puppets' local militias.To maximize the security of the roads, the Soviets have cleared one-to-two Kilometers of the two sides of the roads of houses, treerand other obstacles which could be used as a coyer for an attack against the road The villages along the roads have been the victim of repeated Soviet and puppet reprisal actions after each Mujahideen ambush. Most of these villages are deserted now because of the continous attacks and acts of violence by the communists
 Despite all the above measures, the roads are useable only during the day and under the cover of gunship helicopters All the transportation convoys are escorted by APCs and even on some truck they have fixed machineguns. The posts are connected together by wireless sets and they are in consent contact with the nearest Soviet army and airbase
 The largestlransportation company which brings goods from the Soviet border to the capital is called AFSOTER. a joint Soviel-BRA firm. Puppets also force private truck owners to transport government soods in return for obtaining road permits. The communists are interested in uri&g private trucks mo're often to avoid Mujahideen attacks or confiscation of goods.
 The ovietshave extended two pipelines from the border to Bagram airbase near Kabul to meet their demands for fuel These pipelines run paralleL to the Salang highway They are good targets far the Mujahideen attacks and a large amount of fuel is being wasted every day Repairing the pipeline and extinguishing the fire caused by the Mu jahideen attacks have become a constant job for the Red army The rivers and streams which flow in these areas have a tiny film of oil on them which has flown from the pipelines to the rivers.
 In the past the telephone poles were extended along the roads Now there are no such poles because telephone conlaci between different cities has stopped since the beginning of the war The Soviets can boast that they have replaced the old-fashioned telephone system with a wireless communication system which connects Kabul to all major Soviet and DRA centers. Of course the system is used exclusively for military purposes
 There are many check-posts on the main roads some set up by the Soviet and DRA and some by the Mujahideen The Mujahideen confiscate a large amount of goods belonging to the regime and the Soviets and issue receipts which are signed by the area commanders and sealed by the party stamp controlling the area. These receipts are acceptable to the communists, that is, after seeing them they do not question the drivers any more. Confiscation of enemy goods is an important source of income for the
RFBHFM HEUS VOL.111, HO,10,           15/5/l9e?,PflOE 7
Mujahideen Sometimes Mujahideen let the roads remain open in exchange for having permission to confiscate the enemy goods. Both sides have their ovn compelling reasons for such an unspoken agreement.
Sometimes due to the carelessness of the Mujahideen the property of private merchants are confiscated. In these cases. Mujahideen have offered compensation with apologies. The situation becomes complicated when the puppets try to smuggle their goods in disguise of the private sector and some money-loving merchants keep silent about it.
Roads which are controlled by the Mujahideen are usually direct-roads connecting different parts of the country side Some of the trucks used on the roads in the liberated areas are captured from the enemy during the operations and some others belong to the individuals Captured trucks operate only in the liberated towns while private trucks can travel to the communist controlled cities as well. It should be« mentioned that in some flat areas of the country it is possible to travel hundreds of miles by road without facing the enemy presence. Traffic on the liberated areas is a special target of Soviet gunships As a result of such attacks hundreds of innocent people have lost their lives so far. To avoid air strikes, the people in the liberated areas travel by road during the night
The above explanation shows how heavily the Soviets and the puppet regime rely on road transportation. They not only have to supply their army units, but bring essential commodities to the cities under their control. Transportation is a weak point for the enemy which can be exploited by the resistance An ordinary road block for one or two days creates tremendous economic, military and political problems for the Soviets and their puppets On the other hand. Mujahideen dependence on road transportation is minimum and has been replaced to a large extent by animal transportation
SHAME OR PRIDE
Gorbachev who was talking to the Communist Youth Congress in Moscow in the middle of April said that he was proud of the courage of the Soviets Soldiers who bad gained experience in Afghanistan
What the Soviets do in Afghanistan is not something to be proud of. They are fighting a classic colonial war Like any other aggressor, they are committing atrocities against the local population and violating all the moral and humanitarian codes.
 r
We do not know how the Soviet leaders could be proud of what their soldiers do in Afghanistan. As a result of seven years of Red army atrocities, half a million Afghan people have died, 5 million have became refugees, T)V, of all the villages and towns have been destroyed and the whole Afghan Nation is facing genocide.
The damage which the Soviet army has inflicted on the cultural side of Afghan life is also enormous The Sovietization program of the Soviet invaders has posed a real threat to the cultural identity of this Islamic and non-aligned nation
The above deeds deserve shame not pride From a purely military point view, what the Soviets have achieved in Afghanistan is not significant at all. The strongest army of the world — with a history of occupation of other countries in a matter of hours and the suppression of national movements in the invaded countries — has failed to achieve its military aims in a poor country like Afghanistan in seven full years Hundreds of Jets -and Helicopters, thousands of APCs. tanks and other AFVs; with more than 150,000 * soldiers were deployed against ill-armed Afghans, What are the achievements? The Soviets were dreaming of a quick victory which never materialized It is indeed a big defeat for the proud army of a super-power and should be very demoralizing for their personnel in Afghanistan .
This war has inflicted irreparable damage to the prestige of communist ideology. The sophisticated planes of Communists are being used to destroy the mud-houses of Afghan
AFGHAN NEUS UOL.III, HO.10,       15/5/1987,PAGE8
 farmers, to kill their cattle and to degrade their worship places This is a phenomenon which the theory of communism can not explain
 The cover story fabricated by the Soviet leaders that their soldier have gone to Afghanistan to defend a friendly country against imperialist aggression has been destroyed and their soldiers do not believe it any more, This is why they are demoralized They are are also demoralized because they are not treated as heroes by the Soviet people when they return home from Afghanistan.
 Gorbachev's comments about the "courage'' of the Soviet soldiers and his "pride" about the dirty work they do, are actually meant to alleviate the frustration of those soldiers who are fighting an unjust war for no good reason
 Gorbachev, who is now the Chief Commander of the Soviet armed forces, should be ashamed because of the continuation of a colonial war. There is no room for him to b# proud,
 Death and shame to all aggressors who talk about peace but continue war and cause the suffering of millions of innocent people!
                                 DEATH OF A PROMINENT AFGHAN POET
 Khalilullah Khalili, the famous contemporary Persian poet died at age of 85 in Islamabad on May 4th Khalili who had worked as Minister. MP and Ambassador resigned from his duty when the communists took power in 1978 and has remained in exile since then.
 Khalili spent most of his life-in-exiie writing poetry which reflected the tragic situation in Afghanistan. Most of his work has been published and some of it has been translated into other languages.
 Khalili preferred to spend the last days of his life in Pakistan — close to the Mujahideen and refugees, In the last ten years of his life he came into contact with the ;i i common men from all walks of life coming from different parts of the country, The people were affected by his poetry and he was affected by the stories of the heroic resistance of the people of his country and their great sufferings.
 He lived a simple life. He was always thinking about the freedom of Afghanistan and praising the courage of the Mujahideen with his beautiful poetry. He did a great service for his country at a time when it was needed the most.
 Khalili was famous not only in Afghanistan, but also in Iran, Pakistan and the region as a whole His death was a loss to the people of Afghanistan May Allah grant him peace.
                                        A PIECE OF CANDY FOR A CHILD
 Tass reported that a Syrian cosmonaut will join two Soviets in a space mission. At first look it seems good news: an Arab and Islamic country has reached that level of technological development to be able to send astronauts into space
 If this mission were a real development, a sign of genuine progress we would have been more than happy. The sad fact is that it is a political decision of a ceremonial nature
 Syria as the head of the so-called radical Arab states, has played an important role in defending the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan as well as the spread of Soviet
 influence in the Arab world.
                    Sending a Syrian cosmonaut ona space mission is like giving a piece of candy to a child
RFQHRN HEWS DDL.Ill, HO.10,         15/5/190?, PRCJE 9
 who has done something good It is like giving an honorary degree of law to a graduate of high school who has difficulties in reading and writing (India gave such a degree to the late president Daud)
 Both the Soviet and the Syrian regimes will gain some benefits from such a ceremonial space mission. The Asad regime which has problems at home and has been isolated abroad, needs something to deceive the Syrian people
 Asad will certainly use the event for domestic consumption In the third world countries these types of ceremonial events are usually exploited to add to the shattered prestige of the dictators in power.
 The Soviets want to encourage Syria's anti-Islamic policies at home and pro-Soviet policies in the international arena
                                           APRIL COUP CONDEMNED
 On the occasion of the ninth anniversary of the communist take over in Afghanistan (April 27.1978 pro-Russian coup detat), the cultural committee of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan held a huge meeting in Eidgah Mosque, Peshawar. Several thousands Mujahideen and Muhajireen(Re'fugees) took part in the meeting which lasted from 8 30 Am, to 2 00 Pm.
 In the meetings number of speakers talked about Russian plots in Afghanistan in the past and their recent plot, that is, the rumor of Zahir Shah's coming back to power.
 The speakers condemned the communist coup and the Russian invasion as well as Zahir Shah and his corrupt and oppressive regime whom they blamed for the success of Russian plots in Afghanistan A number of revolutionary poems were recited and revolutionary songs were sung as well.
 At the end of meeting. Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani , the leader of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, gave a speech, the main points of which are the following:
    1- The Russians brought up the issue of Zahir Shah s coming back to power after the Mujahideen organizations manifested their unity and decisiveness by issuing the January 17, 1987 proclamation. Russians' aim was. to bring about disunity and confusion in the ranks of the Mujahideen.
    2- Today in Afghanistan there are only two groups:
        a-Those who fight in the battle-fields of Jehad and their supporters, b-Russian agents who oppose the first group directly or indirectly. Thus, there is no third person" or "third party" to be able to form a " neutral" government
        in Afghanistan.
    3- The only way for the solution of the Afghanistan problem is the establishment of
    an Islamic government by the Mujahideen
    4- Russian propaganda to the effect that they want to leave Afghanistan is also nonsense. Vhiie engaged in the propaganda, the Russians are bringing new troops and are constructing a bigger airport near Jalalabad.
    5- jami at Islami Afghanistan strongly supports the proclamation by the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen dated January 17, 1987 and wants the implementation of its provisions
RFOHRN NEHS UOL.III, HO.10,        15/5/1907,PHOE 10
6- Jami'at Islami Afghanistan appreciates the moral and political support of the governments and peoples of Pakistan and the Islamic republic of Iran as veil as other Muslim and peace loving countries vho support our cause and provide humanitarian assistance to Afghan refugees. But it has announced time and again that no other country can decide for the Afghan people and that Jami'at will not accept a decision which is not in accordance with the Mujahideens' views or in which they do not directly lake part in its decision-making process
   Whosoever of gou sees an evil action, let him change it mith his hand; and if he is not able to do so, then mith his tongue; and if he is not able to do so, then mith his heart- and that is the meakest of faith.
                                                       Prophet Mohammad (p.b.u.h.)
                                            PLOT TO KILL NAJIB I
The puppet regime has claimed that Pakistan and America were planning to kill Najib, but the attempt was foiled by the security forces of the regime.
Anything which happens against the regime in Afghanistan is attributed to the involvement of the foreign forces. The popular uprising of the people of Afghanistan against the Soviet invasion and their seven years of struggle against the occupation of their homeland is branded by the Soviets and their puppets as foreign intervention. This accusation is also part of the puppet regimes propaganda to deceive public opinion about what is really happening in Afghanistan.
Najib. the head of the puppet regime, is a Soviet agent, a criminal who served as the head of KhAD for several years and has killed and tortured thousands of innocent people of Afghanistan He deserves to be killed to save the people of Afghanistan from his evil designs He deserves such a punishment by any standard But as for as the Mutahideen are concerned, his presence or absence does not bring great changes in the situation inside Afghanistan because the real masters are the Soviets and the role of the puppets is no more than translating the Soviet policies. Puppet leaders are figure heads and the true power is in the band of the Soviets ,
It is believed that the internal problems inside the puppets party could be the main cause of an attempt on Najib s life. Factional disputes inside the party, between Khaiq and farcham factions, have got the form of a chronic disease which the Soviet are unable to heal. Different parts of the government organization are divided between the two factions. After the removal of Babrak from power, a new faction which sympathizes with Babrak and opposes Najib has been created too There is a strong possibility that these factional disputes are a reason for the plot and the puppets as usual want to cover it up by blaming foreigners.
******
  ****