 [ tM the mti or AtMionn ajuumb |
AFGH ANmews
             A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                     VOL. Ill, NO. 13, 1/7/1987.
                                          HOW CLOSE A SETTLEMENT IS
                     The Afghan nation vants pence. Var has caused great suffering to millions of Afghans.
 In this colonial var, unleashed by the Soviet ambitious leaders, our culture is facing « destruction, our religion is being harassed and the vhole Afghan nation is facing ■ genocide. More than half a million dead, 3 million external refugees, more than tvo million internal refugees and the destruction of 75% of all the villages, and tovns are clear indications of the Soviets brutality in the var. To end this tragedy Afghans desire ~ for peace, a peace vhich gives them their country and freedom to live the vay they IHce.
 The year 1987 started vith a lot of optimism. Soviets had announced the end of the vithdrecval of 8000 of their troops. Gorbachev had called Afghanistan a bleeding vound. A 'ceasefire* and "National Reconciliation" program ves announced in occupied Afghanistan. Later in Geneva the time table for the vithdravol of Soviet troops from Afghanistan vas reduced to 11 months by the puppets. Outside vorld had some reasons to be optimistic about a political settlement in Afghanistan.
 Afghan resistance vas vatching the situation closely. To Afghans there vas not any real change. Var vas escalating, people being Killed and refugees vara fleeing from the country as before. If there vere any change that vas the sophistication of the var in the political front.
 Based on understanding of the situation, the resistance had to do tvo things:
   1- To closely vetch the Soviets moves and if there vere any genuine step tovards a real settlement that should be reciprocated. Because the real aim vas liberation of Afghanistan.
   2- To guard the revolution against evil designs of the enemy. The resistance looked to the token vithdraval, ceasefire and national reconciliation as evil design to divide Afghans and deceive public opinion. This explains vhy the resistance rejected all the above ceremonial steps.
 By standing firm and united, the resistance foiled the enemys* evil designs. But the campaign has just started, there vill be more battles to vin.
 The veak point of the resistance is its political status. A resistance vith 7 years of experience in var. absolute popular support and control of the majority of Afghanistan’s land is in an undesirable political position. It is not recognized and its political establishments has the status of a refugee organisation. It does not have any part in the talks being held about Afghanistan. This is vhy the resistance can not initiate a major political campaign. In the absence of acomplete political plan from the resistance the Soviets vill be in a good political position.
 Soviets have intensified their activities inside NAM, and OIC, and have von some victories. Incursion of the Soviets in the Middle Fast vill have a negative effect on the position of the countries of the area on the Afghan issue. Knoving all this the Soviets are not seeking a solution, vhat they vant to consolidate the position of their puppets in the international arena, isolate Mujahideen and finally impose a solution in vhich their long term interests are protected. In other vords they are vorking tovards the end of conflict on their ovn terms. This is vhy ve do not believe the general
O F
flFBHRH HEMS VOL. Ill, MO. 13, 1/7/1907 PMC 2
impression that the var in Afghanistan is close to an end.
All this shores that the Mujahideen have a lot to think about. They hove to continue the var inside and challenge Soviets political designs vhich are aimed at veakening of the resistance. Road to peace is straight forvard. A country vhich vas independent vas invaded. To solve the problem the invaders must leave and let the people of the country decide their ovn destiny.
As long as the Soviets have not accepted minimal conditions put by the Mujahideen. Afghans do not have any other choice than to continue the var at any cost, k is an unpleasant choice but more unpleasant vould be the consequences of an appeasement policy tovards a ruthless pover like the Soviet Union.
                           NEWS
                          FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS

                                      NANGARHAR PROVINCE
During the Holy month of Ramadhan the enemy established some nev posts in Garo area of Goshta district.
On 4/6/87. Mujahideen attacked the mentioned posts vith BH-12 rockets. The enemy suffered heavy losses in men and material, but no details vere available.
On 9/6/1987. Mujahideen from all the parties launched attack against the enemy and destroyed several posts. Mujahideen captured one AA Gun. a 82mm. mortar, an artillery piece of unknovn type and several light veapons. 3 Mujahideen vere Martyred and 9 others vounded. The casualties of the enemy are not mentioned in the report.
                                        HELMAND PROVINCE
23/6/87. Mujahideen from jamiat under the command of Aakhund Zada shot dovn a enemy helicopter in Ainak district killing all the occupants vho vere Soviets.
                                        WARDAK PROVINCE
17/6/87. Mujahideen from Jami at under the command of Hamaisha Gul ambushed an enemy convoy in Shineeza valley as a result of vhich 3 tanks, one A PC and 11 trucks vere destroyed. Tvo DRA officers and tvo soldiers vere captured by the Mujahideen. The number of the enemy casualties vas not immediately knovn. Mujahideen had no casualties.
                                                A**
- flFCMOH fEUS VOL.Ill, MO.13, 1/7/ 1007 PflCE 3
                                       TAKHAR PROVINCE
7/6/1987. Mujahideen attacked Baghak post in Taliqan area. 3 enemy soldiers vere killed, tvo rounded and the rest captured along vith 10 guns.
                                            KABUL PROVINCE
According to a report from soroobi district, the Russian and puppet troops attacked Jami'at Islami Mujahideen positions in Jegdalek last veek of May. After some resistance the Mujahideen vithdrev to their second line of defense taking along vith them the important and necessary items. In the fight three tanks vere destroyed and 10 enemy soldiers 'sere killed.                                                «
Mujahideen did not suffer any casualties in the fight, but one Hujahid, Mohammad Amin, vas Martyred later by a mine planted by the invading troops.
                                         REPORT FROM BADGHIS
According to a report from Murghab district of Badghis province. Mujahideen from Jami'at in that district crossed the border recently launching an attack on a Russian military post. More than 40 Russian soldiers vere killed and a large number vere ■rounded. Folloving the attack, more than 50 Russian Jets bombarded the Murghab district for 25 days. About 300 people—including many romen and children—vere Martyred and a lot of houses, shops and other buildings vere destroyed. Commander Nasrullah and his family vere among the Martyrs.
                                           L0GAR PROVINCE
According to a report from Logar, Mujahideen from Jamiat Islami in that province under the command of Dr. Fazlullah "Mujaddidi" launched an attack on Russian and puppet troop's headquarter and posts in Puli-i-Alam, Kutubkhail. Mir AbdaL Kulangar and Baraki Barak in the last roek of May. Mujahideen of Baraki-Barak and Kulangar under the command of Mula Muhayddin also took part in the operations. As a result of the operation 45 enemy troops vere killed, a large number of them rounded. Three Mujahideen rore Martyred and six vere rounded.
According to another report from Logar, 30 Mujahideen belonging to Hexb Islami vho vere going to Ghorband in Par van province vere ambushed by Russian commandos in Deenarkhail of Logar Mujahideen from Jamiat Islami came to the help of their brothers and vere able to break the enemy's siege by firing mortar DScHK and 107mm rocket. The operation lasted four hours.
                                           HERAT PROVINCE
According to a report from Herat, three weeks ago commander Alauddeen vith cooperation of a number of other commanders from Pash tun Zarghun, Kushk, Karukh and Injeel districts in Herat province and another commander from Badghis province designed a plan to launch a coordinated attack on militia forces in Kushk district The fight is still going on. So far Mujahideen have destroyed the militia position in ten villages including Zard Qala vhich is a strategic point. A large number of the enemy troops vere killed (the exact number is not given). Mujahideen captured more than one hundred pieces of light and heavy veapons. One Mujahid has been rounded so far.
14/6/87. Mujahideen under the command of Ismail Khan attacked enemy posts about 3 Km Vest of Herat city and destroyed all of the posts. The reports does not give any details about the operation or the casualties of the tvo sides.
                                                    * * *
flFBKOH h£US VOL .III, HO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PAGE 4
 1/6/87. Mujahideen clashed vith the enemy forces in Eushk district 60 Km North of Herat. Enemy forces suffered heavy casualties. Mujahideen captured about 200 guns. The report does not give any details about casualties of the tvo sides.
 16/6/87. Mujahideen launched a surprised attack against the enemy forces in Khifan area in Sheendand district. 24 Armed soldiers "were captured vith one tank and one truck Several enemy soldiers vere either killed or vounded. One Mujahid vas Martyred and tvo others vounded.
                                               REPORT FROM SALANG
 31 /5/87. Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts and a convoy in Salang, as a result of vhich 6 Tanks and APCs and 10 oil-tankers vere destroyed, 40 soldiers (mainly Soviets) « vere killed and 19 others vounded
 4/6/87. An enemy convoy vas ambushed as result of vhich more than 30 oil-tankers and tvo AKs vere destroyed and a large number of soldiers killed or vounded.
 5/6/87. Mujahideen attacked the enemy in Bagh Maiden area in Salang as a result of vhich 20 oil-tankers and Truck carrying ammunition vere set on fire and 30 soldiers either killed or vounded.
 6/6/87. Soviet launched an attack against Mujahideen's position. Fighting continued for three days.During these days Salang highvay remained closed for traffic. 9 Tanks and tens of trucks belong to the Soviet and DRA armies and AFS0TER company vere set on fire. An approximate number of 8 men (Soviet and puppets ) either vere killed or vounded during the operation. 8 civilians and 3 Mujahideen vere Martyred and 2 other Mujahideen vounded. The Soviets failed to achieve their aims and vere forced to terminate their operation.
 Heavy bombardments of the area by the enemy air force continues. It should be added that Mujahideen in these areas do not have effective veapons against the enemy aircraft. The enemy's aerial superiority has caused many problems for both the Mujahideen and the civilian population.
                                        OFFENSIVE IN QANDAHAR
Afghan Nevs received a letter from Mullah Naqibullah, Jami'ect Islami commander in Qandahar in vhich he gives the details of the enemy offensive vhich vas launched on May 22nd and continued up to June 12th. Here are some important points of the letter:
ENEMY LOSSES
More than 1000 enemy soldiers (DRA) joined the Mujahideen An approximate number of 500 Soviet and DRA soldiers vere either killed or vounded. Among those vho vere killed vere several DRA high ranking officers. Tvo Ml-24 Helicopters vere shot dovn and 34 tanks and APC destroyed.
MUJAHIDEEN LOSSES
100 civilians vere either killed or maimed. 60 Mujahideen vere Martyred. 10 Truck, belonging to the Mujahideen vere destroyed A BM1 and an 82 mm RR gun vere destroyed by the enemy fire. Tvo Truck loads of Ammunition vere set on fire. Most of the vineyards and houses of the area vere destroyed.
The report says the fighting vas very severe and the tvo sides fought each other at close range. It vas learned that besides the Soviet troops, DRA units vere brought to the battlefield from all over Afghanistan. Some of the captured soldiers told the Mujahideen that they vere prisoners up to January 15 of the current year. Their release vas a step in the implementation of the so-called "National Reconciliation", but
fiPDHRHhCH8V0L.nl, MO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PfiCC 5
 instead of letting them join their families they were pressganged into the puppet army and then taken to the battlefields The age of some of the captured soldiers did not exceed 15 years.
 The attack against the Mujahideen in Arghendab was planed to be a long one. The attacks vere launched one after the other but Mujahideen fought the enemy very bravely. Farmers in the area suffered from the attack the most. They lost their crop and fruit trees.
 The lack of trained surgeon was a problem. A large number of wounded Mujahideen whose lives could be saved by minor surgery died due to lack of proper medicine and absence of doctors in the area.
                              OFFENSIVE AGAINST JAJI CAME TO AN END
                                                                     I
 The enemy launched a big offensive against Jaji on May 20 which lasted for twenty four days. The purpose of the enemy ires to block the transportation lines of the' Mujahideen in Char Chatal and secure a strategic peak celled Khosh Beram. The enemy ground forces proceeded to the area from Gardeaz, the provincial capital of Paktia province and Ghazni. Another force was launched their attack from Hengarhar province. The force coming from Hesarak area wanted to capture the high ground first and then the tnemy forces were supposed to capture Khar Chatal and make a permanent post there. Fortunately the enemy forces coming from Nangarhar faced the resistance of the Mujahideen and could not reach the area which it was supposed to capture. The enemy successive attacks against these two points was foiled by the Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen artillery units did a good job in repulsing the enemy attacks. Mujahideen AA guns forced the enemy jets to fly high and make their bombs less effective.
 The enemy lost an estimated number 550 men ( most of them ware Soviet). 3 helicopters (two of the shot down by RPG-7), 10 jets and about 150 different types of vehicles including tanks. APCs. oil-tankers and trucks and 5 ammunition dumps.
 Mujahideen lost 75 men. Unity among the parties present there ( jamiat, Ittihad and Hezb Islami) was very good. Morel of the Mujahideen was high and that of the enemy quite low. Scores of DRA soldiers lost their lives trying to cross minefields around them to join the resistance. Mujahideen from all over Afghanistan were participating along with the local people in the war against the enemy.
 Three party leaders. Prof. Sayyaf. Prof B.Rabbani and Eng. Bikmatyar visited the area. Prof. Sayyaf spent most of the 24 days of the offensive in the area.
 The medical situation was not very good. Jamiat and Hezb medical teams were not active while the Ittihad field hospital vas doing most of the work.
 Fighting continued during Eid days. Vomen in the refugee camps close to the border cooked the food and sent it to the Mujahideen in the fronts. There were more volunteers to fight than was necessary for the war Generally speaking the performance of the Mujahideen in jaji was excellent and the enemy retreated after losing too many men without achieving any of its military aims.
                                                A GREAT LOSS
 Mullah Malang, Mujahideen commander in (jandahar belonging to Khalis group, was martyred on June 14. This brave commander was active in Qandahar city and caused great problems for the Soviet. His death was a great loss for all the Mujahideen. May Almighty Allah forgive him and grant his Soul with eternal peace.
                                                    •* * * -* -*
RFCHfiN h€MS VCL. Ill, HO. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PflCE 6
                            A NEW PHASE OF THE SOVIETIZATION PROGRAM
Soviets invaded Afghanistan and tried to change the vay of life of its people. This program vhich is knov as "Sovietization' is a long term process and covers all aspects of Afghans life.
The main theme at the beginning vas influencing the educational system by introducing nev curriculum and sending a large number of students (especially very
young children) to the Soviet Union.
A nev phase of Sovietization started after Babrak vas replaced by Najib This nev phase has a geographical nature.
                                                                                                                   I
Najib, vhen visiting Badakhshan at the beginning of the current year revealed a pregram according to vhich Northern provinces of Afghanistan vill come in close cooperation (cultural, educational, economic and even religious) vith the neighboring Central Asian States of the Russian Empire. The purpose of such a program seems to ' transform the pattern of Afghans life completely into Soviet style and make the Northern part of Afghanistan totally dependent on Soviets, in the past fev months the regime media gives the nevs of exchange of delegations betveen the province* in the North and Soviet Central Asian Republics.
In practical fields, cross-border military operations takes place against the Mujahideen and in Mazar-i-5harif pover is transmitted from the Soviet pover plants for use in the military bases inside Afghanistan and even for use in some villages under control of the puppets The North of Afghanistan is covered by Soviet TV and Radio
Retaliatory measures against the people in this area is very severe. A small ambush against a Soviet convoy across the River vill bring massive offensives and cause tragic incidents of massacres.
From all the above it seems that the Soviets have special program in the area. One reason could be the ethnic, linguistic and religious connections of the Northern provinces vith the Soviet side of the Oxus River Soviets are putting all their efforts to change the situation in their favor to avoid the unvanted effects of a lost var on the Muslim people in Central Asia.
Despite all the efforts, the Resistance in the North is very strong, veil organized and led by a vise military and political leadership. Morale in the area is high and the people fully support the resistance.
But because of Geographical situation of the area and in the face of enemy’s extensive plans. Mujahideen have to pay close attention to the area and besides military plans have to drav political, economic and educational programs to cope vith the nev developments. To do this co-operation among the Mujahideen forces is of prime importance It is also important to put enough resources at the disposal of the commanders of the area to do their multi-dimentional job better. The situation is critical and needs urgent attention.
                              JAMIAT REPRESENTATIVE VISITED CANADA
Najibullah "Lafrsie", the head of the Political office of Jamiat Islami Afghanistan left Peshaver for Canada to participate in a 3 day Conference organized by International Human Concern.
The conference vas held from the 26th to 28th of June. Najibullah vill be given the chance to talk about different aspects of Afghan Jehad and to try to encourage further Humanitarian and political support for the Afghan cause. Najibullah also vill talk to the people in the Media to drav the public attention tovards the grave situation in Afghanistan International Human Concern is a relief organization run by Muslims living m Canada.
flFBHPN NEU8 VCL. Ill, NO.14, 15/7/ 19G7 PBGE 7
                                                BOOK REVIEW
                                      AFGHANISTAN; THE SOVIET WAS
 jBy FtfvsrrfJP. Girardet. 259 pages. Groom Helm
 Ltd. Provident House.. Burrell Row. Beckenham. Kent BP.? 1 AT
 Gieet Britain.
 Edvard Girardet, a special correspondent for the Christian Science Monitor, has prepared a veil informed appraisal of the tragic var raging in Afghanistan.
 Eollovmg the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979, Girardet decided to return to the region in order to report on the var Ihis book is the result of numerous trips to the region including six major trips into Afghanistan once vith an official visa and five times clandestinely vith Afghan resistance forces
 An examination is made as to vhy the Soviets invaded in 1979, and vhat they seek from Afghanistan. Girardet details Soviet strategy and hov the Afghan resistance has been able to hold its ovn against an overvhelming Russian military and political machine.
 The Soviet pillage of Afghanistan's natural resources is reported, as is the Marxist deliberate policy of migratory genocide through a combination of aerial bombardments, political repression and economic blockades.
 With large areas of Afghanistan ravaged by Soviet aggression, the Afghans have suffered some one million dead and more than five million refugees. Girardet documents the Soviet strategy of driving out the Afghan resistance and population
 through terror.
 An outline is given of the major Afghan resistance groups and the internal divisions inherent in such a struggle for survival and victory. Having intervieved many of the resistance leaders both inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps. Girardet explains the nature of the Afghan Islamic anti-Communist struggle for independence.
 Girardet strongly attacks the neglect of the Afghan struggle shovn by Western governments, vhile praising the heroic vork of youpg Western doctors inside Afghanistan and other relief vorkers involved vith Afghan refugees.
 Edvard Girardet states in his introduction, that:
  As a journalist and fellov human being vho has lived, travelled and shared common experiences vith the Afghan resistance, it vould be dishonest of me to claim that this is a totally impartial appraisal. Victims of vhat I consider to be a brutal and colonialist form of repression by the Soviets, the Afghan people have all my sympathy.
 An excellent report on the var still raging in Afghanistan and a very human look at those brave Afghan varriors vho have von the hearts of men and vomen vorldvide.
                                    ALLIANCE DECISION CRITICIZED
 Eight Mujahideen Parties based in Iran have criticized the decision of the Alliance of the Mujahideen of Afghanistan to hold elections vithout consulting them.
 In a communique the mentioned parties stated that all sections of Afghan society have participated in the struggle against the Soviet invaders so they should be given opportunity to participate in deciding their future It is further said that the announced election is not practical and vill heighten the differences betveen contesting parties and lead to more problems.

fiFBHfiHtCMSWOL.nl, HQ. 13, 1/7/ 1907 PftCE 8
                                                EXCERPTS FROM
                                    ‘AFGHANISTAN’S OTHER WAR’
                                                By Jeri Labor
 Virtually every knovn crime of var is taking place there, and on a scale so vast it defies imagination. Children are among the most victimized. They are bombed in their schools, locked in their homes and burned alive, shot vhile fleeing to caves in the mountains or enroute to refuge in Pakistan They are spied upon and urged to inform against their families and friends. They have lost hands and eyes by picking up “toys’ that have exploded in their faces.                                      (
 IDEOLOGY
 The Soviets are at a disadvantage They seek to impose a communist ideology that has-gone bankrupt in their ovn country and is foreign to Afghan thinking, an ideology that most Afghans consider atheistic, evil, and decadent. Moreover, since only a small part of the country is under Soviet control, they can hope to influence only the children living in Kabul and'a fev other cities But the Soviets have had long experience in subduing ethnic resistance in other countries, most pertinently in their ovn Central Asian republics They believe that they are bringing progress and enlightenment to a poor and backvard nation and they have not scruples about the methods that they use.
 They began, soon after the 1979 takeover, by thoroughly overhauling the Afghan school system to make it conform to the practice of Soviet schools both in structure and in what is taught Soviet advisers, Soviet teachers, and Soviet-published textbooks vere brought in, and socialism and dialectical materialism vere added to a nevly standardized curriculum Russian replaced English as the required foreign language, and Afghanistan's history vas revriiten as a continuing struggle against imperialism, aided by an enduring friendship vith the Soviet Union.
 Teachers vho resisted or had independent vievs vere fired, many vere imprisoned or executed, others fled the country. Students membership in Party organizations became necessary for scholastic success, and party loyalty required students to inform upon their teachers and each other.
 Acknovledging the strong hold of Islam on the Afghan people, the Soviets moved cautiously in religious matters Some Islamic teaching vas alloved to continue in the schools, carefully monitored to prevent any criticism of the government. Still, about half of the eligible students are not enrolled in schools. Some 90 percent of the Afghan population is illiterate, and the Soviets soon learned that it is senseless to distribute propaganda to a population that does not read. A nev approach vas necessary.
 INDOCTRINATION
 In late 1984 the Afghan regime launched a program under vhich thousands of very young children-six to nine years old. or younger are sent to the USSR each year for ten years or more of study. (According to some reports, the Afghan government is committed to sending a minimum of 2,000 children a year ) The purpose of the program is evident to remove children from the influences of family and tradition, to teach them at an impressionable age. to shov them a "better life’ in the USSR, and -ultimately-to offer them the opportunity to lead Afghanistan into a communist future. Some of the youngsters sent to the USSR are the children of Afghan communist party members, sent vith their parents' blessings.
 Others, hovever, are sent from their schools vithout their families' consent, and sometimes vithout even their knowledge. Refugees report from Kabul that hundreds of children have been taken from their homes by agents of the secret police or seized on
npcitnjuEHeucL.Mi, »o.t3, \m 1907 pace 9
 the streets. Parents have been arrested for refusing to let their children go.
 Almost nothing is knovn about vhat happens to these children when they arrive in the Soviet Union. Some Afghans speculate that the term of study will be shortened because of strong resistance from the children, of anguished fare veils at Kabul Airport and of children so homesick that they had to be sent home.
 The Soviet, if successful in their indoctrination of the young, vill at best produce a relatively small elite cadre of communist sympathizers. The Afghans, on the other hand, are preparing millions of young people for a fight to the finish in a struggle that seems destined to continue for many years
                                      NAM MIS-USED BY COMMUNISTS
 These days the puppet regime talks about a so-called International Conference of the non-aligned countries journalist being held in Kabul. The Soviet and regime's Radio and Television highlight the event as a victory for their policies.
 The main theme of the propaganda is:
 Journalists participating in the conference support the regime. They condemn outside interference in the affairs of democratic Afghanistan. They vere impressed by political, economic and Social achievements of the regime. The journalists felt the need for the presence of the Soviet forces in Afghanistan.
 It seems that the participants of the so-called conference are not journalist but political activists on the Soviets pay roll. A journalist reports vhat he sees and let others form opinions. It is interesting to see that in introduction of each journalist. Kabul Radio gave them the title of comrade, a title vhich is given only to communists.
 During the conference Zimbabwe stgned an agreement of cooperation vith the puppet regime in the field of journalism. Robert Mugabe, the chairman of NAM vho is a Marxist has rendered his services for the Soviet expansionist policies in Afghanistan and this so-called International conference is part of that. Soviets and the communist element in the NAM (Mugabe In the position of the current chairman of the organization) will use the name of this movement to Justify their crimes against humanity and in this vay discredit the movement The silence of other members of the movement about mis-using the name of NAM is deplorable
                                        FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD
We were busy photographing the religious books vhich were deliberately hit by Soviet soldier in the largest mosque of the Panjshir volley in the town of Rtikha in the summer of 1981. The caretaker of the mosque vho was an old man of about 80 was taking the books in his hand to be photographed. The old man was burned to death by the Soviet soldiers 3 months later.
                                                 I
Commander Abdul Wasay - the commander of the area - whispered in my ear that «i enemy column Js proceeding along the valley towards the only garrison the enemy possessed in the town . The commander gave the necessary orders to his men . Everybody thought that the column was part of a big force and expected anew major offensive.
The column which was protected by gunship Helicopters reach the town. Mujahideen ambushed the column. The commander fired two RPG-2 shells at an APC and set it on fire. An oil tanker and a truck were set on fire too. Everybody did a good job but the work of four people was extra-ordinary.
Commander Wasay was firing RPG-2 Payanda Mohammad a 17 year old boy who had his first experience in the war. together with Gulhaider fought without taking cover.
RFDHfltl t £116 VCL.III, »«. 13, 1/7/ I96T? PflCE 10-
Sher Aghaa young photographer and fighter entered the burning APC and took out 17 Guns and several boxes of ammunition. Every minute there vas the possibility that the APC might explode.
The outcome of the Ambush vas that 20 soldiers and officers vere captured and 17 guns seized. 3 civilians we martyred as a result of the enemy's indiscriminate fire.
Prisoners we released after a short interrogation and the happy nevs reached every body in the valley and all the people in the valley thanked Almighty Allah for the victory over the enemy of their faith.
It is interesting to knov about the fate of the four young heroes vho von the victory:
Commander Vasay vas martyred tvo months later after the event in a face-to-face battle. He vas a real hero and nil be remembered for ever. Payanda Mohammad lived 3 months more and vas martyred tvo meters avay from his enemy positions in a very
close combat.
Sher Agha lived longer and continued to fight, film and photograph He vas martyred in a battle tvo years later. The only survivor is Gul Haider, vho lost one of his legs in a land-mine explosion. He made an artificadl leg and returned to the area. Mujahideen from the area honored him by choosing him as their commander. He is conducting the var against the enemy vith high morals and firm belief in final victory.
Prophet Mohammad (P.B.U.H) said:
Fear Rllah wherever gou are, and follow up a bad deed mith a good one and it mill mipe it out, and behave mell towards people".
                                          UNFAIR REPORTING
    Unlike the Soviets and their puppets. Mujahideen do not put any conditions on the reporters vhom they take into the country and leave them to report vhat they see.
    To dramatize their reports, some reporters attribute some actions to the Mujahideen vhich they have not done One of the reporters of Time Magazine vho visited the liberated areas of Afghanistan recently quoted a Mujahid as saying that the Mujahideen cut the throats of the Soviet prisoners, throv them from cliffs, or stone them to death. .
    Mujahideen are Muslims and fight the var based on the principles of Islam. Islam is forbids the mistreatment of the prisoners Jehad is not a var ■vith no rules as the reporter has put it. In the past Mujahideen have released several Soviet prisoners and are keeping tens of them like guests in the liberated areas. Mujahideen's humanitarian action of POVs have been unilateral and not reciprocated vith the Soviet and their puppets . It is the mistake of the reporter to quote an individual on such an important issue vithout checking the facts vith responsible people.
    These stories are vritten to dramatize the report but it conveys a vrong message and ____damages the credibility of the resistance. _____________________________
 1 IMTKEHAffli OrAUCOHn ALLAH 1
AFGH ANnews
             A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                     VOL. Ill, NO. 14, 15/7/1987.
                              THE POLITICAL ASPECT OF THE AFGHAN ISSUE
 The Soviets have become active in the political si<Je of the Afghan var and pay more attention to that than in the past . This nev mode has made some people say that Gorbachev vents to get out of Afghanistan. But the facts on the ground speak against * such a theory at least for the time being.lt seems that he vants to vin the var both in the military and political fields. A brief study of the Soviets steps in Afghanistan (of _ course through the puppets) shovs their real intentions:
 A- WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS
                               i
 They vithdrev some units vith a fanfare but choose the ones vhich vere un-useable against the Mujahideen and vas not folloved by further similar steps. This partial vithdraval did not have any effect on the var vhich is escalating each year.
 B- CEASE FIRE
 The Cease fire vas announced but never observed by the Soviet or their puppets. Mujahideen rejected the cease fire because it vas not part of a vhole operation of bringing back peace and vithdraval of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan. Soviets vented to shov that they vented peace and Mujahideen vere var mongers. Vhile the thief vas still in the house the vise person knev that cease fire vas neaningless. Soviet designs vas foiled by the united position of the Mujahideen inside the country and in the refugee camps but could create some questions in the minds of some of those vho may accept propaganda offered under the label of peace.
 C- NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
                                                      •
 This term does not have a real meaning in the context of Afghan var because the conflict is not betveen different parts of the Afghan nation. The Soviet invaders are in one side and Afghan nation in the other. Soviets vent to say that puppets are part of nation but seven years of occupation could not give them such a status. Quisling could not become part of the Norwegian nation and vas killed and so is the position of the puppets in Afghanistan.
 The attempts of the Soviets and their puppet under the name of national reconciliation has not earned them any merit . Though the regime claims that a large number of refugees have returned home and a large number of armed men have laid dovn their arms, facts shov quite the opposite of that. Refugees continue to flov to the neighboring countries and soldiers defect in great numbers.
 The regime has promised aid for the returning refugees, but the response from the refugee population has been negative. Regime has intensified its propaganda by accusing Pakistan for creating problems on the vay of those refugees vho vanted to return to Afghanistan and complained to the UN. But refused to accept the Pakistan offer for investigation by UNHCR teams because there is not an element of truth in the claims of the regime and Soviets.
 About the armed groups, a fev grpups vho had already had been planted by KHAD may have joined the regime after the announcement of the National Reconciliation, but their number is very small. What the regime claims is absolute exaggeration.
o f
flFDHfN tEM0 VCL. Ill, HO. 14, «ft)              ***  1
 D- COALITION GOVEUQfEMT AMI ZAUA KEAN
 The puppet regime directly and Soviets indirectly have said that, they are ready to share pover vith the opposition forces and have said that Zahir Khan can play a role. These hints generated a lot of optimism and some people thought that the political
 solution is close.
 About a coalition government vith the communist Mujahideen said that it vas impossible for them to take part in a government vhen communists vere part of it. The people have rejected communists role and Islam and communism can not live together. Soviet knev this vhen they told their puppets to offer such a thing. They vanted to put Mujahideen in a bad position for rejecting another so-called “peace proposal".
                                                                                                                  «
 Zahir Khan is a more controversial issue than it seems to the outsiders. The majority of Afghan resistance groups feel that his role as a leader has past. This is due to his past mistakes, veak personality and the changes vhich Afghan society has undergone. The people vho have seen the ex-King recently, have got the impression that he is' ignorant about the present situation in Afghanistan and is not ready to take the trouble of organizing and planning for his possible return. He is waiting for an international invitation to go to Afghanistan apd expects the people to be obedient. Vali Khan, Zahir Khan s son-in-lav is the real actor vho vents to use the name of the ex-king for his ovn ambitions.
 E- CHANGE OF.NAME AMI MUIII-FAHTT SYSTEM
 Najib is talking about the change of the name of the regime.Under the directives from the Soviets, he vants to drop the Democratic vord and change DRA (Democratic Republic of Afghanistan ) to RA ( Republic of Afghanistan): This vill not bring the regime any good at home. Khalis, the current spokesman of the alliance, rightly has said that a change of saddle does not change the nature of the donkey.
 More interesting is the idea of multi-party system in an occupied country Najib after announcing this program put one condition and that vat loyalty of the parties to the Soviets If the people vere loyal to the Soviet, vhy did they fight so long. No matter hov much the Soviets repair the old and rusty engine of the regime and introduce n6st spare parts in it this regime does not do its job the vay Soviets expect because it is imported from outside to an environment vhich acts against it.
 F- GENEVA TALKS
 Geneva is a place vhere Pakistan is meeting vith the puppet regime to find a solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The Geneva format is veak and does not include the principal factors in the conflict and does not touch the important issue of the right for self determination. Although the sides have made progress in a time frame The more they are close to a timetable the more practical problems vill surface. There is no hope that the Geneva present format can bring any solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
 G. SOVIETS LATE DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE
 Soviets have intensified their activities in the diplomatic field. The restrictions vhich Western countries had put in their relations vith the Soviet have been lifted. Normal trade and normal diplomatic relationship is re-established. Soviet’s position in MAM is good because the three successive chairmen of NAM; Cuba. India and Zimbabve are friendly to that country and do not condemn the Soviet invasion of a non-aligned Afghanistan India is the biggest trade partner of the puppets outside Soviet block and Zimbabve is expanding its relations vith the puppet regime. Of course “Comrade Castro’ is Najib's uncle. This type of situation and presence of the regime in that organisation and continued Soviet effort to buy off or intimidate more countries to change their
flFBHPH KiWS VOL. Ill, HO. 14, t5f?t 1967 PftCE 3
 policies from supporting the cause of freedom to support of the regime, put the resistance in a diff icult position.
 The real target of the Soviet penetration at the moment is OIC. Soviets have some close friends in this organization and are trying to make more by exploiting the Gulf situation and Irangate scandal The 0.I.C summit in Kuwait was a weak one as far as Afghanistan issue was concerned arid that was as the result of the policy of Kuwait government not to make the Soviets angry. Protection of oil tankers is a service off ered by the Soviets to Kuwait and must be paid in the form of ignoring an invasion and the suffering of millions of Muslims
 H PRESSURE OH PAKISTAN
 Pakistan being a country which hosts a large number of refugees and actively supports « the struggle of the people of Afghanistan, is a target of Soviet subversive activities Although the enmity of the Soviets towards Pakistan is not new, the new situation has given it more importance. Co-ordinated efforts by India, puppet regime and Soviet Union to de-stabilise Pakistan is continuing. They make use of local separatist group? and communist elements to propagate their aims They try very hard to blame Afghan refugees for every thing which happens in this country without bothering themselves to give evidence. Thanks to the patience and hospitality of our Pakistani brothers their designs are foiled.
 I CONCLUSION
 Afghans are in favor of peace They need peace to return to their country and live a normal life. To do this they have minimal conditions:
       a - Unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops, b - Right for self-determination.
 The response of the Soviets to this simple demand, so far, has been negative. The war has escalated since Gorbachev has come to power, more people have been killed and more people have been driven out of the country. The political program of Soviets is directed towards deceiving the world public opinion and consolidation of the puppet regime. They use a new language but say the same old things What they are offering does not lead to real freedom of Afghanistan but makes the situation more complicated
 The key to the solution of the Afghan issue is in the hands of the Soviets. If they guarantee the withdrawal of their troops, we guarantee the return of peace in a free, non-aligned Islamic Afghanistan.
                               THE LOSS OF A PROMINENT JAMIAT COMMANDER
 We have received the sad news of the martyrdom of Com Safiullah Alkali, a prominent Jamiat commander in Herat province.
 When Com. Saffiullah was returning from the border town of Haji Abad to join his family who are living in Iran, his car was ambushed by a. group of armed men on Taibat-Turbat Road ( inside Iran) on 7/7/1987. Commander Saffiullah and two of his Mujahideen were immediately martyred while another Mujahid was seriously injured. The criminals were not immediately recognized but it is believed that communist elements ( both Irani and Afghan ) had a hand behind the plot.
 Commander Saffiullah started his armed struggle in Herat from the beginning of communist coup. He had many capabilities in fighting and organizational work and his death is a big loss for all the Mujahideen, especially Jamiat Islami Afghanistan. He was a graduate of the faculty of science of Kabul university.
RFBHPH NEWS VCL. Ill, HO. 14, 15/7/ 19GT? PflGE 4
NEWS
FROM THE BATTLEFIELDS
                                              PANJSHIR VALLEY
On 3/5/1987, one Tank and one Truck full of Ammunition were destroyed at the month of Panjshir valley vhen they hit landmines planted by the Mujahideen.
fighting activities in Panjshir valley have increased in the past one an half months. From 21 /5/87 to 23/5/87, a total of 21 enemy (Soviet and DR A) soldiers were killed as a result of heavy weapons fired by the Mujahideen. Fighting continues and enemy air force daily bomb the suspected positions of Mujahideen all along the valley
25/5/1987, One Tank and one APC were destroyed by landmines in Changaram (Bazarak area) and all their occupants were killed.
According to a late report from Panjshir, on 23/5/1987, one enemy helicopter was shot down with DSChK fire in Badqool of Bazarafc On the same day two trucks were destroyed by landmines in the same area.
On 27/5/1987, six Soviet soldiers were killed when they fell into an ambush set by the Mujahideen of Hesarak ( a side valley in Rukha). On the same day two enemy trucks were destroyed with heavy weapon fire in Rukha and an unknown number of enemy soldiers were either killed or wounded.
On 28/5/1987, one enemy APC was destroyed by lend mine in Zamankoor ( about 10 Km. inside the main valley). There is no information about the number of enemy soldiers killed in the incident.
                                               HERAT PROVINCE
June 22. According to a report sent by commander Esmaiel Khan to Mash-had. Mujahideen of Herat attacked a KHAD office called, Zone-Shahri Herat (Khad of city Zone) As a result of which 11 members of it including Eidi Gul, a high ranking member, were killed. 10 AK-47 were captured.
June 22. Eleven Militia troops headed by Ali Ahmad joined Mujahideen of Sia-U-Shan (10 Km south of the city) along with their guns.
                   June 22/1987. Mujahideen attacked on a security post of Herat airport at Sia-u-Shan
flFBHFN HEMS VCL.Ill, NO.14, 15/?/.1997 POCE f
area. The post vas captured, 10 AK-47, one DSHK, one R-108 communication set and one pistol vere seised. A number of enemy vere killed. Mujahideen also captured 8 soldiers and one officer. In retaliation the enemy used long-range artillery against the civilians vhich resulted in the destruction of many houses and the deaths of two people. 12 people including ■women, old men and children vere bounded
June 25/1987: Mujahideen vith a planted land-mine destroyed a BRDM on the H&ulavi jami street (North of the city) All of its occupants vere killed and 2 AK-47 vere seized.
June 27/1987: The enemy used air raids and long-range artillery against the villages of Farsi district (betveen Herat and Ghor). One Helicopter vas shot down by Mujahideen in Naysk area of Tulak district of Ghor province.
                           FARYAB PROVINCE                                  «
On 14/6/1987. the enemy forces attacked Yakatoot village in Andkhoy district. Mujahideen resisted the enemy. 25 enemy soldiers vere either killed or vounded. Several harvests vere set on fire by the enemy forces. Mujahideen suffered no '
casualties
On 17/6/1987, Mujahideen clashed vith communist forces in the villages of Char Shmghoor and Shaikh Leeq in tfovlatabad district. 12 DRA soldiers vere killed and 53 others captured along vith 40 guns, and some ammunition.
On 24/6/1987, the enemy forces vented to search the villages of Yakatoot end Sergen Bagh in Andkhoy district but faced resistance by the Mujahideen. 3 Trucks and two Tanks belonging to DRA vere destroyed and more than 20 Militias vere killed. 11 Mujahideen vere injured during the operation.
                                              BAGH LAN PROVINCE
24/5/87. Soviet-DRA forces launched an attack against Pashaei valley in Andarab district Baghlan province. Mujahideen resisted strongly. Ten tanks and trucks vere destroyed and an approximate number of 100 Soviet-DRA soldiers vere either killed or vounded. The enemy retreated after suffering heavy casualties. The report does not give any figures for the casualties of the Mujahideen.
                                                NORTH OF KABUL
A report sent by Dr. Khan Aqha, Jamiat commander in Qala-i-Morad Baig, about 15 Km North of Kabul, says that Mujahideen attacked a militia post in Safid Qala of Shakar Dara district on 26/6/87. Fighting vhich took place at night continued for one hour. Abdul Vakil the militia commander and 12 of his men vere captured. Tvo militias vere killed and three others vounded. Mujahideen captured 14 guns, some ammunition, clothes and food stuff.
Khan Agha leads one of the most organized fronts of Jamiat in the area and has been
fighting fighting since 1979.
                                                        ***
                      PROF. RABBANI RECEIVED FRENCH DELEGATION
A French parliamentary delegation representing all the parties, except the French Communist Party, met Prof. Rabbani on Tuesday July the 7th in Peshavar. Prof. Rabbani briefed the delegation about the latest military and political situation in Afghanistan and ansvered their questions. The head of the delegation assured Professor of continued support of French people and government to Afghan people
HFBHflN tCUS VOL.Ill, NO.14, 15/?/ 190? PflGE 6
who sire struggling for the freedom of their country. At the end of the meeting the delegation saw the exhibition in which pieces of different types of Soviet bombs and weapons used against the people of Afghanistan is is displayed. The members of the delegation were impressed by the exhibition and signed their feelings in the visitors
book.
The delegation were accompanied by three French journalists arid a diplomat from the
french mission in Islamabad.
    PROF RABBANI’S LETTER TO OIC GENERAL SECRETARY
                                                 Peshawar
                                                 2/7/198?
S. Sharafuddin Pirzada General Secretary Organisation of Islamic Conference
Dear brother Assalamu Alaikum wa Rahmatullah
The tragedy of the people of Afghanisten still continues. Every day, more people are Killed, maimed or driven out of their country Besides the military operation which is an ever-escalating phenomenon, Soviet leaders have started a sophisticated political war against Afghans to cover their atrocities and minimize the political cost of their
aggression.
The resolution passed by 0.1.C on different occasions has been ignored by the Soviets. In the past few months we have been a witness to the Soviets' increased efforts for misleading the Muslim world by giving false hopes for a political solution to Afghan issue in the near future In fact we see the opposite of vhat they say On one hand, they have increased the level of their military activities, on the other hand they want to isolate Mujahideen and win support for the puppet regime which they instelled in Kabul and protect with 150,000 troops. Along these lines, the Soviets have been able to convince the Iraq regime to re-new its economic ties with the puppet regime in Kabul and prime minister of the puppet regime paid an official visit to Baghdad in June.
The Afghan nation condemns Baghdad regime's decision vhich grossly violates ell the resolutions passed by 0.1 C on diff erent occasions By this action the Iraqi government stood in the side of the murderers of Muslims and took side with aggressors
I ask your excellency to inform the Iraqi government about the feelings of Afghan Muiahid nation towards their late decision of expending cooperation with the puppet regime. Ve also ask O.I.C to take appropriate measures against the Iraqi regime for violating the resolutions of O.I.C which clearly ask from the member states to refrain from having contacts with the puppet regime in Kabul
ttfe continue our just struggle against all odds, but it is the religious responsibility of all Muslims to support us in our efforts for freedom of Islamic Afghanistan
Vith the best regards.
                                                 Yours in Islam Prof. BJtabbani Ameer
                                                 Jamiat Islami Afghanistan.
flFDHfH ttWS VOL.Ill, HO.14, 15/7/ 1907 PflCE ?
                               EXTENTION OF NON-EXISTING CEASE FIRE
 The puppet regime’s lea<Jer has said that the "cease fire" announced on January 15 vill be extended. The regime announced such a “cease fire" in January 15 but neither the regime nor the Mujahideen observed the so-called cease-fire.
 After the announcement of the cease fire var escalated and even the Soviet-DrA forces launched several large scale offensives against Mujahideen positions. The wr against refugees end Pakistani people intensified and more than 300 people lost their lives during the current year. The influx of refugees to Pakistan continued. Under these circumstances vhen no cease fire existed, the. extention of the cease fire is no more than continuation of the propaganda launched by the Soviets and their puppets under the name of "National Reconciliation” and “cease fire".
 No doubt Soviets have benefited from the propaganda they made about "cease fire" and "National Reconciliation”, and vant to continue their propaganda as long as it serves
 their interests.
                                       UN REPORTER VISITS KABUL
 It is reported that UN special reporter on Violation of Human Rights in Afghanistan, Dr Felix Ermacora, -will be alloved by the Soviets to visit Kabul soon. He vas not allowed in the past to visit occupied Afghanistan This late decision of the Soviets is pari of their political game to vin credit for their puppets. Dr. Ermacora's trip vill be a difficult one. He vill be keen to get detailed inf ormation about the real situation vhile his hosts try to pre-arrange every thing and hide the facts.
 Ve believe the UN special reporter is fully avare of the .situation in occupied Afghanistan end vill not limit his activities to vhat the Soviets and their puppet vent him to do, but ask difficult questions concerning the violation of Human Rights
 Dr Ermacora has done a good job in the past by filing reports on violation of human rights m Afghanistan and in drawing public attention tovards the biggest tragedy of
 our time.
                              THE ROLE OF THE HORSES IN AFGHAN JEHAD
 Transportation of supplies and patients are important parts of the vhols armed struggle. In a mountainous country like Afghanistan, pack animals, especially horses play an important role in this respect.
 The armed struggle covers the length and the breath of Afghanistan. Thousands of tons of equipment and supplies of different kinds are carried hundreds of miles each year. Due \u Soviet aerial superiority, venerability of the roads to the enemy ambushes and ruggedness of the terrain vehicular transportation is very limited to the flat areas of South and South-Vest. Camels are being used for transportation but due to its slov movement, huge si2e and inability io go on rough terrain, they have limited use
 Donkeys are being used but they are slov and carry little load and have problems crossing rivers and bridges Mules are being used by the Mujahideen but since Afghans were not traditionally using mules as a domestic pack animal fevof them are available, alter cl 1 horses remain the main pack animal used for transportation.
 Before the var local people all over the country, especially in the North used horses for riding and transportation of goods. Ordinary farmers kept ordinary horses but rich people- kept strong and beautiful horses for riding and sports — "BuzkasTn” and horse
 races.
 Due to this background people of Afghanistan are familiar vith horses, knov hov to take care of them and feel comfortable vorking vith them. This is the major reason vhy the horses have become the principle pack animal of Jehad.
RFBHm hEW6 VOL! Ill, NO. 14, 18/7/ 1907 PACE %
 Thousand of horses packed with.food, medicine, equipment, books and other essential commodities travel in big caravans of a hundred horses for "weeks from border to border of Afghanistan. Like other creatures in Afghanistan these poor animals also suffer from Soviet bombardments, mines and ambushes. Horses are also subjected to severe weather, lack of food, and attack from many kinds of diseases.
 If one trawls to the North along the summer route, one can observe the big job the horses do and the extent to "which they suffer. The blood stains from the legs of the horses have drawn a red line from the border of Pakistan which is extended hundreds of miles to the soft and fertile plateaus of the North. One can witness hundreds of dead horses who have been killed either by the Soviet invaders or the harsh climate, fatigue and disease
 Seeing this one wonders why so far no body has come forward to form a clinic to treat horses and save their precious lives. Even the Mujahideen organizations have not paid attention to the suffering of these poor animals who serve a very important cause
                                                            i             i
 A surprising thing in the whole business of transportation and use of the horse is the old and traditional type of peeking In this system the load is pui on the horses and then tied with long and rough ropes. They do not use hooks but knots which adds to the discomfort of the poor animal
 I do not understand why a new system has not been developed which would be comfortable for the horse and easy for the drivers to use. Looking at some army books one sees that very useful systems have been 'developed Even if that system is introduced on an experimental basis if it proved useful the people would copy it.
 Like Afghan men and women horses also face shortage of foddenalong the way. This is one of the reasons why so many of them die along the route. Horses have become an essential necessity for the resistance and a means of living for a large number of families inside Afghanistan and in the refugee camps A large number of people are busy transporting goods to the country to earn some thing for their families
 Due to increased demand for transportation and enemy attack of supply routes transportation cost have sharply increased and so has the price of the horses. Mujahideen who are fully aware,of the need of more horses encourage the people in the country to keep horses.
 One of the ways is encouragement of the tradition "Euskashi" game which is played by men riding hGrses Horses are also used for riding and transportation of wounded to sale bases inside or out of the country
 Because of the above reasons Soviets are aware of the value of the Afghan horses and shoot them where they see them. I have been a witness when two Jets fired rockets and dropped cluster bombs on a single horse and killed it.
 As long as the war continues the horses continue to play their positive roles and risk their lives to liberate Afghanistan Vithout the contribution of the horses Jehad would not have been in a good as shape as is now.
              , SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
                                      The Polish people, themselves victims of Soviet oppression, are developing into some of the strongest supporters for the Afghan resistance. Vithin Poland itself some 400 articles on Afghanistan were written in the underground press during 1985. Almost 800 articles were dedicated to Afghanistan during 1986. Several books on the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan have also appeared within Poland, as well as stamps honoring the Afghan resistance. Several Polish movements have proclaimed the 1st of May as “Afghanistan Resistance Solidarity Day.” In Craxov last summer a. movement called Liberty and peace sold more than 1,300 “shares" at 100 zlotys each in favor of the Afghan resistance. On June 24 an organization from “groupy oporu" (Resistance
flFBHPNtEHSVa-.nl, NO. 14, 15/7/ 1907 PACE <\
 Groups), originating from the Solidarity movement , unfurled a banner in. th e. center of Warsaw which called for support for Afghanistan. A number of Polish priests from varioias churches held prayers during December "for the Afghan people who have been struggling for numerous years".
 One monument showing Polish support for Afghanistan lies on a trail m Nuristan. A simple wooden cross with the inscription: "Lech Zondek, Polish Soldier”. Zondek left Poland in 1981 in order to lend assistance to the Afghan resistance, and was killed on July 4, 1985. Another Pole showing his support for the Afghan people's struggle is laced-Adam Winkler who first entered Afghanistan for five months in 1985 and returned once again at the beginning of 1987, “with the agreement of his family ."
                         TURKESTANI CONSCIOUSNESS REMAINS POWERFUL
                                            BY ABDULLAH KWAJA
 First of all I would like to affirm the deep hostility which Turkestani si f-jel toward Moscow. The resistance of an oppressed people can be seen in every sphei a of life, and today, I would like to briefly outline signs of resistance to Soviet Russian ’yl'^iaiusm and Soviet social engineering in Turkestan. The communist Party continue to find it impossible to gain the cooperation'of the Turkestani people in the fields of economics, ideology and culture.
 Consider the economic performance of Turkestan. Moscow has tried to unite Turkestan to Soviet Russia by eliminating all local production which once made Tujl.estan self-sufficient and independent Gosplan outlines productivity targets which res:cable the demands of colonial administrators; deliver cotton, silk, oil and varif-vs natural resources. But the Turkestani* are always resistant, negligent, cud ultimately unfaithful because their union with the Russian communist empire we'1 c: .ruminated by brute force alone. Since Gorbachev's ascent to power, more than. 10,000 local officials in Uzbekistan have been purged
 In the realm of ideology, Moscow's aim to de- Islamicize Turkestan, while appearing to uphold and respect the religion in its dealings with the Islamic world at . vr % leaves the Kremlin pursuing irreconcilable policies and unachievable objective; Basically, the compulsion of communism to destroy any alternative world view faces o Herculean task in destroying Islam in Turkestan,
 This stems from the fact that Islam not only has a long and glorious history in Turkestan, but national identity and Islam are fused in the minds of the Tuikestanis. It cannot be overemphasized that a Turkestani loses his identity, ethnicity, and culture when he dispenses with his religion Therefore, a Turkestani does not oe.i.y if ever forsake his religion. The communist Party has worked constantly to extinguish Turkestani national and religious identity by separating the two. EoLLcvifc tactics involved the division of Turkestan into tribal sub-units and the systematic discrediting of Islam as a so-called "counter-revolutionary force''. But despite these assaults, I an proud to say, Turkestani Muslim consciousness remains powerful. In short, ‘he national and religious identity of Turkestani; remains intact and largely uncom-remised by Sovietization.
 Madrassas or schools which provide an Islamic education are bent constantly discovered to irritate the Russian authorities. Despite arrests and imprisonment, independent Mullahs continue to teach in Turkestan Secret Sufi orders, militantly devoted to the establishment of a Turkestani Muslim state on the ashes of Russia's colonial administration are strong and growing. In light of these facts, it comes as no surprise that the Soviet Russian government’s publication of anti-Islamic literature is on the risa or that the activities of atheist propagandists have been intensified.
 Communism and Islam cannot be reconciled. Remember that the Muslims of Turkestan, the Caucasus and Volga regions consist of 50 million people, and they are reproducing
flFPHFH 1EM9 VOL. Ill, HO. 14, 15/7/ 19®7 PAGE 10----------------------------i
 very rapidly. This fact represents a permanent crisis for the Soviet Nationalities Policy The Kremlin faces two irreconcilable policy directives: Muslims must be assimilated into the upper levels of the Soviet Russian system to avoid a 'worsening of colonial appearances., by the same token, these same Muslims are too sceptical and nationalistic to be drawn into the system.
 Culturally, Sovietization and Russification have made little headway in Turkestan The repeated alphabet changes and demands to "internationalise" Turkestani culture have brought about only cosmetic changes. The elementary fact is that Turkestani culture is
 extremely self-contained.
 Nevertheless, the cutting edge of Russian dominance in the empire’s cultural policy can be felt in the linguistic sphere. Pressure to speak Russian and to neglect local « languages is intense. But Turkestani intellectuals, and even local party members are. today fighting the cutbacks in local language instruction and literary study Consider the renowned author Chingiz Aytmatov s recent statements to Literaturnaya Gazeta in which he said The immortality of a people lies in its language. Every language is great -for its own people Each of us has the filial duty to the people which have given birth and presented us with our greatest vealth-our own language. A duty to preserve its purity and to multiply its riches Aytmatov^ statement is the self-respecting, proud voice of nationalism and sense of defiant self-assertion.
 The Afghan problem is still unsolved. Since September 1979 the Red Amy in Afghanistan hes killed more than a million innocent men, women end children, destroyed 60% of all villages, 4 million refugees escaped from torture to Pakistan and Iran, leaving behind their beloved homeland. Today. 39% of the world's surface has been occupied by communism and 42% of the world population is communist or controlled by force. You are all well aware of communist infiltration in Asia *he Middle East, Africa and Central America for example Nicaragua right cm the doorstep of the United states. To keep the germ of communism out of the American hemisphere we should give aid to the Nicaraguan Freedom fighters.
 ¥e Turkestanis strongly condemn the Soviet Russian government's handling of the Chernobyl nuclear catastrophe in Ukraine, by keeping it secret for many days from their own citizens. This is one of their usual methods.
 Peace in the Vest means to live in harmony, justice and equality. But peace in communist terms means more occupation, more human blood and more genocide. By talking and sending their peace missionaries to the Vest, the communists are deceiving the Vest. If they really mean peace, they should get out of Afghanistan and all the other subjugated nations and practice communist ideology on their own territory.
 The time has come for a united front to stand up, in one unison against the enemy of God, Freedom and liberty. I pray to God to give us strength and courage to speak out for those innocent people who are living behind the Iron Curtain and hoping to see the
 fall of the Russian empire.
!                  are irurLrgfPfVKamfg
                    I THE NEW PHONE NUMBER OF THE POLITICAL COMMITTEE : OF JAM! AT I SLAM I OF AFGHANISTAN WILL BE 401 10
' FROM JULY 15TH, 1987 ;  
                          
