Vol 6, No 7                                                April 1,1990
UN demining wastes money
Tanai says he is still a member of PDPA
     The UN demining program has been criticized by an expert who formerly ran the program.
     According to Washington Post, Rae McGrath, a landmine specialist who spent 18 years in the British army before joining the UN's Afghan de-mining program as its field supervisor, said in an interview that the United Nations has grossly exaggerated the impact of its program, in part to raise money from Western donors.
     He claimed large sums have been wasted on poorly planned and badly monitored educational programs for refugees.
     "We’re not running a mine eradication program, which is what the donors are giving the money for and what needs to done,” McGrath said. After a dispute with his superiors over the program, McGrath said, he is preparing to leave the United Nations. Others associated with the program, who asked not to be identified, said they agreed with the thrust of McGrath’s criticism.
     UN officials defend their mine program as the best possible under difficult circumstances. No massive mine clearance work can take place inside Afghanistan until the country's war between government and Mujahideen forces is over, they say, and in the meantime millions, of dollars are needed from the West to prepare refugees to clean up their country when they eventually go home.
     The resistance groups had long since expressed their unhappiness with the program. If UN had listened to their suggestions and had worked with the field commanders, with a fraction of that money large areas could have been cleared of mines.
     The ex-defence minister of the Kabul regime and leader of failed coup told reporters on March 14 that his struggle to overthrow Najib will continue.
     General Shah Nawaz Tanai met with 30 journalists in a Hezb Islami base camp in Logar province, about 70 kilometers from Kabul, for the first time since the failure of the coup.
     He said that his coup against Najib failed because Soviet planes bombed Bagram air base, which was controlled by his supporters, and disrupted his communication link.
     He claimed that his supporters are still fighting against Najib northeast and northwest of Kabul.
     Tanai was dressed in a military uniform and was accompanied by Niaz Mohammad Mohmand, a member of ruling party politburo, and two generals.
     All his guards were Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar).
     He claimed that he was still residing in Afghanistan, leading the war against Najib from a mobile high command, but the journalists doubted this explanation.
     He told the reporters that he had come from an area close to Pul-i-Alam, the provincial capital of Logar, to meet them.
     Journalists were told by Mujahideen from another group that Tanai’s convoy had been seen moving toward Logar from the Pakistan border the previous day.
     Tanai gave the impression of a professional soldier rather than a politician. He continuously consulted with Niaz Mohammad Mohmand when he was asked tough questions.
     Tanai said that he was still a member of die PDPA and that he considered himself the legal defence minister Of Afghanistan.
     In response to a question as to whether he had denounced commu-
 nism, he said that he was bom a Muslim and Afghanistan was an Islamic country.
     He added that the PDPA program should be changed so that it could play a positive role in the future life of Afghans.
     He denied forming an alliance with Hezb, but said that the two sides have reached a tactical understanding to oppose Najib. He thanked Hikmatyar for his support to the coup^ against Najib, and asked other Mujahideen leaders to cooperate with anti-Najib forces. He said that despite past differences, he and the Mujahideen have a common goal to oust Najib.
     General Tanai admitted his past mistakes, but said that he now has taken the people's side and thatthis action should compensate for his errors.
     He asked his followers in the armed forces of the regime to cooper-ate with Hezb Mujahideen, so that the Kabul regime would be overthrown and an interim government could take its place, then hold free elections within six months.
     He emphasized the heed for forming a revolutionary council of Mujahideen and patriotic military officers after Najib is forced out.
     Tanai said that his uprising against Najib was aimed at paving the way for National Reconciliation.
     He criticized the Soviet role in Afghanistan because of Soviet support to Najib during the coup, and preventing Afghans from determining their future. Tanai claimed that most of the soldiers defending Khost and Jalalabad were his supporters, and that they will surrender to the Mujahideen when he tells them to.
     He said that he was busy reorganizing his forces and establishing contacts with them so that the war against Najib could continue. He predicted Najib's fall in the near future.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1,1990, page ©
    Herat Province
    On thellth anniversary of the Herat uprising on March 15, Herat Mujahideen attacked enemy positions in and around Herat city. Following is the account of each action:
    1.    Ten militiamen were killed in the Marghaz area. Two Mujahideen were also killed in the operation.
    2.    One militiaman was killed and four were wounded in Qala-i-Turkman.
    3.    Two trucks were set on fire when the Mujahideen fired rockets into the regime’s cement plant
    4.    Three militiamen were killed and an unknown number were injured in Baba Haji area.
    5.    An enemy armored car caught fire in Khawaj Kala area when the Mujahideen hit it with a rocket All the crewmen were killed.
    6.    The Mujahideen killed three militiamen and destroyed a ZPU machine gun (14.6 mm) in Shorn Khana area.
    7.    Thrift militiamen belonging to Sayed Ahmad were killed and two were injured when the Mujahideen fired rockets into their positions.
    8.    An enemy outpost was destroyed near Malan Bridge when the Mujahideen attacked it with mortars.
    In retaliation for the Mujahideen attacks, the enemy fired rockets into liberated areas, killing one civilian.
  Kandahar Province
    Eleven communist soldiers were killed on March 19 when their truck hit a land mine planted by the Mujahideen of Commander Naqibullah near Kandahar Mahbas. The Mujahideen
seized one motorcycle.
    On March 13, the Mujahideen destroyed two enemy armored cars , set fire to an ammunition depot and killed 14 soldiers near Mahbas.
    Twelve armed soldiers joined Commander Naqibullah.
    Ghore Province
    On March 14, the Mujahideen in Shahrak district attacked enemy posts in Jilga-i-Mazar and Kamar Buz areas capturing 40 soldiers and seizing 100 guns. Fighting in the area continues.
    The posts were established sometime ago to protect Shahrak district.
    On March 18, seven enemy soldiers were killed and 10 were captured when Jami'at Mujahideen attacked the enemy position near the provincial capital.
    They seized 26 Kalashnikov rifles and one DSchK (12.6 mm) gun. One Mujahid was killed and four injured.
    More than 50 soldiers also defected to the Mujahideen.
    Kapisa Province
    Commander Shaheen attacked the enemy position on Pahlawan Koh, near Bagram air base, on March 19, destroying three posts in 30 minutes. The Mujahideen seized the . following weapons:
    One grenade launcher (AGS-17)
    One ZPU (14.6 mm) machine gun
    Ten Kalashnikov rifles
    One rocket launcher
    One hundred anti-personnel mines and large quantities of ammunition and foodstuffs.
    The report gave no casualty figures. *
    Shaheen is a well-known Jami'at commander in Kapisa.
                                                                                                    Shoora trains 350 teachers
    More than 350 teachers from three provinces were trained in winter courses organized by the education committee of the Supervisory Council.
    This was the first time since the beginning of the Jehad that such a seminar was held inside Afghanistan. It took place in Panjshir at the office of the education committee of the Supervisory Council.
    Teachers from Panjshir, Gulbahar, Kohband-i-Kohistan Istalif, Farzah, Ghorband, Bagram, Parwan Center and Jabulseraj took part.
    Each class of 50 students attended ten days of training. The subjects including history, geography, mathematics psychology, office management, Pushto and Dari. The students were lodged and fed by the education committee of Central Zone of the Supervisory Council.
    In addition to daily classes, the students took part in debates in which current issues were discussed. Interested Mujahideen also attended discussion classes.
    The aim of the seminar was to enhance the level of knowledge of the young teachers and create a sense of community among them. The best students were awarded with certificates and gifts.
    The organizers of the seminar were happy about the result of their work and found it useful for the teachers and the committee. -
    Winter is the best time for teachers to refresh their knowledge. Schools are bn holiday during the three winter months in the cold parts of Afghanistan.
                                                                                        Hezb deal
   | From page (8)
 will you wait?
    A. Moving from the defensive phase of the war to an offensive phase requires time for preparation. By the grace of God we have made speedy progress in creating the necessary military and political organizations, and in training the manpower needed to launch large-scale offensive operations. We are facing shortages of the heavy weapons and ammunition required to launch our attack.In the past limited amounts of military aid has been given us, and for a year all kinds of assistance to us have been cut God willing, once this need is filled our ma jor attacks will start.
AFGHANews Vol6, No7, April!, 1990, page ©
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
 Abdul Qadir Wasiqi
     Abdul Qadir Wasiqi, Jami'at commander in Shahr-i-Buzurg sub-district of Badakhshan, was bom 37 years ago into a religious family.
     He went to Nadeemy secondary school in his home town, besides learning the basics of Islam from his father.
     In school, he opposed communist teachers and students, who opposed religion and Afghan traditions. Communists formed the majority of the students and teachers in the Nadeemy school. The communists in Shahr-i-Buzurg, like the rest of Badakhshan, belonged to Setam-i-Milli, a splinter group of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
     A friend of Abdul Qadir said that out of 15 teachers, only three sympathized with the Islamic movement. The rest support Setam-i-Milli. Likewise 400 students supported the communist party; only 50 students were affiliated with the Islamic movement.
     Abdul Qadir and other young Islamic students fought an unbalanced battle against the communists' onslaught. Members of the Islamic movement from Faizabad High Schools helped them, however. Two people who gave Islamic literature and lessons to the students in Shahr-i-Buzurg were Abdul Latif Sediqi and Raha. Later Sediqi became the commander of Shahr-i-Buzurg, but was killed in a conspiracy hatched by Setam-i-Millii supporters using ordinary people.
     Abdul Qadir continued his studies in the Agricultural High School in Baghlan province. Despite being very active in politics; he was a good student, and always gained first position in his class.
     At one point he was dismissed from high school for three months because of his political activities. Nevertheless he finished school successfully and went to the Faculty of Agriculture at Kabul University.
     He was in the fourth class when the communists took power through a coup in 1978. Since he was a known member of Jami'at, he left the university along with some other students and came to Peshawar.
     He worked for a while as the deputy head of the Jami'at office in Chitral. In 1979 he returned to Badakhshan and participated in the liberation of several districts and subdistricts in Badakhshan Province, including Shahr-i-Buzurg.
     After Sediqi's death the situation in
 Shahr-i-Buzurg deteriorated. Members of Setam-i-Milli had infiltrated the Mujahideen's ranks. Wasiqi was sent to the area to correct the situatipn. He succeeded in informing the people of the danger of Setam-i-Milli’s activities. When the people saw him fighting against the Soviets and the puppet regime, they started to take him more seriously.
     Wasiqi evolved cordial relations with local ulamas and traditional elders. In some parts of Badakhshan relations between young Muslims activists and traditional religious scholars were not so good. The tension between the two was exploited by the communists. Wasiqi ha? established close links with the Supervisory Council of Jami'at headed by Ahmad Shah Masood. This contact has given him a sound partner from whom he can learn to how organize his forces and fight the enemy more effectively.
     Wasiqi is keen to educate the young, and for this purpose he has established six primary schools and three madrasas (religious schools).
     Wasiqi commands about 1500 Mujahideen. His immediate target is to liberate his hometown, which is occupied by more than two thousand regime troops and militiamen affiliated with Setam-i-Milli.
     Abdul Qadir,who is married and has two children, is famous for his piety and kind treatment of his people. The resistance in Shahr-i-Buzurg is privileged to be led by an educated and honest commander..
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
 My drum doesn’t do what I want it to.
 Meaning: Used when a servant, child or student does not do what you have told him to do.
          jl   ujuauJS jjI   IyiwL
 Only stretch your foot to the lenght of your blanket.
 Meaning: " Cut your coat according to your cloth:" or, don't overstretch your bounds.
 Walls have mice and mice have hears.
 Meaning: Secrets told are spread abroad.                  .
         4J'               4j
 A hint for a noble, a stick for the ignoble.
 Meaning: A nod for wise man and a rod for a fool.
    Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) said:
            -.'IS
■to make them long, then I hear mSjm child crying and make
M
the prayers brief because tjknovif the Child’s crying
 §!§§!
                                                                                                          111!

hurts the mother*”
 til
                liltl 13 UtC
 I . . .            ^    1............. ........................
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1, 1990, page ©
(PliilPlIPlII::                   v ■Will
glillll                           •••-•••• llllillf:; 111I.
S|ii|iii<                  TlllT           :*§R;
eiSs
PPBIWma i%»Pi8W
^W^awafe ffafrjjtahllta* YillMil-; * ■:.::«
  Editorial
  New year needs new thinking
    The Afghan new year began on March 21. The new year is a happy occasion, celebrated with hopes of peace and prosperity for the family and society.
    In Afghanistan die happy celebration of the new year,is a memory of the past. The Communist coup of 1978, followed by the Soviet invasion of 1979 has left 75% of the country devastated, one million dead and more than five million refugees. The war still continues and most Afghans are threatened by famine and disease.
    When Soviet troops left Afghanistan in February 1989, the people hoped to see an end to the war, and to resume their peaceful life. This dream was not fulfilled last, year because the Soviet Union continued to impose the illegal regime of Najibullah on the Afghans by supplying it with powerful weapons.
    The Soviet troop withdrawal raised hopes for a quick Mujahideen victory and the return of peace after a decade of war. It did not happen because of many internal and external reasons.
    One was that the Soviets continued to send large quantities of arms and ammunition to the Kabul regime while military supplies for the resistance decreased.
    The Afghan new year is a decisive year for the future of Afghanistan. The resistance should learn its lessons from last year's experiences to correct its mistakes, modify its tactics and organize itself better.
    The events of the current year hinge around the situation on the battlefield. The better the Mujahideen perform on the battlefield, the sooner peace will come.
    In order to fight better, the reistance needs to coordinate its military actions. It also needs to reorganize itself to wage an offensive war. The supporters of the resistance should supply the needed weapons and ammunition to the resistance and leave the Mujahideen to choose the type of fighting suitable to their situation.
    The political leadership of the resistance should pay closer attention to the battlefield and should not spend all its time and energy in political debates.
    They also should realize that the resistance is facing a sophisticated Soviet propaganda and disinformation campaign to undermine moral and material support of the outside world for the resistance.
    During the current year the resistance faces new challenges. A lot of outsider who supported our cause are getting impatient about the delay of the Mujahideen's victory. Anti-Soviet feeling in the West, which was a major factor in their support for the Afghan resistance, is replaced by sympathy for Mikhail Gorbachev. As a result of these changes the Soviet Union will come under less pressure to change its Afghan policy and leave Afghans to decide their future. This means that the Afghan resistance cannot count on outside support for much longer.
    Since the resistance is not ready, for obvious reasons, to sit down with the Kabul regime at the negotiating table, it is left with one option: the escalation of war against the regime.
    Once the Soviets and the regime have realized that they cannot hold out for long, the door to a meaningful political solution will open.
    This option requires hard work and united action. Last year showed that the Mujahideen's present level of coordination and military organization are not adequate to defeat a well-equipped regime fighting a defensive war. -
    Despite all the difficulties, the majority of Afghans want the end of the communist regime even if it means continuing the war. The resistance is still popular and in control of the strategic areas. It has the potential to go the offensive despite shortages of equipment and other resources. Let us hope that the coordinated efforts of the Mujahideen will make the year 1369 the last year of suffering for the Afghans.
                      AIG resumes election talks with S bias
     Efforts to bring the Iran-based Mujahideen parties in the fold of the AIG, and to gain their support for the proposed elections, continues with no sign of success.
     Sayed Ahmad Gailani, Chairman of the Election Commission of the AIG, went to Iran on March 17 as the head of a delegation sent to persuade the Shia parties to participate in elections.
     Earlier he had headed a delegation from the AIG whicha had negotiated with the Shia parties , but which made no significant progress.
     The Shia parties are busy unifying their ranks to try to get a better deal from the AIG or any other future arrangements.              *
     A three-day seminar of Shia groups opened in Tehran on March 15. The seminar stressed the need for unity among Shia groups.
     Shia parties also announced formation of a single party by the name of Wahdat-i-Islami (Islamic Unity). But later a leader of one of the parties said that the unification was in its primary stages. There are nine recognized Shia parties based in Iran. Shia parties have had problems among themselves, whiph have at times led to armed clashes.
     A spokesman of the Shia parties in Tehran rejected the claim of the Kabul regime that Najib had held talks with the representative of Nine-Party Alliance. He called the claim a subversive measure by the Kabul regime to defame die Shia Mujahideen.
                                                UN links Kabul with Mazar and Herat
    The office of Sadruddin Agha Khan has informed the Mujahideen parties that it has hired a plane which will fly between Islamabad-Kabul, Kabul-Mazar and Kabul-Herat for humanitarian missions.
    The Mujahideen are asked not shoot at the plane which bears UN marking and is flown by two Danes.
    According to the letter of Prince Sadruddin's office the plane is a Beechcraft King Air 200 which will be used for humanitarian purposes. It will be stationed in Pakistan.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1, 1990, page ©
'Buzkashi analogy' misleading about Afghan sports, politics
  Habibru Rahman
    Buzkashi , often called "Afghan polo," has become a metaphor for Afghan politics in the minds of some Western analysts.
    These analysts see buzkashi as a game without rules: every horseman in the game tries to snatch the headless calf and put it into a goal, while fighting one another, in order to win.
    Barnett Rubin, an American scholar, used this analogy recently in a hearing in the House of Representatives of the US Congress.
    This analogy is misleading. Those who use it think that buzkashi is not governed by rules and that no teamwork is involved.
    Like any other game, Buzkashi is contested between two teams. It is a rough game which needs brave players - and spectators - but it has both tactics and strategy.
    In each team, the fastest and the strongest horse, ridden by a capable horseman called achapandaz , places the calf in the goal with help from the rest of the team. The horsemen in each team block those of the opposite team's while clearing the way for their own leading rider. .
    Even in the old days,when the number of horses in each team was unlimited, or more than two teams participated in each game, buzkashi was still played in the same spirit.
                                                                                                The late Prof. Majrooh, an Afghan writer, was the first to describe Afghan politics, by analogy, as buzkashi . But Majrooh was not a rider himself. Buzkashi was not played in the part of Afghanistan where he was brought up.
 His impression of the game was that of a spectator who did not know the rules.
     If one does not know the rules of any game, it is confusing. Buzkashi, a rough game, can be even more confusing to a Westerner.
     Afghan politics has its own rules which must be understood. Afghans are living in difficult times and in a veiy confusing environment At home there are many political parties, reflecting the composition of the society. In exile - where most of the politics is being played - the situation is also complex. This situation, at home and abroad, has forced the Afghans to play their political game in a complicated way. The foreign observers who watch the game from a distance, with a readymade models in their mind, find Afghan politics confusing and sometimes frustrating. They often resort to oyer- simplification and unsuitable analogies.
     Once a Western diplomat, who had dealt with Afghan issues for several years, told an Afghan friend that Afghan politics are very sophisticated. He compared them to three-dimensional chess, a game not easy to grasp.
     Afghan experts are advised to learn the rules of buzkashi ; it is played with teamwork, strategy and tactics. They should also study three-dimensional chess in order to understand the complexities of Afghan politics.
     Afghans cannot simplify the rules of their political games in order to make them understandable to outsiders. A simplified model will provide no answers in such a complicated situation.
                            Afghan Muj ahideen honor Herat uprising of 1979
   Speakers at the meeting to commemorate the 11th anniversary of the Herat uprising against the communist regime strongly criticized Hezb-i-Islami's support for Gen. Tanai's coup, and called it an alliance with communists.
   In 1979 Herat revolted against the Khalqi government led by Noor Mohammad Taraki. In that uprising about 20,000 people were killed by the puppet regime’s army.
   In the meeting, organized by the Herat office of Jami'at Islami, Prof. Sayyaf, Maulawi Younus Khalis, Prof. Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani were the main speakers. All these leaders opposed any association of Mujahideen with any faction of the communist party. They promised to continue Jehad against the communists until an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan.
 | A wave of unsolved murders of [Soviet military officers is causing
 A§|yBigh Ommtaiid, a BritiJi defence publication has writteh;^!|: ;V:
 ■    The Soviet high commatid said|
 59 officers, from the ranks of lieutenant to general, were murdered last [year* compared with two in 1988 and only one in i|87.                 |
 ■    "Inmost cases the ;:i|^t^:||be attackerslnd the motive for the kiltJ ing remain a mystery*, the newsletter
                                                                     ***
 I Najib has told a group of triball elders that during Tarn's coup, the (Soviet Union contacted him and of-! [fered military support, the Christian]
 I Senator Gordon J. Humphrey has told VOA that neither the Reagan nor
 ted to the Afghan cause the way they |||iid have been. vj,              I
 ■                -                I
 opened the second Jehad Exhibition at Capitli Hotel in *f Islamablii; ;0n March 19. ;
 |!/:The.Vfirst Jehad Extiibiti# was tetd in Peshawar Photos, posters, paintings and other [material depicting different asp||t|| ;the Afghan struggle against the Soviet Union and the Kabul communist regime were displayed in in the
 Exhibition,                  -11111
mm
   Peshawar, Frontier Post
      The ANP leader has close ties with both Moscow and the Kabul rel
 Mujahideen, especially of Hezb Islami Hikmatyar. This is fhft Sfeei&d surprising move by Hikmatyar after his support for General Tanai, the leader of Khalq faction of PDPA. in his coup attempt against Najib. | ...                            lip
     ; A Kuwaiti relief drganiimion has^ | buih a tube well which witi pr|i^p drinking water for 15,000 new

           ~ ~ AFGHANews V0I6, No 7, April 1,1990, page ©
 Hikmatyar's support for Khalqis' line separating Mujahideen from
  By: Abdullah Mujahid
     The failed coup of Gen. Tariai, which was supported by Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar), will have far-reaching effects on both the resistance and com- -munist regime.
     The coup was an attempt by the Khalq faction of PDPA to take power. General Shah Nawaz Tanai, the Kabul regime defence minister and the head of the Khalq faction of PDPA, has been trying since the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan to take power from Kabul strongman Dr. Najibullah, who is the head of Parcham faction. To do that, Tanai wanted to have the support of some Mujahideen groups.
 Among the Mujahideen parties, Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) showed keen interest in deposing Najib through a military coup. They adopted this tactic after the Mujahideen's failure to defeat the Kabul regime in conventional warfare at Jalalabad and on other fronts.
     The coup began March 6 and was openly supported by Hezb. This support resulted in little if any practical benefit for mutineers. The life of uprising was so short that no time was left for Hezb Mujahideen to support the mutineers even if they had been in a position to do so.
     Hezb's support for the coup might even have weakened the position of rebellious soldiers. Since Hezb has a reputation for ruthlessness among the regime’s supporters, their cooperation with Tanai might have made Khalqi soldiers hesitant to support the coup.
     Just as the Hezb alliance with Tanai must have surprised members of the Khalq faction, it also surprised Mujahideen parties, ordinary Afghans and foreign observers.
     Why were they surprised?
     Hezb leadership have always displayed a revolutionary and uncompromising facade. These policies had gained the admiration of some young Afghans and some Islamic parties outside Afghanistan, from which Hezb benefitted materially and politically.
     Hezb left AIG over the issue of elections and announced that it will not support any unelected set-up ! It also supported local elections in Kunar to prove its popularity among the people.
     How is it that Hezb cannot get along with other Mujahideen parties, but can cooperate with a communist
 faction famous for its unbridled atrocities?
     Hezb played a risky game by supporting the coup, because it was confident that it would succeed. A coup launched by the defence minister of a country, thought to have the support of most of the army, should have succeeded. Success would have paved the way for power-sharing between the Khalq faction and Hezb Islami.
     Had the coup been successful, other Mujahideen parties would have been caught by surprise and would have not been able to pose an immediate threat to the Khalq-Hezb Alliance.
     Hezb also might have thought that a government formed through a successful coup would have been recognized by the outside world. Because of the involvement of a Mujahideen group, pro-Mujahideen countries would have recognized the new government, and because of presence of Khalq faction in it Soviet Union would have not opposed it
     The strong desire of supporters of the Mujahideen to see Afghan problems solved might have given Hezb the impression that they would support any move against Najib, and that other Mujahideen parties' reactions could be checked.
     A successful coup would «ot have brought peace. Most of the Mujahideen would have found the alliance unacceptable and a dangerous threat to their survival and would have opposed it. hereisrioinformationavailableabout
 The way power would have been shared between Hezb and Khalq faction, but it is clear that Tanai and his politburo friends would have not been satisfied with less 50% of power.
     In a press conference organized by Hezb in Logar, Tanai said he was still a member of Khalq and defence minister of the PDPA. Hezb spokesman who translated Tanai's press conference tried very hard make the journalists understand that there was no alliance between Hezb and Tanai, but they had "strategic cooperation".
     Hikmatyar does not call the cooperation with Tanai an alliance; he calls it Tanai's surrender to Hezb.
     Now that the coup has failed, what will be its effect on developments in Afghanistan?
     The coup widened the gap between Hezb and the other Mujahideen parties which cannot now be easily bridged. Although there were differences between Hezb' and other Mujahideen parties in the past, neither side justified the rift on religious grounds. Unfortunately the Tanai coup changed the situation. Other Mujahideen parties have denounced Hezb’s position on the basis of religion.
     The coup will have a negative effect on Hezb Islami itself. Most of the ordinary members of Hezb, especially those on the battlefields, will find cooperation with Khalqis unacceptable. Hezb members will come undo* pressure from the rival groups among the resistance. They will find it difficult defend their party position, rdinary Afghans will not believe Hezb’s slogans in favor of establishing pure Islamic government in Afghanistan, but will consider them a pretext for seizing power.
     The rift between the Mujahideen parties in Peshawar will make Shia parties less willing to join the interim government The Shia groups are trying to gain more ethnic and religious concessions from the Peshawar-based parties.
      The coup was a blow to the popularity of Jehad, both at home and abroad.The strength of Jehad was its simple nature. It was understandable to Afghans and foreigners alike. The Muslim Mujahideen were trying to overthrow the Godless communists.
     During the Soviet occupation Afghans and outsiders alike found the motives behind the fighting easily understandable, and supported the Jehad.
     After the Soviet troop withdrawal the outsiders, mainly Westerners, found it less understandable that they should support the Mujahideen against communists in Kabul, since both sides had differences with the West on political, religious and economic issues. Support for the right of self-determination was not strong enough to attach the outsiders emotionally to the cause.
     For ordinary Afghans the situation was clear. They knew the people on each side. The majority of Afghans continued to support the resistance against the communists, despite the shortcomings of the resistance. Hezb's involvement with one of the communist factions has blurred the line separating the two groups..
AFGHANews Vol6, No 7, April 1,1990, page @
  communists
    The coup will have a negative impact on the Afghan resistance's links with other Islamic movements . Hezb had gained a reputation of a revolutionary group, struggling for the supremacy of Islam, among the Islamic parties in Turkey, Gulf region, Pakistan and Malaysia. Hezb's action will make these groups suspicious about the whole resistance because most of them have little information about Afghanistan and do not differentiate between one group and the others.
    The possibility of some small army units joining the Hezb-Tanai alliance still exists, but it may riot take the form of large-scale desertions.
    Even if some army units join them, the balance of power may not change very much, because an army unit cannot act effectively in combination with guerilla fighters, especially when it is cut from supplies of ammunition and fuel and is deprived of its air cover.
    The coup also created many problems for the communist regime in Kabul. It inflicted considerable military and political damages to the Najib regime. The coup was a source of embarrassment for the Soviet leaders who claimed the PDPA was united and in control of the situation. The coup involved a considerable number of Politburo members of the PDPA.
 Najib has tried to cover the involvement of the Khalq faction in the coup, and to project it as an act of some individuals within the party. Purges in the army and the party will weaken the regime's military performance, and consume a lot of time and energy.
    It will be difficult for Najib to get rid of the problems permanently because the differences between the two factions are deep-rooted and have spread to lowest levels of the party.
     The Khalqis' desire to take revenge will ensure that the struggle for power within the PDPA will continue unabated.
     In shot, the coup of March 6 would have been a positive thing for the Mujahideen if Hezb Islami had not supported it It could have been exploited for the benefit of Jehad without creating political and ideological com plexities for the resistance.
     The Khalqi coup would have take place anyway, but Hezb's desire to seize power through a short-cut has created a new situation with unpredictable consequences.
US, Soviet experts discuss Afghan issue in Helsinki
    The US and Soviet delegations' discussion of the Afghanistan issue in Helsinki ended on March 22 with no progress.
    Every six months the two sides exchange views on Afghan issues at the technical evel.
    The US delegation was headed by Under-Secretary of State John Kelly. Peter Tomsen,. the US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, was also included in the American delegation.
    This meeting took place after recent visit of James Baker to Moscow, during which he tabled a new proposal for a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan. The next meeting of the foreign ministers of the two countries will be held in Washington in April.
    At the end of the meeting, Mr. Kelly told the reporters that the two sides now have a better understanding of each other's position.
    The Helsinki talks were held after the failed coup of March 6 against Najib. In the US view, the coup exposed the weakness of the Kabul regime and the need for its replacement by a broad-based government The Soviet Union, on the other hand, sees Najib's survival as proof of his strength.
    Before leaving to Helsinki, Tomsen told VOA that Afghanistan is a burden on the Soviet economy. He said Soviet Union provided US $ 5 billion assistance annually to the Kabul regime, four billion in military and one billion in economic assistance.
     Tomsen planned to visit West Germany, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan after the Helsinki talks.
     In Peshawar he will meet with Mujahideen leaders, including members of Shia groups. Tomsen said Shias form an important minority in Afghanistan, and that the US supports their participation in the AIG. He indirectly accused Iran of preventing the Shias from joining the AIG.
     Tomsen called the AIG a caretaker organization. He said that despite talk about broadening the base of the AIG, no practical steps were taken.
     In Germany, Tomsen may meet with some prominent Afghan emigres. Participation of Afghan emigres living in the West in any future political step is thought to be essential to give it a broad-based image.
     Pakistan Foreign Secretary Tanveer Ahmad Khan visited Moscow from 11 to 13 March to talk with his Soviet counterpart, Yuli Vorontsov about the Afghanistan issue. In a communique at the end of the visit, die two sides agreed on the need for a political solution to the problem.
     The release of Soviet prisoners of war was also one of the topics of discussion between Pakistani .and Soviet officials. About 300 Soviet servicemen are missing in Afghanistan. Some are believed to be held by the Mujahideen.
     Tanveer Ahmad Khan visited Moscow after a visit to Tehran during which he discussed Afghan issues with Iranian officials.
Ex-king asks Najib to step down
    The ex-king has turned down Najib's request for supporting his "National Reconciliation".
    Immediately after Tani's coup, Najib sent a letter to the ex-king asking his help for bring peace to Afghanistan.
    A spokesman of the ex-king rejecting the offer said that the coup showed that the regime was at the brink of collapse.
    Talking to the Italian News Agency after the coup, the ex-king called the Kabul regime illegitimate that could not play
 any role in the future administration.
    The Kabul regime spokesman told APP in Kabul that now that the hard-liners were dropped from the ruling party, the ex-king might find it easier to play a role in bringing peace.
    Mohammad Zahir Shah has been living in exile since 17 years. The ex-king was deposed by his cousin, Daud in 1973. Daud had the support of the communists in his bed against the king. Daud was killed by the communists in 1978.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 7, April 1,1990, page ©
 Masood sees Hezb deal with Khalq as harmful to Jehad
     Commander Ahmad Shah Masood recently gave two interviews to Awan Ebrahim, correspondent of the Middle East News Agency and Al-Hayat, a newspaper published in Paris and Cairo. We present the combined text of the two interviews:
     Q. Were you aware of the coup?
     A.We were aware of the coup and one month ago we published the details of the first coup attempt in our newspaper "Shoora".
     Q. What is your stand on Tanai's coup?
     A. I am opposed to the unholy alliance between Hezb and Tanai and consider it harmful to Islam and Afghanistan.
     Q. What will be the short-term and long-term consequences of the late coup?
     A. As a result of the coup, Najib lost some of the political credibility that he had gained; and militarily, he became weaker. Najib has to purge pro-Tanai people from the army and other organizations. This will weaken the regime further.
     Hezb's alliance with the Khalq faction inflicted hehvy damage to the Islamic image of Hezb (Hikmatyar). Most of the people now believe that the aim of Mr. Hikmatyar is to reach power by any means, not the formation of an Islamic government
     Hezb Islami will be isolated in Afghanistan and will lose the support of other Islamic movements. There is a strong possibility that Hezb will face internal divisions. .
     Q. Will your fight against both the Khalqis and Parchamis not unite them?
     A. Ideologically both the Khalq and Parcham factions are communist. Both factions have committed many crimes and one can not be chosen over the other. The recent coup was. the action of a group of Khalqis under Tanai. Watanjar and Pakteen, the two other famous-Khalqi leaders, are Najib's defence and interior ministers, and their cooperation with Najib continues as in the past
     Q. If Najib becomes weak will you
 support him (Tanai)?
     A. We were opposed to Najib and are opposed to him (Tanai). Our opposition to him will continue until Najib and the communist regime are ousted and an Islamic government is established.
     Q. Do you think that the recent coup has weakened Dr. Najib?
     A. Yes. The recent coup has weakened Najib politically and militarily.
     Q. Do you forsee another coup attempt by Tanai people?
     A. As far as I know, the pro-Tanai forces have been weakened. There is little possibility of a new attempt by them.
     Q. Can' the officials of the Kabul regime participate in the future government of the Mujahideen?
     A. There are different types of people within the regime.We are opposed to those who are not Muslims and have people's blood on their hands. The rest can participate in the government.
     Q. Is it possible for you to solve your differences with Hikmatyar?
     A. In the past we have tried to solve our differences with Hikmatyar through negotiations. Unfortunately our approach was not reciprocated. But now that Hezb Islami and the Khalq faction undo- Tanai have made an unholy alliance, the situation has changed. As long as this unholy alliance exists we will not deal with Hikmatyar.
     Q. Some people say you want to establish a government controlled by Tajiks. Is it true?
     A. This is part of the enemy propaganda designed to mislead the Muslim people in other parts of Afghanistan and outside it. We reject favoring one group over others, in all forms. Our aim is the formation of an Islamic government.
     Q. You have not launched any big operations for a long time. How long
 Turn to page (2 )
                               March 27,1990
      mi
  Area/Tem. in C°    H    L
  Kabul              10    9
            _ Rain 4 mm
  North Salang       -3   --I0
                                                        rain 13mm , snow 160 cm
  Jabulseraj         13    4
                                                               rain 1mm*
  Chekhcharan        6    -5
  Shebirghan         19   7
                                                              Mazar-i-Sharif
  Lashkargah
 20  7
 21  7
  Herat                16   5
  Jalalabad            22   13
  Faizabad             13   5
     PfeCp us puBCisfi
     WgMMfaasI
                                        TCease send your donations to the fottcnoing account number:
          JT2&VD Account Ofp. 735-37 CHaBiS ‘BanJ^Ltd.
                                           ‘Te.fdtaC BaCa, Peshawar (Pakistan
Vol 6, No 8                                              April 15,1990
setback in Herat
   In a spectacular operation the Mujahideen from Jami'at killed the Deputy Minister of WAD (State Security), the Police Commander of Herat, three militia commanders and several other ranking regime military and civilian officers on April 6. The Governor of Herat and several other officers were seriously injured. Four Mujahideen were martyred in the operation, which lasted 15 minutes. For details turn to page (2)
United Nations to send Afghan refugees home
                                             Kabul admits war destruction
    The Kabul regime has told the UN that 60 percent of dwellings in the countryside and 20 percent of those in the cities have been destroyed in the war. The regime has also estimated the number of refugees in the neighboring countries at five million, 4.17 million of whom come from the countryside.
    The Najibullah regime has given the UN a paper detailing the destruction of houses. A copy of the document has been given to the Mujahideen by their contacts in the regime.
    According to the paper, 20 percent of the houses in rural areas and 10 percent of the houses in the cities need to be repaired.
     The paper says that 53 percent of all houses in the country have been destroyed, and that 18 percent need to be repaired.
    This is the first time that the regime has admitted that five million Afghans have become refugees outside their country and that about 70 percent of the country's dwellings were destroyed during the Soviet occupation.
    The great destruction in the countryside shows how the Soviet Union bombed and destroyed the areas controlled by the resistance. Twenty percent of the destruction in die cities was in the Outskirts controlled by the resistance.
    Mujahideen sources have estimated that 75 percent of the houses in Afghanistan have been destroyed, which is close to the figure provided by the Kabul regime.
    Hopes for UN assistance have forced Najib to admit the great destruction and uprooting of the population brought about by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
     The UN is planning for a partial return of Afghan refugees from Pakistan and Iran during the coming summer.
     In a press conference held in Islamabad, Prince Sadruddin, the UN Coordinator for Afghanistan, told the reporters that the refugees will return to the "zones of peace and tranquility".
     He said the refugees were tired, frustrated and homesick. The UN will help to make them able to return to their country, he added.
     In the press cbnference the director of World Food Program and die UN High Commissioner for Refugees were also present.
     Prince Sadruddin claimed that in about two-thirds of Afghanistan the situation has returned to normal. He named Kunar, Badakhshan, Nimroz, Herat, Badghis and Hazarajat as zones of tranquility.
     The UN coordinator said that the return of refugees must be voluntary. He said UN will make sure nobody is forced to return or prevented from returning.
     He argued that reconstruction work in Afghanistan should not wait for a political settlement.
     He made an edged comment about Afghans, saying they either were in war
 with foreigners or among themselves. This comment reminded Afghans of a similar comment by Ismailia militia commander Sayed Mansoor, who told a British camera team the same thing.
     Prince Sadruddin claimed that 200 projects of Operation Salam are at work in 29 provinces. He also claimed that his men freely cross the line separating the regime from the Mujahideen to deal with both sides.
     Prince Sadruddin and his entourage spent eight days in Pakistan, during which he discussed his plans with Pakistani officials including President Ghulam Ishaq Khan and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. Pakistani officials' response to the UN plans have been positive.
     He also met the leader of the AIG and Hezb Islami leader Gulbuddin Hikmatyar. Prof. Mujaddidi's initial reaction to the plan was positive. He said if Kabul regime did not bomb the areas where the returning refugees are settled, most of the refugees will go.
     Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of AIG, opposed the idea and said refugees will return only when the communist regime in Kabul is removed from
                                                           Turn to page (8)
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
    Herat Province
    Jami'at Mujahideen killed a great many enemy soldiers and officers, including two regime generals, and wounded the governor of Herat on April 6 in Pustoon Zarghoon District The two generals were Jalal Razminda, the deputy minister of WAD (the Ministry of State Security), and Sarab Mandozai, the Herat provincial police commander. Fazulhaq Khaliqyar, the governor of Herat ,was seriously injured.
    According to Radio Kabul, three of the four militia commanders who were supposed to defect to the regime woe also killed.
    The incident took place at a gathering in which some mujahideen groups were supposed to lay down arms in front of foreign journalists and diplomats.
    When Fazlulhaq Khaliqyar embraced the first militia commander he was shot In IS minutes of gunfire, 80 people were killed or wounded.
    Having learned of the planned defection, a group of Mujahideen infiltrated the gathering under the pretxt of joining the defectors. When the ceremony began they attacked the communists and their militia friends.
    The Kabul regime wanted to make a media event out the ceremony held in Pushtbon Zarghoon. Foreign journalists and diplomats from communist countries were flown to Herat from Kabul to watch the ceremony.
    Mujahideen sources say that four of the attackers were also martyred in the fighting.
    According to the Mujahideen reports, regime forces have started firing rockets indiscriminately into Mujahideen-controUed areas of Herat
    The news of the Herat attack was received with pleasure by Afghan refugees in Pakistan.
    The loss of so many high ranking officers is a serious setback for the re-
gime and a great failure for its national reconciliation program.
    The incident in Herat happened one month after the Tanai coup attempt, in which a large number of regime officers were also killed.
Badakhshan Province
    Jami'at Mujahideen captured an enemy security post in Faizabad on March 23.
    Thirty soldiers were captured and the following weapons were seized from the post:
    20 Kalashnikov rifles
    3 PK machine-guns
    2RPG-7 rocket launchers
    1R-107 radio set
    40 boxes of ammunition
    The area around Faizabad, the provincial capital, is controlled by Abdul Basir Khalid, a well-known Jami'at commander.
 Samangan Province
    One hundred armed militiamen in Dehfil village of Khulm district surrendered to Jami'at Mujahideen chi April 2, Hundu Kush News Agency reported.
    Paktia Province
    The Mujahideen are preventing enemy transport planes from landing in Khost airport, forcing the regime to parachute supplies to its besieged garrison.
    The Mujahideen control Tora Ghara ridge, about 9 kilometers from the air field, from which they fire mortars and rockets at landing aircraft. The wreckage of at least five enemy transport planes can be seen near the airport
    Khost, a town about 30 kilometers from the Pakistan border, has been besieged by the Mujahideen fra1 two years.
                                                 Logar Province
    Regime warplanes heavily bombed Kunjak and Niazy villages in Logar, destroying 100 houses, on April 1. The residence of die mention villages have been displaced to odier areas in the province.
    The next day, six heavy rockets ( possibly Scud missiles) woe fired by die enemy into die same villages, destroying cnie restaurant and 11 trucks.
                                               Soviet IL-76 plane crashes in Kabul
    A Soviet transport plane bringing supplies to the Kabul regime crashed near Kabul airport on March 27.
    Confirming the crash, Soviet sources claimed'that the Ilyushin-76 Aeroflot aircraft was carrying non-military supplies.The, Soviet Union sends both military and non-military supplies by air to Kabul. Ilyushin-76 planes can carry up to 40 tons of goods.
    It is thought that the Mujahideen shot down the plane. The nine crewmen of the plane woe all reported dead. Meanwhile, the Kabul regime has said that it has started a security campaign south of Kabul. The fighting started few days after the Soviet transport plane's crash south of the airport
    The Soviet ambassador to Kabul had earlier warned the Mujahideen against any attempt to shoot down Soviet transport planes bringing supplies to Kabul.
                                             USSR sends regime more SCUD missiles
    The Soviet Union has sent more SCUD missiles to Kabul recently to help government troops resist Mujahideen attacks in at least three eastern frontier provinces, military sources said in Kabul.
    A regime spokesman said that "if Mujahideen guerillas attack civilian targets, we will fire SCUDs and other heavy rockets."
    SCUDs woe first deployed in Afghanistan in October 1988, before the Soviet army withdrew from the country , and have been used in the east and south.
    At least eight of the giant missiles, carrying warheads weighing up to one ton, were brought to the Afghan capital in large convoys escorted by tanks, and will be prepared for launching.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Com. Masood Kunduzi
     Masood, son of Haji Gul Murad, was bom in Sujan village of Chardara District, Kunduz Province, 29 years ago.
     Masood went to Bybacha Primary School in his hometown at the age of seven, but later moved to Sher Khan High School in Kunduz. After completing ninth grade there, he entered Madrasa-i-Takharistan (a religious school run by government) in the same city and completed it with good grades.
     In Takharistan, he came in contact with the members of the Islamic movement. Upon the communist coup of 1978, he decided to take part in anti-government activities along with other members of the movement
     The need for arms forced him to come to Pakistan in 1979. Masood received three months of military training in a Jami'at training camp in Pakistan’s tribal areas. He started his journey back to Chardara with a few guns and some cakes of explosives to resist the communist regime.
     On the way to Kunduz he passed through Panjshir where he met with Commander Masood, who impressed him. Upon returning to the area, he started to plant improvised mines on the roads used by the communist forces. The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan made him more determined to fight against the invaders. His mines destroyed several regime aiid Soviet tanks and trucks.
    f He used to mine the Mazar-Kunduz road, which was extensively used by enemy military convoys bringing supplies from Hairatan Port to the Soviet base at Kunduz airport Whenever the Mujahideen attacked the enemy forces, the enemy
                                              Prof. Sayyaf rejects drug allegations
    The AIG has strongly rejected the allegations of the Kabul regime that the Mujahideen have been involved in drug dealing. •
    Sometime ago the representative of the Kabul regime in the UN accused the Mujahideen of drug dealing.
    Prof. Sayyaf, the prime minister of the AIG told MIDLA that the Mujahideen were opposed to the use, storage and production of narcotics. "Anything fatal and damaging to human dignity and honor shall be opposed by us," he said.
 bombed the villages controlled by the resistance. In one such aerial bombing, Masood's house was hit and his uncle and cousin were killed.
     Chardara, about 10 kilometers from Kunduz City, has been a target of several large-scale Soviet offensives. On April 1985, Russian troops surrounded Gortapa and Chardara. The Mujahideen resisted fiercely. In the two areas more than 230 people, mostly civilians, were martyred and more than 300 were wounded.
     In February 1984, Chardara was the scene of a horrible massacre by the Soviet troops. A Soviet officer was captured by the Mujahideen. The Soviet troops launched an attack to rescue their officer and when failed, they massacred about 400 ordinary people of Chardara. Because of these attacks many people from Kunduz moved to safer areas controlled by the Mujahideen, or became refugees in Pakistan.
     Masood has kept in close contact with Supervisory Council, headed by Ahmad Shah Masood. Some of his Mujahideen have been trained in the Council's training centers.
     Masood is a commander of 350 Mujahideen who operate in Kunduz City. He has taken part in numerous operations, large and small, including the one which led to Kunduz* brief libera tion in summer of 1988.
     Masood was one of the command ers who participated in the historic meeting of Jami'at commanders in Farkhar last summer. He was capture by Sayed Jamal's men along with other Jami'at commanders, but he was released with some other commanders from Kunduz. Those who were killec were from Takhar Province.
                      AFGHAN
                      PROVERBS
    .......
 He ran out from under a leaking roof and sat in the rain.
 Meaning: Out of the frying pan into the fire.
          0jyA tfJuiL ij wl a        (J W J * 1 J
 Without investigating the water, don't take off your shoes (to walk through it).
 Meaning: "Look before you leap.”
  UM I Jmf UMm2uI
           • ImIiIiW JU ^11
 Five!fingers are brothers but are not equals.             K
 Meaning: Although people may be related by family or nationality each person nevertheless is different
         AJ& Ca           4J
  •                             J
 Don't dig wells for others for you will fall into one yourself.
 Meaning: Evil begets evil.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
                                                              Jami'at disapproves of creation of 'peace and tranquility zones'
     UN has announced a program of voluntary return of Afghan refugees from Iran and Pakistan to 'peace zones' in Afghanistan beginning from coming summer. The UN program does not consider formation of a representative government in Kabul necessary for the repatriation of the refugees.
     The program is Sased on the assumption that in two third of Afghan territory war has ended and the refugees can return to the areas where hostilities have ceased. According to the program the two sides in the conflict, the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, should not take any military action in 'peace and tranquility zones'.
     In order to get the support of the neighboring countries. Mujahideen and the Kabul regime, the UN Coordinator for Afghanistan, Prince Sadruddin visited the areas and discussed his plans with them.
     The return of refugees to their home is a natural desire common among all of them. But, the cause of displacement must be eliminated to enable the refugees to return in safety and honor.
     War was the cause of displacement of refugees. Afghans raised against the communist regime in Kabul. When the Soviet invaded the war intensified and more refugees left their homes. After the Soviet troops left, the war did not end and as long as the Kabul regime is in power fighting will continue.
     Afghan resistance is determined to continue fighting against the regime and Najibullah is not ready to hand over power to a broad-based government. The two sides are either fighting or preparing to fight. Low level of military activities in some areas should not be interpreted as a sign of returning peace.
     The present stalemate situation in the battlefield will not last long. One side or the other must go to the offensive soon. The near future speaks of more fighting rather than return of peace. Under these circumstances how can the refugees return and feel safe? How can the UN provide them security and create conditions that they are not forced to become refugees again?
     The idea of /peace zones' originates from the Russians and the Kabul regime. This plan was rejected by the Mujahideen. The adoption of the program by the UN will not make it acceptable to the resistance. The Mujahideen cannot accept the plan because it requires a sort of cease-fire and understanding between the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime.
     The UN had told in the past that it will deal with the humanitarian and political aspects of the Afghan problem separately. But in the new proposal the humanitarian means are used to force the resistance to compromise with the Kabul regime and go ahead with its program of 'national reconciliation’.
     Although the UN says that the repatriation of refugees will be voluntary, decrease in provisions for the refugees and false propaganda about normalization of the situation are the economic and psychological means employed to promote Agha Khan's plans for repatriation of refugees.
     The way that the UN deals with the two sides of the conflict-the Mujahideen and the Kabul regime-is also objectionable.
     The UN is not treating the two sides in the conflict equally. UN programs in Afghanistan are not properly discussed with the Mujahideen leaders. If there is any meeting between the UN official and the resistance leaders, it has a ceremonial significance. Afghan leaders are informed about the UN work through letters send by the UN officers after the work has done or through the media. This discriminatory behavior puts the natural position of the UN to question.
     In dealing with the Mujahideen, the UN assumes that if the neighboring countries agree with a plan the resistance forces has no choice but to accept it.
       _____________________Turn  to page (6 )____________'
Seminar discusses social changes in Afghanistan
By: John Jennings
      A seminar honoring the memory of Afghanistan scholar Louis Dupree took place at the University of Peshawar’s Central Asian Studies Centre on March 20 and 21. Scholars, journalists and officials from Afghanistan, Pakistan and the west met publicly in a series of panel talks on changes in Afghan society resulting from more than a decade of invasion and resistance.
      Participants in the conference, arranged by the Writers' Union of Free Afghanistan, were split about equally among Afghans, Pakistanis and west-oners. Dr. Nancy Dupree, Louis’ widow and an Afghan specialist herself who now directs the Afghan Resource Information Centre in Peshawar, was also among the organisers and honored guests.
      Professor Isobelle Hemming, of the University of California at Los Angeles, said the seminar had produced a lively exchange of opinions. "Most important of all, it was the kind of gathering Louis would have enjoyed There really was a wide variety of views presented"
      On the first day of the seminar, the panels, of about a half-dozen specialists apiece, discussed issues of refugee resettlement in Afghanistan's varied geographic regions; political leadership pattens past and present; and the geopolitical implications of Afghan affairs.
      On the second day, panels discussed how to approach die study of changes in Afghan culture and society; the preservation of Afghanistan’s artistic and archaeological heritage; rebuilding a "services infrastructure" for medi- i cal and other public needs; and the impact of foreign aid on* Afghan society.
      The tone of the discussions, and the scholars' viewpoints, were generally secular. On the second day, however, Professor Nazif Shahrani, an Afghan who teaches anthropology at UCLA, made a forceful case for the role of revolutionary Islam in charting Afghanistan's course.
      His remarks produced scowls and grumbles from some observers and participants. At least one distinctly nonreligious western participant, on the other hand, commented that such views are impossible to dismiss in any realistic discussion of the forces likely to determine Afghanistan's future.
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
Comment bv:
Habibur Rahman
Afghanistan is not Nicaragua
     An APN article , published in Pakistan Times on April 6, on the occasion the 2nd anniversary of signing the Geneva Accords raises many interesting point which need to be discussed. The article expresses the views of the Soviet Government
     The article argues that Kabul regime is a reality and that no political solution can be achieved without including it in the process.
     No doubt the Kabul regime is still in power, and has survived fcx* a year since the Soviet troop withdrawal. This does not change the fact that the present regime was brought to power by the Red Army.
     Before the Soviet invasion Najib and his predecessor, Babrak Karmal, lived in exile. They came to Kabul after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in December 1979. The Soviets tried to impose these men on the people of Afghanistan but could not do it If Najib and his party are allowed to take part in the future politics of Afghanistan, to what purpose did one million people die in the war against the communists?
     The majority of Afghans do not want Najib and his party. He must be tried for all the crimes he has committed in collaboration with his Soviet masters.
     Kvery reality is not necessarily acceptable. The Soviet invasion of 1979 was a reality but Afghans resisted it, and finally drove the Soviets out
     The second point the paper raises is the positive development of free, fair elections in Namibia and Nicaragua, which could provide an example to help solve the Afghan problem. But the Afghan situation is comparable neither to Nicaragua's nor Namibia's,
     Daniel Ortega did not come to power through a superpower invasion
 the way Najib did. He is not responsible for killing one million of his own people, as Najib is. Ortega controlled most of the country, while Najib controls only a fraction of Afghanistan. Therefore, the Nicaraguan analogy does not hold in Afghanistan.
     The third point about the article is that it gives the impression that the Soviet Union wishes all Afghans well and is concerned about the rights of Afghan citizens on both sides of the conflict.
     In reality the Soviet Union is still busy killing Afghans by providing massive quantities of sophisticated weapons to the Kabul regime. Its advisors are helping the puppet army in the war against the resistance and occasionally Soviet warplanes and artillery engage in cross-border operations against the Mujahideen.
     The Soviet Union is responsible for every drop of blood that has been shed in Afghanistan, because Soviet involvement, both indirect and direct, ruined Afghanistan's existing political system and brought about the present instability.
     In the Taif talks, Yuli Vorontsov, the head of the Soviet delegation, told Mujahideen leaders that he was ready to mediate between the Mujahideen and Najibullah to end the hostility between the two. Prof. Rabbani, the leader of the Mujahideen delegation, told him he could not play the role of a peace broker because he was representing a country which had occupied Afghanistan. "We look upon you as an enemy and there is no question of your acting as a mediator, " Prof. Rabbani said.
     Vorontsov was told that the resistance is not ready to deal the communists in Kabul and that there was no need for mediation.
 No french ready to serve in Kabul
    A shortage of volunteers willing to work in Kabul has postponed the reopening of French Embassy in the Afghan capital
    Some time ago, the French president decided to reopen his country's embassy in Kabul, but it has not happened yet
    Informed sources say the French government has asked for volunteer diplomats to go to Kabul, but so far nobody has applied for the job.
    Gen. Tanai's March 6 coup attempt has made the chances of finding a volunteer to work in Kabul even slimmer.
     It is said that the reason the French decided to re-open their embassy was in order to signal Gorbachev that if he behaved nicely in Europe, France would not create problems for him elsewhere.
     The decision angered French voluntary organizations supporting war-affected Afghans. To calm them, the French government rescinded a previous plan to cut government funds to these organization by SO percent
SboitNi
AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ®
            UN Secretary General ends mandate of UNGOMAP
     Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar informed the Security Council March 14 that the mandate of the UN Good Offices Mission in Afghanistan and Pakistan (UNGOMAP) will not be continued, but that he intends to keep a few officers and staff to help with other UN responsibilities in Afghanistan.
     He said that his consultations with the signatories of the Geneva Accords "indicate that another extension of the existing arrangements would not meet with the necessary consensus" on what UNGOMAP's continued role would be.
     UNGOMAP, which consists of about 40 officers from other UN peacekeeping and observer missions around the world, was created under the Geneva Accords to monitor the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan. Pakistan and Afghanistan
 signed the Accords, with the United States and the Soviet Union acting as guarantors.
     US officials said March 14 that the United States believed that the mandate of UNGOMAP itself was to monitor the Soviet troop withdrawal, and with that completed, no consensus could be reached on a future role.
     Perez de Cuellar told the council that he intends to redeploy a limited number of the military officers from UNGOMAP as military advisers to Banon Sevan, his personal representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan, to assist in the implementation of other responsibilities related to Afghanistan.
     UNGOMAP has been deployed in Afghanistan and Pakistan for 20 months.
 This way of thinking might be true about some issues concerning the external aspects of the problem but the rehabilitation of refugees is an internal problem connected to security situation. Without the Mujahideen's agreement nothing will work.
     Jami'at will oppose any plan which lead to any sort of deal with the Kabul regime and requires cease-fire of any kind with it
     Jami'at has tried to prevent large scale immigration out of Afghanistan. It has reconstruction and rehabilitation program for the refugees in the areas it controls. Jami'at believes that provision of assistance to the concerned organization of the Mujahideen and help in reconstruction of the liberated areas will urge more refugees to return. The return of the refugees in mass is possible only after a truly Islamic representative government is established in Afghanistan.
  'Turkistan Today' starts publication
     Emigres from Central Asian republics have started to publish a news bulletin giving information about the struggle of people in that area for achievement of cultural, economic and religious rights.
     "Turkistan Today" is edited by Timur Kocaoglu, and published in West Germany in English and Turkistani languages.
     Following is the address of the paper
     Dr. Timur Kocaoglu,
     Horwarth Str. 37,
     8 Munchen 40,
     West Germany.
     Turkic-speaking republics of Central Asia have waged a struggle for cultural, economic and religious freedoms. The movement is a natural reaction to seven decades of oppressive rule by the communists.
     Moscow is wearied about the Islamic awakening in Central Asia and Azerbaijan, as was demonstrated by its decision to use the Red Army against the people in Baku and Dushanbe.
            Glasnost has made KGB stronger than before
     The number of those avoiding being drafted into the Soviet army has increased eightfold in recent years, creating a source of worry for the Soviet Army.
     An article published in 'Pravda' says that in 1989, the number of young men who refused to be. drafted jumped to 6647 while in 1985 the figure was 837.
     Growing nationalism among different republics may be the cause of this development
     The Soviet army's image was dented because of its failed decade-long involvement in Afghanistan. The army has become unpopular at home. Soviet veterans of the war in Afghanistan are suffering from many psychological and physical scars. Some of them have even returned their medals and certificates of good performance to the Soviet authorities.
     The communist party has suffered a great deal as well. Defections from the party and fragmentation along ethnic lines have drastically reduced its power.
     The only organization which has remained intact is the KGB, the Soviet secret police, which has not been so seriously affected by the recent changes and polarization in the Soviet Union;
     Experts believe that after the Soviets lose control of Eastern Europe, the KGB will have more time and resources to concentrate on domestic af-
fairs. It will refine its techniques, and remain the sole guardian of the communist dictatorship.
                                                  Iran joins space race
    The Soviet Union and the Islamic Republic of Iran are studying the possibilities of sending an Iranian astronaut into space on a Soviet space ship, Iranian news agency (IRNA) has reported. The issue was reviewed at the 12th Iran-Soviet joint economic commission.
    The Soviet Union uses joint space missions as a favor towards friendly nations. So far, French, Czech, Syrian and Afghan astronauts have participated in joint missions with Soviet cosmonauts. When the Kabul regime astronaut was sent on board a Soviet ship, most people assumed that it was a propaganda ploy to impress Afghan communists and to deceive world public opinion about the situation in Afghanistan.
    Some time ago a Saudi cosmonaut was sent into space on an American space ship. It is interesting that superpower rivalries create opportunities for third-world astronauts to enjoy space flights.
    The news indicates closer ties between Moscow and Tehran, which grow day by day.
“  :             AFGHANews Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page @
What does Jehad mean?
     Islam shuns the use of current vocabulary and adopts a terminology of its own revolutionary ideals that may lDe distinguished from common ideals. The word Jehad belongs to this particular terminology of Islam. Islam purposely rejected the word harb and other Arabic words bearing the same meaning of 'war' and used the word Jehad which is synonymous with 'struggle', though more forceful and wider in connotation. The nearest correct meaning of the word Jehad in English can be expressed as: To exert one's utmost endeavor in promoting a cause.
     To change the outlook of the people and initiate a mental revolution among them through speech or writing is a form of Jehad. To alter the old tyrannical social system and establish a new just order of life by the power of sword is also Jehad and to expend goods and exert physically for this cause is Jehad too. The pen is as much a weapon of Jehad as is the rifle.
     But the Jehad of Islam is not merely a struggle; it is a 'struggle in the cause of Allah' an essential condition in Islam. People have been misled into believing that Jehad in the way of Allah enjoining forcible conversion of other people to the faith of Islam. However, nothing could be further from the truth. All such work as is un-
    Eastern bloc countries are turning to hard currency in their trade with the Kabul regime, said the Washington Post.
    Freed from Soviet strong-arming, a number of the east-bloc countries are rapidly abandoning barter with Afghanistan, Conducted with "clearing dollars" from Kabul; they are turning instead to hard-currency trade, or "free" dollars.
    "We were pressured before to trade goods in Afghanistan in exchange for -well. I'm not quite sure what," said one east-bloc envoy, who described the so-called clearing dollars as "funny money."
    A Czech diplomat said that his country’s trade with Afghanistan used to be 40 percent hard currency and 60 percent barter, but "in the last two years, those figures- have reversed themselves."
    Aalysts said that trend is expected
 dertaken for the collective well-])eing of mankind and in which the functionary has no vested interest in the present world, his sole interest being to win the favour of Allah, is regarded in Islam as an 'act in the way of Allah'.
      The understanding of the concept of 'for the sake of Allah’ is explicitly explained .by the Prophet when he said; "Actions are but by intention and every man shall have that which he intended. Thus he who made Hijra for the sake of Allah and His Prophet, his migration was for Allah and the Prophet; and he who made Hijra to achieve some worldly "benefit or to take some woman in marriage, his migration was for that which he migrated for".
      The fact remains that Islam is the religion of peace in the fullest sense of the term; that unjust war was neveram-ongst its teachings; that aggression was never in. its tenets or tolerated by it; that force was never employed to impose it on anyone; that the expansion of Islam was never due to compulsion or oppression.
      Courtesy: Bulletin of Forum for Social Studies.
 to accelerate with the anticipated linking of East Germany's economy to that of the West.
     As a result, the govern-ment of President Najibullah is aggressively / Ni j courting new business, of-        J
  feting such attractive deals as tax-free corporate status and allowing full retained earnings for minimal investments.
    Work for refugees
     The Ministry j of Mines and Industries of the AIG has opened a blanket- weaving factory in Peshawar to provide work for refugees.
     According to an official of . that ministry, the factory will produce more than 20,000 blankets annually.
     The official added that the minis-
         i
  try has plan to establish other small factories to provide work for refugees.
 Jami'at leader returns from trip to Turkey
    Prof. Rabbani has returned from a short trip to Turkey at the invitation of that country's Refa party.
    During his stay, he addressed gatherings in Istanbul, Ankara and Chorom. A large number of Turks attended these gatherings. Prof. Rabbani informed them about the situation in Afghanistan.
    He also addressed a gathering of Afghan refugees in Istanbul.
    Refa is an Islamic party struggling for introduction of Islamic laws through democratic means. Najmuddin Arbakan, the leader of the party, once served as deputy prime minister of Turkey.
    Prof. Rabbani discussed the Afghan issue and the situation in Central Asia with Refa leaders. Muslims there are struggling for more religious freedom. Several thousand Afghan refugees also live in Turkey. Most of them are Turkic-speaking people displaced from Wakhan Corridor in Badakhshan.
    The Afghan cause is popular in Turkey because of religious and ethnic ties between the two nations.
    There are several million Turkicspeaking people living in northern Afghanistan. *
                                                                                                Nationalist leader killed in Peshawar
    Doctor Sadat Shigawal, leader of Afghan Millat of Afghanistan, a nationalist party, was killed by unidentified assassins in Shaheen Town, Peshawar on March 27.
    Dr. Sadat was the director of the Afghan Aid Association, a relief organization, and a member off Afghan Doctors Unity.
    A member of the Afghan Millat told the BBC that the killing was politically motivated, but did not specify which group might be responsible for the murder.
    Afghan Millat (Afghan Nation) was active in the university and in government offices during the time ol King Zahir Shah. Later it split between moderates and radicals. The radicals promoted a leftist revolution and became known as Millat, after the name of the newspaper they published.
    Most of die moderate followers o\' Afghan Millat in the schools and university joined the Islamic movement when it began its activities.
East Europe asks Najib to pay hard cash for goods he wants
 N
AFGHANcws Vol 6, No 8, April 15,1990, page ©
From Mujahideen press inside Afghanistan
                Famine threatens people in northern provinces
      Famine threatens the life of hundreds of thousands of people in the northern provinces of Afghanistan, stated an article in the latest issue of 'Shoora'newspaper.
      Due to war, lack of rainfall, locusts and sunn-pest beetles, farm production in Badakhshan, Takhar, Kunduz, Samangan, Bamyan, Jawzjan, Badghis and Faryab provinces was very low last year, said "Shoora." The people in these provinces are facing severe food shortages.
      The shortages in Badghis, Faryab and Badakhshan provinces are particularly acute, the paper adds. In Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, one seer (seven kilograms) of wheat cost 2000 Afs, while in the outlying districts it costs 3000 Afs. This price is four times higher than in previous years.
      The paper added that a large number of people are leaving the country and moving towards the city in search of food. Cold weather, roadblocks and food transportation problems created by regime militiamen have exacerbated the problem.
      The paper stressed the need for urgent international assistance for the people in the affected areas, and asked
     Mohammad Nasim Akhundzada, an important Mujahideen commander, and four of his companions were killed in an ambush outside Peshawar on March 25.
     He ‘was Harakat Inqilab Islami (Mohammadi party) chief commander in Helmand province.
      He was on his way to a refugee camp when four gunmen opened fire on his jeep on Cherat Road, about 30 kilometers outside Peshawar.    1
     Two of his txxlyguards and two other commanders who were travelling with him were also killed while one person sustained injuries and another escaped unhurt
     The body of Nasim Akhundzada was flown to Quetta to be taken to Musa Qala District in Helmand for burial.
     According to Harakat sources one of the culprits was captured and he was transferred to Helmand for
 Mujahideen parties to give all possible help to famine-stricken people.
     In addition to food, there is need for anti-pest chemicals to save the current year's crop. A timely rainfall would raise hopes for a good harvest.
     The paper also asked those people who have stored foodstuffs to give food to the needy to save them from starvation. Feeding the hungry is the religious duty of every Muslim, the paper concluded. .
     In another article, 'Shoora' wrote that Supervisory Council made good use of the past Afghan calendar-year to organise and train its army, launch limited attacks, rehabilitate internal refugees and rebuild mosques, houses and office buildings all over .the territory controlled by the Council.
     The paper said that unfortunately, international assistance to the Miijahideen, both military and nonmilitary, has decreased, while Soviet assistance to the Kabul regime has increased.
     'Shoora' is fortnightly paper published in Warsach, Takhar province, Afghanistan, by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council.
 interrogation .
     Mawlawi Nabi Mohammadi told reporters that Mohammad Rasool Akhundzada, Nasim. Akhundzada's brother, has been appointed the commander of Harakat in Helmand. He called the death of commander Akhundzada a great loss to all Mujahideen.
     Nasim Akhundzada started Jehad under Taraki's regime, and has been fighting against the Soviets and the puppet regime since then.
     The Western media took the opportunity to repeat their accusation of Akhundzada's involvement in growing poppy in the areas he controlled.
     Harakat sources have said that he was keen to eliminate cultivation of poppy.
     It is said that Nasim Akhundzada commanded about 10,000 Mujahideen in Helmand and neighboring provinces.
                                          refugees sent home by UN
   | From page (1)         |
power. The prince also met with some Afghan intellectuals.
    Prince Sadruddin and his friends flew for a one-day tour to Kabul during which he talked to Najib, Walril and Sultan Ali Keshtmand.
    Pakistani authorities have complained that support for the Afghan refugees has decreased. Peter Tomsen, US special envoy to the Afghan resistance, gave cautious support to the program. But he expressed concern about the safety of the returning refugees, who might be attacked by the Kabul regime.
    Prince Sadruddin flew to Tehran for similar talks with Iranian officials and leaders of Shia groups.
                                          One-day safaris to " Tranquility Zones"
    Despite UN tlaims that the security situation in Afghanistan has improved, its delegations refuse to stay overnight in Kabul. They plan their visits so that by evening they are out of the Afghan capital.
    Mr. Cordovez, former UN General Secretary's Special Envoy ,to Afghanistan, took one-day trips to Kabul when he was in charge, and the present UN representative, Benon Sevan, does the same. Prince Sadruddin's recent trip to Kabul was also a one-day tour to discuss his proposal for creation of "Peace and Tranquility Zones” with the rulers of Kabul.
                                              fHeCp us pubtish Jl?QlHfyh(ezvs!
  TUostsend your donations to the following account number:
      Account 9{p. 735-37 Mabib ‘Bank.Ltd.
     ‘Tefkat ‘BaCa, Teshazvar ‘Fafastan
     ■
Mujahideen commander murdered in Peshawar
 )