Vol 8, No3
February 1,1992
Iran sends relief goods to Kabul
     Iran surprised the Mujahideen by sending relief goods directly to Kabul. Two plane-loads of food and warm clothes were flown to Kabul on January 9 for distribution among the needy people through mosques.
     An Iranian diplomat in Kabul said that the mission was "purely humanitarian" and the criticism by the Mujahideen will not force Iran to stop it
     Sending food to Kabul is seen by the Mujahideen as a sign of growing ties between Kabul and Teheran. AFP, quoting informed sources in Kabul, said the Kabul regime is discussing purchase of petrol from Iran. Kabul is facing acute shortage of petrol. Kabul is also studying the possibility of buying Iranian buses for the city transportation.
     Trade delegations are exchanged regularly between Kabul and Tehran and Iranian investors are studying the possibility of investment in Afghanistan.
     The Mujahideen have reported that a delegation of the Kabul regime has visited Iran recently. The Dean of Herat University, the Director of Education of Herat and the Secretary of Watan party of Herat were included in the delegation.
     Iran had earlier sent two transport planes of food and clothes to the refugees in Pakistan.
     Iran airlifted food to Bamyan in November. Iranian officials said the airlift was designed to prevent replacement of people who are facing shortages of food. This operation which took place with the consent of the regime provoked different reactions among the Mujahideen groups. Hezb Wahdat, based in Tehran, defended the operation on humanitarian grounds.
     Some Peshawar-based Mujahideen parties accused Iran of violating Afghan territory and helping only Shia population. Prof. Rabbani asked Iranian diplomats in Pakistan to pro-
 vide an exploration about the operation which was launched without his information.
      Iranian diplomats said the airlift took place at the request of Hezb Wahdat and with the assistance from UN. They said Iran had airdroped relief goods in Nimroz Province, along the border with Iran, at the beginning of 1991 to help the victims of floods. Prof.. Rabbani regretted that he and the rest of the Mujahideen leaders were not consulted by Iran about the airlift
      In a related development the UNHCR has opened its office in Mashed, Khurasan Province, where most of the Afghan refugees live. Iran has also asked for convening of meeting of its officials with the representatives of UNHCR and private relief organizations in Mashed in the near future to discuss ways of repatriation of Afghan refugees. Iran is receiving $13 million per year for the Afghan refugees from the UN.
      Shoora-i-Ittifaq has said Iran has decided to expel all the unregistered Afghan refugees from that country.
      Iran has asked the Mujahideen parties based in Iran to introduce the unregistered Afghans to the government so that they could be expelled.


s
Bound sets Of the 24 issues of AFGHANews 1991 are available for sale at AFGHANews P.O.Box 264- Peshawar Pakistan Price in Pakistan Rs. 30, abroad $10 (including airmail)
                                                STOCKS ARE LIMITED
J
Kabul returns former king's properties
     The Kabul regime has announced returning of properties of the family of the former king , confiscated in May 1978 by the communist regime.
     The citizenship of the former long was also restored by Najib in September of 1991. The former king is living in exile in Rome since 1973.
     Najib’s moves are seen as part of his government's efforts to woo the exmonarch to join the national reconciliation program.
     Pro and anti Zahir Shah meetings have been held in Peshawar and Quetta. These meetings were a reaction to the meeting between Sardar Abdul Wali, the son-in-law of the former king, and Asif Nawaz, the Chief of the Army Staff of Pakistan, in Rome.
     A group of students staged an anti Zahir Shah meeting in University Town, Peshawar, on January 21. They belonged to the Islamist parties.
      On the same day, some elders, commanders and intellectuals, belonging to the moderate parties, held a meeting in support of the former king.
     Iranian Ambassador in Pakistan Jawad Man soon has disputed the reports that Iran had agreed to the return of the former king as the head of the interim government "I cannot foresee a role for him," he said
Masood rejects
               Shah Masood, the head of Supervisory Council, has denied the allegation that he has held discussion with the officials of the Kabul regime.
      Nawa-i-Waqt, a Pakistani daily published in Urdu, had reported, quotirtg Afghan News Agency, that the Kabul regime had offered four million dollars to Masood to prevent him from launching attack on Kabul.
      Commander Masood said that neither he nor any of his officers had met with regime people. " No such an offer has been made to him or any of his officers," Masood said.
      Masood described the report as fabrication of some circles to defame him.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
 £S»;Si»H;snin£
    liiiliifiiiii
Battlefields
Jawzjan Province Herat Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami’at killed 12 militiamen of Dostum, wounded seven and captured 45 others when they attacked the enemy position in Sharm area of Sar-i-Pul District on January 14, Qazi Yasin reported.
    They seized two trucks, two ZPU-1 machineguns, two P.K machineguns and one tank
    Three Mujahideen were killed and eight sustained injuries.
Faryab Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed three enemy soldiers and wounded several others in Samlak area of Astana on January 10, Mawlawi Yusuf reported.
    They seized one machinegun, eight Kalashnikov rifles, and some ammunition.
    Four Mujahideen were injured in the fighting.
    -The Mujahideen killed two enemy soldiers, captured three and seized one P.K. machinegun and four Kalashnikov rifles in Kata Qala of Shireen Taqab District on December 26.
    •Thirteen soldiers were killed and some others were injured when the Mujahideen launched an attack on enemy position in Khwaja Quishri area of Shereen Tagab District on December 27, Mawlawi Yusuf reported. The Mujahideen seized one mortar, one RPG rocket launcher, one heavy machinegun, 15 Kalashnikov rifles and some ammunition.
    •Two ranking officers of the regime, Major Shukrullah, the political commissar of Almar District and Mohammad Seddique, the director of Information Department of Almar, defected to the Mujahideen on January
19, Commander Arbab Hafiz reported.
    • Shadi Khan, a regime militia commander, defected to the Mujahideen along with 1,400 of his men in Obe District on January 15, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    He brought with him 1,400 light weapons, 100 heavy weapons, one armored car and six trucks.
    Thirty villages in the eastern part of Obe came under control of the Mujahideen.
    •An enemy truck loaded with munitions was destroyed by a land mine, planted by the Mujahideen, in Dubardar of Adraskan District, on January 2, Commander Ismail Khan reported. All the occupants of the truck were killed.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen of Jami'at killed one militiaman, wounded four and destroyed one machinegun belonging to the enemy in Dubardar of Adraskan using heavy weapons.
 Samangan Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami’at, based in Kookchinar of Aibak, aborted an attempt by the Kabul regime to attack their base after poisoning their food. Commander Arshad Farid reported.
    A regime agent had succeeded in poisoning the Mujahideen food as a result of which eight Mujahideen lost consciousness. They were treated in the local hospital. The agent was identified and arrested. He admitted his involvement in the crime and revealed that the regime was planning to launch an attack on their base.
    The attack did not take place because of the arrest of the enemy agent. He is going to be tried.
    •The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured three enemy soldiers and killed or wounded many others when they attacked a regime convoy in Ganj area of Khulm District on January 18, Commander Sad Bashi reported.
    The Mujahideen seized two oil
 tankers and some foodstuff from the convoy.
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed many soldiers and destroyed one security post of the the city of Aibak, the provincial capital of Samangan, on January 9, Commander Saifullah Khan reported. They seized one armored car from the enemy.
 Ningarhar Province
    •Sixteen people were killed and four were injured, when Kabul troops fired at a vehicle near Jalalabad on January 12, MIDIA reported.
    The source said the pick up was set up on fire by a tank shell on the Kochiyan Road in Rodat District. The victims were residence of Jalalabad.
    • Two commanders of the Kabul regime and 27 soldiers and militiamen were killed in armed clashes between Khalq and Parc ham faction in the eastern city of Jalalabad on January 16, MIDIA reported.
    Momand Khan, a Khalqi, had imprisoned some militiamen belonging to Shokoor, affiliated to Parcham faction. The arrest caused aimed clashes between the two faction in which die two commanders and scores of their followers were killed.
 Paktia Province
    Lack of coordination between the commanders deprived the Mujahideen from a quick victory in Gardez.
    Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani who is leading a big force in the attack on Gardez said in an interview, published in Jehad Hindara, a paper run by his office, that the Mujahideen failure to block the road at Tira Pass, between Logar and Gardez, was the main reason for the delay of the victory. He said some commanders who had promised to cut the road did not fulfill their promise. He said the. Mujahideen had advanced close to the city but faced fresh forces sent from Kabul. The cold weather also caused some problems far the Mujahideen too.
    Arabs involved in Gardez and Hezb Islami of Hikmatyar claim that Haqqani did not join the attack in the first days despite the agreement reached with other commanders. They say the regime officers in Gardez had told Haqqani that if he did not launch an attack against Gardez, they would defect to him. This promise, a trick by the communists, delayed the attack by Haqqani.
    Haqqani said that the regime troops defending Gardez are facing shortages of food and fuel.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
 rflf
 !
REVIEW
     "THE STORY OF VICTORY" is a two-hour documentary film released by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. It tells the story of the liberation of Khwaja Ghar and trans-Kookcha districts from control of the Kabul regime and successful defense of Khanabad against a massive offensive by the Kabul regime.
     The film is directed by Sidiq Barmak, a talented young artist. He worked for the Afghan Films before defecting to the Mujahideen in 1989. This is the first successful attempt by the Mujahideen to make a film of high-quality without outside assistance. Cameramen show great courage in filming the true combat scenes.
     Decision to launch attack on Khwaja Ghar is taken in the Sixth Meeting of the SC, held in Taliqan. The attack is a pre-emptive move by the Mujahideen to counter the Kabul regime's plan of recapturing Khanabad and Taliqan. Both sides are prepared for a decisive show down.
     The Mujahideen are shown preparing for war. The regime troops are seen consolidating their positions. The footage about regime activities are smuggled from the archive of the Kabul TV.
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at, Harakat and Ittihad (Prof. Sayyaf) take part in the attack. Weapons and strength of each side is evaluated and commanders from both sides are interviewed about the attack.
     Mujahideen commanders are interviewed in their mother languages -Persian, Pushtu and Uzbaki- to show unity of parties and nationalities in the war against communists.
     The viewer can follow fighting with the help of a professionally-made sand table and maps. It is spring. The area is green. Mujahideen cross fields with flowers of all colors.
     As the Mujahideen launch their attack, regime posts fall one after the other. Careful planning, professional execution of the plan and political work before launching the attack breaks the regime defenses. Khwaja Ghar falls. A
 large number of weapons fall in the hands of the Mujahideen. Regime officers flee by helicopter to Soviet Union.
     Masoodi gives clear orders to his troops to protect the people and the city. The Mujahideen behave in a discipline manner. The Mujahideen beat the prisoners of war humanely. Wounded are give medical aid. The weapons captured are divided among the three parties based on an agreed formula.
     The Mujahideen want to chase the retreating enemy forces to Dasht-i-Qala but face the opposition of Engineer Bashir of Hezb Islami.
     Khwaja Ghar is being bombed by planes and SCUD missiles. Two SCUD missiles kill 45 Mujahideen and civilians. Kabul launches a two-pronged attack to recapture Khwaja Ghar. The Mujahideen retreat from the city but keep control of strategic points. Regime also attack Khanabad at the same time. After fierce fighting Khwaja Ghar is liberated for the second time.
      The notorious militiamen of the Kabul regime treat the people of Khwaja Ghar very badly. An old man weeps as he tells the story of militiamen atrocities.
     After the liberation of Khwaja Ghar, Dasht-i-Qala and Rustaq comes under Mujahideen's pressure. They fall to the Mujahideen after severe clashes. Mujahideen make use.of captured tanks
 and artillery in the attacks.
      Eid is celebrated in the battlefield. A convoy of captured tanks on the way to Taliqan give a new look to the Mujahideen forces.
      Two commanders of Jami'at, Sayyed Yitrya and Abdul Hakim, who had played a key role in the first libera tion of Khwaja Ghar are martyred. Their funeral is attended by thousands of people in Taliqan.. Every one is seen weeping.
      Taliqan is being bombed by regime planes to avenge its defeat in Khwaja Ghar. Scores of people are killed or wounded.
      Victory in Khwaja Ghar is a turning point in the new phase of Jehad, an Arab aid worker said.
      Masood, under whose command the victory was won, is seen surrounded by many wireless sets which con nect him to his commandos in the field. Single command, participation of all Mujahideen forces and a workable military and political strategy made the victory possible.
      Although the outside world seems more interested in the peaceful solution of the Afghan issue , watching THE STORY OF VICTORY" is useful to get first hand information about changes the Mujahideen forces have undergone. Military pressure will shape the outcome of a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan. "THE STORY OF VICTORY" is in Persian. A shorter version of the film in English will be ready for distribution soon.
      The video cassettes (VHS system' of "THE STORY OF VICTORY" can be purchased from the MIDIA Office of the AIG for Rs. 300 ($ 12) each plus postage costs
      To receive your copy please contact:
      Mohammad Najib P.O.Box 997 Peshawar - Pakistan Tel: (0521)40768
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
  Editorial
 No alternative to Islamic rule
    The hostile attitude of the leaders of Central Asian republics towards the Mujahideen will not prevent formation of an Islamic government in Kabul.
    Sardar Asif Ali, the State Minister for Economic Affairs of Pakistan, who has returned from a tour of the area has said that leaders of the republics are afraid of formation of a 'fundamentalist' and 'extremely religious' government in Kabul. One of them, the President of Tajikistan, has warned of ethnic clashes and break up of Afghanistan if an Islamic government was formed in Kabul.
    The hostile attitude of the leaders of Central Asian republics towards the Mujahideen and their fear of an Islamic government in Kabul is understandable. They led the communist parties of their republics before the break up of USSR. They are close to Najib and like to see him in power.
    The Mujahideen have fought a decade-long war against the Soviets and their puppets in Kabul to establish an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Formation of such a government is the desire of all sections of the Afghan society. This claim that formation of an Islamic government in Kabul leads to break up of the country on ethnic lines is baseless. On the contrary, a true Islamic government in Kabul insures the unity of the country.
    Islam was a uniting force during the years of Jehad against the Soviets and only an Islamic government keeps the country united. Imported leaders and forms of governments are the root cause of the current crises in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen will not abandon their ultimate goal of establishing an Islamic government to please the outsiders.
    The terms fundamentalist', ’extremely religious' and 'reactionary government’ do not apply to the Islamic government we want to establish. It will be a pure Islamic government guided by the Holy Quran and the teachings of the Holy Prophet (peace be upon him). Such a government poses no threat to anyone and is not a source of instability.
    The leaders of Central Asian republics should abandon their hostile attitude towards the Mujahideen. If they want to live in peace with Afghans, they should not support Najib. Najib and its party have to go because they are the products of the Soviet invasion.
 Algerians victory stolen
    The Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) was about to win a decisive victory in the elections in Algeria but the army intervened and cancelled the second round of elections. Arrest of supporter of FIS has started.
    FIS wanted to introduce Sharia in Algeria. The people of this country had fought a long war under the banner of Islam to earn their independence from colonialists.
    The victory of FIS was stolen by the Algerian army and the democratic system was crushed under the boots of its soldiers.
    This happened without a strong reaction from the outside world. The Western countries who claim to be the supporters of democracy failed to condemn the action of the army in Algeria. Similar actions in other parts of the world would have provoked strong condemnation and even threat of economic blockades. The leaders of the Islamic countries adopted an indifferent attitude. The media in the Islamic countries repeated the derogatory labels given to the Muslims in Algeria by the Western press,
    Afghan Jehad suffers from a similar attitude. When the Mujahideen fought the Soviets and there was no sign of victory, the Western world called them freedom fighters and extended all sorts of support to them. But, when the sings of Mujahideen’s victory became clear, they backed off. Now they want to see a government in Kabul in which the Mujahideen are not in a dominating position.
    Jami'at sympathize with its Muslim brothers in Algeria and condemn the decision of Algerian leaders to annul the result of the elections won by HS.
 Mujahideen release 1,000 regime prisoners of war
     As many as 1,000 prisoners of war, captured during the fall of Khost, were released by Mawlawi Jalalaluddin Haqqani on January 22.
     Mawlawi Haqqani told a group of newsmen at Zhawara in Paktia province that during the fall of Khos 1,700 soldiers were captured by the his group. He had released scores of them on different occasions.
     He said that only 190 officers, including five generals, remained in his captivity. A decision would be taken about them in the near future.
     Mawlawi Haqqani said that during the 10 months of captivity, the regime personnel were taught the tenets of Islam and they are now practicing Muslims.
     The released soldiers pledged not to rejoin the regime army.
     Haqqani urged the soldiers who were set free to work for Islam and advocate its cause. He said that by releasing the POWs, he wanted to show to the world that the Mujahideen do not avenge those who lay down arms.
     A team of Amnesty international and Dr. Filex Ermacora, the UN special envoy on human rights situation in Afghanistan, had visited the prisoners of war kept by Commander Haqqani. They also visited the war museum of Haqqani in his base in Jawara where different types of weapons used against the Mujahideen are displayed.
     The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has been given permission by the Kabul regime to visit prisoners held by the Afghan state security ministry (WAD), Red Cross officials said.
     The head of the ICRC delegation in Kabul, Didier Helg, said the ICRC had begun visiting state security prisoners from January 13.
     "It is an important achievement for the ICRC. But . . . our hope is that there will be continuity of this procedure," Helg said.
     The ICRC first started its work in the Afghan capital in 1982, but had to leave after a brief stay. It returned in 1987.
     Since then, it has been visiting prisoners held by the Afghan ministries of justice and internal affairs, but was not allowed to meet detainees of the state security ministry.
     The Kabul move is seen as an attempt to improve its international image.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Mawlawi Sayyed Akber
     Mawlawi Sayyed Akber is the Chief Justice and a . member of the Executive Committee of the Supervisory Council . He is also in charge of the religious schools (madra-sas) of the council.
     When the communist coup of 1978 took place, Mawlawi Sayyed Akber left teaching in a ma-drasa in Taliqan and returned to his hometown,
 Worsaj. He continued teaching in the mosque of his village until the Mujahideen liberated Worsaj at the end of 1979.
     The
 Mujahideen appointed him as the judge of the local administration. He also served as the administrator of Worsaj for a few months.
     When Masood began to organize Worsaj, Mawlawi Sayyed Akber supported him. Since then, he has been involved in strengthening of the council. He acts as a religious advisor to Commander Masood.
     Sayyed Akber began his regular studies at the age of 15. He became a student of Mawlawi Ashraf, a prominent scholar, in Tarisht, a side-valley of Worsaj. Later, he moved to Taliqan where he continued his studies. He also worked as a manual laborer in his spare time to support himself financially.
     Sayyed Akber studied in a madra-sa in Farza, Mir Bachakoot District, where he came in contact with students of Abu-Hanifa school (a religious
Dead mawlawi reaches Kabul
    Mullah Gulajan, a pro- regime religious figure who was pardoned by the Mujahideen after being captured in March of 1991, has escaped to Kabul.
    He used to give anti-Mujahideen speeches through Khost radio when it was controlled by the regime. When the Khost fell, Mullah was forgiven and was allowed tolive a peaceful life.
    The Kabul regime radio accused the Mujahideen of killing Mullah and organized memorial services in Kabul with the participation of ranking military and civilian officers. He was given thetitleofmanyi\
    The Kabul regime has not celebrated the return of Mullah to Kabul because of the extensive propaganda it made for his rumored death.
 school run by government) and the Faculty of Islamic Law. The politically ' charged atmosphere of Kabul had an effect on him and he became an activist of the Islamic Movement He completed his studies in Worsaj in 1971.
     In Taliqan, his mosque served as a meeting point for the Mujahideen to exchange information and to make contact with each other.
     Mawlawi Sayyed Akber is a scholar of high academic    stan-
 dards. He has inherited the knowledge           of
 traditional Ulamas and has been affected by ideas of the Islamic revivalists. He has studied books written by modem Islamic scholars from Iran, Pakistan and Middle East He could be described as an enlightened traditional scholar. This quality makes him a useful supporter of Masood who is trying to develop the areas he controls.
     Sayyed Akber speaks in Persian and he can communicate in Arabic. He is a fairly good writer and is able to writes poetry. His favorite poet is Alania Iqbal.
     He combats the social evils through peaceful means and does his daily job through consultation with his colleagues.
     He knows the art of dealing with people very well but lacks experience in office works. He lives a simple life and could not be distinguishable from ordinary people by his clothes and manners.
     He was bom 44 years ago in Meyan Shahr village of Worsaj. His father, Sayyed Akber, had died few months before he was bom. His mother give him the name of his father. His father was an old man and left behind a small house and no farmland. Sayyed Akber was raised by his step father. At the age of seven, he started to work with a carpenter in the village to support his mother. At the same time, he attended the school of the village.
     It was Mawlawi Ashraf who discovered his natural gift for learning and encouraged him to devote his life to learning. He is married and has five children.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         .Kirghiziaand;A^baiiarL-:. .:;V■■;7Z MuseumAand
 kilted wtien their ’car v^;-lniShed:ll^::
 Sjg 5i;!g /y'\ '■ '•_' —'• . .

    The Kabul regime secret police has siai^d.buming its
                                                                              criminal ftps' special Incendiary- mate^ xtq^bttra.:
                                                                              MMiiBpoinu KHAD was
                                                                                                                                            lit •
 ;                          - has. joined
                                                                                                                                                     y/fc a
                                                                                                                    based in Kahmard District, Bamyan
PHNMMi
|||np£||£|
jp pay war
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
 Sakhi Ahmad
     I and Zahir worked for the Mujahideen Radio in the Panjshir Valley. Soviets were preparing to launch the fifth offensive against the Valley. We went to Darband village, at the mouth of the valley and overlooking Shemali plateau, to pick up our small FM transmitter and take it to the upper part of the valley to continue our nightly transmissions during the offensive. The village was abandoned because the day before it was heavily bombed by Russianjets.
     We found an old man in the center of the village. He had stayed in the village because he was unable to move. I asked him where the Mujahideen were. He pointed towards the hill overlooking the village. We went towards the hill calling the name of a local radio operator, Ghulam Husain. Some people who were hiding behind the rocks waved at us to go to them. We thought they were local Mujahideen. I was the first to reach and discovered thai they were Russian soldiers. Twenty of them surrounded me. 1 was not armed and could not escape. Zahir, who was following me at a distance, did not see what happened to me was also captured. He was armed with a Kalashnikov. We pretended to be defectors but our story failed to convince them.
     At night, they tied our hands and legs and stuffed a piece of rug in our mouths and pressed us between two boulders. We spent long harsh night.
 The next day some groups of militiamen and regime soldiers came. They insulted us and even beat us, but our Russian captors stopped them. In the | evening we were taken to Qala-i-Surkh, the Soviet base in Jabulseraj, on a tank. In the base we were given a few pieces of dry bread and a glass of, water.
     The next day interrogation start-!■ ed. I was taken to a large tent where p five officers were setting in a circle. Three soldiers who were experts in; martial arts started to beat me on the face, stomach, legs and all over the body. They wanted to extract information from me. We had decided not to tell them anything about the radio. But they had found a paper on me in which the expenditure of transportation of the jatteiy was written. They wanted to know what was the battery for. After one hour of beating I fell unconscious, la the afternoon I awakened and found that some of my ribs were broken and I was feeling pain all over my body.
     We were taken to Bagram air base for further interrogation and then were handed over to KHAD, the regime secret police, which brought us to Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan.
     We were taken to Panjshir to show them die Mujahideen's positions. In Rukha, they kept us for a few days. A barrage of mortar shells by the Mujahideen, one
 morning, left many Soviet and regime officers killed and wounded. The demoralized regime troops returned to Anawa, the lower part of the valley . Here, our interrogation continued and we. were tortured occasionally.
      After one week we were flown to Bagram and then to Kabul. KHAD armed guards took us to Shash Darak detention center in the city. After four months I was sentenced to 12 years and Zahir to IS years of jail.
      I served five years in jail and then was taken into the regime army. After spending a few months in the army, I went to the Panjshir. 1 met Masood in Worsaj, Takhar Province, and he assigned me to a job in the communication department of the Supervisory Council.
       Before coining to Panjshir in 1981,1 had spent two years in Bulgaria where I was trained as worker in food preservation.
      After finishing high school, I was looking for job to support my family. I was among five hundred students sent to Bulgaria for what was called higher studies.
  The two technicians of Radio Free Afghanistan Sher Agha (left) and Zahir (right).
 In Bulgaria, we found that the program was vocational training. • The students boycotted the classes. After ten days the regime's ambassador came and captured eight students who were identified as students leaders and sent diem back to Afghanistan. The rest were threatened with similar action if they continued their strike.
      After two years, it was decided to send all the students back to Kabul, except for ten people. The program was for three and a half years but due to tension between the students and teachers the term was shortened.
      After a short stay in .Kabul I went to Panjshir to join the Mujahideen. I met with
 Masood and offered my services to him. He told me to wait After two months, a portable radio transmitter was brought from Pakistan and I was assigned to work as a broadcaster. I received training from a Frenchman. A French support committee had donated the transmitter to the Mujahideen.
     Our station was an FM set working with a battery. We either charged the battery in Panjshir using a generator, or took it to Jabulseraj, where electricity was available. We had a nightly transmission of 45 minutes, a half hour of which was in Persian and the remaining 15 minutes in Russian.
     We were broadcasting from the top of the mountain at mouth of the valley to cover Shemali and Kabul. We knew that people in Kabul who had FM receivers could listen to our programs.
     I should add that the radio operation was supervised by Mohammad Es’haq who made the program and looked after the whole program. Sher Agha, Jkramuddin, Zahir, Ghulam Husain and I were the field operators.
     In the fifth offensive Sher Agha ' and Ikramuddin were killed in fighting against the Soviets, I and Zahir were captured and Ghulam'Husain lost his father. A big blow to a small team!
     Five years of prison were difficult indeed. We had many problems. I may forget every other hardship but cannot forget the insult of the communist officers.
     For those who had a desire to leant, prison was like faculty. We were taught by Islamic scholars who served prison terms. Prison officers transferred the teachers continuously from one room to to another to interrupt classes.
     While the majority of prisoners belong to the Mujahideen there were a few Khalqis and Maoists who were also jailed by regime. They were kept away from the rest of the prisoners.
     In prison, I was told an interesting story by Pahlawan Gulshah from Darwaz of Badakhshan. He was a strong man and this is why he was . called PaMawan, in Persian meaning wrestler. Soviet soldiers captured Gulshah and other 49 Mujahideen of Darwaz, close to the Soviet border, in 1979. The captured Mujahideen were killed except for Gulshah who had family relations with one of the local Soviet officers. He was handed over to the regime authorities who jailed him in Kabul Villages along the border are separated, by tiie river which makes the border. Before the occupation of the area by Russian, people in both sides had family relationships.
     Gulshah showed his physical strength when he fought with five ward officers. Five officers, equipped with cables and iron bars, barely defeated him after an hour-long struggle. After being released, Gulshah went to his area to continue Jehad.
                                           AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page O
 Abu Panah                         A
     On November 26,1 left Peshawar for Farah Province to survey the work of some relief organizations based in Peshawar. In order to pass through Iran, I obtained visa from the Iranian consulate in Peshawar. Afghans refugees living in Pakistan who want to visit Iran are required to get visa from Iranian consulates in Peshawar and Quetta. Those who fail to do so will be jailed and then expelled.
     In Taftan border post, I presented myself to the border authorities of Iran and they sent me to a camp set up for Afghans on die border. I and hundred of other Afghans who had entered Iran by the permission of Iranian consulates in Peshawar and Quetta spent nine long days in the fortress-type camp which was guarded by security men of the Islamic Republic.
     In addition to several hundred visa-holders Afghans, few thousand refugees from Hazarajat, central part of Afghanistan, were also kept there. These people, most of than women and children, had escaped the food shortage in their villages and were trying to take refuge in Iran.
     Living conditions in the camp were appalling. The inhospitable camp authorities provided food for the refugee families which was not enough to keep them full. Others had to buy their food from die canteen of the camp at prices five times higher than outside the camp.
     The weather was very cold. The detained Afghans had to sleep on bare floor of crowded tents and concrete rooms with no blankets to keep them warm. Many people had become sick due to cold weather.
      The authorities of the camp behaved very badly towards the refugees and even insulted them. I begged two religious scholars from among the refugees of Hazarajat to go to the officer in charge of the camp and ask him about the reason for our detention despite having valid visas. They were kind enough t° go and speak on our behalf. The camp officer refused to talk to them and ordered them to get out of his office. It was very disappointing to the two scholars who expected fair treatment from the authorities of the Islamic Republic.
      One morning, residence of the camp were ordered through a loudspeaker to clean the camp. After the cleanup operation, they were told to que in front of the health clinic1 of the camp. A UN team visited the camp. They took pictures and filmed people being treated by the Iranian doctors. Everything seemed fine. A young Afghan from Herat drew the attention of the UN team to the plight of stranded Afghans in the camp. He told them that he and hundreds of other Afghans were kept there for more than a week despite holding visas. He complained about die high price of food in die camp and said that all of his money was spent during detention. The UN officers ibid him they would talk to the Iranian authorities about the problems of Afghan visitors. When the UN team had left, die camp officers put the poor man from Herat into a
car and drove him away. God knows what happened to him. Iranian officers seemed very angry with him because he had embarrassed them in front of the UN team. .
     After nine tiring days, I was taken to Zahidan and was issued with a special pass allowing me to go to Bairjand, Khurasan Province. After spending a few days in Shamsabad refugee camp, I crossed the border to Farah Province.1 visited Shindand, Anardara, Qala-i-Kah and Lash-o-Juwain districts during this trip.
     The situation in Shindand seemed good. Commander Abdul Aziz leads the Mujahideen from Jami'at in that district. He is an ex-army officer from Shindand District having close ties with Commander Ismail Khan. Colonel Aziz has also good relations with NIFA, led by Sayyed Ahmad Gailani. When I was in Shindand, two militia commanders of the Kabul regime fought each other. The soturi of their artillery reached the Mujahideen base. Scores of militiamen wen killed or wounded in these clashes. Shindand town and air base are controlled by the regime while the rest of the district is controlled by the Mujahideen. The road connecting the base to Herat is occasionally blocked by the Mujahideen.
     During one week stay in Shindand, I saw no jet fighter taking off or landing in the base. That might be due to fuel shortage.
 I saw two helicopters, one day , flying on die base.
     Before I reached Shindand two Mujahideen commanders were martyred in an attack inside the air base. One of them was Commander Abdul Fatah who had blown several regime jets in 1985 when he served as a soldier in the base. The other was Lieutenant Jamaluddin, an air force officer who still served in Shindand base. They had planned blowing up all the regime jets in die base. Jamahiddin had got die pass word into the base. After approval of the plan by Commander Abdul Aziz, die two men began their mission. Wearing night visions, they readied close 10 the planes. In die tense situation, one of the mines that they wanted to plant exploded prematurely and martyred them both. The people talked about them and'considered . their martyrdom a great loss to die Mujahideen.
       A hospital, run by die Mujahideen, treated patients, including those living under control of die Kabul regime. The hospital faced shortages of medicine due to suspension of aid by relief organization in protest to incidents of violence against aid workers inside Afghanistan. Now that die ban is lifted, the hospital in Shindand will have medicine to treat the people. The hospital is run by competent doctors, some of whom graduates of Faculty of Medicine of Kabul University. I saw one school and one Madrasa (a religious school) run by Commander Abdul Aziz.
       Food and fuel were available in die market. Wheat was available at 1,600 Afghani per Ser (seven kilograms) and cooking.oil 8,000 Afs per Ser. Lamb and beef were sold 1,600 and 1200 Afs per kil-
ogram respectively. Petrol was sold 1,700 Afs. per gallon. Before winter each gallon of petrol was sold 800 Afs. Food and fuel, smuggled from Iran, reaches both die Mujahideen-controlled areas and the regime
     Regime officers in Shindand were trying to make money by all means. They released two Mujahideen prisoners for 2.4 million Afs. They were part of 12 Mujahideen of Jami'at captured in an ambush some months ago.
     A vaccination center worked in Anardara District under protection of Mawlawi Faqii Ahmad of Hezb Islami (Khalis). He was accused of selling some Stinger missiles to Iran during Iran-fraq war. He claimed, however, that Iran had confiscated the missiles by force.
     Faqir Ahmad was fighting a Jami'at commander last year, but they were living in peace now. Their dispute which was of tribal nature was solved by mediation of local elders,
     Anardara is a trading center for many districts of Farah. Food and fuel are brought from Iran to the town . Aims and ammunition were freely sold in the market..
     Iran allows limited amount of food to pass to major commanders but most of the food and fuel is brought through illegal ways. If intercepted by Iranian guards, die goods and vehicles will be confiscated. Sometime ago, Uranian authorities auctioned about 70 pick up cars and other vehicle confiscated from Afghan involved in cross-border trade. They were sold back to them.
     A new development in the area was formation of a new base by Rasool Akhundzada on the border with ban. It was believed that die base was used to smuggle ' opium. The local Mujahideen, especially Commander Aziz, resented the establishment of the base but could do little to stop it because it could provoke tribal dashes.
     General Hamza who fled to Pakistan with Shah Nawaz Tania, after an abortive coup against Najft\ has established himself in Hezb Islami base in Lash-o-Juwain District He has made association with a group of Maoists who have moved from Nimroz to Helmand after developing problems with Ulemas there. The Maoist, known as Sholaies, form a force of 500 armed mm. Most of them shave their beard . and wear scarf around their heads. They came from different parts of Afghanistan. The Maoists have been lately receiving , arms and financial assistance, from Prof. Mujaddidi’s organization. They were introduced to this party by Sulaiman Mujaddidi, a respected figure in Farah, who now admits that he accepted them in the party without knowing enough about them. The Maoists also receive humanitarian aid from relief organizations based in Quetta.
     In Lash-o-Juwain, I met Commander Sharif of Jami’at a. Baluch; who showed great interest :in die work of Commander Masood. He said the Mujahideen in die area lacked proper organization and training to defeat die regime forces.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 3, February 1,1992, page ©
Australian Senator launches Afghanistan peace mission
 Mahmoud Saikal
    Australian federal opposition Social Security Minister, Liberal MP, Senator Richard Alston met Afghan Mujahideen leaders in Pakistan, Najibullah in Kabul, and is planning to meet former king, Zahir Shah, in Rome to see if the Australian Government could help Afghanistan, said his Boxhill (Vic) Electorate office secretary on 14 January.
    In Pakistan, Alston met National Liberation Front leader Sebghatullah Mujaddidi and Jami'at Island's Political Office head Dr. Najibullah Lafraie. He also visited some of the Afghan refugee camps.
    Details of Alston’s discussions with Mujaddidi and Lafraie are not known yet. Mujaddidi could not be contacted and Lafraie had gone to Cairo to attend the OIC Information and Culture Ministers conference.
    In Kabul Najibullah told Alston that Australia should help the Afghans achieve stability. Alston said Australia would try to help bring peace to the nation.
    This is the first time an Australian politician shows deep interest in the Afghanistan issue.
    An Australian Foreign Affairs official said Alston's visit to Pakistan and Afghanistan and his meetings with Mujahideen leaders and Najibullah was in his personal capacity and had nothing to do with the Australian government
    Alston’s electorate office said he was on a tour of India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, England, Egypt and Ethiopia and is due back in Australia on 3 February.
    In March 1987, after a request from the "Afghan Australia Council" and the support and encouragement of the then Archbishop of Melbourne, Alston became the chairman of the council. Afghan Australia Council was a coalition of four Afghan community (mostly refugees) organizations in Melbourne. By the end of 1989 however, the council was weaker and Alston left, the position. Today, some of the founding members of the council believe that Alston's interest in Afghanistan is purely for his own political campaign.
    However, some other members believe he genuinely struggled for the withdrawal of the Soviet forces from Afghanistan.
     What role Australia could play in the Afghan issue:
     Since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, December 1978, Australia's toughest response has been the boycott of the Moscow 1980 Olympic Games. In 1983, Australia approved a position for the representation of the then "Islamic Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen" which was occupied by two successive members of Hezb Island (Hikmatyar). After two years, however, the alliance was dissolved. But Hezb Island's representatives continued to operate under the name of the Alliance. In 1990 the Australian government refuges to renew the then representative's visa. In January 1989 Jami'at Island Afghanistan opened its representation in Australia.
     Throughout the years of soviet invasion the Australian government refused to recognize the Kabul regime and gave its moral support to the Mujahideen.
     Bill Hayden, during his years of Foreign Affairs ministry, went to Pakistan and held talks with JIA leader Prof. Rabbani. In April 1989, shortly after the formation of Mujahideen's Afghan interim government (AIG) its Foreign Affairs Minister Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, visited Australia and held talks with the Australian Foreign Affairs Minister Senator Gareth Even, during which Australia continued to give its moral support to the Mujahideen. However, diplomatic efforts of the above nature have not been consistent and the outcomes of the meetings have not been followed seriously.
     Since the Soviet withdrawal of Afghanistan, the Australian stand on Afghanistan has leaned towards neutrality.
     During the 13 years of war in Afghanistan, the Australian international Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) and other non-governmental aid organizations, namely Austcare, have financed various projects in relation to millions of Afghan refugees, through other Western aid organizations based in Pakistan. In 1991, AIDAB approved a sum of $500,000 to finance some of the mostly International aid organizations' projects for Afghan refugees.
     Since the Soviet invasion, Australia has allowed some thousands of Afghan refugees to come to Australia.
 United States resumes its relief aid
    American humanitarian aid to Afghans was resumed when a US aid worker, Joel DeHart, being held captive by a Hezb Island (Hikmatyar) commander for six months in Ghazni, was released on January 5.
    In 1992 the US will continue its support for 3,000 health clinics. 1,100 primary schools, the construction of 200 kilometers of major roadways and the repair and replacement of bridges damaged during the war. In addition, the US will finance more than 1,000 rural public works projects and provide about 25 percent of the country's fertilizer needs. Total value of the programme in 1992 will exceed $60 million.
    The 34-year old DeHart was handed over by Hezb Island to Gerald Feicrstein, US Council in Peshawar on January 5. Dr. Mark Morris of the private voluntary agency "Global Partners," which had sent DeHart into Afghanistan, was also present on the occasion.
    DeHart was seized on July 6 in the Jaghori area of Ghazni Also seized was 66-year old William Leweis with whom DeHart worked as a translator. The two Americans had altered Afghanistan in June to train Afghans in animal inoculation.
    William Lewis was freed on October 20 through the intervention of Sayyed Ahmad Gailani.
    A Hezb official said that their party commander Akhund Salman had act ed on his own when he detained DeHart.
    USAID intends to pay the salaiy of the teachers of primary schools in the refugee camps in Pakistan. Due to shortage of funds, many schools run by the political parties were either closed or are facing great difficulties.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                              Please send your donations to die following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan
Vol 8, No 4                                          February 15,1992
United Nations to host intra-Afghan dialogue
     The UN efforts to find a political solution to the Afghan conflict entered a new phase when the UN Secretary-General Boutros Ghali issued a statement on January 27 showing readiness to host a meeting of Afghans that is supposed to propose a mechanism for the transitional administration and transfer of power.
     Welcoming the implementation of negative symmetry by Moscow and Washington, the UN chief asked other countries to stop sending arms and money for the purpose of buying arms to both sides of the conflict. He said he had been requested by numerous groups in both sides of the conflict to organize holding intra-Afghan dialogue outside the region and he was prepared to do so.
     Soon after Ghali's statement, Benon Sevan came to Pakistan (o hold consultations with different Mujahideen groups and the government of Paikistan. On the way to Islamabad, he met with the former king in Rome^nd with Pir Gailani, the leader of NIFA, in London. In Pakistan, he met all the Mujahideen leaders, except Prof. Sayyaf who refused to talk to him.
     In his discussions with the Mujahideen leaders he revealed his plan for holding the proposed meeting. According to the plan, a list of 150 men will be formed from among the names proposed by different groups, including the Kabul regime. The list will include the names of non-controversial people acceptable by aU sides. In order to make his job easier, Sevan has asked the leaders of different groups to introduce 2nd and third-rank personalities of parties so that controversial figures are left out Once all sides have agreed on a list of 150 men, they meet for two or three days in Geneva, Vienna or Ankara to discuss the issue and choose from among themselves, or outside, 35 people as a working team. This team will have the job of proposing a mechanism for transfer
 of power to an interim government and its composition. This group will also pave the way for holding a grand meeting of Afghans representing all sides to approve the plan. The UN will supervise this process until elections are held for the formation of a permanent government Members of the working team cannot become a member of the transitional government.
     This proposal provoked different reactions from within the Mujahideen: Prof. Sayyaf rejected it as conspiracy against Islam. Hikmatyar called it impractical and time-wasting. Khalis said the UN should declare the Kabul regime illegal before any plan is discussed. The three leaders, Mujaddidi, Mohammadi and Gailani, expressed their support to the UN plan in a joint statement They noted, however, that they were against participation of" the regime in the talks. Hezb Wahdat and Harakat of Mohsini and Jami’at have raised some questions about process of selection of 150 men and the mandate of the proposed body. All Mujahideen have said they will not talk to the Kabul regime.
     Sevan paid a visit to Kabul and Teheran to consult with the Kabul regime and Iranian leaders. Iran supports the UN plan. Pakistan has expressed strong support for the UN plan and has stopped passage of arms to the Mujahideen through its territory. This policy of Pakistan was well-received by the UN, members of CIS and the Kabul regime.
     The UN envoy is reluctant to give any clue of what he has in mind about the proportion of representatives of each side in the 150 assembly. BBC quoting a diplomatic source in Kabul reported that 40 percent will be given to the Mujahideen, 40 percent to Kabul ' and 20 percent to Zahir Shah.
     Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to Afghanistan, alsp visited Pakistan at the beginning of February to meet with the Mujahideen leaders. The American policy is to support the UN plan
 Commanders discuss war strategy
    The meeting of the Council of Commanders, held in Jawar of Paktia Province, concluded on February 1. The meeting discussed the military and political situation of the country:
    Jalaluddin Haqqani, Abdul Haq, Sayyed Jagran, Mohammad Amin Wardak, Mohammad Anwar, commanders of Hezb-i-Wahdat and Harakat-i-Islami (Mohsini) participated in the four-day deliberations.
    Due to the cold climate and logistical problems, the com manders belonging to the Supervisory Council and southwest region could not attend-the meeting. These commanders wanted the meeting to be postponed so that all commanders could participate in it
    Around 550 commanders partici paled in the Jawar meeting ( 85 from Wahdat Party and 35 from Harakat-i-Islami of Mohsini). The meeting passed a resolution the important points of which are:
    •    The meeting rejected ceasefire with the Kabul regime and insisted on the continuation of Jehad until the collapse of the communist regime^
    •    It proposed formation a of transitional government by commanders, Ulama, intellectuals and tribal elders.
    •    It asked the Mujahideen political leaders to forge unity among them selves so that the achievements o; Jehad are not wasted.
    •    It formed a commission to work out a detailed plan for the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and an Islamic army.
    - It was not opposed the five-point UN plan if it led to the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    Those commandos who did not take part in the meeting will be in formed about the decisions of the meeting.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©

■iSHIThe Battlefields
■""I::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::"
Kabul Province
    Forty enemy soldiers joined the Mujahideen of Jami’at in Shakar Dara District, about 25 kilometers north of the city of Kabul, in two days of fighting which began on January 13, Zabit Mansoor reported.
    The Mujahideen seized 15 tanks and armored cars, 60 Kalashnikov rifles, four P.K. machineguns, three mortars, five RPG rocket launchers and some ammunition. The troops were stationed in five outpost belonging to the security belt around Kabul. The deputy commander of the posts cooperated with the Mujahideen.
Parwan Province
    Shir Gul, a notorious militia commander, and some of his men, were killed when his jeep hit a land mine near Charikar, the provincial capital, on January 19, Commander Ghulam Jailani reported.
    The Kabul regime promoted Shir Gul to the rank of general after his death.
Herat Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at killed 15 soldiers injured 50 and captured six in Qala-i-Gada Ha and Sang-i-Bast of Zindajan on January 16, Commander Ismail Khan reported. They seized two mortars, two P.K machineguns, 13 Kalashnikov rifles, three R-105 radio sets and some ammunition. The villages were freed from control of the regime forces.
    •Two enemy officers were killed and one truck was captured when the Mujahideen attacked an enemy convoy mi Herat-Islam Qala road on January 15, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    •The Mujahideen captured two regime officers and seized one truck and some ammunition when they ambushed an enemy convoy on Herat-Shindand road on January 17, Commander
 Ismail Khan reported. Several enemy soldiers were killed in the operations. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 Badghis Province
    Two militia commanders, Abduz Zahir and Habibullah, and 100 of their men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna District on January 21, Commander Ibrahim reported.
    They brought with them 160 light and heavy weapons and two trucks loaded with ammunition.
    On January 30, another group of 150 militiamen defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna District bringing with them three trucks loaded with ammunition, foodstuff and clothes.
 Samangan Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami’at ambushed an enemy convoy in Kholm District on January 23 killing six enemy troops and injuring some others. Commander Sad Bashi reported.
    One enemy truck was set on fire and two trucks, loaded with foodstuff, six Kalashnikoy rifles and some ammunition were seized.
    On the same day, the Mujahideen attacked the army headquarters in Kholm with heavy weapons inflicting heavy losses to the enemy. In retaliation, the enemy troops attacked the areas controlled by the Mujahideen with heavy weapons injuring a few civilians and destroying some houses.
 Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Tamlok Astana of Shireen Tagab on January 27, as a result of which the post was captured, eight Kalashnikov rifles and one machinegun were seized, a number of regime's troops were killed and three others were injured, Mawlawi Yousuf
 reported. Four Mujahideen sustained injuries during the operation.
 Kunduz Province
    An enemy security post and 12 soldiers were captured and one RPG rocket launcher, one P.K machinegun and 12 Kalashnikov rifles were seized when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the Kabul regime troops stationed in Zar Kharid, close to the city of Kunuz, on February 5, Commander Arif Khan reported.
 Badakhshan Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at capture 30 regime soldiers when they attacked the security posts of Faizabad, the provincial capital, on November 7, Commander Abdul Basir Khalid reported..
    They seized the following arms and ammunition:
    •ZPU-U.............1
    • Mortar (82mm)....1
    • Grenade launcher .... 1
    • P.K machineguns.... 2
    • Kalashnikov rifles... 30
    • R-104 radio sets.2
    • Some ammunition
    •     A commander of WAD, the regime secret police, and a number of soldiers were killed on February 6 .in fighting between WAD and SAZA men west of Faizabad, Commander Basir reported.
    They clashed when the WAD officer tried to bring a security post belonging to SAZA under his control. The report adds that tension between WAD and SAZA, a communist faction headed by Mahboobullah Koshani is very high. SAZA lost its main base in Takhar to the Supervisory Council last Summer.
 Ghore Province
    •Four regime soldiers were killed, five injured and five captured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked a security post of the regime in Pay Kotal of Shahrak District on January 31, Commander Haji Gul reported. The report adds that five civilians, captured by regime troops were also released.
    •The Mujahideen killed 12 soldiers, destroyed one enemy security post and seized 20 light weapons in Bara Khana of Chakhcharan on January 12, Commander Abdus Salam reported.
    •Three Mujahideen of Jami'at were killed and two were wounded when they were ambushed by the regime
 (I
 To page (7)
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
Book Review
Looking to the future
                                                       Edited by Suroosh Irfani and Fazal-ur-Rahman
                                                          Institute of Strategic Studies,
                                                           F-5(2, Islamabad, Pakistan
                                                         Price $6 paperback. 156 pages.
     The rebuilding of Afghanistan after a devastating war is the subject of a new book with valuable chapters by Afghan, Pakistani and German analysts who were brought together at a seminar held in Islamabad, under the auspices of Pakistan's prestigious current affairs institute and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation of Germany.
     On the sensitive issue of repatriation of Afghan refugees, Pakistani specialist Nasim Zahra sums up succinctly the present problem and ways of resolving it, in the interests of both countries. She shows that Pakistan's role is crucial, both at the political and and reconstruction level. Renee Van Royyen of UNHCR states a definite, wish to return home among many of the refugees. Yet, given all the current dangers inside the country and political uncertainties, active promotion of repatriation by UNHCR would be premature. Sabah-ud-din Kushkaki, Afghanistan editor of the review 'Afghan Jehad’ writes that the refugees will not return unless a new government in Kabul comes up to their expectations. He goes on to describe the many failures on the part of the Afghan Interim Government (AIG) based in Pakistan, and outlines the necessity, as he sees it, of a group of non-partisan Afghans to woik out a solution to break the deadlock preventing peace.
     The vital question of economic reconstruction is covered in diverse contributions, which agree that peace has to come before the most important stage of rebuilding Afghanistan begins in earnest Martin Barber of UNOCA restates the progress of the UN and NGOs over the past decade. In spite of all the obstacles, an encouraging beginning has been made. The infrastructure, both physical and human, is now in place for implementation of major rehabilitation programs, but it is vital that peace is made now, before the international community loses patience.
     An Afghan perspective is provided by Engineer Abdul Rahim, director of Reconstruction Authority for Afghanistan. He suggests a planning
 commission of Afghan experts backed up by advisers from Muslim countries and the UN, focussing on the country's smashed infrastructure of roads and irrigation systems. Fazl-ur-Rahman, a fellow of QSI, points to the basic ambivalence of Afghan attitudes towards international aid. Afghan suspicious of donor agencies' involvement in Afghan politics has made for a 'problematic relationship'. Rather than being seen as a potential unifying influence, the aid givers and their organizations can be seen to be divisive. Pakistan, he claims, has considerable potential to help with highly skilled manpower, helping with higher education and health in particular.
     The last section of this book looks to the future. Professor Rasul Amin, formerly of Kabul University, writes on the future shape of Afghan society, and the challenge of nation-building in 'a commonwealth of people and cultures.' The many formidable socio-culiural problems are also addressed by Amin. The emergence of ideological parties is a major new element, he writes, which has further fragmented tribes, ethnic groups and sects, and presents problems for political restructuring. Amin warns, "Afghanistan cannot afford a political system based on cultural units though a division of power along administrative lines would be feasible.
     De Imtiaz H Bokhari of ISSI stresses the care needed by Pakistan in future relations with an Afghanistan restored to full independence. It should not force the pace in negotiations, and its officials should be alive to the sensitivity of bilateral relations. Above all.
 warns Bokhari, Islamabad must not be perceived to be assuming the role of a "big brother".' To date, these has been an almost total failure of past plans and bold visions (often fantasies) of regional economic integration in Asia and other wide regions, as well as of the OIC grouping. Nor can too much realistically be expected from a new suggested grouping of its neighbors Iran, Pakistan and possibly Turkey in a Muslim Common Market.
     The economic potential of Afghanistan is the subject of a highly realistic contribution by Professor Volker Nienhaus of Bochum University. In spite of the manifest inequality of previous Soviet-Afghan economic relations, with exploitation of Afghanistan - especially with the Muslim Central Asian republics of the former USSR - can be more equal and mutually beneficial.
     Whether they like *it or not, Afghans have become effectively dependent on Soviet technology at least into the medium-term. German aid could take the form of provision of a range of Soviet technology, either free or at highly concessionary terms, from those many plants of the former German Democratic Republic which have become effectively redundant since re-unification of the two Germanies. Present a 'shopping list' of Soviet technology to the German government, as soon as a new government is in place in Kabul, advises Neinhaus, and the Germans will do what they can. Before the 1979 invasion, the West Germans were the biggest Western provider of development aid to Afghanistan, next to the USA. Could it be that they will soon take up this position once again?
      Anthony Hyman
      Courtesy: ARIN
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15,1992, page @
 UN peace formula needs modification
    The UN efforts to find a political solution to the problem of Afghanistan enjoys the support of most of the Mujahideen parties. The UN can and Should play a role in bringing a just solution to the conflict in Afghanistan.
    The UN peace efforts entered a new phase when Secretary-General Boutros Ghali announced on January 27 that he was ready to host a gathering of Afghans outside the region to discuss the mechanism of a transitional administration.
    This announcement is based on the five-point UN plan revealed by the former UN secretary-general in May 1991. The plan had ambiguity regarding intra-Afghan dialogue and the Mujahideen had asked the UN chief to clarify it.
    The Mujahideen were united in rejecting direct or indirect talks with the Kabul regime and had opposed observation of ceasefire as long as the Kabul regime was in power.
    The proposed gathering of Afghans is an arrangement for holding intra-Afghan dialogue. To make it acceptable to the Mujahideen, the UN wants to keep both Najib and the Mujahideen leaders out of it. In other words, Najib arid the Mujahideen leaders are sending their representatives to the talks.
    This formula is ambiguous and complicated. Small and big groups have been asked to present a list of the people whom they want to see in the gathering. It is not clear in what proportion each side will be represented in the proposed gathering; what the procedure for reaching decisions is and how these decisions are implemented.
    It seems that the UN has paid more attention to external factors of the conflict than its internal factors. It has been assumed that support of the outside countries to the peace plan will leave the Mujahideen with no choice but to accept it Future developments will show that this assumption is highly exaggerated.
    We are a witness to some activities aimed at undermining the importance of the Mujahideen parties. Holding talks with minor groups and paying too much attention to individuals living in exile might give the impression that most of the parties support the UN plan in its current form, but when it comes to the implementation of the decisions what actually matters is the strength of the groups inside the country. Therefore, the architects of the UN plan must not be misled by the number of groups, many of which are made for the peace talks.
    Lip service to the UN plan by the Kabul regime is aimed at driving a wedge between the Mujahideen and neighboring countries friendly to the Mujahideen and dividing the Mujahideen .on "fundamentalist" and "moderate" lines. The Mujahideen and brotherly countries of Pakistan and Iran should watch carefully so that the enemy designs do not succeed.
  . While Jami'at supports the UN peace efforts, it has asked the UN envoy to clarify the ambiguous points of the plan before participating in the process. Jami'at strongly feels the need for participation of all Mujahideen groups in the peace process and believes that leaving out the effective Mujahideen parties will not bring peace and stability in Afghanistan.
    We have been witness to a malicious campaign against the Mujahideen leaders accusing them to be indifferent to the suffering of Afghans. Jehad is also is being labeled as "war for gaining personal power". Jami'at rejects these unfair and unjust accusations. No foreign country or officer of the UN can claim to be more concerned about the future of Afghanistan and sufferings its people than the Mujahideen and their leaders. The war to depose Najib is Jehad. lie was brought to power by Soviet troops and is responsible for killing and torturing of thousands of Afghans as the head of KHAD. Aimed struggle against Najib is a continuation of liberation war against Soviets.
Russian mines continue to kill Afghans
    Mines and unexploded shells and bombs have killed 200,000 people during the 13 years of war in Afghanistan, a United Nations report says.
    The report issued in Islamabad on January 30 by the UN Office Coordinating Humanitarian and Economic Aid to Afghanistan (UNOCA) said millions of mines remained a "horrifying hazard" to Afghans.
    The UN estimates more than a million people were killed and two million were disabled in the Afghan conflict
    The UNOCA report quoted a Swedish agricultural survey as saying mines had killed 500,000 farm animals and destroyed 2,000 vehicles in Afghanistan.
    The United Nations has organized mine clearance in Afghanistan since 1989 to facilitate the return of about rive million war refugees living in neighboring Pakistan and Iran.
    UNOCA said surveys in the three eastern provinces of Kunar, Logar and Paktia suggested that 20 percent of disabled people were victims of mines or unexploded shells.
    The UN Secretary General’s Personal Representative in Afghanistan and Pakistan has appealed to all potential donor countries to make generous contributions to mine clearance in Afghanistan.
    Sevan said defusing millions of mines scattered over the country is a formidable task but Afghans themselves have the ability to do it It is, however, a tragedy that the resources to fund this operation are limited, he added. _____________________
Afghan arts show
    21st March-12th April 1992
    In March 1992 World Circuit Arts will be presenting an Afghan Arts Festival, the first of its kind, in association with the Afghan associations in London, which aims to demonstrate how the arts of a refugee people can survive and nourish the community; to introduce Afghan arts and culture to Londoners as a whole; to provide educational opportunities for school children and to celebrate the Afghan New Year in the traditional manner.
    Highlights will include a conceit by Aziz Herawi; three exhibitions (photography, embroidery and artefacts); public workshops on design, cookery, music and embroidery.
AFGHANews Vol8, No 4, February 15,1992, page ©
Keshtmand wounded by gumman in Kabul
     Former Afghan prime minister Sultan Ali Keshtmand was shot and wounded on February 7 by a gunman outside a mosque in Kabul, AFP reported quoting the Watan Party sources.
     A lone gunman fired three shots at Keshtmand at around 3 pm when he was leaving a mosque after attending a funeral service. The attacker escaped.
     Keshtmand was taken to the Red Crescent hospital and then transferred to the military hospital.
     Watan Party sources said no motive had been established for the attack. But diplomatic sources said the former prime minister had recently been critical of the government's attitude towards Afghanistan’s minority communities.
     Keshtmand, belonging to Hazara minority group, became prime minister under former president Babrak Karmal.
     A founder of the former Communist People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA), Keshtmand resigned from the Watan Party, successor to the PDPA, last year.
     Keshtmand and Karmal returned from Moscow last year after spending some years in exile.
     Keshtmand was later taken to Moscow for treatment French government refused to issue visa for Keshtmand to be treated in France. A spokesman of the foreign ministry said in Paris that Keshtmand was being treated somewhere else so he will not be issued visa.
   . Admission to Palestinian leader George Habash to be treated in France triggered a political scandal which resulted in the resignation of several ranking officials of French government While the issue of Habash's visit had not come to an end, French government did not want to take any risk by allowing Keshtmand, a controversial figure, to be treated in France.
     Two years ago, a daughter of Najib, the head of the Kabul regime, was allowed to be treated in France.
     About 100 men demonstrated in front of the military hospital where Keshtmand was being treated. They raised slogans in support of equality of all nationalities.
     They also asked the shopkeepers in Kabul, most of whom are Hazaras, to close their shops in protest to attack on Keshtmand. This call was generally ignored.
     One day before the attack, Keshtmand had asked the UN to make sure that the right of the minorities are preserved in the system that emerges from the UN-sponsored peace process.
     Many Hazaras have doubts about sincerity of Keshtmand's political stand in support of Hazaras because of his role in the government during the occupation of Afghanistan by the Red Army and membership of the PAPA.
     A newspaper published by Harrakat-i-Islami of Mohsini, ridiculing Keshtmand's statements in defense of Hazaras, wrote that he could not represent Hazaras. The paper called him 'a traitor who tries to deceive people’.
Jalalabad road still closed
    Jalalabad-Torkham road which was opened by the Mujahideen on February 4 was | closed after two days. The j Mujahideen allowed some trucks, belonging to the tribal | traders, to cross the border.
    A Mujahideen source said it was a temporary measure ar-| ranged between the local Mujahideen and tribal traders. The Mujahideen rejected the me-' dia report of opening the road | permanently.
    The transit road connecting I Peshawar with the eastern city of I Jalalabad was blocked by the [Mujahideen in 1989. Pakistan tribesmen involved in cross-border trade al-
 ; The head of the Kabul regime has declared 35'.pf February, the day Sdwet,. troops was' *         f         "Natiqnal
 Salvation If will be a holiday
                                                                                                   | The Kabul regime has $mfted
                                                                                                 death sentence ip. #ve inte&' tipnai murder, explosion . involving
                                                                                                                              life
                                                                                                 and crimes which.Fesult in occupation
 bf part.                i foreign
 force. <Commehri Based on this item of the taw¥;:P^|'leaders _ should ;|e
 iton M Afghanistan by the Soviet troops for one decade.}. Regime radio
 said
 sentence,'.' ieforc'.: .^.v.,ainendg«nt, were93* I . |li||||l|li||«I|
  >4* v,y/£«## r ' 'Zi\
                                                                                                ; Hap Abdul Qa^^aeomrnan^r, belonging to Kezfc Islam! Kh^Bs, has'
                                                                                                               ftebtohf* of
Commander Abddf Haq.

 " y=.£.                            V? I
                                                                                                                               Karf^i ..coiinsellor at
 'sad oh:iEai|iiy':9
 mim? >y:
 ways put pressure on the Mujahideen to leave the road open. The Mujahideen did not open the road because the Kabul regime would have benefit from trade through it. The Mujahideen, however, allowed cross-border trade through secondary roads which pass through the areas controlled by the Mujahideen.
     Some people saw opening of Jalalabad road as a sign of change in Pakistan's Afghan policy. The Kabul regime welcomed the move.
     Traders take foodstuff from Pakistan to Afghanistan and bring Russian and Japanese goods through Kabul to the market in Pakistan. Some of these tribesmen have trade arrangement with the Kabul regime.
  i$i
  Afghanistan (HIA) by securing 99.9
                                                                                                                                               /of
food will be needed during 1992 for 33 ^million ; Afghan               »
   refugee-feeding bperariCHte from the JVorld Food Prograrn|?r/              y'4"'
         :                  ;-v::
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
    Sayyed Asrar, 40, is the public prosecutor of the Supervisory Council in Farkhar and Worsaj districts. He has also served as the head of financial committee and military commander of Worsaj valley.
    Sayyed Asrar was a teacher in Worsaj when the communist coup of 1978 took place. Being a known member of the Islamic Movement, he was imprisoned three months after the April coup. He and ten other religious figures and notables of Farkhar and Worsaj were rounded up and sent to Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar. Most of them were killed by the communist regime but Sayyed Asrar was released after one year (when Taraki was killed by Amin, he ordered release of some prisoners). Sayyed returned to Worsaj and started to work as a teacher in Meyan Shahr village.
    Two months after his release, the Mujahideen liberated Worsaj and appointed Sayyed Asrar as the head of the financial committee. Within two months, the Mujahideen liberated Farkhar and Taliqan. Sayyed Asrar and other Mujahideen of Worsaj took active part in the liberation of Farkhar.
    The communist regime recaptured Taliqan and Farkhar but Worsaj remained in control of the Mujahideen. Soviet invasion of December 27, 1979 brought no change in the situation in Worsaj. Except for occasional aerial bombing, Soviets never attacked Worsaj.
    Sayyed came to Peshawar in the spring of 1980. He returned to Worsaj with a group of Mujahideen headed by Qazi Islamuddin. They were given some guns by Jami'at. Qazi Islamuddin acted as the provincial head of Takhar at that time. Qazi failed to convince the Mujahideen of Ishkamish to work under a united command and the weapons brought from Peshawar were distributed. The Mujahideen of Worsaj who had heard about the successful campaign of Commander Masood against the Soviets in the Panjshir contacted him. They asked Masood to organize them. In 1983 Sayyed Asrar went to Panjshir, met with Masood and ■ returned with some guns.
    When the Supervisory Council was formed, reorganization work started in Worsaj and Farkhar. Masood sent
 Lieutenant Dad-i-Allah to train the Mujahideen in Worsaj and organize their bases. After a period of uncertainty and internal tension , Worsaj was reorganized and the security in the valley improved. At this time, Sayyed served as the commander of one of the two side-vallies of Worsaj.
     When Masood visited Worsaj in 1984, he turned it into a base. Sayyed Asrar was appointed the public prosecutor of Worsaj and1 Farkhar.
     Sayyed Asrar is an admirer of Masood because his work brought not only security to Worsaj but also prosperity. Before the war three trucks operated in Worsaj. These trucks were owned by a local influential person, Eshan-i-Nabi, who had ties with the forma- king. (Eshan-i-Nabi and his two sons were captured and killed by the communist regime). The people of the valley now own 66 trucks.
     The council repaired or extended the roads in Worsaj and a hospital was built in the valley. Before the war, there was no market in Worsaj except for a few shops in each village. Now, Worsaj has more than 100 shops and restaurants.
     Sayyed Asrar joined the Islamic Movement when he was a student in Abu Hanifa school in Kabul. Demonstration by Ulamas against the government of the former king in 1970 coincided with Sayyed Asrar's arrival in Kabul to attend the school. This movement which was suppressed by the police of the king had an important impact on non-communist young students of schools and colleges. They saw it as un-Islamic move by government to protect communists. The Islamic Movement gained considerable strength after the incident. In fall of that
 year, the Islamic Movement staged its independent demonstration. Sayyed Asrar was affected by these developments and began to participate in political activities. Attending demonstrations, paying membership fee, distribution of Islamic literature and debates in defense of Islam against alien ideologies formed the main activities of the students belonging to the Islamic Movement
     He finished Abu Hanifa School in 1977 and began to work as a teacher in the secondary school of Worsaj. He tried to encourage the students to work for Islam. He also gave speeches in mosques highlighting the problems of the society, criticizing the government and proposing Islamic solutions to them. He became known as an Tkhwani' (member of Brotherhood). The influential local people who always defend the ruling system opposed him but they could not do much to stop him because he was promoting Islam and because President Daud's rule had weakened the position of these people. When the communists took power in a bloody coup and began purging their potential enemies, Sayyed Asrar was arrested and sent to jail in Taliqan.
     It was natural for Sayyed Asrar to become a promoter of Islam because he was bom in a religious family and had studied Islamic subjects before coming in contact with alien ideologies.
     Sayyed was bom in Khanaqa, a village in Worsaj. His father, Sayyed Jalal worked as a mason and a farmer.
     Sayyed is the decedent of a spiritual leader of Naqshbandi sufi brotherhood, Sayyed Khalil Badakhshi, who lived 500 years ago. A mosque built by Sayyed Khalil is still in good shape. Late Prof. Khalili visited the mosque once and discovered the year in which the mosque was built.
     Sayyed Asrar went to' the mosque school of his village and at the age of seven, he attended the primary school of Worsaj and continued learning religious books from his uncle, Mawlawi Sayyed Mirza. Sayyed Asrar has three brothers, one of whom is a Mujahid of the Islamic Army of the Supervisory Council and two others are farmers. He is married and has four children.
     He is currently visting Peshwar for medical treatment and will return to Worsaj when the northern route is opened in the Spring.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15,1992, page O
Mujahideen leaders attend Revolution Day ceremony
     The General Consulate of the Islamic Republic of Iran celebrated 13 th anniversary of the Islamic revolution in Peshawar on February 9.
     Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader. Prof. Mujaddidi, the AIG president, and a number of other prominent Afghan figures attended the function held in Peshawar.
     Addressing the meeting. Prof. Rabbani said Iran supported Jehad in the past and there was no reason to justify any change in its position on the issue.
     Jami'at leader hoped that the rumors about the changes in the positions of Pakistan and Iran are not true and they continue to support the Mujahideen until the formation of an slamic government in Afghanistan.
     Praising the support of Iran and Pakistan for the Mujahideen, Prof. Mujaddidi said these two countries gave all sorts of support to the Afghan people in the past 13 years. He request horn Iranians and Paksitanis to leave Afghanistan for Afghans.
     He objected to revolutionary songs sung by Afghan students in which they described Imam Khomeini as their leader. He also commented on the
 badges worn by the Afghan students having pictures of lamam Khomeini and Sayyed Ali Khamenei and asked his hosts whether the government of Iran would allow Iranian students to wear badges with picture of Prof. Rabbani or other Afghan leaders. He also enquired whether Iran would allow Iranian students to raise slogans in support of Afghan leaders.
     Mujaddidi said: "1 was happy when I saw that Iran has opened a school which teaches Islam to our children, but I was sad that they were being trained as Iranians.1’
     Iranian Consul tried to cool down Mujaddidi by arguing that Muslims are <me whether they are Iranians, Afghans or Pakistanis. He told Mujaddidi that he would attend the victory celebrations of Afghan Mujahideen wearing a badge with Mujaddidi’s picture.
     The Afghan students who sang revolutionary songs belonged to a school run by the Iranian Consulate in Peshawar. Iranian students also study at this school where the teachers are Iranian and medium of instruction is Persian. Prof. Mujaddidi's remarks has made many Afghans who are worried about outside influence very happy.
France helps Najibullah to communicate better
    An automatic telex system began operation in Kabul last month. The system was built by a French private company.
    The company is also negotiating with Kabul about establishment of radio communication between Kabul and the provinces.
    Hie Kabul regime is planning to establish a ground station for satellite communication with the help of the same company. The station will connect Kabul with rest of the world.
    The Kabul regime is seeking the
                                            'Moscow tells Kabul: ^ "Free eduction over"
    Afghans studying in Russia have been asked to pay their own expenses in hard currency if they want to continue their studies
    In the past, their expenditures were paid by the government of the former Soviet Union. Around 7,500 Afghan students are studying in the Commonwealth of Independent .States.
 help of a French private airline in reorganization and development of Aryana Afghan Airlines.
     Aryana is seeking permission for landing of its planes in Paris. At the moment, it operates only to Prague and Moscow. Flight of Aryana planes was band to Western Europe when the Kabul regime cooperated with hijackers of a Pakistani plane during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
     A British private firm repaired two Boing -727 planes of the regime recently. One of the planes returned to Kabul with a consignment of passports printed in England.
     France was the first Western country to reopen its embassy in Kabul. Western countries closed their embassies in Kabul for security reason days before the withdrawal of Soviet troops in 1989. The Mujahideen strongly criticized reopening of the French embassy and saw it as political favor to the Kabul regime. Narjib visited France in 1990 to take part in a UN-sponsored conference. He was interviewed by French TV and papers.
News of the Battlefields
                                          From page (2)
troops in Shahrak District on January 11, Commander Lai Mohammad reported. The Mujahideen captured four enemy soldiers during this encounter.
                                    Kandahar Province
   •The Mujahideen killed six enemy soldiers and wounded many in an attack in Mard Qala area on January 31, Commander Agha Gul reported. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
   •Six enemy troops woe killed and three were injured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into the positions of the regime troops in Herat Darwaza district of the city of Kandahar on January 23, Commander Agha Gul reported.
   •The Mujahideen of Jami’at captured six regime troops and seized three Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU-1 machinegun and one RFG rocket launcher when they attacked an enemy security post in Sufi area of Arghandab District on January 29, Commander Naqibullah reported. The post fall to the Mujahideen.
   •Five regime troops woe killed, three were injured and one artillery piece was destroyed when the Mujahideen of Jami’at attacked an ene my post in Naseran, near Kandahar Airport, on February 18, Commander Feda Mohammad reported.
Baghlan Province
   Shamsuddin, a militia commander and 16 of his men defected to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Hasan Tal on February 10, Commander Haqjo re ported. They were stationed near the old city of Baghlan. Tension between militiamen was the reason behind the defection.
Airlift continues
   Iranian envoy in the United Nations Kamal Kharazi met with the UN Secretary-Genera Boutros Ghali on February 14 and discussed with him the Afghan issue.
   Kharazi told Ghali that Iran had sent a total of 22 planeloads of medicine food and clothes to the needy people of Afghanistan. Two planes landed in Kabul while the remaining were sent to the central pari of Afghanistan.
                                          AFGHANews Vol 8, No 4, February 15, 1992, page ©
 Militia forces challange Najibullah's authority
    The Kabul regime has been facing Foreign correspondents based in rebellion of major militia forces and Kabul have confirmed the Mujahideen some units of the army close to the report of a major crises along the Soviet border since January 13. So far, northern border, efforts to defuse the tension have   Rasool was the former chief of the
 failed.                          notorious Pul-i-Charkhi prison during
   * The crises began when Najib or- the rule of former president Hafizullah dered replacement of the commander Amin, who was killed in the 1979 of Hayratan garrison, General Moomen Soviet invasion, from Andarab District, Baghlan       Diplomatic sources in Kabul has
 Province, by Rasool Bey Khuda, an of- described the situation as extremely Freer from Kandahar. General Moomen delicate as disturbances in Hayratan refused to comply with the order. could affect food prices in Kabul and
    Najib was worried about the grow- because ethnic tensions could, as they ing influence of some officers within have in the past, spill over into the the army whose loyalty to him were Afghan military and factionalised uncertain. He wanted to replace them Watan Party.
 with more loyal officers. It is said that Although no major clash has taken General Moomen's distribution of place, the Mujahideen commanders in weapons among militia groups without the area have reported small-scale permission of Kabul prompted the or- fighting between units of 18th army di-der of his transfer.              vision and militias of Dostom in Balkh
    Hayratan is the only land outlet for and Jawzjan provinces, the regime to the outside world. The Mujahideen also have reported "Friendship Bridge" on the Amu river that the road between Hayratan and connects the town with the former Mazar remained closed since the start Soviet Union.                     of drama.
    After rebellion, Moomen contact- They have reported that the mili-ed Rashid Dostom and Sayyed Kayan, lias of Dostom and Kayan have contact-the heads of two powerful militia ed the local Mujahideen to seek then-groups in the north. They announced support in case tension turns into a ma-their support to General Moomen. Very jor armed clash, quickly the crises took the form a lin- Informed sources among the guistic issue ~ non-Pushtoons against Mujahideen say that the crises in Pushtoons. It is said that the local mili- Hayratan is like the tip of an iceberg, tias and officers hated the rule of Juma Najib has no solution for the deep divi-Asek, the regime commander' of north- sions among different factions within. em theater. The two sides alerted their the regime. Ironically, Najib exploited forces and tension raised in Mazar-i- and even promoted these differences of Sharif and the neighboring provinces ethnic and linguistic nature in his war of Jawzjan, Kunduz and Baghlan,   for survival against the Mujahideen and
    Najib sent Asif Delawar to Balkh his internal rivals.
 Province to negotiate an end to the The Kabul regime has made no stand off between top militia com- statement about the crises in Hayratan mander Abdur Rashid Dostom and and no foreign journalist has been al-Colonel General Juma Asek         lowed to visit the area.
 +--------------------------------------------------------------N
 :"The story of victory" stuns Sydney j
 I In the middle of one of Sydeny’s hottest days, 22 February, more than 1201 I members of the Afghan community gathered in a hall in Auburn to watch "The | I Story of Victory" (Hadith-i-Fatah), the first ever documentary film made by | I the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan.                             I
 I The crowed cheered, was horrified and then wept as they witnessed the | I victorious liberation of Khwaja Ghar city by the Mujahideen, the barbaric re-1 I venge of the Kabul regime using air bombardment and SCUD missiles, the | I killing of civilians and destruction of cities and villages.   I
 1 More than 40 copies of the film were sold as video cassettes during the | I show in Sydney and Melbourne. Earlier the film was shown in Melbourne's | I Nobel Park.                                                    |
 I The film show in both cities was organized by the representation of| I Jami'at Islami Afghanistan in Australia.                       |
 lv...........................................................   — '
 CBR builds Bang! road
    Consultant Bureau for Reconstruction (CBR), a private organization, has almost completed the repair work of Bangi sub-District road, Takhar Province, Engineer Kamaluddin, the director of CBR, reported.
    The work on 25 kilometer road connecting Bangi to Kunduz-Kishm highway is at its final stages, he said. Construction of three culverts on the road has been completed.
    An interesting point about this project is the use of machinery captured in Khwaja Ghar in the repair work. The Mujahideen had captured the machinery of the Kookcha Project, an abandoned agricultural project initiated with the technical assistance from Soviet Union. Some of these machines are in working conditions, others, numbering more than 60, need repair and spare parts.
    Commander Masood agreed to let the CBR make use of the captured machinery in reconstruction projects in the area. The following machinery were used in the repair of Bangi road:
    Dump trucks.........8
    Bulldozer...........1
    Scraper.............1
    Excavators......... 2
    CBR and the Supervisory Council are involved in negotiations with some donor agencies for the repair of the remaining machines. If repaired, their use will speed up the repair of roads damaged by the war.
    Repair of Bangi road is the first phase of Bangi-Khost road which is about 110 kilometers long. This road will connect Khost District, Baghlan Province, to the main road in the North. Khost had no road before the Soviet invasion. The Supervisory Council built a road from EShkamish, Takhar Province, to Khost, usable only by jeeps.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan