Vol 8, No 5
March 1,1992
UN wheat
feeds Kabul
soldiers
    The Kabul regime has refused to release the UN wheat stored in the regime’s silo to be distributed among the needy people in Kabul, an informed source reported.
    According to the source, UN had stored large quantities of wheat in the regime's silo in Kabul. Some of the wheat was intended to feed pregnant women, children and old people, considered vulnerable groups, during the harsh winter of Kabul.
    When the UN officials demanded the release of stored wheat, regime refused to release wheat on the ground that it was saved for priority purposes -to feed the security forces of the regime.
    The incident proves a point raised by the Mujahideen that the Kabul regime would use UN material assistance for military and political purposes.
 Fourth Shia conference
    The Fourth Conference of the Afghan Shia Community has ended in Teheran. The conference was organized jointly by the Afghan Affairs office of the spiritual leader of Iran, and the Afghan section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The conference supported the UN five-point plan for solution of the Afghan problem. Participants of the conference showed readiness to take part in the UN sponsored gathering but they made it clear that they will not talk to the representa tive of the Kabul regime.
    Speaking in one of the sessions of the conference, Prof. Rabbani emphasized the need for joint action of all the Mujahideen groups and warned against divisions on ethnic and religious lines.
Mujahideen, Russians discuss Moscow deal implementation
     The joint commission of the Mujahideen and Russians met for the first time on February 13 in Islamabad to discussed the implementation of the agreement reached between the two sides in Moscow last November.
     Prof. Rabbani led the Mujahideen delegation and the Russian delegation was headed by Andronov, a member of the Russian parliament and advisor to the Vice President Rutskoi. A representative of Uzbekistan also attended the talks.            *
     Prof. Rabbani criticized Uzbekistan for sending of arms, ammunition and fuel to the Kabul regime. The Russian and Uzbek delegates denied the allegation.
     Andronov said that a total of 60 Russia military advisors were in Kabul of whom 50 had already left Afghanistan and the remaining 10 will be withdrawn soon. The Mujahideen and Western sources estimated the number of Soviet military advisors around 300 who were stationed in Kabul, Mazar and Kunduz.
     During the meeting, the Mujahideen insisted on the need for a transitional Islamic government, on which both sides agreed in Moscow.
WFP drops food in ‘ central Afghanistan
    UN World Food Program (WFP) said on February 19 that it would begin air-dropping 200 tons of food this week into central Afghanistan.
    The Rome-based WFP said bad roads and snow had cut off food supply routes. The airdrops will back up efforts by Iran, which has been dropping food into the region since last November, said WFP.
    Iran has sent 20 plane-loads of food to Hazarajat and to planes to Kabul. Hazrarajat is Shia-dominated area.
 Andronov told that when the Mujahideen succeeded to establish such a government in Kabul, Russia will recognize it.-
     Prof. Rabbani announced the release of three Soviet POWs in line with agreement reached in Moscow. The fathers of the three prisoners had came to Islamabad to take their sons with them .The three released prisoners were Mohammad Qasim, Rustam Beg and Mohammad Naser.
     Mohammad Naser returned to Uzbekistan, but the two others -Mohammad Qasim and Rustam Beg refused to return. They said they will remain with the Mujahideen until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
     Efforts by Mikhail Karpov, a diplomat of Russian Embassy in Islamabad, and their fathers to persuade the two prisoners to return home did not succeed.
     The Mujahideen had told Russians they will give prisoners freedom of choice and will not return them by force.
     The two sides could not agree on a joint communique. It seemed that the Russians were only interested in the release of their prisoners, while the Mujahideen wanted implementation of the whole agreement reached in Moscow.
     The spokesman of the Afzali Front, which had signed a deal for ex change of prisoners with the Russians, told AFGHANews that Russia failed to fulfill their promise to secure the release of the remaining five Mujahideen prisoners from Kabul. The Russians claim that the prisoners whom the Mujahideen wanted to be released could not be traced. The prisoners released in the deal say that they saw them in jail before they were released.
     Dr. Felix Ermacora, the UN reporter on human rights, has been informed of the issue.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1,1992, page @

Battlefields
Badghis Province
    •The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked security posts outside Qala-i-Naw, the provincial capital, on February 17. As a result seven posts were destroyed, 27 soldiers were killed and 52 troops, including seven officers, were captured. The Mujahideen seized the following kit
• Mortars: 3 •ZPU-1.3
■ DShK: 1
• Kalashnikov rifles: 136
• T.T pistols: 9
■ Boxes of hand-grenades: 25 Boxes of Anti personnel mines: 15 Bags of rice: 150
 Tins of ghee: 250 Beds: 180 Three Mujahideen were killed and five wounded.
    ■ Ten regime militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Kushk-i-Kohna sub-district on February 9 when the Mujahideen launched an attack against them. The enemy suffered heavy casualties. Two Mujahideen were killed and 15 were injured.
Herat Province
    •The Mujahideen of the Afzali Front destroyed one tank and one jeep, seized two trucks, 15 Kalashnikov rifles, one Goryunov machinegun and captured 25 enemy soldiers when they attacked an enemy convoy on Herat-Torghondi road on February 18.
     •The Mujahideen of Jami'at captured 58 soldiers when they attacked enemy positions east of Enjeel District on February 14.
 Samangan Province
     •The Mujahideen of Harakat Inqilab (Mohammadi) captured 10 regime security posts in Kholm District on February 22, Hindukush News Agency reported.
    Fighting continued as this report was filed. No information is available about casualties on either side.
 Parwan Province
    Four tanks were destroyed and ten enemy troops, including a milita commander, were killed in Jangalbagh of Jabulseraj District on February 22. The fighting began when regime troops launched a counter attack on Mujahideen who had blocked the Salang Highway. The enemy troops were forced to retreat. In retaliation, Kabul planes bombed Mujahideen positions. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties in the attack. The road has been blocked by Mujahideen of Jami'ai's Supervisory Council.
 Kunduz Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami’at seized 11 Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU-1 machinegun, one RPG rocket launcher, one 76mm mortar, one Radio set and some ammunition when they attacked an enemy post on the Kunduz-Mazar road on February 25, Commander Arif Khan reported. The post was destroyed. The report was silent about casualties on both sides.
 Baghlan Province
    •In armed clashes between militiamen of Kayan and WAD forces in Baghlan city on February 25, 15 soldiers from both sides were injured and several were killed. Commander Mullah Shams reported.
     • Regime militiamen deprived re^ gime officials of their monthly salary when they looted a van inside the city of Baghlan, Commander Haqjo reported. The looted cash was payroll for Baghlan government officials.
  Balkh Province
                                                                              •Four enemy planes woe destroyed and a considerable number of
 regime troops woe killed or wounded when the Mujahideen of Jami'at fired ground-to-ground rockets into regime's air base in Mazar on February 22, Commander Alam Khan reported.
    In retaliation, the regime bombed Shadian and Zarang villages, killing and wounding scores of civilians. Many houses were also destroyed.
 Faryab Province
    And-Najib militiamen, headed by Rasul, took control of the center of Shereen Tagab District from pro-Najib troops on February 22, Mawlawi Yousuf reported. In dashes between the two sides, scores of men from both sides were killed or wounded.
 Paktia Province
    Around 47 armed soldiers have defected to the Mujahideen in Zurmat District, west of the city of Gardez, in the past two weeks, commander Saifurrahman of Harakat-i-Inqilab (Mansoor group) reported.
 Commander killed
    Azimullah, 23, a senior field commander of Ittehad-i-Islami of Prof. Sayyaf in Kama District of Nangarhar Province, was killed on February 22 outside his military center by an unidentified assassin, Ittehad Islami reported. The killer was immediately gunned down by the commander’s bodyguards.
    Azimullah had played an important role in the liberation of Kama in 1989.
 KGB still controls Tajikistan border
    The collapse of Soviet Union has escaped notice on the border between Tajikistan and Afghanistan.
    The Mujahideen have reported from Badakhshan that the border is still guarded by troops of the former Soviet Union, and even the Soviet flag still flies above the border posts.
    When Soviet guards were asked by Mujahideen border officers in Ishkashim , Badakhshan Province, why the flag of the former Soviet Union was not replaced by the flag of Tajikistan, they replied that they hac not received any orders from their superiors.
    There is no movement of people across the border. People on both sides of the border are from the same stock. They speak the same language and even have blood relations. The communist system prohibited contact between the two people. Any contact could be punished by three years of rigorous imprisonment
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
Mujahideen observe the 'Hoot' uprising
    The 12th anniversary of uprising of the people of Kabul against the Soviet invasion was commemorated in Peshawar and the liberated areas of Afghanistan.
    A big rally was organized in Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, by the Cultural Committee of the Supervisory Council. Speakers praised the sacrifices of the unarmed jeople in Kabul in defense of their aith and country.
    The people of Kabul launched a raaceful campaign against the Soviets and their puppets in winter of 1980. They began going to the rooftops each night and shouted Allah-u-Akbar (God is great). The people were encouraged by religious scholars to join the campaign.
    On February 22 (Hoot 3), 1980, a peaceful procession was taken out, in which students from colleges and schools also took pari. A large number of women and school girls took part in the demonstration. Regime troops, >acked and advised by the Soviets, opened fire on the demonstrators, killing at least 300 and wounding many more. Among those killed were a considerable number of girls. More than
 1,000 demonstrators were arrested. This day is called "Black Friday".
     The brutal suppression of the peaceful demonstration ended the nonviolent campaign. Since that time, only token political processions have been allowed in Kabul. To demonstrate so-called political pluralism, Najib last year allowed two processions by pro-Zahir Shah people, but the meetings were disrupted by plane-clothes policemen who claimed to be supporters of the Mujahideen.
     Some Mujahideen parties are studying the possibility of using civil unrest in Kabul as a weapon to topple the regime. They argue that this approach will prevent the massive bloodshed caused by a military offensive against Kabul. The Kabul regime claims it tolerates peaceful gatherings. The presence of the UN, foreign envoys and journalists might limit the regime's opportunities to crush peaceful gatherings.
     But keeping in mind the brutal nature of the government, those considering this means should not rule out a possibly violent reaction by the Kabul authorities against defenseless people.
Price rocketing worries Kabulis
     Prices of food and essential commodities have rocketed this winter, causing severe hardship in Kabul.
     The collapse of the Soviet Union has dealt a fiscal blow to the cash-strapped Kabul regime, which now has to trade in hard currency rather than barter with the new republics on its northern border.
     Civil servants, who normally benefit from food coupons providing free wheat, suger and tea, grumble because they have been offered only four months of free provisions.
     Prices began rising by almost IS percent in December following a sharp rise in the dollar's value.
     The dollar now fetches 1,250 Afghanis, after costing 1,800 Afghis at the beginning of 1992. The fall in dollar value, however, has not reduced the price of essensial commodities.
     Much of the bitterness steins from the discrepancy between pay and prices. On an average, a senior government officials gets 10,000 Afghanis a month - enough to buy five kilos of meat Not many can afford mutton, chicken or beef, which cost between
2,000 to 2,500 Afghanis a kilo, and increase of about 1,000 Afghanis since December.
     Beans cost 800 Afghanis a kilo, up from 350 Afghanis, while prices of cereals have gone up from 200 to 500 Afghanis a kilo.
     Garlic has shot up from 140 Afghanis to 11,140 a kilo, while a litre of kerosene costs 600 Afghanis.
 Tripartite contract enables regime to receive aviation fuel
     An informed source in Kabul has revealed that the Kabul regime is getting fuel,] including aviation fuel-in a tripartite deal involving the re- i gime, Turkmenistan and Iran.
     The source said the Soviet Union owed Iran some money which possibly was spent in projects in Tukmenistan. After the breakup of I the Soviet Union, Tukmenistan agreed to shoulder the debt. Instead] of paying cash, it was agreed that Turkmenistan would provide fuel to1 Kabul; and Kabul would then pay Iran.
     One month ago, a captured officer I of the regime told the Mujahideen that Iran was providing fuel to Kabul through Turkmenistan. It seems that he | was referring to this tripartite deal.
     The source said Turkmenistan sold | 2000 tons of jet fuel, as well as other fuel supplies, to the Kabul regime.
     The Kabul regime had entered into I similar arrangements with Kazkhstan [ and India. India gave tea to Kazakhstan and in return Kazakhstan is to give| wheat to Kabul.
     Sending fuel to Kabul is a viola-1 don of the agreement reached between the Mujahideen and the officials of the ] former Soviet Union in Moscow in November last year. The Soviet Union | had agreed to stop sending arms, ammunition and fuel used for military] purposes.
     The Kabul regime and I Tukmenistan have agreed to establish diplomatic relation and open their embassies in Kabul and Ashkhabad
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 5, March 1, 1992, page
  Editorial

Jami'at committed to unity of Afghanistan
    Some Mujahideen have expressed fear about growing ethnic and linguistic separatism among Afghans, and the involvement of foreign countries in support of these activities. They have indirectly accused Jami’at of involvement in these activities.
    Such concerns have been aired more often since the mutiny against Najib by militia forces in the North. Other developments also highlighted the issue: the Jami'at commanders’ inability to attend the Commander's Council in Jawar, Paktia, due to logistical problems; the formation of the Association of Cultural Cooperation, with the pariticipation of Mujahideen, Iran and Tajikistan, to help the revival of Islamic culture in Central Asia; and repeated warnings by Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy, that if his peace plan were rejected, Afghanistan would disintegrate along ethnic lines.
    Three parties could involve themselves in separatist activities: foreign countries, the Kabul regime and Mujahideen parties.
    Regarding the first, there is little point in idle speculation about in the intentions of foreign countries, our neighbors in particular, toward Afghan separatist movements. We can only keep in mind that if separatism among Afghans serves other countries' interests, there is no guarantee they will not promote them. But one should not forget that the partition of Afghanistan, or other turmoil based on ethnic and linguistic demands, will create problems which could easily spread throughout the region. Instability in Afghanistan will not serve the interests of any of our neighbors.
    If there is foreign involvement for any reason, Afghans will unite to oppose it, as they did against the Soviets. Foreign involvement will unify Afghans.
    Soviet policy during the occupation of Afghanistan and Najib's short-sighted policies have left bad feelings. The Soviet policy was to divide Afghanistan on ethnic lines, as they had divided Central Asia. Najib formed tribal battalions and used armed militias from certain areas against the people of other areas. The recent militia mutiny in the regime's northern theater is the result of years of conspiracy gone out of control.
    All the Mujahideen are trying to overthrow the Kabul regime and form an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Afghans have no history of separatist activities.
    But the Mujahideen have inherited some problems from the past which an Islamic government in Kabul must solve. Some policies of previous rulers, including Zahir Shah and Daud Khan, created inequities in the country's administrative structure. Past rulers engaged in regional, linguistic and religious discrimination. An Islamic government in Afghanistan will have to address these issues, correct mistakes and provide justice to all.
    The following are the major points of Jami'at policy towards the national unity and territorial integrity of Afghanistan:
    - Ideologically, Jami'at is opposed to racial, linguistic and sectarian groupings. Such actions divide the Islamic Umma and are considered sinful.
    •    Contrary Co the common perception, Jami'at is not a regional party. It has followers all over Afghanistan and its members come from all ethnic groups.
    •     In the areas it controls, Jami'at has treated people from all political parties and ethnic groups fairly. The Supervisory Council has set a good example in this respect, creating a potential model for the whole of Afghanistan.
    •     The idea of forming a federation between the North of Afghanistan and Central Asia has come from foreigners. Jami'at has strongly rejected these suggestions.
                              MT              To  Page (8)
    KHAK-I-AULEYA (Dust of the Saint) is the name of an interesting book about the journey of a young Polish journalist who visited Herat during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan.
    Radek Sikorski, a Polish dissident living in London, travelled with the Mujahideen of Jami'at to meet the legendary commander of Herat, Ismail Khan.
    The book is now translated from English into Persian by Abdul Ali Noor Ahrari, an Afghan writer, and published by Zawar Publishing Company, Iran.
    The translator has succeeded in presenting the book in easy language. Being a local man, he has not made the mistakes usually the translator make about names of people and places. This is one of the few books on Afghanistan which have been translated from other languages into Persian.
    Afghans, Iranians and the Tajiks of the former Soviet Union can benefit from the work of a young Pole who tries to be as objective as possible but does not try to hide his sympathy with the cause of Afghan resistance. The book tells the true story of Afghans struggle against the Soviet invaders and endless sufferings of its people subjected to scorched-earth policy of the Red Army. It sheds light chi the life of Ismail Khan , the great commander of Mujahideen whom he describes as 'a classical hero'.
    Afghan Jehad inspired Radek and many other Poles in the ranks of the Solidarity Movement to resist the tyranny of communism. Ironically, their success came much earlier than that of the Afghans.
    After the changes in Eastern Europe, Radek moved back to his country and is involved in supporting the democratic system in Poland.
    A picture taken by the author won the first prize of ’Wold Press Photo Contest 1988'. The photo was about a woman and two of her children buried inside their house in Kusk-i-Serwan of Herat when the Soviet jets bombed their house. The woman and children had died in setting position with thier hands towards the sky , as if they were praying.
    The photo was also displayed in the Soviet Union.
AFGHANews Vol8, NoS, March 1,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Amina Safi Afzali
     Amina Afzali is the head of the Muslim Sisters' Organization (MSO), which works for the welfare of Afghan refugee women and orphans in Iran.
     MSO was established in 1985. Its head office is in Tarbet-i-Jam, a border town in Iran's Khurasan province. It has branch offices in Mashhad, Taibad and Teheran.
     MSO has established 12 schools, in which a total of 3500 Afghan refugee children are taught by 98 teachers. They have also opened a school for girls in Ghoryan District, Herat.
     Amina has participated in three international seminars on Afghanistan. Two of these seminars were organized by the Foreign Ministry of Iran in Teheran. The Norwegian Committee for Afghanistan arranged the third, held in Islamabad, where she read a paper on the role of Afghan women in reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     MSO holds occasional public meetings, distributes Mujahideen literature , shows films on Jehad and carries out relief operations. Last year, MSO distributed relief goods, among 200 newly arrived refugees from Zindajan. It publishes a paper called Rah Rawan-i-Rah-i-Somayya. It has close contact with Afghan women's organizations based in Pakistan.
     MSO has opened classes where refugee girls are taught tailoring, embroidery and knitting. The purpose of these projects is to enable refugee families, especially those who have lost their menfolk in the war, to earn their living.
     Jami’at Islami, Shaheed Afzali Front, ISRA (an Arab relief organization) and the Norwegian Committee far Afghanistan all finance MSO projects.
     Amina Afzali is the widow of late Safiullah Afzali, the founder of the Afzali Front in Herat He was assassinated in 1988 by terrorists in Iran. The Iranian authorities captured the .assassins but they were later released.
     Amina came in contact with the Islamic Movement when she was a student of Mehria High School in Herat Hafizullah Afzali, her cousin, encouraged her to work for the cause of
 Islam. Hafizullah was a prominent member of die Islamic Movement and a student in the journalism department of the Faculty erf Literature at Kabul University. He lock part in the uprising of 1975 against President Daud in Panjshir and was martyred there.
      Amina played an active part in the Islamic Movement when she was a student in the Faculty of Science at Kabul University. A considerable number of girls from the university and other schools had joined the Islamic Movement
      Amina completed her studies in 1978 and became a teacher in the Mehria School in Herat After three months, she quit her jab because the school authorities wanted her to join the communist party. She married Safiullah Afzali, her cousin and college classmate.
      After leaving her job, Amina formed a secret organization to struggle against the communists. A handful of teachers and students joined. They distributed "night-letters" and Mujahideen literature in the city. When Karima, a member of this organization, was captured, other members went under ground or migrated to Iran. Karima was captured while trying to post a photo of Prof Rabbani, Jami'at Islami leader, on a wall in the city of Herat. She was sentenced to three years prison.
      In 1981 Amina became a refugee in ban, where she resumed her activities among the refugees. In 1985 she founded MSO. She performed Haj two years ago.
      She was bom 36 years ago in Shahr-i-Naw district of the city of Herat Her father, Haji Amanullah Notqi, a Tajik, was an official in the Ministry of Education. Haji Amanullah was from Qaysan, a village in Ghoryan District of Herat.
      Amina attended primary school in Herat and high school in Sultan Radhiya School in Mazar, where his father was posted. She finished the last year of school in Mehria High School in Herat.
      Eng. Farouq, a cousin of Amina and a representative of the Afzali Front in Peshawar, said that Amina's family has a long history of fighting for Islam and freedom. One of her grandfathers, Abdul Wahab, was martyred in fighting against Russians in Bukhara.
      Amina has three daughters.
IN BRIEF

 «*3r
AFGHANews Vol8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
     Dear Mohammad Es'haq:
     Thank you for sending the observations on my paper. I hope you will not mind if 1 copy them and circulate them to the workshop where I am presenting it 1 thought your comments and questions were very helpful. Thank you also for the New Years’ card. 1 know I say this every year, but maybe this year is the one when things will start to return to normal in Afghanistan. I am planning to go to Kabul and perhaps other parts of the country this summer. I may want to visit some areas controlled by the Supervisory Council, in which case I will ask for your assistance.
     Some of your comments are helpful in that they show how what I wrote can be misinterpreted. If my paper is published, I will change or clarify certain points.
     1 am not sure what you or the other Mujahideen leaders mean by help to Najib. Are you referring only to weapons and fuel for combat ( as in the November Moscow communique)? Or do you include food and fuel for other purposes? It is possible that if all forms of external aid to the Kabul government were stopped, it might fall apart 1 am not at sure that this would be a responsible thing to do, however. There are over two million human beings in Kabul city. They need a government that can provide them with some security and food. So far the Mujahideen, far various reasons, some of which are out of their-control, have not been able to provide an alternative. I am afraid of something happening like what is taking place in Somalia, where there is no government and several well-armed groups are fighting each other right inside the capital city. The main problems in Afghanistan (in my opinion as a non-Afghan and non-Muslim) is to form a unified political group capable of taking control of the government from the current regime, not making the Najib regime collapse. I know that Islamists do not like the political views of medieval jurists, but there was some truth in the statement of al-Turtushi that "60 years of zulm are better than one night of fitna
     I knew that Commander Masood had captured the border districts through fighting. I was told by a source in Washington that he mounted these attacks after some communications with the Soviet side which assured him that they would not intervene militarily to defeat him. According to my source, the Soviets appreciated the fact that Masood, unlike some other Mujahideen leaders , was keeping die war on the Afghan side of the border. They thought that he might be more effective in control-
 ling the border than either the militias or other Mujahideen. As you have reported, there is virtually no presence of die regular Afghan Army in the area. But I did not mean to imply that the Soviets gave Masood any active support, much less that they handed the posts over to him.
     On the composition of the SC: when I wrote that it had become a "de facto base for Tajik power," I did not mean to imply that it was an ethnically exclusive organization. As far as I know, the ethnic composition of SC reflects the ethnic composition of the population of the area. 1 understand that the police chief of Taliqan is a Pashtoon who belongs to Hizb-i- Island (Khalis). The late Qazi Islamuddin and other commanders in SC are Czbak. However, the majority of the membership of SC, like the majority of the people of the area, are Persian speaking Sunnis, who have come to be known as Tajiks. (I have the impression that this word is not very commonly used in die area). Under the previous Pashtoon-dominated Afghan governments, the people of this area did not have very powerful political organizations. They had village shu-ras, and sometimes the Sufi tariqas would help some leaders (like Habibullah II) organize the people. As a result of the organization of the SC, the mainly Tajik people of die area are now a force that any government in Kabul must recognize. I am sure that they will demand adequate representation in the future government, some degree of local self-government (which they now have — see below about federalism), and a fair division of national resources. AH of these things can be justified by reference to Islamic principles, which is the language die SC uses. The SC never openly speaks in ethnic terms, to my knowledge. Nevertheless, they are de facto ethnic demands, if only because that is how many Pashtoon political leaders react to them. I have had many opportunities to observe this reaction.
     However, I do consider my knowledge of the SC inadequate. Most of the material I have on it concerns military questions.
     I realize that the Jawzjan militia is only one organization and does not represent all Turkic speaking Afghans. Relations among ethnic groups seem to have been more difficult in Jawzjan than in most other regions. (The Jawzjan Uzbaks also supported Amir Habibullah II and drove out the Pashtoon khans at that time.) I should make dear that there are many different groups among die Turkic speakers.
     I was interested in your comments on Pashtoon militias on the Faryab-Jawzjan border area. As far as I know there were two major Pashtoon groups in the area before 1978; Ishaqzai nomads who made their winter camps in the area and went up to
 Ghor in die summer, and Nazarzai khans, who collaborated dosely with the government. I have heard that some of die Ishaqzai migrated first back to Kandahar and then to Baluchistan. Do you know if the Pashtoon militia come from one or both of these groups, or from some other group?
      When did the Council of Commanders propose a federal system? It was somewhat inaccurate for me to imply that the Council of Commanders had proposed a worked-out federal system. What I had in mind was point two of the communique of October 13, 1990, which calls for "establishment of nine administrative zones throughout the country and . . . plans for the elections of responsible administrators for each zone. These administrators will be elected by the commanders, religious leaders, and elders in each zone." As you know, since the time of Amir Abdul Rahman Khan all the administrators in Afghanistan have been appointed by the center, not elected by die local people they were administering. The governments always tried to weaken the people's local organizations such as shura and jirga and id replace them with a system controlled from Kabul. Furthermore, die "joint administrative center" proposed in point 4 of the communique is subject to the shura, composed of commanders who are local leaders. Thus the local administration is locally elected and the national administration is supervised by representatives of the regions. This is not a fully federal system because it does not provide for a formal division of responsibilities among the different levels. Furthermore, it was intended as a response to die actual wartime conditions in the country, not as a permanent plan for die future. The commanders also demanded an Islamic government, and most Islamists seem to think that an Islamic government has to be a very centralized one so as not to encourage divisions within the umma and the mellaL I think, though, as you point out yourself in the end of your .note, that history shows that actual conditions are more powerful than ideology in determining political developments. This is true for all human beings, whatever their religion.
      I am not sure what you mean by saying that my emphasis on "the fundamentalist factor and Arab involment is not well balanced." I notice that you do not claim anything I wrote on this is untrue, especially as some of it comes from AFGHANews. It is true, of course, that Arab involvement is declining and that it was mostly confined to one area of the country (the east). I have also heard that even some of the Afghan members of Jamaat al-Da'wa are unhappy with the Arab volunteers and want to have better relations with their fellow Mujahideen. Perhaps I should mention these facts in order to balance my account.
      It is true that I was pessimistic and perhaps could have been more positive. Partly this is because 1 was trying to convey to a group of people who are not aware of the dimensions of the tragedy of Afghanistan just how bad the situation is. I also fear that Mujahideen leaders whose whole experience of politics is fighting against the gov-
                                            AFGHANews Vol 8, No5, March 1,1992, page.©
 eminent do not fully realize the complexity of die task of running one. This is a problem that opposition politicians have all over the world (like Timmy Carter or Benazir Bhutto), but it is an even greater problem in Afghanistan. I tried to outline what I think will be some of the problems in my paper.
    Economic compulsion may place some limits on politicians - -1 would be interested to hear more what you mean by this. As for Islam, I am not sure. Of course Islam is in one sense the most powerful force in Afghan society today, because nearly everyone believes in it, and those who do not have to act as if they do. The problem is that for this belief to become politically effective requires a modem political organization. M awl ana Maududi wrote on this subject since the 1930s, and, according to your memoirs, this was also one of the main ideas of the Islamic movement in Afghanistan. But Islam means different things to different Muslims, so that there are many different Islamic political organizations, in which belief in Islam is mixed up with economic interest, ethnic grievances, and personal ambitions. After all, even the best Muslim is only a human being. A strong leader whom people really believed was a sincere Muslim could use this belief to great effect This leader would probably also have to be a Pashtoon who knew how to play both tribal and international games and had good relations with the other ethnic groups, based on Islam. I have in mind a modem version of Amir Dost Mohammad. I do not see any such leader today. Hence Islam is not yet effective as an unifying force at the national level.
   Barnett R. Rubin Associate Professor of Political Science Columbia University
 f--------------------------------*\
                                                                                                      Kabul regime releases Mujahideen prisoners
       The Kabul regime released nine prisoners of war - five Pakistanis and four Afghans - on February 11, at the UN's request, to promote peace and improve relations with Pakistan.
       They were given to Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy on Afghanistan, who has embarked on a peace mission to solve the Afghan conflict. Sevan handed them over to the 1CRC.
       Sevan appealed to all sides in the conflict to release all prisoners of war and political prisoners. He also called on those holding the prisoners to treat thein in accordance with international laws.
       The Pakistani prisoners were later flown to Peshawar by ICRC.
       Diplomats in Kabul described the release of the POWs as a publicity victory for Kabul.
       Commander Haqqanl released about 1,000 prisoners of war about one month ago. They were soldiers and officers captured In Khost last March.
Afghan Jehad still popular in France
   Mohammad Es’haq
     I was in Paris ai the beginning of February. Daud Mir, the representative of Jami’at in Fiance, arranged a number of meetings for me to speak about the situation in Afghanistan.
     I  was        interviewed by Guissou
 Jahangiri, an Iranian journalist, who works for International Courier, a journal which reviews articles published in other papers. She seemed familiar of the situation in Afghanistan.
     Radio France International interviewed me for background information. Many questions were asked about possible developments after the arms cutoff to the Mujahideen and the new policy of Pakistan.
     An Afghan invited me to visit Nante, a city in the west of France. Our host, Wahid Alim, proved to be extremely hospitable. He and his family had great admiration for field commanders such as Ahmad Shah Masood and Anwari. The family has two Afghan restaurants in the city. Through these restaurants, they play an important role in the introduction of Afghan culture.
     In Nante, I held a small preSs conference. West France newspaper published my interview. FR3, a local TV station, also showed a 30-minute program - - a small film shot by the Mujahideen along with my interview. It was good to refresh people's memory about Jehad.
     Jehad has made Afghanistan very famous in every comer of the world. This is the reason that Afghan restaurants and handicraft shops are becoming popular. Ironically, the Kabul regime and the traders connected to it are also benefiting from this popularity gained by the sacrifices of the Mujahideen.
      The most important part of the program was a dinner organized by the Jami'at office. More than 40 diplomats, aid workers, journalists, and other people involved in Afghanistan were invited. The meeting place was an Afghan restaurant close to the historic Paris mosque. 'The story of victory", a documentary film about the 1991 Mujahideen victories in the North of Afghanistan, was shown to the guests. Afghanistan was a subject of private discussion among the guests. People enjoyed the Afghan food and the film.
      Afghans living in exile need true information about the situation in their country. Their only source of information is the Western media, which is generally negative towards the Mujahideen. I advised Daud to send copies of the film to important Afghans living in the West to give them an idea about the real situation in Afghanistan. When I was in Paris, French papers wrote many articles about the role of "Afghans” in armed clashes with Algerian security forces. Many papers contacted the Jami’at office for comment Jami'at answer was that die problem in Algeria is the internal issue of Algerians. The situation deteriorated when
 the military Junta annulled the result of the elections that the Islamic Front was winning.
      Some Algerians might call themselves Afghans because Afghan Jehad against Soviets is a source of inspiration foT them.
 A few Algerians might have visited Afghanistan as journalists and aid workers People from other nationalities also used to visit Afghanistan for the same reason. This is the only connection between Afghans and the developments in Algeria.
      A French journalist whom I knew told me an interesting story. This journalist was bom in Kabul when his father worked in French Embassy. He learned Persian in Kabul and speaks the language very well. His fluent Persian surprised Najib when he interviewed him in Kabul. He has visited Panjshir, Logar and Herat and is fully aware of atrocities committed by the communists.
      When Najib visited France, he was brought to French TV (Second Channel) for an interview. The journalist was given the job of translating the question for Najib. He sat a room next to the studio. He could see Najib on the screen and Najib heard his translation through an earphone. When Najib was asked to comment on his national reconciliation policy, he started to give his usual speech that the people were rallying behind his government ... . Hearing these lies, the translator could not control himself and said to him: "Why do you lie? You are responsible for killing of thousands of people. Afghans hate you." Only Najib could hear these sentences. They had such an affect on Najib that he lost the thread of ‘his words and started to talk about things not relevant to the question. Those interviewing him witnessed his odd behavior but did not know what the reason was. The journalist told me he did not regret what he did. Najib deserved such treatment for die lies he was trying to pass on to the viewers he said/
      Jami'at's office in Paris has played an important role in informing people of devel opments in Afghanistan. The office was opened in 1983. Humayoun Tander was toe first head of the office. This office organized several visits of Prof. Rabbani France during one of which he was received by toe Prime Minster of France. This office also organized a tour of Prof. Rabbani to four countries of West Africa. The office hosted many commanders visiting France and was involved in providing training for young Mujahideen cameramen The office helped Western journalists to visit Afghanistan.
      The Paris office introduced the Afghan Jehad to South and Centra] America through contact with anti-communist groups in the area. These groups translated Jami’at publications, especially AFGHANews, into Spanish for distribution among people.
to
AFGHANews Vol8, No 5, March 1,1992, page ©
Cultural cooperation to revive Islamic tradition
    The     Mujahideen, Iran    and
 Tajikistan have announced formation of an association to cooperate in cultural fields. A decision in this regard was taken in Teheran in the meeting of the foreign ministers of Iran and Tajikistan and leaders of the Mujahideen.
    Prof. Rabbani and a leader of Wahdat     Party represented    the
 Mujahideen delegation, while Iran was represented by Foreign Minister Dr. Velayati and Tajikistan by Foreign Minster Qayoumzada.
    The purpose of the formation of the cultural association is to help
 Tajikistan and other Central Asian republics in their efforts to revive their
 Bonn moot postponed
    The      Bonn conference     on
 Afghanistan, sponsored by Willy Brandt, was postponed because the Mujahideen leaders declined to attend.
    The conference was to have been convened on January 27.
    Forty prominent Afghans, from among the Mujahideen, refugees living in the West and the Kabul regime were invited to attend the talks.
    A spokesman for Willy Brandt who visited Peshawar to persuade Mujahideen leaders to attend the talks said: "Convening of the conference to find a political solution to the Afghan issue is a sort of paying tribute to the Afghan people’s contribution to freedom of Eastern Europe and unification of Germany."
    All the Mujahideen leaders and some prominent Afghan refugees declined to attend the conference because of the participation of the regime.
 culture after seven decades of Soviet domination.
     Prof. Rabbani had gone to Iran to meet with the leaders of the Central Asian republics who had come to Teheran to take part in the summit of Economic Cooperation Organization, originally formed by Pakistan, Iran and Turkey. Since he failed to arrive on time, he was only able to meet with the leaders of Tajikistan.
     The head officer of the association will be in Tehran. It will try to revive the Arabic script in the newly liberated republics. The Russians replaced Arabic script in the republics with Cyrillic script - an attempt to separate the younger generation of these republics from their Islamic history and culture.
     Formation of the cultural association provoked criticism from some Mujahideen parties. They expressed fear that such gatherings would lead to the division of Afghanistan on linguistic and ethnic lines.
     Addressing these fears. Prof. Rabbani said the association was to bring closer the people of the region who speak different languages.
     He said that Jami'at believed the national unity of Afghanistan will not allow anybody to harm it. With vast membership among all ethnic groups and effective field commanders, Jami'at can play its due role in preserving the unity of the country. Prof. Rabbani said.
     Two other developments have contributed to the fears about ethnic divisions: uprising of militias against Najib and warnings by Benon Sevan that if his peace plan was not accepted Afghanistan would disintegrate.
  UN allows dogs to detect mines
     The US government and the United Nations will cooperate in the formation of an Afghan NGO that will use dogs to detect mines in Afghanistan, under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by US Ambassador Nicholas Platt and UN Envoy Benon Sevan on February 20.
     In June 1989, the US government initiated a program to test the feasibility of using dogs to detect mines. The US government program trained teams of dogs and dog handlers, and deployed the teams inside Afghanistan.
     Since the first deployment in October 1989, the program has been responsible for the detection of 903 antipersonnel mines, 360 anti-tank mines and 1,648 pieces of unexploded shells. It has made possible the clearing of almost 650,473 square meters of roads and 569,473 square meters of mine field. Airports in Urgun and Bamyan have been cleared.
     Under the MOU, Afghans working under the US government program will be organized into an independent agency similar to those supported by UNOCA.
     The US government will continue to finance the program for the next 18 months.
     Sadruddin Agha Khan, the former UN coordinator, was opposed to the use of dogs in mine detection operations because it might endanger their lives.
     He argued that innocent dogs should not be killed in a mess created by human beings.
  Editorial
                                                  Frompage(4)
     •Jami'at relations with neighboring countries are based on mutual respect and good-neighborly relations. Jami'at has always opposed foreign interference. Jami'at's top commanders have suffered much from their independent policies: It is no secret that Jami'at commanders have received new weapons a year and a half after Mujahideen of other parties. Some weapon systems never arrived.
     • Accusations that Jami'at is involved in regional and ethnic politicking are baseless. Jami'at will fight any move to divide Afghanistan. But only a just society can guarantee our unity and prosperity. Injustice leads to division and paves the way for outside interference.
     Allah is a witness to what we say.
i-----------------------— - ■----1
 Council shoots new films
   Opening ceremonies for the filming of Urooj (Ascent) were held in | Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, on February 23, Hindukush News Agency reported.
   The film will depict the struggle of Afghans against the Red Army. It | is written by Seddiqullah Burmak, a young artist, who also will direct it | Urooj will be ready by the end of the holy month of Ramadhan. Burmak, an actor for Afghan Films, defected to the Mujahideen in 1989. I
   His most successful work was a documentary film about the victories |
of the Mujahideen in the north in 1991. This film Hadis-i-Fath (The story
I
  of victory) was released about two months ago. The film has been shown in Peshawar, Paris, Sydney and many other countries. A western jour- I nalist even saw the film in Kabul! So far, the M1D1A office of the AIG | has sold 45 copies of this film.
Vol 8, No 6                                                           March 15,1992
                                                   •»
victories in the North
     As the Spring approaches, the Mujahideen score significant victories in the North where tension between militia forces and the Najib army still continue.
     The fresh victories include the liberation of Faizabad sub-District in Jawzjan, Daulatabad and Charkent districts in Balkh and Khom District in Samangan. The Mujahideen are exerting pressure on Mazar-i-Sharif and Aibak, the provincial capital of Samangad. Large quantities. of arms and ammunition, including heavy guns and tanks, have been seized from the regime forces. A large number of regime soldiers and officers have been taken prisoners. Hairatan-Kabul road, the lifeline of the Kabul regime, has been cut.
 against the Kabul ruler. To defuse the crises, Najib ordered transfer of Juma Asek, the commander of northern theater, but reappointed him to the same post after one week.
     The crises in Hairatan has provided a golden opportunity far the Mujahideen. Ahmad Shah Masood has proposed formation of a council from all Mujahideen parties to deal with the situation in north. Prof. Rabbani, Jami'at leader, has begun negotiations with other Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar to seek their support for Masood's proposal. Formation of the council, Masood believes, will help to coordinate military activities and end speculation about polarization of the people on ethnic lines.
     The Supervisory Council of Jami'at is leading the operations in which Mujahideen from other parties are taking part The Kabul regime is making use of indiscriminate aerial bombardments to slow down the Mujahideen advance.
     The Kabul regime has failed to find a solution to the crises in Hairatan. Since two months, militias belonging to Rashid Dostum and Sayyed Mansoor of Kayan have revolted
     Closure of Kabul-Haiiatan road has pushed the [vices of essential commodities high in Kabul,' adding to the misery of the ordinary people. Price hikes is a source of worry to Najib because he will not be able to provide the needs of its aimed forces and officials
     Shortage of aviation fuel has resulted in cancellation of civilian flights from Kabul to other parts of Afghanistan.
 Najib seeks Washington's help to] fight "Islamic fundamentalism" ■
      The head of the Kabul regime is seeking the US assistance to fight against fundamentalism, the New York Times reported on March 10.
      The newspaper wrote that Najib made an appeal to the United Stales to j help his country to become a bulwark against the spread of Islamic radicalism J in Central Asia, "We have.a common task, Afghanistan, the United States of America, and the civilized world, to launch a joint struggle against radical- * ism,” Najib said.                                                    *
      Sulaiman Laiq, the vice-president of Watan Party, was invited to speak at I the Colombia University.                                            *
      Laiq's visit was organized by Ashraf Ghani, an Afghan professor. In the I past, the Kabul regime president, prime minister and foreign minister had vis- I ited New York to attend the UN meetings.                            I
L -____________________________________________________    -  - - --J
Commanders review strategy against Najib
   A three-day seminar of Mujahideen commanders was convened in Teheran to discuss military situation in Afghanistan and the UN peace plan. In the seminar which began on March 2f commanders belonging to Hezb-i-Wahdat and some other groups attended.
   The commanders discussed ways of coordination of their military operations and rejected the possibility of ceasefire with die Kabul regime. The commanders give conditional support to the UN peace plan.
   Dr. Velayati and his deputy Besharity addressed the seminar. Velayati told the commanders that America was trying to prevent formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
   Mawlawi Mansoor, Qazi Amin and Mawlawi Mo'azen, die heads of three minor Mujahideen parties, based in Peshawar, also participated in the seminar.
Rabbani, Sharif discuss UN plan
   Jami'at leader Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani discussed issues related to the political solution of the Afghan problem with the Prime Minister of Pakistan Mohammad Nawaz: Sharif in Islamabad on March 11.
   Nawaz Sharif had earlier talked to Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and plans to meet with other Mujahideen leaders to persuade them to take part in the UN peace process. Pakistan has supported the UN'peace plan and has stopped channeling arms to the Mujahideeii.
    Prof. Rabbani also discussed ihe UN peace plan with the UN special envoy chi Afghanistan Benon Sevan in Islamabad on March 9. Rabbani expressed his inabiliy to provide the list of Afghan notables to attend the UN-sponsored assembly unless Sevan clearly spelled out the criteria for. selecting the participants and explained certain vague points of his formula.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
■gssSSfllSSaiBiiHieii_ _
:::::::::::::::•
 Front The Battlefields
Herat Province
    • Eight militiamen were killed, eight were injured and four were captured and 15 trucks, two tanks and a large quantity of ammunition, food and fertilizer were seized when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked a regime convoy, going from Tbrghundi to Helmand, in Khalalak area of Robat District on February 29, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    Only 20 vehicles succeeded to reach Herat, the rest were forced to return to Torghundi. The report adds that the regime militiamen took the dead bodies of their friends to the governor house in Herat and raised anti-Najib slogans.
    ■ The Mujahideen liberated six villages from the control of the regime in Zindajan District on March 10, Commander Ismail Khan reported.
    •The Mujahideen destroyed one tank and eight trucks when they attacked a regime convoy on Herat-Kandahar road on March 1. Bacha-i-Hakim, a notorious militia commander, and a number of his men were killed. The Herat-Kandahar road remained closed at least for one week.
    •The Mujahideen liberated four villages when they attacked the enemy positions in Kohsan District on February 23, Commander Ismail Khan reported, the Mujahideen captured 30 enemy troops and seized 33 heavy and tight weapons. A Mujahid was killed and eight were wounded in the fighting.
Baghlan Province
    Many enemy soldiers were killed or wounded, three security post were destroyed and two mortars, one PK ma-chinegun, six Kalashnikov rifles, and some ammunition were seized when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the security posts of the regime in Doshi District on February 28, Commander Haqjo reported.
 Badakhshan Province
    ■Eight Mujahideen who were on their way to attack regime positions around Faizabad, the provincial capital, were killed by avalanche on March 4, Commander Abdul Basir Khalid reported.
    •The Mujahideen killed eight enemy troops, injured some and seized one PK machinegun, one heavy machine-gun, 25 Kalashnikov rifles, one R-105 radio set and some ammunition from Dasht-i-Qorogh on March 5. The Mujahideen lost one of their fighters in the operation.
 Parwan Province
    •    The Mujahideen destroyed two tanks and three trucks and killed six soldiers when they attacked regime positions in Jangalbagh on March 4. Two Mujahideen were injured in the fighting.
    •   Thirteen militiamen of the regime woe killed, several others were injured and one tank and four trucks were destroyed when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the enemy position in Jangalbagh of Jabulseraj on Salang road on March 7, Dagarwal Ghulam Jailani reported.
    •   The Salang road which Remained closed since February 28 due to fighting was left open on March 8. Since the road block had caused the prices of food to rise adding to the hardship of common people in Kabul, Commander Masood ordered the Mujahideen to stop fighting and let the trucks carrying food reach the capital.
 Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen of Jami'at, NIFA of Pir Gailani and Ittihad of Prof. Sayyaf captured a regime army unit in Andkhoy District near the Russian border on March 6, Commander Arbab Hafiz reported.
    In two days of fighting, 13 enemy troops were killed, 40 were captured
 and 65 light and heavy weapons and some ammunition were seized.
      Mohammad Ayoub, the commander of the battalion and five other officers succeeded* to escape. One Mujahid was killed and four sustained injuries in the fighting.
 Kunduz Province
     The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked a unit of the regime army in Baluch area, on Kunduz-Shir&han Bander road, on March 3., kilting a number of enemy troops and capturing 13 soldiers and officers, Hindukush News Agency reported. The Mujahideen seized the following arms and ammunition:
 ■ Anti-aircraft gun (23 mm): 1
 • Mortar (T20mm): 1
 • Rocket launchers: 2
 • D-30 guns (122mm): 4
 ■ Kalashnikov rifles: 40
 • Radio sets: 2
 • Infantry fighting vehicle: 1
 • 70PP armored can 2.
 • Gun (76mm): 1
 • Trucks:3 v
 • A large quantity of ammunition
 Nangarhar Province
     Nine local traders were killed and many passengers were injured when the bus carrying them was attacked by regime militiamen in Dasht-i-Gamberi, on Laghman-Khewa road on March 2.
     Some days before the incident, the regime's militiamen attacked a truck loaded with goods belonging to the local traders in Khewa District and set it on fire.
 Kandahar Province
     ■ Two military officers were killed when the Mujahideen attacked the head quarters of Division No. 15 with heavy weapons on March 9, Commander Lai Jan reported.
     •The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked the regime position with heavy weapons in the city of Kandahar on March 4, destroying one anti-aircraft gun and killing all the personnel of the gun. Commander Feda Mohammad reported.
     •The Mujahideen captured seven enemy soldiers, killed 14 , seized 20 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, and one RPG rocket launcher and destroyed two trucks in Kabul Darwaza area of the city of Kandahar on March 5, Commander Wali Jan reported.The commander of the post collaborated with the Mujahideen.
     •Six enemy posts were capturec
                                                                                                            To page (8)
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
The 14th anniversary of Herat uprising honored
    The 14th anniversary of the uprising of the people of Herat against the communist rule was commemorated in Peshawar on March 14.
    Jami'at organized a great meeting in its headquarter, outside Peshawar city, to honor the memory of more than 20,000 people fell martyrs in the uprising against communist regime on March 14,1978.
    The army garrison in Herat joined the people to oppose the rule of communists. The communist regime sent troops from Kandahar and heavily bombed the city using jets. The uprising ended in a blood bath.
    Commander Ismail Khan and his
 deputy Allauddin Khan are from the army officers stationed in Herat who chose to join the people instead fighting against them.
     Prof. Rabbani paid rich tributes to the people of Herat for their heroic resistance against the Soviet invaders and the puppet regime. The uprising was a symbol of unity of Afghans in which the people belonging to different walks of life and ethnic groups fought under the banner of Islam, he said.
     Several thousand Mujahideen, commanders and refugees, belong to different Mujahideen parties, attended the meeting.
Agha Khan plans to help Ismailis in Central Asia
     Karim Agha Khan, the spiritual leader of Ismailis, wants to build a secretariat in Chitral, Pakistan, to revive contact with his followers in Central Asia, The News reported.
     followers of Ismailia sect live in border areas of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Tajikistan. Since the establishment of the Soviet rule in Tajikistan, contact of the Ismailis of Tajikistan with outside world was cut
     Agha Khan has financed rural development projects in Chitral and
                                               KHAD kidnaps rich traders
      The Kabul regime security forces, especially its secret police, have recently indulged in kidnapping of merchants for ransom and looting of shops in the capital, MEDIA reported.
      Haji Cham an, a wealthy merchant from Panjshir, was kidnapped by armed groups in Kabul. He was released after his relative paid $150,000 to the kidnappers.
      Haji Wali, another merchant, have been kidnapped by regime agents who demand sums in return for his release.
      Breaking of shops after nightly curfew hours has become a common practice. Hamid Store and Afghan Market have been looted recently.
      AFP reported that Qari Aman Nawii’s store, close to Najib's palace was looted. The stolen goods were carried away by military trucks after curfew was clumped to the city.
 Northern Pakistan where Ismailia community live. He had shown interest in helping the border areas in Badakhshan where Ismailis live.
     Ismailis in Afghanistan are led by Sayyed Monsoor Nadiri,. Known as Sayyed of Kay an, a regime senator from Baghlan. He played the role of a double agent during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan. His son, Sayyed Jaafer Nadiri, is the leader of Ismaili militias who provide security for part of the Salang road between North Salang and Hayratan on the border with Uzbekistan.
     Relations between Najib and Ismaili militias deteriorated when they supported mutiny by General Moomen, the commander of Hayratan garrison. Najib has failed to find a solution to this problem which can develop into a major crises causing the fall of the regime.
 Rabbani accuses Kabul regime of rocket attacks
     A rocket exploded in a' crowded area of the city of Kabul on February 20 killing 30 people and injuring more than 70, news agencies reported.
     The rocket hit a two-story building in Saray-i-Shazada, a place for exchange of money.
     The official of the foreign ministry of the Kabul regime blamed the Mujahideen for the incident They said the rocket was of Sakar type and was fired form northeast direction.
     Prof. Rabbani and Gulbuddin Hikmatyar have denied involvement of their Mujahideen in the incident Prof. Rabbani blamed the Kabul regime for the incident, He said it was the work of regime to defame the Mujahideen. He said the regime uses the rockets captured or bought from some Mujahideen in these attacks to implicate the resistance.
     BBC reporter said that the rocket attack could be a retaliatory action to the regime bombardments on civilian targets north of Kabul.
     On February 22, a rocket landed near the Kabul airport killing one person and injuring four. On February 26 a rocket hit an area, 500 meters close to the ministry of Education, killing three people and injuring four.
     Informed sources said that the Kabul regime does not reveal the military casualties of the rockets attacks. It only reveals the casulaties of civilians to defame the Mujahideen.
     As the Spring approaches, fighting between the Mujahideen and Kabul re gime’s forces is increases.
     Escalation of war takes place when the UN is busy to organize an assembly of Afghan notables to propose an interim government to which the power of the regime is transferred.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ®
  Editorial
 Time ripe for decisive attacks
     The end of Winter and eruption of internal disputes between Najib and his militia forces in the north of Afghanistan has' provided a good opportunity for the Mujahideen to launch offensive attacks against the Soviet-installed Kabul regime.
     The effect, of arms cut, from January of 1992, has begun to weaken the Kabul regime's war machine. Despite violations of the Moscow agreement, reached between the Mujahideen and former Soviet Union, by some of the Central Asian republics, arms embargo has started to weaken the will and fighting capability of the regime troops.
     The most critical development, however, is tension between the regime and militia forces of Dostum and Kayan in an extremely sensitive area. The crises which began two months ago is deepening by the passage of time.
     The affect of the crises in the north is felt in Kabul and the rest of Afghanistan in the form of ever-increasing prices of essential commodities. Attacks by the Mujahideen, heavy snow and confrontation between the regime and its militiamen have disrupted the flow of traffic on Salang road which connects Kabul to Central Asia.
     Last year, the Mujahideen won several significant victories in Khost, Takhar and Badakhshan. They also defended their territories west of Kabul and in Zindajan, Herat, against the massive attacks launched by the Kabul regime. These victories became possible because of a degree of cooperation among the local Mujahideen forces.
     In the view of regime problems caused by internal disputes and cutting of supplies from outside, the Mujahideen have a better chance to win significant victories in the months ahead. The recent victories of the Mujahideen belong to all resistance parties in Balkh, Samangan, Jawzjan and Kunduz show that the situation is turning in their favor.
     Ahmad Shah Masood whose forces are leading the recent operations in the north has proposed formation of a council involving all the Mujahideen parties in the area to coordinate military activities and deal with local political issues.
     Escalation of war between the Mujahideen and communist forces might be interpreted as an attempt by the Mujahideen to undermine the UN efforts to find a political solution to the problem. The UN and and other foreign countries might persuade the Mujahideen to stop launching offensive operations against the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen should do what suits them and should not bow underpressures.
     Jami'at believe that victories in the batdefields brighten the prospect for a just peace. If the Kabul regime realize that it cannot stand the Mujahideen anymore, it will be ready to make concessions. Therefor, escalation of war is not a bad news for the political efforts to find a peaceful solution* to the Afghan problem.
     Arms cut to the Mujahideen has given them a good chance to take their destiny in their own hands. They can choose their targets and time as they suit them. The effect of shortages of supplies could be minimized by coordination and careful planning.
     One of the problems that the Mujahideen leaders faced after the Soviet troops withdrawal was the amount time and energy they spent on formation of interim government and other political efforts at the expense of less attention to the requirement of the battlefields. The Mujahideen leaders should avoid committing the same mistake twice. If they waste this year in political debates, they will never be able to make for it.
     Jehad has entered a critical phase. It requires urgent attention of the leaders of the. Mujahideen. Lack of progress in the battlefield prolongs the life of the illegal regime of Kabul.
 Jami'at trades prisoners with Kabul regime
    Two regime men were exchanged with six Mujahideen prisoners in a deal between Afzali Fronts of Jami'at in Herat and the Kabul regime. The exchange took place in Jihreel village, Enjeel District, on March 6.
    The Mujahideen prisoners who were kept in Pul-i-Charkhi notorious prison in Kabul were: Mohammad Arrian, Nisar Ahamad and Mohammad Mia from Afzali Fronts, Abdul Aziz Pouran from Email of Ismail Khan, Mohammad Younus from NIFA and Nasir Shairzad from Hezbullah, a Shia party. The two prisoners released by the Mujahideen belonged to the secret police of the regime. The Mujahideen had captured 76 regime armed men from Herat-Torghundi road two months ago. Fifteen of them were members of the regime secret police and the rest belonged to army of the regime.
    The office of Afzali Fronts in Peshawar reported that negotiation for exchange of other prisoners were in progress.
    Exchanges of prisoners at die local level, involving regime and almost all the Mujahideen groups, are practiced all over Afghanistan.
    Afzali • Fronts struck a (teal with Soviets some months ago in which the Soviets agreed to secure the release of 25 Mujahideen prisoners for the release of one Soviet prisoner of war. When the Mujahideen released the Soviet prisoner, Kabul released only 18 Mujahideen prisoners. Regime refuses to release the remaining prisoners on the ground that they could not be traced. Prisoners recently released from Pul-i-Charkhi jail say that they saw those prisoners whom the Mujahideen have demanded their release.
 Embassy remains closed
    Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the- Mujahideen, has rejected the Kabul regime's claim that US was preparing to open its embassy in Kabul.
    He also rejected Hikmatyars allegation that the US was providing aid to the Kabul regime to prevent formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Comander Saifuddin
     Commander Saifuddin, 39, is one of Jami'at commanders in Taliqan who have been leading 300 Mujahideen in the war against the Soviet and the Kabul regime forces.
     Saifuddin began armed struggle in Taliqan at the beginning of 1980 and brought under his control dozens of villages east of the city of Taliqan. He aborted several attempts by the Soviet and regime troops to expand their control east of Taliqan river. He took active part in the liberation of Taliqan in 1988.
     Saifuddin was one of the first commanders who welcomed Masood’s efforts to unify Jami'at Mujahideen under the umbrella of the Supervisory Council. He knew Masood because they had met in Pakistan immediately after the April coup of 1978.
     Saifuddin is one Of the early members of the Islamic movement He joined the movement when he was a student of Taliqan High School. Communists were active in 70s in schools. Setam-i-Milli (national depression party), a splinter group of PADPA, was very active in Takhar. Saifuddin, his brother Shujauddin and some other students stood up against the communist onslaught on religion and Islamic traditions. They were guided and assisted by the members of the Islamic movement from Kabul university. Fayyaz and Sayyed Abdur Rahman, both martyred by the communists, helped them fight communism effectively. They also struggled against the governments of Zahir Shah and President Dand which were corrupt and indifferent to the well-being of the people.
     After completion of his studies at high school, Saifuddin became a student at the Teacher Training Academy in Kabul where he continued his political activities. Daud's crackdown on the Islamic Movement forced its leader. Prof. Rabbani, and some of its leading members to take refuge in Pakistan. They had realized that .peaceful means may not bring the desired result and prepared to train and aim a selected group of the members of the movement. Saifuddin was one of those who was trained in basic tactics and use of weapons. He returned to Taliqan with
 some weapons and waited for orders of the leadership.
     After graduation from Teacher Training Academy, he began to work as a teacher in Nahr-i-Chaman . secondary school. After a while, he was transferred to Eshkamish where he came in contact with
 '
 several teachers who later became Mujahideen commanders. He was there until April communist coup. Few months. after the coup, he migrated to Pakistan. During one and half years of stay in Pakistan, Jami'at sent him to Paktia where an armed struggle against the Kabul regime had just started.
     At the end of 1979, he and a group of Mujahideen returned to Takhar. A few days after arrival, the Mujahideen liberated Taliqan and held it for one week. After recapture of Taliqan by the communists, Saifuddin began to organize the Mujahideen in his area. Abdul Waheed, a Jami'at member who knows Saifuddin well, described him as an extremely good man with good reputation. He is honest and conducts a simple way of life.
     One of the reasons that Saifuddin could not expand his influence was shortages of weapons and other resources. For different reasons, he was not helped sufficiently.
     Being a teacher he has paid attention to education of children in his area. He has opened a primary school in Nahr-i-Chaman.
     Saifuddin comes from Pashaii tribe. His father, Anjamuddin, migrated from Bolaghain, Kohistan District, Kapisa Province, to Taliqan in search of good life. He was a farmer and worked on his own land.
     Saifuddin went to the school mosque of his village, Nahr-i-Chaman to learn the basics of Islam. He entered Nahr-i-chaman primary school, where his uncle, Gulbuddin, was a teacher. He helped his father in his daily work after school hours.
     His brother described his academic performance as average. He is not married and his family are living as refugees in Chitral.
     Saifuddin has always stayed inside Afghanistan and has come to Pakistan twice to fetch weapons and ammunitions.
          Kabul rejg^ and released five franian prisoners at
over to Iranian embassy m Kabul and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   'ft'

 •AS&m,-p^eWsaisi; tat<He&. of)
             mmMtm
 Franck ft* _
     . ii ii Wi,
 Tajitowt                 °f
 members of Economic Coqperattou
AFGHANews Yol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
Situation in Kabul
     Following is an interview with Johan Jennings, an American journalist who went to Kabul as an AP reporter at the beginning of the year. He has worked for many years in Peshawar reporting the war in Afghanistan and has traveled with Mujahideen to many parts cfthe country. •••
     Q. What struck you the most in Kabul after working for so many years in Peshawar and travelling with the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan?
     A. What struck me the most was the absence any overt anti-American and anti-Western feeling in Kabul. This is not a problem while travelling with the Mujahideen inside Afghanistan, but there are certain groups which shoot off their mouths quite a bit in Peshawar; there are a lot anti-Western sentiments voiced in Peshawar. I find this supremely ironic, that there is more of this in Peshawar than in Kabul. I think that some of it (in Peshawar) is justified but die irony is still there.
     Q. What was the main message that Najib wanted to pass to the world?
     A. I think Najib's central message was that he has a role to play, perhaps a dominating role, in the future of Afghanistan. 1 think he want stay around as long as he possibly can in a position of power. He dismisses his past by pointing out that George Bush was in fact the head of CIA, so it is not a problem that he was die head of KHAD. In general he and his supporters argue that what happened in terms pf violation of human rights was part of the war and that the same thing was going on both sides. Though they also dismiss it, they see their association with the Soviet Union as a problem. Najib is trying very hard to distance himself from his association with the Soviets. He declared February 15th, the third anniversary of the Soviet troops withdrawal. National Salvation Day. It seems clear to me, from talking to dissidents within the Watan Party as well as ordinary people, that there is a lot of skepticism about this. Nobody, even the party people, have forgotten that Najib came to power with Soviet approval. I think the point that Najib would make is that it doesn't matter, the Soviets have gone now.
     Q. How was the feeling of the regime people towards Mujahideen parties; field commanders and Zahir Shah?
     A. In general you could say that most people in Kabul when they talk about the Mujahideen, from the highest to the lowest, they paint things in simple primary colors. They have a very simplistic conception. A lot people who are party members paint that sort of simplistic picture because it suits them, and most of the people who are not politically minded assume that is the way it is. In general people have a bad impression of the Mujahideen leaders who currently are refusing to go along with the UN peace process. Hikmatyar is feared by great many Kabulis, ordinary people and women. This has more to do with die incessant regime
 propaganda than with anything Hikmatyar has done or not done, or anything he stands for or does not stand for. He is being used as a propaganda bogeyman. And as a result, when you talk about "extremists" he is the first person that most Kabulis think of. It does not have much reference with any of the things he actually has done, except perhaps the Tanai coup, which gave such propaganda a great deal of credibility.
      There is understanding among Kabulis that field commanders have power and can influence the course of events. But among ordinary people there is not much appreciation for the finer points of the resistance politics. One thing that is very noticeable, from top to bottom, is that people have a very favorable outlook towards Ahmad Shah Masood. What ordinary people say is that he does not kill his enemies, he is a merciful man. If you point out that his ideology is probably every bit as extreme as some other Mujahideen leaders whom everybody calls extremists, people say he is still a merciful man, a reasonable man. It is safe to say that most. Kabulis regard Massood as belonging to an entirely separate category.
      People in Kabul have a very favorable outlook towards Zajpr Shah. Watan Party people would be perfectly happy to see Zahir Shah come back. They are quite conscious of the fact that he is nothing more than a figurehead and that has personally no power, no following, no machine to back him up. Perhaps this one of the reasons that they would be so happy to see him come back: because if he did come back, he would wind up relying on the Watan Party to protect him.
      Q. Were the regime officials willing to discuss the subjects of interest to you or they were sticking the official policy line?
      A. I found them to be frank most of the time but they usually were unwilling to be quoted. Because of this, I was always careful about how I cited sources. Sometimes all you can say is "an Afghan government official" or "a high Watan Party official.” The only person who always speaks on the record is Najibullah, others most often ask you not to quote than by name.
      Q. The Kabul regime claims that it has introduced , a multi-party system in the country. Did you meet the people from other parties? Did you feel their presence?
      A. The Prime Minister, with whose office I had contact, is clearly involved in a lot of day-to-day things like providing fuel and food, and similar problems. In terms of making the decisions which could affect the country's future, I don't have any doubt that all the power still lies with the Watan Party. All the decisions which really influence the course of events are still made within the party.
      There were some people in the "moderate" wing of the Watan Party who seemed to feel that they were being left out. that
 they were not really being consulted.
      I talked to other observers who felt that Najibullah was distancing himself completely from the party. One of the theories behind this was that Najib knows the Watan Party is an artificial creation, like some parties on the other side, and it can't play an important role in the long-term future of the country. Some people felt that Najib was distancing himself from the party, distancing himself from problems in his past and relying heavily on his real constituency, the security forces - KHAD, the army and police.
      I met with Koshani, the head of SAZA. These people want you to believe that there is a degree of pluralism simply by their presence. Given the way things were shortly after the Saur revolution, there is a change. Do these people have any real influence? I am not convinced that they do.
      Q. Did you observe any differences within the Watan Party and government on ethnic grounds?
      A, Yes, there are differences and problems. Some people within the Watan Party say that if these problems are not addressed now, they could, in time, bring about the collapse of the current order. But those who admit that there is problem and those who say there is no problem both have axes to grind. I think the people who say there are problems are being honest, but in some cases they may be saying that because it suits their position too.
      The clearest evidence that we had of the problem was the incident regarding Kishtmand. One afternoon he gave the BBC an interview in which he called upon the government to give genuine represents don to the minorities. The next day, he was shot in face when he was leaving a mosque A while after this, there was a march. It must have been one of the few processions taken out in KabulJt was planned and held about one week after the incident. They had permission from the commander of the Kabul garrison, but it wasn't completely stage-managed. Most of thelOO or so people who took part in the march were young. Among the older participants was a prominent Hazara merchant who also addressed the meeting.
      Q. The Kabul regime supports tire UN peace plan. Does the regime really think that the UN plan provides a solution to the problem?
      A. To all appearances there is genuine belief that the UN plan is worth a try. Nobody seems to have any other ideas. Of course, it is possible that Najibullah is supporting it only because he is confident that tire Mujahideen will never be able to unite on iL Anybody who is the least bit skeptical must consider that possibility.
      Q. Whp" is tiie main problem that a journalist faces while working in Kabul?
      A. The main problem journalists face in Kabul is that sources of information are
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 6, March 15,1992, page @
 limited. Basically, what you have to do is to report what people tell you. For instance, I reported the army mutiny in Mazar-i- Sharif based on conversations with diplomats.
      The problem is that most people there, whither they are aid workers, diplomats or other journalists, have a certain sympathy for die regime — if only because, at least, it is a regime. At least they know who the boss is.
      A lot of people, your sources of information, are genuinely concerned and afraid of Islamic fundamentalism, as they see it. People are concerned about narcotics trafficking.
      For these reasons, almost everybody that you meet and talk to in Kabul, even the very realistic ones, and the very honest ones, can always be suspected of a bias — perhaps unconscious —in favor of the regime on certain issues. This includes me.
      Perhaps the biggest threat to a Western journalist is his background. Most Western journalists tends to be, by nature of the profession, very liberal and idealistic. Western liberal values are our stock in trade. So there tend to be built-in negative feelings, a tendency to take the regime's constant warnings of extremism and extremists at face value without stopping to think, what do they really mean? and who are they talking about?
      Q« How was food and fuel situation in Kabul?
      A. There was no shortage of food or fuel while I was there. But they are quite expensive. Fuel was getting cheaper. In the second half of January the price of gasoline fell from almost 7,000 Afghanis per gallon to 4,000. The price of diesel and kerosene dropped correspondingly. Presumably, the fuel that regime and the private traders had bought from Central Asia was reaching the market in Kabul. Wheat was arriving, but not much. Out of half a million tons of wheat that the private sector wanted to import, less than 10 percent of that had arrived by mid-February.
        Oddly enough, the problem was not getting it through chaos in the Afghan countryside. The problem was getting it through chaos in the former Soviet Union. Prices (of transport) ace very high. Wheat is also coming from the resistance areas in the countryside but transportation costs are high there too.
        Q. Do the people in Kabul have electricity? What about foreigners living in Kabul?
        A. I was probably among the luckiest. Not only I did live in Wazir Akbar Khan, where there is regular supply of electricity, but our street was next to Radio Afghanistan and like them, we had almost always had power.
        But some other people, even in Wazir Akbar Khan, had electricity only a few hours a day. Parts of the city might get electricity two or three hours a week. An Afghan friend living in Khair Khana had all sorts of fancy electronic appliances but could not use them because his house had no electricity most of the time.
        Q. What did the ordinary people .in
 Kabul complain about the most?
      A. Just like America, everything revolves around economic problems. Everybody wants peace because they are painfully aware that the economic disruption, shortages and inflation are all the result of chaos caused by the war in the countryside.
      Everybody talks about die good old days. This is one of the reasons for sympathy the people have for Zahir Shah. I call it the Eisenhower effect. Eisenhower was a president who knew when to let well enough alone. As a result he got credit for everything dial continued to go well. Things were certainly a lot better under Zahir Shah than they are now. He is a symbol of the time when things were easier and better.
      The people talk about inflation, the rising price of everything and how hard it is to buy enough to eat. One day at eleven o'clock in the morning, I passed by a bakery. There was a long queue to buy bread. I talked to an 12-year old girl who had waited in the line for two hours and had to wait at least for two more hours to buy ten pieces of bread. Everything is difficult
      Q. Did you visit outside Kabul? If yes, where?
      A. I am ashamed to say I did not get outside Kabul very much. I did go to Tangi Waghjan in Logar. It was a "guided tour" by government officials. It was very interesting. I think I am the first Western journalist to go to Tangi Waghjan who was also there with Mujahideen when it was under Mujahideen control. I remember being with some Mujahideen who were attacking a convoy in the summer of 1988. There . were helicopters shooting at the Mujahideen who were trying to launch rockets at the Iconvoy. The security posts were mortaring us. The convoy made it by but the Mujahideen extracted their pound of flesh. There were some burning vehicles left behind. The road was mostly under control of the Mujahideen. The government had to make long detours.
        This time, there was no fighting. Everything was in government hands. We rode in a vehicle most of the way without any armed guards. It was like a tourist excursion. I was amazed how tightly the government had managed to bring this little area south of Kabul under its control.
        Q. Did you see any rocket attacks against Kabul while you were thae? How did the ordinary people react to the attacks?
        A. I heard 30 to 40 rockets landing in our side of Kabul on December 27, the 12th anniversary of the Soviet invasion. The people are angry and bitter about them. From what I saw' they are completely pointless.
        But it is certainly not appropriate for a journalist to say that they only kill women and children. The fact is that the government doesn't publicize military casualties. Some of these rockets may very well be falling on military targets in the city and we just do not know about it They publicize the civilian casualties.
        Q. Knowing the Mujahideen and now visiting Kabul, is there a chance of compromise between the Mujahideen and the
 regime?
     A. If there were just two warring fac-1 tions, I would have a lot more hope. But I there are hundreds of factions. What I am I concerned about is that the divisions within each of the two larger factions — the government on one hand and the Mujahideen on the other — are so great that interested parties with a very narrow outlook, within those larger groups, would be inclined for their own self-interest to undermine any| agreement that the leaders of the larger factions are able to arrive at. I am not saying1 that there will not be a settlement. But there I are very serious difficulties. I am not sure that all the diplomats and the UN people working so hard to bring about a solution are fully aware of the many pitfalls in their | path.
     It is clear in the minds of people in the I government that a lot of resistance leaders are people that they can deal with as individuals. They draw a distinction between extremists and everybody else. Some ordinary people you talk to do not have much personal acquaintance with the resistance. [ All they know is that "Mujahideen looted | my truck."
     They admit that government militiamen also loot trucks. They blame the gov-! eminent for that. The government is not popular. It is only slightly more popular than the Mujahideen. That is because there is an order. Things are more predictable with a strong organized government. They are not interested in ideology and constitutional law. Their priority is order, security and economic issues.
     Q, Did you meet any Russian diplo-
 mats in Kabul? What were they thinking
 about the situation?
              ( •
     A. I met with the press officer of the
 former Soviet Union. He was an Uzbek and spoke very good Persian. Russian diplomats | are well-informed about what was going on I in Kabul and in the countryside. They are open. Changes in the former Soviet Union | account for a lot of their openness. As individuals, they do not hesitate to admit the mistakes of the past It saw a Soviet-made film while I was there. The film was made I during the withdrawal of Soviet troops. It was a documentary explaining what a terrible mistake the invasion was. The film can-1 not be described as pro-Mujahideen, but it I is anti-war.
     Q. The Iranian embassy is quite active in Kabul. Did you observe' anything special when you were there?
     A. As an American, I was surprised I to see dial Iranian diplomats were so open. They made it clear that they feel, at least for the time being, there was no alternative to the Najib regime. They also made it clear | that they would rather he would go.
     The Iranians talk about humanitarian I issues. They talk about suffering of people I in Hazarajat. They made it clear that if any Muslim Tajik or Pushtbon on the government side or in the resistance areas wants, help, they would help. They said they | would not rule out helping anybody.
                                            AFGHANews Vol8, No 6, March 15,1992, page ©
UN envoy begins second round of consultations
     Benon Sevan, the UN special envoy on Afghanistan, has begun his second round of consultations with Mujahideen and the Kabul regime to finalize the list of 150 prominent Afghans who meet in late April in Geneva to discuss the political solution of the Afghan problem.
     In Pakistan, he has been meeting with with Mujahideen leaders, commanders and Pakistani officials. In Kabul met with Najib and other rank/ ing officials of the regime.
     Before leaving for Geneva at the end of his fust round of consultations, he said that he had met with more than 100 groups of Afghans ~ in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran and Europe.
     Besides meetings with the resistance and Kabul regime leaders, Sevan has met with tribal councils, commanders and prominent personalities. He has asked all of them the to give him the list of 150 men that they wanted to see in the proposed Ijlas (gathering).
     Sevan will chose from among the lists delivered to him 150 names of non-controversial people. They will be the members of the gathering which is planned to be held by the end of April. The delegates chose draw up a list of 30 men who will called the working group. The job of the group is to propose a mechanism for the transfer of power and the composition of the interim administration.
     From the Mujahideen parties, Pir Gailani, Prof. Mujaddidi and Mawlawi Nabi Mohmmadi have provided a joint list of 200 men to Sevan, the Kabul regime has also provide a list of its candidates.
     Jami’at, Hezb of Hikmatyar, Hezb of Khalis and Itdhad of Prof. Sayyaf have not given the. lists asked by Sevan. Abdul Haq, a major commander of Hezb (Khalis group) has expressed sympathetic view to the UN formula and might have provided Sevan with the list of his candidates. According to some reports, Mr. Sevan has succeeded in receiving some list from the individ-tuU from those parties which do not support the UN formula.
     The most important question being raised about the UN formula is the criteria which the UN has set for choosing the 150 representatives. Some resistance leaders said how they should support a process which they do not know enough about it
     Sevan has said that the intra-Afghans dialogue will start even if some groups refuse to participate in it
 and did not expect unanimity of view among all Afghan groups.
     In order to stress the need for political solution, Sevan speaks about the danger of Afghanistan's disintegration on ethnic lines if a quick solution is not found to its problem. Seme Mujahideen leaders say the he is exaggerating about the danger of ethnic problems.
     A new development in connection to the UN plan is the meeting between a delegation of the three moderate parties - NIFA, Jabha and Harakat - with the former king in Rome. The two sides agreed to coordinate their activities and expressed support to the UN formula.
     The Mujahideen parties who appose the UN plan, in its present shape, are trying to coordinate their positions.
     While Kabul give lip service to the UN formula, Sulaiman Laiq, a prominent leader of the Watan Party has said that it is natural for Najib to play a role during the transitional period. This position is in conflict with the UN formula which envisages total transfer of power to a transitional government formed by non-controversial Afghans.
     Being worried about lack of consensus among the Mujahideen parties on the UN formula, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif has been meeting the leaders of the resistance individually to persuade to go along with the UN peace formula which Pakistan supports. He has met, so far, with Gulbuddin Hikmatyar and Prof. Rabbani.
     According to a BBC report, the representative of the three moderate parties met with Abdul Wakil, the foreign minister of the Kabul regime, in Geneva in mid January. This report is not confirmed by the parties involved.
iff
    With Turkish Narration
    "The story of victory" is a two-hour interesting documentary film that tells the story of Mujahideen victory in the north of Afghanistan. The price of the film, sent by air mail, is $25. Stocks are limited. To receive your copy write to: Mohammad Najib Koohsar MIDIA P.O.Box 297 Peshawar - Pakistan Phone: (0521) 44226,40768 Fax:(0521)42418
 News from battlefields
                                              From page (2)
 and two tanks were destroyed when the Mujahideen attacked regime's position in Khachazi area of Raig District on March 7, Commander Lai Jan reported. Six Mujahideen were killed and 24 were inured in the fighting.
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at fired rockets into regime Division No. 15 cm February 21, killing three enemy troops, destroying one ambulance, one truck and one multiple rocket launcher, Moalim Feda Mohammad reported.
    ■ One ZPU-1, two tanks and some ammunitions were destroyed when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked regime posts near Kandahar airport on March 6, Commander Lai Jan reported.
    •    The Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Sersang area, near Kandahar airport on March 5, destroying four tanks, one ZPU-1 and killing a number of enemy troops. Four Mujahideen were killed and 17 sustained injuries in the fighting.
 Prof. Rabbani attends graduation ceremony
    Jami'at leader has participated in the annual graduation ceremony of Madrasa-i-Haqqania, a traditional religious school for higher studies, located outside Peshawar. In his speech. Prof. Rabbani praised the role of Haqqania mad rasa in spreading Islamic knowledge in Pakistan and Afghanistan.
    The school was founded 40 years ago by late Mawlawi Abdul Haq. Since its establishment, around 8,000 ulamas have graduated from this madrasa, half whom came from Afghanistan.
    Jalaluddin Haqqani, the famous Mujahideen commander in Paktia, is a graduate of this madrasa.
  Help us publish AFGHANews!
                               Please send your donations to the following account number:
                                JEHAD Account No. 735-37 Habib Bank Ltd. Tehkal Bala, Peshawar Pakistan