 Vol 7, No 7
 April 1,1991
 Prof.Rabbani's security guard killd in blast
    One Afghan Mujahid was killed and one was seriously injured when a bomb exploded at the guard post outside the residence of Jami'at leader Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani in •’eshawar on March 21.
    The bomb exploded at 9:00 P.M., blowing up the guard room of the residence near Arbab Road, University Town.
    One of the guards, Sayyed Jamal of Badakhshan, died on the spot while Abdul Halim, another guard, was injured. The injured was admitted to Al-Fawzan hospital and it is said that he is out of danger.
    The device, a time-bomb weighing about two kilograms, had been placed beneath the elevated floor of the guard room. Window panes of neighboring houses were broken by the explosion. Police and Jami'at officials have started an investigation but so far no arrests have been made. A Jami'at official said the saboteurs might have planted the mine under the guard room during the rain storm earlier in the day, so that the guards would not notice it.
    The number of casualties could have been much higher if the people attending congregational prayers in the nearby mosque had been passing at the time of the explosion.
    A Jami'at source said the Kabul regime is behind the incident and it was aimed at physical elimination of Prof. Rabbani and his Mujahideen. Prof. Rabbani was praying in his residence at the time of the explosion.
    The xxplosion coincided with the start of the new Afghan year, when the Mujahideen are busy preparing to launch attacks on the enemy inside Afghanistan. The explosion was also aimed at creating tension between the Mujahideen and local Pakistanis. Fortunately no Pakistanis were hurt in the incident
     The Mujahideen have achieved some major victories in the Khost operation, which was launched on March 13 and still continues.
     In operations around Khost the Mujahideen from all parties have taken part The war is conducted by the local council of commanders, which is composed of 23 people.
     So far, the Mujahideen have captured a number of security posts around the city and are in control of the old airport. A large number of regime troops have been killed or wounded but the exact figure is not available.
     The purpose of the current operations is to tighten the siege around Khost and then capture it. The first aim has been achieved to a large extent
     Jaji Maidan District on the Pakistan border, and Shaik Amir, Yaqoubi and Bak sub-districts were freed from regime's control. The Jaji Maidan garrison played a key role in supplying Khost with food smuggled from Pakistan.
     Road links betwen Khost District, 160 kilometers southeast of Kabul, and the rest of the country have been cut since the autumn of 1985. The city has been supplied by air. When the Mujahideen captured the strategic post of Toorghar, overlooking the Khost airport, last year, the Kabul regime built a new airport which was out of the range of Mujahideen guns.
     The Mujahideen have reported shooting down two helicopters and destroying two fixed-wing planes parked at the airport. They also destroyed the local radio'station and set on fire a fuel dump.
     The Mujahideen are using ground-to-ground rockets and captured tanks against the regime. In order to persuade the defenders of Khost to surrender, the Mujahideen have announced a general amnesty for defecting soldiers.
     The Kabul regime, while admit-
 ting having lost some parts of Khost, has said it will send reinforcements to the area. Regime jets have pounded suspected positions of the Mujahideen with cluster and incendiary bombs dropped from high altitude.
     The Kabul regime has also fired more than 40 SCUD missiles at Mujahideen positions. SCUD missiles were used by Iraq in the Gulf war. The Mujahideen also are faced with minefields planted by the regime.
     Casualties are uncertain on both sides. Hundreds of families from Khost have become refugees in Pakistan.
     The Soviet Union and Kabul regime have charged that Pakistan's armed forces are involved in the fighting around Khost. The regime has protested to Pakistan and has asked the UN Secretary General to intervene.
     Pakistan and the Mujahideen have rejected the allegations by Kabul and Moscow, and Commander Haqqani has asked foreign journalists and representatives of UN to visit the area to see for themselves that the claims of the Kabu regime are baseless.
     As may be seen, the Khost operation is not coordinated with operations in other, parts of Afghanistan. But the Mujahideen are doing better in the propaganda field than the past They have wisely avoid giving false hopes of a quick victory. The world media's lack of interest in Afghanistan has had a positive effect of keeping expectations of a quick victory low.
     Jami'at leader Prof. Rabbani has congratulated the Mujahideen of the Khost front for their achievements and has praised their courage.
     Liberation of Khost would boost the morale of the Mujahideen, and might lend new momentum to the armed struggle of the Mujahideen against the Kabul regime.
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page @
Battlefields
Faryab Province
  •   The Mujahideen of Jami'at Islami killed and wounded dozens of regime militiamen and seized a considerable number of arms and ammunition in five days of fighting against regime militia groups ih Qaysar District, Hindukush News Agency reported.
   Following are details of operations launched under the command of Arbab Abdul Hafiz:
  The Mujahideen killed 15 soldiers and one officer and captured 20 soldiers when they attacked a tribal battalion of the regime ih Asqalan area on March 23. The Mujahideen seized 35 Kalashnikov rifles, one mortar, one wireless set and some ammunition.The area came under control of the Mujahideen.
  The Mujahideen liberated Hazar Qala area, killing 25 enemy soldiers and capturing 100 on March 25. Ten Mujahideen were injured in the operation. The Mujahideen seized the following arms and ammunition: Kalashnikov rifles 100 PK machineguns           4
  RPG rocket launchers   3
  DSChK gun (12.6mm)     2.
  ZPU gun (14.6)         2
  Grenade launcher       1
  R-105 radio sets     , 2 .
  Ammunition rounds 400,000 Ninety armed men surrendered to the Mujahideen in Chich Katoo area on March 26.
  The report says a number of villages with inhabitants totalling 1000 families were also liberated. These village have been under1 control of the regime for the past 12 years.
  •  Armed clashes between commu-
nist factions ova: a government transition in Faryab has caused a number of casualties in Maimana, the provincial capital of Faryab, Hindukish News Agency reported.                1
  Armed groups of Groh-i-Kar and SAZA clashed with police and KHAD which belong to Parcham faction in
 Maimana on March 3. As -a result of this fighting, 16 people from both sides were killed and many were injured.The two sides made use of tanks and other heavy and light weapons against each other. Night curfew was declared in the city, which was announced on the local radio.
  A delegation wait to the area from Kabul to dad with the situation. It succeeded in bringing the fighting to a halt but tension remained high.
  Hie tension between the two sides started last month when Hashim Paikar, the governor of Faryab and a member of Groh-i-Kar, was replaced by a new governor from Parcham faction.
  Groh-i-Kar and SAZA are two communist factions active in the North. They compete with the Khalq and Parcham factions which run the Kabul government. The Soviets try to keep good relations with all these factions, and even supply militia groups belonging to SAZA and Groh-i-Kar directly with weapons and logistical supplies.
  • The Mujahideen destroyed the headquarters of regime militiamen about 40 kilometers west of the Qaisar District, capturing a large number of militiamen along with several hundred light and heavy weapons on March 19.
  Raza Khan Alekozai, the general commander of the militia forces in the area, escaped to Russia along with a number of militia families. Five Mujahideen were martyred and 18 were wounded in the operation.
   On February 23 the regime's radio claimed that Raza Khan along with ten thousand Mujahideen - four thousand of whom were armed-had defected from Jami'at Islami to the regime. JIA rejected the allegation.
 Jawzjan Province
  Kabul regime militias in Sar-i-Pul District clashed with KHAD and police .on February 21, Hindukush News Agency reported.
  As a result of the clash, two persons were killed and four were injured. The
 cause of the clash was not known. Tension between different factions of the regime has increased the number of militias defecting to the Mujahideen. In die past two weeks 20 armed militiamen have defected to the Mujahideen.
 Herat Province
   •   The Mujahideen of Jami’at destroyed one tank and killed 20 militiamen in Kushk-i-Ishaq area of Enjeel District in clashes which. continued from March 9 to 12. Meanwhile, the Mujahideen attacked militia forces of the regime in Sayedabad area of Pushtoon Zarghoon District. No details weregiven.
   •   Ten enemy soldiers were killed on March 10 when Mujahideen attacked die security posts protecting the city of Herat in Murghiz area. One Mujahid was killed and one was injured.
   •   The Mujahideen killed or wounded 22 enemy soldiers and destroyed one tank in Udran area on March 14 .
   •   Two soldiers were killed and four soldiers surrendered when die Mujahideen ambushed than on Herat-Torghondi road on March 12. The Mujahideen seized four guns.
   •   The Mujahideen captured one truck and one ZPU-2 (14.6 mm ma-chinegun) near Pul-i-Sabzwar, west of Herat airport, on March 14. The enemy lost three men in the attack.
   •   On March 13, 50 militiamen surrendered to the Mujahideen in Karokh District, bringing 50 guns with them.
   •   The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked the Kabul regime garrison in die border town of Torghpndi on March 15, setting on fire an ammunition dump which burned for 24 hours. According to preliminary reports, more than 100 enemy troop were eitha killed or wounded in die incident.
   The Mujahideen used ground-to-ground rockets against the enemy base on the Soviet border. Torghondi is a dry port through which the Kabul regime brings both military and nonmilitary supplies for its garrisons in southwestern Afghanistan.
 . • Ten enemy militiamen were killed and 12 were injured when a bomb planted by the Mujahideen in Karta district, inside the city of Herat, exploded onMarchl7.
   •   The Kabul regime reported that the Mujahideen fired mote than 80 rockets into government positions in Herat city, killing five people and wounding 30 on March 12.
   AFGHANews has learned from reliable sources that the UN is planning to close its office in Herat city due to intensification of war in the city.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991,'page ©
Merits of rich vs. poor
I told the false dervish: "Don't and not realized that tlrey are all cause*
 criticize the rich. They are the ount of generosity."
  He said: "You are wrong. They are slaves to money. What use their being loaded like the spring clouds if they never rain? Or what use their being brilliant like the sun if they never shine on anybody? They never do anything gratuitously for the sake of God, and if they give, they give with such bad grace that it insults the receiver. They take infinite pains to acquire wealth, they keep their money like misers and they die miserable at the thought of leaving their property behind them. As the wise saying goes:
                        y are all caused by poverty? Have you not heard of the beggar caught in flagrante delicto with a youth? He was struck dumb with shame but was forced to speak for fear of being stoned. "See, Muslims! I am too poor to pay for a wife and too lusty to be always abstinent - so what else can I do? There are no monks in Islam."
  One of the reasons why the rich man keeps young and healthy is that every night he enjoys his lawful pleasures, and wakes up refreshed and rejouvenat-ed in the morning. How should he turn from these pleasures to those ugly sins? Most poor people stain their purity with disobedience and incontinence. Most hungry people gobble their food
You can dig up the miser's gold without pausing to ask whether it is fron the ground only when he pure or not And how many veiled
 dies and is buried in the ground."
  I replied: "If you find the rich to be miserly, that is only because you are a beggar. If you would only abandon your greed, you would look with indifference on both the generous and the ungenerous."
  "I have seen them myself, " he said, "Placing rough guards at their doors to deny access to distinguished guests, with the excuse that nobody was at home. Indeed when a man has neither reason nor intelligence nor integrity, you can truly say that he is out to dinner!"
  "Of course!" I exclaimed. "They are worn out by the demands of beggars. If all the sands of the desert turned into precious pearls, the beggar's greedy eyes would still not be satisfied, any more than a deep well can be filled with dew. Wherever you find someone who has experienced hardship and misfortune, he throws himself into the most criminal actions without fear of the consequences or even of Divine judgement. You pelt a dog with a stone, he jumps for joy thinking it a bone. When a funeral procession passes, the beggar's only thought is that his dinner is on its way!
  I ask you, tell me Honestly, have you ever seen a man languishing in prison or a woman forced to sell her virginity, or a common thief with his hand cut off? Have you ever seen these things
 beauties have been forced by poverty to sink into corruption and throw their good name to the winds?
  Hatem Tay the Beduin was famed for generosity in the desert; had he lived in the city, the rush of beggars and scroungers would have reduced him to naked poverty."
  The false dervish replied: "You misjudge me! I merely felt sorry for the poor."
  I said: "No! You merely envy the rich!"
  I countered every point that he made. We reached stalemate. Finally he ran out of points to make, while I still had plenty in my arsenal. So he started in-Turn to page (6)
 AFGHAN
PROVERBS
1
   Saying salam is a sign of true faith.
   Meaning: A sincere greeting is an expression of real religion.
   Glory is fitting to God alone. Meaning: A person should not be proud.
      ♦<$'*            Ji
   On this side the staff, on that side the panther.
   Meaning: Between the devil and the deep blue sea.
                                                                                     ♦<JL <J
   When sorrows come, they come not single spies. But in battalions. Meaning: Misery loves company.
uraim:

Ramadhan starts, the gates
ave
and the gates ot Hen are are chaifcMHMMHB

AFGHANews Vol 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page 0
  Editorial
V                 '    _____________
Jehad will benefit from renewed ties between Riyadh and Teheran
War in a Distant Country.
    Afghanistan:
Invasion and Resistance by David C. Isby
Arms and Armour Press Price £14.95
     The resumption of diplomatic ties between Iran and Saudi Arabia, two Islamic countries which support the Mujahideen, is good news for the Afghan resistance.
     The two countries decided to resume ties on 26 April. Iran has decided to end itsboycott of Haj, after an agreement was reached on the number of Iranian pilgrims to Mecca. The Saudi government has fixed a quota for each Islamic country proportional to its population, and this quota formula has been approved by the Organization of Islamic Conference.
     Diplomatic relations between the two countries ended in 1988. Relations between Riyadh and Teheran were tense over Saudi support for Iraq in the Iraq-Iran war. They had suffered another blow when Saudi security forces and Iranian pilgrims clashed in 1987, leaving about 400 dead. Iran boycotted the annual pilgrimage to Mecca for the next three years.
     Resumption of diplomatic ties will enable thousands of Iranians to perform Haj. Some Afghans who live in Iran will also be able to perform Haj. Iran had helped Afghan refugees to perform Haj in the past.
     Resumption of ties between Saudi Arabia and Iran will have a positive effect on the Afghan issue. Saudi Arabia has been generous in providing material assistance to the refugees and Mujahideen and has supported the diplomatic efforts of the Afghan resistance. Iran is host to about two million Afghan refugees and Shia political parties, and has been supporting the Mujahideen too. Absence of diplomatic ties between the two supporters of the Mujahideen had made coordination of efforts in support of Jehad difficult
     Now that they have resumed their ties, they can talk with each other about a cause which has a significant impact on the future of Muslims and the region. Instead pf wasting energy in rivalries which were products of hostile attitudes, Iran and Saudi Arabia can help to bring Mujahideen groups closer.
     The improvement of relations between Tehran and Riyadh is in the larger interest of the Muslim world and of peace in the region. There is a strong need for closer ties between Islamic states so that tragic events like the occupation of Kuwait, which led to a bloody war in the Gulf, can Ire prevented.
     Jami'at Islami welcomes the improvement of relations between the two brotherly countries of Saudi Arabia and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and finds it to be in the interest of Afghans and the whole Muslim Ummah.
 David Isby's book War in a Distant Country is an excellently organized concise analysis of the war is it evolved from 1979, with clear maps and black and white photos showing the men and their weapons. The obvious comparison is the with earlier book of Mark Urban's, War in Afghanistan. Isby's book is strikingly wider in its scope, not afraid of giving judgement when they help the reader understand the sequence of events. It also benefits by personal experience and insights gained by Isby's trips inside Afghanistan with Mujahideen groups.
 He is sympathetic to the ideals anc achievements of the Afghan Mujahideen though his assessment of the military side of the struggle is always objective. "The Afghan Resistance is not an army but rather a people in arms; its strengths and weaknesses are those of Afghan society," Isby writes. The dogged determination to resist against all odds the overwhelmingly superior Soviet forces with mas-
  1
 Taliqan is no looter's paradise
    Taliqan, the provincial capital of Takhar, is run smoothly by a coalition government of the Mujahideen and has never been looted, as an article in 'The News' has alleged.
    In an article about the recent Mujahideen attack in Khost, Rahimullah Yusufzai wrote that some towns and cities liberated in the past were looted by the Mujahideen. Among the places he named was Taliqan which according to him was looted after its liberation about two years ago.
    Although one cannot rule out some indisciplined behavior in some areas involving some Mujahideen groups, the story about Taliqan is not true.
    Taliqan is a well-administered city with a regular police force. Visiting foreign and Afghan guests have appreciated the way the city is run, even saying that this example should be followed in other parts of Afghanistan. Therefore it is not fair to list Taliqan as a looted city.
    Taliqan had had suffered some damages during the war which was repaired by the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen have started to reconstruct a state-owned garden, Bagh-i-Zakhira, which was turned into a military base by the Soviets during the occupation of the city.
     sive air power required great courage.
Unfortunately for Isby, his text was completed just before Soviet withdrawal was completed and before the fighting in 1989 showed up the heavy penalty of those same deficiencies, and especially the chronic disunity and rivalries within the guerrilla resistance* which Isby does not shrink from describing. Only in a further edition will he have an opportunity to reassess the full significance of the Soviet military experience of Afghanistan.
Courtesy: ARIN
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad
  Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad, Jami'at commander in Teshkan Valley of Badkhshan, leads more than 1500 armed Mujahideen in Teshkan side-valley. He is know as Wakil Sahib because he was a member of parliament during the time of the king.
  Here are some of his famous operations:
  •In 1979 his Mujahideen took a leading part in the attack on Keshm District which resulted in the liberation of that valley. The Mujahideen seized 400 guns. Six of his Mujahideen were killed in this operation. The center of Keshm remained under control of the Mujahideen for one week.
  •In the same year, the communist regime launched an offensive from four directions on Teshkan . His Mujahideen fought well. The enemy suffered heavy casualties and its moral fell. The enemy evacuated Keshm.
   He took part in operation against Taliqan which resulted in the freedom of that city in the fall of 1979. After one week regime troops recaptured the city.
   •In 1980, he and Damullah Sayyed Ameer launched a joint attack against the enemy garrison in Keshm. It proved to be a disastrous move. Eighty six Mujahideen .were killed and 204, including Commander Damullah, were wounded. The enemy also lost many soldiers.
   •In 1980, Soviets launched an offensive on Teshkan Valley. Ground attack was accompanied with heavy bombing of valley by Russian jets. Fighting continued for 18 days. Soviet suffered casualties and failed root out the Mujahideen from Teshkan.
   •In 1988, his Mujahideen took part in the attack which led the liberation of Keshm for the third time.
   He survived an attempt on his live in
 ^ Berwi Seyan, Representative of the UN Secretary-General, MBM
    Sayyed Mahyuddin Sayyad
 1985 but one of his hands was paralyzed due to the injury he sustained in the incident
  Sayyed Mahyuddin was bom 56 years ago in the village of Marghzar of Teshkan, a narrow valley parallel to the main Keshm valley. His father, Sayyed Shir Khan was a rich man.
  Wakil Mahyuddin finished primary school in Teshkan and learned about Islam from Maulawi Saray in Keshm.
  He has divided his valley into 13 administrative units, called Qarargah. He collect Islamic tax to finance his activities.
    He has established nine Madrasas "religious schools" and 14 schools including one for girl school. He runs a good hospital.
  He is a famous hunter and prominent horseman. Because of his love for hunting he is called Sayyad, the Persian word for a hunter.
  He is a relatively wealthy man but live a simple way of life. This is the main reason for his popularity among his people. He has married four times and has nine children. He can be described as traditional leader.
News from
  Moalim Rafiullah fc
  Panjshir, Feb. 25 - The Education Committee of the Supervisory Council has opened 143 schools in the areas it controls in Kapisa, and north of Kabul. About 16,600 students study in these schools.
  Sixty schools have been opened, including five high schools, seven secondary schools, 11 primary schools and the rest village schools (through third grade). A total of 6,475 students attend classes in Panjshir.
  The last few months show a decrease in mine explosions because the local people are more careful than the past to avoid going into areas
 suspected to have mines (or perhaps the snow and cold weather have restricted movement of peopleduring the winter).
   In the incident of the ammunition explosion in Dasht-i-Rivat, in the upper part of the valley (reported in AFGHANews No 4, Feb. 15,1991) only two people were killed and one injured Earlier the Mujahideen had reported killing of seven people and injuring of many in the incident, which took place some months ago.
   Training of teachers still continues, and this year more than 360 teachers will be taught new methods of teaching. The teachers also study religious subjects during their training.
  | Pakistan, discussed the situation InB [Afghanistan on Mlrch ife';.. 3. ■ The UN envoy briefed the] Ishaq Khan about his recent talks I    the .Soviet -leaders conc^ntncl
  ■issue*          .......txj::  ,
  P • ........                         I
  ■Ten Mujahideen ware kiflp/and one injured on March 16 when the truck carrying them hit a land minem Kishk areas of:. Surkhrod District, Nangarhar Province. The wounded Mnjahid wa croc rt to Peshawar for medicafti^
       ■I ••• |
  ■■■■■■ul regime announced a cease-fire;'^            rn||ii: of
  iRamadhan, The regime defence minister said he had ordered his troops not use arms against the Mujahideen] if they were not attacked. The Mujahideen ...reeled the offer. Tp ■Kabul regime had armounced similar] cease-fires on other occasions.
  mM ...
   ■Iran has agreed •
  ARIANA planes to land in Bandar-i-1 I Abbas, Radio Kabul reported■■■!
  I The Kabul regime had requested that the Iranians allow regime plates to land in Tehran and the southern city of Bandar-t-Abbas. No decision] has been made about flights of regime planes to Teheran. But regime| flights >o the Iranian port of the Persian Gulf is commercially very] important for the Kabul regime.
                                                                                                              : I f— HH
       Najibullah, the head of die Kabul] regime, has congratulated President ! Hashimi Rafsanjani of Tran on the ocl I casjoh'ipf the new..;year. 3T': :"j§
       In his message, he expressed B desire for further improvements in relations between the two countries during the new Afghan year; I I •••31;       •••
       Shaikh Asif Mohsini, the leader of Harakat-i-Tslami Afghanistan, has I asked the Iranian president to return the properties of his organization! which were seized after Iranian aul thorities forced Harakat’^'ffice^n that country to close.
       Shaikh Mohsini told reporters in [Peshawar that his party was not disj solved as the Hezb-i-Wahdat had!
   I claimed.
AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
Haqqani denies Pak troops' involvement in Khost battle
  Commando- Jalaluddin Haqani has categorically. rejected allegations by Kabul and Moscow that foreign troops and advisors were helping the Mujahideen in the Khost operation, MEDIA reported.
  He added that such allegations were not new. The Russians and the Kabul regime have always used such allegation as an excuse for their failures. He invited the UN Secretary General's Representatives and journalists to travel to Khost and ascertain the validity of the Kabul claims.
   Mawlawi Haqani said that all the strategic points around Khost - in the east, souths southeast and southwest, earlier controlled by the communists, have been conquered by the Mujahideen. The regime troops had retreated to the town. No planes can land in Khost.
  Haqani called upon the people of Khost, who have been used as human shields by the Kabul regime for the past 12 years, to make use of the Mujahideen's general amnesty and join to the Mujahideen.
  In response to a question about the Mujahideen's unity, Haqani said that the Khost operation is directed by a 23-member committee which is comprised of representatives of the seven main Mujahideen organizations. He said: "Despite the launching of 40
 SCUD missiles, heavy air bombardment, and thousands of mines, the Mujahideen have been steadily advancing towards the city during the past 10 days. They have driven away regime forces from the first and second security belts around the besieged city."
  On the significance of the Khost battle, Mawlawi Haqani said that Khost's liberation will bring a change in the present so-called "stalemate" situation and herald a new season of Mujahideen activities and achievements. It will dampen the morale of the puppet regime troops . Liberation of Khost will also lead to the siege of Gardez, the provincial capital of Paktia, and take the Mujahideen a step closer to Kabul. Lasdy, he said, the liberation of Khost will take thousands of people out from under the oppression and tyranny of the Kabul puppet regime.
  Haqani called upon the Mujahideen leaders and commanders to show practical compassion and sympathy with those who surrender to the Mujahideen in accordance with general amnesty offered by the Mujahideen. He also requested the Mujahideen commanders to intensify their operations against those regime forces which do not surrender.
  • ••
  This interview took place on March 23 , ten days after the start of the latest operation on the Khost front.
Najib woos neighbors, US
  The Kabul regime has offered economic and cultural incentives to improve relations with neighboring countries and the USA.
  In his New Year's message, Najibullah called for economic cooperation between Pakistan and Afghanistan. He said Pakistan could benefit from trade to USSR and Europe through Afghanistan and that Pakistani businessmen could invest in Afghanistan.
  Showing happiness about improvement of relations with Iran, he said relations between Tehran and Kabul had entered a dynamic phase. He proposed formation of a ministerial committee for exploring fields of cooperation between the two countries.
  Najib noted the opening of a Turkish language department at Kabul University as a step towards greater cooperation with Turkey.
  Describing the present Chinese policy on Afghanistan as "realistic," Najib asked for the resumption of Chinese as-
 sistance to Kabul.
  He appealed for the United States to resume its cooperation with his government. He said cooperation in the field of narcotics control and education could be the first step. He invited a group of US congressmen to visit Kabul.
  Najib said nothing about Kabul's relation with Delhi, because he is aware of Afghans' anti-Delhi feelings because of India's pro-regime policies.
  About relations with Soviet Union, he said his government was trying to strengthen them to the level of pre-war links. This is a clear admission of the strong anti-Russian feelings of Afghans generated due to the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan.
  To patronize his western audience, Najib talked in length about steps taken to improve human rights situation in Afghanistan. He promised formation of "National Human Rights Commission" and a committee to improve prisons and prisoners' conditions.
 From Page (3)
 suiting me, in the way ignorant people do, when they ran out of arguments. He swore. I answered back. He grabbed me by the collar. 1 took him by the beard. The other guests moved away, laughing.
  To cut a long story short, we went to the Islamic judge, for him to give a ruling on the respective merits of the rich and the poor.
  After hearing our arguments, the judge lowered his head in contemplation. Finally he looked up and addressed me: "You who praised the rich and damned the poor, know that after wine drinking comes a hang-over, that royal pearls are guarded by man-eating sharks, and that the pleasures of this world are followed by the terrors of death. Just as you find dry wood and musk-willow together in a garden, so among the rich, you find generous and grateful as well as ungenerous and ungrateful; among the poor, you find both the patient and humble as well as those who impatiently grumble. The wealthy who live simply like the poor and the poor who live fearlessly like the rich are both close to God. Among the rich, the best man is he who helps the poor; among the poor, the best man is he who does not pester the rich. Whoever trusts in God, God will surely come to his help."
  The judge then turned from me to the dervish and said:’’You are right. Many rich people care only about themselves and forget both God the Creator and their fellow men His creatures. They are not grateful for what they have received nor do they have any desire to help those less fortunate than themselves. I’m alright Jack, is their motto. 8Even if the whole world should starve, I have enough to eat! Why should a duck fear water? Yes, but they are not the only ones. There also those who are hospitable and generous, who have a good name in this world and the hope of forgiveness in the next."
  The judgeVthus reconciled us and made us exchange the kiss of peace. Finally he said: “Accept your fate! Do not complain! Or else, you'll be in everlasting, pain. If yoii are wealthy in this world, enjoy yourself, give generously, then enter Heaven's dqmain.”
  ~ ■ ■ -------------------\— ~ •
AFGHANews Vpl 7, No 7, April 1,1991, page 0
 Obituaries
 Sayyed Rasool
    Sayyed Rasool, 45, the former General Director of Radio Department of AIG, was killed by a parcel bomb in Kulangar District, Logar Province, on March 21, MEDIA reported.
    The bomb was concealed in a book which was sent to him as gift. The book was given to a local shopkeeper by an unknown person to be given to him. When he opened the parcel the bomb went off.
    Sayyed Rasool had resigned from his job in AIG about nine months ago and went to Kulangar to lead his.group of Mujahideen.
    He played an active role in the 12-year Jehad of the Afghans against the Russians and the communist regime.
    Sayyed Rasool was studying Political Science in India when the communists took power in. Kabul. He 1 left his studies incomplete and joined the Mujahideen. He served in various positions in Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. For a while, he served as the editor of "Mujahid", the official party organ. He has written many books and articles. Lastly, he served as the head of the Radio Department of AIG.
    Mr. Sayyed Rasool was active in the armed struggle as well. A group of Mujahideen in Kulangar supported him. He was elected head of the Mujahideen council of Kulangar about six months ago. It is believed thatr KHAD planned his assassination using a new method never used before against the Mujahideen.
    Sayyed Rasool has left behind a widow, four minor sons and two daughters.
 Cmdr. Sanaullah
    Sanaullah, 28, the commander of a heavy-weapons unit of the Supervisory Council (SC) was killed in action in Takhar Province on March 1.
    Cmdr. Sanaullah finished his primary and secondary studies in Kabul and came to Peshawar in 1981. After graduation from the military academy of Jami'at he started to work as an instructor in the same school.
    Sanaullah went to the North in 1985 to take part in Jehad in the ranks of the SC. Before being appointed the commander of one of the heavy weapon units of the army of the SC, he served as the organizer of various seminars and also in the logistics section of the army.
    Sanaullah was bom in Qala-i-Beland village of Bagram District, Parwan Province. He belonged to a re-
-W ■

. (Top) Sayyed Rasool.( Bottom) Sanaullah.
spectable family. His father, Mawlawi Sebghatullah, had served as a judge in Balkh, Jawzjan and other provinces. His grandfather, Mawlawi Abdul Ghani, known as the Mawlawi of Qala-i-Beland, was a great Islamic scholar of his time.
    Sanaullah has five brothers. He was not married.
Ibrahim Kandahari
    Mohammad Ibrahim Kandahari, 75, a senior Afghan citizen and the former head of the State Publishing Department of Afghanistan, died of heartattack in Paris on March 11.
    Kandahari was visiting Paris on the way from Peshawar to Washington when he died. He lived in the US as a refugee. His body was flown to Washington for burial
    Among ordinary Afghans, Kandahari was more famous for his astrological skills rather than his publishing services.
   Youth seminar
 j A three-day seminar, discussing the role of youth in the future of Afghanistan, ended on March 9 in Islamabad.
  In the seminar, organized jointly by the Institute of Policy Studies (Islamabad) and the Islamic Cultural Center (Peshawar), about 400 Afghan youths took part. They were mainly students of schools and colleges. Some Mujahideen leaders and Figures of Islamic movements from other countries spoke on the occasion. Youths belonging to Jami'at Islami Afghanistan participated in the seminar. The conference debated the role of Muslim youth in support of Jehad and the future of Afghanistan. The conference ended after passing a number of resolutions calling for the unity -of the Mujahideen and the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
  Shalbi killed in N.Y.
  Mustafa Shalbi, 42, the head of the Services Office for Mujahideen in New York, has been killed by unknown persons, an official of the Services Office reported in Peshawar.
  He said Mustafa, an Egyptian, has been involved collecting funds for the Afghan Mujahideen for the last six years. The Services Office in Peshawar was headed by the late Abdullah Ezam, who was killed, along with his two sons, in bomb explosion in Peshawar in November 1989.
   The Services officer said Mustafa might have been killed by supporters of Rabbi Meir Kahane, an extremist Zionist who was killed by unknown men in New York some time ago. Kahane's supporters suspected Mustafa's involvement in that incident
 Envoy meets Shias
  Nikolai Pazirov, a Soviet special envoy, has met with Hezb-i-Wahdat-i-Islami leaders in Teheran to discuss the Afghan issue. The details of the talks are hot available.
  He said Iranian and Soviet views on Afghanistan are converging. This is the first meeting of a Mujahideen group with a Soviet envoy since November of 1988. The Mujahideen held several rounds of talks with Yuli Vorontsov, the than Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, before the withdrawal of the Soviet troops were completed. The talks failed to bring to the two sides together.
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 7, April 1,1991, page ©
WUFA Seminar discusses
     A three-day seminar on "Rebuilding Afghan Political and Legal Institutions" ended on March 11 in Peshawar.The seminar was organized by the Writers Union of Free: Afghanistan (WUFA) in cooperation with USAID, the Asia Foundation and the Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees.
     The seminar was inaugurated by Amir Gulistan Ginjua, the governor of NWFP. Praising the courage of Afghans in their fight for freedom, he said Afghans should be allowed to determine their future government and rebuild their legal, economic, social and political institutions according to their own perceptions.
     Many Afghan, Pakistani, western and other Asian scholars took part in the deliberations of the seminar, which were attended by a selected number of Afghans. No French scholars were present.
     Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minster of Pakistan and the leader of the opposition in the National Assembly of Pakistan, addressing the final panel of the seminar, said that despite Pakistanis' encouragement the AIG had not improved its performance, and the Mujahideen were riddled with differences. She said disappointment about the AIG's performance, differences between major Mujahideen groups and fear of Islamic fundamentalism in the West caused a sharp decline in international support and sympathy for the Mujahideen.
     She described the chances of the Mujahideen's military victory over the Kabul regime as slim, but was of the view that military operations might help a political solution.
     Quoting American sources, she said that US aid for the Afghan Mujahideen will not be available beyond 1991.
     She said relations between Iran and Kabul regime were improving steadily and gave the following examples in support of her statement:
     •      Landing of Najib's plane in Mesh'had
     •      Iran’s food aid for the victims of recent floods in Afghanistan
     •landing facilities for ARIANA, regime civil airline, in Iran
     •      Close contacts between Iranian diplomats in Kabul and some minsters of regime
     She said Iran is no longer opposed
 to a settlement in which the PDPA (including Najibullah) was a part of. She further said that while Iran played a marginal role during the war, it wants to secure a position of influence in post-war Afghanistan.
     About the role of the Soviet Union, Mrs. Bhutto said the Kabul regime survived as a result of the massive Soviet economic and military assistance, which reached $350 million per month.
     She said the Soviet position in Afghanistan had hardened in recent months due to the increased influence of the military in Moscow. She suggested that Pakistan should refrain from interference in Afghan affairs because it would have a terrible impact on present bonds of friendship between the two people.
     She recommended that Pakistan should take the following steps in regards to the Afghan issue:
     •     honor the Geneva accords in letter and spirit;
     •      pursue a peaceful political settlement of the Afghan issue;
     •      Establish cordial relations with any regime which comes to
        power in Afghanistan through fair and free elections; and
     ■extend support for the reconstruction of Afghanistan.
     The head of the Kabul regime quickly reacted to the statement by Benazir and praised her for what he called "her political realism". Najib, however, chided Bhutto for her role in the Jalalabad attack, which was launched when she was in power.
     The seminar had some other interesting aspects too:
     Although it was organized by a pro-Zahir Shah organization, and a member of royal family took part in it, the role of Zahir Shah in the future of Afghanistan was not a major topic of discussion.
     The seminar witnessed to a verbal clash between a speaker and some members of Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar party). A speaker's criticism of the Mujahideen political leaders brought a sharp reaction from the Hezb members. Police intervened to calm the situation.
     The seminar succeeded in one of its aims: bringing back the Afghan issue to the attention of the media.
  aid to Kabul
  The Turkish Red Cross has donated relief goods worth $40,000 to the victims of the earthquake and floods in Afghanistan.
  The goods were flown to Kabul and handed over to the Red Crescent Society of the Kabul regime.
  Turkey's donations are a response to the UN call for assistance to the victims of earthquake and flood. But goods will not reach the real victims, the majority of whom live in the Mujahideen-controlled      areas.
 Furthermore, any move like this will be used by the Kabul regime for political purposes.
  It would have been more appropriate to deliver the goods to Mujahideen or UN agencies for distribution to make sure that they reach the needy people.
  The donation to Kabul was given few days before Turkey and USSR singed the friendship treaty. It seems that Turkey's 'humanitarian aid' to Kabul was friendly gesture towards Moscow.
  India has sent relief goods worth $100,000 to Kabul for the victims of the recent earthquake and floods. The goods, which included medicine and blanket, woe flown to Kabul and were handed over to the regime authorities.
  France has given a donation of one million francs to the victims of the earthquake.
    9~(dp us puiCisk WgMS&fews!
                                     Please send your donations to tfe foUbzoing account number:
                                             jPSHM)
                                         Account 735-37 (MaBiB 'Banf^Ltd.
                                        “TifikaC Bala, (Peshawar Pakistan

Jmi
I fill fi!
si lli&i is**®
?jk 'x i Z. I i ppliill PS '\ '
pp 1 1 fti I r’/P r?i i i | i
 ^ %|i %p . •■vsw jpi ly %y^iiPr-3
lIllBlIBliil^ll^Bl
pp:is
:     Jk Jpt
iisfl^iiiipiM



 Vol 7, No 8
 April 15,1991
Khost is liberated
     Afghan Mujahideen captured Khost on March 31. They seized more than 2,000 regime soldiers and officers and a large quantity of arms and ammunition, including tanks, armored cars, helicopters, light and heavy guns. The Mujahideen and refugees celebrated the fall of Khost as a major victory, while the Kabul regime announced one day of mourning for its loss.
     Khost District is located about 150 kilometers southeast of Kabul and about 25 kilometers, from the Pakistan border. Khost was considered a strong base of the communist regime not only because of its strong garrison, but because its population suported the communist regime in Kabul. It was the home of some of the present PDPA leaders and was nicknamed "Little Moscow".
     Since the beginning of the communist coup, Khost has beat one of the Mujahideen's targets. Its land routes have been cut since 1986 and it has been supplied mostly by air.
     The Mujahideen offensive which led to the liberation of Khost began on March 13, three days before the start of the holy month of - Ramadhan. Ramadhan is normally characterized by lower military activities, and launching a decisive offensive during Ramadhan may have surprised the enemy. There are signs that the Kabul regime knew that Mujahideen were planning an attack on Khost; reinforcements had been sent to join the defenders.
     The Mujahideen started their attack with a massive three-day rocket barrage on the garrison town and followed this with ground attacks from all sides.
     All the Mujahideen parties (including Jami'at) took part in the attack, and the war was conducted by a 23-member council of local commanders. Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani played a key role in leading the battle against the regime at Khost
     Simultaneously, the Mujahideen
                                                   Cmdr. Jalaluddintfaqqani played the leading role in liberation of Khost.
attacked neighboring Jaji Maidan District and some other sub-districts around Khost and liberated them one after the other. Their fall isolated Khost further and cut off its vital supplies of food smuggled from Pakistan, a trade directed by tribes sympathetic to the regime, living along the border between the two countries.
    The Mujahideen made effective use of artillery and tanks in the Khost operation. The primary purpose of the offensive was to capture the strategic posts around Khost, bringing the airfields undo' fire so that the city's air link with Kabul was cut Advanced preparations and short supply lines helped the Mujahideen to achieve their objective.
    The major weakness of the regime garrison was its isolation. Once the city airport was in the range of the Mujahideen's artillery, resupplying Khost became extremely dangerous. The regime tried to supply the city during the night, but during these operations lost many transport planes in addition a number of helicopters and jets.
    Rainy weather also made the regime's task of supplying and defending Khost more difficult. Kabul relied very much on the use of SCUD and Frog missiles to slow down the Mujahideen's advance.
     Najibullah, the head of the Kabul Tegime, has complained that the Khalq faction betrayed him by collaboration with the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen, however, have not admitted such collaboration.
     Hezb Islami Hikmatyar in 1990 had planned to capture Khost with the help of supporters of Shah Nawaz Tanai, the former defence minister of PDPA and Khalqi leader who had defected to Hikmatyar after an abotive coup in March of that year. But other Mujahideen groups opposed the move and preferred an all-out military operation involving all Mujahideen.
     Preliminary reports from the Mujahideen say that more than two thousand regime soldiers, officers and militiamen were captured in the operation and the Mujahideen seized huge quantities of arms and ammunition. A 13-member committee has been set up by the local Mujahideen commandos to distribute the captured equipment among the Mujahideen groups. Each group will get a share proportionate to its fighting strength.
     About 500 of the captured regime troops were wounded. They and other prisoners were transferred to safe areas, and the wounded were provided with medical assistance. The Mujahideen asked ICRC to help the wounded prisoners. It is said around 300 regime troops were killed during the operation.
     The Mujahideen casualties are said to light but so far no figures are available.
     Reports speak of proper treatment of prisoners of war by the Mujahideen, and an absence of looting and undisciplined behavior .after the defeat of the regime troops. This is a positive development because the press and some international organizations concerned with human rights had critic cized the Mujahideen’s behavior in areas liberated in the past. Some papers had predicted a similar situation after
               Turn to page (5)
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
—The Battlefields
 Herat Province
    •      Five militiamen were killed and 10 were injured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked them in Adraskan District on March 14. Regime forces retaliated with heavy bombing of the villages controlled by the Mujahideen killing at least 20 civilians and inflicting heavy material losses on the people.
    •       A militia group of 60 men joined the Mujahideen of Jami’at in Dobrather area of Adraskan District on March 29. The group handed over the following weapons and equipment to the Mujahideen:
    •   Mortar (82 mm):l ■ Recoilless rifle (82 mm):l
    •  Heavy machine guns: 24
    •  ZPU gun (14.6 mm):l
    •  Kalashnikov rifles:45
    •  Pistol: 2
    •  Ammunition boxes: 20
    •  Truck: 3
    •  Motorcycle: 6
    According to Mujahideen sources the group defected after negotiations were held between the two sides.
 Faryab Province
    The Mujahideen of Arbab Hafizullah liberated Chichkatoo area of Qaysar District on March 10, Hindukush News Agency reported. They seized the following weapons:
    •  Kalashnikov rifles: 150
    •  P.K. machine guns: 5
    •  RPG rocket launchers: 4
    •  Ammunition (different types): 250,000
    •  Truck: 1
    •  Food: 7 tons
    More than 150 regime men were killed, wounded or captured in the operation.
    Earlier, the Mujahideen had liberated several other areas in Qaysar from control of the militias.
    Until recently, the regime militias in Qaysar were so confident about the
 situation there that they took part in operations outside the province. The recent operations have greatly reduced their strength. Operations against the militias still continue.
 Balkh Province
    One Kabul regime soldier was killed and five woe captured by the Mujahideen of Jami'at in Charbolak District on March 25.
    The Mujahideen seized five Kalashnikov rifles, one ZPU gun (14.6 mm), one P.K machine gun, one T.T pistol and some ammunition. The Mujahideen suffered no casualties.
 Takhar Province
    General Director of KHAD in Takhar, Major General Kabir Dalil, Chief of Staff of Division No. 55, and Deputy General Director of KHAD of that Division were killed in a mine explosion in Khwaja Ghar District on March 26, Hindukush News Agency reported.
     General Dalil and his colleagues were travelling in a jeep. Rashid, a local militia commander, and some militiamen were also wounded in the incident.
     It should be noted that after liberation of Taliqan by the Mujahideen in summer 1988, the Kabul regime moved the administrative headquarters of Takhar province to Khwaja Ghar, about 40 kilometers from Taliqan and close to the Soviet border.
     In a separate incident, Mujahideen of the Supervisory Council, who had infiltrated the ranks of regime troops, blew up two BM-21 rocket launchers with time bombs inside the Khwaja Ghar on March 29.
     Kabul TV showed the burial, ceremony of General Dalil in Kabul, admitting that he was killed in a mine explosion.
 Ghor Province
     •Eight enemy soldiers were killed and one was captured when the Mujahideen of Jami'at attacked an enemy post in Sharak District on March 25. Two Mujahideen sustained injuries.
     •The Mujahideen of Jami'at under the commander of Mawlawi Musa killed twenty militiamen and their com mander, Abdul Ghafur, and captured their post on western part of Chikhcharan on April 3.
     The Mujahideen seized the following weapons:
     •Tank: 1
     •Kalashnikov rifles: 60
     •Carabine rifles: 50
     ■ P.K machine guns: 4
     The Mujahideen suffered no casualties, but 15 civilians were injured in the retaliatory attack by the enemy.
Arms used to kill Afghans displayed
                                               "I used this in Afghanistan; it was Soviet soldiers in Germany have been
good," said Captain Andri Stoikow, pointing to a weapon in a Soviet base in Germany.
     Soviet army opened 20 garrisons in Germany to public in a bid to improve relations with the hostile local population.
     Many new weapons were shown to the people, some used in Afghanistan.
 accused of illegal and indisciplined activities. More than 100 Soviet servicemen and their families have asked Goman authorities for political asylum.
     The Soviet Union has 380,000 men in Germany, who are to be withdrawn from that country by 1994.
Veterans dispute official death figures
 Anders Fange A
    I watched a TV program about Afghan veterans and their organiztion in the Soviet Union( on Swedish TV). Some interesting figures were mentioned in an interview with one of the leaders of the veteran organiztion. He said the true figures of the Soviet troops who died in Afghanistan were 32,000. He said he had proof that Soviet soldiers were still in Afghanistan as late as July 1990. The
 program also gave the account of the living conditions of Afghanistan veterans. It was said that in Leningrad there were 6,000 veterans who were jobless and supported themselves through criminal activities or selling medals and uniforms to tourists.
      (Mr. Fange directed the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan’s Peshawar office from 1984 to 1990, and travelled extensively in Afghanistan as a journalist before that.)
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
Wisdom
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
II1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIII1III
Truth saves trickster
     A trickster once entered a city with the caravan of pilgrims return* ing from the Hijaz. He wore the special turban of the Seyyeds, thus claiming to be a descendent of the Prophet and also to be a pilgrim. When he came before the ruler of the city, he recited a long ode.
     One of the courtiers had been travelling that year and exclaimed: "I saw this man in Basra this last Eid - how can he have been a pilgrim in Mecca?" Another courtier joined in and I knew his father - he was a Christian from Malatya - how can he beaSeyyed?"
     Finally, the court poet found his ode already published in the Diwan of Anwari.
     The ruler ordered the trickster to
 be beaten and thrown out, exclaiming: "Why ever did you tell so many lies?"
     He replied: "O lord of all the world, let me tell you something else. If that is not quite true, I will have deserved whatever punishment you choose to give me."
     "And what is that, pray?" asked the ruler.
     " If a stranger brings you a bowl of . yoghurt, be sure that most of it is water with a mere spoonful of sour milk added! If I spoke foolishly, be not offended - die traveller’s tale with many lies is
     The king laughed and said: "You never spoke a truer word in your life!" And he ordered his treasurer to give the trickster the honorarium he had hoped for.
Holding one's tongue calls for courage
    One of the Caliph Harun-ur-Rashid's sons came to his father in a foul temper. He said: "One of your officer's sons has cast aspersions on my birth and on my mother's virtue!"
    The Caliph summoned his courtiers and asked: "What is the punishment for such an offence?"
    Some of them gestured to have the culprit beheaded, others to have his tongue pulled out; still others suggested expropriation of all his goods; yet others exile.
 Mahmood's wise Wazir
    A group of Sultan Mahmood's courtiers asked the Minister Hasan Meymandi: " What did the king tell you today about such and such a matter?" "I expect you already know,” he answered. "No," they said. "The things he tells you, he would never share with die likes of us!" "Precisely," the minister said. "He knows I never repeat what he says in private and therefore he trusts me. So why do you bother asking?"
    A man of confidence does not indulge in tittle-tattle.
    Spilling the beans starts no little battle!
     The Caliph turned to his son and said: "My son! A generous man would forgive; but if you cannot do this, you too go and call him a bastard! Thus you will have your revenge and we will not be guilty of tyrannical excesses. It is not courage, but mere folly to pick a quarrel with a raging elephant In my experience, real courage is to control your tongue even when you are in a temper."
     A wise man once was insulted by a fool. He calmly replied: "My friend, I may be worse than what you say I am; I know my inner faults better than you ever can."
                      AFGHAN
                     PROVERBS
                                                                                                                                 A*
    If you don't recognize God, at least know Him by His power.
    Meaning: A person who doesn't believe in God should know He exists by His works in nature.
    JmjJ ^6*
                                                                                                                 ♦ i*>ii>( 4$ 4dt* 4^
                           V*
    When God gives. He doesn't ask whose son a person is.
    Meaning: God blesses without partiality or without regard for rank or importance.
                                                                                                                          ^ j*
    To everyone his own country is Kashmir.
    Meaning: East, West, home is best.
It 4i 4^
  ,/J
     I will sacrifice myself for you when I am free from work.
 <*■
  V
     Meaning: Business first, friendship afterwards.

 AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page 0

                   'x. ' y / y r ;                               ^Wu"-    ll>    ,    .4,,
                       \4 I ~ \ m U                                               ^Ajs,  ,
                   v.v.v.v.v.v.'.'.v.v.v.'.’.'.’.v.v.v.-....
                                               &■<£}«>'     Sv  X.^\N  -■   S ^    jf,/  s
                                          /j.         ..  v,  v &*"' o      , S
                                        ':%Sf- ?##- '•'•4
                                            , >5^'               W)   --             <5
  Editorial
Liberation of Khost to usher more gains for Mujahideen
    The liberation of Khost is a major victory for the Mujahideen and if exploited wisely, could bring to an end the current stalemate in Afghanistan.
    Khost garrison fell to the Mujahideen on March 31, after a siege of the city which lasted for about 12 years. A large number of enemy troops woe captured along with a. great quantity of aims and ammunition. The Mujahideen's casualties were believed to be light.
    The key factors in the fall of Khost were coordination of the operation, good planning and proper timing.
    Preliminary reports from Khost say that the Mujahideen behaved responsibly in dealing with the prisoners of war and there were no reports of looting or personal revenge. Prisoners were provided with necessary medical assistance.
    This deprived the Kabul regime of a propaganda tool against the Mujahideen and improved the world image of the Afghan resistance. It will have a positive effect on the regime's soldiers, and make their surrender easier in future operations. The fall of Khost inflicted a severe blow on the morale of the Kabul regime, which announced a day of mourning.
    The major task now facing the Mujahideen is consolidating their victory and using it to intensify military operations against the Kabul regime. In addition to adopting necessary defensive measures in Khost, the Mujahideen need to engage other enemy garrisons so that the regime will have no opportunity to recapture the town.
    The key question for the Mujahideen is: How to use Khost victory to break the current stalemate? They need to maintain the current military momentum. Weather conditions and attitudes in the country are ripe for an escalation of military activities all over Afghanistan. The Mujahideen victory at Khost will incite the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan to launch attacks on the Kabul regime so that they are not left behind in the liberation of Afghanistan.
    The council of commanders can play a coordinating role in this phase of the war. Commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, who played the key role in liberation of Khost and who is the current chairman of the CC, can take the initiative to coordinate operations all over Afghanistan.
    The Mujahideen should not become so overconfident as a result of their victory that they underestimate the difficulties ahead of them. Shortages of supplies and organizational difficulties should be addressed properly. If the Mujahideen choose several weak points of the enemy and attack them simultaneously, they can surely achieve their objectives.
    Jimi'at believes that intensification of war is a must, in order to fulfill the Afghan people's reasonable demand that the Kabul regime be forced to transfer power to a representative body, as a first step towards establishment of a permanent government in Afghanistan. Without powerful military pressure neither the Soviets nor their puppet government will be ready to accept the transfer of power. The last two years' experiences have shown that the Mujahideen's military weakness has been what keeps Afghans from achieving self-determination.
    The fall of Khost sent a clear message to Gorbachev that pouring food, fuel and arms into Kabul will not keep the regime in control of the situation. If the Soviets are interested in a stable Afghanistan having normal relations with its neighbors, they should not waste their resources in support of the doomed Kabul regime. Peace will not come to Afghanistan as long as the communists stay in power. Gorbachev must also realize that sending SCUD missiles to Kabul to be used against Afghans is unbefitting fcr a recent recipient of the Nobel peace prize. The world community should put pressure on Moscow to change its Afghan policy so that.Afghans can decide their own future -- something for 'which they have fought for more than a decade.
    The Soviet Withdrawal from Afghanistan
    Edited by Amin Saikal and William Maley
    Cambridge University Press Price £6.95
    The Soviet Withdrawal from Afghanistan is a collection of highly topical essay by nine teachers at universities, seven in Australia and two in the United States. Amin Saikal (the only Afghan of the nine) writes on the regional politics of the Afghan crisis. Saikal gives a clear overview of the interest and policies of the regional states, and is notably critical about India's policies followed over the issue of Afghan independence since 1979.
    A chapter of Soviet domestic politics by TH Rigby starts with the premise that the withdrawal is unlikely to have any profound domestic effects in the Soviet Union. But Rigby goes on to say it might do exactly the opposite. The indirect impact could be "incalculable'’, given serious disorders in Central Asia, nationalist movements and economic unrest among workers elsewhere in the Soviet Union. All three, of course, are taking place now before amazed eyes.
    Geoffrey Jukes, writing on the Soviet armed forces and the Afghan war, downplays the importance of the Soviet Union and its armed farces alike of the Afghan war. The actual decision to withdraw, maintains Jukes, was not prompted by military necessity, but by a political decision in Moscow. The Soviets' lack of success in the Afghan guerrilla war will probably increase the trend towards avoidance of Soviet involvement in regional conflicts.
    The American anthropologist and long-term resident of Kabul, the late Louis Dupree, is also presented. His chapter raises ten possible political scenarios, ranging from lively to frankly improbable. Dupree's own conclusion is characteristically upbeat; "The Afghans will decide their own future; and outside interference will not be tolerated. Ask the Soviets."
    The failure of the UN-sponsored Geneva accords to achieve their stated goals is the subject Of two incisive chapters. William Maley ' queries whether they were, indeed, die best ob-
             Tum to page (7)
AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
Khost is liberated
                                                              From page (1)
 the fall of Khost But the Mujahideen’s disciplined behavior, during and after the liberation of Khost, deprived the Kabul regime of a destructive propaganda weapon against the resistance.
     The fighting forced some residents of Khost and adjoining districts to migrate to Pakistan. More than 1200 families crossed the border into Pakistan. They are mainly the families of militias who supported the Kabul regime.
     The liberation of Khost was Celebrated by the Mujahideen and refugees.
 It provided hope for well-wishers of the Afghan resistance. All the Mujahideen leaders, including Prof. Rabbani, congratulated the Mujahideen for the major victory during the holy month of Ramadhan.
     The defeat dealt a heavy blow to the Kabul regime. Najib, dismayed by the performance of his troops, could not admit the defeat explicitly, saying only that he had lost radio links with the city. As predicted, he blamed foreign intervention, and announced a day of mourning. This is the first time in the history of the PDPA that a mourning day has been announced and it shows the degree the regime has suffered from the fall of Khost
     Radio Moscow announced the fall of Khost more explicitly. Moscow and Kabul accused Pakistan of breaking the Geneva Accords by providing assistance to the Afghan Mujahideen. The Kabul foreign minister sent two letters to the UN Secretary General, asking him to stop Pakistan's interference. The UN Secretary General expressed concern over the escalation of hostilities. Hfc representative, Benon Sevan, met with Najib in Kabul, and said the situation in Khost emphasized the need for a political solution.
      Pakistan has rejected the charges of direct involvement in the fighting, and asked the UN to stop the Kabul regime from bombing Khost after its liberation because it caused casualties among the civilians.
      Radio Kabul reported that Najib had asked the Iranian and Turkish presidents to stop Pakistan from interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. Similar letters were also sent to other heads of states.
      The liberation of Khost has military, as well as political, benefits for the Mujahideen. Capturing an enormous amount of arms and ammunition, at a time when outside assistance is decreasing, will increase the Mujahideen's strength. The morale of
 regime troops and supporters will fall. The Mujahideen have regained their self-confidence. It will bring about positive competition among the Mujahideen for further military achievements against the regime, which will result in increased fighting all over Afghanistan.
     The Mujahideen's victory in Khost has increased world media's interest in Jehad, which was pushed into the background by the lack of military activities and the dramatic events in the Gulf and other parts of the world.
     The war in Khost revealed the involvement of hundreds of Pakistani tribesmen in support of the Kabul regime in Khost. According to Pakistani journalist Rahimullah Yusufzai, the Malik Khel, a Shia Pushtun tribe in Kurram Agency, have long had close ties with Kabul. They have provided the regime with mercenaries and smuggled food from Pakistan to the besieged garrison at Khost and its surrounding areas. Other tribes along the border have been also supported the regime in return for money and arms. Jamiat-i-Ulama-i-Islam (Fazul Rahman group) has been trying to prevent the tribal people from helping die communists.
     After the fall of Khost, the regime began bombing the town. It also fired long-range rockets into the town, causing some casualties.
     Some Mujahideen of Khost are unhappy about the way Hezb Island Hikmatyar exploited the victory for their own benefit Hezb exaggerated the role of its fighters in the fighting, and there are also complaints that they seized more than their fair share of captured equipment
     The Kabul regime blamed the so-called fundamentalist parties for the fall of Khost and tried to appease the so-called moderate parties (with one of which it claimed to have held talks in Geneva). But at Khost, Mujahideen from all parties took pari, destroying regime hopes regarding its reconciliation efforts.
     The Mujahideen victory has been welcomed by their foreign supporters, including United States. The Awami National Party of Pakistan, led by Begum Naseem Wali Khan, and its students' wing were the only mourners in the Pakistani side of the border. They criticized what they called interference by the Pakistan government in Afghan internal matters. The ANP has close ties with the Kabul regime and Moscow, and never questioned the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan by the Red Army.
 iPliBl
on March 27 in a check for $25,000 to the UN
  □ted over half a million doUais to the UN emergency fund for Afghanistan.                   WM
  L Three Swiss ICRG woAits held
   , a «ezb istami under in Kandahar were freed after 75 days in captivity on March 29.
       An ICRC statement said they
           ___A        ^ „_____________
   ■The government <rf Japan will provide one million dollars worth of iaid to victims of the earthquake and floods in Afghanistan through the World Food Program. The fund will | used for procurement of whead



   ,y • ,    '   * • ^ ^ ^      * <
  | The UN High Commissioner for [Refugees (UNHCR) has decided to suspend aid to the two Afghan refugee camps of Pishin and Gulistan in
  organization were robbed of their!
 armed men on April 3.
Ill
  % ,,ThejSatu£ gpvermpittfets [tended an invitation to the President [of the Afghan Interim Government, Professor Sibghatolhb Mnjaddidt, tm [visit that country.              ■
      The US ambassador, Robert Oakley, and Peter Tomsen, the US special envoy to the Afghan rests-;ta®c:e, called on Prof. Mujaddi<fe::*i Peshawar recently to thank him for sending a group of MtpMdoen td take part In the war against Iraq. I Prof. Mujaddidi’s decision to sent Mujahideen to Saadi Arabia has improved his relations with Saudi] Arabia and the United States. ' _ •••
      The female newscasters of Kabul TV have started to cover their heads. | This might be a temporary step to] show respect for the holy month of
   Ramadhan. Women working in the ;
  I Kabul regime’s institutions wear Iweslem ciothes. They normally do not cover their head&ff      • l|jj
1
 AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page ©
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
Commander Mohammad Daud Zalali
     Mohammad Daud Zalali, 33, has served as a commander under Ahmad Shah Masood, training and organizing Masood's followers outside the Panjsher Valley.
     Daud was bom into a Pushtu-speaking Arab family in Beland Ghar village of Behsud, Jalalabad. His father, Meher Ali Khan , was an officer in the Afghan army.
     Daud finished primary school and high school in Jalalabad. He was a second year student of the Faculty of Economics of the Kabul University before becoming a refugee.
     Daud's father was jailed for five years by President Daud on charges of having a hand in an attempt to topple the Afghan government. He was released two months before the communists took over in 1978. and after the coup prepared to go into exile.
     Daud migrated to Peshawar, Pakistan, along with his family in 1982. In exile, he listened to the radio to get information about the situation in Afghanistan. He heard many stories about the fighting in Panjshir and the way the Mujahideen had organized themselves. He was impressed by Commander Masood's way of fighting the Soviet invaders.
     He wanted to join Masood and fight for the liberation of his country. Lieutenant Tahir Khan, who worked in the military Committee of Jami'at Islami Afghanistan and had met with Commander Masood, introduced Daud to one of Masood's brothers, Ahmad Zia, who gave Daud an introduction letter to take to Masood.
     Daud left for Panjshir in 1984 via the Nooristan route. It took him 14 hard days to reach the valley, half of which was occupied by the Soviets. Two days after Dadd's arrival, the Soviets launched the 9th offensive against the valley. Commander Masood was in the lower part of Panjshir.
     At the end of the attack, he met with Masood in Safidcher, a village in the upper part of the valley. After welcoming him, Masood asked Daud about the purpose of his trip. Daud said he had come to fight against the Soviets.
     He spent about one year with Commander Masood serving as one of his bodyguards. In the meantime, he participated in many operations against the enemy posts around Pushghoor garrison.
     When Masood formed the Central Units of the Supervisory Council,
 Mohammd Daud Zalali
 Daud joined the force. Mujahideen from Panjshir, Kabul, Logar and North joined the force.
    Daud recalls the first years of stay in Panjshir as very useful. Most of the Mujahideen in his unit woe experienced . Their friendly behavior made Daud to forget the agony of being away from his family and comfort of Peshawar. "This was the place I wanted to be," Daud recalled.
    Daud served in die third Central Unit commanded by Muslim. He took part in Nahreen operation commanding a 107 mm rocket launcher. He also took part in/the capture of Kalafgan garrison.
    Daud spent six months in Salang in 1985 with rest of his friends. They launched many attacks against the Soviet and regime convoys in Salang.
    Towards the end of 1985, he attended a training course in Namak Aab, taught by Commander Masood. Before that, he had attended some other training classes and had learned basic military tactics. In the same year he was promoted to the post of deputy commander of the 3rd Unit
    One year later the Mujahideen of this unit were transferred to other Central Units so that new Mujahideen could benefit from their experiences. Daud became the commander of the 1st Unit.
    He then was assigned to reorganize and train SC Mujahideen in Laghman , Tagab and Nijrab, East of Panjshir. In Nijrab, he trained 60 Mujahideen in the use of heavy weapons., In Tagab, he taught two training courses, one for three months and another for 6 months, and trained a total of 100 men in infantry tactics, organizational management and use of heavy weapons. He limited his activities to the border of Tagab and Laghman because relations between local Hezb and
 Jami'at Mujahideen were very tense. Masood had told Daud not involve himself in local politics.
     In 1988, Masood and Tariq agreed that a Unit of the Central force be sent to Laghman for training and reorganization Of Jami'at Mujahideen. Daud was assigned the job but before his departure. Commander Tariq was killed by Hezb men, and Daud cancelled his trip. After spending one year in the area, Daud and his Mujahideen were summoned to Panjshir: He took part in meeting of commanders from north Of Kabul, Parwan and Kapisa provinces.
     Masood decided to dissolve the central forces in the Army which he was planning to create. Daud wanted to get leave to visit his family and to seek treatment for arthritis, which was worsening day by day. He came to Peshawar one year ago. Meanwhile he volunteered to work for Masood to broaden his contacts with commanders' from other parts of Afghanistan, especially the East and South.
     Daud described the years of his Jehad as very useful. He studied Islamic books and learned to excel in reading the Holy Quran. He was taught by a Kurdish scholar, Abu Aasim Mohammad, who was later martyred in fighting with communists in Andarab, Baghlan. Daud said the Mujahideen in his Unit read the Holy Quran the most, becanse they were in action most of the time and their chances of being martyred were so great.
     Daud recalls an incident during Jehad which he describes as a miracle, not easy to explain by simple logic:
     About 80 Mujahideen captured 500 enemy soldiers including 12 high ranking officers in Pushghoor in 1985. Daud was in charge of keeping the captured officers. When he told the officers about the number of Mujahideen who attacked the base, they simply did not believe him.
     One month after the fall of Pushghoor Soviets launched an attack to rescue the prisoners., A large number of Mujahideen, including Cmdr. Masood, hundreds of civilians and the prisoners were surrounded by the Red Army commandos in the narrow side valley of Mokoni. The enemy bombed the valley heavily, mined the escape routes from air and captured the strategic peaks on both sides of the valley. The main problem was the evacuation of old men, women and children. One day after the attack started, Masood prepared to break the siege and open a
                                           AFGHANews Vol7, No 8, April 15,1991, page O
 corridor for the safe passage of the civilians.
     A Soviet patrol saw a crowd of about 50 people moving slowly up the valley to escape encirclement Six SU-25 jets started to bomb them. They were about 50 meters away from where Masood and some Mujahideen had hidden themselves. The planes circled many times and dropped their bombs and fired roclcets with surprising precision. Nothing could be done. Masood told the people close him to pray for the safety of those under attack. Everybody prayed with tearful eyes. When the planes disappeared, scared children, women and old men were seen moving with dusty faces. All were safe, except for a woman who had come from Kabul to see her Mujahid son.
         From page (4) tainable agreement He concludes that their fundamental defect was the evident failure "to address the issue of self-determination for the Afghan people". This was a fatal flaw in the accords which, Maley grimly writes, means "that for many Afghans, they offered only the peace of the grave".
    Richard Falk, law professor at Harvard, argues convincingly that a parallel exists between the Geneva accords and the 1973 Paris accords which ended the Vietnam war. In Falk's view both were seriously flawed agreement, whose "implementation" turned out to be irresponsible and destructive on all sides. Richard Falk regards effective support for the Afghan resistance as constituting one of the few genuine triumphs of the Reagan administration. At the same time, he makes a strong plea for Western government not now to wash their hands of the Afghan people, still desperately needing help, and suffering so greatly by the continuing warfare.
 Jami'at displays photos in Iran
     An exhibition of photos, posters and video films showing different aspects of the Afghan Jehad was held in Bandar-i-Abbas, Iran, from February 2 to 10. The exhibition was organized by the central office of Jami'at Islami in Tehran to inform Iranians and Afghans living in Iran about the true situation in Afghanistan. The exhibition attracted a lot of attention from local people.
     Dear Sin
     I received the January 15,1991 issue of AFGHANews, with the editorial about the defective reporting by the BBCs Kabul correspondent I have sent the BBC a letter fo ask for its position. I will let you know what the BBC answer will be when I receive a reply.
     As the member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Dutch Labor Party, for the Haag party branch, your information is quite useful for me. I wrote an article on your liberation war in the party's monthly some years ago. HE. Ruitenberg Den Haag Holland
     Dear brother .
     Recently a Muslim brother gave me a copy of AFGHANews. I enjoyed reading it and learned about the problems which our Afghan brothers are facing. I enjoyed reading the 'Afghan Proverbs' and Wisdom of the sages'. My prayers are with the Muslim people of Afghanistan.
     Mustafa Qazi New Jersey U.S.A
     Dear Muslim brother Your sending of troops to Saudi Arabia has angered our Muslim brothers here. Nevertheless they have full sympathy for the Mujahideen. We do not approve sending of Mujahideen to Saudi Arabia but know that the Mujahideen have made their decision under difficult circumstances.
     Mohamed Raffick Holican
     Port-Louis
     Mauritius
            l
     Dear Sir:
     I received a copy of AFGHANews. I thank you for sending the paper, which is' informative and useful. I congratulate you on publishing such a tidy and easy-to-read paper Nasrullah Ghilzai Lahore Pakistan
     Dear Sin
     I do not think there will be any solution to the problem of Afghanistan in the near future. The military in the Soviet Union are more powerful now.
 and they do not want to weaken Najib. And the U.S. government is totally concentrating on the Gulf.
     By the way, I liked your feature about Najib’s name. Your analysis of what it shows was both funny and true: Islam is clearly the dominant ideal of the people of Afghanistan, but the Islamic parties are unable to take advantage of this, for various reasons. Barnett R. Rubin New York U.SA.
    / ‘
     Dear Sir,
     I am dismayed by the fact that Gorbachev tolerates changes in Eastern Europe and receives the Nobel Peace Prize with a broad smile on his face but, at the same time, continue to send large quantities of arms to his puppets in Kabul to be used for killing Afghan Muslims. I would like to see Afghans united and their country free. I would also like AFGHANews to be sent to me regularly.
     Mehdi Hasan Khan Meraz Dhaka
     DearSir,
     Your paper AFGHANews keeps me wefi-informed about the situation in Afghanistan. Although the newspaper was good from the beginning of publication, it has become a very professional journal. You are to be congratulated.
     While I continue to have.a pain in my heart because of the plight of the Afghan people, I am also troubled by what is happening in Kuwait and Iraq. I - and nearly all American people » are very ignorant of all of the different motives and issues involved with the Persian Gulf area, like colonialism Arabs, oil, human rights, religious freedom, God, Islam, Sunni Muslims, Shia Muslims, Palestinians... We try to understand and make sense and consider what is right and just. In the meantime manylraqis, Kuwaitis and other innocents will die and experience much suffering. I pray that there will be peace, and quickly.
     Paul William Whitman, MA U.S.A
AFGHANews Vol 7, No 8, April 15, 1991., page Q
     Amnesty International called on the Kabul regime on Ma&h 22 to end the torture of prisoners and to open detention centers to international inspection, Reuter reported.
     The London-based human rights organization said it had reports that the regime State Security Ministry, known by its Persian acronym WAD, had held hundreds of political prisoners without charge or trial for up to nine years in interrogation centers and prisons.
     "They are reportedly denied access to legal counsel and family visits. They are subject to systematic torture and ill-treatment and are held under conditions that fail to meet the UN standard minimum rules for the treatment of prisoners," Amnesty said.
     Amnesty’s report on torture and long-term detention without trial said
 political prisoners were held in isolation cells during an initial period of interrogation, often lasting several months, and were routinely subjected to torture.
     "Cells are repeatedly never cleaned;, there is poor ventilation and prisoners are infected with skin diseases due to lack of proper sanitation," the report said.
     Amnesty called on the the Kabul regime to "clearly and publicly inform all officials involved in the custody, interrogation and treatment of prisoners that any act of torture will not be tolerated"
     It also called for Afghan detention centers-to be opened to "full and regular inspection by independent international humanitarian organizations."
Afghans celebrate New Year in Paris
   Mehrabuddin Mastan
    Afghan refugees in France celebrated the Afghan New Year on March 23 in Pans. In the gathering, organized by the Jami'at Islami office there, more than 250 Afghans participated
    The gathering opened with a recitation from the Holy Quran, and speakers read papers and poems to welcome the holy month of Ramadhan and the new Afghan year. One of the speakers promoted increased contacts between Afghan refugees in France. After offering evening prayer and serving food, Daud Mir, the France representative of Jami'at, talked about the meeting of the Council of Commanders which Ahmad Shah Masood had attended. A video interview of Masood recorded during his recent trip to Pakistan, was also shown and viewed with great interest.
     Convening such meetings is very useful because it brings Afghans closer together and keeps them informed of the situation in Afghanistan.
     There are about 2,000 Afghans living in different cities in France. Most of them are young students.
     Afghans living in France have played an active role in support of Jehad Some of them even took part in the armed struggle against the Russian invaders. Three prominent Afghan refugees living in France lost their lives waging Jehad against the Russian invaders:
     •Habib Rostam, killed in 1983 in Hazarajat
     •Sayyed Burhanuddin, the Deputy Head of Jami'at office in France, killed in 1987 in Nahrin, Baghlan.
     •Dr. Shah Mohammad Barzgar, killed in 1989 in Kandahar.
Prof. Rabbani urges Mujahideen to unify
    The Mujahideen's great victory at Khost, which coincided with the anniversary of Islam's first major victory in Badr, gave the lie to propaganda that a military solution to the Afghanistan problem was impossible, said Prof. Rabbani in a meeting held in Peshawar on April 7.
    Prof. Rabbani congratulated the Mujahideen on the liberation of Khost and predicted a new enthusiasm among the Mujahideen in other parts of Afghanistan for the intensification of Jehad against the Kabul regime. "God willing, the world will witness major military gains by the Mujahideen in the near future," he said.
    Prof. Rabbani called disunity among Mujahideen "a chronic disease" which affected everyone. He added that a distinction should be made, however, as to who is responsible for disunity and who is working for unity. He noted that cooperation was a must for solving the Afghan problem.
    Jami'at leader said: "Differences of opinion are a natural thing. But, there are numerous common points among the Mujahideen. We must seek common ground."
                                                                             ‘Help us publish
                                       ATg'tfMlfWs!
                                   TCcase send your donations to the fodowiny account number.
                                      yEtfXD Account (Afo. 735-37 “Habib ‘Bank.Ltd {Tehkfd‘Ba(a, “Peshawar (Pakistan