




  (Kuss'm "
"S
                                                               *
NOT EQUAL ARE THOSE BELIEVERS WHO SIT (AT HOME) AND RECEIVE NO HURT, AND THOSE WHO STRIVE, AND FIGHT IN THE CAUSE OF ALLAH WITH THEIR GOODS, AND THEIR PERSONS.
ALLAH HATH GRANTED, A GRADE HIGHER TO THOSE WHO STRIVE AND FIGHT WITH THEIR GOODS AND PERSONS.
                            (S: IV VERSE 95)
                           m t
ilirrot of fefjab
   Vol. 1 No. l - 2 Sep - Oct. 1986
Editor :
M. ENAM Raoufi
CONTENTS
1.   Year of 1978 as a challenge for Afghanistan Muslim People
2.   Geneva Talks, gaining time for Russia
3.   Now or Never
4.   Prof. Rabbani's statement as Mujahideen's Spokesman Delivered at a Press Conference
                                            Publisher : Cultural Committee of
                                                          <J. I- A)
5.   Interview
6.    Russia in A fghanistan what got what lost
7.   In Human Base of Russia's Logic
Page
   4
   5 9
   14
 17
 2B
 29
8.  Our Just stand
31
Address:
The Mirror of Jehad G. P. O. Box 345 Peshawar - Pakistan
 9.
 10.
 11.
Interview
News from the Fighting fronts The Carvan of Martyrs
33
35
41
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
  Sept - Oct 1986
   Cbttortal
      YEAR OF 1978 AS A CHALLENGE FOR AFGHANISTAN MUSLIM PEOPLE
       in the history of Islam, Afghan is the only nation, which embraced Islamic faith as a national together unlike other tribes or nations from which individuals came under the banner of Islam, while Afghans as a nation accepted Islam. From that very time Afghans and Islam are synonymous for each other. It means that if one is Afghan-he must be a Muslim.
       Another distinct quality of Afghans is that they never, in the history, has accepted foreign subjugation. Vi'hen British crown was shining all over the world, Afghans defended themselves successfully andservived free from British imperialism. Year of 197S came as a challenge for Afghans when' their belief (Islamic faith) and their independence were threatened by Soviet expansionism. Afghans met Soviet challenge successfully and stood firmly for their belief and independence. Since Soviet?, intervention, Afghans have been fighting holy war against Russians in Afghanistan with the same zeal and vigour, they got in heritage.
       3esides Afghanistan, there are also some other hot spots in the globe. But the case of Afghanistan is quite unique. Every where in the world, there, are clashes for material uplift, but in Afghanistan, the Muslims rejected the offers of material uplift for the
 sake of Islam. War in Afghanistan, is purely ideological confrontation. There is rfo question of material gain or loss. If today Afghans surrender to Soviet subjugation, Soviet Union is offering them better health, education and other temporal facilities in abundance. On one side, there is Communist Block Who wants the victory of Socialism in Afghanistan, and on the other side there are Muslims of Afghanistan who want Islam to reign supreme in the country.
     Today, Afghanistan is a test case for both the Islamic and Communistic ideologies. Keeping in mind the above situation, the Muslims of the world must not be ignorant that today Afghans are fighting not only for the liberation of their mother land, but for the preservation and presentation of Islam in its practical sense. If Afghans become victorious in their struggle, Inshaullah it will be a start of the revival of Islam, a corner stone of the next Khilafat l/ahia, led by Afghans.
     Fortunately we are going forward to our final success by the mercy of Allah. We hope the new phase of this magazine (Tile Mirror of Jehad) would record and reflect our just cause to the world at large and thus make quick our steps toward the final success.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
4
Sept - Oct 1986
V
 Geneva                Talks,gaining
             time for Russia
    In the first three years after the bloody coup of April, 1978, especially since the direct invasion of Red Army, Moscow repeated only one tiling regarding Afghan issue, and it was, "NO’Change in April revolution." Brezhinev who brought Khalq and percham into power in Kabul, and' who ordered Red army to invade Afghanistan,had boasted that the question of Afghanistan' is finished and Afghanistan has joined the camp of Socialism. His colleague, Soviet foreign minister Gromiko also has repeated this point now and then. Charinankov, the second face of Brezhnev followed the same made in his policy, but the first three years of holy war
 in Afghanistan, forced the ruling circle of kremlin to allow some changes in their rigid policy. The bloodshed allover the country and arising of anti — Soviet.feeling allover the world oblige Soviet authorities to think over undesirable consequences of their inhuman policy in Afghanistan. Russian ruling circles were also under constant fear of uprising in Soviet allied countries and nations under the Russian' yoke. So they started to speak about the political settlement of Afghanistan problem.
                                                                                      The new vulpine - oriented policy presented regarding solution of Afghan issue was
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
5
Sent-Oct 1986
 welcomed by some circles who were not familiar with the nature of Communist Russia. But the governments and majority of the nations knew the real face of Russia ,snd the criminal policy of Moscow; So they nejected new policy of Kremlin and said that R ussia appears in a new guise with the same ai m towards Afghanistan.
     Mujahideen (freedom — fighters) of Afghanistan as the real representatives of their people, strongly rejected the new deceiving policy of Moscow and openly said that the bloodshed and destruction caused in Afghanistan by Communist Russia, shows her real face in the world. Keeping eyes on the Russian policy in the past, no one could trust Moscow, because Bolsheviks and their predecessors have always deceived the nations and afterward, brought them under the yoke of communism.
     Afghan Mujahideen believe that every step which is taken by the Russian aggressors is only for their own benefits. Afghanistan is a good example of their policy projection.
 First, they brought in to power their puppet regime in Kabul. When their hired servants were not able to fullfil their master's ambitions, the Red army entered Afghanistan. When* their dirty plans and tactics were not successful, they raised the slogan of (peace Talks) and (political settlement of the questions). Even just at the end of Geneva seven round talks, Russians replaced their old loyal servant Babrak Karmal with a new well trained servant. Dr. Naji.b. All these are merely new tactics of Kremlin. By such unexpected change, they want to deceive public opinion and make loose the strongholds of Afghan Mujahideen.
     Explaining the aforesaid points, we can see why Russia trys to continue Geneva Talks. All this is red-herring efforts. Russians want to break the compact resistance of Jehad which is going on resolutely all over the country. Moscow is of the opinion that continuing all sided war inside Afghanistan, would finally make tired the people, and then, they will bound to be surrendered to lupesided bargain. But it is merely an illusion, which will never be materialized. Eight years war against the Russian super power, the firm faith and strong position of Afghan Mujahideen have been firmly maintained sofar. All these show that they will never be surrendered nor be tried.
     Russians try to force the Afghans to leave their country. Whenever Geneva talks have been • started, Russian's plundering assaults started nearly in all regions of Afghanistan. Before and after Geneva 41 round which was thought the final stage for pacification of the problem, Red Army poured in to paktia, Herat, Kandahar, Kabul and in many other parts of the country to hit the fronts of Jehad and close the routes of Mujahideen, but all over these fronts Russian units were hit severely; Afghanistan became the grave of hundreds of Russian puppet soldiers who were killed on the slopes of mountains, In Herat, Kandhar, and Jaji, face to face fighting alsp took place between daring Mujahideen and enemy units.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
6
Sept - Oct 1986
 Russians followed a policy of all sided destruction in Afghanistan. All life giving properties, economic overheads and sacred santuries were wiped out by the vulturous. Russians want to destroy all of them and wish to take away all facilities and resources from Afghanistan. The Soviet Union falsely misthinks that Afghans may leave the country when every item of their financial and economic importance is destroyed. But Russians are mistaken, because Afghans are fighting for their faith, liberty, dignity, and material gains.
    Russians try to make disturbance in neighbouring Muslim countries of Afghanistan. Their pre-war policy and the tactics of provoking one nation against the other resulted Iran-lraq war. This war started just after the Jehad launched against Russian aggressors.
    For the last two years, all Soviet activities are concentrated to disturb the normal
 life in Pakistan. This is done first by (KGB) and (Khad) agents. The intilligence agencies of Russians started their compaign to provoke the anti-state pro-Russian elements in Pakistan. They exploded bombs at public places, sometimes shot rockets and drop bombs on border areas. Kremlin follows a policy of pressing the leadership of Pakistan, forbiding to give shelter to three million refugees living in Pakistan, nor show human sympathy for Mujahideen. Russians try to bring the same situation of Iran in Pakistan. They want a country-wide distrubance allover the country. Brezhinev, once advised the government of India to start war with Pakistan. But the Indian Junta Party leadership of that time refused to do so. Russia wants Pakistan to be entraped in constant precarious conditions and show the Pakistani people that all this is done by Afghan refugees living in Pakistan and thus provoke the people of Pakistan to express discontentment to wards the down-trodden three million refugees who are in fact their Muslim brothers.
Sorry my dear land. I could not librate you, being wounded at the very beginning.
Sept-Oct 1986
7
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
 thus try to sabotage the prospective Islamic revolutionary government in Afghanistan.
    Communist rulers try to convince the nations inside Red impire that the war inside Afghanistan will end with the success of Bolsheviks.
ment. West has forgetten as who has brought famine and starvation in Ethopea, but now they have started to help the miserable people of that country, while all these crisis are the result of Russian colonial policy in that region.
    By continueing war. Communist rulers hope to finish it at their own will. But if Communists, once failed then ruling on one forth of the globe would be impossible for them. Bolsheviks try to turn the world opinion especially of the West, with the present Afghan crisis. Russians have done it while they had the plan to bifurcate the territory of Germany. Unfortunately they succeeded to their aims by inclusion of East Germany with Communist block. Russians have done it through suppressing public revolts in Hungry, Czechoslvakia and recently in Poland. Russians have done it by bringing
 several developing countries under their yoke. Soviet ruling circle knows that the
 nations of the world have condemned aggression op Afghanistan, since long. But during the course of time, they will forget the case, as now people have forgotten the bifurcation of Germany, harsh defeat of Hungarian and Czechoslovak public revolts,
 and the uprising of Solidarity Union move
     Last December, Russian ruler Gorbachov agreed with president Reagan that Moscow wants peaceful settlement of Afghanistan problem through negotiations, but he said recently that Moscow will never talk with Afghan Mujahideen's chiefs nor be ready to accept any changes in the states quo of Afghanistan. It means that Russia wants to conquer Afghanistan through the instrument of peace Talks. Gorbachov knows that Mujahideen are the real representatives of Afghanistan and the Afghan Jehad leaders are receiving respect and- confidence from the world leaders every where except the countries under the Moscow yoke.
     We don't want that the Afghan Soil should be the playground fbr East and West, But we hope that the world must support the just cause of Afghan people. The world especialy the Islamic Ummah must not let the Russians make use of Geneva Talks as gaining time for beating Afghan resistance.
Life in the oepn year-round.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
8
Sept - Oct 1986
 NOW OR NEVER
    Afghanistan had the misfortune of being ruled in the recent past by persons whose eyes were dazzled by the glamour of Western civilisation. Unsuccessfully did they try to remould the Afghan society on either of the European models. Repeated attempts by successive governments to 'modernise' the Afghan society involved subtle attacks on the fundamentals of faith. In fact they ridiculed everything associated with religion and patronised un-lslamic institutions. Western sartorial tastes and social habits were popularised in urban areas and the floodgates of a deculturising tide were opened on an unwary people. This resulted in successive changes of regime without bringing national issues any closer to the solution. The situation continued to deteriorate. While the rulers were trying to maintain their status through the patronage of some big power, Communists got a big chance of propagating their ideology under the aegis of the government. Conscientious Muslims had been constantly warning the people against the drift towards un-lslamic ways of life the impending danger of Communism and the general moral decadence that had overtaken the Afghan society. But these warnings by and large went unheard or were ignored.
    The people of Afghanistan had been
reminded that a similar situation had once prevailed in the Central Asian States of, Bukhara, Samarqand and.Tashkent which have been robbed of their rich cultural heritage by their Communist' overlords. The people of this conquered region have been subjected to a severe regimentation which does not leave them free to practise the faith they profess. Ironically enough, Af-
Toward the conclusive success,
Sept - Oct 1986
9
THE MIR ROR OF J EHAD
ghanistan today is paying a heavy price for the failure of its governments to lehd support to these Centra! Asian States in .their struggle against the Czars and their • Communist successors. Unluckily, the successive Kabul governments did not learn any lesson from the fate of the suoiugated Muslims of Central Asia. Instead they extended their hand of friendship to the same power which had put shackles on the feet of millions of Central Asian Muslims. Little did they realise that some day they might meet the same fate as their northern brethren.
    With Kabul policies changing from bad to worse, this fate could not be averted. The short-sighted rulers of Afghanistan had to reap the tempestuous harvest of the winds they had unwittingly sown. They were rudely awakened one day by the shock of finding their country invaded by their Communist friends against all norms of ethics and capons of international justice. It was the Afghan masses who rose up at this juncture to build dykes against the surging billows of an anti-religious set-up. A small group among the Afghans took up the challenge thrown to the Islamic order in this region. This group of devoted Muslims formed an organisation which worked for the revival of the Islamic way of life in its purest form. Previously it
 had been fighting against the spread of Communist influence but has now entered the lists to overthrow the Communist invaders. The Mujahideen'have stood up to the enemy and foiled all hisplans for a walkover in Afghanistan. The Afghan people have responded to their call and have rallied round them. The country's future is now inextricably linked to the liberation struggle of these Mujahideen. They are using guerrilla tactics and are giving the Russian invaders a tough time despite numerous handicaps including lack of. political, moral and material support from the outside world.
    If other Muslim countries are ever faced with a situation like the one obtaining in Afghanistan today, it will be extremely difficult for them to offer much resistance to the invaders. An ordeal for the Afghans, the present crisis is a trial for the rest of the Muslim world as well. While the Afghans are making every sacrifice for the sake of their faith and for establishing the rule of the Almighty God '.on earth, the rest of the Muslim world is accountable to Him for the way in which it acquits itself of its responsibilities towards an aggressed section of the Ummah. To what extent are they prepared to support their Muslim brethren in Af^hanis-
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
10
Sept-Oct 1986
 tan morally and materially, is the question Islam wishes to ask. The Mujahideen rightly feel that if the Communists succeed in establishing themselves in Afghanistan by crushing the Mujahideen, no other Muslim people would be able to withstand Soviet pressure. One by one they are bound to lose their sovereignty in that predicament. If, however, the Muslim countries realise the gravity of the situation well in time and take bold steps to face the challenge, there is every hope that the Almighty God in His infinite mercy will enable them to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Afghanistan: This Islamic victory against heavy odds will be an eye-opener for everybody and no enemy will ever dare cast an evil eye on any other Muslim country. On Afghanistan, thus hinges the future of the Muslim world. The Afghans' victory will herald the victory of the resurgent Muslim world in its entirety, whereas their defeat will mark the advent of a dark and dismal era for the Muslims all around the globe.
    The Muslim world must make common cause with the people of Afghanistan. It should consider Afghanistan's issue as its ,own and make joint, concerted and effective
 efforts to ensure Russian withdrawal. Jhe independent existence, political stability and economic prosperity of the Ummah depend on the success of th is effort.
     Afghanistan is passing through an extremely difficult period of her history. One of the world's major powers has invaded her an is trying to subugate her. The Afghans are resisting the aggressor with an > unflinching resolve but they lack material resources. Theirs is one of the poorest countries in the world. They need weapons to flight, and need them badly and urgently. They also need training in the techniques of modern and guerrilla warfare. They have to deal with an enemy who is bent upon annihilating them if He fails to bring them to their knees. They are being slaughtered indiscriminately in order to strike terror into the hearts of the masses. Nobody, not even decrepit old persons and helpless children, are spared at the least suspicion of helping the Mujahideen or giving quarter to them. Young students of either ?ex are persecuted and shot dead for sympathy with freedom-fighters. Educational institutions and hospitals are being destroyed and mosques are being desecrated and pulled down. Entire villages and towns are being wiped out with shelling and bombing. Che-
What further
proof is
needed of
Russian
oppression?
Sept-Oct 1986
11
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
Now, since
the Russian
Invasion Funeral
processions
are a part of
our daily
lieves.
micals too are being used for indiscriminate extermination of the population. The Mujahideen have to fight an enemy who is in proud possession of the most sophisticated equipment of land aand air war. As against this, the Mujahideen's armoury consists of substandard rifles and hand-grenades manufactured in far-off tribal hamlets. Any modern arms used by them are just those they have been able to seize from the enemy.
    What should be the responsibility of the Ummah when it is being lacerated and amputated? Would it be insensitive to the pain inflicted on one of its limbs by an inveterate foe of the faith? Certainly the answer cannot be in the affirmative.
    Every member of the world Muslim fraternity must come out immediately in support of the Afghans and make their Jihad successful. The Kremlin's Afghan adventure should be considered an outrage upon the entire Ummah, and not just one Muslim country. The critical situation expects all Muslims to play a useful role, severally as well as collectively, in this confrontation.
    The governments pf the various Muslim
 States have a special responsibility in this connection. Being the representatives of different parts of Ummah, they have to inculcate in the various Muslim peoples the true spirit of Jihad by providing them an inspiring leadership in accordance with Islamic teachings. To support the Muslims of Afghanistan in their Jihad is an immediate religious, political and strategic necessity of great significance. The Islamic world cannot escape the repercussions of this war. If other Muslim countries shirk their responsibilities towards Afghanistan and leave it to its fate, then a day will soon come when they will themselves become the target of either Super-powers's aggression. It is in their own interest to succour the Afghan Mujahideen who are fighting single-handed for the entire Ummah's cause. If the Soviet aggressors are not pushed back across the River Oxus, it will be almost impossible to check their further thrust elsewhere in the Muslim World.
     The war in Afghanistan has given the Muslims a unique opportunity of reaffirming their faith, cementing Islamic solidarity and adding another glorious chapter to Islamic
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
12
Sept-Oct 1986
Oh my brave
friend!
We must be
united to fight
the Russians.
 history.
    This is no wishful thinking. History is replete with details of the exploits of Muslim Mujahideen who routed far superior and stronger enemies, simply because they did not run after wordly gains. They dedicated themselves wholly to their Creator and always held themselves in a state of readiness even for the supreme sacrifice. The true spirit of Jihad had been imbibed by them and their
 glorious traditions are now being revived by the Afghan Mujahideen who are engaging in one battle after another the forces hostile to Islam. The resistance put up by the Muslims here will naturally blunt the edge of non-Muslim aggression elsewhere. Discomfiture of one Superpower will be a lesson for the other and is bound to act as a catalyst for the victory of the PLO and the vacation of Zionist aggression. The Afghan victory will warn the enemies of Islam against trampling upon the rights of Muslims. It will also positively clear the decks for the Islamic renaissance in a world which stands disappointed and disillusioned with the miserable
 failure of man-made ideologies for the conduct of human affairs. Humanity urgently
 needs divine guidance to pull it out of the quagmire of conflicting materialistic ideologies and elevate it to the level of sublime peace and-harmony.
    The resurgent Islam today is everywhere confronted with clandestine, if not open, hostility donning diverse garbs. Its adherents must become alive to the dangers that beset its renaissance. They have to make a firm resolve to fight the multi-faced adversary to the end, no matter how great the.sacrifjces involved. This is'the time for the Muslims to act. Right now, for the opportunity^-fn^y never offer itself again. Yes, it is now or never.
Sept - Oct 1986
13
the mirror of jehad
        Prof.         Rabbani's Statement As
   Mujahideen's Spokesman Delivered
    At A Press Conference
    The Jihad of the Afghan Muslim nation against the invading Russians and their puppet regime has entered its critical stage of history. Appointing their cruelest supreme war coammander in Afghanistan, the Russians
have started their savage attacks and massacring the oppressed people, particularly greybeards, children and women of the country.
    Presently, the people in Herat province who' have servived the on slaught of the Soviets, are subjected to the bestial air and ground raids in their ruined cities and villages. In Helmand and Kandahar provinces, rivers of blood are shedc daily by Soviet intruding troops. The east, south-east and the central parts of Afghanistan are couns-tantly held under the wild air raids and shelled by long-range rockets. In the northern parts, thousands of tanks and tens of war planes are engaged in the distruction of the villages and cities, and bloodshed is continued through-out these regions.
    The Badakhshan province has been attacked from north and south. About 7,000 reinforced Russian troops have entered Baharak sub-division via Vvakhan. Tens of tanks, helicopter gunships and jet fighters are daily wrecking the villages and setting harvests and agricultural lands on fire. Due to this, most of the regions of Afghanistan have been striken by acute famine.
    Besides the wild attacks, the Russians
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
14
Sept - Oct 1986
 inside and outside Afghanistan are hypro-critically trying to dupe our oppressed nation as well as the nations of the world with the slogan of friendship.
    Replacing Karmal by IMajib, their new puppet, Russians had hatched a new plot hoodwink the Muslim people of Afghanistan. They pretend as if a new process fjame out with a new phase of peace and prosp erity.
    The Kremlin rulers have ordered Najib to boost of being an honest supporter of Islam and to invite Mujahideen and the common people for peace and national recon-cilation. The puppet Najib has also been advised to treat the people gently, whereas scores of the people are slaughtered in different parts of the country.
    Fortunately, the Muslim nation of Afghanistan has already known him to be the honest servant of the Russians since long. They know the deceptive tactics of the Bplsheviks behind the replacement of their lackeys by one another. Likewise the Soviets wanted to pretend as if they have taken progressive steps towards the political solution of Afghanistan problem. They are desperately trying to trap our Islamic movement. in the frame work of their military activities and misrepresent our relations with the foreign countries. The occupying Soviets persist on reaching an agreement whereby they, would be abje to wipe out the Mujahideen's resistance and bring Afghanistan under the colonial yoke of Communism for ever.
    In such critical and sensitive circumstances our Mujahideen have to co-ordinate their cambat strength and rearrange their military activities in order to bring about a firm unity. In the external policy, the Mujahideen should make wide attempts to unveil the real face of the Russian Communism. They will also have to disclose the atrocities of the invading troops and frustrate their conspiracies in Afghanistan. To tiiis end, the Ittehad Council (Shoora) accepted the U.S. invitation at the fourth time, where as it had already been rejected for three times. The Alliance delegation accepted
Firing on the swaring Russian planes.
 the invitaton with the majority of five to two.
    During their visit, tne delegation discussed vital issues and briefed the U.S president and the high ranking officials about the Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan and the hardships faced by Afghan people. The delegation emphatically said ''We have not come to U.S. to turn Afghanistan into an arena of super powers rivalry nor to mortgage our Islamic revolution to America. We would not allow U.S. to interfere in our internal affairs.'' The delegation added." The Afghan Muslim people who have already sacrifieced more than one million martyrs for regaining their dignity and freedom, will never let a second Yalta take place and thereby pave the ground for the U.S. and Soviet Union to divide the small and weak countries between them,"
    The delegation criticised the presence of the puppet regime Embassy in Washinton as well as the American Embassy in Kabul, while the Americans condemned the Soviet invasion on Afghanistan and they uttered committment to support the rightful struggle of Afghan people for their freedom and honour. The nature of the Islamic revolution was explained by the delegation.
Sepj-Oct 1986
15
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD

It's time to
strike the
last nail.
    The delegation opposed the formation of a Govt: in exile which is said to be formed if at all? Thus the plan was completely frustrated by the visit of the delegation. Making efforts to acquire any facilities to promote our Islamic movement does not mean as we have forgotten the momentum of faith. We are relying on Allah's help only. V,e’, however, according to Allah's injunctions endeavour to achieve any sort of combat facilities. But at the same time we do not considere. victory, the result of instruments and temporal facifities. We' consider the help of Allah (Almighty) as the sole source of our victory.
    We may visit U.S, but would not follow U.S, policies. Our path is Islam. Apart from Islam, we refuse any other way of life.
    We should acquire political recognition and moral support of the world. We also have to win seats of Afghanistan in the international forums. We have to spare no efforts convincing the world to deal only with us being actual representative on the issues concerning Afghanistan. We should try our best to supplant our representation and at the same time to dispense all diplomatic affairs of Afghan people as well.
    Due to the absence of our diplomatic relations, Russia has strengthened its relations
 with Islamic countries, with whom they had not before hand. This is something gro tesque. On one hand Soviets are onslaugh-ting hundreds and thousands of innocent people of Afghanistan, while they extended their blood stained hands to the other Islamic countries to express their friendship on the other. Cut these Islam countries must learn a lesson from Afghanistan tragedy at the hands of the Blosheviks. Russians claim that they are willing to pull out their forces from Afghanistan. They are not honest in their claim other wise they would have need not so lingered time. The agression on Afghanistan took only a few days, then why does Russia need several years for withdrawal?
    We reject any arbitrative attempt which does not aim at withdrawal of Soviets troops from Afghanistan. So long as political solution of Afghan problem is concerned, I have to emphasise once again that only we have the right to determine our future.
    At the end of my office tenure I would like to express thanks to all brothers and wish brother Sebghatullah (Mujaddidi),■ the new spokesman of the Alliance, full success. Sincerely yours.
         Prof: Burhanuddin (Rabbani), Chairman Afghan Mujahideen Delegation to U.N.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
16
Sept-Oct 1986
3
                            nterview
 bellow
^Zke interview
 oj ^Prol -*j$urkcin-ud-<:z[}in
<:^abbani <Spokeman o%
 Z) Mamie c\Yl ujakideen         cAfo
    Following is the interview of prof: Bur-hanuddeen Rabani Spokes man of Ittehad-e-Islami Mujahadeen Afghanistan.
    our revolution is facing, we are willing to further organize our mutual forces. We spare no efforts to take effective steps in this way.
Q. Would you please name those who opposed your visit, and weather they have the membership of your Alliance or not?
A. Brothers Hakmatyar and Sayaf opposed our visit, however, they are still members of the Alliance.
Q. What measures would you like to take for strengthening your coalition in future, dispite the obstacles and difficulties you are facing ?
A. Despite the obstacles and problems thai
Cl Did the U.S. authorities promise you further aids during yoiur visit ?
A. It was a diplomatic and ^introductory visit. Vve discussed mainly about political and introductory issues.
Q. Did you not raise questions as to the U.S. aids to Mujahiddeen.
A. Our discussion was mainly based on political and introductory matters, however humanitarian aid was a secondary
 Sept
      - Oct

 1986

17
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
    matter. It is because under such conditions our people need some kinds of humanitarian aids. Presently we have more than two million refugees in the interior of Afghanistan. Our people are engaged in fighting against a mons terous super power. This is why, they need some sort of aids.
 Q. Did you talk on military aids particularly the stinger missiles ?
 A. As I said earlier, we did not talk on military aids, we discussed political and humanitarian matters.
 Q. What achievements could you make of your visit ?
 A. We discussed different issues as to the political recognition of our revolution and its importance, particularly in such circumstances that the question of the political solution is going on. We expressed ourviewabout indispenslablepostulates for settlement of the issue. We received positive response. The U.S. leadership reiterated their firmly support .for our just cause.
 Q. What was the U.S. opinion concernirtg recognation of the Mujahideen's resistance in Afghanistan ?
 A. The recognition of our movement is a significant and valuable matter. Militarily, our fronts are very strong, however, we need to be recognized politically. Therefore, the question of the political recognition was discussed at length in several gatherings where we had to deliver speeches. The issue was variously reflexed by the media, however we got positive impressions of the U.S. co-operation towards recognition of our resistance. We are willing to open some offices for preliminary activities in the ‘countries when we have deplomatic relation with. These offices will work-in order to win membership in Islamic countries, foreiyn Ministeres conferences and in the U.N.G.
    Q. Political recognition requires a single leadership. Is there any decission to have a single leadership?
   A.. As it was stated before, Mujahideen will have to take practical steps in strengthening their unity. Regarding a single leadership, we intend to set up a supreme council (Shoora) from different parts of Afghanistan, so that we can be easily capable to raise question of our recognition. There is a series of work to be done and it will help our political recognition whereof conditions are quite prepared.
   Q. Did US Put pressure on further Unity among the Mujahideen ?
   A. There was no question of this sort, but they demonstrated much interest on this aspect.
   Q. Does the opposition of those who oppos-
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
18
Sept-Oct 1986
     ed your visit, affect your Unity ?
A. I think the freedom of opinion and respecting the others opinions is necessary, therefore opinion of every body should be honoured on this subject. Five members of the Alliance were agreed while two opposed it. In short, everyone's opinion is sincere in its own place.
Q. Vyhat are the reasons for their disagreement ?
first audiance President Reagan recited Stalin's words as he said that he wanted to build Communism, so it made no difference if three fourth of the world people were killed. According to Stalin, only one fourth was enough to decide and build up a Communist Society, on tie earth. President Reagan told that the same policy is followed now. Therefore, he rarely noticed the problem of ,Afghan in the perspective of East and West tussel.
A. You can take it up with themselves.
Q. Did President Reagan view Afghanistan issue in the framework of East and West problem ?
A. We did not feel so. We talked them openly and clearly. They, however, described
    the problem of Afghanistan as a hufnan problem, the problem of a huge nation, vulnerable to savage attacks of Soviet. For example, I remember that in the
Q. Some people are of the opinion that it is, scuffle between U.S.A. and U.S.S. R. Vvhy you visited U.S., do you not there-by confirm Soviet claim that Americans are involved in the war of Afghanistan ? Does't it confirm the Soviet allegations?
A. The accusation of the Soviets has always been going on, even at the very begining of our jehad when we were empty-handed and had not weapons which now
Sept-Oct 1986
19
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
    have been captured as booty from the Soviet troops, they were propegating that Americans, Chineese and Iranians are fighting in Afghanistan. We are sure that smear-campaign of Russians will in no Way end. World would not be so simple-minded to consider a country under the shadow of another, while they notice the country in a blood bath and fire, however, its representatives visit different countries in order to convince the world opinion on the question of recognition and its internal problems. These rumours are unfounded and quite far from truth. Our people and revolution are independent We preserve our right to decide. If we visit any countries thereby, we mean to attract their attention to our revolution, because it is our just cause and legitimate right to receive aids and persuade the world countries to co-operate with us.
Q. Would you please shed light on the formation of the government in exile ?
A. There is hardly a score of treachrous people who are absolutely secluded of the Jehad of Afghanistan. They have been living in self-exile for many years. They have reached a fair trade agreement with Soviet Union to come into power in Afghanistan, quarter back from outside and resume the same treacherous policy which they have led for many- years
    back in Afghanistan. They are hireling on the rhinimumiwages. Russia would prefer this hollow Quarter back regime against a "NO bargain" Islamic revolution. This is what, Russians.can get from a bad pay master. Therefore, they are trying now, to play a drama under the garb of government in exile. When the delegation visited U.S., they absolutely and decessively rejected the plot of the Govt: in exile. The delegation has categorically, declared its stand point to the countries that Mujahideen will never accept this heresy. Therefore the world at large, should show disbelief to this drama.
Q. What was the U.S. leadership's opinion regarding Geneva talks ?
A. When we told them that Russians are not honest in their commitment, they expressed the same apprehensions. Thev told that if Soviet LJnion had been honest, they would have not spent-such a long period to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan. They deployed their troops in Afghanistan within a few days. They are capable to pull out their forces in no time provided, they are realy sincere. We are certain that Soviets want to strangle our revolution and to pave way for their long stay in Afghanistan.
Q. You pointed out that the future of Afghanistan depends only on Afghans,
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
20
Sept-Oct 1986
    would you tell wether you will be ready to negotiate with the Kabul regime in future ?
 A. Not at all; Dialogue with the present unlawful puppet regime is out of question because the people ruling Afghanistan. Presently are Identical Afghans but as a matter of fact, they are agents of Russians in Afghanistan. Therefore, no negotiation is possible with them, because they themselves are responsible for Afghan tragedy. When we talk of Afghans, we do not mean these a handful of treacherous. Actually, they are not opposition. They are criminals who betrayed their own compatroit. So, bilateral dialogue with these quarter-backed native Treacherous is illogic.
 Q. Out of seven leaders, only four are seen here, it seems that youf Alliance is formed by four parties, is it not so ?
 A. Two brothers are not here in Peshawar, only one brother Muhammad Younas (Khalis) is absent. Our Alliance is, compromised of seven parties. Still there has been no marked change in the Unity.
 Q. Is the parallel government inside Afghanistan better than the Government in exile?
 A. Of course- We prefer to establish a parallal government inside Afghanistan within liberated areas which comprising 70% of the total territory of Afghanistan. It is a huge enough for constitution a state. I opine this is the best way to drive out Russians ana their mercenaries from Afghanistan. However, at present there is no facilities nor resources at the disposal of Mujahideen, particularly, we have no counter check of the enemy's airforces. For this, it will be better than any other efforts, to win an international confidence and supporters for our resistance.
 Q. What is your opinion about Najeeb's suggestions for peace, national reconciliation and calling refugees to return to Afghanistan.
 A. Najib's proposals for reconciliation with the Mujahideen and calling the refugees back are nothing but futile hue and cry, because it is oeyond his competence. This is one of the triGks played by Najeeb. He is trying to convince the world as if there
Sept - Oct 1986
21
-----------------a
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
A cold climate, but warm spirit.
THE BEST PROOF
Goodbye my beloved children.
wiil return soon if I survive.
                       1
If you do notrtJnderstand my silence, you would not understand my words
    exists a Govt: in Afghanistan which is capable to welcome Mujahideen. I can undoubtedly say that he has no personal will to utter these words. These rumours were also heard in Karmal's tenure when the general amnesty was declared. The same efforts are made by Najeeb. He invites Mujahideen and call refugees to return to their homeland. He pretends to be ready to form an Islamic government with participation of Mujahideen.
Q. What is your plans to strengthen your Unity ?
A. Prof: Mujaddidi who is taking his office as a next spokesman of the Unity, will make some programmes in this regard with the counsel of all members. However, what we decided in the past was to form a supreme council consisting people from different parts of Afghanis-tan. Any way, taking any positive measures towards this direction will be very valuaDle.
G. What guarantees are asked by USSR to oe given by US ?
A. Soviets are asking guarantee for non inter-
 ference in Afghanistan. It is because,
 Russians claim that not only Russia but
 also U.S. has intruded Afghanistan. The
 Soviets try to show that they are correct in their claim^ therefore, they are asking
 U.S. for guarantees. The Russians say:
 They would give guarantee of their
 withdrawl and thus U.S.A. should also
 give gurantee of non-interference in
 Afghanistan. Sy asking US for guarantee,
 the USSR, wants to prove its claim that
 the US is also involved in Afghan < crisis.
 Actually U.S.A. has not interfered in
 Afghanistan, but like most of other
 countries, protested against the Russian's
 savage attacks and had declared to
 support the resistance movement of
 Afghanistan. It is only USSR which must
 give non-interference guarantee, for there
 is no any foreign power involved in the
 crisis of Afghanistan, except Russia
 itself. Mujahideen will accept no
 guarantee in the presence of the Russian's
 puppet rulers in Afghanistan. In our
 opinion U.S.S.R. wants to involve
 Pakistan as a party in the question of
 Afghanistan and get guarantee from it.
 Similarly, Russians also want to get
 guarantee from other countries. But in
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
24
Sept-Oct 1986
    our view, the only country which must give guarantee is Russia. There are two parties involved in the problem of Afghanistan, Russia on one side and Mujahideen's resistance movement on the other. Th$ rest countries of the world need not to give guarantee. Holding such a futile logic, Soviets want to show that they are right in their invasion. The concept of guarantee is a mean to an end coined by Russians. U.S.A. authorities assured me that they are prepared with all their might to work for the pull out of Red Army from Afghanistan. They added that they would- never interfere in determining bur fate and internal affairs.
 Q. Vi/hat measures have you taken toward establishing a supreme council ?
 A. The detailed programme has yet not been chalked out. Before we could be able to decide about it, my term as a spokesman is ofver. However we will adopt positive and practical measures in this direction.
 Q. Do the Secularists have the right of membership in this council ?
 A. Since the resistance of Afghans is based on Islamic Ideology and Afghanistan is envisaged to be a pure, Islamic State, therefore, there is no loop-hole for the Secularists in Afghanistan in the time to come.
 Q. How long is the duration of incumbency for each spokesman ?
 A. It is three months so far, however we intend to prolong it. At present, this is on trial basis.
 Q. Does the Council bring about any changes in the form of the Alliance and does it enjoy more power than the Unity ?
 A. The Council is to strengthen the Unity and Unity aims at bringing about a single powerful administrative and military base
    for which the Council adopts effective measures.
Q. Would the Council be under the influence of the Unity ?
A. The working programmes are to be hammared out by the Coalation, however once the council comes into being it should be- the supreme competent body.
Q. Is it only your (Jamiat-e-lslami) view?
A. No, not just our, but it is a common view of all seven constituent Parties.
Q. How will you select the representatives from different parts of Afghanistan?
A. Vue have empowered the commission to sketch some practical plans. After putting the plans before the Council, the Council will decide about it.
25
Sept - Oct 1986
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
                                                                                                                  PERVEZ KHAN KHALIL of Palosi Tlarzai
(R
ussia in

                     tyfykal (Qei tyfyhal
    The invasion on Afghanistan by Soviet Army is an event that by its enormity, left them in a state of stunned disbelief. It is an event that had no precedent since world war—II.
    No doubt, the Soviet forces, in view of its inherent nature and Idealogical commitments, had marched into warsa pact, and leftist countries at large. But this was the first blatant revolution in Public against independence and sovereignty of a non-aligned state. This marked a new trend in the Soviet use of armed force, as ar common place instructment of its global strategy, deeply distrubing the world's nations tenously
holding on fragile peace. This is a signal of danger for Muslims and self sustained independant’nations all over the world. Thanks to Communism for showing itself stark naked to the world eyes. Brezehnev deserved high
tribute in this respect. World politics must not be further optimistic about leftist faction brooding in their countries richly.
    Reaction to the invasion was swift. Expressions of concern and syrnpethy for the miserable Afghan people poured from all over the world. The Soviet Union was denounced in uncertain terms, for its causeless aggression against independent entity. The United State called attention to
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
                                                                                                                                   26,
Sept-Oct 1 uS6
 the danger that the Soviet action posed to detente and clapped an embargo on the export of grains and jnodern technology to Moscow. Other Western nations registered similar protest and expressed fears about the future of East-West relation. The U.N.O. met in Emergency session and by an overwhelming majority of votes underlined the world consensus in favour of immediate Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. The world bodies reiterated their stand on the issue next month. The Islamie foreign Ministers conference has also twice pronounced its verdict on Afghan issue, insisting on quick vacation of aggression as a prelude to political settlement of the problem The Madrid conference on European Security has also bogged down on this question. But sorrily speaking all fell flat and proved all less effective than a volley of Afghan freedom fighter's gun fired in the pitch battle against Russians. This is a calculated perception. Russia knows “lip service and No action" of western policy, probably a bargain in camera, as some journalists and Politician would say. Looking back, what has hte Soviet Union achieved by its Aggression on Afghanistan in the last six years ? Nothing so far, except:
 1.  The Afghan people are more antagonized against Russia than ever. Moscow has achieved neither military nor its political objectives. Despite massive inflow of arms and mercenaries, the Afghan spirit of independence has been multiplied considerably.
 2.  Due to geographical and economic reasons Afghans were uneducated - before hand. They had been deprived of widening their intelectual horizon, hence of-political prudence and military tactics. Thanks to Russians that they educated and imbibed every Afghan with lost faculties. Now Afghan Mujahid is more shrewed politically. He is a good combatant than Russian mercenaries. There were some paid Priests in Afghanistan who had to transplant Socialism in Islam. Now'the cat is out of the bag. AFyharis understood Socialism in its real perspective.
 and now, they have developed their relation with Islam more strongly and are tenacious to the rope of Allah. They are religiously organised that give them more and more momentus against atheists.
 3.  Ikhawan-ul-Muslimeen of the globe are grown alert who would never let the atheist to rest in the edifice of kremlin now.
 4.  Muslim countries and small countries of the world now, would hesitate to establish any kind of relation wth Russian. They all take it for a white elephant, a firecing hog. They have seen this devil-incanate in its real guize. The good-will of Russia, if made so far, went to wall altogether, they defamed their Socio-Economic Model and burned the corpse of socialism by their own hands. No dirge no ceremonial funeral preparation could be observed.
     Being a journalist, I had to visit some fronts of Afghanistan, & observed the ratio of weapon with both the atagonist groups. An astonishing divergence the Soviet troops who are armed to nail and teeth on the one •hand, who has a rapid deploying cavalry and. colossal artilary, supersonic and anti-Bullet gun-ship planes which have the capacity to enter a ditch in search of Mujahideen and come out unseth, while on the other, dauntless Majahideen who have absolute and insignificant out-dated weapons. I personally witnessed that there is no any sophisticated weapon with Afghan Mujahideen received from America or any other European country. The Afghan Army has almost disintegrated and mostly joined ranks of Mujahideen. Now, it is the Soviet forces, innumeral over the Iron curtain, that are doing all the fjghting. Neutral Military observers however say that the Soviets, despite all their Modem weapons, are being gradually cornered into a no-win position, nor has the Soviet-installed Kabal regime succeeded in pacifying the populace. There is a universal hostility to the puppet regime. There is absolute discontentment over the government, policies. Ambush on Russian officers and military garisons are common.
 Sept-Oct 1986
27            THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
The ruling party itself is riven by dissension, with an endless tussle going on between Khalq and Parcham factions. In the open world, the Soviet image was never lower than it is today. Particularly significant is the increasing gulf, that has been interposed itself between the Muslim world and the Soviet Union since its accupation of Afghanistan.
    During the last seven years, Afghans have shown how to defened their honour and freedom. Afghans have always defeated outside invaders before, and they are sure to do the same again, no matter how long and costly the fight may be.
    Seen in the larger prospective, the Afghan freedom fighter's war of resistence is not an isolated affairs in its consequences. It is a battle for world recognized principles, the principles of self respect and soverignty, that is the bed rock of today's internal Orders, enshrined in the charter of U.N.O.
    V.hst a strange it is that the lofty peace-
 giving edifice that had been carved by peace-loving nations in the form of U.N.O. in
 1945., and its esteemed charter is now to be defended and validated by the scouring Afghan Mujahideen. It is an unshared and lope-sideu liability placed on the shoulders of Afghan freedom fighters.
     It is a spade work in favour of all noncommunist and downtrodden entities, a struggle on behalf of all freedom-loving people wherever they are, and at least it is obligatory upon them to support Afghan Cause. It is unconceivable, however, why West has not yet taken the kind of Economic and. diplomatic action strong enough to deter the agreession. There is also need for larger and more regular international assistance to enable Pakistan to look after the 3 million Afghan refugees who left their homes under suppression. Let the world not forget that if the Russians are allowed to have their way in Afghanistan, a precedent will be set that could be repeated anywhere with impunity and nobody's privacy will be safe.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
2S.
Sept-Oct 1986
           IN HUMAN BASE OF RUSSIA’S LOGIC
    Now, mOLre than six years have been passed that the Communist Russia has started massacring the innocent people of Afghanistan, but Moscow is- still trying to mislead public opinion of the world and shamefully claims that it is not Russia but the West Imperialism who kept bloodshed continued in this country. To get rid of bloodshed charge in Afghanistan, Russia gave a long list of other countries as jf waged war in Afghanistan, three neighbouring countries such as China Pakistan and Iran, and three Arab countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kwait and Egypt. Western powers as Britain and Vvest Germany were also blamed together, as America on the top. By saying this, Moscow has always connived at presence of Read Army units inside Afghanistan. By passing the time, Moscow blamed two countries frequently, i.e., America on the top and the leadership of Pakistan as the co-partner of Viashington, interfering Afghanistan.
    Now, eight years have passed -of the Russian puppet regime in Kabul and six years of Russian direct invasion on Afghanistan. During this long period, it was not only clear for all peace-loving nations, but also for the nationalities .under Bolsheviks' rule that there is only one power who is trying to extend its tyrany over Afghanistan and other parts of the world; It is Communist Russia and its well-equiped Red Army units who carried on barbarism in Afghanistan. It is better to mention here that Russian
 troops who are replaced after every six months, are harbinger of the Afghan sad events for different nationalities of - the globe. Regarding the Continuance of bloodshed in Afghanistan, Communist Russia has always tried to put a new terminology for that, which is the so called (situation arround Afghanistan. By giving such names to Afghan crisis, Russians want to show; that:
    (i)      The bloody coup of their agents in Kabul (April, 1978) was a revolution in Afghanistan, such a revolution started by workers and peasants, while actually no worker and. peasant were engaged in this treachery. It was only Khalqies and per-chames who ere running before Russians to come in to power.'
    (ii)    Misleading the public opinion about the presence of their Red Army in Afghanistan and claim falsely that a legitimate government has asked Moscow to send Red Army units in to Afghanistan, under the bilateral friendly treaty.
    (iii)   To claim shamefully that the people of Afghanistan have not revolted against the presence of Russian's Army, but against the other foreign powers, or at least they are provoked by Western Imperialism against the Russian friendly presence in Afghanistan.
    (iv) There is no any other conceptregard-
Sept - Oct 1986
29
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
 ing the present situation in Afghanistan, except the new move which has been started arround Afghanistan, by saying this, Russians want to say that there is nothing inside Afghanistan. It is Western powers and countries of the region who make disturbance in Afghanistan. By such claims Russians try to convince public opinion of the world and Red Impire, that if there had not been interference from outside, there would have been no revolt inside Afghanistan. But saying this, Russia was not able to put the mask of friendship and peace rotary on her face. From the very beginning, the people all over the world knew about the ambition of Russia. They knew that Russian's support of April Coup was the first step of Russians plan to enter Afghanistan. Afterward, they saw why Russia has sent her strong army to Afghanistan. The people of the world saw
 who has started blood-shed in Afghanistan and who is killing and torturing the innocent people of Afghanistan. The people of the world see who arose the decitful question of (situation arround Afghanistan).
                                                                                         Hiding and covering the truth is possible
for a short time, but it is impossible for ever. Communist Russia was able at the beginning to lead the situation in Afghanistan as it wished by bringing in to power a
puppet regime in Kabul and sending its troops in to Afghanistan, but it was not able to mislead the public opinion and overcome on Afghans* wishes to live free in an Islamic State of their own.
    After six years barbarism, today, Russians unwillingly accepted their expansionist policies which was the beginning of massacres, destruction and torturing in Afghanistan. Now, the Russians are convinced to put only Americans as their rival on the list of powers who interfered in Afghanistan. Now, Moscow is forced to say something about political solution of Afghan problem. Now the Russians are oblk.ged to ask for international (guarantee) about Afghanistan. By asking such guarantee, Russia shamefully tries to show that it was not Red Impire, but. other powers who are responsible for bloodshed in Afghanistan. But Russians themselves see that only Red Army has initiated barbarism in Afghanistan.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
30
Sept - Oct 1986
By: M. Zaher Siddique Ph.D
     Regarding Jehad of Afghanistan, now one point is clear for all, that Russians are totally disappointed to conquer this country by continuing bloodshed and destruction. In the first two years of invasion, Soviet rulers thought falsely that after some fierce blows, Afghan people will not be able to resist against strong units of the Red Army. Now, the number of Afghan marty rs has exceeded roughly to about 1,200,00. The number of refugees has gone up to 3,000,000 in Pakistan, around 1,500,00 in Iran and more than
 2,000,000 inside country. Almost at every step in Afghanistan, the signs of the Russian tanks chains are seen. These tanks and armoured vehicles are continuously making headway towards the innocent defenceless people even in very remoted areas as well as in towns and villages. Russian tanks and gunships are always chasing Mujahideen in all places, on the height of the mountains and in deep vallies, over vast deserts and on plain areas.
     After six years brutal bombing and shelling, Russians left only mines, of burned villages and towns after themselves. For example Qandahar the home of about 300,000 people relatively a modern city, is now completely ruined by Russian bombs and rockets. Herat the most historical city in the Western part of the country, has been damaged savagely by Russians. Even some very . important monuments, such as Gauhr Shad Town are destroyed by Russian wild Army units. In many parts of the country only the fuines of inhabited areas are seen. No cue of life, no sign of cultivation and no foot fall of move can be detected now.
     The.high number of our martyres, the all sided destruction of the country and exis-
 tence of about seven million homeless and refugees outside and inside the country, are three good unparallel examples of the resolu-ted and continuous resistance of our people.
    During this long period of slaughtering and oppression, Russians were not even able to impose a puppet regime on us. Babrak Karmal, who had promiser*' his masters of taming our people, was removed of his given post after six years hollow and baseless speeches. By putting Dr. Najib, a new student of (KGB) and an .obedient servant of Kremlin, Russians pretended to show retreat from their rough former policy. They falsely claimed of improving the situation, stopping the bloodshed, and thus invited refugees including Afghan fighters to return home and work together in the country. All these requests as a part of tactics of Gommiinists, could not catch due response. Further more soldiers fled more and more from military service and joined. Mujahideen. This is another sign of Jehad success.
    In the world scene, after our continuous just struggle, Moscow is trying to hide her shameful face and bloody hands from others. Now, the words of Russians are unlistened No'Moscow, proposals are heared, no hand of friendship is extended to Russia, no sign of optimism is seen on dirty and cruel faces of Bolsheviks. Russians always face the barage of objections against themselves. All of their Commitments? visits and proposals are dishonoured by other nations. Everywhere the people and governments of the nations condemned the Russians for their causeless aggression. In every gathering or conference Hall, Russian delegates appear with pale faces. In the last session of U.N. General Assembly, Russians once more noticed the
Sept-Oct 1986
31            THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
result of their bloosdhed in Afghanistan. 122 countries strongly condemned Moscow, and demanded immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan. Now, we proudly see that it is the leadership of Jehad that is recognised as the sole representative of our people. Last July Prof: Burhanuddin . Rabani spokesman of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen was invited along with six other leaders of the Alliance by US President Ronald Reagan and French Leaders to visit Washington and Paris. These Official visits had always brought reputation for our. Jehad. This direct contact with the leaderships and people of these countries and informing them about grievance of our oppressed people, this dissemination has brought good results. This is another brilliant sign of our success against Russian invaders.
     Facing great obstacles in the way of their ambitions and failing of their satanic plans, Russian forces, after facing strong resistance, seek trace on some strong fronts of our Jehad. It was followed by exchanging war prisoners between two sides. Afterward they started to move their heads for political
solution of Afghan Problem. And very recently in last June, Gorbachove, ruler of Communist Russia said in Uladi Vastok that seven Russian Army Units will come out from Afghanistan by the end of this year. This can be pointed as another sign of Soviets' fatigue.
    Now, Moscow is assured that its efforts for arbitration between Khalk and Parcham is also failed. During the last two months many persons in puppet regime have been dismissed of the key posts. All these removals are done because of the deep differences existing between two factions of the Communist party. This can be another good sign of Jehad success against Russian invaders.
    The present position of Russians' Policy shows that they are trying to find a way to get rid of this while:pool, which is named by them a bloody wound.
    We believe that now, world sincere support in clear term is pre requisite forcing Russia to withdraw from Afghanistan.
    The people of Afghanistan have done their best to reach just, now it is the turn of the world, especially the Muslim and free world, to stand firmly for defending the cause of Afghan people.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
32
Sept-Oct 1986
INTERVIEW
   Following is the text of the Interview with Cammander Abdul Baseer of Badakhshan
    Following is the text of interview with commander Abdul Baseer, of Badukhshan province.
 Q; How do you evaluate Mujahideen's position against Russian forces? How is the situation of jehad?
 A: The position of Mujahideen is quite satisfactory, the ranks of the jehad\areiwell organized and developed. Question of fatigue and defeatism does not arise. If we could include Islamic values in our daily life, I am sure — we would achieve tremendous in our war against Russia. It would ultimately bring the crack down of the invading army. The Russian forces often violate the norms of war, committing inhuman atrocities.
 Q: Which areas of Badakhshah are liberated? Vvhatare your plans for those areas?
 A: In Badakhshan province, most districts are liberated. The districts of Ragh, Darwaz, and Kisham are under the control- of Mujahideen; Air port and Vvakharn are in Russians possession. The Russian forces bombed the liberated zones as a result of which heavy damages. caused to the civil population. They are destroying farms and villages, which are considered to be the strongholds of our Mujahideen. Our freedom fighters mostly relay upon their assistance;
 Q: As a commander what is your opinion about the future of Jehad?
 A: Our rightful war is going on against aggressive and despotic power. It is a protected war. In order to win the war, the observance of the following postulates is important
 1. Vve must belive in our victory and errv
    brace martyrdom with pleasure.
 2.  Co-ordination of Mujahideen for effective and successful joint operations.
 3.  Persuation of young generation to participate in war.
 4.  Increase of war offensives and escalation of Jehad operations against the invaders.
 5.  Reorganization of political, cultural arid military forces as a reliable unit, for the continuation of war.
 6.  Purification of Mujahideen's ranks from infiltration and influence of outsiders.
 7.  Evacuation of old men, and children, from war zones to neighbouring countries.
 8.  To mobilize political and economic pressure against Soviat Russia through international organizations and different nations.
 9.  Breaking off diplomatic ties of Islamic countries with Russia.
 10. Adequate provision of arms to keep balance of power against Russian forces well-equiped.
 11. In case, Russians are not willing to withdraw their forces from Afghanistan, and continue their aggression onour people, we will transfer our war beyond the Oxus river, inside Soviet territory.
    If the Russians had to use Atomic bomsb, it will make no difference for us, either we are in Afghanistan or outside our country. Q: How is the situation of Jehad, Have you and any list of casualties of enemy or Mujahideen?
 A-: General situation of Jehad is far better, compared with last year. The moral of our oppressed people are very high, thought
Sept-Oct 1986
43                 THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
 tney suffered a lot. The enemy is disappointed. They had no confidence on Babrak Karmal. They realised that Babral^ has no foothold among people. The invadin army do not obey the norms of wars. They kill all people, women and children. They burn crops, try to cause famine in Afghanistan.
     Casualties of Russians, killed 53, wounded 300, captured 30.A lot of arms and ammunition were captured by Mujahideen, likewise 30 martyred and 100 wounded 0f Mujahideen and civilians.
 Q: Have you ever received aid from outside?
 A: No, not yet. We have to rely on ourselves, but we need assistance from Islamic countries. Their assistance must be substantial. Q: What is your message to Mujahideen and Afghan refugees living abroad?
 A: Our mujahideen in different fronts must make it certain that they will achieve their victory through sacrifice of thousands of
their brethren. They should continue their
 sacrifices, to establish divine sovereignty upon the surface of the earth.
     Those who are residing in foreign lands must remember battle fronts, support and should be faithful to our Jehad. Afghan physicians who are settled in other countries must remember Afghan Jehad. They should return and join the Jehad ranks. If to day, they are reluctant to do so, tpmorrow they can't live a dignified life in Afghanistan.
     It was Russia who martyred more than 1,200,000 innocent Afghan people. It was Russia who destroyed the map of Afghanistan. It was Russia Who forced more than
 5,000,000 people to leave their dear country. It is only Russia who must give guarantee of not interfering in Afghanistan. It is Russia to pay for all its evils which has done by this evil in Afghanistan and it is only Afghans who are fighting bravely against aggressors.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
34
Sept-Oct 1986
*
 J
 Kunduz
    Reports from Kunduz province say that a Russian convey intended to enter the Ali Abad area of Kunduz province on 27th of July, in abid to pressgang the local people to army. The Mujahideen, being already informed of the Russians' plan, were lying 'in ambush at Qahdari desert.
    Reaching the Mujahideen's positions, the convey was ambushed and a fierce encounter flared up between the Mujahideen and the Russians. The encounter commenced at-l-p.m and continued for 3 hours in a row.
    Using sam sam cannons and rocket, launchers, the Mujahideen destroyed an armoured tank and 2 personnel carrier Gaz Vehicles. Meanwhile, 2 Russians and 5 Afgnan soldiers were killed, wh.ereas several others were wounded, and the convey was forced to back track.
 Balkh
    The Mujahideen of Zabihullah (shaheed) fronts are reported to have killed 3 members of Khad in Hairatan on July 5. Reports from Mazar-i-Sharif say that the Mujahideen attacked 3 government posts at Bagh Auraq village on the 10th of July. Heavy conflict flared up between the Mujahideen and the government forces. During the encounter, the posts were completely destroyed and 12 communists were killed on the spot.
    The Mujahideen of Balkh district are reported to have wiped out the security
posts at Narh-i-Speenkot on July 12, 30 . communists were killed and 38 others were wounded. The following items were captured as spoils.
1— 2—mortars
2— 10—Kalashinkov assult rifles.
3— 1—P.K. machinegun
4— 1—T.T pistol
    The Mujahideen returned safely to their positions.
Samangan
    The Mujahideen of Jamiat-i-lslami in Khulm district are reported to have blown

rjsTr,bs“8BBya°sT»o3VW5 cccp uSSr

        ..
 Hun         ------
 OratW----
 Aata ii iietTo pnjKMiiiiR     _
 ....;< Z7 TgjffifgdU < s
 MtiTtUOHMWTUO             \
  W -----------------------
  . K'llMk LIUIU'I1
     Asm
 ». 543108
                                                                                             Bm-wc
 TAH
  ii#TCI»(W« ipai»CnOI>THIJt CpMCTB. IIJ VIlpM-
       t JWt*     )
  Ut-dCTBH
A                                               
  AITOWUOM* (JJ                                 
  yTty»»«nyff*i. > Af, p*>                      
B {MlKOHliult kUe'WiAIrtCuA »l*          S'     
  TornAS *Ui> npomiilHT11 2$Kl «r               
  (77UO iJ»yntiSb) ii -humid tmiiii't           
  Meet • KAfppUfc »|iri»flMrt Ciljn|i|,»        
C Aliulirtfluim, Irpr/tMVttUietHWn       hWMtii 
  rppOB, (tapeiutH-                             
  HiJft. MiKi-BVMi.hnA • fcnrnpi/t'             
  npcHWiusc’s 3WK1 *r | ?fOO                    
  Ant**«t»fl«i.'.i», nprjmWiMim*                
D xm ri-XlM-HpO* • «*♦»*>.                      
  nine 66m* 0 CPBB’IMX Mftcl,                   
  nom-Mo rnartitiA uruirea*.                    
             Cvn»HW ipMKHnpMIMX CfVJkCtU        
  c twkim, oiK'-cu'unMn k «*f<*o*               
  |w»m B, C Mtn D. jrorep*-*** «k»-      ---i.  
  wivA BP*»n yppii&nmi, «o                      
  <«nvf»ue « ixoatf c**»n b tuny                
  ki ■ »r*« s#i*rc(kii Ain * *u-                
uoOut a rwtTOK                   -03J /£</
lHIcrmWIItiio *■-/*> p? V - J9 K Jj'i
A Soviet driver, killed in Paghman.
  WW rOJrtiHB. f o?
Sept-Oct 1986
35
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
 up an army truck on 25th of July, by planting anti-tank mine on the Khulm high way. All the crew of the truck numbering 23, were killed on the spot.
    According to the reports receiving from Samangan, the Mujahideen led by Maulvai Mohammad Zaher shot down 2 helicopter gunships and destroyed 3 armoured tanks and 5 vehicles during a clash between the Mujahideen and the Sovret-Kabul forces on July 29. All the crew of trie destroyed tanks and vehicles were killed. 'One tank was also captured, the report added .
    The Mujahideen under the command of Qazi Faizullah are reported to have conducted a victorious operation on the enemy forces which resulted in the killing of 13 militiamen and capturing their handed arms.
    On the Mujahideen's side, six brothers were martyred. We are creatures of Allah and return to him.
 Nangarhar
    Reports from Nangarhar 'province say that the Mujahideen of Hazrat-i-Saad front blocked the Jalalabad-Torkham high way for 12 days, and on 5th, July a fierce clash
 broke out between the Mujahideen and the atheist forces. The fighting lasted for several consecutive hours and resulted in the death of an officer by the name of Farooq and the wounding of several soldiers, whereas one tank was also destroyed. On the side of the Mujahideen, brother Khair Mohammad was martyred. We are creatures of Allah and return to him.
 Badakh shall
    The Mujahideen of Amanuddeen (Sha-heed) fronts of Jurm disrt are recently reported to have conquered Government posts at Dashtak village.’ As a result of the operation on the posts, 6 Kalashinkov assult rifles, one, P. K. machinegun, 2 R.P Ds, one heavy machingun and 200 boxes of differt ammunition were captured as boty.
    A another recent report says that the Mujahideen demolished security posts of Chackdan village and captured 80 kalashinkov assult rifles, 2 D, Sh. Ks, 2 mortars and 5 P.K. machinegunes.
    The report further says that the Mujahideen have launched another victorious operation on Bashand military posts. As a con-
f
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
36
Sept - Oct 1986
 sequence of exchanging heavy eyid consecutive fires the posts were completely demolished and the following were captured as spoils.
 1—  135 Kalashinkove assult rifles.
 2—  22 P.K. machineguns.
 3—  12 heavy machineguns.
 4—  10000 rounds of different ammunition*.
 5—  200 bag food staff.
    The losses of the Mujahideen have not been ascertained.
    The Mujahideen in Baharak sub district of Badakhshan province are reported to have conducted , a series of operations on Dash-tak, Poshistan, Sufyan and Ghaino areas posts on June last. The Mujahideen led by Sayed Najmuddin, managed to kill 200 Russians and their local puppets and capture 10, militiamen
    On the side of the Mujahideen 12 were martyred and 20 others were injured. It is added that 106 AK—47s, 2 HMGs, 2 light weapons, 2 Barnows, 1 mortar and 200000 rounds of different kinds of ammunition were captured as war spoils by the Mujahideen.
 Kuner
    According to the report from Peich distt, a bloody fighting brokeout between the Mujahideen and Soviet — Kabul forces on 7th August. The. encounter started at 8 pm and lasted to 3, am.-In the course of exchanging heavy fires, and using different heavy and light weapons, 12 Soviets and 3 local puppets were killed and many others were seriously wounded, while an ammunition depot and a set of wireless were destroyed and 10000 rounds of different ammunition and 50 heavy and light weapons were captured as spoils.
    The losses of the Mujahideen have not been reported.
             KABUL-PAGHMAN 26/27th. August 86.
    Reports from Kabul say that the Muajahi-deen led by Mula Ezat have pinpointed the
 location of ammunition dump of Qargha and then worked to find the accurate distance. When they fired rocket 107, the first rocket went out of target, but the second rocket at 21:30 hours hit the ammunition dump. According to a reliable source 9 ammunition stores were destroyed completely.
 13th. August 86.
    The Mujahideen in Darazargar of Pagh -man were heayly bombarded and shelled by the enemy forces. On the same day their infantry troops also tried to advance to the Dara Zargar valley, but they were repulsed by the Mujahideen. On 14th August, again their ground forces advanced through Surkh Khotal pass, but this time the Mujahideen were waiting in ambush site for th*e enemy. In the clash which tookplace, heavy losses were inflicted on the enemy troops and the they were drawn back. The following losses were inflicted on the enemy forces.
 1.30 enemy troops were killed and 20 others were wounded.
 2. Two tanks were destroyed by 107 rockets.
  ■ Two Mujahideen and two villagers were martyred and fbur others were wounded. 12 houses were damaged.
 2nd September 86.
    The Mujahideen led by brothers Islamud-deen and Gul Afghan, jointly, attacked a Soviet convey near Pagh man valley on Sept, 2, and a bloody clash brokeout between the Mujahideen and the Soviet troops. The Mujahideen managed to kill somany Russian troops and destroy a number their armoured tanks and personnel carrier vehicles.
                                                        Arghandi
 11th. July 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. ambushed a Govt, convey in Kotal Takht Arghandi area on main road of Kabul — Khandahar. The fighting which lasted for four hours, resulted in the destruction of one tank, four vehicles
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
Sept - Oct 1986
37
 and the death of 18 soldiers. Meanwhile 20 soldiers were wounded. The Mujahideen suffered no losses.
 27th. August 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A attacked two Govt, posts in Tangi Abrishem and one Russian chack post on main road of Kabul Jalalabad. According to reliable reports 15 Russian soldiers were killed or wounded. Two posts have been destroyed completely, but their losses are not ascertained.
                                          FARYAB PROVINCE- AND KHOY DISTRICT
 18th July 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. raised a Govt, post which was located on main road of Andkhoy — Gheberghan in Shah-e-Mardan Baba Shirne. The post was captured, 12 puppet soldiers were killed and 33 others were wound. Six AK—47s, four 303 rifles, three pistols and a large quantity of ammuniction were captured. At the same time 14 Mujahideen were wounded.
    On 18th of July, thp Govt, sent force to the Shah-e-Mardan Baba shrine to re-
establish the post. The Mujahideen abmdshed the force two tanks and one Ape were des troyed, and 6 supply vehicles laden with food staff were captured. 4 trucks food staff was distributed by Mujahideen of J.I:A. to the villagers. The enemy was defeated and could not reestablish the post.
                                              BAGHLAN PUL-E-KHOMRY"
30. July 86.
    The Russian and their puppets planned to establish new posts along the supply route of Mujahideen at Pul-e-Khomry area, so they advanced to the area. The Mujahideen resisted and fought them. As a result, heavy losses were inflicted on the Russian puppet troops and they failed in their plan. Elevan tanks and 3 vehicles were destroyed by RPGs and their crew were either killed or wounded. Totally 86 Russians and their puppets were killed and many others were wounded in this clash. Four Mujahideen were martyred and 6 others were wounded, four AK—47s, one pistol and one wireless were captured as war
spoils'          JAJI
23 July. 86,
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. attacked a Jaji
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
38
Sept - Oct 1986
 Maidan security post, inwhch two Afghan soldiers were killed and three others were wounded.
           PAKTIA-GARDIZ 6th August, 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. attacked DRA posts, located 5 km away from Gardiz. The Mujahideen managed to destroy one post and captur one shelka (DCM) and three AK~47s.
        ALI SHIR SUB-DISTRICT 23rd July, 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. attacked Ali shir H.Q. and security posts. Two rooms of one post and its H.Q. were destroyed.
                                                 MIRZAK
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. conducted an operation in Mirzak area against some people who received arms from Govt, where 12 people were killed and 4 others were captured. On 3rd August, the Govt, attacked Mir-zak area • to hamper the operation of Mujahideen. In the clashe, 6 tanks, 2 vehicles and two Jeeps were destroyed.
                                              SAYED KARAM
     Mujahideen of J.I.A attacked Govt, troops position in Sayed Karam area. According to reports, from 23rd July to 19th August 50 oboos guns and 5 APCS were destroyed and one arm store was blown up, 70 DRA soldiers and militias were killed.
           PAKTIKA- ORGOON 23rd August, 86.
     Nine months back Brigade 15 of Or-goon set up a post at Bagh area in a bid to cut off Mujahideen's supply route. Mujahideen of the J.I.A. under the command of Maulavi Abdul Rahim have recently attacked
 the post ancf demolished several of its positions. The report adds that the post is about to fall in to the control of the Mujahideen.
        NANGARHAR PROVINCE 31st July 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A jointly with other parties Mujahideen launched a series of operations on Reshi Ghondey post. The operations lasted for three days, and heavy losses were inflicted on Govt', 8 DRA troops were killed and 10 othes were wounded. 8 Mujahideen were martyred.
                                              PAKTIA-GARDIZ
 9/10th August 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. attacked phalawan, post and Arkhi battalion. 4 rocket 107s were captured, four DRA were killed, one supply vehicle and the house of the commander of the post were destroyed.
 15/16 August and 16/17 August 86.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A attacked Arkhi battalion with rocket 107 for two nights. One rocket hit the ammunition store of the battalion, which was completely destroyed.
 2nd Sep. 86.
    A huge force has come to Orgoon area and Mujahideen of J.I.A. along with other parties Mujahideen are fighting. On 2nd sep. Mujahideen; of J.I.A. shot down one MIG-t$ and destroyed three thanks and two vehicles. Four Mujahideen were martyred and 10 others were wounded.
 Perwan
    A report from Parwan province says that as a result of an operation which was conducted by the Mujahideen on Jangal Bagh post on the 3rd of July, four parchamates were arrested with their arms and some different kinds of ammunition were captured.
39             THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
Sept - Oct 1986
    Another recent report says that the Mujahideen have launched a victorious operation cm an enemy convey on the highway between Charikar, and Gul Bahar, killing 3 officers, 8 soldiers, and arresting 3 other soldiers. 2 personnel carrier vehicles have also been destroyed
 Herat
    According to a report from Herat province, the Mujahideen of Jamiat-i-lslami destroyed 2 thanks and killed all the crew in a face to face fighting at Ghoryan area on 26th of July. In the same date, the Mujahideen under the command of Sofi Mohd Rahim attacked the surrounding posts of Herat city. The Mujahideen demolished 4 posts, and killed 20 atheists, while 27 other communists were wounded seriously.
 a bloody encounter flared up between the Mujahideen and the Soviet - Kabul forces. As a result of 3 hours constant exchange of fires, 21 armoured tanks were destroyed or badly damaged, and 15 communist troops including 5 militias were killed on the spot.
 Logar
     According to thp report from Logar province the Mujahideen of the central zone attacked a Russian - Kabul supplying convey at Kolangar on 26th of July. The convey was headed from Kabul to Paktia. Reaching Kolangar area, the convey was held under the fire and a bloody clash broke out between .the Mujahideen and Soviet-Kabul forces. '$! Consequently, 2 armoured tanks were destroyed by firing rocket launchers and 12 Soviet troops were killed on the spot.
    Similarly, the Mujahideen of Hazrat-i-Hamza (Radhiallahu Anhu) Front in an effective operation on the 4th rigiment, located 15 km away from 1 7th division*to the North-West of Herat city, set the weapons and ammunation dump and oil reservoir on fire. The Mujahideen returned safely to their base.
 Kuner.
    Receiving reports from Kuner province say that, the Mujahideen armed with rocket launchers and mortars, attacked the frontier battalion and the posts of IChas Kuner on 18th of July. As a result, 5 Soviet troops, 3 militias were killed and 4 other soldiers were wounded. The Mujahideen Suffered nd losses in this battle.
    Another report from Narhang district says that the Mujahideen using Bm 12 have attacked the security post at Kotakai village on July 21, which resulted int the killing of .2 militias and badly damaging of the post.
    The Soviet - Kabul troops are reported to have entered Pashad village to attack the Mujahjdeen's positions on July 23, and
    The report adds that an other convey wanted to supply the Shahidan post, was attacked by the Mujahideen in Baraki Barak distt. Which resulted in the killing of 22 atheists and destruction of 3 armoured tanks.
    The Mujahideen are reported to have attacked the Ahchakan head quarter of the Soviet - Kabul forces, near Gardeiz, on 20th of July. The Mujahideen, using missiles managed to destroy 5 armoured, tanks and 12 vehicles.
 3rd July, 1986.
    Mujahideen of J.I.A. attacked a security post of the enemy force, recently entered at Jaji Maidan area-45 soldiers were killed and tow others were captured alive.
		 		
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD                   40;                        Sept-Oct 1986
THE CARVAN OF MARTYRS
               ■ ■^SCggB. lr. - L ■   11 II
    Martyr Abdul basir s/o Muhamaddu was born at Abb-azak of loger" Province in 1956. He was an honest and crave Mujahid He participated in several battles against the soviet — Kabul troops and imposed heavy life, property and equipments losses on the enemy. He had a good — behaviour and was respected by all.
    He was martyred in a face -to — face conflict with Soviet — Afghan troops on 13th, july. 85. Vve are creatures of Allah and return to him.
    Muhammad Adram s/o Muhammad Hassan was born at Torpkhto, village of Mai-muna the provincial capital of Faryafc province about 17 years ago. He — was a brave Mujahid. He inflicted heavy life and property ' losses on the enemy forces.\ Finally
     Sept - Oct 1986
 he was martyred on 30th April, 85 at the age of 17.
   Martyr Sufi Muhammad Afzal.
   Sufi Mahd — Afzal was
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ""rs\
 born at Deh Saidan village of Faryab Province in 1955. He was a devouted Mujahid His bravary raised him to the position commander
241
 of the city guerrilla group of Faryab Province. He was Martyred on 2nd May 85 - whit, killing several enemy troops.
Khalifa Abdur — Rahman:
   Martyr^ Khalifa Abdur — Rahman s/o Merza Muhammad resident of' Maimuna copital of — Faryab province — vtfas born in 1947. He was an active Mujahid. He participated in many battles a gains the enemy. He was Martyred in a vis-a-vis encounter between Mujahideen and Soviet Kabul forces on November 29 — 83 at the age of 36.
   Martyr Shazada s/o Muhammad Reza belonging to Husain Kheil Village — Jeghatoo district of Ghazni province, was born in 1959. He was a friendly Mujahid and all of his
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
 fellows respected him.
   Shazada carried out many successful operations and imposed heavy losses on the enemy. He was martyred in a fierce conflect with the soviet - Karma I troops on July 8 -- 85. Vve are creatures of Allah and retur'n to him.
Martyr Gulab Khan
   Gulab Khan s/o Haji Jalat resident Sharif Kheil village Jeghatoo distt. of Ghazni province was born in 1957.
   He started armed jehad against the Soviets and their hirelings in 1980. His honesty and bravery caused him to be appointed as the commander of the artilary group and responsible body for the general strong holds in Ghazni province. .He was mertyred and reached his final aim on August 12 — 1985. May his soul be in rest.
 Martyr M. Azim
   Muhammad Azim s/o Muhammad Karim was born at Rauza Imam-Saheb district of Kunduz province in 1958, He was graduated from Imam Saheb high school in 1978. After ward, he was conscrip-
ted to army. After six months of his being a soldier, he escaped from the army and joined the Mujahideen in his region.
   He attacked many battles and imposed unbearable losses on the atheists.
   He was martyred in a fierce clash between the Mujahideen and the Soviet — Kabul troops on 23rd of July, 1985.
   Martyr Abdurrassol s/o of Muhammad Ebrahim resident of Torpakhtoo village Andk-hoy distt. Fariab province, was born in a pea sent family. He received Islamic Knnow-Idege from his village Imam. After ward, he studied in some private religious schools (Madrasas). When the shameful April 27 coup took place in Afghanistan, he established contact with the Mujahideen
 of his province. In 1979, he joined Moulavi Abdul Gha-foor a prominent commander and started armed jehad under his command. After A. Gha-foor was martyred, Abdur — Rasool joined the central zone Mujahideen and continued his jehad.
   During two years of armed struggle he showed bravery and good feeling to Islam and Islamic jehad. On 3rd of June, 85, he was martyred during a fierce conflict between the Mujahideen and the atheist troops. May his soul rest in peace.
   Martyer Sakhi Murad s/o Khwaja Qul resident of Sherin Tagab district, Smangan province, was born in a religious and pieous family in 1938. When taraki was installed
 on the saddle of power in Kabul, he immediately waged armed struggle against the invading Russians and their lackves in Afghanistan. He imposed heavy losses on the enemy,, and killed several atheist troops. Finally, he was martyred in a sanguinary battle with the invading Russians and their local puppets on 10th March, 1986.
THE MIRROR OF JEHAD
242
Sept - Oct 1986

     0ur    ^M
t. m ah s C$alis<fiaciien is Our $im.
2.  TfUi ammad (pbuh) is Our Header.
3.  l&lte 9teliji Q. uran is Our Haul
4.  ftiliad f-er the &ause the $ltniyhiti $llah is Our all*.
5.
Tflarlyrdem /or tk, e ause 4 m alt ((Qlori<f-icalion be upen him) is Our (Cherished Qtepe
And they call us savage!