V.ol 8, No 13                   July 1,1992
Ustaz Rabbani is new leader of Islamic State
  Based on the Peshawar groups would have joined the govern- attend the mcciing of ihe Jehadi agreement, the head of the menu Hczb Wahdat was offered three Council and decide about leadership of Jehadi Council, Prof, cabinet posts, including the ministry of the country. Since the move was a clear Mujaddidi formally handed national security, one post in the violation of the Peshawar accord and over power to the chairman of Leadership Council and eight scats in had no legal basis, Jami'al did not allow
 i:he Leadership Council, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, on June 28, defusing a crisis which could have destabilized the country.
      In a ceremony held in the presidential palace in Kabul, Prof. Mjjjaddidi handed over power to Prof. Rabbani. Members of the Jehadi and Leadership Councils and some diplomats watched the ceremony.
      Speaking on the occasion. Prof. Rabbani thanked the leadership council for their trust and asked their cooperation in carrying out his extremely difficult task. He said: "Giving me this post to me is not a privilege but a huge responsibility".
      Prof. Mujaddidi read out a prepared text in which he highlighted his achievements in the two months in office. His speech was critical of some Mujahideen panics and leaders, especially Jami'al and Defence Minister Ahmad Shah Masood. He complained that Masood did not cooperate with him fully.
      He had initiated some clever political moves airbed at finding new allies to support him in his effort to prolong his office term. He promoted a large number of army officers. Mujahideen commanders and some civilians to the rank of general. If Mujaddidi's tenure had been extended, Afghanistan would have had more generals than any country in the world.
      Another initiative by Mujaddidi was signing an agreement with the National Islamic Movement, headed by General Dostum and Hczb Wahdat, a Shia party, based on which the .two*
 the Jehadi Council. One ministerial post and five seals in the Jehadi Council were offered to the National Islamic Movement. Mujaddidi signed this agreement without consulting other Mujahideen leaders.
      The Jehadi Council was formed in Peshawar to help the transfer of power from the communist regime to the Mujahideen. It has 51 members, five from each party. _
      The campaign launched by Mujaddidi to remain in power began one week after reaching Kabul. He told journalists that two months is a short time and people were demanding that his office term be extended. The closer Mujaddidi came to the end of his tenure, the more active he grew in taking practical steps to remain in power.
      He accused the Leadership Council of violating the Peshawar accord and said that he was not obliged to observe it. He convened meetings of his supporters from different parts of Afghanistan who called for prolongation of his office term.
      Although all other Mujahideen leaders were in favor of implementation of the Peshawar accord, Mujaddidi considered Jami'at and Commander Masood as the main obstacles on his' way.
      This was the reason behind a propaganda campaign launched by Mujaddidi against Jami'at and Masood . He used mosques, TV and radio to air his criticisms. His speeches were 'so provocative that the authorities in radio and TV omitted some Rails.
      In his last days in office, Mujaddidi demanded that TV and radio broadcast a statement calling for five representatives from each province to
 it to be broadcast. This provoked Mujaddidi to accuse Jami'at of using radio and TV to promote its political objectives.
      Hczb Islami played a double-edged game in regard to Mujaddidi's campaign for prolongation of his office term. Hczb publicly criticized Mujaddidi for not observing the Peshawar accord but privately sent delegations to him and some other leaders expressing its readiness to accept prolongation of his office term for a limited period of time. It seems that Hczb wanted to exploited the crisis created by refusal of Mujaddidi to transfer power on time.
      But the farsightedness of other Mujahideen leaders did not allow the Hc/.b’s trick to work. All leaders, including Pir Gailani and Mawlawi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, who were considered natural allies of Mujaddidi, advised him to. abide by d\c agreement and transfer power to Prof. Rabbani.
      After the transfer of power. Prof. Sayyaf, who had relumed from his base in Paghman to Kabul, described the event as significant and briefed journalists about the second phase of the interim government. He expressed support to Prof. Rabbani. Answering a question, he said that Farid, the prime minister designated by Hczb, did not have the authority to change cabinet ministers because the present government has been created by the agreement of the Mujahideen parties.                   .
      Sayyaf rejected allegations leveled by Mujaddidi that he was responsible for initiating war against Hczb Wahdat and he was preparing for another round of confrontation.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page @
Who is who in the Mujahideen
Prof. Burhannuddin Rabbani
    Ustaz Burhanuddin Rabbani, the first head of the Islamic State of Afghanistan and one of the founding figure of the Islamic Movement, has spent most of his life in struggle to safeguard the territorial and ideological frontiers of the country.
    He had the honor of founding Jami'at Islami Afghanistan, the party which played a key role in 14 years of Jehad against the Soviet Union and its puppets. Mujahideen commanders such as Ahmad Shah Masood. Ismail . Khan, -Zabihullah Shaheed and scores of others whose services to Jehad were so vital emerged under his leadership.
    Ustaz was living in exile in Peshawar, Pakistan, when the communist coup of 1978 took place in Kabul. He had left Afghanistan in 1974 when President Daud began to suppress the Islamic Movement. He went first to the tribal areas and then to Peshawar.
    Daud's regime jailed many members of the Islamic Movement. Prof. Rabbani and a small number of other leaders of movement, who had managed to avoid arrest, discussed their future strategy in exile. They reached the decision that with the presence of communist elements within the Claud's government, there was no chance for the movement to take part in the political process.
    They decided to prepare for military operations against the communist elements to force Daud to change his pro-communists policies. The government of Zulfiqar Ati Butto provided some facilities for the movement because it had problems of its own with the regime in Kabul.
    In exile, Ustaz wrote articles and booklets describing the situation in Afghanistan. In one of his booklets he had predicted a dangerous future for Daud, which proved to be correct.
    He visited Saudi Arabia to ask for that country's support for the Islamic Movement King Faisal treated him with affection but refused to promote his cause because he considered Daud to be a nationalist rather than a communist.
    At this time, the Movement was divided into two groups. Gulbuddin Hikmaiyar created a new party called Hezb Islami Afghanistan. Ustaz Rabbani's attempts to keep the unity of
 the movement failed due to Hczb's extremist policies. Ustaz kept silent about differences in the movement for many years so that the door for its unity would not be closed. Differences within the party surfaced after the failure of military operations launched by the movement against Daud in 1975.
      After the April coup of 1978, the political situation in Afghanistan was drastically changed. Extremist policies of the communists prepared the people of Afghanistan for confrontation with the government. Jami'at intensified its underground activities and began to launch guerrilla attacks on the communist regime. The Islamic Movement assumed the leadership role in a spontaneous mass uprising of Afghan people against communists.
      During 14 years of Jehad, Jami'at, under the leadership of Ustaz Rabbani, emerged as the most effective party of the resistance. Jami'at fronts played the key role in defeating the Red Army. This organization had the honor of leading the final assault against the Kabul regime and contributed positively to the liberation of Afghanistan and establishment of the Islamic government in Kabul.
      Ustaz Rabbani's style of leadership gave Jami'at a chance to become an important political and military power. He did not believe in . remote control of military, operations, and gave freedom to commanders to initiate their own military operations. This policy gave a chance for the commanders with leadership qualities to expand their power and influence.
      Ustaz has refused to let his policies
 be influenced by outside powers. For a party with its political base-outside the country and being supplied from outside, it was extremely difficult to follow an independent line. But he did not barter foreign assistance lor control of Jami'at military and political programs from outside.
     Not only did Jami'at have the military initiative in its hand, iL also was very active in the political field to unite the Mujahideen. Jami’aL initiated the formation of National Liberation From wiLh the help of Prof. Mujaddidi, immediately after the communist coup. It played a key role in all the alliances formed to coordinate the Mujahideen military and political activities.
     Ustaz tried to bring Sunni and Shia parties onto one platform and committed himself to the protection of the rights of all sections of Afghan society. In these efforts, he did not seek a a special position for himself, and in most cases accepted the leadership of minor parties.
     When the Kabul regime was about to fall to the Mujahideen, the Jami’at leader, despite his ability to announce his government, struggled tirelessly for the formation of an interim government acceptable to the majority of the Mujahideen parties. These efforts succeeded and the way for transfer of power to Lhc Mujahideen was paved.
     Ustaz Rabbani has played a positive role in introduction of Jehad to the outside world. He has attended numerous seminars, conferences and other international gatherings as the representative of the Mujahideen. He has represented Afghan Mujahideen in an OIC summit and several meetings of foreign ministers of the Islamic coun-. tries. He also has paid official visits to several Islamic, Western and African countries to get their support for the Afghan Jehad. His historic meeting with Ronald Reagan was aimed ai gel ting official recognition for the Afghan resistance.
     Ustaz's efforts earned a positive image for the Afghan Jehad. The Muslim countries and Islamic move ments trusted him because he was a Muslim scholar with a marvelous record of struggle for the glory of Islam. To the Western countries, he was a wise leader with effective mill tary fronts and popular support inside the country.
     While Jami’at leadership had its root among the ordinary Afghans and its power base was in the countryside,
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page ©
 the people living in the cities were not afraid of it. The attempts by the Kabul regime to frighten the people from Jami’at proved ineffective. The Jami’at presence in Kabul is responsible for relative security in the capital and a ray of hope for peace in Afghanistan. If Jami’at plans had not been disrupted by Hezb Island's attack on Kabul, the capital would have been a much safer place than it is now.
      Ustaz has many internal and external enemies who do not spare a movement to spread false rumors about him and his party. But he rarely confronts the rival parties who indulge in such propaganda. A close look at the publications of different Mujahideen panics will show that Jami'at had adopted a conciliatory policy towards the rival Mujahideen parties. The most recent example of this is Jami'at's restraint to- -wards the flood of accusations lcvclcd-by Prof. Mujaddidi in his last days in office as the head of state.
      Some of this propaganda brands Jami'at as the party of Tajiks. But Jami'at is an Islamic movement and belongs to all sections of the Afghan society. It has served as a link between different geographical and ethnic regions of Afghanistan.
      Jami'at set a good example in the liberated areas. Il provided health and education services to the people; it built roads and irrigation channels and helped trade to flourish. Jami'at's areas were the safest in Afghanistan. It had set up a shadow government in the liberated areas which could compete with the regime.
      Ustaz Rabbani began its struggle in 1957 when he was still a student of Sharia School in Kabul. The poor economic situation in the country, corruption of government officials, social injustice, the indifference of the government officials towards the leach-, ings of Islam and the threat posed by communists To-Islam and Afghanistan forced him and his friends to declare a war against the ruling system.
      Although the Islamic Movement had a strong anti-communist dimension, it would be wrong to call it just a reaction to the upsurge of communism. The aim of the movement was to introduce fundamental changes in all aspects of the Afghans lives.
      To wage an effective struggle for achievement of his aim, Ustaz began to study revolutionary literature written by contemporary Muslim scholars. He was a good studenL and a capable writer.
      After graduation from the Faculty of Islamic Law, he was accepted as an associated professor in the same college. After two years of. teaching, he
 went to Egypt to study in the famous Al-Azhar University. Getting a Master degree in Islamic philosophy, he relumed to Kabul. In addition to teaching in Sharia Faculty, he taught Islamic subjects in the faculties of literature, education, law and police.
   ' Prof. Rabbani served as the editor-in-chief of Shariat, a monthly magazine, published by the Faculty of Islamic Law. He also wrote articles for many magazines and papers in Kabul. A review of these articles throws light on his way of thinking.
     The Jami’at leader visited Turkey and Pakistan as part of his academic, work. In Turkey, he came in contact with the followers of Saeed Norsi, a great scholar, Sufi and Mujahid. He also learned Turkish language.
     In Lahore, he met with Mawlana Maududi, the founder of Jamaai Islami of Pakistan. They discussed the future of the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and the region.
     In Egypt, Ustaz came in contact with Muslim Brotherhood. He was a witness to brutal suppression of the movement by Nasir’s regime and shameful defeat of The Arabs by Israel. These meetings and events had an affect on the way ,of thinking of Ustaz Rabbani and provided a spiritual link between the Islamic Movement in Afghanistan and the movements in other parts of the world:
     When the Islamic movement in Afghanistan decided to organize itself in 1972, Prof. Rabbani was appointed as the leader of the parly which was named Jami'at Islami Afghanistan. Jawanan-i-Musulman (Muslim youth) was ihe students wing of lhc party.
     As a result of Daud's coup, the communists spread their influence in the government. The Islamic Movement considered Daud a bridge through which communists wanted to reach power. The leaders of the movement tried to persuade Daud to abandon
 his pro-communist policies and give more freedom to the Islamic Movement. Daud told Prof. Niazi, a senior leader of the movement, that he was not opposed to Islam but was opposed to the Islam of Qala-i-Jawad (a reference to Mujaddidi family living irr the village of Qala-i-Jawad, West of the city of Kabul.
     The spread of communism under Daud forced the Islamic Movement to work inside the army. The work was supervised by Eng, Habibur Rahman, a leading students leader later killed by Daud/He took directions from the party leader. When Habibur Rahman was arrested the work did not stop. The job was given to Hikmatyar, but he did not consult the party leader very often. Daud got information about the activities of Jami’at and a crackdown began. Many leaders of the party were imprisoned. Ustaz Rabbani managed to leave the country.
     The abortive military operations in Panjshir, Laghman, Kunar and Paktia was in contradiction to the aims set by its leader. This jnistakc committed by Hikmatyar let the differences within Jami'at surface and finally resulted in the creation of Hezb in exile.
     . Ustaz Rabbani was bom. in Faizabad, the center of Badakhshan Province, in 1940. His ' father, Mohammad Yousuf was a God-fearing man.
     Ustaz studied primary and secondary schools in Faizabad before entering Darul-Uloom Sharia School in 1956. Ustaz is married and has severa children. His eldest son, Salahuddin, is a student at Riyadh University.
     Ustaz belongs to Yaftal tribe and his mother tongue is Persian. He speaks Arabic and Pushtu fluently and can communicate in Urdu, Turkish and English. Despite his preoccupations, he studies books and reads Holy’ Quran regularly. His kindness and polite man ner has earned him a lot of friends.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1,1992, page Q

           
Editorial  
__!_       
A historic event
    The peaceful transfer of power from Prof. Mujaddidi to Prof. Rabbani on June 28 was a historic event which consolidated the foundation of the new Islamic government in Afghanistan.
    This is the first time since 1901, and one of only a few times in Afghan history that power has been transferred from one person to another peacefully. The transfer of power ended a crises which could have pushed the country into chaos. The transfer of power look place according to an agreement signed by of Lhc Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar on April 24 .
    According to this agreement, two months after transfer of power from the previous Kabul regime to Jehadi Council, headed by Prof. Mujaddidi, the power will be transferred to Prof. Rabbani, the head of the Leadership Council, and he will work as the head of state for four months.
    At the end of his term, a representative council will decide about the form and composition of the interim government which will rule the country for a maximum period of two years during which an elected government will be formed.
    Doubts about a peaceful transfer of power arose when Prof. Mujaddidi began to say Lhat people wanted him to remain in office for more than two months, that the leadership issue would be decided by the nation, and that he would transfer power to the Leadership and Jehadi councils rather than to Prof. Rabbani as decided under the Peshawar Agreement.
    Mujaddidi introduced new members to the Leadership and Jehadi councils without consulting other leaders. He organized meetings of people from different parts of Afghanistan who demanded his tenure in office be prolonged. These moves created serious doubts about the peaceful and timely transfer of power to Prof. Rabbani.
    The people of Afghanistan and their foreign friends were getting worried dun a delay in transfer of power might plunge the country into a'serious crisis and endanger the relative security achieved during the past two months.
    Finally, logic and common sense prevailed and power was transferred on lime and in a peaceful manner. This was proof that the Afghan leadership has the farsightedness, maturity and resolve to solve their problems through political means. It was also a departure from the usual practices in exile, where some people got away with not fulfilling their promises if they deemed it served their personal interests.
    The transfer of power has provided grounds for full implementation of the Peshawar agreement This will pave way for the formation of an elected government in Afghanistan.
    The implementation of the Peshawar agreement could persuade those panics which have remained out of government to join Ihepolitical process and pul an end to military confrontation.
    The peaceful transfer of power relieved ordinary Afghans of the fear of war and bloodshed, and was welcomed by foreign countries who wanted to see Afghanistan peaceful.
    Now that power has been transferred, all the Mujahideen leaders should work closely for implementation of the Peshawar accord. This will be possible when security has been provided to the people of Kabul and essential commodities and services are provided to all Afghans. These aims could be achieved through collective efforts of all the Mujahideen. Four months is a short time for solving the problems that Afghanistan is facing, but the foundation of an Islamic state can be laid and obstacles removed from the path of future elected government.
    The final solution to the problems of Afghanistan is holding elections. A coordinated effort'by all the Mujahideen panics during the four months that Prof. Rabbani is in office could make this political process irreversible.
  United Nations Afghan envoy transferred
     Bcnon Sevan, the UN Sccrctary-GcneraTs special envoy to Afghanistan, was replace by Soiirios Mousouris, an ! Assistant Secretary General for ! Political Affairs, on June 19.
     The transfer of Sevan took place ! after his failure to secure a political so-• lution to the problem of Afghanistan.
| Accoring to Sevan's plan, the pow-| cr would have been transferred from i Najib to a neutral administration which j would have paved the way for holding | elections. The plan collapsed when the i Mujahideen captured Bagram and were I poised to enter Kabul.
\ Sevan tried to rescue Najib by fly-! ing him out of the country in a UN plane on April 16. When the security forces at the airport prevented Najib ; from boarding the plane, he was al-! lowed to take refuge in the UN com-| pound inside the city.
I The attempt to rescue Najib, in the t middle of night, caused some resent-| ment among the Mujahideen. It. is bc-i tieved that the UN authorities were also : annoyed by Sevan’s move because it j was interference in the internal affairs ! of Afghanistan.
     Sevan justified his action on the ground that he had promised safe passage for Najib once he had resigned and that he was fulfilling his promise.
     Sevan, ah Armenian Cypriot, spent three years trying to find a. solution to Afghanistan’s 14-ycar conflict.
     Sevan’s departure seems to be a timely decision because he considered the Mujahideen operation for the liberation of Kabul as deliberate attempt to sabotage his peace plan. With such a mentality, it would have been difficult of expect a constructive contribution to Afghanistan.
     Sevan had built a close relationship with Najibullah. Although he was more careful than his predecessors, Cordovez and Sadruddin, to keep his neutrality, at least on the surface, it was becoming increasingly obvious that he did not treat the Mujahideen with the same degree of seriousness as he treated the rulers in Kabul.
     He also had ignored the influence of field commanders such as Masood, and did not try to discuss the issue with them in the course of his shuttle peace mission.
     Najib undoubtedly has been saddened by Sevan’s departure. The UN envoy had tried to save him and was busy trying to find a way for him to leave the country.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page @
Poor journalism hurts Afghans
     Fairness and impartiality are the two qualities of good journalism. A biased reporter misleads his readers. In a country like Afghanistan where political, ideological, regional, religious and linguistic differences have complicated the situation, reporters ought to be very careful in their reporting to avoid distorting facts and ensure that readers get a balanced picture of the situation.
     The most dangerous threat to balanced reporting is the political affiliation of journalists to one of the parties in the conflict. Afghan Jehad has been witness to numerous examples of good and bad journalism in both sides of the conflict. For example, Indian journalists' reporting on Afghan affairs, regardless of the agency or publication for which they work, ■ is rarely balanced.
     The Indian bias towards the former communist regime, their suspicions of the Mujahideen, their fears about the Tricndly relations between the Mujahideen .and Pakistan and their worries about the spread of revolutionary Islam influence their reporting.
     Compare, for example, the work of Depak Tripathi, an Indian-born BBC reporter, and Chris Bowers, the BBC journalist who replaced him in 1991. Tripalhi’s reporting was a classic example of an Indian journalist's failure to, remain impartial and avoid political and ideological traps.
     The dark picture painted recently by Pratap Chakaravati, an Indian reporter for AFP, was another. His talcs -rife with errors of fact - seemed calculated to give foreign readers a false im-
 pression of the degree of chaos in Kabul and neglected the Islamic government's efforts to keep the situation under control.
     For this reason virtually every foreign guest coming to Kabul says dial he found Kabul more peaceful titan he had read in the foreign press.
     Sometimes a lack of sensitivity can create a bad impression. During a recent Friday sermon at a Kabul mosque, a well-known mawlavi criticized a foreign journalist whom he said he had seen "clinging like a monkey" to the turret of a speeding lank during early July's o*peration to drive shadowy armed groups from the city. The journalist may simply have been looking for the quickest way to get to a good story. But the mawlavi cited this as an example of foreigners who fan the flames of discord among Muslims.
     Another bad example has been set by an Arab journalist. Ahmad Zaidan, who writes for Al-Hayal, an Arabic paper, and also reports for the French national radio service, has access to a Hczb Islami (Hikmalyar) satellite telephone in Charasyab, south of Kabul, to file his reports.
     Zaidan has been busy reporting the war in Afghanistan from Peshawar for many years. He is known to be a sympathizer of Hczb Islami of Hikmalyar, but denies it.
     How could Zaidan claim to be an impartial reporter if he uses the communication facilities of a political party engaged in war with the government in Kabul? Zaidan's recent stories, which have appeared on Arabic papers,, arc strongly biased towards the views of Hezb. This revelation regarding his filing procedures explains the reason.
General Dostum is alive
      The rumor about the death of General Dostum and Babrak Karmal in a plane crash turned out to be disinformation.
       VOA and some Pakistani papers had reported, quoting Commander Haqqani, that Babrak and Dostum were travelling with some of their senior aides from Mazar to Kabul when their plane crashed near the capital.
       The news was immediately rejected by General Dostum. A group of journalists were invited to Jawzjan to see that the General was alive.
       Sources close to Dosium said the news was aimed at creating instability and chaos.
      Making use of the occasion, the foreign journalists asked Dostum about his view on transfer of power from Mujaddidi to Rabbani. He said this was the job of the Leadership Council and Jihadi Council to decide jointly and he would respect their decision. He said his main concern was securing the right of ethnic minorities and both Mujaddidi and Prof. Rabbani had promised to protect the rights of minorities when they visited Mazar.
      BBC quoted Dosium saying that Loya Jirgas (tradition assemblies of tribal elders) had not been taken any decisions in the past which had been useful to the nation.
      Pakistan has appointed Amir Usman as the ambassador of that ountry in Kabul. Although Pakistan id not cut its diplomatic tics with the; communist regime in Kabul, it rc-uccd contact with the regime to the ounsellor level. During the commu^ ist rule, Pakistani diplomats in Kabul, ahd j regime dijjlomais in Islamabad x were busy^^oceivmg irote^st letters from their host countries accusing each other of interfer-mg in each other’s internal affairs.
      The Deputy Foreign Minister of Egypt discussed relations of his coun try witlt:|iSp Afghan leaders. pVj'
      He met Prof. Mujaddidi, Prof. Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Masood. Participation of Egypt in reconstruction of Afghanistan was discussed by hb two skies. Egypt supported the Afghan Mujahideen and it was the irst country to send consignments of irihs and ammunition to them immediately; afterv the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.: ‘if!:!*
    If Floods ahd land slides have killed seven people and destroyed eight houses in Teshkan and Darayem areas of Badakhshan, Bakhtar News Agency reported. V$an||:;|||S|^
  3^ j^magi^i     ^              J
       A representative of Badakhshan province, Lutfullah Jahid, has said that the people of Badakhshan were suffering from shortages of food and
    • TheJhead of' the Leadership Council, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani met with the head of South Asia ritish Foreign
  situation in Afghanistan and bilateral
  British government for its support to the Mtij^ide^n and asked for partici
  Afghanistan.
       The British delegation had cohie to Kabaljo study the. possiLility of rc-opening that cOtintf^s embassy in the capital;
                                             AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page ©
turns down peace offer by Masood
     /The following is text of conversation between Commander Ahmad Shah Masood and Eng. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the leader of llezb Islami, which took place on Friday, April 23. over two-way radio. The purpose of the conversation was to persuade Hikmatyar not to attack Kabul and to join the political .discussions with the other Mujahideen leaders in Peshawar. The leaders were discussing formation of an interim Islamic government to take power from the regime in Kabul. Hikmatyar was not convinced by Masood's assurances and launched an abortive attack on Kabul on April 26}.
     Hikmatyar: Wc arc honest about what wc say.. If other parties promise not to try to grab power through conspiracies and collusion with the enemy and consider elections as the only means for forming governments, I guarantee that Hczb will not resort to armed action to impose a government of its own choice on the people. Everybody should realize that the Lime for reaching power through coups have passed. No one in Kabul can give power to anyone. If anyone in Kabul were able to pass on their power to others, they would be able to preserve power for themselves. They are not in a position to do that.
     Kabul sent a message to me yesterday that if the Mujahideen did not agree on a formula for the transfer of power by the end or today, they would transfer power to a new administration, and the Watan Party would be dissolved.
     I believe that without taking into confidence the people and without the Mujahideen’s consent, it would be impossible to rule Afghanistan.
     We should realize that the army, police, militias, Soviet Union and even Warsaw Pact supported Najib but he failed to rule Afghanistan. I feel that the chances for ruling Afghans without their consent and formation of governments through a coup has passed for ever.
     My sincere proposal is that we should agree to close the way for reaching power through coups and collusion with the enemy. Lei us create atmosphere of brotherhood and trust among ourselves. Wc should intensify our efforts to make Islam the ruler. Let us promise not to take arm against each other for the sake of reaching power and form a strong Islamic government. __________ - ________________________
 I assure you of Hezb's cooperation in this regard.
     Masood: If I am correct, you have raised the following three points:
     •      The existence of a conspiracy and a plan for a coup
     •      The formation of a transitional government
     • Elections
     On the subject of conspiracy I share your views that it is not a way for forming a government. A false propaganda has been launched against us and, naturally, these false stories might have reached you. I informed the leaders in Peshawar that the foreign minister of the regime was ready to accept an Islamic government formed by the Mujahideen. You might have not been informed about it.
      I want to tell you that after the fall of Charikar and Bagram, the Kabul rc-
     •     Joint defense of Kabul in case it is attacked by other Mujahideen groups.
     •     If a transitional government is created based on the UN formula, the combined forces of the Supervisory Council, Rashid Dostum and ihc regime would provide security for ihc Kabul-Hairatan road. What is the truth?
     Masood: As I said earlier, Wakil had come with a proposal simi-at to a transitional government. I rejected the idea and told him that it"was not acceptable to the Mujahideen. During his second visit, he said that he and his colleagues were ready to accept the Mujahideen government. I informed the three leaders that 1 mentioned earlier and also MawIaWi Haqqani. I told them that the other side had accepted Mujahideen government and you should discuss the issue and reach an
 gime was destabilized. The Kabul rul- ^agreement.
 ers requested talks and I agreed to meet with Abdul Wakil. He came with two proposals: one from his friends and another from himself. His friends' proposal was formation of a coalition government and Wakil's view was that lime for a coalition government had passed and it was better to hand over power to the Mujahideen. 1 told him in clear terms that the Afghan people and the Mujahideen cannot accept less than a Mujahideen government. 1 encouraged him to persuade his friends to accept a government formed by the Mujahideen. When he returned the next day, he said they were ready to accept the Mujahideen government.
      After receiving this message, I contacted Prof. Rabbani, Prof. Sayyaf and Prof Mujaddidi through radio and told them about the decision of the Kabul regime. I told them to agree on formation of a government to take power in Kabul. This is the key point that the oihcr side has accepted the Mujahideen government. There is no plan of coup or grabbing power through military action.
      Hikmatyar: I have learned from the people you had a meeting with, and from General Raft, who came to meet me yesterday, that the Kabul regime had proposed four points:
      •     The formation of a coalition government.
      •     Abstention from launching- attacks on the security belts around Kabul.
 Hikmatyar: Abdur Rahim Hatif (the vice president of the regime) also announced that the regime was ready to transfer power to a Mujahideen govern ment. This decision has been taken by regime because pressure on Kabul has increased; activities of the Mujahideen around Kabul has escalated and the number ^of Mujahideen around Kabul has increased.- Your and other parlies’ rejection of a coalition government forced them to abandon the idea of formation of a coalition government and agree wilh the Mujahideen government.
     Masood: I do not insist those arc the factors that forced them to accept the Mujahideen government. God will reward those who have played an effective role. They have accepted formation of the Mujahideen government. Halil also announced this on radio and TV.
     Since they have accepted formation of an Islamic government and 1 have announced that I will not enter Kabul by force, do you still feel the need for launching attack on Kabul?
     Hikmatyar: Yes, I think, we have no other choice. There are many reasons: Firstly, there is no Islamic government in Kabul yet. Secondly, they want to put some conditions on the formation of government. Thirdly, there arc a large number of forces stationed in Kabul which they should not -be Forces of General Momcn are stationed on the southern front.
     Despite your rejection of the re gime’s proposal, your forces have gone
        _                                               AFGHANews   Vol 8,  No 13, July 1, 1992, page O
   to Kabul. If you arc nol in favor of mil- leaders lhal the problem was solved, toriously while chaining Allah-o-Akbar ilary action, you should not have sent Prof. Rabbani had told.some of my col- (God is Great), your forces to some of these arcas.Thc leagues (hat a Jami’at government was   You know  that militias arc in con-
   forces stationed in Khwaja Rawash air- in power in Kabul.                trol of Kabul airport. You arc present
   port, in Kabul garrison, in posts north Masood: I know nothing about the there but the control is in their hands, of Kabul and posts towards Logar arc meeting you have mentioned. You can In such circumstances I feel the need supporters of Babrak Karmal and have ask Prof. Sayyaf and Prof. Mujaddidi that the Mujahideen should enter Kabul been deployed to impose his about what I told you. I told those lead- by force. But, our purpose is nol to conditions.             . „          ers about my talks with Wakil. I in- form Hc/.b government in Kabul. Our
       If the Mujahideen government is formed them about the regime decision aim is that the power should be irans-acccplcd today, militia forces arc evac- that it was prepared to transfer power to ferred to a unanimously agreed govem-uated from Kabul and Mujahideen the Mujahideen. I did not ask for any ment or to a council of commanders government has taken charge of gov- position for myself, or a special conccs- from around Kabul, emment in Kabul, we do not see a need sion for Jami’at. Any sensible person Masood: The entry of armed .for launching attack on Kabul.      knows that different parties have taken Mujahideen into Kabul after the rc-
       Masood: I do not deny that some part in Jehad and they have a right to gime’s announcement that it was ready . of my forces have been deployed in participate in decisions concerning the to accept Mujahideen government is some areas of Kabul. Our forces arc future of their country.                not a great honor and achievement. It
   stationed inr Khwaja Rawash airport. If Hikmatyar:     Brother Masood! wilt ercate a chaotic situation in Kabul,
   the situation changes we will have to Kabul is still controlled by Nabi Azimi Why do not you form your government lakcfunhcr action.                   and it is not in the hands of the and then enter Kabul while chanting
       When I informed the leaders that Mujahideen. As long as these-people Allah-o-Akbar. The people of Kabul the regime was ready to accept the are in control, there is no reason for the will greet you as victors.
   Mujahideen government and 1 did hot Mujahideen to stop fighting and you 'Hikmatyar: You have to talk to announce formation of a government, I should not be opposed to the Professor Rabbani about it. Tell him - was not planning a conspiracy. I left Mujahideen operations against them. not; to seek concessions for Jami'at. If everything to you, the leaders, and A Jami'at government has not been Prof^. Rabbani agrees to the formation waited for your decision. Despite all formed in Kabul yet. Every decision of anintcrim government which is ac-this, operations against Kabul started made in Kabul should be done with the cepjtabte: to all Mujahideen; -power is from four directions. When I saw that consent of other Mujahideen parties, transferred to this government, and the situation in Kabul was dctcriorat- We have no objection to a Jami’at gov- elections are held after six months, the ing and that it was taking such a course -eminent. We feel obliged to take arms, problem will be solved and there will that correcting it would have been im- for the conquest vpf Kabul and forma- be no heed for attack on Kabul, possible, I was forced to send some of tionbfaMujah^ government and Masood: Is Prof. Rabbani opposed my forces.                              you; should not Consider an attack on to an interim government?
       1 am not asking for special conccs- Kabul (io be) against yourself. The tea- . jHikmatyar: He might agree in sions for Jami'at and the Supervisory son forattack will disappear whenpow- wordsbiht in reality the government has Council. The government has an-^_ brisi^                 Mujahideen.     nertbeenforrned.
   nounccd its readiness to accept the : Masood: tdo not claim that the ^Masood: I assure you if Prof. Mujahideen's government. They have government is in the hands of Jami'at. Rabbani docs not accept formation of placed no conditions'. If they do, you It is still in'the .hand of Watan Parly, an. interim government, we will put and 1 will take jpint action against But 1 want to repeal this fact: the re- pressure on him so that a government lhCfrii until they accept; all the condi- gimewas ready to transfer, power to the acceptable ip all Mujahideen is formed, tibps :of the Mujahideen, If they are Mujahideen unconditionally. As long Hikmatyar: When? We do not ready to accept all conditions of the as they express their readiness to trans- have a lot of time. Perhaps an an-Miijahideen, what isr the ; need for fer power lo the Mujahideen, is there nouncbncbi be made in Kabul this eve-taunphing an attack on Kabul?        any need for aimed action for taking ning and in that ease we have to be pre-
       Hikmatyar: In la meeting in power in Kabul? Is there need to take pared for it. We have proposed a plan : Pakistan after the recent developments power by force from people who have and. pur plan is not. accepted, we will in Kabul, Prof. Rabbainf said that the ; surrendered? The problein is between begin: pur military operation against prpbkcm was solved tand an Islamic ^ leaders, that you cannot agree K^l, If this not done today, perhaps council had been forn^ in Kabul. He with each otiier. 'Form; a government we wiji not have time tomorrow, told the leaders that they were wasting and if the rulers ^ Kabul did not accept Masood: What should be done their time about formation of an inter- it, we will launch joint attacks against today?
   im government and there was no need them.                                     Hikihatyar: Agreement on forma-
   for talks about it After two hours, it Hikmatyar: Jami'at can adopt tion of an interim government There became known that Nabi Azimi and such a policy and say that operation on are many proposals on the table. If they his friends had taken -power in Kabul. Kabul is not correct and other agree on any of these proposals we sup-^ Prof. Rabbani spoke in such a way as Mujahideen should not enter into port it.
   if Jami’at government was formed in Kabul. But, as an independent party, Masood: That is good. If Jami'at Kabul. From your talks, I feel that you we can choose another policy. We pre- wanted to form its own government in consider an attack on Kabul as an at- fer to enter into Kabul victoriously. Our Kabul (here was no need to wait so lack oh yourself. Instead of reaching an Mujahideen's entry into Kabul docs not long and inform the leaders about the agreement with Nabi Azimi,; we should mean bloodshed. We do not want histo- details of developments. Wailing and have reached an agreement among our- ry to record that the Mujahideen could trying to convince others is the best -       Individual decisions .and ignore not liberated Kabul and their^issue was way forformation of an interim governing     have         dangerous consc- solved through die UN. I want that his- ment. I am sure that Prof Rabbani has
   Qtieriefcs. What do you think if the'■                           should rccord ihai the Mujahideen ' _ /o\
   leader of a party comes and tells other ethered Kabul from four directions vie-        ^ 0          'W
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 13, July 1, 1992, page ©
Hikmatyar rejects Masood's peace offer
na misgivings aboirt this.
     Hikmatyar: I want to say that honesty and sincerity are needed. Let us be honest, put aside desire for personal achievements and a desirable share! If the nation entrusts us with power, wc should scrvc_them, and if it rejects us, wc should not try to grab power through immoral means.
     Masood: I agree with the formation of a pure Islamic and transitional government. The most suitable way to form a permanent government is holding of elections. As you .said, the nation will choose their leader. We arc not trying to get special concession for Jami'al and, do not want to. highlight what wc have done. It is important that you, the leaders; should agree on an interim government for six months or one year ; and then elections should be held. Do you still insist that military operation be launch against Kabul?
     Hikmatyar: If an agreement is reached in Peshawar and power is transferred to this government, we do not feci the need for attack. If these things arc not done, wc will do what is good for our country.
     Masood: Thank.you. If we had something in mind, we would have implemented it the first days. We are waiting for the leaders to agree on an interim government so that the way for holding elections is eledr. I am strongly in favor of holding elections because it solves mosi of the problems.
     Hikmatyar: An agreement today will prevent unwanted incidents to hap- . pen. I do not have anything further to say. If you have nothing else to. say, I say Goodbye.
     Masood: I have things to say. You have threatened to attack. Kabul on Sunday. I want to state clearly that your attack will result in confrontation between the Mujahideen. The entry of one faction will prompt entry of other Mujahideen groups into Kabul. The chaotic situation created by forced entry will lead to clashes between the Mujahideen.
     I request you to cancel the attack;. go to Peshawar; sit with the leaders and solve the issue through talks. Time spent on this work is not wasted. I want your assurance that there will be no attack on Kabul on Sunday. I assure you from our side that we will not take any unilateral action.
     Hikmatyar: When the threat was made, necessary directions were given ■ to all fronts. If a new situation has not been created to convince individual Mujahideen that the need for an operation docs not exist anymore, we will
| From page (7) ____________________j
not be able to postpone or hasten the attack. 1 am sure that no infighting will take place. No clashes have taken place between Mujahideen in other pans of Afghanistan and will not lake place in Kabul. If we fight, wc will fight against KHAD, militias and forces serving communists. 1 am not attacking Panjshir.
    Masood: Wc may talk differently but cannot ignore Lhc realities. I say that clashes wilt take place and hundreds of Muslims will die. It is a good idea to solve this problem through talks and noL through military means.
   ' Hikmatyar: I have said what I wanted to say.
    ,Masood: This means that you will launch an attack on Sunday and I should prepare myself!
    Hikmatyar: Prepare for what?
    Masood: Prepare to defend the people of Kabul, the women of Kabul, elders and minors of Kabul. Prepare to defend this oppressed people who seek refuge to God. I am obliged to defend these people against any attack.
    Hikmatyar: It is strange that you say you arc preparing to defend the people of Kabul. Our decision has not changed. If power is not transferred from this criminal band in Kabul to the government formed by the Mujahideen or council of commanders from around Kabul, I have to carry out my threat.
    Masood: You proposed several points and I agreed with them. Wc agreed on pure Islamic interim government and holding of elections. Despite all these, you have fixed a deadline for attack. After agreement on' major points, there is nor need for attack. Prof. Rabbani has expressed his support for these points. Leaders arc meeting in Peshawar to reach an agreement I do not see the need for launching attack on Kabul on Sunday.
    Hikmatyar: Hezb has not fixed a deadline for an attack on Charikar. It has fixed the deadline for attack on Kabul which is still ruled by criminal elements. Your agreement through wireless is not enough. Furthermore you cannot represent Jami'al. Hczb and Jami’at should agree on formation of an administration and all Mujahideep forces accept thaL
    Masood: I can assure you pn behalf of all Jami'at that we are in favor of formation of an interim government which is not limited to Hczb and Jami'at. Others have also taken pan in Jehad and the government should be acceptable to them. Why do not you go
 and sit down with Ustaz (Rabbani) and find a solution together?
     Hikmatyar: You can come and discuss the problem among us. Ustaz cannot decide by himself.
     Masood: Ustaz is the leader. I announce that any decision made by Ustaz will be acceptable to me.
     Hikmatyar: There is no problem from our side. Our representative participates in the talks-with full authority.
     Masood: Wc arc-wailing.for you, the leaders, to decide.
     Hikmatyar: I will consult the commanders around Kabul. I have one suggestion for you: if you want to fight, do not stand by the side of Azimi, Rashid Dostum and General Momen. If fighting starts, come and stand beside your Mujahideen brothers and we will provide security for the people of Kabul together. Instead of cooperation with your Mujahideen to rule Parwan and Bagram jointly, you cooperate with Momen and militiamen. We should try to reach an agreement today and tomorrow. I consult my brothers and see what can I do.
     Masood: 1 have learned these ways, from my ciders, those who stood by General Tanai. The situation is not the way you described it. You should enquire about the situation from your commanders. Two months ago, I sent some Arab brothers to them, inviting them to take part in joint military action. They returned disappointed and reported that your commander were not ready to cooperate.- -
     Your commanders asked for Lhc delegation to go thcre. Your commanders proposed a 22 item agenda concerning secondary issues. There was no mention of coordinated action against the regime.
      After liberation of Bagram, I sent-another delegation to your commanders proposing that advance towards Kabul be planned jointly. They said they will answer after consultation with you. Today is the third day for which I have waited for their answer.
     Hikmatyar: I was aware of your contact with the brothers, and the message you had sent through Prof. Rabbani reached me. I told Prof. Rabbani that Jami'al and Hezb must first solve all problems and then direct their commanders to form joint forces. How could wc direct the commanders in one area, to form joint forces?
     About Tanai, I should say the difference is between sky and earth. Wc did not fight under his command. He defected to the Mujahideen and he was given protection.
                Rockets kill 100 people in Kabul
     Over one hundred people were killed and at least 300 were injured when Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar) fired rqckets into the city of Kabul on ‘July 4. The attack took place two days before Abdul Saboor Farid arrived in the capital to began work as the First prime minister of the Islamic Government of Afghanistan.
     The tragic rocket attack started at noon and lasted for six hours. The rockets hit a bus station and some residential areas in poorer parts of the city, in addition to some military targets. One rocket landed in the garden of the presidential palace, killing a Mujahid from Logar Province.
     The forces loyal to the government responded to the attack. Hezb claimed that Division No. 53 started Firing on its bases. South of Kabul, killing eleven people in the Bini Hisar area.
     Government authorities strongly condemned the attack and held Hezb Islami responsible for the killing of innocent people.
     Prof. Rabbani, head of the Islamic State, visited the 400-bed hospital to enquire about the condition of those wounded in the attack. He announced giving Afs.100,000 to the families of those killed and 50,000 to the wounded.
     The attack disrupted a session of Leadership Council in which Eng. Hikmatyar was expected to attend, and delayed the arrival of Abdul Saboor Farid for one day.
     The press officers of Hezb blamed the government forces for the start nf the attack to prevent Farid from assuming office. But the Islamic government has evidence that Hezb was preparing for a heavy weapon attack.
     Even if one accepts as valid 4he accusation of Hezb that govemment forces started the attack, it cannot justify bombarding residential areas several kilometers away from the front line.
Hezb joins in government
 Abdul Saboor Farid, the command- raising controversial issues.
 er of Hezb Islami in Kapisa, assumed office as the Prime Minister of the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan on July 6.
      He reached the capital in a large convoy of trucks and cars carrying -about 3,000 of his armed supporters.
      He was welcomed outside the city by three cabinet ministers and a large number of Hezb supporters,
      Farid’s arrival gave hope to the people in Kabul that rocket attacks by Hezb on the city would end. Two days before his arrival, Hezb rockets fired into market -and residential areas killed 100 people and wounded 300 more.
      The leaders had agreed to give the prime minister's post to a representative of Hezb. Gulbuddin Hikmatyar, the Hezb Islami leader, refused to enter the political process, and resorted to violence to topple the Islamic government.
      Hezb demanded withdrawal of forces of the 53rd Division, headed by General Dostum, and the 80th Divsion of Sayyed Mansoor Nadiri, and that the army be purged of former regime officers as a precondition for participating in the government. After two months, Hezb decided to join the government without these conditions unmet
      About 300 of Farid's armed men were assigned to protect the Prime Minister's compound. The rest of his 3000 armed men are lodged in a mili-Tary camp outside the city.
      Farid will chose some new ministers for his cabinet with the consultation of the Leadership Council. Some key ministerial posts have been allocated to different parties by the Peshawar agreement. Prof. Mujaddidi had also appointed some caretaker ministers to run the government.
      Prime Minister Farid addressed the nation on TV and radio to inform them of his plans. He emphasized unity among Mujahideen forces, and avoided
     Farid was bom 42 years ago in the village of Chashma-i-Allah Dad in Kohistan District, Kapisa Province. His father Abdul Shokoor was a teacher, from an important Tajik family.
     Farid studied primary school in Kohistan, secondary school ~ in Jabulseraj and Teacher Training School in Kabul. He was a teacher in Rukha High School, Panjshir, when the com munist coup of 1978 took place.
     Since he was a known member of the Islamic Movement, he left his job and migrated to Iran. He served as a Hezb representative in an Iranian city before returning to Pakistan in 1979. He was sent to Kapisa where he the laid the foundation of an armed struggle in Kohistan. In 1983, he was wounded in fighting against the Soviets and was evacuated and treated in Pakistan. In 1987, he was appointed the chief administrator (Amir) ofHezb in Kapisa and Parwan provinces.
      Farid has established schools and hospitals in his home base, Kohistan He got involved in infighting with other Mujahideen groups, especially Jami’at, at the start of Jehad, but later tried to avoid such clashes. He got con trol of Gulbahar Textile Mills as a result of a secret deal with the Kabul re gime in 1987, but failed to keep the factory running.
      Farid has a good reputation among the people. He has emerged as a good politician, but failed to mature .into a capable military commander.
      The first issue raised by Farid's arrival was the limits of the power of the President and the Prime Minister . There was no agreement between the parties on this issue. In order to address this, the Leadership Council formed a committee comprising all Mujahideen parties to draft a transitional constitution, which is to be presented to the Council soon.
 xiui. iviujauuiui icsuneu in conunuea ciasnes Between Hezb torces and the forces of the Defense Ministry, leaving hundreds of people dead or wounded. Continued fighting was harmful to the cause of Jehad from which both Hezb and the government suffered.
     Two days before the arrival of Abdul Saboor Farid to assume his post as the first Prime Minister of the Islamic government, rocket attacks on Kabul killed about 100 people and wounded 300 more.
     Hezb described the attack as a retaliatory move in self defense, but the targets hit were residential areas, kilometers away from front line. The attack was an embarrassing development for Farid, who wanted to join the government to serve the people. Let us hope that Prime Minister Farid will be able to put an end to such indiscriminate attacks and is able to persuade his party to abandon the policy of use of force for achieving political aims.
     While Farid has joined the government, Mr. Hikmatyar, the leader of Hezb, has decided "to stay outside Kabul. This is a source of worry to people of Afghanistan who want to see all the Mujahideen leaders engaged in a meaningful political process so that peace returns to the country and the Islamic system is consolidated.
     With Farid’s entry, the two-month long propaganda campaign against the Islamic government has lost its credibility. Hezb joined the government without the introduction of any major change in the composition of the government upon which it had earlier insisted.
     The Islamic government has many shortcomings which need to be corrected, but confrontational policies will do no good. These shortcomings require the participation of all Mujahideen in the government; only their united action can guarantee introduction of the necessary changes. Therefore it would be logical for the leader of Hezb to join the other Mujahideen leaders and work to form a representative government through elections.
     The Hezb leader insistence on remainin outside Kabul will not remove the shadow of war hanging over the people. This will give a chance for both armed groups along the roads leading to Kabul and criminal elements within the city to create law and order problem along the highways and in the capital.
     The events of the past two months showed that propaganda against the Islamic Government was not able to stop refugees from returning home and foreign countries from recognizing the government It must have become clear that there is no possibility of taking power through military action.
     If a conciliatory policy had been adopted from the beginning, the security situation in Kabul would have been better^nd life would have been easier for its population.                                                        -
     The step taken by Farid is a good start but there is a need for Hezb’s full commitment to the political process.
     Full participation of Hezb and the inclusion of Hezb Wahdat in the government will improve the security situation, which is the main concern of die people.
     The Islamic government has a difficult agenda to deal with. It has to provide security for the people of Afghanistan and provide them with the necessary services. Winter is coming and the capital needs ample supplies of food and fuel for several million of its people. Major parts of funds to provide food, fuel and medicine must come from donation by friendly countries and the international organizations. The outside world will help only if roads are safe and security in Kabul and in the countryside has improved.
 tne remains ot Mohammad Sardar, Mohammad Gulzareen and Mohammad Amir, Abdul said.
     They were religious scholars. Like perhaps hundreds of thousands of other. Afghans, they vanished without a trace following the 1978 revolution.
     Their only crime, Abdul says, was opposing the oppression and terror of Moscow's handpicked dictators. The last strongman, Najibullah, was toppled in April by Mujahideen now running the government.
     "I came here to mourn my uncles. Other people are coming too, hoping to find some sign of what happened to our families," said the 29-year-old Abdullah, who fought with the Mujahideen against communist rule in Afghanistan.
     From -20,000 to 35,000 people in Kabul alone were arrested by the feared KGB-style secret police and never were seen again, said intelligence officials of the new Islamic government's defence ministry. Human rights activists, however, consider that a conservative figure.
     Afghans talked in whispers for years about the "polygon", the rock-strewn plain at the foot of the jagged mountains 25 km east of Kabul. Many of those who disappeared are believed to be buried in mass graves on the plain.
     A senior commander of Defence Minister Ahmad Shah Masood who identified himself only as Mohammad Es’haq recently led an expedition of Mujahideen to the area.
     Armed with a small shovel, the brigade picked a spot and started to dig beneath the U-shaped tank emplacements. About half a meter below the surface they found a skeleton. They continued diggggg, unearthing a second, then a third and fourth.
     [ This Associated Press article was published in Khaleej Times on June 21]
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page
     Dear Brother Engineer Es’haq, As-salaamu Alaikum.
     On the occasion of the Islamic victory in Afghanistan, we organized a celebration here. One of your young men, Mohammad Hashem, came to speak. The advertisement of the program, which was published in the local paper, is enclosed with this. (It was all organized by my daughter Nadrat).
     I sent a check for $100 to Kabul to you, c/o Ahmad Shah Masood. I did not have an address, but we wanted to be the first to contribute for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. (I hope it reached you).
     I wonder if you know that Jamaat Islami of Pakistan's weekly magazine TAKBEER has been carrying on a very dirty campaign against Commander Masood and Prof. Rabbani. Week after weeks, they have been publishing stories against the victory in Kabul and have been accepting Eng. Hikmatyar's viewpoint in toto. (It is in Urdu).
     Let us know the latest situation send us photos of Commander Masood in Kabul.
     You must be even more busy now, but please don't forget the Muslim community here. We need your inspiration and the facts about the new Afghanistan.
     Kaukab Siddique Baltimore - USA
     Dear Mohammad Es'haq Enclosed is a copy of my most recent paper on Afghanistan. I hope you find it useful.
     Please consider stopping by the Heritage Foundation the next time you are in Washington. We greatly enjoyed your last talk here and we would like to. host another luncheon talk for you or any of your associates, the next time they visit Washington.
     James Phillips Deputy Director of Foreign Policy and Defense The Heritage Foundation.
     Dear Editor:
     I congratulate you on the occasion of the Mujahideen's victory, and pray for the success of the Islamic government.
     I offer my-thanks to you that in the past fourteen years of Holy Jehad you have kept Afghans in exile, and the rest of the world, informed about the situa-
 tion in Afghanistan.
     We Afghans living in British Columbia province in Canada have been enjoying reading your paper, AFGHANews. I wish your further success in publishing the paper.
     Sincerely
     Eng. Abdul Karim Safi
     Head of Afghan Association of
     British Colombia - Canada
     Dear Mohammad Es’haq:
     I was very happy to receive nos. 10 and 11 of AFGHANews and to read about your return to Kabul. What a change from our first meeting in Faqirabad eight years ago when you told us, "A whole nation is dying. People should know." It reminds me of a Sura of Holy Quran that you once quoted in one of your extracts from the "Diary of Jehad." An old man was speaking at the funeral of his son, who had been martyred. He said; "Don not say that those who have died in the path of God are dead. They are living, but you perceive it not."
     I do not know when you will receive this letter, but I hope it will not take too long. I wanted to let you know that I am planning to come to Kabul for a short visit. I will arrive on August 4 and leave on August 22.1 have sent a letter to Mr. Saljuqi to inform the foreign ministry. I am hoping to stay at either the UN Guest House or the German Club. I look forward to seeing you there. I also hope to meet Commander Masood and to visit Panjshir. I would be grateful for any help you can give. If there is time, I • would also like to travel to Logar, perhaps with the help of Dr. Fazlullah.
     The purpose of my visit is to carry M>ut my own research. I hope to leam more about the new government and its relations to foreign powers and what you call the "patchwork of different Mujahideen groups", around the country. By the way, it seems to me that your comments are much more frank now that you are no longer in exile in a foreign country. I look forward to hearing more openly your thoughts on various questions.
     Barnett R. Rubin
     Associate Professor of Political Science Columbia University
      I’.li
, the/Afnir
WUatojtY°messsage tat the
members of       wipg pf Jaraaaf
took part in ^^adSon in imppofc
•pf
.. ~  rr_I.         j
 V.'VFourhuadtfed televislon'se^loot^
 Allah, Mohammad is the Prophet of The'.
                                                                                                                * o£jgR
 v;                    ■■     ■ _
- — -   -  - - AFGHANews Vol8,
Afghan prisoners found in Tashkent
     It has been revealed that some of gotten the name of his father. He was the political prisoners arrested during shown on TV so that his relatives could the communist regime were kept in the pick him up.
 former Soviet Union.                         The Russian parliament has passed
     A member of the Mujaddidi family a bill asking the government to present told the BBC in Islamabad that he has a resolution to the UN General received letters from Ibrahim Assembly asking for the release of all Mujaddidi and eight of his sons inform- Soviet prisoners, ing him that they are alive and in Rutskoi, .the Vice President of Uzbakistan. They were arrested during Russia and an Afghan veteran, is the the time of Taraki and their family head of the committee seeking the rethought that they were dead. Prof,            of Soviet POWs.
 Mujaddidi wanted to send a delegation Since 1989, the Mujahideen have from Kabul to Uzbakistan to investi- released 11 POWs. One of them was gate the report, but Uzbakistan's gov- released by Defense Minister Ahmad eminent did not respond.                  Shah Masood after the. fall of the Kabul
     Nawaz Sharif, the prime minister regime, of Pakistan,- raised the issue with           'The United States is helping
 President Karimov during his recent Russia and other former Soviet repub-visit to Uzbakistan. Karimov admitted Ucs to get information about their pris-that there were some Afghan political oners of war held by the Mujahideen in prisoners in Uzbakistan but he did not return for Russian help to find know whether members of Mujaddidi’s American POWs missing since the family were there or not                  Vietnam war.
     If the claim turns out to be true, it American officials visiting Kabul confirms the allegation by Afghans that, recently stopped in Moscow and Kiev some political prisoners were trans- 0n their way home to deliver photo-feried and kbpt in the former Soviet graphs of prisoners and other informa-Union.                                    tion about them.
     The transfer took place at a time Washington has been helping the when the republics in Central Asia had Afghan interim leadership find about little control over their affairs. The cen- 500 children taken to the Soviet Union tral government and KGB were the true since 1980. Moscow has said the chil-riilers of the country.                   dren were orphans. Afghans say they
     This revelation has given hope to have been taken away, often against many Afghan families whose members toe wishes of their families, to be are missing. This will have an affect indoctrinated, on the fate of Soviet POWs caught by Russian President Boris Yeltsin the Mujahideen. In order to get the re- had asked a US Senate Committee dur-lease of their prisoners, Russia and ing his visit to Washington in June for other CIS countries should provide full help to resolve the issue of Soviet information about Afghan POWs and POWs in Afghanistan. Yeltsin prom-children taken for indoctrination.        ised to help tracking of American
     One of these children, who re- missing soldiers during toe Vietnam turned from Russia after 8 years to war. it is said that some of these prison-Kabul some weeks ago, did not know ers were transferred to camps inside the'-toe address of his family and had for-. Soviet Union.
 Bush asked to open Kabul mission
     Ten members of the US congress have asked President Bush to extend formal diplomatic recognition to the Islamic government in Afghanistan and open the US embassy in KabuL.
     In a letter written by the members of the Afghan Task Force of the congress, they have said Afghan people contributed to the downfall of communism and this contribution should be appreciated.
     The failure of American government to open its embassy in Kabul could give an opening to extremists and delay the return of peace in Afghanistan, iheletter said .
     The letter said the US government justified thedelay in opening its embassy on security grounds, while mbxe than 30 Countries have recognized thenew government.
     The congressmen said that the US government has given billions of dollars of aid to Afghans andif itisnotfollowedup on, after the victory of the Mujahideen, it would be disasierous.
     They asked secretary of state James Baker to give importance to US relations with Afghanistan.
     It worth mentioning that congressional pressure was the key factor behind the Reagan Adnunisiralion’s decisiomo staitgivingsubstantialaidiotheMujahideen.
     The UN has estimated that more than one million Afghan refugees will return to Afghanistan from Iran and Pakistan by the end of the current year. The figure is much higher than the earlier estimates of the world body.
     The UN is facing a shortage of funds to pay for the returning refugees. For each refugee family, the UN pays $250 and gives. 300 kilograms of wheat. Each family pays about $125 for a truck to take its belongings to Jalalabad, the nearest area of Afghanistan to Pakistan. Transportation costs to the north of Afghanistan are several times higher.
     Iran takes refugees, to its border free and gives 50 kilograms of wheat to each individual refugee.
     The UN Secretary-General has asked the international community to provide $180 million for its repatriation program. So far, the response to the appeal has not been positive. Only $20 million has been promised to toe fund, the bulk of which is provided by toe British Government
     The number of refugees returning from Pakistan has increased considerably. Recently the weekly average of people crossing the border into Afghanistan was 70,000.
     The returning refugees face tremendous problems at home. They face the danger of land mines near their villages, do not have funds to rebuild their houses and are facing shortages of food.
     Wood for construction of roofs, doors and windows are very expensive. Ironically, Russia, the legal inheritor of the former Soviet Union, which was responsible for the destruction of Afghanistan, has provided no funds for the.reconstruction of this country. Cash might be problem for Russia, but that country has vast amount of timber which might prove useful for the rebuilding of houses.
     The British Government has announced a donation of $14 million to assist Afghan refugees return to their country from Iran and Pakistan.
     Britain's minister for overseas development said the funds will be given to the UNHCR, ICRC and Afghanaid, a British relief organization, to be spent on the refugees.
AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page @
war damage
    An Afghan delegation participating in the Earth Summit, organized by the UN, asked the international community to help Afghans to deal with the environmental issues created by the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
    The Earth Summit opened in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at the beginning of June, and was attended by heads of states and governments of member nations.
    Highlighting the environmental problems in Afghanistan, the head of Afghan delegation, Jaffil Shams, said that deforestation, the increased population in the cities, destruction of irriga-
 tion systems, and land mines were the major issues facing Afghanistan.
     He said forests were heavily cut down during the war or were set on fire during military operations; this has damaged (he soil and water sources. He stressed the need for alternative sources of fuel to slow down the pace of deforestation. The domestic use of natural gas can reduce the need for cutting trees.
     He also asked member states to help Afghanistan to clear more than 10 million mines planted by Soviet occupation forces. Mines pose a great danger to people and animals and hinder efforts for reconstruction and the rehabilitation of refugees.
    A delegation of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, headed by Mohammad Siddique Saljoqi, the minister of state for foreign affairs, took part in the conference of foreign ministers of Islamic countries in Istanbul, Turkey, to discuss the situation in the newly independent country of Bosnia.
    The two-day conference began on June 16. This was the first time that a delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan took part in such a meeting. The Interim Islamic Government, based in Peshawar, was a member of OIC. OlG expelled the Kabul regime from its membership after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. Although the Afghan seat remained vacant dll 1989, the Mujahideen were allowed to attend those sessions which discussed the situation in Afghanistan.
    The conference expressed support for Muslims in Bosnia, who are facing a war launched by the Serbian-dominated Yugoslavia army and Serbian militia.
    Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia, has been cut off from the outside world by Serbs for the past three months, and more than 300,000 of its people are facing shortages of essential commodities.
    So far, an estimated 12,000 people have been killed in different parts of Yugoslavia^ and the Serbs still refuse to recognize the breakaway republics.
    OIC has recommended that if UN
 sanctions fail to end the war,. the Security Council should authorize the use of force against the Serbian forces.
     The occasion was an opportunity for the Afghan delegation to inform the conference about situation in Afghanistan and asked the' member states to provide essential commodities to Afghans and help the Islamic government in its reconstruction efforts.
     Saljoqi met with the prime minster of Turkey and foreign ministers of Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and representatives from other Islamic countries.
     The delegation of the Islamic State of Afghanistan was warmly received by the conference.
 Bakhter attends Tehran moot
     The conference of non-aligned countries' news, agencies, held in Teheran some time ago, has recommanded that member states help Afghanistan to restructure the Bakhtar News Agency. This was the first time that a representative of the Afghan government had taken part in this conference.
     The conferees discussed ways and means of cooperation between member states in the exchange of information. There is a strong feeling among developing countries that Western news agencies do not give proper coverage to the positive developments there.
     Bakhter is a state-conrolled news agency under the Ministry of Information of the Islamic government.
 BBC appoints new reporter in Kabul
    Suzy Price is the new BBC correspondent in Kabul. She succeeds Chris Bowers, who will be based in Tashkent to cover Central Asia.
    Price joined the BBC World Service newsroom as a sub-editor in November 1990. For the past six months, she has been working in' World Service Television News as an assistant producer.
    Before joining the BBC, Suzy worked as a reporter and Arts Editor with the Hull Daily Mail, for The Times of London and as a Press Association parliamentary reporter at Westminster.
    Price was bom in London. She has a BA in English and related literature from York University, and a journalism diploma from City University.
 Three UN de-miners die after Kabul blast
    Three UN . deminers, one Afghan and two Britons, were fa-: tally injured in an explosion during demining operations near Karezemir a few kilometers north of Kabul on July 8.
    They were detonating mines with a tank equipped with a heavy roller. Sources in the Halo Trust, -the UN-funded NGO carrying out the project, said that one mine which the tank detonated appeared to have been connected to another mine or a bomb buried nearby. The second explosive device blew up under the fuel tank, blasting flaming diesel through the vehicle and burning all three deminers badly.
    The tank driver, an Afghan, died of his injuries at the ICRC hospital later the same day. The two Britons were evacuated by air the following morning to the U.K., where they died of their injuries a few days later.
    The tragedy occurred during the UN's first Kabul-area demining project. Experts have estimated that the operation will last ten years throughout Afghanistan.
                         AFGHANews Vol 8, No 14, July 15,1992, page ©
President Rabbani outlines program of Islamic State
     Prof. Rabbani, the president of the Islamic Slate of Afghanistan, has said that providing security-and maintaining of law and order are the main points of his agenda.
     Speaking on TV and radio after the transfer of power, he said forming a unified army from the ranks of Mujahideen and professional officers was a key to achieving stability. He also announced the dissolution of all paramilitary forces formed by the previous regime.
     The Islamic government, he stated, would observe the rights of all Afghan nationalities,, particularly with regard to the army's ranks and within other state organs.
     The Islamic State, continued the president, would take necessary steps to make sure that the people - and especially Kabul residents — are safe from insecurity and anarchy; and that every individual's life, properly, honor and dignity are safeguarded. He added that the plan for providing security in Kabul has been prepared and will be announced soon.
     Although the general amnesty remains in force, said the president, adventurists who continue to commit sabotage and create disorder must be punished.
     He said that protecting the gains of Jehad, propagating the message of Islam, implementing Islam in all dimensions of the society's life, consolidating the Islamic State and the preservation of national unity were his government’s primary responsibilities.
     Respect for human dignity and the people's natural rights were among the pillars of his domestic policy, he continued, and added that the people’s participation in electing the national leadership was the most basic element of the Islamic political system.
     He said the Islamic State would try earnestly to increase the supply of basic commodities in the market, prevent hoarding, and control prices of goods.
     Stressing the need for reconstruction, Prof. Rabbani asked the people to take keen interest in rebuilding Afghanistan, and called on friendly countries to give all possible support towards achieving this.
     There is, he added, a need to rebuild our towns and villages on modem lines, taking into account the commercial, eductional, health and recreational needs of the population
     Prof. Rabbani committed the Islamic State to paying special attention to reviving and developing agriculture during reconstruction, so that the country would become self-sufficient in food production in the near future.
     The Islamic government would promote and guarantee domestic and foreign investment, said Prof. Rabbani, who called such investment a significant step towards industrial development.
     The president asked all Afghan scholars, scientists, engineers, physicians, and experts who live abroad to respond to the needs of their Islamic homeland and fulfill their religious duty by participating in Afghanistan's reconstruction.
     Prof. Rabbani announced that the Islamic Slate would launch a comprehensive campaign against (he cultivation, production; trafficking and use of narcotics and other intoxicants. The government would also take measures for the treatment of drug addicts, he said.
     He hoped that the United .Nations and friendly countries would help Afghans to fulfill this humane goal by providing financial and technical asssis-tance for implementation of the program.
     Prof. Rabbani stressed the need for Islamization of the educational system and said that Islamic subjects will be treated as the essential element of school curricula. The Islamic State will abolish from school books those materials found to be against Islamic principles.
     He said the Islamic State intended to reform the women's educational system, in order to acquaint women with the essentials of knowledge and culuire in accordance with the needs of Afghanistan's Islamic society. Women will enjoy all the rights and privileges endowed them under the teachings of Islam, he added.
     Prof. Rabbani said he respected freedom of expression, within the framework of the Islamic Sharia, and considered it necessary for society's intellectual growth.
     Prof. Rabbani stated that Afghanistan’s foreign policy would be based on protecting and promoting national interests, consolidating independence and national sovereignty, defense of territorial integrity, preservation of
 world peace and security, elevating Afghanistan's prestige within the international community, and ensuring the welfare and tranquility the society of mankind.
     The Islamic Slate, he continued, respected the United Nations charter, the International Declaration of Human Rights and all other established principles and norms of international law which are consistent with Islamic principles.
     He said Afghanistan would play an active role in the non-aligned movement and in the Organization of the Islamic Conference.
     Prof. Rabbani said the Islamic State would support .the rights of Palestinians and added ihat it supports the solution of the Kashmir problem on the basis of UN resolutions. Afghanistan would support the struggles of the Muslims of Burma, the Philippines and Bosnia-Hercegovina.
     He thanked Afghanistan's two Islamic neighbors, Pakistan and Iran, for the help they had rendered to Afghanistan's Muslims during the past 14 years. He also expressed his gratitude to all other Muslim countries — particularly Saudi Arabia -- who strongly supported the Jehad.
     The president also thanked the US, China, Japan and western European countries for supporting the Afghan struggle.                          •
     Prof. Rabbani rebuked the government of India for not support the just cause of Afghans during Soviet occupation of their country. But he added that Afghanistan stood ready nevertheless to establish good relations with India, which is a a member of the non-aligned movement and has a large Muslim population.
     He said Afghanistan was keen to establish friendly relations with the newly independent Central Asian Muslim republics, and expressed confidence that friendship between the Islamic State of Afghanistan and neighboring Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan would result in the growth of commercial, economic and cultural ties.
     Prof. Rabbani said Afghanistan was ready to normalize its relations with Russia, but added that Moscow, as the legal heir of the former Soviet Union, should help rebuild Afghanistan as well as paying war reparations.