| IMTHE BAM Of AIMtOHn ALLAH |
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI’AT ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 2G4. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                VOL. Ill, NO. 17. 1/9/1987.
                                                                 WILL RUSSIA SUCCEED IN SE' NORTHERN AFGHANISTAN
 Reports about Russian design to annex Northern Afghanistan into its own empire and create a rump state in the South . have been circulating around since the time of Tarakl and Amin--before the Russian invasion. Recent reports in the news media talk about the intensification of Russian efforts in that direction Ce.a. Pakistan Times. July 30).
                       /
 Russian moves which indicate that country’s intentions include the following:
 1- Encouraging the Tajik. Uzbak and Turkman people in the North to assert their ethnic, cultural and linguistic independence .
 2- Settlement of about 3o,ooo people from the colonized central Asia in the Northern cities: They have taken over schools and civil services and work for the achievement of the Russian aim by their propaganda and their activities.
 3- Indoctrination of the Northern youth: Host of the 50000 . Afghan children (mainly under the age of io> sent to study ini Russia since 1980 are from the North* Thus, most of the 20,000 Afghans who have returned from Russia are stationed
 in the Northern provinces.
 4- Reliance on local militias and police forces Instead of the Afghan puppet army: There are only two divisions of the puppet army in the North and the number of their troops does not exceed a few thousands. The number of the militia and police forces, on the other hand, are several times more.
 5- Establishing direct cultural and economic ties between the Northern provinces and the Central Asian "Republics":
 Ten major economic agreements have been signed between Russian authorities and Governers of Northern provinces in the last few months without the participation of the Kabul regime. Cultural exchanges are also conducted directly.
 6- Grooming a leader: Sayed Naseem Shah, a Russian agent who spent 16 years in that conntry, was brought back to Afghanistan in 1982. He was rapidly promoted through, the ranks of the puppet party and in less than 3 years was made a member of the Central Committee. He is the head of the treacherous group "setam-e-Mi11i", and the commander of the "Mohafiz" Militia force. He is being mentioned as the future leader
 of the ”i6th Soviet Republic".
RFGHAH HEUS 001.Ill, HO.17,        1/9/1967,PAGE 2
The evidence about the Russian plan is quite clear. But the question is: will Russia succeed in its design? There is no doubt about the fact that if Russia could, it would have annexed the whole Afghanistan. In failing to do that, it might use annexation of the North and creation of a rump state in the south as an alternative. There are equally clear evidence, however, that Russia is doomed to fail in this as well. Some of the reasons are the following:
1-  The same factors that will determine Russia’s ultimate defeat in Afghanistan as a whole are also at work in the North: People’s strong faith in Allah, their readiness to sacrifice their belongings and their lives for the defence
of their religion and homeland, and their determination to * continue the struggle to the la3t person. Russia’s success— or rather lack of it--in coopting the Afghans is not different in the North than in other parts of the country (in spite of their efforts to incite people’s ethnic sentiments).'
2-  There is much more cooperation and coordination among Mujahideen in the Nort;h than in other parts of the country. Engineer Ahmad Shah Masoud’s activities and his "supervisory Council of the North” is specially significant in this regard.
3- Because x»f the social structure of Tajik, Uzbak and Turkman
people in the North, there is more room for the growth of broadbased politico-military organizations there then among Pushtoons in the South (see Olivier Roy's Islam and the Resistance in Afghanistan> .                    ’=■
4-  Similiar reasons that prevent Israel from annexing the occupied West Bank will finally force the Russians to alter their plan for annexation of Northern Afghanistan. They are:
a- The outcry and opposition of the world people as a whole and especially those of Muslims.
b- Big changes in the ratio of Musiira/non-Muslim population: Russians already feel threatened by the high birth rate among their subjugated Muslim citizens. Several million more Muslims with their high birth rate will certainly accelerate the pace of the "time-bomb*’. Moreover, as Western expersts on Russia (for example. Dr. Alexander Bennigsen) observe, because of the intercourse among the Muslims of Afghanistan and Russia, the spirtt of Jihad is slowly, but steadily, being expanded in the Muslim territories of Russia. Thus, Russians must realize that annexation of Northern of Afghanistan will mean the beginning of the end of their empire.
            PROF. RABBANI RETURNS TO PESHAWAR
Prof. Rabbani, leader of J.J.A., who had gone to West Germany on July 20 returned to Peshawar on August 24. During his trip,prof. Rabbani gave speeches to the Muslim communities in various German cities and talked to the TV, radio, and newspaper reporters.
flFGHBH HEMS UOL.tll, HO.17,       1/9/1987,PR6E 3
HElfS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
KANDAHAR PROVINCE
August 23.1987: Mujahideen under the command of Mullah Naqib launched a rocket and artillery attack on Russian base in Dashti Soufian of Kandahar. As a result, a large Russian weapons depot got fire. The fire and explosions were so strong that the ammunitions in the depot would fly up and their empty shells would fall as far away as the Qandahar city. The details of Russain casualties are not known yet.
                           HERAT PROVINCE           —
  AUfli.LSt_L8.JJ2Q2: It is reported that Dr. Najib, the General secretary of the puppet party, went to a trip to Herat on August 18. In order to "welcome" him. Mujahideen of Hazrat Hamza Diyision (belonging to Jamiat Islami) launched a rocket attack on/the Russians and puppet troops in the 17th Division headquarters, and in Maiferoshan in the western part of the city- Three tanks and a large number oF trucks were destroyed! and their crew were killed. A Russian depot took fire and was burning for 24 hours
                                        MAIPAN PROVINCF
 ,4M3.—Sj^7: Mujahideen of Jamiat under the command of Mohammad Islam attacked an enemy convoy which was travelling from Kandahar to Kabul near Durrani of Maidan province. In the operation two tanks, one APC and six trucks were destroyed and 12 soldiers were killed. Mujahideen captured two soldiers with their weapons as well as five other Kalashinkovs and two pieces of artillery.
 July 27-Aug 2.87: Mujahideen of Jamiat under the command of. .• Mullah Ezt launched continous attacks on enemy military post in Kotaishrow of Maidan. as a result of the operations 196 enemy troops were killed and a large number were wounded. Two posts were completely destroyed, several were damaged and one fell in the hands of Mujahideen. Mujahideen also destroyed one tank and captured 15 Kalashinkovs and some ammunitions. Mujahideen casualties included one Martyred and four wounded.            1
RFGHRH HEUS UOL.III, HO.17, 1/9/1W.PWE 4
                          KUNDUZ PROVINCE
August 14.87: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front under the command
of samiullah performed a guerrilla; attack on the puppet regime's forces in Angoor Bagh. They fooled the enemy troops by wearing their own uniforms, as a result they were able to capture a number of officers including two high ranking officials belonging to KHAD. It is reported that the puppet regime has shown readiness to exchange the Mujahideen in its jails for those captured.
August 10,1987: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front of Jamiat Islami launched an attack on the Pul-e-Kheshti military post in Al i Abad of Kunduz.In’the operation three-: enemy troops— including a notorious officer named Turan Juma-were killed , and 19 soldiers and officers were arrested. Mujahideen captured 25 Kalashinkovs. 15 boxes of ammunitions and some other weapons. . A Mujahid commander, Wahidi, was wounded.
August .2,1981: Mujahideen of Alfarooq front under the command of Tash Taimor attacked a convoy of the puppet regime on ’ Kunduz-Baghlan road. They killed two enemy troops, wounded Three and captured another two of them. They also seized 14 tons of wheat and two 'kalashinkovs-. .
                                        PAKTIA PROVINCE
             Mujahideen of Jamiat in Ghul ing .under the command of Mtrza Khan shot down a Russian military transportion plane by Sam-7 rocket. Eight persons in the plane were killed in the incedent.
                     KUNAR-PROVINCE
 Aug. 3.87: Mujahideen of^Abu Ubaid Front under the command of Mai ang attacked the Lamatak military post in Tarhang sub district by Mortar and other heavy and light weapons. Nine communist troops were killed and 12 were wounded.
 ' Augl 7.87Mu iahideen of Harwal Front attacked enemy’s military posts in Sarkani . Three militias were killed and four were wounded.
                      JAWZJAN PROVINCE
July. 1987:   Mujahideen captured the Zair-e-Jar military
post of the enemy after 18 hours of fighting. Five enemy troops were killed and nine were wounded. Mujahideen seized five Kalashinkovs, one machineyun, and 10 boxes of ammunitions.
July 24.1987: Six Russian jets heavily bombarded the liberated areas under the control of Jamiat Mujahideen’s central front. One person was martyred and 27 were wounded. Fifteen of those injured were children studying in a Madrasa (religious school). Napalm bombs used]'by the Russians burned down five wheat fields and killed about 100 sheep and cattle.
BFGHRH HEHS '.'01.111, HO. 17,     1/9/1907,PH6E 5
                              INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOUD (PART Ip
Following is the first part, of the text of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masoud, the famous commander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the .Political Office of J.I.A., in Worsaj sub-district of Takhar province on July 21, 1987. Part II of the interview will be on Masoud's views on political solution of the Afghanistan issue and part III on the activities of the Supervisory Council of the North.
Q. How do you survey the general situation of war this year.?t A. Russians’ main military goal this year has been to close the borders. This is why most of their attacks were focused on Eastern and Southern Afghanistan near the borders--such as 'Paktiaand Kandahar--and to some extent on the West in Herat.,,-Thus, enemy's operations have been relatively less in the Cpn-ral and Northern parts of Afghanistan.
The main goals pursued by Mujahideen--and especially by our fronts in the North--have been to destroy enemy's military, posts and garrisons and to clean up the area from the enemy* The reason is that we are at the stage of building Paigahs (bases); thus we mostly focus our attacks on enemy targets in mountainous areas.
As far as we can see, the enemy has failed in implementing its plan to close the borders. It had failed in the past, and it has failed again. Of course, the enemy has created some problems along the way, but it has not been able to stop Mujahideen movement.
on the Mujahideen side, our war of "wearing down" ha? continued. Like last year, we have also continued our semi-mobile wars with success. One example is the conquest of Kalafgan garrison which was defeated in 45 minutes and Mujahideen captured it.
                                          ■
o. How do you view Mujahideen’s victory in Kalafgan from military point of view?
A. From military point of view, it was indeed a step forward. When we look at the combination of the troops which took part in the operation, we see they come from different bases such as Keshem (Badakhshan);Farkhar, Worsaj and Kalafgan (Takhar)^ Khoost wa Fereng (8aghlan>: Panjshir(Parwan); and the Central units. They all participated in the operation under one command. This shows Mujahideen’s progress in bringing about unity, order, and coordination among themselves.
From a tactical point of view, the operation was "semi-mobile" war. In such a war, enemy’s weak point is discovered, forces are brought together from different places, a sudden attack is launched on the enemy, and then the forces are dispersed again.
The fact that with the help of God we have reached the stage to undertake mobile and semi-mobile wars is a giant step forward compared to the past.
Q. How is the war situation in your principle base, i.e.;Panj-
shir?
A. We can not call Panjshir as our principle base. Everywhere is our principle base; Among our bases. Panjshir is one of our
ordinary bases.
RF0HW1 HEMS UOL.III, MO.17,      l/9/1907,P«E 6
In general, the war situation is satisfactory in Panjshir.
The enemy has taken position in six or seven garrisons. In military terraenology. such wars are called "wars of forti fications". To counter such a war and crash enemy's fortifications, two types of wars must be undertaken. 1>*to keep the enemy busy by a small number of forces in the area where it wants to use fortified war and move most of the forces to other areas which are much more important for the enemy than the first area. 2>- To launch a continous war of "wearing-down" which takes heavy toll f i opj the enemy in the area in which fortifications are established.
With the help of God. we undertook both types of the wars in Panjshir. First, our organizational work and our wars « outside Panjshir were accomplished with success and are progressing. Enemy's main aim of fortified war was to limit us to Panjshir and to keep us busy there. It failed in its plan, we were able to establish the second .third and fourth -bases. We were able to develop the war outside Panjshir and position ourselves in such points that are more important and strategic for the enemy. :
Second, war of "wearing down" has been going on in Panjshir to a greater or lesser degree all the time. The enemy has suffered heavy casualties as a result of this war . That is why it has had to re-strengthen its strongholds over and over.
In Panjshir we conduct several types of fighting. 1>- Firing by artillery and heavy weapons on enemy's garrisons to the extent that the enemy troops can not walk freely within their garrisons during the day 2)- Planting mines on the ways leading to the garrisons. 3>- Ambushing enemy troops and cutting their supply routes. The enemy has suffered heavy casualties by such operations. 4>- Firing on enemy planes by D.Sh.K and other- heavy machineguns. Every few days a helicopter Is shot down. 5)- For each of enemy's posts on mountain tops two or three persons are assigned. As soon as a soldier raises his head, he is killed by light weapon firing. 6>- Froin time to time. Mujahideen attack enemy’s military posts and capture some of them.
It should be added that so far we have not intended to capture the garrisons. 1f we wanted, we could have done so. But we have reasons to prefere the present form of war to continue.*
Q. But Russians have been able to create problems for the people of Panjshir by having their garrisons there. Do not you think your newly-established bases would have a similiar
fate?
A. The enemy is sorry for the type of war it started in Panjshir. It launched this war to eliminate us or at least to keep us busy. But it failed badly. Now it Is the prisoner of its
own making.
The enemy would have withdrawn its forces from Panjshir long time ago if it were not for fear of damage to its prestige and political .status. At the present, 3700 Russian troops and a domestic division called "Division No.2" are positioned in Panjshir. Just imagine! one district having so foany troops engaged in itself--and engaged in a way they can not accomplish anything useful. They are completely in a negative defensive position and suffer casualties every day. Thus,
I am sure the enemy will try its best never to commit the same mistake.
BFGWflH HEMS VOL. 111, HO. 17,  1/9/1TO7.PHK  7
Moreover, even if they wanted to launch similiar wars elsewhere,/ the Russians would neither have enough personnel nor economic capabi1ities, wi th the blessings of God, we,have established so many bases that with the present number of enemy troops, it is impossible to position sufficient number of soldiers in each of our bases. You can see an indication of the enemy's failure in Panjshir in the fact that it has approached us several times (both Russians and their puppets) requesting that we hold talks with them on Panjshir. But we did not deem such talks in the interest of our Jihad, so we rejected their offers. For us it is much preferable that enemy troops are kept busy in Panjshir, and we carry out our activities freely elsewhere.
                   FROM THE DIARY OF JEHAD m
Our group had gone from Jegdalik to Gogaraanda to find and bury the bodies of Rahimullah Hafizl and Hashmatullah Noor Ebad who were martyred by mine explosions. On its way back, the group rested in a village at the outskirts of the Soroobi town. In the afternoon, the group came near the road to take a bus to Jegdalik.
Nadir's family lived in the village near the Soroobi town which was under the Russian and the puppet government's control. Nadir himself, who was 17 years old, had moved to Jegdalik to join the Mujahideen of Commander Anwar. He had come to visit his relatives on the occasion of Eid-e-Ramadhan.
Now, he also wanted to return to Jegdalik. *=-
Nadir was wearing the new clothes he had made on the occasion of Eid. He was happy he had seen his family. Moreover, he was witty by nature. Thus, he was laughing and Joking with Mujahideen who were waiting for the bus.
Nadir was very much fond of fighting the Russians. When the bus took too long to come, he started insisting on the commander of the group to go and launch an attack, on the enemy base in town. The commander kept refusing, however, because he did not have the permission of the general commander.
We wore sitting on a small mount near the road. Other members of the group were scattered in small groups on or along the road. Nadir was with us making the long waiting period bearable by his charming smiles and witty talks. Three minutes after he left us, we heard an explosion. We run to find hideouts because we thought we had come under bombardment from the nearby base.
Soon we learnt it was not a bombardment. Rather, this was what had happened: Nadir, wi t!h his enthusiasm for fighting, was playing with the rocket launcher. Suddenly the launcher fired by mistake. And.... it blew half of Nadir's head away. Two minutes after the explosion (only five minutes after he had left us> we heard Nadir was dead! (Do we realize how fragile our lives are?).
But the story is not finished yet. People informed Nadir's father, Haji Mohammad All, of his son's Maryrdora. He and some other relatives came. We all took the bodv to Jegdalik for
burial.
AFGHAN HEUS VOL.III, HO.17,         1/9/I9B7,PR6E 8
It sounds unbelievable, but I did not see one tear in the eyes of the white-bearded father during several days he was with us. He returned to Soroobi after the funral and Fateha (condolence) ceremonies.
A week later I withnessed a more amazing act of the old man. Believe it or not, he sent his 15 years old son, saber, to Jegdalik to replace Nadir in Jihad. This happened less than two weeks after Nadir's Martyrdom.
When I saw this, I thought by myself: How would Russians hope to defeat such people whose youth (like Prophet David) are not afraid to face the giant enemy and whose elderly (like Prophet Abraham) are ready to sacrifice their sons on the way
of God?.                                                       «
P.S. Saber is still with commander Anwar's Mujahideen. After several years of Jihad, he is a very experienced and active Mujabid.
SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
                     Follpwing is the text of a casesheet prepared by AMNESTY INTERNAT1ONAL
March 1987
 KALANDAR SADURDINOV
Kaiandar Sadurdinov, a Muslim from the Soviet republic of Tadzhikstan. is imprisoned for criticizing Soviet policy in Afghanistan. Since he neither used nor advocated violence in support of his views. Amnesty International believes his imprisonment violates his right to freedom of expression and is adopting him as a prisoner of conscience.
BADKGROtiND
In 1973 the USSR ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Poltical Rights, Article 19 of which proclaims freedom of expression as a fundamental human right. Nevertheless, Soviet citizens who criticize official policies or who possess or distribute material disapproved of by the authorities, still risk imprisonment under laws that restrict freedom of expression. These are the laws against "anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda" and against "circulating anti-Soviet slander", which exist in the criminal codes of all of the 15 republics of the USSR.
The information on Kaiandar Sadurdinov comes from a report in the official newspaper Kommuni st Tadzh'ikstana communist of Tadzhikstan dated 31 January 1987. It describes him as a foreman in a packaging combine in Kurgan-Tyube who worked as an unofficial mullah in his spare time. He was arrested in- : 1986 after leading a religious discussion group in which he
RFGHflH HEWS VOL.Ill, HO.17,       1/9/1967,PAGE 9
criticized the Soviet intervention in neighbouring Afghanistan and accused the Soviet authorities of suppressing Islam there. According to the newspaper, he was convicted of circulating anti-soviet slander" by Kurgan-Tyube regional court, and sentenced to imprisonment'under ar.ticl-d 203-1 of the Tadzhik Criminal Code.
Soviet troops entered Afghanistan in December 1979 /to install Babrak Karma 1 as ”President"_7. Since then it has been rare for offtcial sources in the USSR to report any opposition to Soviet policy in Afghanistan. The publicity given to Kalandar Sadurdinov’s case, however, can be seen as part of an intensive* campaign against nationalist and religious dissent which the* media in Tadzhikstan and the other republics of Soviet central Asia have waged since late 1986. This campaign intensified, after December 1986, when riots broke out in the Kazakh capital of Alma-Ata in protest against the appointment of an ethnic Russian, Gennady Kolbin. as First Secretary of the communist Party of the Kazakh Republic.
                                                  I
The USSR has the fifth largest population of Muslims in the world, estimated at around 50 million. Most of them live in the republics of Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan and are administered by the official Mo.slim Board of Central Asia and Kazakhstan. An official campaign against the Islamic faith in the 1970's left only 400 mosques still in service, and two
Medresses (or theology colleges), both based in Uzbekistan. However, unofficial religious activity appears to have flourished in recent years particularly among young men in their twenties and thirties to Judge from critical articles in the press. On 28 February 1987 Korrmunist Tadzhikstana reported that there were over 1,000 unofficial mullahs in the Tadzhik republic alone. In recent months Amnesty International has learned of several Tadzhiks imprisoned for teaching the Koran in private classes, or for performing traditional marriage ceremonies without, permission. Some were'descri bed as Wahabis, who had advocated a return to traditional values of the Koran , and the formation of an independent Islamic state within Tadzhikstan. Amnesty International is taking up their cases for investigation or adoption as prisoners of conscience.
At pesent there are few details on Kalandar Sadurdinov. The '■ newspaper did not say if he has any family nor when his trial took place. Although Amnesty International does not know the sentence he received, three years' imprisonment is the maximum provided under Article 203-1 of the Tadzhik Criminal Code and it is probable that he is serving his sentence in a corrective labour colony in the Tadzhik republic.
                                             REGRET
We express our regret for numerous typing mistakes in our last issue. We hope our readers did not find them too confusing.
1 CM THE HAH» Of AlHICBn A1LAH |
AFGHANnews
          A FORTNIGHTLY BULLETIN OF JAMI'AT ISLAM I AFGHANISTAN POST OFFICE BOX 264. PESHAWAR- PAKISTAN.
                VOL. Ill, NO. 18, 15/9/1987.
                             WHY DO SOME PAKISTANI POLITICIANS DANCE TO RUSSIAN MUSIC
Russians seem to have openned a new front in their political -war in Afghanistan: inviting Pakistani politicians to visit Kabul and Moscow. After ANP leaders, whose association with -. Moscow is quite clear and their frequent trips to the communist countries do not interest anyone any more, the leader of Tahrik Isteqlal was the first one to take the initiative of travelling to Kabul. Then Mdulana Kausar Niazi travelled to the Soviet Union to-be followed by a trip to Kabul.~akhar imam also accepted invitation tb Moscow and Kabul and will start his trip next month. Maulana Ahmad Shah Noorani is also mentioned as a candidate for travelling to Moscow and Kabul.
Why do the trips take place at this time and what aims do Russians hope to achieve?
It seems that the Russians extended their invitations not recently, but several months ago. Fakhar Imam mentioned this fact and brought an excuse why he did not respond earlier. His excuse might be genuine. It is also possible, however, that the politicians did not accept the invitations at that time for they felt the mood of the country was anti-Russian. Because of numerous bomb explosions accompanied by anti-government and anti-refugee demonstrations in the last few months, however, they hope the mood has changed now.
The timing of the invitlons clearly shows that they are part of Russians' latest propaganda offensive and political manoeuvres' which were launched in January this year. The Russians hoped that the trips of Pakistani politicians to Kabul would provide their puppet regime with the badly-needed legitimacy (a strange way of legitimization, indeedt). They also hoped that they could use the politicians as propagandists for their so-called "ceaze-fire" and "national reconciliation" schemes. The politicians would have also certainly put pressure on the Pakistani government to give in to the Russian demands and to agree with a "solution" of the Afghanistan problem favorable to the Soviet Union.
Russians certainly had a late start in using Pakistani politicians in favor of their puppets in Afghanistan. Moreover, it seems doubtful the trips coul/d bring any legitimacy to the Kabul regime. The real source of legitimacy is the people.
When 99 percent of the people of a country are against a re-gim, no power in the world could legitimize i.ts .rule.
in using the Pakistani politicians as £heir propagandists and pressure group, however, Russians seem to be successful. Even before the trips took place, many opposition parties in
flFBHflH HEMS VOL .III, HO. 10, 15W19e?,PRCE 2
Pakistan had taken the Russian side urging the Government to recognize the puppet regime in Kabul and to take measures against the Afghan refugees. PPP which was si lent about the issue until the mid August, also joined the chorus after the Mardan explosions. After his trip to Kabul . Asghar Khan "debunked the propaganda which said the Muslims were being persecuted in Afghanistan." He said "Islam was not in danger" there. He praised the puppet regime's policies for "development both in education and industrial spheres." He also "accused Pakistan government of stopping the refugees from going back." According to him, "there is political will in Moscow to withdraw from Afghanistan;" but it is upto the Pakistan government to create "an: amicable situation."
                                                                                            c
Now the questions are why the Pakistani politicians accept the invitations and why they fabricate such flagrant lies. How can they close their eyes to the barbarism and inhuman brutal i ties going on next door--Peshawar hospitals and refugee camps are full of their victims? How could they disregard the views of tens of millions of their own population, hundreds of millions of other Muslims, and thousands of millions of peace and 1iberty-loving people around the world in support of the just cause of the Afghan nation? How could they not recognize the danger that the existancc of a pro-Russian government in Afghanistan will pose to the security of Pakistan? (As Prof.Rabbani said in one of his speeches, the presence of Afghan refugees in Pakistan is not a real threat to this country's security;but, because of the Soviet*s-long range plans, the establishment of a stable communist regime-in Afghanistan will certainly manance the integrity of Pakistan.) How can they forget the verse of the Holy Quran which states, "And why should yet not fight In the cause of God and of those who, being weak, are ill-treated (and oppressed)?" (A: 75>
We do not have any1 responses to these questions. Neither do we find any justifications for the behavior of the politi -cians. We consider them too astute to become tools in the hands of the Russians, on the other hand, we believe their trips are neither in their own interest nor in the interest of their country both in the short run and in the long run • Asghar Khan’s allegations are astounding. We do not expect the Maulana and Fakhar Imam to repeat them -though, we did not expect, their trips either.
while condemning the trips to Kabul and Moscow at this point of time, we invite the politicians to reconsider their posi-tionsand to re-join the majority of their people and their Muslim brothers in support of the Afghan Mujahideen.
we believe the politicians are mistaken about the mood of their country'. The ties among the Afghan and Pakistani Muslims are too strong and deeply-rooted to be broken by some terrorist activities. If the politicians hope to gain some political grounds by such trips and propaganda--in disregard to their religious and historical responsibi 1 ities--t.hey will be badly disappointed. Then, why should they dance to the Russian music?
flFBHflH HEMS VOL. I It, HO. 19, tS/9/1997,PRGE 3
J.I.A.'S MASSAGE TO THE DELEGATES OF THE . AUTUMN CONFERENCE OF THE SWEDISH COMMITTEE FOR AFGHANISTAN
 Heavy fight is still going on in Afghanistan. Russians intensified their war efforts during the summer. They have also intensified, however, their propaganda offensive and political manoeuvres. The aims of their propaganda seem to be:
 1- To provide a cover for their increased atrocities and inhuman brutalities.
 2- To confuse the public opinion and world governments about, their real goals and plans in Afghanistan, i.e., to show as if* they are ready to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan and bring peace to that country.
 3 To present an image of peacefulness of themselves and their puppets and an image of bellicose (war-loving) of the Resistance by proposing "peaceful solutions" which they already know are unacceptable to Mujahideen.
 4- To stop the moral and material support the Mujahideen receive f rom 1 iberty and justice loving people around the world.
 5. To create rift and disunity among Mujahideen.
 Mujahideen have been able to successfully fight back the Russian superpower at the battlefields. We habe limited capabilities, however, to mount a successful struggle at the Political and propaganda levels.
 We need the assistance and cooperation of the supporters of our just cause around the world in order to fight back Russians' propaganda war and political manoeuvres. Thus, we request bur friends at the Swedish committee for Afghanistan and elsewhere :
 1- -Not to be fooled and confused by the Russian propaganda.
      v
 2- To continue their relentless support of our just cause until all the Russian troops leave Afghanistan and the Afghan people get the opportunity to excercise their right of self-determination .
 3- To make the world people know that Mujahideen are against bloodshed. We want peace, but genuine peace with liberty and real i ridependenc.e.
 A- To ask their governments to put political and economic presssure on the Soviet government to stop genocide and atrocities against innocent people and to unconditionally withdraw its.troops from Afghanistan.
 5 Peace in Afghanistan should be a test of Gorbachev’s sincerity about peace and disarmament in Europe. This should be turned into an issue by holding rallies, meetings and demons-
 trati ons.
 At the end, once again we express our appreciation for your continuous support of our just cause. May God bless you.
flFCHRM MENS VOL .III, NO. 16, 15^9/19e?,PRCE h
NEWS FROM THE BATTLE FIELDS
                                     KANDAHAR PROVINCE
 Sept. 4.1987: Russians have began implementing a new plan in . order to protect their garrisons near the Kandahar city from Mujahideen attacks. They have started construction of a new road from Kokaran Silo to Teerpdimal mountain. They also want to build a bridge on thfe Arghandab river. Thus, they want to connect Charbagh road to Terkia sand garrison; and. by establishing military posts along the road, stop Mujahideen’s movement in the area.
 Mujahideen of Mula Naqib group attacked the enemy troops guarding the workers who build the road on Sept. 2,3. and A. Fourteen tanks and other vehicles were destroyed, and about 40 soldiers were captured along with their weapons.
 Sept. 5.1987: Mujahideen under the command of Mula Naqib launched an attack on Russians* new garrison and its family compound (in which the families of the Russian and Afghan officers live) in Shawalikot district of the Kandahar province. The new compound is located about three kilometers from the Kandahar city along the Kandahar-Kabul highway. The fighting lasted from l;00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. According to inside Information, about 50 Russians and 60 pro-Russian Afghans were killled in the attack and 10 military vehicles were destroyed.
 To revenge the attack, the Russians bombarded Mujahideen positions near Shawalikot district heavily for three days, but there were no life casualties.
                                       FARYAB PROVINCE
 August 21.1987: Russian and puppet troops launched a strong attack on the villages at the outskirts of the Malmana city on July 23. The air and ground bombardment was extremely severe. Most probably the Russians used chemical weapons as well because many of the villagers developed skin deseases later on. In the attack about 3000 houses in Dihyan, Shah Baqi, Alat Khana, Charmgar, Balooch. Gul Khana, Qatoor, and Shah Foul ad villages were distroyed and about 90 percent of the villagers had to migrate. Seventeen mosques and hundreds of farms were also destroyed and 19 wheat harvests were burned down.
 Mujahideen under the command of Muhammad Sadiq, Sayed Alau-ddin and Yar Muhammad fought back against the invading troops.
flFGMOH NEMS VCL 11 I, HO.1©, !5/9/1997,PRCE 5
Until August 21, they had killed about 200 puppet troops--including at least 10 officers. Three prominent officer killed in the fightings are Major Faiz Muhammad, the Jalal Gazhdum, and Ubaidullah—the commander of pro-Russian militia troops in Faryab.
Mujahideen and villagers life casualties included nine Mujahideen and 15 civilians martyred and AO Mujahideen and 70 civilians wounded.
Until the last week of August--when the report was written--the fighting still continued.
                          JAWZJAN PROVINCE
                                                                                           1
July 24,.1987: According to delayed but reliable reports from Oarqeen find Aqcha districts of Jawzjan province (Northern Afghanistan), Mujahideen of Jamiat Jslami Afghanistan in those districts under the command,of Muhammad Junta and Ahmad Pahlawan . launched an attack on the Russian ships in Amu river on July 24,1987. They destroyed two transportation ships by artillery and rocket Firings killing all the crew. To revenge the Mujahideen attack. Russian forces attacked Qarqeeu directly from the Russian soil on the same day.
Their operations in Qarqeen lasted for eight days. Mujahideen of Qarqeen withdrew to Aqcha. Then the Red Army attacked Aqcha and was abJe to besiege the Mujahideen in Jangal Rareeq village. After fighting very strongly for five days. Mujahideen were forced to find a way For withdrawal* Russians captured Rareeq village and committed a savage massacre of every living being for four hours. Most of the houses were levelled to the ground and all the wheat crop was burned down. Other villages in Aqcha also came under heavy air and ground bombardments.
The report, notes that both Afghans (civi 1 ians and Mujahideen) and Rusians have suffered heavy casualties. The de,tails, however, are not available yet. Shooting down of one helicopter and destruction of eight tanks have been tonfirmed.
                                      HERAT PROVINCE
Sept. 3.3987: According to a report by telephone from J.I.A. office in Mashhad, Iran, Mujahideen of Hazrat Hamza front under the command of Alaudeen Khan launched an attack on the villages under the control of pro-Russian militias in east of the Herat city on August 23, Dy September 2, they had libe rated 17 villages. Mujahideen captured 80 Kalashinkovs and other types of weapons. Three mi 1 i tia commanders--Mualem Junta Gu1, Haji Aliandad, and Abdul Qayura--joined the Mujahideen With their troops. The exact number of casualties from both sides is not available yet.
                                    NTNGARHAR PROVINCE
August 29.1987: Mujahideen of Jamiat,in Mohmand Dara under the leadership of Abdul Zaher attacked enemy’s military posts near the border. The fighting lasted from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Eleven enemy soldiers were killed and seven were wounded. One vehicle was also destroyed and the posts were damaged.
flFDHHH HEUG VGL.III, NO. 19, 15f9/199?,PnGE 6
                                      PAKTIKA PROVINCE
August 21.1987; The central Tulaba (religious students) front of j.i.a. and Al-Me'rag front under the command of Maulawi Ghulam launched a joint attack with Mujahideen of other organizations on Khairkot garrison. They destroyed four vehicles and 12 rooms in the garrison. Several enemy troops were also killed and wounded. One Mujahid, Nazar Muhammad, was martyred and six others were injured.
INTERVIEW WITH AHMAD SHAH MASOUD                 «
            < PART 11)
Following is the second part of the text of an interview with Ahmad Shah Masoud, the famous cammander of Mujahideen in the North. He was interviewed by Abdul Hafiz, a member of the Political office of J.I.A., in Worsaj sub-district af Takhar province on July 21,1987. Part I of the interview H/as on the war situation and part III will be on the activities of the Supervisory.Council of the North.
Q. What do you think about "national reconciliation" and formation of a coal ition government announced by the Kabul regime? what has been your practical response?
A. In my view, "national reconciliation” is only a cover by which the Russians want to hide their continuous military defeats in Afghanistan and also their political failures in the communist party. Moreover, at the international scene they want to creat a rift among the friends of Jihad. Among Mujahideen also they want to create divisions and separate some forces from Jihad,
In general, in my mind puppet, government's "nationul reconciliation's nothing but a ruse by which the Russians want to achieve their evil aims. They hope it provides Najib the opportunity to stabalize iiis regime, strengthen his army and make better preparations for future fightings.
At the beginning when "national reconciliation" was announced, we held a meeting of the Mujahideen of the Northern Afghanistan and some other parts. The brothers unanimously rejected the "national reconciliation” scheme. We announced our decision through a proclamation at that time.
0. What do you think about Zaher shah?
A. The fact that the (puppet) government is ready to accept Zaher shah is a clear indication of Russians’ failure at the military' field. Zaher Shah was not acceptable to Mujahideen in the past, however, and he is still unacceptable.
                                       . .»►. - .
Q. But in his interviews, zaher shah calls himself a servant of the people of Afghanistan, not their future king. Why do Mujahideen not want Zaher shah to serve his homeland and his
people?
flFBHRH HEMS UCJL . (I I, HO.18, 15/9/199?, PtWE 7
A. Zaher Shah cannot serve the Afghan nation under the present conditions. At this point, stopping the war and Jihad in Afghan nistan is an act of treason. This war must reach its climex, which will mean enemy's military defeat and Russians' readiness to talk directly to Mujahideen. Until and unless Russians directly talk to Mujahideen, who are the real representative of the Afghan people, any half-way talks and half-way solu tions are not in the interest of this nation, nor in the interest of Islam. Thus, if Zaher Shah or anyone else commits such an action in the name of serving the nation, he is rejected by Mujahideen.
Q. if Zaher Shah does not oppose the armed Jihad of the Afghan people and wants to lead it, what will be your view?
A. Zaher shah or anyone else who can really unite the Mujahi-. cleen and lead Ihem against the Russians--anyone who really has the capability to do this and serve Islam--we will not have anything against him.
About Zaher shah, however, he is not the person from whom we can expect this. In my view, first of all he is not ready for such a job. Secondly, he lacks the experience about military affairs and the present circumstances in Afghanistan. He also lacks the necessary competence and skills.
During his rule in Afghanistan, when the normal situation prevailed and the country was calm, Zaher Shah^did not demonstrate any competence in carrying out his duties. How could he undertake the leadership now under the present conditions?
Thus, in spite of Zaher Shah's claims, his past record shows he is not the man of action and struggle and connot serve the nation.
0. If the U.S., the Soviet Union and Pakistan all agree on bringing Zaher Shah to power, what will happen then?
A. What has caused Russians' failure todaji is God's Mercy first. In the realm of Possibilities, It is the Afghan nation^ determination which has led to Russians' defeat, when the Afghan people do not want something, no superpower could impose it by force. At the present, the Afghan people do not want Zaher Shah, and the superpowers connot make him their ruler by force.
Q. Some political observers believe Russians want to leave Afghanistan but do not know how. As a famous commander of Mujahideen, can you present a practical proposal so that Russians withdraw their troops from Afghanistan and peace and se~ curty returns to the country?
A. We believe war and Jihad has not reached its maturity in Afghanistan yet. We still have a long distance from Mtijahideens goals which are genuine freedom of Afghanistan and establishment of an Islamic state.
1 do not have any particular proposal in regard to what you said. It is up to the leaders what kind of proposals they present. in my personal view, however, continuation of Jihad is better at this stage then finding political solutions.
flPCHflH HEH8 VOL -III, HO. 16, 15/9/1967, PRGE 8
                  FROM THE DIARY OF JIHAD
it was the second day of Eid-e-Qurban (the Festivity of the Sacrifice). I and two of my friends went to visit a Mujahid who had lost one leg and one eye by mine explosion in Parian
of Panjshir.
About ten other persons were present in the room. Next to the wounded brother was sitting a young man with smiling face and
neat clothes.
After the customary greetings (shaking hands), a Mujahid brother by the name Ibrahim, who knew everyone in the room, e introduced us to each other. He Introduced the young man besides the wounded Mujahid as a Mujahideen doctor.
Then the doctor cried to "say" something. And only then I realized he was deaf and dumb. He used sign language.
The name of the doctor was Fazlur Rahman. He has been engaged in Jiliad in the battlefield for the past several years. One of his brothers was martyred last year.
Fazlur Rahman has not studied in any medical college. At. the beginning he was assigned to assist Dr.Maroof, a mujahid doctor, in carrying his medical equipment from one village to an other. After some years, because of his talent and interest, as well as Dr. Maroof’s efforts,he became a skilled surgent.
He has treated many wounded Mujahideen so far.
He is a doctor who is active day and night under the harshest war conditions. When he hears about a wounded Mujahid, he quickly crosses high mountains and difficult passes to reach the Mujahid like an "angel of mercy".
The local people of Panjshir have many stories about Fazlur Rahinan. He not only treats Mujahideen, but like a kind nurse he takes care of them and even cooks them meals. Like a caring mother, he sits on their bed-side and consoles them. He is also a courageous fighter who takes part in aimed struggle.
I told Ibrahim, who was communicating with fazlur Rahman by sign language, to ask him if he likes to go to Pakistan.
Fazlur Rahman’s face changed arid you could see the signs of anger. He put the side of his right hand on his throat and made some other signs. Ibrahim translated them as stating, "I pre fer to be? killed here."
Then Fazlur Rahman took some medicine out of his briefcase and made some signs. Ibrahim said "he says., 'if I go to Pakistan, who will treat the Mujahideen?'”
I was deeply impressed by this scene. I realized that if Muja hideen lack many experts and educated persons, they certainly have a lot of committed and concerned individuals.
It also became clear to me that it is possible to learn things in the hot battlefields of Jihad and provide valuable services without ever attending any schools or universities.
HFDHOM NEUS VOL .111, MO. 19, 15^9/1997, PACE 9
I eye-witnessed how a silent doctor hears the cries o-f his people, heals their wounds, and consoles them.
And I was assured that the Islamic Jihad really works miracles.
SOLIDARITY WITH THE AFGHANS
The following is excerpted from Prof. Alexandre Benningsen's article, "Winning The War for Afghanistan," published in National Review. May a.1987.
 In the propaganda War for Afghanistan, unlike the shooting war, the Soviets have had things pretty much their own way. Hardly any distinguished visitor returns From Moscow without announcing that one or an other Soviet official confided to himthat Moscow is eager to find a political solution to the war in Afghanistan. Moscow has been saying the snme thing since February 1980, when Annand Hammer announced that Brezhnev was eager to withdraw; but that doesn't stop each would-be deplomat. from delivering the message as a brand-new development. The plea for peace is usually accompanied by a litany of reasons for wester^ despair: soviet losses in Afghanistan are moderate; the economic costs of the war are manageable; the Soviet public can’t put pressure on the Kremlin to wlt-draw. in short, we are told, sooner or later the Soviets must win the war, so the Afghans and their Western supporters might as well give in. But the doomsayers are overlooking one important fact: By remaining in Afghanistan indefinitely, Moscow risks inflaming rebellion among Its own Muslim population.
 The growing unrest in the Musi Inii republics may turn out to be what finally prompts Moscow to end the Afghan wav.
                                                     t
 The Soviet Muslim republics have never beeh completely integrated into the Russian empire. Withiu these republics, all key positions in the Red Army, the KGB and the Border Guards (which are part of the KGB), the Department of Economic Planing. and the Ministries of Irrigation and Finance are controlled by Russians. The same holds true for the Communist Parry hierarchy: At ail levels (republic, region, district, city) the Second Secretary, who is the actual Party boss, is always a Russian or other Slav.
 For sixty years, Moscow has been trying unsuccessfully, to eradicate Islam. In 1917, in Czarist Russia’s Muslim areas, there were thirty thousnd mosques, each with its attached ko-ranic school. Today fewer than 450 mosques remain. The Soviets forced the Musi im republ ics to substitute the Cyrillic alphabet for the Arabic alphabet that is used throughout the Muslim world, effectively cutting Soviet Muslims off from the entire rich heritage of Islam.
 But dispite Moscow’s best efforts, Sov.iet Musi ims retar n both their religious and their cultural Identity Muslim children are subjected to relentless anti-religious propaganda from the age of four. But today,- it is among the younger Muslim genera -tion--educated under Stalin. Khrushchev, and Brezhnev--that
HFGHfiH NEHS VCL.111, HO. 10, 15/9/100V,PRCE 10
 one finds the most outspoken nationalists. Anti-Russian sen-riment is strong throughout the Muslim areas, whether in the Volga Tatar regoin, which was conquered by the Russians more ' than four centuries ago. or in Turkestan occupied only in the
 last century. Russians and Muslims almost never intermarry. Soviet Muslims, particularly intellectuals, show a passionate interest in recent Islamic publications, we scholars in the West have often witnessed our visiting Central Asian colleagues rushing to the book-stores and libraries to read the forbidden writing of Pakistani. Iranian, or Egyptian fundamental ists- -when they can slip the tight leash of their KGB guardians .
 For more than half a century. Moscow kept the Soviet Muslim * popul ati on, hei rs to an ancient and brilliant Irano-Turkic. culture. isolated from the rest of the Muslim world. But by invading Afghanistan, the Red Army itself lifted the iron Cur- -tain that has artificially isolated Soviet Tadzhiks. i:zbeks7 ~ and Turkomans from their brethren in Afghanistan and Iran. Soviet Muslims, who frequently sympathized with the Afghan Mujahideen, are no longer used, as combat soldiers, but thousands of Soviet Muslims remain in Afghanistan as workers, truck drivers, interpreters, etc. Moreover, thousands of Afghans have been sent to Soviet Central Asia as students, technicians, military personnel, and political delegates.
 In part because of this mingling of Soviet and Afghan Muslims, the new spirit of the Afghan Jihad is slowly but steadily spreading into Soviet Muslim terrritories. The war in Afghanistan is followed with an intense and passionate interest by nearly all Muslins in Central Asia, in the last two years, strong evidence, unreported in the world press, has emerged of a number of acts of solidarity between Central Asian Muslims and the Afghan resistance.
 After seven years of war, the effect the Afghan resistance is having on Central Asian Muslims may be summed up by what a Central Asian Intellecctual told me last.year while visiting Western Europe. This man. a hlgh-rinking Communist Party member, said, "The resistance of the Afghans is for us the first gleam of hope since the Russian conquest." The Red Army, presented by official propaganda as the beat in the world.laving cible and unconquerable. Is in fact unable. Inspite of Its crushi ng techni cal supr iori ty, to overcome the determined re-slstanceof poorly armed bandit of Mujahideen. The Russian soldier looks like a poor fighter; the officers seem worthless* the high command inept. The Impact of the stalemate in Afghanistan is. without exageration.comparable to the impact that the defeat of Russian armies in Manchuria in 1905 had on Polish, Finnish, Caucasian, and Tatar national-1iberation movements .
 Because of the successes of the Afghan resistance, Islam--which Soviet propaganda has portrayed as an out-dated medieval relic--now appears to be younger and more dynamic than aging, dusty, and bureaucratic Marxism Leninism. Tor the first time since the October Revolution,. Central Asian Muslims have rediscovered the Muslim wnmah. the "community of believers."
 They have discovered a new sense of kinship with the Afghans and, through them width the entire Muslim world.