
ws
 Published fortnightly by Jami’at Islami Afghanistan
Vol 5, No 16 &17
September 1, 1989
Islamic court to try Jamal, his men for Farkhar massacre
Najib's bodyguard defects to Mujahideen
     General Mohammad Zarif Farooq who was responsible for the physical protection of Najibullah and his polit-buro members has defected to the Mujahideen.
     In a press conference organized by the Afghan Interim Government on August 20, the regime's General said that he was the head of the Government Security Department a subsidiary of WAD (the Ministry Secret Police of the Regime).
     According to General Farooq his department had 3,000 men who provided physical protection for high-ranking regime officers including the president.
     He disclosed that members of the Khalq faction of the regime did not trust his department. They arranged for their own security.
     General Farooq revealed that two Soviet security officers provided protection for Najibullah even after the withdrawal of Soviet troops.
     Farooq who became a member of the Parcham faction three years ago said that he found the policies of Najibullah against the interest of the Afghans and this was the reason for his defection.
     He left Kabul with his family under the pretext of medical treatment abroad.
                                                    Seminar to discuss Afghanistan
     The second seminar on Afghanistan will open in Tehran on October 2.
     The two-day seminar is sponsored by the foreign ministry of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
     Dr. Ebrahim Behnam visited Pakistan at the head of a delegation to extend an invitation to different Afghan parties to participate in the seminar.
      It is expected that in addition to Afghan and Iranian scholars, scholars from other countries will also attend the seminar.
     Sayed Jamal under the command of whom the Farkahr massacre of Jami'at commanders was carried out was arrested by the Mujahideen from Jami’at on August 18 and was handed over to the judicial authorities of the Supervisory Council.
     Jamal's arrest and a large number of his followers who had participated in the massacre happened after some minor armed clashes which continued for few hours.
     The demoralized friends of Sayed Jamal abandoned him and the civilian population in the area refused to support him.
     Search operations for the arrest of Sayed Jamal and a few of his top friends who had hidden themselves continued for one week.
     Contrary to the claims of Hezb the operation which led to the arrest of Sayed Jamal had few casualties among the Mujahideen on both sides and the civilian population suffered no casualties.
     Jami'at forces who participated in the operation acted in a disciplined way. No personnel revenge was taken.
     Prisoners were treated well. They were provided with food, water and medical assistance. This behavior was admired by the local people, foreign journalists and members of other Mujahideen parties in the area.
     The prisoners whose number were about 100 were delivered to the judicial authorities of the council for interrogation.
     After Jamal's arrest the Takhar-Badakhshan road was opened. When Jamal controlled Tangi Farkhar trucks could only pass after giving 10,000 Afghanis to his men. The city of Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takhar resumed its normal activities.
     Taloqan is the biggest city which
 the Mujahideen control. To the surprise of the people, radios quoting Hezb authorities in Peshawar reported that Jamal and his friends were arrested by government troops and handed over to Masood. All those in the area knew that there was no government presence in that area.
     After Jamal's arrest a large number of people filed petitions against Jamal and his men accusing them of killing their relatives taking their property and other misconducts. The petitions will be given to the judicial delegation sent by the AIG.
     Commander Masood met with commanders from Jami’at and other Islamic parties in the city of Taloqan to discuss with them the issue of reorganizing the city and launching military operations against the regime.
     All the commanders authorized the Council to re-organize the city. This was necessary because in the past the city which was liberated was relatively unsafe due to the presence of a large number of armed groups belonging to different parties. Fortunately the city of Taloqan had escaped destruction during the fighting which led to its liberation last year.
     Meanwhile some bands who looted people property and created fear in the city were also arrested. These bands who were disguised as Mujahideen actually were regime agents who wanted to defame the Mujahideen. Habib Chereek and Shiro's deputy who led these criminal bands were arrested and delivered to the judicial authorities to try them.
     To defuse the tension Masood sent a delegation to Hezb commanders in the neighboring areas to assure them that the operation against Jamal was not directed against any other commander of Hezb.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page @
 Badakhshan province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at captured Zibak garrison and its 25 posts cm August 9.
    The attack was carried out under the command of Sayed Najmuddin, Jami'at commander in Wardooj and Jurm valleys.
    Hie Mujahideen captured 340 soldiers and 18 officers including the Deputy Director of WAD in Badakhshan.
    The following weapons fell into the hand of the Mujahideen:
    1- PK machine guns        18
    2- ZPU machine guns        3
    3- 82mm mortars            3
    4-  Gronov machine guns    3
    5-  Light weapons        708
    6-  76mm gun               1
    7-  RPG-9 rocket launchers 3
    8-  ASG-17 grenade launchers 8
    9-  DSchK machine gun      1
    10 Wireless sets          11
    11- A large quantity of light and
 heavy weapons ammunition, and food.
    The enemy lost 76 meii and 31 enemy soldiers were wounded. The Six Mujahideen were killed and 12 were wounded.
    After the liberation of Zibak, the Mujahideen captured two enemy posts in Bazgiran and Khooshbak close to bonier town of Eshkashem.
    From these posts two mortars, two Gronov machine guns, three wireless sets and some light weapons and am munition were captured
     It is reported that the Mujahideen made use Of captured tanks against the enemy positions in Zibak.
     While the Mujahideen were busy fighting the regime in Eshkashim, a group affiliated with Hezb (Hikmatyar i attacked Baharak district, the headquarters of Sayed NajmudduL
     Sayed Najmuddin was forced to stop fighting in Eshkashim to defend Baharak. Regime forces which were
 supported by Soviet long-range artillery and air force were able to recaptured the strategic sub-district of Zibak.
     Zibak is located on the road connecting the Pakistan border with Faizabad
    By the liberation of Zibak the Mujahideen could have a short supply road useable by vehicle.
    Treachery from within, deprived the Mujahideen of a major victory.
                                                  Kabul province
    The Mujahideen form Jami'at under the command of Mohammad Anwar attacked enemy posts near Tangi Abrishomi on the Kabul-Jalalabad road on August 9.
    The enemy posts which were protected by land mines resisted well. The next day Mujahideen were able to bring a section of die road under their control. The regime air force bombed the suspected positions of the Mujahideen along the road and in Jegdalek 80 times in one day.
    On August 11, the enemy abandoned some of its posts while the remaining posts of the enemy continued to resist Aerial bombing of the positions of the Mujahideen continued.
    On August 12, the Mujahideen captured Tangi Abrishomi post after de stroying one tank and tuck and capturing one duck. Three Mujahideen were injured.
    On August 14, the Mujahideen captured a duck loaded with BM-27 rockets. Since die Mujahideen could not take them away they were set on fire.
     Our reporter adds that lack of coordination between the Mujahideen of different parties along the road, landmines and extensive aerial bombardments made the job of blocking the road for long periods of time difficult-
                                                  Farah province
             '
     Thirteen Mujahideen and a French
 aid worker were killed and two Mujahideen and one aid worker were captured when their convoy on the way to Herat was ambushed in Systan area of Farah by regime forces on August 14.
    In the fighting a regime officer and an unknown number of soldiers were also killed. The two French aid workers were carrying artificial limbs for the amputated Mujahideen in Herat.
                                                  Herat province
    The Mujahideen from Jami'at attacked Herat airport with 122mm rockets on August 3.
    Four Helicopters were destroyed on the ground and more than 30 airmen and soldiers were either killed or wounded.
    One enemy tank was destroyed and three soldiers were killed when their tank hit a landmine, planted by the Mujahideen on July 27.
    One plane was destroyed and six people were killed when the Mujahideen attacked Herat airport with rockets on August 7. The airport terminal and other buildings were hit and one tank and one track were set on fire.
    Abdurrahman Ghory, a militia commander, joined Khawja Zabiullah along with his ten followers. He handed over 10 Kalashnikov rifles and one truck to the Mujahideen.
                                                 Badghis province
    One enemy transport plane and one helicopter were shot down by the Mujahideen near Qala-i-Naw, die provincial capital of Badghis on August
 13.
    The transport plane of Antonove type crashed two kilometers from Qala-i-New while the helicopter was shot down in Aab Kazy area, 30 kilometers from the town.
    Ghulam Yahya, a militia commander joined the Mujahideen in Qala i-Naw with more than 100 of his followers.
    Oruzgan province
    Fighting for the control of Tereenkot, the provincial capital has continued between the Mujahideen and the communist forces.
     Regime air force bombed the Mujahideen position as a result of which 40 people were killed and 20 injured in mid August.
     The Mujahideen destroyed six posts killing 20 soldiers.
AFGHANews Vol5, Nol6&17, September 1,1989, page©
 Who is who in the Mujahideen
      Commander Muslim describes his experience in Jehad
     My name is Muslim and I was bom 26 years ago in Jangalak, a village in Bazarak of Panjshir
     I studied primary school in Paktia, Herat and Kabul, where my father,
Colonel Naik Mohammad, served in ■ were burned and 80 communist solders
 Mohammad Azim had planned an attack against the regime forces in Sareecha (a hill in Bazarak). He asked me to participate in the attack and I accepted the offer. In this successful attack eight tanks
 the Afghan army. After completing secondary school in Qala-e-Fatullah Khan in Kabul, I enrolled in the military high school . In 1979 I was expelled from the 11th grade of the military school for political reasons.
     1 joined Ansary high school in Kabul and was twice jailed during the same year, once for 25 day and the next time for 24 hours.
     1 was suspected of being in contact with the Mujahideen. I had gone to Panjshir once in 1979 and was taught urban warfare tactics by Commander Masood.
     In April of 1980, I went to Panjshir. I was trained in military tactics for one month in Parandeh side-valley. Later, I worked in the Cultural Committee of the Mujahideen.
     During the second offensive I went to Peshawar along with Masood's family. I and Masood are relatives and come from the same village.
     I enrolled in the Military Academy of Jami'at and completed it in seven months. In December of 1981,1 was among a group of the graduates of the Academy who returned to Panjshir.
     I became in charge of a ZPU (antiaircraft gun of 14.6 mm caliber) in Parandeh valley. On those days Panjshir was heavily bombed and Parandeh where most of the Mnjhaideen committees were established was the main target of the enemy attacks.
     In February 1982, Masood organized special classes for the graduates of Jami'at Military Academy. Masood taught the students different political and military subjects to make them ready for assumption of new responsibilities. They were assigned to teach military tactics -to the Mujahideen of different areas. I was given the job training of a group of Mujahideen from Laghman province in Khench, a village in the upper part of the valley.
     During the sixth offensive against Panjshir in 1982,1 was put in charge of a mortar. For three months I attacked the enemy bases in Jangalak, Astana and Rahman Khail (three villages in Panjshir).
     In the same year Commander
 were captured. I also participated in many other operations in the area.
     I participated in the first meeting of the Supervisory Council of the North in Sharshar of Eshkamish district.
     In 1983, a cease-fire agreement was signed with the Soviets in Panjshir. Masood wanted to make use of the time to create more bases in the North. 1 was sent to the North to help in teaching and organizing Jami'at groups. I remained there for two years.
     On April 15,1984, I was summoned by Commander Masood to Panjshir. The seventh offensive was supposed to start in five days. Most of the Mujahideen evacuated the valley. I and a small group of the Mujahideen stayed behind in Parandeh to do some specific jobs. Our group mined all the possible crossing points of the enemy.
     In the early morning of April 21, a squadron of Tu-16 high altitude bombers which flew from Soviet territory bombed the valley heavily. The next day bombing continued. The enemy landed troops in all the neighboring valleys of Panjshir. The purpose was to cut Panjshir from all directions. Two days lata:, the Soviet armored units arrived. In Parandeh valley there were 24 Mujahideen and civilians at the time of the attack.
     I and my four friends had hid in the upper part of the valley without suffi-
 cient food and no contacts with the outside world.
    After twenty days a group of the Mujahideen under the command of Samai returned to Parandeh. They had clashed with the Soviet commandoes in Khost and Andarab and six Mujahideen had died in these clashes.
    When the group arrived we started military action against the enemy forces. We mined the road. The mines were planted in road sides and possible parking areas and maneuvering places of the Soviet tanks. The enemy lost many tanks.
    When the Soviets discovered our group they launched a major attack against us. After a clash the Mujahideen retreated. The retreat was not organized because the enemy fire power was too strong. Every one tried to save himself. ,
    I and five other Mujahideen using the cover of darkness crossed to the east side of the river and retreated to Dara valley. The Soviet commandoes followed our group. We climbed a mountain between Nejrab and Panjshir and the Soviet soldiers followed us. The distance between us and the enemy was close: We were tired and hungry. They wanted to capture us alive, and did not fire on us.
    We had reached about 300 meters below the peak and Soviets were about 60 meters behind us when we saw a man who was carrying a wounded child on his back. He was moving toward the peak very slowly and the Soviets
                                                                                                                   Turn to page (7 )
    mwm
llP^r^
     .....fcsSiSI
&#;;■: v
     Ill
 III
 AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page Q
                            Fighting key to peace in Afghanistan
   The Kabul regime's removal from power would paves the way for Afghans to exercise their right for self-determination and insure the return of peace in war-tom Afghanistan. Escalation of the war is the only way to achieve this aim.
   The people, both inside and outside Afghanistan, expected a quick fall of the regime after the Soviet troops withdrawal, but due to different political and military reasons the regime is still in Kabul
   The Mujahideen commanders believe that the factors that will lead to the fall of the regime still exist but the time that the process takes depends on the way the Mujahideen deal with the military and political aspects of the problem.
   Jami'at believes in the need for the re-organization of the Mujahideen forces so that they could deal with the new phase of the struggle. Moving from a defensive phase of die war to an offensive phase requires re-organization of forces and access to enough military supplies and economic means.
   Developments after the withdrawal of Soviets troops showed the need for such an organizational change in the rank of the resistance forces.
   The formation of the Islamic army which is on the priority list of the Supervisory Council is a step towards achieving this aim. Through hard work a relatively large force has been re-organized.
   The Supervisory Council had prepared to launch an offensive against the regime in a strategically important area when the tragedy of Farkhar in which some important figures of the Council were killed happened. The incident delayed the expected attack for sometime.
   Commander Masood, the head of the Supervisory Council, told Afghanews at the end of August that his forces were ready to launch an offensive attack of limited objectives against the regime.
   Why limited objectives? First of all the Mujahideen are new in these types of offensive attacks. They have to escalate the war slowly, correct their mistakes and build confidence in themselves and the people who support them.
   Secondly, an offensive requires vast amounts of military and hon-military resources which die Council do not have. During the current year the Supervisory Council was given no military assistance. This put further limits on the objectives of the expected offensive.
   American officials assure Afghans of continued assistance and this message reaches the Mujahideen and the ordinary people in Afghanistan through the radios but in fact no weapons and military supplies has been given to the Mujahideen of the Council during the current year.
   On the other hand the Soviets continue to supply their puppets through land and air.
   Despite all the difficulties the foundation for good work has been laid and in the future Afghans and their friends will be witness to important achievements by the Mujahideen.
   The Mujahideen and their leaders have an important role to play
                                                                                             Turn to page (6)
   Scaring
  reporters
     harms
      Jehad
   Engineer »Gulbuddin Hikmatyar has told his commanders to block the entry of foreign journalists and aid workers whom he accuses of espionage and creating rifts between Mujahideen groups.
   Hikmatyar made die announcement as the foreign minister of AIG (Afghan Interim Government) a few days before he suspended membership of his party from the government
   Hikmatyar's latest reaction against the foreign journalists came when the press was reporting the tragedy of Farkhar for which Hezb Mujahideen woe responsible.
   He used the western news media to project his side of the story but the critical tone of the press made Hikmatyar angry.
   Some time ago he told a BBC re-porter that whether Hezh will he in power in Kabul or not, he will not allow the BBC to have activities in free Afghanistan.
   Despite this announcement he and his party officers have made interviews with BBC, especially-in connection with the Faricahr incident.
   Other Mujahideen parties in the Interim Government do not share Hikmatyar's views on the so-called destructive role of the foreign journalists and aid workers.
   Hikmatyar's party has taken some of the foreing journalist to Afghanistan to cover Hezb activities in the past.
   Maulawi Younus Khalis, the Interior Minister of AIG said to the reporters in Peshawar that the behavior of Hikmatyar towards the foreign journalists is strange. "His party has taken a large number of them to Afghanistan in the past They were not spies in the past. Why are they called spies now?", Maulawi Khalis asked.
   Mujahideen belonging to other parties think that Hikmatyar's branding of foreign journalists and aid workers as spies will have negative effect on covering of the war from the Mujahideen side. While the Kabul regime provides facilities for foreign journalists scaring a few journalists who travel with the Mujahideen will harm the cause and gives the enemy an upper hand in the propaganda war.
 --------------- AFGHANews Vol 5, Nol6 &17, September 1,1989, page
 From the Diary of Jehad                  Part (1)
   In the land of venison, trout and mines
                           By: Mohammad EsTiaq
     It was about one year since I had visited Afghanistan. Soviet troop withdrawal and stalemate situation in the battlefield had created many questions which needed to be answered. The Farkhar massacre of Jami'at commanders was also depressing news for me and all those who wanted to see Afghanistan free.
     It was time to leave behind the confused political scene in Peshawar and renew contacts with the fighters and try to answer some of the questions about the present and future of the struggle of our people for freedom.
     I and a friend of mine started our journey from Shah Salim, the last village on the Chitral side of the border in the morning of August 11. We had to cross the famous Toop Khana Pass (known as Doora Pass in travel books). We drove in a pick up half of the pass on a newly-built road. This road is being built by the Mujahideen to be used as a supply route to the North. We climbed the rest of the pass on horse back, this is the easiest pass from Northern Afghanistan to Pakistan which has been used by merchant for centuries. The road came under the control of the Mujahideen in 1979 when the government posts in Keran, Toop Khana and Zibak fell to the Mujahideen. It was blocked in 1980 when the Soviets established a post in Toop Khana and later in Zibak and Keran.
     The road became open to the Mujahideen last spring after the Soviet troops left the Toop Khana,post Keran garrison was captured by the Mujahideen at the end of 1987.
     Through Toop Khana one can reach Panjshir in four days. It took 14 days through the old road which passed the nigged terrain of Nooristan to cover the same distance. Toop Khana pass opens earlier and closes later than the Nooristan passes. -
     At the foot of the pass, inside Afghanistan, there are two beautiful natural lakes. Trout can be found hoe. The mountains in the area have plenty of deer. Teahouse owners along the road hum these animals to feed their customers. Since these people hunt to make money and use automatic rifles they kill too many of diem. If restrictions are not imposed on them by
 Jami'at no deer will survive.
     After having lunch in one of the tea houses halfway between the two lakes and walking for two hours we reached Toop Khana at the junction of two rivers. This was the place where the Soviets had established a post to block the road for ten years. The area was hill of anti-personnel mines of different types; People were crossing the area with care and they confined their movement to a narrow lane cleared of mines.
     This was the third time that I had visited Toop Khana. In 1979,1 went to Badakhshan to take photographs for Jami'at publications. At that time the Mujahideen had liberated Zibak, Juim and Baharak and they were fighting to capture Faizabad. After crossing Sangleech and Eskatool villages we reached Zibak sub-district I also visited the Mujahideen positions close to Eshkashim, a border town.
     Zibak and surrounding villages are inhibited by the Ismailia sect. Ismailias were sympathetic to the communist regime of Taraki. When the Mujahideen liberated the area a lot of them escaped to Eshkashim which was controlled by the regime.
     Russian activities in Zibak area had started before their invasion in December 1979. When I was photographing the Mujahideen in Bazgir about 12 kilometers from the Soviet bender one month before the Soviet invasion, Soviet helicopters crossed die border and flew over the Mujahideen positions for reconnasence purposes.
     The second time which I crossed Toop Khana was in the spring of 1980. I was, on my way to Panjshir. Two weeks later the Soviets blocked the road.
     We spend the night in a teahouse along the road which saved us venison. Near Munjan bridge I saw Abdullah Ezam, an Arab scholar who had gone on a fact-finding mission to Takhar after the tragic incident in Farkhar. He was accompanying Gulbuddin Hikmatyar during his visit to the North of Kabul when die tragedy in Farkhar happened. He went to Takhar to discover the facts. I told his companion, Abdullah Anas who is also his son-in-law about a letter distributed by Hezb allegedly written by some Arabs in which Masood was branded as anon-Islamic figure. Abdullah Anas showed
 his disapproval 'Of the letter. After returning to Peshawar, 1 saw a letter published by Abdullah Ezam contradicting the content of the letter distributed by Hezb. When I reached Farkhar, friends told me that the Arab scholar had stayed in the area for some days and talked to the survivors of the massacre. The Arab scholar who know Sayyed Jamal personally was very disappointed by his action and give him the title of Jamal Rushdi to compare his work with those of the writer of the Satatnic Verses.'
     Keran was green but without fruit. A local resident told me that due to cold weather and a late snow fall there was no fruit in the valley., When we reached Takhar we found that the long winter had deprived the people of that province from their annual fruit too.
     All along the road big caravans of donkeys and horses were heading towards the border to transport goods belonging to the Supervisory Council. There woe little to transport. The limited amount of goods they carried were left over from the last year. This year the Council was given nothing and most of the horses returned home empty. I saw a young man from Farkhar who was crying for not having anything to transport He was worried how he could return home empty-handed after a long journey.
     The incident showed a clear contradiction between the realities on the ground and what is fed to the people of Afghanistan by their international supporters through radios and newspapers. American officials are talking about continued support to the Mujahideen. That country also expects the Mujahideen to defeat the Kabul regime within months. In practice no weapons and ammunition has been given to the Supervisory Council during the current crucial year. Other fronts also complain about lack of assistance.
     After three days of walking and crossing two passes we reached the upper part of Worsaj. My hose which 1 had borrowed from the Mujahideen of Mazar was a great help during the journey.
     At noon on the forth day we reached Piew, a village in upper Worsaj. The road built by the Council has reached Piew. The road is mainly used by Council jeeps and trucks. Two years ago this stretch of 27 Kilometers of road did not exist.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1,1989, page ©
 Glimpses into the historic background of Part (9)
  The Islamic Movement in Afghanistan
     Jabha-i-Milli Nijat-i-Afghanistan (National Front for the Salvation of Afghanistan) was formed to unite all Afghan groups and personalities against the communists.
     This was possible by informing the people about what had happened and was happening in their country, by encouraging them to rise against the regime with available resources and by seeking the political and financial support of the Islamic countries to support the people's uprising.
     In die previous part, I discussed some of the things which were considered in Jabha’s Executive Council.
     In order to bring other Afghan groups into Jabha the Central Committee of Jabha formed a committee on February 27, 1979 to work for die achievement of this aim.
     Three parties, Hezb Islami, Harakat Mohammadi and Mahaz Milli (Sayed Ahmad Gailani) had not participated in Jabha.
     The committee had three members: Mohammad Musa Tawana, Naqibullah Sahibzada, and Kifayatullah.
     The first thing that the committee did, was to meet with Mufti Mahmoud, the president of Jami’atul Ulama-i-Pakistan. He was interested to see the Mujahideen united.
     The committee members met with Mufti Mahmoud twice, once in Ghazni Khail village Bannu district, N.W.F.P and the next time in the headquarters of his party in Lahore.
     In the second meedng Maulawi Nabi Mohammadi who had close ties with Mufti Mahmoud's party was also present. We discussed the issue of joining Harakat to Jabha but talks did not make progress because Mufti Mahmoud was suspicious of our close ties with Jamaat Islami of Pakistan (Maulana Maududi). Our attempts to tell him that we respected him and his party did not succeed. He seemed worried about the future of Harakat after joining Jabha and was afraid that the leadership of Harakat would fall in the hands of someone else other than Maulawi Nabi. We finished the meeting with a hope to meet again but did not meet him because he died (May Allah grant him peace) and we.did not meet with any of his party leader to discuss the issue with them.
                                                                                                           . One of the important decisions that was made by die Central Council of
    BY: Dr. Tawana
 Jabha was a call for a general uprising against the communist regime. This decision was made on March 4,1979.
    Anti-government groups had been formed but a general uprising had not taken place. We thought that a general uprising was the only way of toppling the communist regime.
    The committee appointed the date of the uprising March 12,1979. At that time all Afghans were supposed to rise against the communists with what was available so that the people rid themselves of the communist regime.
    We did not have any weapons in Peshawar. We bought some old weapons and ammunition and distributed them among the Mujahideen along the borders with Pakistan.
    We did not have cash to buy the weapons and ammunitions we got them on credit. We hoped that the money would be paid later when donation collected by Afghan friends in Saudi Arabia was sent We did not receive the donations because it was sent to a host party to be given to the Mujahideen. It give it to the parties who were not cooperating with Jabha in its military efforts.
    Jabha was deprived of these donations and this caused the relation between Jabha and that host party to become sour.
    Some ex-officers who had defected to the Mujahideen were appointed assistants to the local commanders to help them in the general uprising but the authority rested with the local commanders. The plan was carried in Ningarhar, Paktia, Perwan Kapisa and Kabul which were not far from the bolder.
    On March 11,1979, Jabha issued a letter, in Pushtu and Persian, asking the . Afghan nation to raise against the red colonialism and its Afghan surrogates. The letter had asked other parties to direct their followers to help us in the big task that we had started. But, they did not help and confined themselves to minor actions.
    In the last session of Jabha's Central Committee held on March 21, 1979, a Supervisory Committee which was headed by Dr. Zabihullah Mujaddidi was formed.
    The purpose of setting up the committee was to supervise management work and correct some of the misconducts which was taking place.
    Before convening the above meeting relations between Jami'at and Prof. Mujaddidi the head of Jabha had cooled. Jami'at, without any formal announcement was distancing itself from Jabha. Finally formal separation took place and Jabha became a separate party undo: the leadership of Prof. Mujaddidi.
    Note: The series of articles under the name of glimpses into the Islamic Movement, in Afghanistan written by Dr. Tawana was a translation of a series of articles published in an Arabic magazine of Al-Mujakidoon publish by Jami'at. Although the story of the movement is not finished the translation of the. published articles are completed. Our readers should not expect the remaining parts in the near future. We hope to complete the rest of the story in the future.
                                                   From page (4)
 in making these military operations successful. The Mujahideen in the battlefields must cooperate with each other. The Interim Government and the Mujahideen leaders should not waste their time discussing secondary issues. They must support the military efforts of the commanders inside the country.
    Once the Mujahideen have taken the military initiative in hand and have rebuilt the confidence of the people about their inevitable victory the way for a political solution to the problem can also open.
    With a proper military strategy, re-organization of forces, cooperation among different groups and necessary resources .the Mujahideen can take steps in the way of ending the rule of the Soviet-imposed regime in Kabul
    You will read
    An interview with Com. Ahmad Shah Masood will be published in the comming issue of Afghanews. He will throw light on the military and political situations in Afghanistan. The Inerview was made in Taloqan, the provincial capital of Takahr, in the last week of August.
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1,1989, page©
           Commander Muslim's Experience in Jehad
                    From page (3)
 were close to him. Despite all the tiredness and hunger we gathered our strength and fired on the Soviets. They took cover and the man found the time to distance himself from them.
     The man was Sofi Abdul Faqir whose wife, sister, mother and children were killed by the Soviet soldiers and his 5-year old son was injured in the leg. He was carrying his wounded son on his back.
     Later in the afternoon four Soviet helicopters appeared and started to circle over the place we had hidden. They dropped 16 bombs on us which exploded some meters away from us. One of our Mujahideen was wounded and I was deafened by a close explosion.
     We walked all night and reached Hesarak valley. Lieutenant Shir Ahmad, a Mujahid from Hesarak and a friend of mine gave us food and shelter. We washed our clothes and started to feel better.
     Tahir, a Mujahid from Dara who was captured by the Soviets and later managed to escape said that four Soviet soldiers committed suicide on the mountain top because they could not carry heavy loads at a high altitude and their commanders were rude to them.
     Soviets attacked Hesarak. We crossed the mountain and reached Bolaghain (in Shemali), from there went to Kohistan and stayed a few days with Commander Shaheen.
     I learned in Kohistan that my brother who was a pilot of Su-22 jet had been killed some days before when his plane crashed due to technical problems.
     Divers helped us cross the Panjshir river but one of our guns fell into the river and was lost
     At the other bank of the river, our group which by then numbered 30 men was ambushed by the Mujahideen from Hezb Islami (Hikmatyar group). Two of our Mujahideen were injured. They took our arms and imprisoned us. Later when they realized that we did not have any bad intentions against them, released us and returned our guns but five guns were missing.
     I spent the Holy month of Ramazan in Gulbahar. My family who lived in Kabul came to see me. 1 went to Salang to meet Commander Pana. He encouraged me to go back to Parandeh because the situation there was very bad.
     1 learned that Commander Abdul Wahid (who had an aritificial leg) was captured by the Soviets, 20 Mujahideen from Parandeh had defected to the enemy and two elders of Parandeh were sent by the Soviets to Parandeh to persuade the rest of the Mujahideen to surrender. The two men were captured and tried by the Mujahideen.
     After returning to Parandeh we established our base in Malaspa gorge.
 We resumed mining the road. We improvised mines from D-30 artillery shells. These improvised mines proved very useful. In one incident in Jangalak, three Soviet officers and 30 soldiers were killed by one of these mines.
 Several enemy convoys were ambushed and destroyed. We captured food from the enemy and the morale of our group rose.
     Intelligence sources reported to Masood that the enemy had lost 400 tanks and trucks during six months in the Malaspa area. I estimated the number to be 500 tanks and trucks. There are the remains of 200 tanks and trucks of the enemy in Malaspa.
     I participated in the annual meeting of the Council of the North held in Khailab in winter of 1985.
     Masood appointed me a teacher of the newly-formed Central Forces. Later he appointed me the commander of one of its units.
     In 1986, I and Amanullah Hashimi, who was killed later, went to Fjirkharrhe Salang operation was launched
 Farkhar garrison. This was ah important victory which set the stage for further victories of the SCN in the war against the enemy garrisons.
     I also participated in fighting against the enemy garrison in Nahrin. I worked as the deputy of commander Pana. The Mujahideen captured part of the garrison on the first day of fighting. From 24 people in my group, 12 were killed and 12 injured. They were killed by shells fired from an enemy tank. The next day the Mujahideen captured the whole garrison.
     In fighting for the capture of Kalafgan in 1987, I was in charge of the communication network.
     A few weeks after the Kalafgan operation, I was send to Salang at the head of group of fighters. The follow ing tasks were given to us:
     1.     Firing at oil-tankers, going from the Soviet border to Kabul.
     2.     Planting time-bombs in Soviet supply convoys.
     3.     Cutting the pipeline carrying fuel to Bagram air base.
     4. Searching buses and trucks.
     5. Mining the road
     6. Hunting Soviet soldiers.
     I remained 40 days in Salang. Because of our operation 70 tanks and trucks of the enemy were set on fire. A Soviet post along the highway collaborated with us and in some cases provided cover fire for us.
     A group of young Mujahideen were used to plant time bombs in the enemy convoys. These young Mujahideen could go to the road without being suspected of having a connection with the Mujahideen.
to collect information about the enemy garrison there. A few days later, I was summoned to Khailab. The area had been heavily bombed for ten days. Three days after my arrival 300 jet and helicopters of the enemy attacked Khailab valley. In the operation seven helicopters and four jets of the enemy were shot down. Some of the helicopters were destroyed by RPG fire. A considerable number of Soviet troop and the commander of the Soviet forces were killed. The Soviet made use of 152mm artillery against the Mujahideen. Forty civilians and four Mujahideen were killed and seven Mujahideen were wounded. The Soviets retreated after mining the area. Their operation lasted one week. Fifty civilians and 100 animals were killed by the Soviet landmines.
     The Farkhar operation was launched participated in the attack under the command of Pana. The Mujahideen captured
to divert the enemy attention from the operation against Kuran-o-Munjah. This tactic proved useful and the Kuran garrison was captured in a surprise attack.
    In winter of 1987,1 and five other Mujahideen were travelling on jeep in the Eshkamesh area when a group of Hezb (Hikmatyar group) ambushed us. We were taken prisoner. They took our guns, money and watches. We remained in their custody for one week. An Arab brother, Marzooq Aljazairi, went to the Hezb commander, Hakimi, and pleaded for our release. They released us but did not return our guns. The Arab friend paid 360,000 Afghani ($1500) and bought my gun and gave it to me.
    In February 1988, I went to Farkhar to help in the training of 500 officers of the Islamic army. I was re 'Sponsible for the training program which lasted for three months.
                                                          ***
AFGHANews Vol 5, No 16 & 17, September 1, 1989, page ©
             Famine threatens, disease kills people in Ghoor
By: Abu Pana
     I and a friend of mine were sent by relief organization to Ghoor province to survey the conditions of health clinics there.
     We started our journey from Quetta on June 5. It took us five days to reach Ghoor. On our way we passed through provinces of Kandahar and Helm and.
     The Kabul regime controls part of Chekhcheran, the provincial capital and Shahrak district. The rest of province is controlled by the Mujahideen.
     The Jami'at commander in Chekhcheran is Maulawi Musa. Since he is a religious scholar and a good fighter, he is respected by all the Mujahideen in the area.
     A Harakat-i-lnqilab commander Ibrahim Baig had established secret contacts with the regime. The Mujahideen from all partied raised against him. He was forced to openly join the regime and establish posts in Ghook, Kamanj and Jelgy Mazar.
     The Mujahideen fought against lim for 15 days. Some of his men with 225 guns were captured the rest retreated to Jawain sub-district of Badghis which is in control of the Kabul regime.
     Ghoor is a mountainous province with cold weather. The land is less fertile and the people are very poor.
     When we were in the area measles and whooping cough were killing a large number of children. In each village from 20 to 30 children had died and we were a witness to the tragedy. There was no vaccination facilities in the province. The four clinics in Ghoor were ill-equipped and manned by paramedics who had been trained in Peshawar for a few months.
      Last winter’s harsh climate killed most of the cattle and some children.
      In laal-Wa-Sar Jangal district which is controlled by Nasre and Sepah (two Iran-based parties) the situation was better. There was a hospital founded by a French organization.
      Ordinary people in Ghoor could not find sugar and rice. Only commanders possessed these two luxury items. Most of the people could not tight lamps due to fuel shortages. Captured trucks and jeeps were facing the same problem.
      Elders told us the only person who had helped them once iii their lives was Zahir Shah. "During the famine of 1970, Zahir Shah’s regime gave 21 ki-
 lograms of wheat per family . After that no ruler and no Mujahideen leader has done anything to us", they said.
     The price of food was very high . Four kilograms of wheat was sold for 700 Afghanis.
     People sold their cattle and walked one week to bring food from Takhl area in Herat province. Every body in Ghoor complained about shortages of food. They expected the Mujahideen leaders to relieve their pain by helping them.
     Madrasas (religious Schools) were open in different parts of Ghoor in which religious scholar tought students. There was no ordinary school for children. The reason is deep suspicion by the local religious Ulama about schools. They had seen how the communist regime used school against Islam.
     Laal-Wa-Sar Sangal district is an exception. Schools are opened for both boys and girls.
     In Ghoor there are six parties: Jami'at, Mahaz Milli (Pir Gailani), Hezb Islam i (Hikmatyar), Harakat Inqilab Islami, Itihad Islami (Prof. Sayyaf) and Jabha (Prof. Mujaddidi). Jami'at is the dominating force in the province.
     Historic sites could be seen In most parts of Ghoor. The famous Jam Minarets are located on the banks of Hari Rood river in Shahrak district.
                                              Famous NIFA commander poisoned
     Haji Latif, famous NIFA commander in Kandahar, was poisoned to death by WAD (regime secret police) agents on August 7.
     Haji Latif, 76, led the Mujahideen in the war against the Russians and the communist regime since the start of the Soviet invasion. His base in Malajat served as a stronghold of die resistance.
     Haji Latif was a popular figure and was liked by the Mujahideen from different parties.
     The two WAD agents who poi soned Haji Latif were caught and executed.
     Haji Latif s death was a great loss to the Mujahideen in Kandahar. Haji Latif died but his Mujahideen will con tinue Jehad under the command of his son.
  400 bodies found in mass grave in Bamyan
    More than 400 bodies, buried in a ditch by the Taraki-Amin Communist Regime 10 years ago after a massacre, were discovered in Bamyan province recently, Haraket-e-Islami's representative, Abdul Hassan Rizwani, told AMRC.
    Rizwani, said that the bodies were discovered in the first week of July when Ayatullah Mohsini, the leader of Haraket-e-Islami, in a recent visit to Bamyan, asked the residents to show the Mujahideen the bodies of massacred people so that they could be buried according to Shariah.
    The Mujahideen searched the area and in a ditch near the airport about 40Q bodies were discovered. The search for 600 more is under way.
     Once all the bodies are found they will be buried in a graveyard especially marked for the martyrs, Rizwani said.
     Rizwani, who was one of the eyewitness of the massacre of May, 1979, narrated his story as following:
     "In April of 1979, a number of religious leaders and elders were arrested by the Taraki regime. The residents of Bamyan under 90-year- old Sayed Mahmoud Ali, know as Lam Lam, started an uprising against the communist regime of Taraki. They carried out their first attack on the regime center in which they captured 30 regime supporters and several weapons."
    "In the second attack for which the regime had made advance preparations a crowd of more than 2,000 people arrived near to the airport to attack it, they came under fire from the regime forces and about 1,000 people were killed or wounded and several hundred fled from the scene."
     Rizwani said that he was also among the attackers but managed to escape.
     He added that the regime allowec nobody to come close to the scene of the incident and after searching and tak ing away valuable items the regime buried the bodies with bulldozers and levelled the site of the buried bodies so that it could not be recognized.
     He invited human rights organizations to send their delegations to the area to see the bodies of the massacred people.