 or to travel for such a long distance for the maintenance of their families in this neighbouring state.
   Tlie Afghan refugees presently living in Pakistan have been forced to leave Afghanistan under the sheer stress of circumstances arisen from the Russian military intervention. These refugees before leaving their homeland had reasonably good living whether they were farmers, workers, businessmen or employees. The Russians intered Afghanistan with the empty slogans of shelter, bread, and cloth as well as land to the formers. But the Afghan Muslim nation completely ignored this offer from the Soviet expansionists. Instead the Muslim and freedom loving nation of Afghanistan for the protection of their faith, honour, religion, and dignity, declared Jehad against the intruders,and left their home and hearth for the cause of Almighty Allah and took
 refugee in Pakistan- on the basis of Islamic brotherhood, common history and tradition.
   It is an undeniable fact that if Pakistan had closed her borders on the face of the Afghan Muhajireen and would not have fulfilled her moral and Islamic obligations towards their neighbouring Muslim brothers, the security and intergrity of Pakistan itself would have been threatened by the aggressors and the Russians dream for dominating the Indian Ocean and the coastal states around it, would have come true.
   The Afghan Mujahideen are not only lighting for the liberation of Afghanistan but they defend the whole of Muslim Ummah particularly its neighbouring countries which is the next target of Soviet social emperialism.
                                                                                       The Afghan Muhajireen have left their home-land
not in search of bread and shelter, but for the protection of their faith and religion in accordance with the principles of Holy Quran. They would return to Afghanistan after reaching their goal of regaining the independence of Afghanistaa
   In an exclusive interview with “Liberation Front” Haz-rat Prof. Almujaddedi the leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front, in regard to the sabotage activities in Pakistan has said” These inhuman activities have been undertaken by the KGB agents and those who are in the active service of the Soviets and working for the puppet regime in Kabul, but not by the Afghan refugees. How it is possible for the Afghan Muhajireen to destroy their own shelter of refuge — Pakistan? In this respect I have talked to the concerned authorities of the Government of Pakistan and assured them that the Afghan Muhajireen to whome the Government of Pakistan has graciously provided shelter and the people of Pakistan reviewed the example of “Ansar” and accepted their Afghan brothem with open arms and shared their distress, would never commite such crimes of exploding bombs, killing their own Ansar brothers and destroying their own home of comfort. ”He said,
 Those who believe in Almighty Allah could never be defeated against the athiests.•
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
26