 Zia-ul-Haq, Government and the people of Pakistan for extending generous help to the Afghan refugees in their hour of distress.
    President General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, speaking on the occasion, advised the Afghan refugees to boldly, calmly and patiently face the problems as devout Muslims. “You are suffering for the last eight years but now time is not far away from solution to your crisis”, he said adding “your difficulties are about to end. You should continue to demonstrate same courage as in the past”.
    President Zia said that “100 million people of Pakistan pray daily for honourable solution to the Afghanistan crisis and an end to your suffering”. ^He added, the prayer of so many people would certainly be rewarded.
    He paid rich tributes to President Waldheim for bringing the Afghan crisis in the forefront of the world forum as the Secretary-General of the United Nations. He said Mr. Waldheim was the first person to invite the attention of the whole world to its seriousness.
    Earlier President Waldheim accompanied by President Zia-ul-Haq and Governor of NWFP on their arrival were accorded a warm welcome by the elders of the camp. Two children presented boyqets to President Waldheim., * The speeches of President Waldheim and President Zia were punctuated with slogans“Islam Zinabad”, “Pakistan Afghan
 Friendship Zindabad”, “President Zia Zindabad” and “President Waldheim Zindabad”.
                                             EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
                                               MEMBER DISCUSSED AFGHAN ISSUE
    A member of the European Parliament from West Germany, Dr. Hans-Gert Poetter-ing, called on the President, Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, at the Army House. Rawalpindi, on 19th October.
    Dr. Poettering, who is also the Chairman of the Sub-Committee of European Parliament on Security and Disarmament Affairs, informed the President that the Sub-Committee was currently engaged to examine a numbr of international issues including Afghan problem.
    He said that he came here again, on behalf of the subcommittee,, to study and discuss the Afghanistan situation.
    He also apprised the President of the efforts being made by European Economic Community' and Eusopean Parliament to achieve the objective of having a sovereign and • independent Afghanistan free of alien domination.
        I
    Mrs. Wurfel who is also the Chairperson of “Afghanistan NOTHILF (Emergency Help) briefed the President about the activities of her organisation.
                                             WEST GERMANY WILL CONTINUE HELP TO REFUGEES
   The Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany in Pakistan, Mr. Gerd Beren-denck, paid a courtesy call on the NWFP Governor, Mr. Fida Mohammad Khan, at Governor’s House on October 27.
   During the course of discussion, Mr. Berendenck informed the Governor about ' various developmental projects being run in health, forestry and other technical sectors with the cooperation of the Federal Republic of Germany in the NWFP. The Federal Republic of Germany, he said, had also established some income-generating units in various Afghan refugees tentage village in the NWFP to enable the refugees to earn their livelihood.
  TheFederal Republic of Germany would continue to extend every moral help to the Afghan refugees on humanitarian grounds till their return to their homeland with honour and dignity,he said.
LIBERATION FRONT
42
December; 1987