 LIBERATION FRONT__________________April, May-1990.
 EDITORIAL
Nauroze, the Afghanistan Day.
   Nauroze the first day of the Solar .HijraT _ Year corresponding 21 March is the'end of the winter and the beginning of the springy f in Afghanistan. Traditionally, this day,hh§ -always been celebrated by the Afghan Mujahid nation with enthusiastic pleasure . and colourful festivity. The weary and exhausted people after the extreme cold of the winter breath a sigh of relief, they visit and greet their neighbours, and .going out on picnics, send felicitations and presents to their relatives and friends who are away from them.
   The last Nauroze of this kind was celebrated cheerfully in free Afghanistan where every;JAfghan was the master of his own abode. But the installation of the communist regime after the Russian backed coup d‘etat of 1978 in Kabul and the subsequent Soviet military intervention substituted not only the delightful celebration of Nauroze for a gloomy situation, but completely changed the face of Afghanistan to a miserable and apprehensive scene. Since the Russian puppet regime has come to power in Afghanistan, the Russian tanks, helicopter gunships, and jet bombers, are roaring from the air and ground and the soldiers are marching in the streets, hence there is no security of person, property and honour for the Afghan Muslim nation.
   The Russian and Khalq Parcham infidels, after they seized the powjer, started their brutal ant/i-Islamic and antihumanitarian activities against the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. They used to inter the houses on the plea to search it, but they completely looted whatever they found in /
   the house. This was followed by the arrest
• '-of those who were not the members of
   ^Chalq-Parcham parties or supposed to '''■ agitate against the communist regime in ^Afghanistan. They were driven with masks on their faces, brutally tortured, killed and even burried alive. The bereaved families were denied the right to receive the bodies of their dead husbands, brothers and sons or to see those who have been arrested by the communist installed regime in different jails.
     The Russians invaders did not satisfy with such atrocities alone but further heavily bombarded and demolished the villages, towns and cities and also applied chemical weapons for the annihilation of the defenceless nation of Afghanistan. The people had no other alternative but to leave the country and lead homeless and miserable life of refuge in the neighbouring countries.
     Thus, after the coup of 1978 with the Russian invasion the environment in every Afghan family has been completely
* changed to an awful atmosphere and the day of Nauroze (New year) for Afghan is no more the day of nauroze. There is no such family inside and outside Afghanistan where condolence meeting has not been held and tears have not been shed in the memory of their imprisoned, missirg and dead relatives.
     In 1981, on the recommendation of the Presidential Council passed by the European Parliament on 18-19 Nov. 1981, in Strasbourge France that March 21, of every year corresponding to 1st day of Solar Hijra year is to be celebrated as the Af-
4