 for the Mujahidin never reach the fighting areas.
   Nevertheless, according to a number of reports, the aims situation improved during 1985 and resulted in greater Mujahidin capability against enemy ground and air attack. Thai was reflected in engagements throughout the country and particularly evident during the Paktia offensive, where the Mujahidin were able to maintain a fighting force of from 3000 to 5000 men in action. Among the weapons introduced in 1985 were Chinese 107-mm multirocket launchers and an improved SAM-7, and the Mujahidin antcipated that Swiss Oerlikon 20-mm connon and possibly British Blow-pipe portable missiles for air defense would he available this year, in 1986.
   After more than 7 years of war, Soviet control of Afghanistan is tar from complete. and the resistance continues to hold most of the country. But the Soviets increased viciousness is taking a toll as they escalate the terrorisation of the people. Since the war began, probably more than 200,000 Afghans have been killed and more than one-third of the population has been forced to flee to Pakistan, Iran, or the Afghan cities. Agricultural production is estimated to be less than 25' percent of prewar levels m some areas. There has been enumr. ours slaughter of livestock, and many surviving animals are in poor health. Food shortages
 have resulted in ‘‘very acute signs of severe societal stress.” and the famine in places have been compared to that in Ethiopia.
   The Soviets, too, have suffered losses, although far fewer than the Afghans, As many as as 60,000 have been killed or wounded in battle. Others were evacuated from Afghanistan because of disease. The estimated financial cost to the Soviets has exceeded S20 billion.
   U.S policy has consistently supported the U. N. resolutions for the withdrawal of Soviet forces, a non-aligned Afghanistan, the free return of the regugees, and the people’s Fight of SeJ'fidetenn mat ion in creating their own government Unfortunately, the Geneva rounds of indirect talks sponsored by the United Nations to achieve those objectives have been stymied by failure to reach agreement on a timetable for ,1 Soviet withdrawal.
   It generally is agreed that a critical challenge that the resistance faces^is to establish unified political and military leadership, since without it. the, efforts of both- fighters and supporters arc fragmented and resources wasted. Under the pressure from the foreign nations that support the resistance an alliance was 'formed in May 1985 of the seven major resistance polit ical parties, the “Islamic Unity of Mujahidin.” Allhough the alliance is loosely structured, it provides soipe coordination
for military operations and may ultimately bring the unity that i» imperative if the resistance is to. achieve the diplomatic legitimacy and influence necessary' for official international sanction and support. Late in 1985, the alliance began petitioning for representation in international bodies, including the United Nations and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, and it planned to establish offices around the world to assist in publicizing the Afghanistan situation.
   In any event, the war has long escalated beyond the stage in which an ill-equipped and tactically unprepared Mujahidin force can by itself force a Soviet withdrawal. Fortunately, that force is now better armed, organised, and professionally skilled than it was initially, and it can im -prove its position with more extensive military operations, including a more active campaign to disrupt urban life in Kabul and elsewhere. Never-tliless nations sympathetic to the plight of the Afghans must grapple with the fact that ext ensive foreign assistance -diplomatic and military - is essential to an active resistance movement and for an independent Afghanistan.
   Dr. George W. Collins is a professor of history at Wichita State University. Wichita, Kansas.
                                                  o
LIBERATION FRONT
14
DECEMBER, 1987