   The people oj Lahore fPakistan) demonstrating against the soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                  Worldwide Demonstration Against Soviet Invasion
  The Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan was commemorated on 27th December as black day, with demonstrations, condemnations, burning Soviet flags and the effigy of Gorbachev and slogans against the Soviets expansionist and its puppet regime of Kabul.
 The freedom loving people all over the world held demonstrations seriously condemning the Soviet for military intervention in Afghanistan, and supported the Afghan noble struggle for their freedom.
  PESHAWAR
   The seven party, Alliance of the Afghan Mujahideen organizations held a mammoth meeting,in Peshawar attended by a large number of Mujahi-
deen. Muhajreen and the Ansars and staged a grand rally condemning the Soviet military intervention and the stationing of 120,000 troops in Afghanistan. The leaders reiterated the demand for immediate unconditional and total withdrawal' of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
   They spoke about the suffering of the Afghan nation for the past 9 years and the genocide and atrocities -committed by Soviet troops in Afghanistan.
  . They rejected the socalled Loya Jirga and the making of the constitution and declared it as a ridiculous and shameful! act of the puppet regime of Najib.
  LAHORE
   The president General Mohammad Zia-ulHaq accom-
 panied by the Governor of PunjabMakhdoom Mohammad Saj i ad Hussain Qureshi and Chief Minister, Mian Nawaz Sharif inaugurated a photographic and painting exhibition depicting “Resistance movement of the Afghan freedom fighters" held at Al-Hamra Arts Council, Lahore on 26th December 1987 to commemorate the 8th anniversary of Russian invasion of Afghanistan.
   Speaking on the occasion the president expressed the hope that the people of Pakistan may celebrate the independence of Afghanistan in the City this very day next year.
  Also in Lahore a large number of people belonging to various parties took out a big procession on 27th December from Nasir Bagh to protest against the Russian military invasion of Afghanistan.
    The demonstrators including large number of women and children burnt an effigy of Gorbachev. The processionists were carry ing placards and banners inscribed with slogans. They also shouted slogans against soviet and the puppet regime of Kabul, and in favour of Afghan Mujahideen during the procession, which peacefully culminated at Masjid-i-Shuhada.
    The demonstration 'was organised by Pakistan Qaumi Muliaz, Jammat-i-Islarai, Tehrik Ansarul Muslameen. Islami Jamaat Wukla, Islami lnqlabi Mahaz, Media Forum,
DECEMBER, 1987
15
LIBERATION FRONT