DR. Z.M. KHALID
                                     ■
  Immigration to the West and its Repercussion
   Since 1742, Afghanistan had always a major role on the political arena of Asia. The triangle of Herat, Kandahar and Kabul had been always considered as the gate of the then British India, and now the Subcontinent. It was a nonaligned, Islamic state even from the time of the two World Wars. Prior to April 1978, she had kept friendly relations with almost all the countries.
   But however, since 1947, the West almost neglected Afghanistan’s role on this part of the world. In this regard the celebrated poet and philosopher, Iqbal said once:
   Asia is a figure Made of water and mud In this figure Afghanistan Is the heart Her ruination is The ruination of Asia Her occupation is The occupation of Asia.
   But the West left this “Heart of Asia” alone to the greedy and hungry beasts of Russia. Thus Afghanistan became a bread and butter for Russia. So they rushed impatiently and invaded Afghanistaa But the Afghans stood up with stones, sticks, spades, and swords in their hands against the invaders. Thus the ‘Drama, staged once again on the cross-road of Asia.
                                              IMMIGRATION
   When the Afghans did see the Russian Bears bite every one and do not discriminate between combatant and non-combatant and even do not
 spare the life of the old, Women, children and enfants in their cradles and so widly and wildly they attacked everywhere everyone, then the Afghans started migration to the neighbouring countries.
   Russia invaded and embar-
 ked on mass killing and genocide, and every Afghan, who was not a member of their lackey’s bond, was chased, arrested and killed.
   The fleeing Afghans were still to pitch a tent that the socalled helper hand of the West reached them. In other words, special forms were distributed among the Refugees and refuge was offered in various countries of the West. For a man, whose country has .been invaded and occupied, his home bombed and demolished, his father, mother, sister, brother, children and country fellows, chased and killed, and one third of the entire population of his country thrown out of their homes and hearths and those who saught or took refuge in a .country near to the blood bath, being invited to a far safer and secure place, almost with all possible facilities, would not be possible to reject such an
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987