H. ABU _IRFAN
VIOLATION AND BARBARISM RETALIATED WITH GENEROSITY
   The Government of Pakistan handed over six captured Soviet helicopter crew to the Soviet Embassy as a gesture of goodwill in Islamabad on October, 6, 1987, on the request of Soviet Government.
   It was on October 3, when two military helicopter gun-sh*ps, violating the airspace of Pakistan territory, penetrated over 50 km and landed in the Mastuj sub-division of the Chitral district in NWFP, 12000 ft, above sea level.
   The crew comprising two pilots, two copilots and two mechanics, belonging to 2177 Army Unit affiliated with the KGB Guard Brigade. According to their assertions they had started from Alama Ata in the Kazakh Republic of Soviets, and traversed across the Wakhan Corridor of Afghanistan, intering Pakistan territory.
   The gunships were damaged by the Soviet, crew and* were no longer in flying condition. The crew who had destroyed their identity papers, have
  given their names as:. Maj Yevgeni Nicolai, Pilot, Lt Serge Gennatee, co-pilot; Andrea Vekaragae, mechanic; Antali Yadinovcch. mechanic.
    However, Soviet had never tolerated such trespassing of its territory, and whenever, the Soviet Government has found any aircraft in violation of-Soviet airspace, the crew are severly punished, It may be recalled that last May when a West German youth. Mathew Rust, flew his unarmed small .plane in to the Soviet territory, landing in Mascow without the permission of the Soviet Government had been sentenced by the Soviet authorities to four years imprisonment.
    In 1985, the Soviet Government shot down a passenger Soutii Korean Air-liner, and killed 269 passengers on board, which was a clear cut gencide and the violation of' the laws . of Air as well as of the principles of the Havana, Warsa and Chicago Convention.
    The Soviet puppet regime
 in Kabul has committed several hundred violations of Pakistan’s airspace and heavely bombarded civilian villages, and refugee camps, inside Pakistan, killing and wounding a large number of Pakistani nationals and Afghan refugees, since 1979, in the border area of Chitral, Parachinar, Baluchistan, Bajaur, Momand, Kurram, and Khybar, Agencies. The most sever and distructive of these bombardments was that of the South Waziristan Agency, when three Soviets jet bombers violated Pakistan air-space on 23, March this year, and droped three bombs on village Angoor Bagh where 20 persons were killed and 22 were injured,
    Later on the same day, four Soviet-Afghan military aircraft violated Pakistan air space by four kilomiters in the Kurram Agency and droped six rockets and 12 bombs on Teri Mangal Village. As a result 65. persons were killed and 10 wounded, besides large-scale damage to civilian properties, was occured.
    In these raids by Soviet-Afghan jet bombers, since the beginning of the Afghan problem, more than 531 people had been killed, which includes both Pakistanis and Afghan refugees, while, 740 persons had been injured. In the ground attacks by Soviet-Afghan artillery, iside Pakistan territory 159 persons had been killed and 287 wounded.
    Every air and ground violation, and the killing and
    Continue on page 32
LIBERATION FRONT
27
DECEMBER, 1987