Afghan Mujahideen are fighting for the cause of Islam, and they would succeed.
 not understand how 1 feel., You are not yet in the army. You have a confortable life...”
   “My greeting to Zina, Maria and other friends. Tell them to write to me. I am going to be sent on a trip. But no idea to where. When I come back I will tell you the strory.”
   “August 19,1986. My dear Forgive me dearest that 1 have not yet answered your letter. I am burning in your fire and in other fire. I remember you with my tears. My darling it is very difficult. Please help me by writing to me, remembering me. Many have come and have disappeared. For God’s sake what is to be done? Please write to me...”
   “Greeting dear.... We went apart and I was separated from my cultivated fields. Tell me, you promised to write. Why then? I have made 18 trip and each time I have written to you. But you did not keep your promise. You know that I am in serious danger. I went through heavy attacks and lost a number of my friends. I am terribly homesick. I hope you will understand me and will not forget me, Kirshka.”
   From the above written letters from the Russians young soldiers to their friends and relatives, one can understand the extreme in-humanitarian burden the Soviet, emperialism has imposed on her nation to light in Afghanistan against their conscious.
LIBERATION FRONT
   According to report froi.: Mujahideen sources, the freedom fighters attacked the 23rd Soviet Brigade head-quarters in Paktia Province on April 11,87. In the course of heavy fighting several Soviet troops including two officers were killed and three armoured vehicles were destroyed. On 14, April, eight Soviet-Kabul troops were killed and injured.
   On 13, April the Afghan Mujahideen attacked the Government base in Kandahar province, killed four troops. In another attack on Soviet-Kabul convoy in Logar Province, Mujahideen killed Communist troops and destroyed eight tanks and armoured vehicles.
   The Mujahideen have also successfully repulsed a strong offensive of the Afghan-Soviet forces in Hisarak area of Ningrahar Province killing 26
 solids while 60 other were injured during the clash.
   The Soviet-Kabul troops conducted an air attack on Mujahideen who were moving to wards the Parwan province from Logar. In the heavy bombardment 18 Mujahideen were martyred while some others were captured, 40 mules carrying arms and ammunition were also killed.
   Report from Kandahar says that 600 Afghan troops joined the ranks of Mujahideen in Maiwand sub-division on April 28. Similarly Mujahideen attacked a security post at.'Eidgah gate of Kandahar city which resulted in the killing of eight Soviet-Kabul troops and destroying of an armoured car.
   According to. the Mujahideen sources, several kind of chemical weapons have been used by the Russian troops
-------u-------------------------------
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987            32