          This year the resolution introduced by Pakistan Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mr. Zain Noorani, sponsored by 48 Islamic and nonaligned countries and supported by all freedom-loving nations secured 123 votes in 159 members Assembly, calling for the political settlement of the Afghan problem based on the immediate withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan, and the return of the Afghan refugees to their homeland in “safety and honour.” The delegation of the Mujahideen leaders called the resolution,” the conscience of the world”.
          However, thfe adoption of a resolution with absolute majority of 123 votes in the 159 members Assembly, and calling unanimously on Soviet to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, proves beyand doubt, that the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan is a clear violation of the charter of the United Nations.
          But, despite the passage of nine years, since its military intervention. Soviet has ignored all the resolutions adopted in the United Nations. It is therefore, believed that the adoption of resolutions and calling the Soviet for the withdrawal of its forces is not the constructive approach to the settlement of the Afghan problem.
          If the 123 States who have supported the resolution on Afghanistan, sincerely desire th withdrawal of Soviet troops, Soviet is not such a mighty power of the world to ignore the demand of 123 member States, of UN, and delay the withdrawal-of her troops from Afghanistan.
          The Mujahid nation of Afghanistan therefore, strongly appeal to the memberStates of the United Nations, those who are in favour of the Afghan problem, to be settled, to bring political and economical pressure on Soviet, and use force against the invaders to evacuate Afghanistan immediately.
            •r
                                    MUJAHIDEEN LEADERS.
          A delegation of the leaders of Afghan Mujahideen consists of Peer Sayed Ahmad Gailani, Hazrat Prof. Sioghatullah Al-Mojaddedi, Maulvi Mohammad Nabi Muhammadi, while Prof. Burhanuddin Raboani and some other leaders were represented by their representatives visited United States of America under the chaimanship.of Maulvi Mohammad Younus Khalis, to discuss the Afghanistan problem with the concern authorities, and to convince free world to support the Afghan problem in the United Nations.
          The delegation representing Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen, received every kind of assurance of support for Afghan Mujahideen, fighting Soviet forces, from the freedom-loving nations. It was pledged that the assistance they providing for the Afghan Mujahideen will be strengthened rather than diminished so that the freedom fighters would be able to continue their Jehad and to fight effectively for the freedom of their country.
                                      I
          In an interview they said “The Russians do not have any base in Afghanistan. Their puppet government has no base, and if we accept them into the government it will be against the will of the people, and will amount to the slaughter of the nation", they said.” The Afghan will never accept a compromise. We will fight the Russians as long as they are in our country 'arnjl as long is a single Afghan remains alive,” From a military point of yiew,
    . Soviets are beaten up and we can drive them out,” the Mujahideen leaders said.” But the international community must take a strong stand against them. It must say clearly that this is. an aggression and should be stopped and the troops should be withdrawn. If the world listens to the Soviets propaganda, this will go on and get longer and longer. The
h                                            t
6
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987