 whole world must say no to them,” the delegation of the Mujahideen leaders added.
      In the Press Conference, sponsored by the United Nations Correspondents Association (UNCA), the delgation said that” In a negotiated political settlement no peace agreement was acceptable without the participation of Mujahideen.”
      They said, the estimated 120,000 Soviet troops present in Afghanistan since December 1979 were not ready to go home, and Soviet offers to discuss the issue in U.N. mediated talks in Geneva were” tricks” to remain in the country. The delegation requested the United Nations that Mr. Cordovez should stop that game and instead help to implement U.N. General Assembly resolutions which have repeatedly called for prompt, total and unconditional withdrawal of its (Soviet) forces from Afghanistan. They called the Geneva talks and the U.N. resolutions a “contradiction” to the Afghan problem.
                          REAGAN-GORBACHEV SUMMIT:
      The Summit meeting held between the leaders of two Superpowers, President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev in Washington on Monday the 7th December 1987, was generally presumed, before its commencement'that some progress in regard to the problem of Afghanistan would emerge from the conference.
      President Reagan-in his tough speech a week before his meeting with Gorbachev called on Moscow with strong words to “bite the bullet” and set a date for pulling out of Afghanistan.”
      “It is time for them to pack up, pull cut and go home,” the President declared." It is time they set a date certain for the complete withdrawal of all Soviet troops from Afghanistan.”
      Similarly in his meeting with the Leaders of the Afghan Mujahideen on November 12, in. Washington, President Reagan While giving them assurance of the American support for the Afghan Mujahideen stated that the Soviet military presence was a barrier to improve Soviet-American relations.
      Senate Democratic leader Robert Byrd and other Congressional leaders who met Gorbachev told him that chances of passing the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces, treaty would be greatly inhanced if Moscow set a swift and realistic timetable for the withdrawal from Afghanistan and improve its human rights fecord.
      But all propusals were ignored by Gorbachev in the meeting and did not elaborately discussed the withdrawal of Iroops from Afghanistan,. Soviet polity on the withdrawal of forces, remained the same as it was before the summit meeting held in Washington.
                                    f
      Thus one doubts whether President Reagan is sincere to the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan. Or he just wants the Russians to let them suffer, in Afghanistan. What he talked before the Summit meeting, did not stand on his words during his summit conference with, Gorbachev, j Had President Reagan been frank enough in Soviet pull-out, he woulfi have asked GorbacHevjn the meeting, before putting his signature to the INF treaty, to set a
 date for puHing out of Afghanistan, and then discuss the INF treaty in the summit.
                                           )
       t           *      '
      The Course of history has proved that the Russian expand and did not stop untill they were stopped, they never evacuate, once they pccupy land unless they are forced.
DECEMBER, 1987
7
LIBERATION FRONT