      The shooting down of helicopter-gunships by Mujahideen is heavy below to the Soviet Air-Force. (Paktia Province.)
with the co-operation of Swedish Committee. A part of the fund for project was also granted by the Department of VITA in the year 1987.
   The Rope Carrier Project was designed and supervised by Dr. Hashmatallah Moja-ddedi during the year 1986-87. The machinary for pulling the carrier across the river was also designed by Dr. Mojaddedi, and manufactured in the workshop of ANLF at Peshawar.
   The Soviet helicopter -gunship tried to bomb the project but valiant and heroic Mujahideen successfully defended the project against the bombardment. In order to protect the structure from the Russian bombers, tunnels were excavated on both sides of the river, aqd the construction was under-taken inside the tunnels.
   As the distance from Ben-shai to Neshagam is about 60 km, and takes two days for a person to walk along the high mountains of Kunar, the transportation of materials therefore, raised the cost of the project tremendously.
   In the inaugural ceremony, of the Rope Carrier project, Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi, the designer of the project, thanked Almighty Allah for granting him the opportunity to complete the project for the benefit of his country fellows and Mujahidefcn. Now the new Rope Carrier he said is capable to accommodate and carry' 8 to 15 persons
per trip in crossing the river. He also extended his gratification to Hazrat Prof. Sib-ghatullah Al-Mojaddedi, leader of the Afghan National Liberation Front for providing fund and facilities for the construction of the project. The designer was also grateful to Dr. Zabihullah Mojaddedi for extending various manuscript and advice for the design of the Scheme.
   Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi highly appreciated the cooperation, donation, equipment, appointment of technicians and other facilities provided by Mr. Anders Fange Chairman of Sewdish Committee, and Mr. David Garner and Eng. Siddiq, for the success of the nlan. The Designer also i thanked Eng. Fazl-i-Haq and Mr. Jawad for manufacturing one of the
                                                              f
 pulling shaft in the Workshop of the Austrian Committee in Peshawar Pakistan.
    He also acknowledged the co-operation and the consultation of Dr. Soorgul and Eng. Sulaiman in the construction of the project for the Rope Carrier, on Kunar river.
    Finally, Dr. Hasmatullah Mojaddedi called on Muslim Ummah and all other peace and freedom loving nations to extend their sincere cooperation to the Afghan Mujahideen, who are fighting with insufficient means against the Soviet Red Army in Afghanistan. He also invited the attention of the peace-loving countries to         cooperate
 in the development of technical project under taken by Mujahideen in the liberated areas inside Afghanistan.
DECEMBER. 1987
25
liberation front