 against the innocent people of Afghanistan. Such weapons as presently used by the Soviet troops in Afghanistan have so far never been tested in any other country. Thus, after the Soviet invasion, Afghanistan has been turned into a place of testing new Soviet arms.
 I In dara-e-Soof Samangan
 Province, Mujahideen ambushed on Soviety-Kabul security post. In result of heavy fighing 109 Soviet-Kabul troops were surrendered to Mujahideen with their arms.
   Other reports from Mujahideen sources also speak about Mujahideen’s attacks on the bases of Soviet-Afghan forces in Kandahar, Baghlan, Mazar-e-Sharif, Kunduz, Herat, Bamyan, Parwan, (iardez Logar, Ningrahar, Kunar and kabul where Soviet-Kabul troops sustained heavy casualties in men and materials.
   In the past six months, this year a larg number of Soviet-Afghan troops have been killed, surrendered to Mujahideen, captured and injured. Tanks, armoured cars, military vehicles, amis and ammunition have been destroyed and seized. Soviet helicopter gun-ships, jet-bombers, and other military plans have been shot downed and damaged by the Afghan Mujahideen throughout Afghanistan .
during the war to estemate            side. The real figure always
correct figure of loss in             gets in to surface after the
men and materials on either war ends.
Mules are the only means for Mujahideen to carry’ arms-to their centres of Jehad.
                                         “If that region (The Persian Gulf)
 goes under Russian control, Japan and Western Europ would hardly be able to do anything but strive for an arrangement, the result of which would be the end
                                   of the alliances that have been known to
 us for almost two generations ”
   The serious damage to the Russian forces caused by the Afghan Mujahideen since the Russian has invaded Afghanistan, Soviet herself has admitted.
   However, it is difficult
Count Hans Huyn member of the West German Parliament
33
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT