 June, Soviet launched several affensives throughout Afghanistan but the Russian troops sustained heavy casualities losing large number of Jet bombers, helicopter gunships, tanks, armouredcars, military vehicles, ammunition, and soli-diers.
                                         KGB CHIEF VISITS AFGHAN BORDER AFTER MUJAHIDEEN ATTACKS
   The head of the KGB, Mr. Viktor Chebrikov, has just spent five days inspecting military and border guard units along the Afghan border, reflecting growing Soviet concern at the new Afghan guerrilla strategy of mounting cross-border raids, Tass said.
   In the past two months, the Soviet media have reported two raids. On March 8, in a cross-border rocket attack on the frontier town of Pyandzh, one man was killed and two
 more wounded. On April 8, Afghan guerrillas clashed with a Soviet patrol, and killed two border guards before being fought off in disarray, according to the Tass report.
   The KGB chief visited Pyandzh this week, as well as local forts and the headquarters of the border guards — a 200,000 man military unit under KGB command.
   Although in military terms the attacks were pin pricks, the shock of war being brought back to Soviet soil for the first time since 1945 has rocked the Soviet military and security forces. There are now fears in Moscow that the Afghan resistance has embarked on a new strategy which could move on from cross-border attacks to more ambitious operations inside Soviet territory. The prospect of a terrorist campaign directed against civilians would be a nightmare for. the KGB.
    “In the past, it has been the policy of the Afghan resistance not to >,tart military action in the border zone, because they did not want to hurt their fellow tribesmen who lived across the frontier, and because they had hopes of support from Soviet Muslims,” one Nato diplomat has noted.
    “But the new attempts by the Soviet and Kabul governments to reach a political settlement and to include the moderate opposition within the Government has alarmed militants who want to force a Russian withdrawal. The real Soviet concern now is that the Afghans might have the organisation and the weaponry to begin terrorist actions deep inside the Soviet Union. They certainly have the kind of commitment that made the Palestinian and Lebanese cause such fertile ground for terrorism,’’ the diplomat speculated.
    Security checks have been stepped up on trains and roads in the border zones as a result of the Chebrikov visit. He also held meetings with Government and military leaders in Uzbekistan and Tadzhikistan, the two largely Muslim Soviet republics on the Afghan border.
    Some 50 million Soviet citizens come from traditionally Muslim backgrounds, most of them in the republics which border Iran and Afghanistan, and Islam remains a powerful force. The prospect of an-Is-
 The Mujahideen have captured arms, ammunition and military vehicles from the Russian troops.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
30