 ghanistan become an independent Islamic State to safeguard our own independence and security. It was in that cotext that the people of Pakistan prayed for the success of Afghan Mujahideen in their war of freedom and would continue to provide shelter for Afghan refugees. It is our Islamic duty to support our Muslim brothern who have been forced to for sake their homes and have taken shelter in Pakistan, and also pray for the success of Mujahideen who are waging a Jehad, he said.
    Speaking in D.I. Khan, on November 16, President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, reiterated his government’s resolve that no compromise would be made on the issue of Afghanistan and would stick to its stand at all co&ts. He said that the Pakistan principled stand had been acknowledged • by majority of the countries. He added “the Afghan Mujahideen were waging ‘Jehad, not only for the liberation of their homeland from foreign domination but also fighting for the cause of Pakistan and the entire Muslim world”. The President said although, Pakistan was not directly involved in this ‘Jehad, but, Pakistan could provide succour to more than three million uprooted Afghans brothem-in-faith.
       PRIME MINISTER MOHAMMAD KHAN JUNEJO DEMANDED JUST SOLUTIONy' J
    Prime Minister Mohammad Khan Junejo," addressing the
  42nd session of the United Nations General Assembly, on September 24, called upon the world leaders to reconfirm their principled position on Afghanistan. He said foreign military intervention in that country represented an attempt to reverse the tide of history. The Prime minister said Afghanistan, which was historically independent, a founding member of the United Nations, was subjugated its sovereignty usurp ted and its land desecrated. He observed that the intervention of the Soviet Union in that free country violated the fundamental principles of the U.N. Charter could not be denied.
    He said no objective observer could ignore that the people of Afghanistan were waging legitimate struggle for national liberation and self-determination and that the presence of Soviet forces in that country posed direct and potential threat to the security and stability of the entire region.
     Earligr on 14, October, on his visit to the United State of America, Prime Minister , Mohammad Khan Junejo at Washington said “Eveh if aid were cut off, Pakistan policy towards Afghanistan would not be changed.
     There was no U.S. aid to Pakistan in 1979, when the Afghan problem first arose he said adding, “,We will pursue our policy on Afghanistan. That is very clear.”
                                                               f
   Mr. Junejo in the interview with the Washington Post insisted that the Pakistan’s policy on Afghanistan was a separate issue from the U.S. aid programme.
   On his visit to Malaysia, in reply to a question, in regard to bomb blasts in Pakistan, Prime Minister, explained the causes of bomb blasts in different parts of the country and said they had come in the wake of Pakis- . tan resolve to look after the Afghan brothern who had taken shelter in Pakistan as refugees after the Soviet’s invasion of their country. He said that saboteurs, trained in Afghanistan, had been causing these blasts. The acts of terrorism were intended to build up public pressure against Pakistan’s principled stand on the issue of Afghanistan.
                                             OIC CALLS FOR SHORTER
                                              TIMEFRAME OF SOVIET PULLOUT:
   The Islamic Conference believes that a short timeframe for the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan was essential to promote the process of national reconciliation.
   “Genuine national reconciliation was important but it could not take place under foreign occupation nor could it be imposed from outside” Said a joint communique issued on 7th October, on the deliberation held by Islamic Foreign Ministers on 1st October.
DECEMBER, 1987
35
LIBERATION FRONT