 single largest group of refugees in the world. The Government of Pakistan re-portes, registration of more than 2.8 million' Afghans and the numbers further continue to grow. The refugees are sheltered in more than 300 camps, primary in the rural areas of Pakistan’s North-West Frontier Province and Baluchistan. Relief assistance, including food, shelter, clothing, and medicine, is provided by the international community, primarily through the UN High Commissioner for refugees (UNHCR) and the World Food Program.
    Recently arrived refugees are facing more hardsheps compared to their predecessors because of the sever fightings in Afghanistan. They bring with them fewer possessions and livestock, thereby placing an additional burden on relief efforts in Pakistan.
    The report has added that Refugee-Pakistani relations have been surprisingly good, with few incidents, largely due to the strong cultural and social ties between the indigenous population and the newcomers. Since early 1986, however, Soviet backed regime attempts to exploit Pakistani concern over the refugees’ presence have increased.
     In regard to the relief assistance to the Afghan refugees, the report says that between 1983 and 1986, the World Bank, in conjunction with the UNHCR, committed $20 million for forestation, irrigation, and road-building
 projects that employ refugees and local labour ill repairing environmental damage caused by the refugees. This project has recently been extended for 3’years.
   The U.S. Government, the largest contributor to the relief effort, pledged nearly $50 million for Afghan assistance in fiscal year 1986. •including $25 million worth of commodities through the World Food Program. To date, total U.S. contribution for Afghan refugees assistance exceed $480 million. Other' major contributors are Japan, Canada, Asustralia, Saudi Arabia, and a number of West-European nations.
   The second largest concentration of Afghan refugees is in Iran The Iranian Government estimates that up to 1.9 million Afghans are within its borders, half of them located in the spbrsely populated eastern provinces of Khorasan and Sistan-Baluchistan. Many Afghans in Iran have successfully integrated into the local population. However, the Government does provide some assistance through its Council for Afghan Refugees, part of the Iranian Ministry of the Interior. In addition to providing equipment for an extensive network of reception and transit centres, UNHCR is developing programs to train refugees in the skills they require to become selfsufficient. The United States is not a contributor to the UNHCR effort in Iraa
                                                                                             Thus the influx of the
 Afghan Mihajireen has been started with the Russian military intervention in Afghanistan in 1978. Over-one-third of Afghanistan’s prewar population of 15 million has been violently displaced. Over 1 million Afghans /'have been driven into urban areas, arch as Kabul, whose population has more than doubled since the invasion, more than 4 million Afghans have fled abroad, to become the world’s largest refugees population. Human rights groups have estimated that more than 600,000 Afghans have been killed although other sources, including the Mujahideen, estimate that between one and one and a half million have lost their lives. Hundreds of thousands of Afghans have been injured or seriously dis-abbledi Afghan living in Soviet dominated areas suffer arbitrary arrests,. detentions without trial, execution of political opponents, torture and persecutions in large numbers.
    Before 1978 no Afghan has crossed over the border to their two close neighbouring states of Iran ajjd Pakistan with the intention to take refuge or with the desire to settle permanently in these Muslin states, with the exception of few hundred of Gipsies who used to come to Pakistan during winter season for the protection of their cattles from the extreme weather in Afghanistaa The majority of
  refugees particularly from the Northern Afghanistan had even no idea about Pakistan
25
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT