The Mujahideen are tired of journey, but not tired of Jehad.
troops getting out of Afghanistan as fast as they entered the country in 1979.
   “It is an important part of our strategy not to have the Soviets pursue invasion routes to the oil-fields . and Afghanistan is one of those”, he said.
   He said he believed the importance they attached to this was shown by the fact that for the first time since World War II they were using their own' troops and “not somebody else’s to try and carry out their strategic objectives”.
   Mr. Weinberger’s said it was Washington’s strategic objective to block that kind of advance since “we would have a difficult time, and Europe would have an impossible time living if the Soviet controlled access to the oil.
DUTCH TEAM VISITS AFGHAN REFUGEE CAMP
   A three-member Dutch delegation representing Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Welfare and Ministry of Justice, led by Mr. Hans Sondal, head of the Refugees Affairs in Foreign Office, visited Kacha Garhi refugee camp on January 13.
   The delegation was briefed by the senior officials of the Refugee Commissionerate with regard to the provision of relief assistance to the refugees in the province.
   Later the dignitaries, went round various parts of the tentage village. They visited primary schools for girls and boys and inquired about the curricular and extra-curricular activities in schools, they also visited domestic energy saving project run by a German-aided agency at the camp. This agency is designing ovans and stoves different from the traditional ones consuming less firewood.
   The delegation also paid a visit to the vocational training centre for Afghan boys at Peshawar.
 SIHANOUK LAUDS PAK ROLE ON AFGHANISTAN
   Prince Samdech Norodom Sihanouk, President of Democratic Kampuchea, made a brief stopover at Karachi airport while returning from Belgrade on 23 January.
   In a statement at tne airport the Prince appreciated role of Pakistan Government in providing shelter and looking after such huge number of Afghan refugees.
   He said that the Kampuchean Government and the people fully support the principled stand of the Government of Pakistan regarding the Afghan issue.
   He stressed that Soviet troops be withdrawn from Afghanistan so that the people there could form a government of their own choice.
   The Prince also commended die progress and development that has taken place in Pakistan during the last 40 years saying that he had first visited the area in 1946 and singe then he noticed a remarkable change.
   He particularly mentioned
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
40