 passing through socio-economic transitional phases.
 Hegemonial Neighbourhood.
 Russian neighbourhood is an hornet’s nest. None of its neighbours found rest at its hand. It has been .expanding east and west, north ana south for the last four centuries: it is currently the world’s largest single state areawise (22,402,000 K.M. out of the total world area of 149,000,000 K.M.) and most of it (70%) had been carved out of Asia. The area in the east is three times larger than in the west and its expansion much more easier in the east than in the west. Russian’s historic neighbours Ukraine, Lithuania, Moldavia, Estonia, Latvia, Arminia, Gorgia, the Siber, the Kazak ,ithe Uzbeks, Khiva, Bokhara and Khokand, all today stand merged in Russia. The states of Norway, Sweden, Finland, Poland, Czechoslovakia Humgary, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, Iran, China, Afghanistan, Mongolia, Korea and even distant Japan have felt the bitter brunt of it. It will be follish trusting the Soviet terminology of “peaceful co-existance” and friendly neighbourhood”. The lessons of history are fruitful only if they are practised and not simply memorised. .
  Super Power Entanglement:
   Realistic neutrality though in the modern complexities of world political situation, is well-nigh impossible yet there are some states today which have been maintaining some form of neutrality in the
 supper power rivalry. Pakistan is the formative part of its foreign policy planning did not evaluate its geo-political position and perhaps out of certain economic and sociopolitical constraints drifted towards the West and entered into the West oriented CENTO, SEATO pacts but sooner realized the cost of it and slowly moved towards a situation wherefrom it could escape direct confrontation with any super power. The Soviet presence in Afghanistan negates this effort. The world is under division with the Anglo-Saxon, Slav camps. The rivalry spreads from trade and culture to ideology and small nations find it hard to be heard. The Slavic presence in Afghanistan invites the AngloSaxon attendance in the neighbouring Pakistan on account of threat sharing.
   The Russophobists in Pakistan, see in the present Soviet action in Afghanistan, a push towards the Russian historic longing for the warm waters. Afghanistan had provided an obstacle in this direction and the British withdrawal from the sub-continent made Russian move easy and on the first available opportunity
 they marched into Afghanistan. Pakistan, the Russophobists are under the circumstances should send a call to every available friend and well-wisher for help and support as the next Soviet move would be disastrous for the state and the sovereignty of Pakistan None of the Soviet neighbours, they further maintain, have
 survived without assistance from a matching power and the cases of Turkey and Iran during the last century and that of the Western European states in recent century can be cited as instances for it. Any lapse or compromise on the issue by the government of Pakistan is likely to bring insurmountable problems for the further generations in Pakistan.
   But contrary to it, the Russophil advise restrain and caution in dealing with the situation. They also advise Pakistan to put its own house in order, as the sounder the internal situation the better its performance in dealing abroad.
   The policy pursued on Afghanistan by the government of Pakistan since the Saur Revolution of April 1978 followed by the Soviet invasion of this country in December, 1979, as gleaned through the news media, is in conformity with the decades of time. It was alarmed in the first instance in early eighties, posed for a while a belligarant attitude but with the passage of time it toned down itself to a position of understanding without reconciling itself to a change in the broad principles of its policy regarding Afghanistan. Pakistan’s principled stand on this issue is (i) Immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan (ii) honourable and safe return of Afghan refugees to their land (iii) restoration of non-aligned and Is-
                                            Continued on page 2©
17
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT