 Mr. Cordon Humphry I .S. Senator, visiting Xassir Hugh Refugees Camp, while Mr. Fahimullah Khatak, Commissioner Afghan Refugees aecom-panying him.
 refugees is as strong as it was in the beginning and has in no way been affected by free distribution of relief assistance. If the refugees have replaced their tents with temporary mud huts, is merely to protect themselves from vagaries of extreme weather and is not meant for permanent settlement.
    Brig (Retd) Syed Azhar has also enlighted the matter from the early stage when a small number (around 109,000) Afghan refugees crossed the border to Pakistan with the coup of Taraki in April 1978, and sought refuge in Pakistan. Subsequently, with the direct Russian armed intervention on 26, December 1979, the refugees figure increased to almost 400,000, and in the middle of 1980, it marked one million, and the second" million about a year after. The figure stood at more than three million at the end of June 1983. The Chief Commissioner has further stated
 that one may ask, have these refugees been pouring in, in such a large number, are they falling a famine, or epidemic or some other natural calamity? No, Syed Azhar said, the answer given by refugees themselves is simple, they are fighting to regain their national freedom and uphold their religious belief which they have zealously guarded over the centuries.
   While they are carrying on their struggle, their aged man-folk women and children are forced to seek shelter in thier brother country of Pakistan, a foreign but friendly land. Moreover, the ties of the Afghan with the people of Pakistan have been deep and abiding. They have common history, tradition, religion and a common culture, which have patterned in lives of both peoples in similar moulds. On these grounds when our Afghan Muslim brothers have opted Pakistan for their refuge the government of Pakistan
 cannot turn their back on them in accordance with the principles of Islam, and the United Nations convention of 1951 and the 1967 protocol on the status of refugees.
    When Brig (Retd) Fahim-ullah Khattak, Commissioner of Afghan Refugees, NWFP, Peshawar was briefed by Mr. Carter Ex-President of the United States, on his visit to Nasir Bagh tentage village on 3, November last in the out-skirts of Peshawar about the influx of Afghan refugees and the humanitarian assistance being provided to them. The Commissioner informed him that the number of refugees had crossed a figure of three million residing in Pakistan The unregistered refugees who were living with their friends in the •tribal areas will make the total over and above three million.
    In NWFP about 2.41 million refugees were housed in 244 tentage villages while 62 such villages had been established in Baluchistan and 12 in the Punjab.
    He was further informed by Mr. Khatak that more than 45 voluntary agencies were working in the NWFP for the provision of succour and relief to these refugees. He was informed that the influx of Afghan refugees was still continuing at the rate of thousands per month.
    According to United Nations’ report on Refugees, Afghans in Pakistan are the
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY-JUNE-JULY - 1987
24