the relevant resolutions adopted by the fourth Islamic summit and previous Islamic Conferences.
   It called for increasing efforts to ensure that Afghanistan remained independently and retained its Islamic and non-aligned character and expressed deep concern over continous influx and the suffering of millions Afghan refugees who had sought refuge in Pakistan and Iran and whose number continued to increase.
   The resolution strongly urged that approperiate conditions be promoted to enable the Afghan refugees to return to their homeland with honour and safety, and renewed the call to all states as well as national and international organisations to extend assistance to alleviate the suffering of the Afghan re-fugges.
   The Muslim leaders deeply deplored repeated violations of the airspace of Pakistan and bombordment of territory from the Afghan side and appreciated the restrain exercised by the Government of Pakistan in the face of these provocations.
OIC URGED TO PUT PRESSURE ON USSR:
   The following statement was submitted by Syed Mohammad Tanzeem Wasti, Secretary General, Muslim Solidarity Committee, London, to the Head of Islamic
 countries participating the OIC conference in Kuwait:
   On behalf of Muslim Solidarity Committee I would like to put forward the following suggestion for the Islamic Summit, with reference to Afghanistan.
   1)    The OIC. should cooperate with the U.N.O. in co-ordinating their efforts to find a solution to the situation in Afghanistan
   2)    The ^OIC and Islamic countries .should, exert maximum pressure, economic and otherwise, on Russia, to compel it to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan within 3 to 6 months under the supervision of U.N.O. and OIC obseervers.
   3)    During the withdrawal, Muslim observers should be posted in Afghanistan to ensure that the withdrawal is complete and that the Afghan people and Mujahideen can return in complete safety and honour.
   4)    U.N.O. and Muslim observers should be posted in the USSR, north of Afghanistan near the border to ensure no further inflation.
   5)    The Afghan Muslims will peed to reconstruct their nation after the long period of destruction and human casualties. Therefore Russian should pay three quarters of the necessary costs by way of war compensation, as they were responsible for
 causing so much damage and loss of life.
   If Russia refuses to withdraw its troops and to give financial assistance to the independent nation of Afghanistan, the Muslim countries should seriously consider closing down their embassies in the USSR and ceasing economic and diplomatic relations the press release of the OIC concluded.
 SAUDI CONCERN OVER AFGHAN AIR RAIDS
   RIYADH, April 2 : Saudi Arabia has expressed grave concern at the escalation of air raids on Pakistan’s border villages on the part of Afghanistan reiterating the kingdom’s continued efforts to restore peace in the region.
   The Saudi Government is following with deep concern the developments of the situation in the region and the outcome of the air raids on the border villages^ a responsible Saudi Arabian official said.
   In a statement to the Saudi Press Agency, the Saudi official denounced the air raids saying they were a manifestation of pressure on the Government of Pakistan and the Mujahideen who take refuge in Pakistan.
   The official said the Saudi Kingdom is exerting maximum efforts tq restore peace in the region and put an end to all forms of actions threatening world peace and security.—
         ----------—---- ~ ■ . . *
  35               "STAY - JUNE - JULY - 198T
LIBERATION FRONT