LIBERATION FRONT
 time. He and a few friends of him began selling cattle in the black market and would get drunk with the money they made. When they were caught, they were sent to Afghanistan.
    The fourth respondent, a demolition expert, says that an officer with whom he did not get along, arranged for him to be sent to Afghanistan. Once he told his officer: "If I ever get out of the army, I will kill you." And he said: "Well, I am going to send you to a place from where you will never return."
    Some other Soviet conscripts with criminal records are being dispatched to Afghanistan. One former sergeant, who about such cases has remarked:
    "For the most part, criminals are send to serve in bad places inside the Soviet Union, such as Siberia and the Central Asia. But criminals are send to Afghanistan as well. Not ofily criminals, but also those who had committed a crime and were about to be put in jail. There were some fellows whose cases have already been opened in courts and who were going to jail. Their only solution was to join the army and tjieir cases would be dropped."
    Thus some Soviet military officers and soldiers were sent to serve in Afghanistan because of tarnished records, some other have been demoted for chronic drunkenness and others have been sent to Afghanistan after being demoted for unspecified transgressions.
    So when such offenders and convicted soldiers were sent by the Soviet military authority to Afghanistan to fight ^gain^t the Mujahideen, how the Soviets can expect them to return to Russia, join the army, stand the trial and serve the term of their sentences. NJost of these Soviet offenders have
 always tried to desert the Soviet army in Afghanistan, have joined the Mujahideen ranks or remained in captivity of the Mujahideen and have further applied for asylum in Europe or in the United States.'
    Another factor for the desertion of Soviet troops, is relations between first and second-year soldiers in the Soviet expeditionary force. This conflict, known as (DEDOVSHEHINA AND STRAIKOVSHINA) a Russian terms used for junior and senior soldiers, which is of course of long standing in the Soviet army. Under this army precedents, second-year soldiers, regardless of rank enjoy complete hegemony over the younger conscripts.
    The superior status of the old-timers is expressed in a number of practices. Perhaps the most innocuous of these is the young soldiers forced to perform personal chores for the old-timers, such as cleaning their uniforms, shinning their boots, doing their laundry, making their beds, cooking dishes, clean up the territory, clean the latrines and even to wash his Commander’s feet and anything else the old-timers want. Second-year soldiers can often do force the first-year soldiers to give them their belongings cloths, personal items money and so pn.
    A 'former Sergeant has described his experience with senior officers on his arrival in Afghanistan: when they arrived in their permanent unit in Afghanistan, onf the very day the seniors took away their new overcoats, their gloves and their new pants that the unit had just issued to them. The old-timers further took every thing ifrom them—things such as cigarettes, lighters, pens etc.
    There are ^lso reports from reliable sources that the young soldiers were forced to scrub latrines with tooth-brushes, crawl under
April, May-1990.
 beds and run with gas masks on until they faint. Others are awakened in the middle of the night and ordered to provide food and cigarettes. Refusal to comply with the demands of the old- timers will result in severe beatings of the first-year soldiers, which are administered by a group of old-timers, who are usually brutal. Several of the respondents knew of cases where young soldiers had been beaten so severely that they had been taken to hospitals, with their bladders ruptured and ribs broken.
    A former soldier and now Soviet POW recalled that immediately upon arriving in Afghanistan, the "melody" practice for the treatment of new recruits were processed by the old men. This involved passing the young conscripts one by one through a circle of old-timers, who would hit, kick and humiliate them, "so that they would understand who is boss."
    If this cruel treatment of the new recruits in the hands of senior soldiers was complained to higher authority for the redress of their grievances, would lead to violence, moral problems and serious disciplinary action against the victim. This harsh and uncivilized treatment will lead the new recruits to committ suicide.
    A young Uzbek Soviet POW recount the case of a fellow Uzbek from his unit who killed himself: The Soviet soldier as soon as he came to Afghanistan ran away. His regiment looked for him, but could not trace him. Latter on he was found in his native place and was sent to disbat for 20 days and tlien he was brought back to his unit, where he was beaten severdly. One night at 2 a.m. he took a knife, went to the toilet, locked the door and committed suicide.
    The new recruits not only kill themselves but also shoot down
  i
11