   “The Soviet Kabul demand for reconciliation as a precondition for withdrawal would only serve to prolong the stay of Soviet troops in Afghanistan.”
   The Communique demanded that the Soviet Union provide an acceptable short-time frame to facilitate a settlement of the Afghanistan question.
   The Islamic Foreign Ministers voiced concern over the intencification of attacks by Soviet-Kabul forces against the Afghan Mujahideen and violation of Pakistan’s airspace and territory resulting in hundreds of casualities.
   They also noted with the concern that during two rounds of proximity talks held in 1987, no £ubstancial progress had been achieved on the outstanding issue of the time-frame for the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
                                               16 MUJAHIDEEN IN SAUDI ARABIA FOR TREATMENT:
    The Saudi Ambassdor in Islamabad Mr. Assad Usman Altayar said on September 17 that 16 injured Afghan Mujahideen have been trans-fered to Saudi Arabia for treatment.
    He told the Saudi News Agency in Islamabad that these Mujahideen are to be treated in Saudi Arabia under instructions from King Fahd Bin Abdul Aziz as a gesture of support and solidarity with Afghan Mujahideen in then-struggle for the libration of their homeland.
   The Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister, in the first week of October has said that the continued Soviet military occupation of Afghanistan constituted threat to the security and stability of the region as well as to inter-
national peace and security.
   Prince Saud Al-Faisal Al-Saud, said at a dinner given in his honour by Canadian External Affairs Minister Joe Clark, “while we reaffirm our fullest support for just struggle of the Mujahideen, we still look forward to a positive response from the Soviet Union to the United Nation decision, to the decision of the Organization of Islamic Conference to the stipulations of United Nations Charter, as well as to the appeals of the world for a quick withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan.”
                                                PRESIDENT REAGAN ON AFGHAN PROBLEM:
   The President of the United States of America, Mr. Ronald Reagan, while addressing the 42nd session of the United Nations General Assembly on Monday the 21 September, staunchly supported the Afghan freedon struggle, and reiterated firm support to the Afghan people and Pakistan”.
   The United States President emphasised that the Afghan must have the right to determine their own future free of foreign coercion. There is no excuse for prolonging a brutal war or proping up a regime whose days are clearly numbered. He added that regime offers political proposals that pretend compromise, but really would ensure the perpetuation of the regime’s power. He said those proposals have failed the only significant test: they  have
LIBERATION FRONT
36
DECEMBER, 1987