 LIBERATION FRONT___________April, May-1990.
 U.S. CONGRESSMAN SPEAKS OF AFGHANS, SOVIETISATION
                           According to the reports, a member of the U.S. Congress, Dan Rather spoke in detail in the Congress on May 3 regarding the ongoing Afghan war, the Soviet military assistance to the Kabul regime and sending of Afghan children to the Soviet Union.
    Rather has expressed concern over the continuation of Soviet assistance to the Kabul regime. He said at a time when the Soviet people themselves were confronted with serious economic problems resulting in the unrest in some of its republics, the Soviet Union had been providing the Kabul regime with the military assistance worth 3 to 4 billion dollars and the food-stuff worth 800 million dollar.
    It is very regrettable that the Soviet Union was spending this huge amount on military assistance to a notorious regime whereas the people of Herat and western Afghanistan were dying of starvation, he said.
    Dan Rather said the latest abortive coup of the former Afghan defence minister revealed that the Kabul regime was not only unpopular among the masses but was also confronted with many opponents amongst the communists. That is why, the Soviet government had increased the strength of its military and civil advisers in Afghanistan, he added. Rather said that mujahideen had witnessed themselves time and again the aerial strikes against them from the Soviet territory.
    The Soviet air raids were open violations of the Geneva Acc ird and these air raids had also been confirmed by an official of the UNHCR, Robert Dor.
   Rather also expressed concern over the Sovidtisation of Afghanistan saying that the mujahideen commanders had arrested a number of young Afghan soldiers in Herat last year who were speaking the Russian language.
   The mujahideen had also reported that a group of arrested Afghan soldiers in the suburbs of Jalalabat4 city were also speaking the Russian language. An officer of the Khad, Hamecd Gul, who had now migrated to Pakistan, told the mujahideen that Khad was sending 3,600 Afghans every year to the Soviet Union for secret training.
   Rather quoted Karim Meh-mood, a for mcr Afghan security official as saying that he had seen at Kabul airport time and again he Soviet military aircraft carrying Afghan children to the Soviet Union.
   Captain Abdul Alik Jamdar, who delected in January this year aid during his education in the Soviet Union, he saw a centre
where communism was being taught to the Afghan children who were forcibly taken there, he said.
   Rather said even the communist officials themselves had announced on Kabul radio about the departure of the Afghan children to the Soviet Union. For example, on November 5, 1984, Kabul radio announced that 870 children between seven to nine years of age had been sent to the Soviet Union for education for a period of ten years.
   After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan last year, the leader of the Kabul regime, Najibullah had called back thousands of Afghan children being imparted military training in the Soviet Union.
   Rather concluded it was now clear that despite their departure from Afghanistan last year, some Soviet troops were still continuing the fighting in Afghanistan.
27
ifriff, i — ..