LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 to join our American friends and together fight for the observance of human rights.
    Mr. President, I, Sergei Busov, and my friends, Vladislav Naumov and Vadim Plotnokov, ask you to let us come to the United States of America! This is our last hope of having a chance to live and not simply to exist. Please extend your helping hand to us, who arc innocent victims of this damned war.
    Respectfully yours,
    /s/Sergei Busov
    March 31, 1986.
    Dear Mr. President:
    This appeal comes to you from a former Soviet soldier who was stationed in Afghanistan and who did not participate in the genocide which the Soviet government is conducting there with the hands of Soviet people.
    I would like to tell you a little about myself. My name is Vadim AlkexandroVich Plotnokov. I was born on February 13, 1965 in Moscow, where I lived and went to school. My life in the Soviet Union was hardly any different from that of the average Soviet citizen: I went to kindergarten, to school and then
 to work. Alii i completing eighth grade, I had to start working because my family needed extra means of support. You know that simple people in the USSR live on the poverty level. I continued my education at a high school for working youth.
    In May 1983,1 was drafted into the Sov iet army and went through basic training at an aviation unit in Soviet Turkmenistan. After finishing this military training, which lasted five months, 1 was sent to Afghanistan.
    1 went to the side of the Afghan patriots voluntarily, with my weapon in my hand, because I did not agree with the policies of the Soviet political leadership.
    My own political convictions are obviously against the Communist ideology. It is now th third year I am with the Afghan resistance and my main goal is liberty. I want to be a free person and to live in a free country. It is precisely for this reason that I deserted from the Red Army. I turn to you, as the president of America and as a very good person, and ask you to grant me and my friends political asylum in the U.S.A.
    I believe that you will pay heed to our difficult situation and will help us come to America. I ask you to take a personal interest in our case because otherwise some people who are not interested in our release may stand in the way. I w'ould like to assure you that for me, there is no way back, because for a year now I have taken up arms against the Communists and I am fighting to defend the freedom <>f Afghanistan. In no way can I wish to return home. I believe that those soldiers who have returned to the USSR have committed a crude and cross act against the Free world.
    I believe in you, and hope that you will personally help me and my friends.
 with best regards.
    Yours,
    /s/Vadin Plotnikov
    April 3, 1986.
    Dear Mr. Reagan:
    I am writing to you because you are the president of the freest country in the world. I, Igor Leonidovich Kovalchuk, do not want to kill children and women; I do not want God to judge me for having spilled blood. In Afghanis-
 i
13