LIBERATION FRONT
                                                                            April, May-1990.
PROF. SAYYAF EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR KASHMIRIES
A meeting was held at Al-Jehad Wa Dawah University’s compound on Feb. 22, in solidarity and support of Afghan Mujahideen towards the Kashmiri Muslims. Prof. Sayyaf said, "we as Muslim and the soldiers of Allah are ready to help our Kashmiries Muslims brothern in their struggle". We did not start Jahad for Afghanistan
 alone but for the restoration of freedom and glory of opressed Muslim nations, he added. When ever we find our Muslim brothern in difficulties, we have to help them as much as possible. "We understand that, this is obligatory on us to help them." He said, wc declare our co-operation to all those nations which started Jehad. Kash-
miri freedom fighters who are struggling for their liberation, they are not alone. The Mujahideen of Afghanistan are side by side with them. We, once again, declare to the opressed nations that the only way of salvation is to stand up and give sacrifices for freedom and liberation. He added, the deeds of glory can not be written with chalk but written with the blood.
RABBANI’S VIEWS ON ELECTIONS
 Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, the Minister of reconstruction of the 1IGA in his interview the month of January, 1990 said, Shoora is a major issue in Islam when the formation of a govt, is concerned. Islam never allows any government to be dominated by a single or a number of persons with out election directly by people or through their representatives. It should be this to the Muslims themselves, so that they can form the Shoora according to the demand of the time and circumstances to meet their demands. Prof. Rabbani ailed the formation of Shoora as an indis-pensible option in the present circumstances. He underlined the fo lowing prerequisites: 1-Structure and formula for the formation of the Shoora should be approved by all parties or the majority of the Jehad parties. It will enable us to counter any possible allegations on the so called reprehensibility of the Shoora in the future. 2-Eormation of the Shoora should be yheld inside Afghanistan and those from the outside should be elected on the basis of the electoral zones. 3-Elec-tion should embrace all electoral zones and none of them should be ignored. With the exception of
communist,betrayers of the homeland, all people of Afghanistan can participate in the election directly or through their representatives. 4-A number of personalities from the Jehad oarties and independent Individuals, whose participation help in the settlement of the Afghan issue, should be nominated. 5-Conditions for the co-operation of the Jehad organizations should be laid down.
6-Elections and formation of the Shoora should be aimed at solving the foundamental problems of our nation and not to please others. Prof. Rabbani concluded that "although on Feb. 15, 1990 ihe one year tenure of the present Islamic Interim Government comes to ar. end, it is perferred if ihe government is extend up to a neessary period in order to avoid a political vaccume.
 i
28