LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
SOVIET PRISONERS OF WAR
    By Abu Irfan
    A United Nations report, published in November last, expressed "deep concern” over the human rights violation in Afghanistan even after the withdrawal of the Soviet troops. The report by Felix Em-racora, a special representative of the U.N. Human Rights Commission, says that the Soviet backed Kabul regime holds more than 3000 political prisoners and those awaiting trial "are kept like animals in small cells or rooms."
    It may be recalled that an, eight member Soviet delegation, representing the Soviet Peoples’ Committee for the release of the prisoners of the Afghan war, arrived in Pakistan last year on June 18, and held meetings with the Mujahideen pleaders to seek the release of the Soviet POWS.
    The Afghan Interim Government released two soldiers of the Red Army on November 27, 1989 in the presence of the Soviet ambassador in Pakistan at a ceremony held at the headquarters of the AIG in Peshawar.
    This year, again, a Soviet delegation visited Pakistan to find out ways and means for the exchange of Soviet and Afghan POWS. Moscow claims that 311 of its servicemen are missing in Af-' ghanistan, presuming that they are held prisoners by the Afghan Mujahideen. Mujahideen, on the other hand, admit having taken Soviet servicemen as prisoners, but say that the number is not as high as Moscow claims. The Mujahideen further ask the, Soviet officials to provide details of about 40,000 Mujahideen fighters who are missing in the 10 year war. *
    However, it may be known to the Soviet authorities that there
  were neither Soviet POWS in the captivity of Afghan Mujahideen nor was there any such talk and attempt by the parents of the Soviets soldiers for the release of the Soviet servicemen before 1979.
     This anxiety of the mothers of the Soviet soldiers and to the citizens of Russia as well as to the Afghan people has been created by the Soviets authorities themselves when the Soviet troops numbering about 1,20,000 invaded a non-aligned, independent Muslim state of Afghanistan in 1979, killing, arresting, harassing and torturing hundreds of thousands of innocent Afghan men, women and children and dragged the Afghan nation to the bloodiest war in the history of Afghanistan.
     After the invasion, Russia increased the number of its troops in Afghanistan and also for further reinforcement, recruitment policies were followed by calling Russian youth to be sent for basic training to military centres (eight to ten weeks) or sergeant schools (six months) in different parts of Russia. After graduation and taking their military oath, the Afghanis-tan-bourid recruij^ were sent to assembly points near several large Central Asian cities, including Asbakhabad, Tashkent and Dushanmbe and from there they were flown to Afghanistan.
       !
     Of these Soviet recruits, some of them voluntary opted for Afghanistan for military service and , some of them were forced to serve ‘'in Afghanistan. Voluntary because in Russia a lieutenant’s salary increases from ,210 to 600 Rubles upon transfer to Afghanistan with some other facilities. In addition, one year of service in Afghanistan is said to be equivalent to three
 years service in Russia. The advantages of service in Afghanistan for the Soviet officers are summarised by a former soldier as follows:
    "In the Soviet Union, officers are concerned with regulations. Here, in Afghanistan, the officers who come are interested only in money. For those who serve in Afghanistan, two years are equivalent to six years in the Soviet Union. There you have to wait six years for promotion - here only two but with three times the salary. So only the greedy people are volunteers for Afghanistan."
    On the other hand the volunteers are those who are sent to Afghanistan as a form of punishment. Four such servicemen who were sent to Afghanistan because of transgression against military regulations had told their stories after their captivity at the hands of the Mujahideen:
    One of them had become a sergeant and had served more than a year in an airborne unit in the Baltic military district when he was arrested for being AWOL for three years. Normally, he would have been court-marshalled and sent to the penal battalion, but instead, he was transferred to a motorised rifle unit of Afghanistan.
    Another soldier, a recruit whose entire training unit of chemical reconnaissance specialist was sent to the Soviet forces in Germany, was kept behind with sevtral others because of "bad behaviour". Soon thereafter, he was flown to Kabul.
    A third respondent has complained his case that their unit was sent to Fergana to help with workers on a Kalkhozc. Many units were being used for work at that
 i
10