   In February 1982, number of the resistance, with a considerable knowledge of Soviet had told a foreign reporter that the Soviets were using irritants, and hullucinogenic gas, which was an opparent powdery nerve gas. He described the “nerve agent” as an off-white powdery substance dispersed from helicopters generally during artillery or bombing attacks. Victims realize they have been exposed to chemical attack only when they become faint and dizzy. Subsequently, they begin to vomit, and bleed from the eyes, nose and mouth. Death occure within a short time. The dead bodies are extremely relaxed with no evidence of rigor mortis. Flesh and skin frequently peel off if an effort is made to move the bodies. However, the survivors suffer after effect for
            •f
 about 6 months, including chest congestion and pain, dizziness, and mental agitation. Many servivors of chemical attacks in. Afghanistan face exhibited long-term health problems described in this account.
    Chemical defence battalions standard in all Soviet divisions are deployed with three Soviet motorized rifle divisions at Kundus, shindand, and Kabul. Soviets personnel using chemical weapons have been observed wearing chemical protective and use chemical decontamination equipments. .
     THE CONFESSIpN OF SOVIET CHEMICAL EXPERT .
     A Soviet^ military chemical
  M
 DECEMBER, 1987
 specialist, captured earlier by Mujahideen, gave his name as Yuri Povarinitsyn from Sverdlovesk; During an interview said that his mission was to examine villages after a chemical attack to determine whether they were safe to enter or required decontamination. It has also been reported that the Soviet Chemical warfare personnel visit the contiminated areas to collect soil vegetation and water samples after Soviet chemical attacks. According to first hand experience of farmer Soviet chemical personnel, the Soviet do not require decontamination equipment in an area where chemical bombs are stored or loaded on to aircraft.
    The Soviet Union has stocked a variety of toxic chemical agents and munitions to meet wartime contingencies weapons systems capable of delivering chemical munitions available to Soviet forces in Afghanistan include artillery,
 . multiple rocket launchers and tactical aircrafts.
    “And a result of chemical attaqks, 3,042^deaths attributed to 47 seperate incidents between the summer of 1979 and the Summer of 1981 have been reported. “Anjflysis of all the information available leads to this conclusion the sources said, adding that sub-stances used included iritants, incapac-itants, nerve agents, phos->■ phene and perhaps mycotox-ing and mustared.
                                                                                                 It has b£en further added that Afghan military defectors
______________;-----------------
                  '19
 had provided information on Soviet use of a chemical weapons containing deadly nerve agents, including where they were stock piled and when and where they had been used.
    In September, 1982, when a Soviet soldier, Anatoly Mikhailovich Sakharov, from Saransk in the Moldavina Republic, was captured by Mujahideen, said in his interview that although he himself has not taken part in CBW operation, he has seen the weapons stored at both Kabul and Kunduz airbases. Sakharov, said he was an eye — witness of Soviet personnel returning from CBW operation who had themselves been affected, one of them suffered from eye damage.
    The first two agents he said to form a dense, yellowish cloud over a target and choked or asphyxiated their victims. The First he called picrine, possibly a compound including picric acide, and this, he said, caused 20 percent fatalities among those affected. The second agent, Sakharov called “Oedoesha-yshe”, which have caused three fatalities out of every 10 people affected in the target area. The third agent he called “smirch” which killed everyone it affected. “Smirch” blackened the flesh of its victims.
                      t
    Sakharov alleged the three agents were stored in liquid form in cylinders marked "propan” and they created a
LIBERATION FRONT