   It was because of their great sense of patriotism and indominitable spirit of Jehad that a superpower like the Soviet was forced to ponder as how to solve this issue. “They think as to what would be the fate of those who are toeing their line in Afghanistan,” he said. He wondered” whether the Afghan Mujahideen will spare them and whether Communist interests in Afghanistan will survive.”
   The President said the only people and country which should worry about Afghanistan’s future were the Afghan themselves and none else. The choice for a future set up of a government should be the sole prerogative of the people of Afghanistan themselves, he said, “In this,_Tneither Pakistan should have any concern nor any other country”, he added.
   In regard to subversive activities in Pakistan, Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq said,” that the Soviet thought that the Afghan issue could not be solved military and therefore adopted a different course of intimidating and coercion, by subjecting Pakistan’s territory to attacks, bombing and subversion in the areas where Afghan refugees were housed
 and other Parts of Pakistan But they faild in their attempt to cow down the people of Pakistan.
                         i
   He said their latest oper-andi was to create a. wedge between the “Ansars”.(Locals) and Muhajireen so that Pakis-
 tan’s would start doubting the Afghan refugees. The President said that in the event of a bomb blast both people of Pakistan and Afghan refugees suffered, but the public were made to believe that subversion was committed by the refugees.
   These elements would succeed in their aim only when they were able to make the people believe that Afghan refugees were involved in subotage activities, which was not so, he said.
   The President said that the bomb blasts had made some people in Pakistan to believe that Pakistan’s policy on Afghanistan issue was wrong and that Pakistan-should abandon, it and have direet talks with the puppet regime in Afghanistan.
   Pakistan, he said, was pursuing a correct policy and had taken a principled stand on Afghanistan,
   The enemy of Pakitan, President said wanted to create,a wro'ng^impression in the minds of the people of Pakistan in order to divert their attention and solid support to the Afghan people.
       i
   President Zia-ul-Haq, urged the people to beware of these elements and frustrate their designs. He asked them 'to have little more patience because there was a time when God Almighty tested the patience of the people and made them to bear only that
 much burden which they were capable of.
   He said it was his faith that both the people of Pakistan and Afghanistan would emerge successful as a respectable solution of the issue would be found shortly. Till then they should show patience, have regard for refugees, and extend the same measure of hospitality which they have been doing for the past eight years, he said.
   Addressing a representative tribal Jirga (meeting) in Raz-mak, North Waziristan on November 17, the President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, referring to Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, siad, this is part of Soviet expansionist designs which had been pursuing since the Czarist regime.
   He recalled that the Soviet usurpted Muslim areas like Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan which used to be the seats of Islamic learning.
   The President said, afraid of Islamic renaissance in Pakistan and Iran, the Soviet invaded Afghanistan to check this Islamic lava. He said, out of population of one-and-half crore of Afghanistan three million Afghan refugees are in Pakistan, two million in Iran, one million in a number of European countries and dhe million had fallen martyred in armed struggle against Soviet occupation.
   President Zia-ul-Haq said Pakistan wanted to see Af-
1 ■                                       J —
LIBERATION FRONT                           34                        _ DECEMBER, 1987
            I