These ruins are the evidence of the Russian barbarism in Afghanistan.
 you the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan once again showed the whole world that the forehead which bows only for the glorious God will not surrender to any super power. That human forehead, that Muslim forehead which bows to the Almighty God will not surrender to any one but by the orders of the Great God. All Islamic and human rights and even the rights of animals were violated by the Communists; Russians and some Afghan atheists. Every Afghan has suffered, every family has suffered more than one million of our people have been martyred. Our wounded and disabled reach hundreds of thousands. How many refugees do we have all over the world. All this sacrifice is made so that we can get our real objectives i.e. establishing the rule of Almighty God and Islam. In Afghanistan the strength of Shariat-i-Mohammadi must rule. In dear Afghanistan humanity and morality and dignity should be restored. We want to show the world that Islam and Islamic understanding is very deep and real. We want that the people of Afghanistan, the young, the old, women and men alike and without exception remain honoured with real Islamic belief that “No one is worthy of worship but Allah and Mohammad is His Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)”. They should have the freedom to continue their belief in that God the Almighty has all the attributes and is clean of all problems and- defects. The Great God has no partner. He
is the only creator of the Universe. The whole world and beings are under His power. He has given a small part of his Power to the Universe. World super powers are a small fragment of His power. This is all a small part of His attributes that He has given to the world.
We believe in the real super power, the Glorious God, So we say “No one is worthy of worship but He who is the most exalted”. We want our children, our Youth and our Men and Women to remain enlightened with this belief. Be sure, that no airplanes, tanks or material power will be able to remove this belief from our hearts and bodies. We want to show it practically that the Islamic conduct which we want to maintain shall revive the first century, the second centry and the third century which the Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him) said “the best century is my century and-that which is near me”. The Prophet (Peace Be
 Upon Him) said that by centuries he meant those who lived during that century, and whose morals and behaviour we should study in History and Ahadis. We should see those of his companion's that he trained in a short time. They carried the glowing Flag of Islam to all places. Allah the Almighty     says       about them
 “God is pleased with them and   they    are     pleased with
 God”. The Prophet (Peace be Upon Him) says about his companions “Be intelligent about my companions.
   No other men like them have come in human history except the Prophets.
   We want the morals of those learned Dignitaries to prevail in Afghanistan. Each Muslim should feel that he is a special servant of God. That there are orders and forbidden acts  for us and be incumbent
 by   the orders and         avoid
 committing the forbidden
13
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT