 the role played by President Gen. Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq for the betterment of the country.
 U.KCs APPEAL
   In an appeal marking the seventh anniversary since Soviet forces invaded Afghanistan, Sir Geoffrey, the British Foreign Secretary said that more than 110,000 troops were waging war of bitter suppression.
   ‘•The Russians are trying to keep the realities of this war a secret. They talk of withdrawal, instead they and their client regime have only itensi-fied the war, Sir Geoffrey said.
 WEST GERMANY:.
   Speaking on seven years of war in Afghanistan, the Federal German Foreign Minister, Mr. Hans Dietrich Ges-cher said “Moscow’s willingness to pursue a policy detente depends largely on its readiness to bring the war in Afghanistan to an end”.
   The continuing persecution of the Afghan people cannot be accepted by the international community. Since 27th December 1979, the people of Afghanistan are suffering a steadfast opposi-tioa They are not bowing down to a superpower which has trampled over the principles of international law, non-alignment and national sovereignty of other people.
   Similarly the General Sec-
retary of the CDU (Major coalition party) Mr. Heiner Giessier in Bonn has observed that the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan was the major criterion for determining policy of detente with the Western world. He deplored that the hopes which were associated with the arrival of Mikhail Gorbachev in Kremlin have not yet been fulfilled.
   According to the German Politicians the issue of Afghanistan remains the major stumbling block in improving the East-West relations. The war carried in Afghanistan is tantamount to a general massacre of the whole people and is contradictory to the Kremlin leader’s assertion such as calling a conference in Moscow on the question of human rights.
   The Chief Minister of Bavaria and President of CSU Party, Josef Strauss, has also strongly criticised the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. He said it was terrible that after seven years of invasion, children, women and men were being massacred at the “cruel dictates and inhuman actions of the Soviet forces”, while they wanted to follow and defend their own rights of national and religious self-determination against the imposition of a Communist ideology”.
   British Foreign Minister Howe, speaking on behalf of the European Community and the rest of the world are
 looking forward to an earlier and complete withdrawal of the Soviet troops”.
 ‘MOSCOW SERIOUS ABOUT GETTING OUT OF AFGHANISTAN’
   OTTAWA, March 16 : A Canadian correspondent in Moscow says the signs are “increasing that Moscow is serious about getting out of Afghanistan” and that the Soviet Government “now recognises implicitly” that the Afghan “invasions was a terrible mistake”.
   Christopher Young, correspondent in Moscow of the 15 newspapers of the Southam chain in Canada, wrote that “the outlines of a possible settlement of the seven-year war are taking shape.” Young
 is one of Canada’s most respected newspaperman.
   His report published in the “Ottawa Citizen” and other south papers with Moscow-dateline said :
   “When a Western Ambassa dor asked a high Soviet Foreign Ministry official what kind of solution the Soviet Union is looking for in Afghanistan, the answer came in one word : “Finalnd.”
   Suggestions that the Finish model could be the answer carry the Soviet position a long wily from where it was
MAY - JUNE - JULY 4:198?           LIBERATION FRONT