                                                                                                                    8 *.
                                                                                                          V*" fa -’•Wa 1*87 31*
                                                                                                                    , 4i4%&&C.iMfa* #
                                                                                                                   l yit^W)S^<UA Q>~g. i*> rt
Local Carrier was capable to accommodate two persons at a time.
                                       Dr. Hashmatullah Mojaddedi piloting new Rope Carrier on Kunar river in the inaugural ceremony.
  Rope Carrier on Kunar
    ■f
          River Inaugurated
   From strategic point of view Kunar is an important Province of . Afghanistan, which is mountainous and rocky area, laying 2000 metre above Sea level. The minimum temperature slightly goes down below zero from 1 C° to —2 C° in the winter season, and the maximum temperature is not more than 32C° to 350° in summer. It is a windy area during fall and winter season, and has a semi-dry climate. The flow of water in Kunqr- River decrease during winter and overflows in summer. The only means for the/ inhabited of the area to cross the river was a local rope carrier,
called also (zango) wliere more than 4000, people and about 3000, animals were crossing the river per month. Most of the inhabitants are farmers, growing “ corn, wheat, barly and different types of fruits and beans.
   In April of 19-79, when Taraki was in power, the puppet government troops in the presence of Soviet military advisers massacred more than , thousand men and boys •in the village of Kerala in this Province, because they would not shput their slogans in support of the Communist regime, and were therefore machine-guned.
    Subsequently, Commander Abdyrrauf Khan of the Afghan armi Brigade in Asmar surrendered to Mujahideen killing all Khalq-Parcham Communist military officers in the Brigade, including the Governor of Kunar, Province who was also shot dead. Thus there was a general uprise in Kunar against the Soviet troops.. The serious problems for, the Mujahideen was how to cross the Kunar river to attack the Soviet-Kabul troops as tht* only alternative for them was local boats, rope-carriers, and suspension bridges for acrossing the river. The Soviet forces made heavy bombardment of
LIBERATION FRONT
21
DECEMBER, 1987