 Khan on the throne at Kabul. The Executive Board of the Muslim conference in its Lahore Session in December 1929 hailed Nadir Khan’s accession to power in Afghanistan and four years later Allama Iqbal accompanied by Syed Sulaiman Nadvi and Ress Masood visited Kabul to advise the Afghans on the essentials of modern education in an Islamic society. The Afghans found a prominent place in Iqhal’s thought and his Masnavi “Mussafir” is addressed to them. Nadir Shah’s death was woefully mourned by the All India Muslim League in its Delhi Session in November, 1933. And in 1934, when Afghanistan joined the League of Nations, Sir Agha Khan (Sultan Mohammad), the Indian government’s representative, welcomed Afghanistan’s entry to this body on behalf of the Indian people in general and “eighty million Muslims of
India” in particular. It was at about this time that some young Indian Muslim students (Chaudhury Rahmat Ali, Aslam Khattak etc) at Cambridge were writing their pamphlet, “Now or Never” a dream land of Pakistan in which Afghanistan fountf and manifest position. A large number of Indian Muslims served with missionary zeal for considerable years in Afghanistan, on insignificant remunerations as it was a service to Islam and their own kith and kin.
   The movement for Pakistan within the sub-continent of India was shaping itself to reality and in 1940, at Lahore the Muslims of India delineated the future boundaries of the state of Pakistan A forty-member contingent led by Sardar Aurangzeb Khan from N.W.F.P. participated in it and vowed to struggle for Muslim homeland within India to be
 called Pakistan. The struggle ultimately succeeded and the Muslim State of Pakistan came to being on 14th August 1947.
   Being two neighbouring countries, Pakistan has considerable historic and cultural interest in Afghanistaa Pakistan, besides this under the present circumstances has beenexpansioato three major threats:
 i. Ideological.
 ii. Hegemonial
 iii. Super Power Entangiem ent.
 Ideological Threat: Pak ,-t.in
 emerged on the map ot the world, by the partition of India, on account of its Muslim public’s ideological differences with the rest of the population of India. It can survive as long as it adheres to its ideologycal preservation, failing which it will either wither into petty states or re-emerge into India. The Soviet presence in Afghanistan and her ambitions to transfer Afghanistan to a communist, anti-religious, atheistic and ideology-imposing state, constitutes a terrible threat to the state of Pakistaa The communist ideology carries behind it a vast Soviet propaganda and war-machine and smaller states like Pakistan can hardly escape its socio-political thrust. The Soviets are not shy in their mission to propagate and advance communism amongst world public through every means available to them. Ideology plays vital role in their state and public planning and Pakistan, as such, will remain vulnerable, as its society is
In the refugee camps, the children ask their parents, when they will return to Afghanistan.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
16