 came under discussion.
    Mr. Saeed Akhtar appreciated the role of the ‘Ocken-don Venture’ for providing quilts and marketing facilities to the products of Afghan regugees. Lord Ennals assured that their assistance on humanitarian )basis would continue till the return of Afghan refugees to their homeland with honour and dignity.
                                               MUJAHIDEEN - USSR TALKS ONLY SOLUTION
    new york; Nov. is.-
 Former King Mohammad Zahir Shah says a political solution in Afghanistan could only be achieved through direct talks between the Soviet Union and Afghan Mujahideen who have been fighting Soviet troops for almost eight years. 1 ,
    The 73-year-old king, who is being mentioned as the possible leader of a government that would oversee an end to the Soviet occupation and a transition to independence, made that point in •an interview published in the] New York Times.
    As for his own role, he said, “it is up to the Afghan nation to assign the role I will have to accomplish in the future.”
    The interview by Times Correspondent Roberto Suro took place in ^dm^wbwes the King has beeiy'^hHilg tir;
 on specific diplomatic initiatives, he made it clear that he would not be a party to an agreement that offered the Soviet Union political gains for its 1979 intervention in Afghanistan.
   In the first week of November the Times quoted an unnamed        administration
 official as saying that concessions to the Afghan communists may be necessary to speed a Soviet withdrawal. But the King insisted that the Soviet-backed Kabul regime was not a legitimate representative of the Afghan people and should not be allowed to share power after Moscow troops withdraw.
   As for ties with superpowers, the King said an independent Afghanistan would “pursue our traditional policy of neutrality and non-alignment having good neighbourly relations with all countries in the region.
   The United States, he said, assisted Afghan in fighting for "freedom and human dignity” after the Soviet intervention and* it has a m^jor influential role to play in helping insure a Soviet withdrawal. But, on these points as on all policy issues, he said he1 was offering only his impressions because final decisions will reflect the consensus of Afghan nationalist forces.
                                                  WALDHEIM VISITED
 exile fpr the last l^vears. GANDAF REFUGEE CAMP:
              ! ’J/WA
   While avoiding comments k /
    Austrian’s President Kurt
*rr
 DECEMBER, 1987
 Waldheim, while accompanied by President Gen Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq, and Governor Faida Mohammad Khan of NWFP, and Brig (Retd) Fahim-ullah Khatak Commissioner Afghan Refugees NWFP -Peshawar visited Gandaf Refugee camp, on 24th November, 87.
   Speaking at the Gandaf Afghan refugee camp. President Waldheim said that Austria would continue to provide humanitarian assistance for Afghan refugees because “your future is the
 future of the free world.”
                       *1
   He said Austria had been rendering such help since the beginning of the crisis in Afghanistan. He added: “This will continue until you are able to return to your country in freedom and independence.”
   President Waldheim said Austria felt proud to provide medical care for Afghan refugees in Pakistan. He said: “You may rest assured of our further contribution to the humanitarian field in coopera; tion with the Government and the people of Pakistan.”
   President Kurt Waldheim said that the Government and the people of Austria were fully aware of the sufferings sustained by the Afghfln refugees. He said they were facing all these hardships because of their love for freedom and independence.
   He paid rich tributes to President General Mohammad
41
LIBERATION FRONT