  Jihad Fronts in Brief
    Soviet since its military intervention in Afghanistan, in 1979, on one hand express its willingness to solve the Afghan dispute through peaceful negotiation, and withdraw its troups from Afghanistan, but, on the other, Soviet with the help of its poppet regime in Afghanistan, backing sabotage activities in the region, and also against the Afghan Mujahideen. Besides bringing fresh troops and modern sophisticated weapons to Afghanistan. This deference in her words and action shows that instead of solving the Afghan issue, Soviet provide further ground for her expansionist policy in the region. In such circumstances, all efforts and negotiations in the United Nations and Islamic Foreign Minister Conferences, towards peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue seem to be fruitless.
    For this reason, the Afghan Mujahideen are not prepared to be trapped by any so-called peact offer, rather they are determined to continue their Jehad against the invaders, untill they liberate their homeland. So far the Soviet with all her atrocities committed against the Afghan freedomfighters and civiliansfias completely failed to crush the spirit of Afghan Mujahideen. Perhaps, Soviet has forgotten the universal truth that the spirit of freedom cannot be crushed through force and cruelty.
    We do not understand that why the Soviet authorities have forgotten the principles of self-Jetermination, and the right of independence for the Afghan people, whereas they were the staunch supporters of this rights for the freedom fighters of Vietnam and some other countries. But they must not forget the historical fact that the United States of Amierica with all her power, force, and strengthen, when realised her failure, withdraw her forces without prescribing any conditions or guarantees, from Vietnam. Similarly, the Soviet with all her military might would not be able to crush the resistance movement of the Afghan Mujahideen, and would certainly be defeated. The only alternative for Soviet is to withdraw her troops from Afghanistan and save her face before the world.
    The Soviet casualties since its war in Afghanistan are increasing day by day, and Russians soldiers who are forced by Kremline Leaders to fight in Afghanistan, are losing their interest in war and some of them whenever get chance surrender to Mujahideen.
               t
    The use,of surface to air missiles by Mujahideen during the last one year, has brought superiority of Soviet Air Force to an end.
    In many areas now tighter Planes seldom reach for assistance of Soviet infantry And
DECEMBER, 1987
28
LIBERATION FRONT