land forces against the Afghan Mujahideen.
   SOVIETS’ ADOPTED NEW STRATEGY:
   According to reliable sources, the Soviets’ aircraft now fly in a high attitude throughout Afghanistan particularly over Mujahideen basis. The new strategy was aimed at to safe the Soviet planes from Mujahideen’s anti-aircraft guns and sophisticated weapons. It has been reported that accordding to new strategy the fighter planes fly on intensive height while bombing the rural localities in the night instead of the broad daylight.
   Supporting the report of Mujahideen supremacy in their defence against the Soviet air-attacks, the Voice of Germany said that Mujahideen are now countering the air supremacy of the Soviet Union and the Kabul regime. The Mujahideen the radio added, are achieving significant success in their armed struggle as compared to the past. BY having new anti-
 aircraft not only defence capability of Mujahideen has increased but their morale has also been boosted up.
   The radio said Pakistan has been tolerating border violations for a long time but by deciding to take protective steps it had shot down a Soviet made aircraft of Kabul air force during last days which was flying in the Pakistani airspace near Para-chinar. Despite this incident it appears from the stand and attitude adopted by Pakistan so far, that it does not want the war to expand, the radio said.
   Similarly, “The New York Times“ said it is not difficult to assess as to why the Soviet planes, flown by Kabul regime pilots, are attacking Pakistan any territory across the border. Their objective is to cow down Pakistan. Intensifying eight years long war in Afghanistan, Moscow expects that in this way it would force Pakistan to accept Soviet condition for peace. But this
has never been shaken the principled stand of Pakistan in regard to the problem of Afghanistan.
       SOVIET REINFORCE CANNOT STRENGTH HER MILITARY POSITION IN AFGHANISTAN’
   The Kremlin leaders have sent a fresh annoured division comprising of 15,000 troops including a mountianous brigade.
   It has further been reported that fresh Soviet consignment was drawn by 14 transport planes daily between May 21 to 27 at Kabul and Jalalabad airports.
   *;cording to the reports, besides land forces 1,500 tanks armoured cars,heavy rang guns,trucks and jeeps are including in fresh deployment
   The main objectives of the new deployment of the invading troops to adopt a deciding strategy in Afghan provinces lying on the eastern borders.
   On arrival in Kabul, these fresh Soviet troops were immediately sent to Gardez, the headquarter of Paktia province.
   The reinforce of Soviet troops attacked the. Shaha-dat Centre of Mujahideen on May 20, where the invading troops had to retreat carrying 45 bodies of their commandos. Ten Mujahideen were also martyred.
   This year from January to
29
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT