LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
ghanistan Day throughout the World peace loving nations.
   The Islamic government of Afghanistan on this auspicious day held conferences and extended its profound gratitude to the Muslim Ummah and peace loving nations who always shared the pleasure and grief of Afghan Mujahid Nation and supported the cause of Jehad in Afghanistan particularly for the declaration of 21st March as Afghanistan Day.
   The Islamic government presented its greetings and compliments on the occasion of New year 1369 (S.H.) to the Mujahid Nation of Afghanistan and offered prayers
for their prosperity and success. It also offered condolences to the bereaved families of the martyred Mujahideen and remembered those Mujahid brothers who have been imprisoned by the puppet regime in Afghanistan merely on the ground of their Islamic faith, belief and principles.
   It is hoped that the New Year of 1369 would bring happiness and prosperity to the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan and the Holy Jehad would successfully continue against the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul until an Islamic government in accordance with the wishes of the Muslim and Mujahid nation of Afghanistan is established.
CRIMINALS ARE ALWAYS CRIMINALS
   The Cabinet of the Islamic government of Afghanistan held a meeting on March 7, presided by Hazrat Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mujaddedi, president of the Islamic government of Afghanistan. The cabinet considered the coup attempt pf Khalq against Parcham for the toppling of Najib puppet government in Kabul, as the internal fight between Khalq and Parcham. The cabinet of the Islamic government declared both of them (Khalq and Parchamjas the enemy of Islam. The Islamic government further declared that"Neither we are ready to stand in one rank with the communists nor to live under a joint administrationwith them."
   Similarly, Prof. Abdul Rub Rasool Sayyaf, Prime minister of the Islamic government of Afghanistan, iri his press conference held in Peshawar on March 10, made it clear that no Mujahid affiliated to 1 his six party government, was extending any help to Shahnawaz Tanai’s forces who were fighting to overthrow Najib. Thus a man
 who was yesterday the enemy of Islam and has committed crimes against Muslims, how could he be considered today a friend of the Muslims and the supporter of Mujahideen. It may be recalled that in the coup of 1978, the main leading mutineers were Pacha-gul- Wafadar, Faiz-Moham-,mad and Shanawaz Tanai and some other military officers belonged to Khalq-Par-cham factions. On seizing the power, the so called revolutionary government, apprehended former cabinet ministers, members of parliament, university professors, military officers, educationists, intellectuals and religious scholars. The interrogation team headed by Pachaegul-wafadar, and Faiz-Muhammed ministers of Trihal affairs and Interior ministry respectively started brutalities and inhuman treatment against all the political prisoners.
                                                                    Some of the political prisoners, including Muhammed Hasham Maiwand-wal, former prime minister, were killed by j’acha gul wafadar and Faiz Muhammed,.
 /
5