     whenever they are called for assistance, they drop bombs from so high altitude that their target is missing. In the place of helicopter-gunships, now the Soviet-Kabul troops use artillery so indiscriminately in certain areas that many villages are destroyed on the doubt of being stronghold of Mujahideen.
           Due to the capability of Mujahideen in the use of anti-tank mines, grenades launchers and ground to air missiles, Soviet-Kabyl troops do not dare to enter in the Mujahideen strongholds before the artillery shelling :
   A Soviet soldier, Yanu-weshet Alexander Prepowesh, 19, of Tashkent Uzbakistan, defected to the Afghan Mujahideen, has told in his interview that before coming to Afghanistan, his mother advised him not to fight against the Afghan Mujahideen. In Logar Province where he defected to Mujahideen on September 1, worked as a wireless operator with the Soviet garrison based in Baraki Barak.
   Alexander said that his mother was a Muslim and his father was a Communist. He told that he has been graduated from the arms manufacturing institute in Tashkent.
   “When I was to be despatched to Kabul, my mother asked me not to fight Mujahideen and help them.’’ “So, according to my mother’s advice, I defected to the Mujahideen” Alexander told.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN SHOT DOWN SOVIET GUNSHIP:
   Mujahideen have shot down a Soviet helicopter-gunship besides shelling the Khost cantonment in Pakfiy Province, on September 'll. The helicopter crashed near Khost, killing the. pilot and the crew on the spot.-The same day Mujahideen shelled the Khost
LIBERATION FRONT.
 cantonment by heavy guns and mortors as a result the military installations and a barrack caught fire.
                                              KABUL NOT SECURED FROM MU/AHIDEEN ATTACKS:
   Afghan Mujahideeh advanced towards Kbaul from Pagh-man and attacked a Kabul army post near Kargha on September 20. The freedom fighters mined the area between Paghman town and the lake of Kargha, west of Kabul. They further advanced close to Kabul, after the failure of Soviet operation to destroy Mujahideen strong-
29
holds. The report said the Soviet military units concentrated at the biggest Soviet military base in the south of Kabul. But the invading troops were pushed back by Mujahideen from the base where supply and defence became difficult by the enemy. Mujahideen used better kind of anti-air defence, in the ambush.
   Similarly, Mujahideen launched a combined attack on the camp in the KhakM-Jabar area close to Bagrami town on the south of Kabul in the first week of October, blew up a tank and an armoured personnel carrier, killing the
DECEMBER, 1987