 been rejected by the Afghan people. Every day the resistance grows in strength. It is an indispensable party in the quest for a negotiated solution, Mr. Reagan observed.
    Mr. Reagan oxhorted the world community to continue to insist on genuine self-determination, prompt and full Soviet withdrawal, and the return of the regugees to their homes in safety and honour. The attempt may be made to pressure a few countries to change their vote this year, but this body, he was confident, will vote overwhel-migly, as every year before, for Afghan independence and freedom. He further said: “We have noted General Secretary Gorbachev’s statement of readiness to withdraw. In April, I asked the Soviet Union to set. a date this year when this withdrawal would begin. I repeat that request now in this forum for peace.
 1 pledge that, once the Soviet Union shows convincingly that it’s ready for a genuine political settlement, the United States is ready to be helpful.
    The time, Mr. Reagan gave to the Afghanistan problem in his 30-minute speech at the world forum indicates the amount of concern he has for the plight of Afghan people.
    President Reagan called on the Soviet Union to set a date for the withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan
                        9
                       i   /
    “It’s time for the Soviet Union to leave (Afghanistan)” the President said.
    His wide-ranging speech co-
  vered global and regional conflicts, including the Gulf war and Afghanistan.
    Mf. Reagan said that the Kabul regime proposals were in fact aimed at ensuring the perpetuation of its power
    “The world community must continue to insist on genuine self-determination, prompt and full Soviet withdrawal, and the return of refugees to their homes in safety and honour.” President Reagan said.
    Le me add one final note on this matter. President Regan said,” Pakistan, in the face of enormous pressure and intimidation, has given sanctuary to Afghan refugees. We salute the courage of Pakistan and the Pakistani people. They desire strong support from all of us.”
                                               INCREASED U S. SUPPORT TO MUJAHIDEEN PLEDGED
    WASHINGTON, Nov. 13: President Reagan pledged increased U.s. support for Afghart Mujahideen fighting Soviet forces in Afghanistan and said the Soviet military ’ presence was a barrier to improve Soviet-American relations.
     Mr Reag made his remarks to five Afghan Mujahideen leaders headed by their new Chairman, Sheikh Maulavi Yunis Khalis. They were in Washington 'following this week’s adoption of a United Nations Resolution calling for
 a Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan.
   “The support that the United States has been providing will be strengthened rather than diminished so that it can continue to fight effectively for freedom.”
                                              U.S TO SEND AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN MORE ARMS
   The U.S. Government has decided to send Afghan Mujahideen fighting Soviet occupation long-range mortars and mine-clear equipment, the Washington Post reported on Sept. 21
   The Post, quoting Government and other sources, said the decision to send the heavy 120-millimeter mortars and explosive cords to clear a path through minefields was made because Washington is not convinced Moscow is ready to withdraw an estimated 1 15,000 Soviet troops from Afghanistan.
   Representative Charles Wilson, a Democrat from Texas who is a strong supporter of U.S. aid to the Afghan freedom fighters, told the Post the equipment would arrive in Afghanistan “by the time snow falls” there, which is usually in October or November.
                           %
   The United States earlier this year sent hundreds of missiles to the Mujahideen who used them effectively against Soviet aircraft.
   The Mujahideen have asked
DECEMBER, 1987
37
LIBERATION FRONT