take our own freedom for granted; all free nations must do what they can to preserve liberty from assault. Let us pledge at this joyless anniversary marking seven years of Soviet occupation to renew our efforts in seeking together a free and independent Afghanistan and peace on earth.”
HUMPHREY GOUT IONS AGAINST AFGHAN RECONCILIATION GOVERNMENT
   WASHIGTON, March 1 : Republican Senator Gordon J. Hamphrey has cautioned that the so-called Government of national reconciliation in Afghanistan would not entail complete withdrawal of the Soviet forces from that country and self-determination by the Afghan people. “It would result in the Sovieti-sation” of the Muslim nation.
   The Senator .who heads a bipartisan congressional task force on Afghanistan was discussing the prospects of the current round of U.N. sponsored Geneva talk's on the Afghan crisis in his second meeting within three weeks with the area newsmea
   The task force which consists of 11 Senators and 13 members of the House of Representatives was formed in 1985 to heighten public awareness of the suffering of the Afghan people and to find ways to assist the Afghans in their struggle against the Soviet occupation.
   Referring to the recent statements by some former and incumbent U.S. officials about the idea of a government of reconciliation he said, “I reject all of this talk as hypocritical, cowardly and cynical”
   He said we must staind by the original criterion that is complete withdrawal of Soviet forces and the ’process of true self determination for the people of Afghanistan. “Anything less than that”, the Senator warned “is a cowardly sellout of the Afghan people and a tragic throwing away of seven years of monumental sacrifice on the part of the Afghan people”.
   Senator Humphery emphasised : “We want to see this war to be brought to a quick close, that is why I am complaining so much against my Government and urging it for much stronger efforts to get the Soviets out of Afghanistan as soon as possible”. The suggestion that some of the Americans want to bleed the Soviet Union instead of seeking a just soluton was described by Senator Humphery as incorrect and cynical.
 AFGHANS TO EMERGE TRIUMPHANT
   PESHAWAR               A
 three-member Egyptian Red Crescent delegation led by Mr. Mohsenel-Badravi, Under Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has said that the relentless struggle of the Afghan refugees to liberate their country from foreign
 occupation, has won them support of the Muslim world.
   This ne said, while addressing a gathering of Afghan refugees at Akora Khattak refugee tentage village on March 20. He stressed +be need for forging unity among their ranks and assured them that they would emerge triumphant in their holy war as they were fighting for the cause of Islam.
   Mr. Bradravi also made a token distribution of tents among the refugees. Explaining the goodwill gesture of the Egyptian people he spelt out that these 500 tents which include some very big tents for housing mosques.
   Schools and dispensaries were donated by their brothers in Egypt and assured that the people and Government of Egypt would continue their assistance for the refugees in Pakistan till their safe and honourable return to their homeland.
   Mr. Saad Du raid, Minister in the Egyptian Embassy at Islamabad, also spoke on the occasion.
                 THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY URGES SOVIET TO QUITE AFGHANISTAN:
   The foreign mmister of the Republic of Germany Mr. Has Dietrich Genscher, in his statement on the seventh anniversary of the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan has said.
31                MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987          LIBERATION FRONT