LIBERATION FRONT
PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE ON EID-UL-FITAR.
 Continue from Page 15
     In piety and sanctity all good deeds morality and righteousness are involved. This holy month has got numerous advantages and benefits for mankind. It also purifies the soul and spirit of man, and keeps him in sound and perfect health. Prophet Mohammad (Peace and blessing of Allah be upon him) has said" The source of all knowledge and understanding is the fear of Almighty Allah, and piety. Islam has, therefore, attached more importance to piety and considered it as one of the prin-cipal goals of the month of Ramathan. Piety/sanctity is also one of the elements of worship and adoration of Almighty Allah.
                                                                                                           ’ Islam in accordance with its principles has fixed the month of Ramath^n to bl observed once in a by-every Muslim for the ^purification of his soul and spirit. This is the month of worship,
 ' players;1 blessing and submission to Almighty Allah. If these qualifications did not appear in a person after he has observed fasting in the month of Ramathan, it means he has not been benefited form the blessing df this Holy month.
     Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) has said" If a man during Ramathan did not succeed to give up the habit of telling lies and other evil and bad habits, then God Almighty is not in need of his hunger and thirst. His fasting will not be acceptable to Almighty Allah.
     However, man should not think that in the month of Ramathan, he may observe fasting, do'wqrship, piety £nd other righteousness but, after this njonth is over, he may be free to do any thing he \yishes. The piirpose of fasting in the month of
 Ramathan for a Muslim is, to develop the fear of God, piety and spirit of submission to God Almighty alone.
    The celebration of Eid after the passing of Ramathan is the offering of gratitude to Almighty Allah who enabled man to observe fasting and also for having fulfilled a heavy responsibility before Almighty Allah. On Eid day, all the Muslims in accordance with the principles of Islam are gathering in congregational Mosques and offering their prayers for remembering and thanking Almighty Allah.
    Our most happy and auspicious day, that will be, when we return to free Afghanistan and celebrate our Eid in an Islamic and peaceful atmosphere. On this auspicious occasion I congratulate you and pray Almighty Allah to accept our humble submission and compliance to Him. I also pray for the souls of our martyred brothers and for the liberation of our country.
    Mujahideen Organizations and the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan IIGA has announced that, those members of Khalq Par-cham factions wj^o regret their membership of Khalq Parcham and join Mujahideen ranks shall be pardoned, provided their hands are not stained with the blood of our Muslim brothers and they have no criminal record of killing Muslims. However, they would not be allowed to contest for the membership of the Shoora and also shall not be appointed in the important posts of the Islamic Government.
    In the Political field, your Islamic State and Interim government is in close contact with the United Nations, Islamic countries
                                                                       t
 --------------------y-------------
April, May-1990.
and with other peace and freedom loving nations for the settlement of the Afghan issue. Similarly, Islamic State and the Interim government of Afghanistan is in touch with the leaders of Mujahideen living in our Islamic brother country of Iran, asking them to actively participate in the settlement of the Afghan problem. It is hoped that the struggle and efforts of the Islamic State and Interim government in this regard will be fruitful.
    Moreover, Islamic State and Interim government are planning for the formation and convention of an Islamic and traditional "Loya Jirga" in which the elders, intellectuals and intelligentsia of Afghanistan will be participated. After convening Loya Jirga, we shall try to form an elected parliament.
    As you Know, there is acute shortage of food in Afghanistan. The Islamic State and Interim government therefore, endeavour to send sufficient food stuff to Afghanistan. In this regard we have
contacted United Nations and other concerned organizations in the world, for cooperation.
    Finally, once again I extend my congratulations and good wishes to my Afghan Muslim, sisters and brothers wherever they are residing. I also pray for the success of Mujahideen and for the liberation of Afghanistan.
    Wassalm-u-Alaikum Wa R^h-mat-u-llah Wa Barakatul.
                         )
  % Prof. Sibghatullah All-Mojad-dedi
    President of the Islamic State of Afghanistan.
29