HID AYATULLAH MATBEN
The Problem of Afghan Refugees
   Soon after the announcement of the proposal by the puppet regime of Kabul for ceasefire and coalition government with Afghan Mujahideen in the month of January, the Soviet backed Communist government of Afghanistan claimed that large number of refugees were returning to Afghanistan and a growing number of Mujahideen were surrendering.
   This baseless report of the puppet regime of Kabul was rebutted by the Foreign Office spokesman in Islamabad as propaganda by Kabul seeking projection of response to their suggestion. The spokesman said that the fact is that thousands of refugees have entering Pakistan every month adding to millions already in Pakistan. He further said that this propaganda is really motivated and deserve no attention.
   Similarly world media broadcasts expressed doubts about Kabul government’s claim that large number of Muhajireen were returning to
 Afghanistan and growing number of Mujahideen were surrendering.
    On the other hand some self interested people in the neighbouring States are expressing doubts about the returning of the Afghan refugees to their home land after the withdrawal of the Russian troops and the political settlement of the Afghan problem. Few are even attempting to create opinion that most of these Muhajireen will permanently settle, and would be nationalized in the host countries. There are also rumours spread out by some anti Islamic elements that Afghan refugees are the source of violation and sabotage activities in Pakistan.
    This question which has been propagated in the public, is well answered by the President of Pakistan General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq himself on various occasion, that “The Afghan Muslim people have not come to Pakistan for feast and enjoyment. But they have come to defend their faith, belief and to liberate their coun-
 try. The government of Pakistan has offered them shelter merely on humanitarian grounds, and the Muslim nation of Pakistan has embraced them with open hearts. He has pledged that Pakistan would continue to provide succour to Afghan Muhajireen till they were back home with honour and dignity. The President of Pakistan has also said that as long as the Afghan war will
 continue every Pakistani would support the Afghan brothern on the basis of Islamic brother-hood. In Afghanistan, every individual, men, women, old and young and even children were prepared to offer every sacrifice for the glory of Islam and their country.”
   In regard to sabotage activities in Pakistan for which some anti Pakistani elements are blaiming Afghan Muhajireen, the President General Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq addressing a group discussion of intellectuals for the security of National solidarity from internal dissensions and external
21
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT