LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 Vadium a Soviet soldier who was in the captivity of Afghan Mujahideen.
 tan, I learned to understand the entire Soviet government system, and I have learned to hate the violence that maii can exert over man. I left the army in hope of reaching the free world, where I can follow the dictates of my soul and not that knout.
    I have been in Afghanistan for six years. America is a freedom loving country which defends human rights. I ask you to kindly grant me political asylum.
    With great respect.
    /s/Igor Kovalchuk
    Those Soviet POWS who succeeded in deserting the Soviet Army and acquired asylum in the United States or the Western countries consider themselves the luckiest people among the Soviet
 citizens.
    Thus, the Sc" iet delegation, representing parents of the soviet POWS in the captivity of the Afghan Mujahideen, should contact their sons whether they are desirous to return to their country and join their army units in Russia, where itltfy have experienced inhuman treatment at the hands of their superior military officers.
    The parents of the Soviet POWS are also advised to let their sons determine their own fate, whether to return to their homeland and live as slaves or to live as free men in the free world and enjoy their privileges as POWS under the Geneva Convention.
    Moreover, the exchange of POWS take place after the termination of war on both sides. But in the present circumstances, the Afghan Jehad against the Soviets and their puppet regime in Afghanistan has not been concluded with the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan, because the Soviet military advisers and pilots are still present in Afghanistan.
    Besides, the Soviet troops, during their military invasion on Afghanistan, have committed war crimes against Mujahideen and also against the innocent Afghan civilians contrary to the principles of the Geneva Contention, for which they may be held responsible. The Soviet authority in Kabul has transferred thousands of minoris and school children, without fhe consent of their parents, to Moscow for brainwashing. In the 10 year war, 40,000
 Afghan people are also missing who may either be in the prisons of the N:ijib regime or may be in the captivity of the Soviet authorities in some unknown places. The Afghan mothers also have the right to know about their children and Mujahid sons for whom they have been waiting for the last ten years.
    In this regard, talking to the Soviet delegation which went to Washington to seek the help of the I ’ .S. authorities in the release of the Soviet POWS in the captivity of the Afghan Mujahideen, Mr. D. Rader, a member of the U.S. House of the Representatives, said that for the Soviet, the war in Afghanistan had not yet ended. A huge quantity of the Soviet weapons was still being airlifted to Kabul, and the Soviets were strongly supporting their puppet regime in Afghanistan. Besides, thousands of Afghan children had been sent to the Soviet Union and thousands of Mujahideen were also under the captivity of the Kabul regime and the Soviets.
    Expressing sympathy with the Soviet POWS, Mr. Radar asked the Soviet delegation to exert pressure on their government to stop supporting the Kabul regime and send back those Afghan children who had forcibly been taken to the Soviet Union for brain washing.
    Finally, it is up to the Soviets to facilitate the exchange of POWS for which they are responsible, because it were the Soviets who invaded Afghanistan, and not the Afghans who invaded the Soviet territory.
 i
14