 for the mortars and the mine-clearing equipment in order to better attack the eight major Soviet bases and some 30 smaller Soviet or Afghan garrison strew around Afghanistan.
                                              SOVIETS SPEAK SOFTLY AND CARRY THE HAMMER OF SUBJUGATION
                                                                                                 H E. STEPHEN LEWIS
   In his statement to the United Nations during the recent debate in the General Assembly on Afghanistan, H.E Stephen Hewis, the permanent Representative of Canada said, “This year the debate on Afghanistan assumes a new level of importance. It is a level imposed by the Soviet Union itself. Many countries vacillated between anticipation and apprehension, because all of the noise coming from the Soviet Union suggested a possible change in its Afghan policy, but despite the more positive rhetoric, nothing seemed to change.”
   “The words of the Soviet Union, while soothing gave not a single guarantee of changing policy. Words used as seductive tool of the diplomatic trade. Words as intoxicants to hope, words as palliatives. But not words as truth”, the Canadian representative said:
   The truth is that Kq added, “in that forlorne/ raVaged country of Afghanistan the present policies of the USSR hark - paradixically and inexplicably — to those of the
LIBERATION FRONT
 days of stalin. Dialectical materialism may show a new and enlightened face to the world, but it continues to show an old and brutal face to Afghanistan.
   Quoting the Canadian Secretary of state for External Affairs who had remarked in his speach in Delhi “The Canadian Government welcome fhe very positive formulations contained in General Secretary Gorbachevs Vladivostok speech on pacific security. but a distinction mugt be made between an expression of intent on the one hand and constructive action on the other. . . . Nothing would more dramatically illustrate Mr Gorbacheve determination to follow through on his Vladivostok speech than a withdrawal from Afghanistan”.
   Not only are we nowhere near a withdrawal, but in a fasion which demonstrates utter contempt for world opinion, events during this last year show that the Soviets speak softly and carry the hammer of subjugation.
     Above all, and in a way which tends to corroborate the terrifying spectre raised last year by the special UN Rapporteur, this report says “In the view of the Independent Counsel of International Human Rights, there is considerable evidence that genocide has been committed against the Afghan people by the. combined forces of the DRA and th^ Soviet Union”.
___________________£.------------
                    I
                 38
   Mr. President, in the name of Canada, he said “I put all this on the record of the General Assembly because Afghanistan is an oft-forgotten war. With the exception of this annual debate, the insensate destruction of that the exception of this annual debate, the insensate destruction of that country and its people receives very little international attention. Somehow, the Soviet Union must be brbught to recognize that • the selective application of Glasnost-an application which figuratively and literally eliminates Afghanistan — is unacceptable to the world community.
   This is particularly true because of the events of the last year. Despite all the public protestations about wanting to withdraw, despite all the stories of Soviet soldiers returning battered and maimed to a grieving homeland - or not returning at all; despite all the talk of National Reconciliation, the war is more out of control than ever. The military engagements now number 450 to 500 a month compared to 300 to 350 in 1986, and they are doubel what they were in 84-85. What is more, as everyone knows, the sabotage within Pakistan proceeds apace and the bombing^ of refugee border camps has reached unconscionably proportions.
   Mr. President, we salute the patience and stocism of the Government of Pakistan. Its
DECEMBER, 1987