 crew on the spot.
   The Mujahideen launched heavy rocket attack on Khan-i-Khlaq, the palace of former King Zahir Shah in Kabu. The losses in the palace were not known which was hit by four rockets on the morning of October 22.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN DESTROYED TWO CONCRETE BUNKERS IN NIMROZE
   The Mujahideen launched an attack on the sub-divisional headquarter of Nimrose Province, as a result of which two concrete bunkers were destroyed at the army camp and the supply depots were blown up, on the morning of September 26 using rockets and missiles, where 132 Soviet troops were lulled and injured and arms and ammunition were captured, including ten tanks and military vehicles of the enemy were also set ablazed. The Mujahideen have also liberated two villages of Nimroze Province.
  - Radio Kabul also has confir-
 med the Mujahideen attack on the security post near Shin-waru in which rockets and missiles were used.
                                                   TWO SOVIET HELICOPTERS DESTROVED:
   The reports from Ghazni province stated that the Muja-hidden foiled a large scale military operation after two days constant resistance. The Soviet offensive was aimed at to destroy the Mujahideen centre in Targan area.
   The Soviet armoured units surrounded the Mujahideen centres on Sept. 2. The Mujahideen engaged in operations outside their centres waylaid the invading forces and made stiff resistance for two days with the help of beseiged Mujahideen. The Soviet units fled away towards Ghazni carrying 18 bodies and leaving behind the wreckage of three tanks.
   The Mujahideen captured a machine-gun, one rocket-launcher and a wireless set.
   The Mujahideen have shot
down a Soviet helicopter in Nari area of Paktia Province, with anti-aircraft missiles on the morning of October, 19. The wreckage of the helicopter was scatered in the surrounding of the village and the Soviet pilot and the other crew were killed under the debris of the copter.
   The Mujahideen also encircled Soviet forces near Mohammad Agha town in Logar from October, 12. The convoy was coming to Gardez from Kabul carrying supplies. As the Mujahideen were equipped with missiles, the Soviet fighters aircraft and helicopters were avoiding flights. However, the exchange of sheling from both sides continued until October, 22. The Soviet foces borne heavy losses.
                                             MUJAHIDEEN DOWNED SOVIET JET:
  A Russian jet was shot down by Afghan Mujahideen with an anti air craft missile while bombing Mujahideen positions in Hashim Khel region of Jaji, Pakita Province, on October 22. Six Mujahideen were seriously wounded in the bombardment.
                                             KABUL TROOPS SUFFERED HEAVILY:
  In aseries of attacks, the Afghan Mujahideen inflicted heavy casualties on ’ Soviet-Kabul troops, on September 26. The Mujahideen destroyed eight aircrafts of Soviet-Kabul forces at Kandahar airport, and killed or wounded
                                          SOVIET-KABUL TROOPS SUFFERED HEAVY IN NINGRAHAR
   The Afghan Mujahideen in fleeted heavy losses on the Soviet-Kabul troops in their operation in the first week of October, killing a large number of Soviet-Kabul troops and destroyed a nymber of tanks armoured cars and other military vehicles, and also captured arms and ammunition from the enemy,-
   The Afghan Mujahideen hit the military aijport of Uroz-gan Province with missiles and rockets where two Soviet helicopters were turned into ashes on the runway of the airport, on September 29. The airport building and its installations received extensive damage by the messile attacks.
                                           MUJAHIDEEN SHOT DOWN SOVIET COPTER IN PAKTIA:
DECEMBER, 1987
30
LIBERATION FRONT