 NATIONAL RECONCILIATION OFFERED BY KABUL “DIPLOMATIC OFFENSIVE.’
   Jamaat-i-Islami of Pakistan’s Secretary General and Senator Qazi Hussain Ahmad termed as “diplomatic offensive” the recent tilt ‘in Soviet attitude to the Afghan issue and called upon the people of Pakistan together with the rest of world to analyse this strategy.
   Qazi Hussain Ahmad said some pro-Soviet elements were now supporting the Najib ceasefire and national reconciliation offer. But it was to be seen as what this offer meant, he questioned. In other words it meant that the Mujahideen should stop fighting and accept the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan.
   The only solution of the Afghan issue is immediate Soviet withdrawal to enable the people of Afghanistan to set up a Government of their own choice.
   In the presence of Soviet troops the ceasefire offer could not be considered. Indeed the Soviet had been upset by valiant resistance. Qazi Hussain Ahmad said.
 U.S. CALL ON SOVIETS
   Marking the seventh anniversary of Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. President Ronald Reagan in a written statement released by the White House said “This stark act of aggression sha-
LIBERATION FRONT
Heavy snow fall cannot slow down our Jehad.
 ttered many illusions about the Soviet Union”. He urged Moscow to present in Geneva a realistic timetable for withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan.
   “The United States, which has always supported a negotiated political solution to the war in Afghanistan, will place no barriers in the Soviet’s way, should they decide to negotiate seriously an end to their occupation of Afghanistan”. But empty gestures, such as the talk about peace and a settlement and Sham ‘withdrawal’ in October of a few Soviet regiments will not bring an end to the killing and destruction”.        President
 Reagan said.
   The President praised the courage of the Afghan people saying that they had refused to suirender “in the face of a brutal onslaught”. He cited this as evidence” that freedom cannot be bought stolen or
 wrenched from those determined to defend it.”
   “But the Afghan people alone cannot hope to defeat Soviet power. They need the support of Governments and peoples everywhere”, he said.
   President Reagan said Moscow must be made to understand that it would continue to pay a higher and higher price untill it accepted the necessity for a political solution involving prompt withdrawal of its troops and self-determination for Afghans
   As long as the Soviets and their Afghan surrogates continue to vage war which threatens extremination of an. entire people that people will have the support of the international community-for their resistance.
   President Reagan said, “The tragedy in Afghanistan makes it clear that non of us can
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987          J6