LIBERATION FRONT
April, May-1990.
 ISLAMIC STATE STRONGLY DETERMINED
 PRESIDENT PRESS CONFERENCE: Continue from Page is
 could be replaced by an Islamic government in Afghanistan, the Ai-ghan problem will be amicably set-Ted and peace will prevail throughout the country, paving the way for normal elections as it has been earlier discussed.
    prof. Al-Mojaddcdi further commented that if Dr. Najceb is really honest in his proposal, he should in the interest of his countrymen,, respect the demand and wishes of the masses of the 29 provinces of Afghanistan, and as such quit his office and transfer power to the Islamic Government.
    If this plan is honestly and properly undertaken, then a committee to represent both sides shall be appointed for the implementa-
 tion of our plan and programme.
    In reply to another question that if the Kabul regime elect members of the Shoora from the Communist party, what will be the attitude of the Islamic government? the President said that the elected members of the Shoora from the Communist controlled areas must be Muslims, and not be members of the Communist party.
    When he was asked that if the Kabul regime did not comply with the conditions put forward by the. Islamic Government for the election, then what will be the reaction of the I IGA? Prof. Al- Mojaddedi replied that there will be no other alternative for us except to continue our Jehad against the Com-
munist regime of Kabul.
    In reply to the question of whether an election will help to resolve the problem of differences among the Mujahideen organiza tions particularly that of Eng. Hik-raatyar, President Al- Mojaddedi said that on the one hand 6 Mujahideen Organizations have formed a government whereas Eng. Hikmatyar, who is in the minority, did not join the government, even though according to the principles of Islam, the minority is subjected to the majority. However, it is up to Eng. Hikmatyar to decide about the unity and coherency among the Mujahid Organizations in the interests of the
                                                                                                                                          Afghan nation.
ANY SINCERE EFFORT FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF AFGHAN PROBLEM IS WELCOMED.
                                                         Continue from Page 17
4
 Jirga (Grand Assembly). The members of Loya Jitga shall consist of the Afghan intellectuals and intelligentsia, elected by the Muslim nation of Afghanistan in accordance with our previous discussion.
    Similarly, Prof. Sibghatullah Al-Mojaddcdi president of the Islamic State of Afghanistan, before leaving for an unofficial visit to Egypt and Saudi Arabia on 12th May, expressing his views about the future role of former king Zahir Shah, said that the former king is a Muslim and could play an effective role in
                                                        efforts to solve the Afghan Issue.
                        / j
    President Al-Mojaddedi observed that the Islamic State of Afghanistan. Would appreciate if the former king played his role. He said thg future leadership of Afghanis-
tan, would be chosen through Loya ranged according to the election Jirga which he said would be ar- schedule.
i Mujahideen in prayers.
30
O F