Young Mujahideen are fighting for the liberation of their homeland.
invitation. But rather would struggle for it. So they pre-fered a second immigration.
   People from all walk of life fled Afghanistan. But to the We$t only selected ones were given the chance-the educated ones. Thus all the educated in the West, and a great majority of the educated and professional layer of the country was removed to the West, The battle field and the field of the decision making remained widely open to the semi-educated or non-educated, non-professional^ and non-technocrates. So the nation was left more vulnerable to the invading forces and their lackeys.
   Because, education in Afghanistan was free of charges — financed by the state treasury. The nation was then and now is in critical need of its education layer. Because, educated in such a way, were more in debt and more responsible to the nation than an ordinary man, in this critical juncture of the history. The gap was wide open bet-tween the run away educated to the West, and the warring and refugees masses. Being educated they were able to render valuable services to the nation — in favour of our holy Jehald, but instead they accused each other. Being given refuge in West-Germany, Turkey, Italy, France, England, Canada, Australia and the United States of America, their contribution to Jehad became almost a nil. The fleeing group to the West, did find an excuse that they
 were not given a proper place in the Jehad organizations. Notwithstanding the gates to the West remained wide open and tens of thousands are still on the list, waiting for clearance for their future host countries.
   Thus the West, extended its helper hand indirectly towards the invading troops of Russia. In other words, the occupying forces, forced Afghans to leave their country, and the West, stimulated them to leave the rank and file of Jehad.
   Of course, the contribution of this illplanned policy of the West, in connection of the Refugees, is a great damage to the cause of. the Afghan Jehad Therefore, it is strongly desired that the West would be good enough to recess its policies in regard of the Refugees - either already in the West, or on the waiting list of a second immigration.
   It is to be added that the present Jehad in Afghanistan, is a war of just and liberation. Because, Afghanistan has been invaded by the Russian Imperialists. Afghanistan is the home and mother-land of every citizen of Afghanistan. It is the sacred duty of every citizen of Afghanistan (regardless of faith, creed race, and sex) to do whatever, he/she can for making a success of the just and liberation war. Because, it would not be fair and just that in the time of peace and her prosperity, we were living in, but when she is in trouble to leave her. It is more than regretable to mention that a foreign lady physician being busy in dressing the wounds of Afghan Mujahideen and the Afghan physicians strolling in the streets of London, Paris, and New York. Or, that the formers of Afghanistan are recklessly running over the Russian tanks and our trained
19
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT