 Afghan refugee tented village at Warsak to see the drinking water facilities there.
   Christian D. Falkowaki, Head of Mission for Commission of the Eropean Communities at Islamabad, was also accompanying the delegation.
                                               FRANCE ASSURANCE
                                              TO AFGHAN REFUGEES
   The French Ambassador to Pakistan Mr. Henery Servant, visited Afghan refugees tentage village in the outskirts of Peshawar on October 18th, and reiterated his government’s commitments to continue political and moral support for the cause of Afghan refugees and said that the policy of French Government would never change in this regard.
                                                          ■J
    Mr. Henery Servant said that the people and the Government of France supported the Afghan cause since Soviet intervention in Afghanistan. He added that the French Government and some non-govem-mental welfare organisations, are extending help and assistance to the Afghan refugees. He assured that France would, continue its assistance to the Afghan refugees till their return to their homeland. He was optimistic about the Afghan’s success in their just struggle.
            !•
    The French Ambassadpr appreciated the efforts /of the people and the Government of Pakistan for providing, assistance to a large number of
LIBERATION FRONT
 uprooted Afghan refugees. He said that the freedom-lvoing nations were well aware to the plight of AFghans and they would be continue their help to mitigate the suffering of Afghan refugees.
   The French Ambassador was accompanied by his wiffe and Counsellor of French Embassy.
                                               NAM MINISTERS URGE SOVIET PULLOUT FROM AFGHANISTAN
   UNITED NATIONS: The Non-Aligned Movement concluded at a ministerial meeting with a call for a political settlement of the Afghanistan question based on the withdrawal of foreign troops, on October, 8.
   The declaration was issued a day after the 46-member Islamic Conference published its communique that dealt with the Afghanistan question' at length and held the Soviet Union responsible for the serious situation in that non-aligned country.
   Pakistan was represented at the ministerial meeting by the Minister of State'for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Zain Noorani.
   The non-aligned declaration reaffirmed the right of the Afghan Refugees to return to their homes and called for a speedy solution to this vast humanitarian problem.
   i<
   “They (the Ministers) called on all States to exercise restrant to avoid further endangering the peace and
 _______________i_____________
                 40-
 security in the region, and to take such steps as would lead to the creation of conditions conducive to stable and harmonious relations among the States of the region.”
                                              AUSTRALIAN ENVOY VISTED REFUGEES VILLAGE
   Jeffery Price, Australian Ambassador in Pakistan paid a visit to Kacha Garhi refugee tented village on October, 27 at Peshawar.
   He went round different parts of the village including energy conservation project and a centre of vocational training.
   Earlier, the Australian Ambassador was briefed about the registiation procedure for Afghan refugees and relief assistance provided to them.
                                            LORD ENNALS ASSURES HELP TO REFUGEES
   PESHAWAR: Lord Ennals, British Member of Parliament and Chairman of Ockendon Venture, a voluntary agency working for the welfare of Afghan refugees in the NWFP, called on Mr. Saeed Ahmad Akhtar, acting Commissioner of Afghan Refugees, NWFP, on 15th October.
   The Commissioner briefed the dignitary with regard to the relief operations being carried out in the refugees camps in the NWFP and its adjacent tribal areas. The relief activities undertaken by the ‘Ockendon Venture’ also
DECEMBER, 1987