

 spray or vapour on being released either by rockets fired from fixed wing aircraft or helicopters Large metal container as long as an estimated 21 ft. and fixed to the fuselage of propeller-driven aircraft also sprayed the material over the target. Sakharov’s evidence bore close relation to similar accounts from Mujahideen sources.
    The State Department’s report listed 1 2 reported chemi-cal/biological attacks by security forces in Afghanistan during the course of 1982. The report quoted an Afghan airport official as saying that he had seen 200—300 gas containers at Kandahar airbase, while his subordinate reported that the three types of gas in these canisters caused burning of the throat and suffocation; $ second that caused blistering and what looked like small-fox, and a third substance that made its victims tired and unable to fight or run. The containers produced a yellow smoke on impact. The repojt also mentioned the case of Soviet adviser having said before the invasion that Soviet chemical defence troops would bring in substantial quantities of toxic materials. The adviser who was inspecting sites for housing Soviet troops, indicated that a proposed garrison in Kabul would be mappropenate for Soviet chemical defence unit because an accident could devastate the city
                       T /
    The United Nation special reporteur on human rights in Afghanistan. Mr. Armacora
 m an interview, said “he is convinced the Soviets are using chemical weapons, including napalm and phosphorous bombs, in their campaign against Afghan- Mujahideen. The hospitals in Pakistan are full of proof of these weapons, “he added.
   Mr. Armacora maintains he has documented the use of chemical weapons in Afghanistan, although such practices have been repeatedly denied by the Soviets.
   “I would not have had the courage to document such things if I were not convinced they had happened.” He said
   The United Nations has also reported rhat on September 13, 1982. when more than 100 Mujahideen, inchid-ing children and aged people hid in an, underground irrigation channel in Padkhwab-e-Shana, Logar Province. Tire Soviet Afghan troops poured explosive chemicals into three outlets of the tunnel and
 ignited them, hunting rhe trpped innocent peopie to death.
                                           VICTIMS OF THE CHEMIC AL IN SANG L AKH
   Recently Soviet troops have killed 18 members of one family who sought shelter in a mountain cave to protect themselves from ihe Russian bombardment, on August 7, at Sanglakh. Maid an Province,
   But when the Soviet troops came to the area they applied camical gas into the cave kilting innocent women and children on the spot. Commander Ali Yusufi has reported to AMRC at Peshawar.
   After the Soviet troops were withdrawn from the area, the villagers went to the cave and found all 18 persons killed. When they tried to remove the bodies out of the cave for burial purpose, they found them decayed, and the flesh would have been peeled off with their effort to move Continued on page 26
       Most of the Hospitals fnr Afghan Mitjshklttfi in \ WFP ere full of such disabled Mujahideen.
 LIBERATION FRONT
 20
 DECEMBER, 1987