     seven party alliance ‘Tttehadi-islami-Mujahideen-Afghanistan”, met together in'their representative form and rejected the offer for national reconciliation, cease fire and coalition government with one voice.
          Thus, the thought for national reconciliation and the formation of coalition government with the puppet ruling party in Afghanistan would never arise. The war in Afghanistan is not the war between two States or conflect arisen from a border despute which is to be ceased and the dispute will continue. It is indeed Jehad,declared by the Afghan Muslim nation after the Soviet puppet Communist regime was installed in Kabul through a coup directly aided by Soviet air power and thousands of Russian advisors while present in Afghanistan, invaded a nonaligned, independent, sovereign, Muslim State without any justification.
          Do the Soviet imagine that the Muslim and Mujahid nation of Afghanistan will forget and forgive the Russians for their invasion of Afghanistan, the nine years long period of their trial and tribulation since 1978, the martyrdom of over a million of Afghan Mujahideen, the destruction of villages, towns and crops, the killing of their children, women and aged people, and the harassment of civilians to the neighbouring States and their subsequent tribulation in the refugee camps?
          Do the Russians think that without radical change in Soviet policy and the complete withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, mere declaration of national reconciliation and the formation of coalition government will satisfy the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen to return to their homeland?
          Do the Russians believe that Afghan Mujahideen were laying down their lives and making sacrifices all these years just to form a coalition; government with Najeeb the puppet head of the Soviet backed regime in Kabul whose hands are still atained with the blood of the defenceless Afghan nation?
          This was- the final trick the Russians put into test in Afghanistan under the garb of national reconciliation and coalition government with Mujahideen which was strongly rejected by the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen. The leaders of Mujahideen unanimously termed the offer from Najeeb, as yet another last Moscow plot to trap the struggling Afghan Mujahideen.
          The seven parties Alliance leaders pledged that the Afghan Mujahideen would never stop their Jehad and the refugees from the neighbouring States would never return to their homeland untill all Soviet troops were withdrawn, the Soviet puppet regime was over thrown and an Islamic government in accordance with the wishes of the Afghan Mujahid nation was established in Afghanistan.
 fi
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987