      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
          IN THE NAME OF ALLAH. THE MOST COMPASSION THE MOST MERCIFUL -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Following the recent Soviet imperialistic, wicked manoeuvre in the name of “Peace initiatives” voiced through their latest colonial instrument.tDr. Najeeb, the Alliance of Afghan Mujahideen organizations called for a conference at Peshawar to announce their united response.
        The gathering of over three hundred thousand Mujahideen and Muhajireen, hailing with one voice their leaders’ determined and moving speaches was an unforgitable demonstration of unity. The heartfelt slogans of “Allaho-Akbar” (God is the Greatest) being voiced by the faithful participants in approval of the united stand taken by Mujahideen leaders struck as a thunder to once again shake the very foundation of Soviet imperialism, leave alone their shamefull attempts at playing their imperialist political tricks; the false hopes created in the closed minds of Soviet puppets in Kabul was shattered for ever.
        For our readers, we chose to publish in this issue the text of the declaration of the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen which was read by then Spokesman of the Unity, Honourable Moulavi Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi, as well as the text of the moving speaches that Hazrat Prof. Al-Mujaddedi delevered in this historic gathering. While the declaration you read is translation of the initial Persian text, Prof. Al-Mujaddedi’s unwritten speach has been transcribed from tape and then translated to English for our readers:
     Be not faint-hearted, crying for peace, when you should be uppermost: for God is with you, and will never put you in loss for your (good) deeds.
   (Muhammad: 35)
     And fight than on until there' is no more tumult or
     7                  MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987                      LIBERATION   FRONT
 oppression, And there prevail justice and faith in God. (Al-Anfaal: 39)
   The relentless Jihad of our Muslim and brave nation,, which has been continuing for almost past nine(9) years, has proven that this nation is
fighting for a very great ideal.
   For the realization of this ideal ie. the establishment of an Islamic Government which is the aspiration of our people, restoration of political independence of Afghanistan and elimination of all direct and