 position is desperately difficult, yet it hangs in and copes with the largest refugaee population in the world. We salute the Afghan Mujahideen, their courage and their new solidarity under unified leadership. It is almost unimagi-neable that they have „ withstood the formidable Soviet juggernaut. But the toll is horrific, he said.
   Above all, Mr. President, we salute the work of the Secretary-General and the use of his good offices to attempt to effect a settlement. But of course that settlement will never come, in a way that allows all of the groups and people within Afghanistan to determine their own future, until the Soviet regiments withdraw Stephen lewis added.
   It is beyond Canada to imagine how one builds a regime which is neutral, independent and without hostility through terror, torture and war. It is equally beyond Canada to know how a settlement can be concluded unless the Soviets leave Afghanistan. That is the precondition for peace. That is the precondition for a new Government which, with honour and safety, embraces the return of all its people.
   This year, the Soviet Union asks us to accept amendments to the traditional resolution which would skew the resolution, allow for Soviet support and, with it, presumably, concensus. What a wholesale betrayal of the
people of Afghanistan that would be.
   Canada, will have no part in those amendments. 1 repeat:  every year we pass
resolutions exhorting the Soviet Union to consecrate a formula for settlemet. Every year we plead for an end to the insanity. Every year we return with the words still ringing in our ears. Every year we try again. We are undeterred.
   If ever there was test for Glasnost, it is Afghanistan. So far, the Soviet Union is failing the test. Dare any of us hope that at this time next year the' cry of the dove will be heard over that scarred and anguished land? H.E. Stephen Lewis, the Canadian representative concluded.
    EEC MISSIOD VISITS REFUGEES VILLAGE
   A six-member European Economic Community Finan-
cial Control Mission led by Kurt Eggart paid a visit to Kababian refugee tented village on Oct, 26.
   Members of the team went round different parts of the tented village and inspected drinking water facilities made available to the Afghan refugees.
   It may be recalled that European Economic Community had given a financial assistance of 2.7 million European currency units for the implementation of emergency water supply programme in various refugees tented villages in NWFP
   The European Economic Community has pledged another three million European currency units for the execution of second phase of income-generating programme for Afghan refugees.
   Later, the delegation visited
      Mules are found useful for carrying wounded Mujahideen to Medical Centres.
DECEMBER, 1987
39
LIBERATION FRONT