BALUCHISTAN
  In Baluchistan, under the auspices of Mujahideen Alliance, a big gathering of the Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajireen was held to protest against the soviet military invasion of Afghanistan and mark 27th December as black day.
   WASHINGTON In Washington, a big demonstration of the Afghan exiles coming from several states was staged on 26th December, burnt the soviet flag in protest, near the soviet Embassy on the eve of the soviet eighth anniversary of the. soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
                                                                                                  “This is a message from an
oppressed nation to the free world. Please do not turn your back on us”, said Hafiz-ullah Karzi an organizer of the demonstration.
   A similar march was held in Melbowme, Australia, Bangladesh - and other freedom loving countries on 26th and 27tn December denouncing the soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
Soviet use Chemicals in Afghanistan _
 HIDAYATULLAH MATEEN.
    Since the Russians have aggressively attacked Afghanistan, the country has been turned up to chemical battle field and experimental zone. The evidence and informations regarding the use of chemical weapons, have been produced by Journalists, tourists, fact, finding missions, military defectors,. Russians captured pilots and military officers, regarding chemical use in Afghanistan. The reports further supported by information from foreign military officers who have attended the Soviet Military Academy of Chemical Defence in Moscow. According to their Soviet Instructors, chemical weapons including “harassing agents may be used during the initial stages of local war to spoil enemy efforts and to initiate oper-
 efforts and to initiate operations, even if the einemy has not used them first”. The 'foreign officers accounts, including detailed descriptions
 of the Soviet chemical programme, which they consider an effective and acceptable means of warfare on any local and international conflicts.
   Evidence accumulated since world War II also clearly shows that the Soviets have been extensively involved in preparations for large-scale offensive and defensive chemical warfare.
   Chemical warfare agents and delivery systems developed by the Soviets have been identified, alongwith production and storage areas'within the USSR and continuing research, development, and testing activities at the major Soviet chemical providing grounds. Soviet military forces are extensively equipped and trained for operations in a chemically contaminated environment. The Soviets have shown a strong interest in
                                                                  i
improving or enhancing their standard agents for greater reliability and effect. Their large chemical and biological research and development efforts has led them to investigate and invent other kinds of chemical warfare agents, particularly the toxins.
   In the military invasion of Afghanistan by Soviets, from November 16, 1979, chemical bombs reportedly were dropped on targets in Farah, Herat and Badghis Provinces, by Soviet supplied Afghan IL-28 Bombers. The reports indicated that fixed-wing aircrafts and helicopters usually were employed to disseminate chemical warfare agents by rockets, bombs, and sprays chemical filled landmines were also reportedly used by the* Soviets. The chemical clouds were usually gray or blue, black yellow, or a combination of the colours.
   Symptoms reported by vic-
DECEMBER. 1987
17
LIBERATION FRONT