   For the last seven years the Soviet forces have held a small and formerly nonalig-ned country, and the courageous people of Afghanistan have fought for their freedom.
   The people of this Islamic country do not want to yield to Super power which has ignored the principles of international law, non-alignment and national sovereignty, The people of Afghanistan continuing their resistance against the invading troops.
   The invasion of the Soviet troops has imposed untold suffering on the Afghan population. The report submitted by the United Nations special raporteur, Professor Erma-cora, provides horrible proof of this. We are called upon to fulfil our obligations with regard to the provision of humanitraian assistance as well as political solidarity.
   Five million Afghans had to leave their homeland. They are now living as refugees in neighbouring countries. Three million of them have found refuge in Pakistan, which has assumed considerable political and economic burdens. Violations of its borders by military forces are exposion Pakistan to increasing pressures.
 KABUL’S CEASEFIRE OFFER IS A TRAP : “WASHINGTON POST”
   The Washington Post on 4th January, 1987 in an editorial described the offer of ceasefire as “trap”. It said the offer
 was an invitation to the Mujahideen “not to talk but to surrender’’.
   The Kabul regime’s ceasefire offer, the editorial says, brings to western attention the political track that Moscow has been quietly developing in Afghanistan — even as its more conspicuous offers goes on to crush the resistance militarily. The formal name of this track is “national reconciliation’’. It’s strategic purpose is to isolate and diminish the Mujahideen and their popular
 following. It mctnod involves the divide-co-opt-trick-and-bribe tactics which are the traditonal stuff of politics in Afghanistan. It’s agent is the doctor turned police chief named Najibullah, who now heads the Soviet-imposed government in Kabul.
  CHINA URGES EARLY SOVIET PULLOUT.
   A foreign Ministry spokes-
 man in Beijing, stressed at the news briefing on 7th January, 87 that the fundamental ways to resolving the Afghan question is for the Soviet Union to stop suppressing the Afghanistan people and withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan as quickly as possible.
     This because the Afghan issue is the result of the armed aggression against and invading of Afghanistan by the Soviet forces. This he said in response to a reporter’s request for China’s comment on the
 recent Afghan Government’s ceasefire decision.
 BRITAIN WILL CONTINUE TO BACK AFGHAN CAUSE
   The visiting member of the British Parliament, Sr Gerard Vaughan and Mr. Jeoffry Lawlar, have reiterated their government’s full support to the just struggle of the Afghan people for emancipation from
tbp Russian troops.
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
38