 poiied in by helicopter to eliminate mujahidin defensive positions and to cut off escape Then came armoured attacks involving as many as 100 tanks. Casualties were heavy on both sides in each operation, and tile battles in Paktia Province were among the bloodiest of the war
   in each offensive tile Soviets prevailed after hard lighting, then withdrew, thus failing to achieve decisive success. Themines they placed to block the trails were removed quickly, and supplies once more flowed through.
   Despite more than six years of combat in Afghanistan, the Soviets still have weaknesses in their forces. The very tact that their military journals stress mountain warfare, physical fitness, and initiative is indicative of some problems. Replacements sent to Afghanistan usually lack sufficient training, are low in morale, and show little enthusiasm for combat. Drug addiction is a grow mg problem. As a result of these conditions within regular Soviet units, greater reliance has been placed on the elite Slavic commandos and paratroops, who are adept at small unit operations, even though total Soviet troops strength has increased to about 118.000.
   What is the nature of the Afghan .Mujahidin that makes him so farmidable ' against superior Soviet m ilitary torce? Perfectly at case with his harsh environment, -for centuries the Afghan had been
 respected as an able guerrilla. Possessing great courage, daring. and remarkable stamina, he is driven by a strict code of honour demanding implacable vengeance if it is violated. Loyalties are to family and tribe rather than to a government or a nation. Through-out the struggle with the Soviets, Mujahidin morale has remained high Dedicated to what they perceive as a holy war (Jehad) for their Islamic faith and cultural traditions, the Afghans are ready to c on tinu find e fin it ely. It is estimated that there are about 90,000 Mujahidin, of whom about 20,000 are active at any one time
    The initial Mujahidin lesis-tance was based on traditional Afghan warfare, with few signs of any methodical approach to the problems of fighting against a modem army. Iribal groups fought en masse in set battles with no specialised function aho eated to particular soldiers
    Sow |y, more organised warfare developed. Several provinces have a military commander <who divjjies thon into sector commands. The sectors are further subdivided into fighting units of twenty-five to thirty-five men including specialists assigned to handle mortars, rocketteunchers, or heavy machine guns.
 , Tactically, while gqernlla ‘Operations of hundreds of men have been launched occasionally, small 'units of thirty to forty men more frequently are used, TheMujahidin prefer
 to set ambushes by bridges of or defiles, to destroy the bridges or block the roads, and then to fire from the concealed positions they have taken in the surrounding heights. If the enemy has a strong advance -guard, u ri allowed to pass before the main element is hit. After the engagement, the Mujahidin then quickly w ithdraw
   Despite their martial qualities and intimate knowledge of the terain. the Mujahidin operate under severe ha ndicaps. inchid mg short-ages of arms, medicine, and fo*cd. And in spite of the Afghans’ reputed prowess in guerrilla warfare, many- accounts cite poor tactical planning and a lack of weapons training. One observer reported, that “the rebels still walk into ambushes because of improper training and only rarely coordinate attacks in ways that would stretch Soviet defenses.’' He described one ill-conceived ambush as "more like Keystone Kops.’- Another noted that his film crew was more apprehensive about neing accidentally shot by the Mujahidin rhan of being hit by the Soviets.
   Since 1980, there have been repeated Mujahidin complaints about the quantity and quality of the arms received. Generally the fighters request more heavy machine guns, mines, rocket grenades, and -- as most essentials — mote effective ani-aircraft weapons. Oiarges continue to be levied that many of the arms intended
 13'
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT