LIBERATION FRONT
       High Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Thorvald Sloltenberg, with Afghan refugee children during his visit to Akora-Khattak Refugee Camp on March 28, 1990.
ghanistan. "We have some one thousand USAID-supported schools insid<5 Afghanistan," Boardman said. The books arc also provided to mujahideen commanders and to other organizations to distribute to other schools. "So, our textbooks are actually in many schools, beyond those that USAID fully supports," he said. He pointed out that the textbooks also arc being used in the Afghan refugee camps inside Pakistan.
   Since 1986, the project has printed more than a million textbooks for primary schools in Afghanistan, and more than
800,000 of these books have already been distributed to 1,209 schools in all 29 Afghan provinces.
   "We have about 122,000 students in the schools that we are fully supporting who are the direct beneficiaries of the programme," Boardman said. In addition, he added, "we have put over. 30,000 mujahideen through literacy cour-
 ses in the border camps, teaching them how to read and write " And the programme has financially benefited Afghan refugees who help deliver the material inside Afghanistan.
    Along with the textbooks, the project has distributed 95,0000 instructional kits, maps, and 9000 mathematics and language charts. According to Afghan refugees interviewed in Peshawar, the educational materials are also in demand in non-USAID supported schools run by the Kabul regime.
    The project has undertaken a one year, non-degree scholarship programme to the United States for the Afghan refugees who have not been able to complete their education in Afghanistan because of the war, Boardman said. A group of 21 students went to the University of Nebraska at Omaha in the spring of 1988, another group of 21 followed in the fall of that year, and a third group is currently studying
                                                                                                               April, May-1990.
                                                                                                           at the University of Nebraska.
    To improve teaching standards, in 1989 the project started a new programme of training Afghan teachers who will be posted in schools inside Afghanistan. The programme provided short term training for primary and literacy teachers and training course for district educational supervisors who monitor the quality of education provided inside Afghanistan.
    The programme has already graduated 12 master teachers trainers, and 12 more m ister teachers will be trained this simmer, Boardman said. In addition, the programme will train 40 teacher trainers, "one from each of 40 different schools in the provinces that we serve from Peshawar," Boardman explained. The provincial programmes overseen from Peshawar are in north-eastern and central Afghanistan.
    An equal number of teachers will be trained to serve the western and the south-western areas of Afghanistan which USAID funded schools operate. Currently 6,000 Afghan teacher*; are active inside the country, >‘>th a strong concentration in the resistance held north-eastern and central Afghanistan.
    The long term impact of this programme in combating illiteracy in Afghan society, as one Afghan educator put it, "will be felt once these people (Afghan) go back home and start thinking about rebuilding their country." The important thing, he stressed, is to prepare this "educational rehabilitation" as early as possible. And in this endeavour, he added, the education sector support project of the US cross border humanitarian assistance programme for Afghanistan is "only a start, but a positive one." (USIS)