\
    EDrtOKIAL
         ANOTHER PLOT IN THE NAME OF RECONCILIATION
     Our readers may recall that the Russiaifs puppet and Communist agent Dr. Najeeb made an announcement on 1st January this year for an open contact with Mujahideen, temporary ceasefire and the formation of a coalition government and national reconciliation.
     This announcement was made some three weeks after Najeeb and his puppet government led a top level deligation to Moscow where he declared to form a Government of National Unity.
     The Mujahideen?s Alliance at Peshawar rejecting this ridiculous offer of the puppet regime of Kabul told newsmen that accepting the ceasefire would amount to recognizing the Kabul puppet government which is backed by the Soviet troops of 115,000, present in Afghanistan. The Mujahideen refused to share any government with the Soviet agents in Kabul and called for the immediate withdrawal of the invading forces from Afghanistaa
          When the bilatral ceasefire and national reconciliation was rejected by Mujahideen, Najeeb offered unilateral ceasefire in Afghanistan, and called on Muhajireen to return to their homeland. Even he sent decorated vehicles to the border with Pakistan to transport the refugees to so-called emergency camps, The puppet regime in Kabul also made false propaganda that a large number of Afghan refugees have been returned to their homes.
          In this regard a group of Afghan Muhajireen; who were crossing the border to Pakistan told the correspondent of the Liberation Front, that the puppet regime in Kabul was busy in taking photographs of those Muhajireen who were intering Pakistan, and shamelessly displayed the same on T.V. in Kabul to delued the public.
          However, the scheme for bilatral ceasefire, national reconciliation and coalition government met with failure. Najeeb, the Soviet puppet therefore, made' new offer to former King Zahir Shah to return to Afghanistan and form coalition government with the members of the Communist regirne.-in Kabul This offer was backed by Soviet and all sorts of rumours were spread ou t in refugese camps that foimer king of Afghanistan has accepted the offer and would re|6m to Afghanistan to form coalition government with members of the Soviet backed ruhng'pprty^M Afghanistan. This was another trick played by Soviets to create friction betweenvMujtffcideen organizations. But recently Zahir Shah rejected the offer for coalition government with tire Soviet backed Communist regime in Afghanistaa The former king who is living ip Italy has declared that so far the Russian troops are present in Afghanistan, he would never accept any offer for coalition government under the aegis of Russian invaders.
^--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    r
T.ITERATION FRONT
                                                           MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
4