LIBERATION FRONT___________April, May-1990.
SOYIET1SATION OF AFGHANISTAN.
                                                   Ghulam Sarwar
    Russian interest in Afghanistan predates the Bolshevik revolution. This Central Asian State had appeared as a "distinct factor" in Anglo-Russian relations as early as in the 1830. The growth of Russian influence in Kabul had led to the Second Ango- Afghan War in 1878. Thereafter, Afghanistan was firmly established as a buffer state between British India and the Russian empire.
    The Anglo-Russian convention of 1907 reaffirmed that Afghanistan lay outside the Russian sphere of interest. Nevertheless, after the October socialists revolution in 1917, Soviet Union vigorously pursued close relations with Kabul. In the process, it won the confidence of the new Afghan Amir, Amanul-lah, who had overthrown British tutelage through the third Anglo-Afghan War in 1919. Economic, military, and technical assistance reached Kabul as a result of a treaty signed with Moscow in 1921. When the reform-minded Amanullah was overthrown in a traditionalist revolt in 1929, the Russian enhanced their activities in Afghanistan.
    Mohammad R. Azmi in his paper: "Penetration in Afghanistan" reveals that in 1933, Zahir Shah ascended the throne of Kabul upon his father’s assassination. He was deposed after 40 years through a coup de’etat which was largely the work of Soviet- trained Afghan military officers. During fhe first two decades of Zahir Shah’s reign, Afghanistan curtailed Soviet influence and maintained a Western-oriented neutrality in foreign affairs. The withdrawal of the
 British from the South Asian Subcontinent in 1947 left a power vacuum in the region. In the new era, the United States largely ignored Afghanistan as a regional factor in the emerging power equation. The Soviet Union, for its part, missed no opportunity to promote its influence in Afghanistan.
    Soon after their penetration in Afghanistan, the Soviet Union completely took over the task of modernizing the Afghan armed forces, though a mall number of Afghan officers continued to be trained in the United States. By 1977, the year prior to the Communist coup, the Afghan army’s strength had risen to 100,000 officers and men and the air force to
 10,000 tanks to an estimated $600 million worth of military assistance from the USSR.
    According to reliable source, approximately 3,725 Afghan officers were* trained in the USSR and about 300 in other Soviet bloc countries from 1956 to 1977. Late Prof. Louis Dupree reported in 1971 that about 3,50Q»Afghan of-, ficers had been trained in the Soviet Union and approximately an equal number in Czechoslovakia. At this rate, the number of Afghanmilitary personnel trained in Soviet bloc should hav£ approached, if not exceeded, the 10,000 mark by the time of the coup of April 1978.
    As early as 1969, observer had pointed to the "Tactical advantages" that accrued to the Soviet Union because of this status as al-' most exclusive supplier of military equipment and training to the Afghan army and Air Force. Apart from the resulting dependence on
 Moscow for spare parts and replacements, Soviet military doctrine was also adopted. Russian became Afghanistan’s military language, and the exchange of officers at all levels for visit and training unavoidably led to personal ties. Dupree expressed concern about the effects of this relationship and the "orientation of Afghan officers trained in the USSR". According to him," the Soviets required no verbal or written pledges" from Afghanistan, because’ certain commitments are present when arms are delivered. They bring along a dependence on the system which develops them .
    Between 1960 and 1970, 2,000 Afghans had received scholarships to USSR Schools, of whom 400 had already returned with their degrees. By 1974, 500 more Afghans had finished their studies in the Soviet Union. Regardless of specialization, all were exposed to Marxist, Leninist ideology as part of their curriculum. To many of these young men, the achievements of the Soviet Socio-economic and political system appeared to provide stark contract to their own backward, tribal society. In a country with an estimated literacy ratio of less than 10 per cent a force of well over 5,000 Soviet trained military officers and specialist, % managers and educators must have constituted a significant and conspicuous segment of the educated elite.
    The overall impact of these intellectual elites was reinforced by the vast auxiliary of Afghan workers and technicians exposed

24