 foreign dominatioa
   Talking to the Afghan refugees at Kacha Garhi tentage village on the out-skirt of Peshawar on January 8, they said that the free world was supporting their struggle against the might of a super power and expressed the hope that they would emerge successful in liberating their homeland........They appre-
 ciated the courage and chivalry of the Afghan people.
   Referring to their visit to the camp, the British Parliamentarians said that they were here to apprise themselves of the people of the Afghan refugees and assured that they would convey their massage to their countrymen and Government and expressed the hope that the British Government would continue its assistance 'dnd help to the Afghan refugees in future till they were safely and honourably returned to their homeland.
   They said that they believed
 in freedom and democracy and as such they also wanted democracy for the people of Afghanistaa
 HUNGARY FOR POLITICAL SOLUTION OF THE AFGHAN ISSUE
   The visiting Hungarian Foreign Secretary, Mr. Gyula Horn, has said while addressing a press conference at the Foreign Office in Islamabad on January 10, 87' that it was agreed during his talk with the counterpart that
  39            MAY
 the regional issues should be solved by political means. The regional issues, he added, was not the problem of the nations of the region alone, because these had serious impact on the international situation too.
    Replying to a question, he said that the East European countries too were interested in a political solution and he added “we all wish to see a neutral non-aligned Afghanistan”.
   Asked whether the presence of Soviet forces was the main hinderance in a political settlement, he said Afghan situation could not be solved unless neighbouring countries gave guarantees.
   The Chairman said that Pakistan was looking after over three million Afghan refugees which was a great burden on her economy. He said the world has already "endorsed the principled stand of Pakistan in regard to the political settlement of the afghan issue.
  NORWEGIAN TEAM VISITED REFUGEES TENTAGE VILLAGE
   A 13 member Standing Committee of Foreign Affairs of the Norwegian parliamentary delegation paid a visit to an Afghan refugees tentage village at Munda on January 19, 1987.
   They went round the tented village and visited boys and girls schools and dispensaries
 JUNE - JULY - 1987
 where they were informed about the education medical facilities being provided to the Afghan refugees. The members of the Nprweigian delegation also saw the distribution of relief goods among the refugees.
   Earlier, on arrival in the village, they were briefed by the Peshawar District area administrator, Mr. Mohammad Younus Khan, about the relif activities.
 ‘U.S. WANTS TO BLOCK SOVIET ACCESSS TO OIL’
   WASHINGTON, Jaa 13: U.S. Defence Secretary Caspar Weinberger said that it took only two weeks for Soviet troops to go into Afghanistan and they could pull out of the country just as fast.
   Mr. Weinberger, appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee to discuss U.S. global strategy, rejected suggestions that Washington would agree to a plan allowing a year for the Soviet Union to withdraw its estimated 1,21,111 troops.
   He told the committee : “The simple fact is that the Soviets are talking about various kinds of proposals, but at least one of the purposes of those talks is to try to reduce the amount of aid to the freedom-fighter in Afghanistaa’
   He said the hoped whatever agreement Moscow Was willing to make would led to its
                                                                                     LIBERATION FRONT