 military officers, personnel, Ph.D., M.A., and B.A., holders, are either standing in a long queue for receiving their ration in the West, or busy in accumulating money. They are the brain of our society and the field of our Jehad is wide and vast. Fortunately or unfortunately there are more than a dozen organizations busy in Jehad affairs. They could and should accommodate either in one or in another organization. Otherwise, they could form an Advisory-Board/Comm ittee/ Assembly, whatever it might be called, and could and would advise and assist all organizations in regard of Jehad affairs. The whole satellite bloc of Moscow is assisting the invading forces of Russian Imperialists in Afghanistan. It is the Afghans to fight them back with every possible means in their disposal. It is a very critical period in the Afghan history. Those Afghans crossing over to Pakistan should not think for a reserved post with the organizations of Jehad. In other words, in place of tc think, what the organizations could do for them, should think, “what they could do for the organizations.”
   Every patriot and believer Afghan should do his best to find out the ways and means to help the brothern Mujahideen and should not dwell upon what the Mujahideen can do for them. Because. Mujahideen and their organizations, render valuable sejAices to the nation — they
 pay with their lives to gain the freedom of the nation, perhaps it is the highest price and service one could do to his nation and his society.
   No doubt, there are many short-coming with the organizations but it could and should be removed and' the Jehad could be put orrits right direction. But who should do it? It is the moral duty and obligation of every Afghan, particularly of those who see and point out the short
 comings. Mere criticism would be no use of, and leaving the field of battle would not be a success. Taking refiige for accumulating wealth in far away countries from the field of Jehad would not be called a Hijrat.
   Therefore, it is .expected that the conscious Muhajireen in the West would rethink and recess their situation as well as the situation prevailing in their dear and brave motherland.
Pakistan’s Worry Over
     Continued from page 17 lamic status of Afghanistan (iv) right of the Afghan people to choose their own government.
   Pakistan has wisely not retaliated to many air incursions on its soil from the Afghan side. It has been exerting pressure on the Soviet Union through the UNO, OIC and NAM for the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistaa Indirect talks also called proximity talks, through the UN representative have continued with Afghanistan at Geneva. The subject also formed in
 “polemics” part of the discussion between the two super powers for the proposed talk at Reykjavik on October 11 and 12, 1986. It was also mooted in the nineth round of the Sino-Soviet Normalisation talks held in October, 1986 in Beijing. Mr. Gorbachov’s comments on the Afghan question in the press conference in New Delhi on November 28, 1986 augur well for the situation:
    Nothing would be more pleasing to Pakistan than to see Afghanistan free of foreign troops and foreign intervention.
20
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987