 involved about 30 per cent of the Soviet military and civilian transport aircraft. Although some analysts criticized the employment of what seemed to be an ill-suited, heavy-armoured force, most likely it was not intended for counter insurgency operations but for dealing with the possibility that the DRA’s own military units might offer resistance t- as some did.
   Within weeks the Soviet also occupied Herat, Kandahar, and the few other major cities, and they fully dominated the government. But the Afghans, instead of being intimidated by the invasion, now were doubly incensed — against the DRA as the obvious Soviet puppet and against the Soviets themselves as. an unwelcome occupying foreign powerr seeking to subvert Afghanistan’s society and religion totally. The Soviets soon had about 85.00 troops in Afghanistan but, because of the mounting resistance, found it necessary to garrison forces in many locations, thus overextending themselves
 and making it difficult to handle even small-scale opposition. As American analyst Joseph J. Collins has noted, the Soviet blundered in that they ignored Clausewitz’s fundamental dictum:    know
 the kind of war in which you are engaging. The result was that they entered Afghanistan without -a suitable -tactical doctrine.            f ‘ j
                                                     OBJECTIVE
   Once in command, the
                                             Soviets endeavored to rebuild
   » __
 the dispirited DRA Army with the objective of having it bear the brunt of the fighting. However, they have not succeeded. It is estimated that the Afghan army now numbers less than 40.000 men — less than onehalf its size prior to the April 1978 coup, primarily because of continuing desertion. As a result, most military operations are joint Soviet/DRA a flairs, and the Soviet combat role continues to expand.
   Several Soviet military weaknesses were evident in the early operations. Inexperience in guerilla war fere was made even more apparent by junior officers not trained to make battlefield decisions. The problem was exacerbated by the use of outdated field communications that made it difficult for higher headquarters to command from the rear. Moreover, a number of the Central Asian soldiers appeared to have little appetite to fight ethnic Muslim brethren.
   For more effective management, the Soviets divided Afghanistan into seven military districts arfti introduced organizational changes in their ground forces. Probably the most important organizational change was the development of the1 reinforced rifle battalion containing antiair and artillery support and tank company. Those additions provided the battalion with greater striking and sustaining power. Anothef organizational development was the creation of the 10th Army, with its headquarters in Tashkent. Uz-
11
 bek’ S.S.R. to command the Afghanistan theater of operations.
    Although initially, Soviet operations were directed primarily against the mujahidin, once the Soviets realized the popular support for the resistance movement, they deliberately turned to a terrorist strategy of “migratory genocide” and “rubblization.” The empo of their operations intensified appreciably in 1984 and even further the next year after Mikhail Gorbachev came to power. Fighter-bombers and medium bombers hit targets deep inside guerilla territory, seeking to destroy the village infrastructure supporting the mujahidin. “Free-fire” zones were created along the main roads and extended back to the hills behind them, and the villages within these zones were “virtually obliterated.” In addition, field crops, food storage facilities, and the irrigation systems so vital to Afghan agriculture were bombed in the attempt to drive the people off the land. Soviet aircraft also deliberately attacked civilian caravans coining into or leaving the country thus causing many casualties among women and childrea Small bombs shaped as toys or other attractive objects were used with the intent to maim children, and these caused many livestock casualties as well. Large en-hanced-blast bombs that explode in midair sending out lethal shock waves have been used also.
    In this type of warfare,
DECEMBER, 1987
LIBERATION FRONT