 puppet government and the establishment of an Islamic state, the war and bloodshed will terminate once and for all and complete peace and security will return to our country.
 4.   The proposal of ceasefire with the Russian forces could only be discussed when they vacate our country unconditionally.
 5.   Moreover, on which authority does Najib propose the ceasefire? If servants can also have such an authority?
 The question that why did not the Russians themselves announce the ceasefire was because that they did not have the guts to announce such a thing in the presence of their forces of aggression in an exceedingly large number. On the other hand they attempted to givi^ a fake prestige to Naieeib and thus foist him as- a real side in the whole issue.
 6) The proposal of the ceasefire is not a new issue in the first place. The Russians through sundry gimmicks have been proposing ceasefire in the past but our Mujahid nation has out-rightly rejected them.
  B-----COALITION:
  1. The righteous jihad of our nation had been started before the Russian invasion for the overthrow of their puppet regime firstly and secondly for the expulsion
 of the invading Russian forces, liberation of our country and the establishment of an Islamic government, this struggle has continued. As long as these objectives are not realized, how can we lay down our arms, stop the fighting and settle for a calition government that includes the communists who are the killers of our people? The armed struggle of our nation will not stop even for a moment unless their ideals and aspirations are realized.
 2)   The Russians by proposing a coalition government are trying to create conditions that will be inconducive for launching a resistance against their puppets again and to enable their stooges to have an opportunity to securely continue their rule in Afghanistaa While this has been one of the objectives for which the Russians had invaded Afghanistan. Because it was the Russians who empowered the communitst regime in Afghanistan and for its perpetuation they militarily intervened in our country. In view of these reasons, the coaltion government is not acceptable to our Mujahid nation.
  3)   The discussion of a coaltion government which has been proposed by the Russians through their puppet regime in Kabul will be tantamount to recognition of the right of intervention by the Russian forces in the internal affairs-of our country and threatens the right of our self-determi-
 nation and is in contravention with the decisions of the UNO, OIC and RAM that have supported and asked for the unconditional, total and prompt withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan.
 4)   Moreover, the establishment of a coalition government with the communists is repugnant to the tenets and injunctions of Islam and our national interests. Islam is irreconcilable with communism and therefore working of the Muslims with communists in single framework of a government is impossible and unimaginable.
 C—1) The Army of the puppet regime is in complete disarray and on the verge of cbllapse and armed and unarmed conscripts are joining the ranks of the Mujahideen. The Russians by offering national reconciliation and cease-fire want to invite the refugees so as to be able to form an Afghan Army from those whom they expect to return by dint of bayonets. The rank and file of our Mujahid nation is alive to
  these tricks and therefore will never be decieved by them and that is why they reject these empty offers of the puppet regime.
  2) The puppet regime has announced that during the ceasefire, the gates of prisons would be opened for those who repent and make comm it-ment of serving the puppet regime. While the whole of our
9
 MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT