more than 30 joint Soviet-Kabul troops and captured nine soldiers.
   Another helicopter of the joint forces was also shot down in Baboos area of Logar Province and all the crew on board were killed. The invading forces in Logar have also suffered seriously.
   The Afghan Mujahideen have attacked the Soviet-Kabul troops in Badakhshan Province, and inflicted heavy casualties on the invading troops. According to the report, rhe Mujahideen have captured a Soviet Commander, in their attack on the city of Rustaq, Takhar Province. The Soviet Commander Samdov is still under the custody of Mujahideen in the said Province.
   The Mujahideen have shot down an aircraft in Jalabad on September 5, killing senior Afghan and Russian military
officers on board. The Mujahideen also attacked Jalalabad city with rockets and missiles on the night of September 5, at 10 O, clock. The Mujahideen also attacked Khad office in Jalalabad, and damaged the building.
                                                MUJAHIDEEN DOWN 16 PLANES & COPTERS:
   The Afghan Mujahideen have shot down seven aircraft and nine helicoters and destroyed 90 tanks in the first fortnight of September. The Mujahideen also conducted successful attack on the morning of Sep. 2, in which two aircraft and five helicopters were turned into ashes, at the Ghazni airport. Most of the Soviet aircraft had been shot down in Pakita Province, Mazar-i-Sharif, and Parwan Provinces.
   The Mujahideen have also captured 14 light and heavy machine-guns, dozens of Kala-
 shinkove rifles and heavy quantity of ammunitions.
   In Kandahar Province, Mujahideen have shot down another Soviet MIG in Malajat area near Kanadahar on October, 23.
                                             SOVIET-KABUL TROOPS PUSHED BACK IN LOGAR:
   The invading Soyiet troops launched military operation in Logar valley and heavily bombarded several villages in the Province, where 74 Afghan civilians, were martyred and 150 Houses were destroyed on October, 15 to 22.
   But the Mujahideen severely resisted during the Soviet operation and forced the invading forces to retreat after constant struggle The Soviet troops have lost eight tanks, and a helicopter which was hit near Baraki-Barak town on the morning of October, 19 The Soviet troops d roped 14 Napalm bombs at Bad-Khwab and Ab-l-Josh where crops were burnt and several cattle were killed, while the sivilian population had been moved towards mountains.
                                            MUJAHIDEEN DESTROVED 8 SOVIET PLANES:
   The Mujahideen have recently destroyed eight planes in two Provinces. Three Soviet Jet fighter planes and two helicopters at Kabul International Airport on November 3, and two Soviet transport planes and a helicopter parked at the military base of Khost
      A wreckage of Soviet bomber aircraft. In 1987, Soviet lost a large number of Jet-bombers, helicopter-gunships and military trans-port aircraft.               ___________________________ '
DECEMBER, 1987
31
LIBERATION FRONT