iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiHkiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
 Moscow in Expansion
EXPANSION OF RUSSIAN IMPERIALISM
iiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
 had launched a political struggle (Jehad) against the Sikh atrocities in the Frontier under the command of Syed Ahmad Brelvi, who is believed to have acted under the direction of Shah Abdul Aziz, the illustrious son of Shah Wali-ullah.
   Syed Ahmad Brelvi travelled to Afghanistan in 1826 to warn the Barakzi folk of the consequences of disunity in their ranks and its ultimate result for the cause of Islam in the area. It is not fully known
 that the result of this mission was yet we know that Afghanistan united itself during this year under an able Barakzi, Dost Mohammad Khan, who gave an efficient administration to his country for the next 37 years:. It was under Dost Mohammad that the first British invasion of Afghanistan
 took place. A strong contingent of the Indian Mussalmans under Moulvi Naseeruddin fought with valour and suffered heavy casualties at Ghazni in defence of Dost Mohammad Khaa And again when the British invaded Afghanistan in 1878, a Muslim delegation led by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan callled upon the Viceroy to apprise him of their resentment for this action. The Muslims of India selected Afghanistan as their abode during the Hijrat movement in early twenties of this century. They fought at Tal under Zaffar Hussan against British India in support of the Afghans during the Third Anglo-Afghan war. In feet King Amanullah received considerable moral and political support from the Indian Muslim workers during his Istiqlal and Tanzimat movements.
 Maulana Ubaidullah Sindhi, Barkatullali Bhopali and many Indian Muslims spent considerable part of their lives in Afghanistan with the dual purpose of counter-acting European moves against Islam and giving advise to the Afghans.
    After the fall of King Amanullah, Nadir Khan’s (later Shah) arrival in India from Europe in 1929 was publicly welcomed by Muslim India. Maulana Mohammad Ali escorted him from Bombay to Lahore and Maulana Zaffar Ali Khan further accomponied him to Peshawar. The Pesha-waris organized a public welcome for him at a meeting in Shahi Bagh and collected sizeable donations for his war efforts in Afghanistan and it was finally the Waziri Lashkar-led by Allah Nawaz Khan Multani that placed Nadir
15
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
LIBERATION FRONT