LIBERATION FRONT
                                                      April, May-1990.
ISLAMIC STATE OF AFGHANISTAN STRONGLY CONDEMN THE ATTACK ON RELIEF AGENCY.
    The Islamic stale of Afghanistan strongly condemn the attack on the installation of the Shelter-Now International (SNI), a relief organization for Afghan refugees in Nasar-Bagh refugees camp, and consider it as malicious operation against the interests of Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajirccn
    The Islamic state of Afghanistan, appreciate the plan, programme and activities, the agency of Shelter-Now International has undertaken for the relief and benefit of Afghan Mujahideen and Muhajirccn. The Islamic state also strongly support the humanitarian assiatance and diligence services, the Shelter-Now International Agency has extended to the welfare of Afghan Muhajireen. -T
    This statement was issued by the Islamic state of Afghanistan on May 13th 1990.
    It may be recalled that after this incident of 26th April at Nasar Bagh refugees camp, it appered
 in the section of the press that "More than 100 international voluntary organisations in NWFP and Balochistan, looking after the Afghan refugees,would be asked soon to pack up and leave Pakistan".
    This news, however, rejected by the spokesman of the state and frontier region division government of Pakistan that the news item was totally incorrect and baseless. He further said t hat no such orders had been issi.» d. On the contrary, the govern nil highly appreciated l he valuable .services.rendered by the international agencies and NGOs for a noble and humanitarian cause in this field, the spokesman added.
    In regard to the April 26 attack against Shelter-Now International at Nasar Bagh, the 59 members Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief (ACBAR), also held a meeting on 15th May, complaining that its members were increasingly being victimised by elements which
clearly did not represent the majority of Afghans.
    In its statement, ACBAR appealed to the Pakistan government, as well to the Afghan Interim Government, Mujahideen organisations and refugee ciders to take concrete steps against those responsible for acts of terrorism directed at relief agencies and their staff. An appeal was also made for providing security to those running humanitarian assistance program-nu s.
    11 may be noted that ACBAR, is a Peshawar based body coordinating the work of its 59 members NGO’s, including bol h western and Afghan, which. provide humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people collectively ACBAR members employ over 6300 Afghan personnel, 800 Pakistani nationals and 350 expatriate personnel and provide relief services to Afghan refugees absolutely on humanitarian basis.
 i
19