 LIBERATION FRONT
 their seniors and old-timers whenever they get chance during combat and also in their own units during night.
   Thus, the above cited examples and interviews with Soviet POWS can provide ample evidence to prove.the abuse and harsh treatment of the junior soldiers by the old-timers which ultimately lead the junior soldiers to desert the Soviet army and join the Afghan Mujahideen.
   The Soviet POWS while in the captivity of Mujahideen are well satisfied with the sympathetic and civilized behaviour they receive from the Afghan Mujahideen. Some of these Soviet POWS are so impressed upon the manner of the Afghan Mujahideen that they even speak of returning to Afghanistan and help the Mujahideen more if they one day become free men. Recently some Soviet prisoners of war in the presence of the Mujahideen leader refused to go with their mother^ to Russia. Some
 others Soviet POWS dream of making their way to western countries and to start new^ife in the free world.
    The following is,the transition of letters written in Russian to President Reagan by Soviet POWS.
    Dear Mr. President:
    It is now the third year that Fm with the Afghan partisans. In terms of time in general three years is not a long period, but in the life of a human being.
    All of this time my friends, and I have been trying to make our way to the free world, but so far it has all been without any result. We are rejected, western countries are turning away from us. But why? What are we guilty of? I, a former (Soviet) soldier, voluntarily laid down my arms and joined the resistance, in hope of finding freedom.
    In the USSR 1 lived like millions of other Soviet citizen. I finished school, then the PTU (professional
                                                                                                            April, May-1990.
 technical school) and later worked at a factory as an electrician-welder. A human being is so created that he is constantly dreaming of a good, happy life and all of his life he strives toward that dream. But what can you do with this dream in a country where a person is considered merely as a cheap working unit? My parents and I lived in a communal apartment where we were allocated a room which was 14 square meters. Living in such cramped quarters, we couldn’t even dream of a three-room apartment, not to speak of a happy life.
    On April 2, 1983, I was taken into the army. I was literally taken, because no one asked me whether I wanted to go or not. Two months later I was already in Afghanistan, where I came face to face with real communism: lying, genocide, lawlessness, humiliation, betrayal, servility, etc. I could go on listing it other similar qualities without end. I didn’t want to support all of this then, I will not do so in future.
    I completely support the Afghan partisans and their just struggle for their country’s freedom. We have spent manv sleepless, anxious nights together under one sky, and we have shared ilast crumbs of bread and the la<» bops of water. It is so difficult to remember all of this!
    Is it possible that after all of this, my friends and I are destined to live a life of anguish and suffering, without freedom? Can it be, that this is all we deserve?
    Of course, I have achieved freedom in Afghanistan. I c;»n walks and express myself freely, but, this can happen only in a tight circle, in Afghanistan. I cannot tell the world what is happening here, I cannot exert myself on behalf of Afghanistan. My friends and I need total freedom, and we see this freedom in the image of your country. In America we will be able
 i
12