 dear Islamic Afghanistafi from the pollution caused by the dirty footsteps of the accursed enemies of our religion, our God and our Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him) and bring liberation to our country; “In that day the believers will rejoice”. On that day you will be cheerful and happy that the Almighty God has not left you without worldly blessing and has returned you to your country with the honour and pride that is unparalled in the history of Islam.
      Dear Brothers, why did the Afghan Nation resort to arms and neglected all the bounties of the world and pledged with the Almighty Allah that they will not spare themselves from any sacrifice and devotion in exalting His word. This auspicious verse (Aya) approved
 our situation that we have been able to achieve so much victory in the field of Jihad: Allah the Great has said: in the name of God the merciful the beneficent, “and when the true believers saw the clans they said: This is that which Allah and his Messenger promised us. Allah and His Messengers are true. It did but strenghened them in their Faith and submission (to Allah)”. Dear audience, you resorted to arms because the accursed enemy, atheists of the world, international communism, and the wicked soviets misled some of our youngsters. Their hearts their faiths, their bodies and souls were decorated with
 “There is no one worthy of worship but God and Mohammad His Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)”, but they deviated and denied the existance of the great God the glorious and the powerful the only creator of the universe. They were those who said, under the protec-* tion of God, that God does not exist, this universe is without Master. Under God’s protection, they denied the existence of all that is sacred. They derided the prophets. They taunted our Prophet Hazrat-e-Mohammad Mustafa (Peace Be Upon Him) and published objectionable articles against Islam and Islamic Values. They made objectionable remarks against those going on the path of the Glorious Allah. They tried to project the Dear and Chaste Islam impure to the world and to our youth. All this impudence against Islamic beliefs and Islam by the atheists enraged the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan. So lHwe all put our souls ouri children and our wealth in the path of glorious God. The beliefs of some persons was absolutely deviated, proper conduct was uprooted and social and individual misdeeds spread in Afghanistan. While, in dear Islam adultery and drinking liquor are prohibited and killing a human being is absolutely forbidden except in cases decreed by the Almighty God, no human being can disobey the orders of glorious Allah, In those times liquors were drunk like water, pigs meat was used, adultery
 was committed even with their daughters and sisters and these acts were spread to those among our youth who were misled by communi-sim. This shocked the Muslim Nation of Afghanistan and made them think as to how long should they not defend the Almighty God, the Quran, dignity, humanity and their land. So, they lost patience and took arms in defence and exaltation of the word of God with the slogan that the glorious God ordered his Prophet (Peace be Upon Him)) “say; Lo! my worship and
 my Sacrifice and my living and my dying are for Allah. Lord of the worlds, He hath no partner. This I am commanded, and I am first of those who surrender (Unto Him)”. Ulema of Islam spirituals of Afghanistan, religious youth, and those who were straight in the path of Almighty 'God were dirided by the Communists. There was no respect for the elders nor mercy for Children. Morality and Humanity vanished. Human dignity was violated by the communists and did not allow the love and affection which the people of Afghanistan had for years in their hearts to continue and find place in other peoples. On the contrary, they tried to destroy it. Direct and indirect intervention by strangers and enemies in Afghanistan deviated some people. They (the communists) did not spare Afghanistan from a brutality, oppression and bloodshed unparalleled in history and they sold Afghanistan. But, thank God, that
LIBERATION FRONT
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
12