
s
          Thus all the four points plan, viz., unilateral ceasefire, national reconciliation, coalition government and offer to Zahir Shah to return to Afghanistan were completely collapsed.
          The main objectives of this plan as the Russian had in mind, to weaken the Mujahideen position on diplomatic level. The offer for ceasefire was made by Najeeb while 150,000, Russian troops were present in Afghanistan, the eight round of Geneva talk was about to resume, Pakistan was negotiating with Soviet for short term timeframe for the pull out of troops from Afghanistan, the border area inside Pakistan was under heavy bombardment by the Soviet installed regime in Kabul to pressurise the government and people of Pakistan to desert Afghan Muhajireen, and further by the threat of terrorism and sabotage activities, Soviet wanted to force Pakistan for accepting her terms and conditions for peace in Afghanistan.
          The acceptance of the offer by Mujahideen would have weaken the position of Pakistan and other freedom loving nations ott the negotiating table for short-term timeframe for pulling out of Russian troops, particularly the principled stand of Pakistan on Afghan issue would have been smashed. The acceptance of the offer also would have led to the recognition of Communist regime in Kabul and its illegal position would have become legalized.
          Russia also wanted to misslead the free world that she contemplates bringing the Afghan war to an end. This would further minimise as the Russians believed the international pressures which have turned even many European Communist parties against Soviet on the Afghan issue.
          Another objective of the offer was to divert the attention of the free world particularly of the neighbouring States from the aggressive act of Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, and further an attempt to reduce their sympathy towards the freedom fighters and refugees by a false pretension that the Soviet backed Kabul regime was succeeding in reconciliation with Mujahid leaders, the resistance movement was ending and the Afghan Muhajireen from Pakistan and Iran would be returning to their homeland. This as the Soviets thought will slow down the world political and moral support to Mujahideen as well as the world aid and cooperation to Muhajireen The Soviet hoped that in this way the resistance movement against the Soviet military intervention will ultemately fail
          The Krimline imperialists further aimed at crushing the uprising of Muslims community of Kazakistan, Bukhara and other Islamic States of Central Asia under the Soviet domination. They hoped to strengthen their military position in Afghanistan during the ceasefire and to slow down the activities of Afghan Mujahideen against the Russian troops, so it would be easy for Communist imperialists in Moscow to keep pace with the Muslim uprising at home.
          Another target of the Najeeb offer was to sow the seed of disunity and misunderstanding between Mujahideen, Muhajireen and their leaders by diverting their opinion in regard to the offer of ceasefire and coalition government with the Communist regime in Afghanistan. The Russians dreamed that the long stay of the Afghan Muhajireen living in the camps outside their homeland would have weaken their morals, and the so called offer of pardon and reconciliation would speed up their return to Afghanistan.
          But contrary to the Soviet well design plan and all hopes, the Mujahideen leaders in the
 MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
 LIBERATION FRONT