The life of the Afghan refugees in the tentage village.
Chemicals
    Continued from Page 19
  the bodies. They therefore, closed the entrance of the cave, and turned it into a joint grave for the 18 martyred.
    Moreover the Soviet is equipting its armed forces with laser weapons able to blind permanently their apponents.
    This laser technology has already been used in Afghanistan for temporarily blinding fighters. Kremlin is continuing to develop new strategic and theater nuclear weapons as well as conventional forces which go well beyond its legitimate defence need.
    For testing every new weapon, Soviet has made Afghanistan an experimental battle.
                                       TOY SHAPED MINES ARE USED
    A relief group has, claimed that the Soviet aircrafts dropped small toy shaped mines onto mountain roads used by Mujahideen and refugees. 'Riese mines also became the death cause of many Afghan
  children.
    An International Aid Organisation which has undertaken a specific programme for Afghan children at refugees camps believe that such mines are not aimed solely at Afghan Freedom Fighters * because some mines have been shaped like brightly coloured parrots, butter flies; etc. The spokesman added that other mines
  which look like dolls, watches and pens have also been spread by Soviet troops and when little children pick them up, the mines explode causing serious injuries or death. Many children as well as adults have been victimed of such mines.
     When the foreign visitors toured two refugee camps near Peshawar in the month of February 1982, they took with them one of the mines, a green propeller shaped plastic device filled with explosive powder which explodes on contact. The fact finding mission also examined a little boy who had lost a foot and an eye, and another whose fingers'were rr\pimed by a doll shaped mine.
     The Internatonal News Media has also reported the presence of TMS-65, a large vehicle carrier of gas among the military hardware in Afghanistan. It is a very effec-, tive way of killing defenceless, and innocent Afghans who are armed only with rifles. Dt. Matthew Messelson of Har-ward University, a chemical warfare expert, has confirmed
              i
 the use of nerve gas by Russian in Afghanistan.
   In Afghanistan, the Soviet’s purpose of using pioson gas is to exterminate Mujahideen. The weapon that was too loathsome to use in the world war II is now active part of Red Army arsenal to terorize, demoralize and kill innocent Afghans.
   However, the cries of the burning Mujahideen, women, innoccent children and aged people in the Afghan villages, towns, and cities are not properly heard in the building of U.N. and peace loving countries. But, if the chemical flames now burning Afghanistan once cross the border would no doubt scorch the whole region particularly the muslim countries of Middle Fiist with its oil rich resources.
   We therefore, appeal to all peace loving countries particularly the Muslim Ummah to support Afghan Mujahidefen in annihilating the Russian aggressive forces, extinguish the chemical blazes, and save not only Afghanistan but also the whole region from distruction as such.
DECEMBER, 1987                    26                 LIBERATION  FRONT
       \