 between 1979 and 1986.
   “A Finnish solution implies a regime friendly and cooperative in economic and defence matters, preferably but not necessarily Communist and with more scope for independent decision-making that the satellite governments of Eastern Europe are normally granted.
   “It would begin with a coalition government, dominated by the present Communist leaders but including opposition elements, even those now fighting against the Kabul regime.
   “It is entirely possible the Communist leadership might not survive for long, and if the Finnish model is accepted Moscow would have to live with that.
   “The Soviet Union invaded its : mountainous southern neighbour just before Christmas 1979 in an effort to prop up an unpopular and failing Communist regime.
   “Until the end of last year the objectives remained the same :to secure the communists in power and to stamp out the nationalist and Islamic resistance.
  TERRIBLE MISTAKE
   “The invasion was a terrible mistake, as the Soviet Government. now recognises impli-city. It was taken during the time when Leonid Brezhnev was shuffling feebly toward the grave.
   LIBERATION FRONT
   “Last December Gorbachev and his colleagues faced some brutal facts, leading to a partially effective ceasefire starting on Jan 15.
   “Afghanistan had become for the Soviet Union what Vietnam was for the United States in the ‘60s and 70s.
   “The Red Army was bogged down in difficult terrain, fighting against a stubborn and highly motivated enemy who enjoyed popular backing.
   “Its own troops were not universally convinced of the justice of their cause, making them vulnerable to drug abuse and other demoralising behaviour.
   “Even though the Soviet Government did not allow honest reporting and televising of the war, as the Americans did in Vietnam, support on the home front was ebbing.
    “That was especially true among the youth, from whom the army must be drawn, and to an unknown but significant extent among the large Muslim population of Soviet Central Asia.
    “Anger over the war worldwide, not only Western, for once, speeches at the United Nations made a difference, including, Canadian diplomats believe, those of Ambassador Stephen Lewis.
    “More important, the neutral and Third World nations, which the Soviet
 Union works so hard to cultivate, were unhappy about what they saw as Soviet imperialism.
   “This time the evidence is that they want to get out but they’re not sure what will happen if they do.”
  FRENCH MPs VISIT
                                            AFGHAN TENTAGE VILLAGE
   A sevenmember Frencn parliamentary delegation, led by Mr. Yves Tavernier member of parliament and President of study group of the French National Assembly on Afghanistan, called on Commissioner Afghan refugeesN.W.F.P.. Brig (Retd) Fahimullah Khan Khattak, here this morning „ The distinguished dignitaries were informed that over two millions refugees have been accommodated in 247 tentage villages in NWFP. Schools and dispensaries had been set up in various tentage villages to provide education and medical facilities to the Afghan refugees. Besides this the Government have also started income generating schemes to enable refugees to earn their livelihood in a better way.
    The Commissioner Afghan Refugees lauded the role of the people and government of France for providing relief assistance to the uprooted Afghan refugees.
    The members of the delegation expressed satisfaction over the arrangements for refugees and appreciated Pakistan government’s help and assistance to the uprooted Afghan refugees.
 42
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987