 LIBERATION                               April, May-1990.
 during the interrogation, While Muhammed Moosa Shafiq, former prime minister, Ghulam Muhammad Niazi and some other ministers and member-; of the parliament were arrested and after brutal torture were sent to Dehmazang Central Jail. According to an eye witness General Khan Muhammad Khan, Zarghun-Shah, Saifuddin M.N.A, Eng. Habib-ur-Rahman, and Arif Shinwari were shot dead by Pacha-Gul wafadar himself. Molvi Habib-ur-Rahman, Saifuddin, Eng. Jan Muhammad and some other religious scholars were also executed.
   In the soviet backed coup of 1978, in which Khalq-Parcham factions were directly involved, Taraki was installed as puppet president of Afghanistan. In this coup Watanjar, the present defence minister and Shanawaz Tanai (Khalq)the claimant of Mujahideen’s supporter and their sympathizer, playeTd a key role. It was during Khalq party’s regime that tens of thousand innocent people were tortured, arrested, killed and million others were forced to flee the country and seek refuge in Pakistan and Iran. In November 1989, it was disclosed by Khalq regime to a visiting British member of parliament, Lord Bethel, that thousands of people were killed after being detained. Lord Bethel said he was handed over a list,
                                     v
 of 11,000 Afghans Including two former prime ministers so far arrested and murdered by the Kabul regime.
   Subsequently, where the Afghan resistance posed serious threats to the Corh-munist regime in Kabul, it became.a good pretense for Russia’s military interference in Afghanistan. The war mongers of Russia, without any valid reasqn, invaded Afghanistan on December 27,1979, killed Amin and installed Babrak Karmal as their agent. But within a short period, the Russians lost their confidence in Babrak, arrested him and took him to some unknown destination in
  Russia.
     Najib, the present Soviet puppet president, who was by that time Chief of KHAD (secret police agency), was trained in Moscow and was the most trusted Soviet supporter, notorious for his brutalities. While in Russia in 1978, Najib was a key adviser to the Soviets in planning their invasion on Afghanistan in December 1979.
     After replacing Babrak Karmal and assuming power, Najib came forward with a vow to crash the resistance movement of the freedom fighters (Mujahideen). He assured the Soviet authorities of the establishment of a stable Communist regime in Afghanistan. During this period, Najib killed thousands of political prisoners, severed military activities against the Mujahideen, increased Soviet troops in Afghanistan, started sabotage activities in Pakistan and sent children and youths for terrorist and military training to Russia.
     Since 1978, the ruling party of Khalq-Parcham has never considered themselves as Muslims, never quoted from the Holy Quran in their speeches during the Soviets presence in Afghanistan, but rather they ridiculously spoke about Islam, the Prophet Mohammad(PBUH) and the Holy Quran. But after the Soviets withdrawal from Afghanistan when Khalq-Parcham leaders found their position unstable, they came forward in the garb of Islam and sympathisers of the Afghan Muslim nation. They changed the tone of their speeches and the line of their policy towards the Mujahideen. Now they want to deceive the Afghan Muslim nation, to divert the atten- * tion of the Muslim Ummah and to weaken the position of Afghan freedom fighters by creating friction and misunderstanding 1 among the Mujahid organizations.
                                                                         It may also be recalled that in the mas-1 sacre of Herat on 15th March, 1978, at the
 i
6