     ADDRESS OF HAZRAT
     PROF. SIBGHATULLAH AL-MUJADDEDI
            Following is the text of Hazrat Al-Mujaddedi’s speech delivered on January 17,* 1987, on the occasion on which the leaders of Mujahideen Alliance rejected the offer made by Najeeb for reconciliation and coalition government.
IN THE NAME OF GOD THE MERCIFUL THE BENEFICENT.
     Dear audience, Respectable Guests
Mujahideen, and Muhajireen
Assalam-o-alaikum Wa Rahma-tullah-e-Wa Barakatuh.
     I am very glade that on this happy and blessed occasion a great number of our brothers, Mujahideen and Muhajireen of all the seven parties of Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen have assembled. I hope that Almighty Allah would, with his mercy and benevolence, accept this great and significant gathering. I hope that Allah the Almighty would, in this auspicious moment, shawer this great gathering with His heavenly and divin blessings.
     This is the greatest distinction for the Afghan
 Mujahideen and Muhajireen that on this happy occasion all the Islamic Organizaions of Mujahideen have assembled in a unity form unprecedented in the past eight or nine
 years and extend the hand of unity, brotherhood and sincerety to one another, practically showing that in these sensitive and historical moment they are united with one another and stand in one row.
      Almighty God says that, Lo!         Allah       love
 those who battle for His cause in ranks, as if they were a solid structure. (THE RANKS, QURAN)
      Dear audience! I recall the legend of an old man who in his last moment of his passing away from this mortal world advised his seven sons and asked them to break a bunch of thin tree branches but non
of them succeeded. Then their father who was enlightened with the love of God took the bunch of tree branches and separated them from each other and broke them one by one. Then he told his sons that if they were united and stood together no power would be able to defeat them, but if they got sepera-ted they could be easily defeated. We the seven sons
of the Islamic Unity of Afghanistan Mujahideen, we the hope of the people of Afghanistan in this material world, started Jihad not with the power of the arm but by the power of Faith (Eman) and trust in Allah. W'e are, also, like those seven sons. If we really stand in one platform and get united no power, except the power of Allah, will be able to break us. Dear audience, I hope that this auspicious day will result in the cleaning of our
11
MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
                                                                     LIBERATION FRONT