  •r
 the helicopter has proved to be invaluable for a number of roles ferrying troops into battle, providing dose air support of ground forces in combat, and attacking villages or isolated bands of mujahidin. Air assault operations, usually of company or battalion strength, have been most successful when combined with motorized rifle unit operations. The Soviets find helicopters better suited than fixed-wing aircraft for close air support, probably because of the limited mujahidin anti-air capabilities, There are approximately 325 Soviet helicopters based in Afghanistan, of which perhaps onehalf are Mi-24 Hind gunsh'ips. Hie helicopters, -operated usually in groups of from two to six,
Soviet destroyed Ajghan villages on the cost of its militan' prestige.
 Kabul.
  often are flown close to the ground for protection These “nap-of-thc-earth*’ tactics are demanding of both aircraft and crews and have contributed to improved pilot proficiency.
     In 1985, the Soviet strategy moved beyond* mere control of the urban centers and the highway network. The heaviest fighting took place in and around Kabul and in the eastern and southern parts of Afghanistan. Near Kabul, Soviet/ORA forces destroyed most of the villages to create i a vacuum for better security of the capital. In retaliation, the mujahidjn launched frequent rocket attacks at the city; and small-scale fire-rights occurred almost nightly within
                                                 CASUALTIES
   The three major Soviet offensives of the year were in eastern and southern Afghanistan and were intended to close off supply routes to Pakistan They look place in the Kunar Valley during May and June, in the Panishir Valley in July, and in Paktia Province during August and September. Each drive was a division-sized operation involving approximately 10,000 Soviet personnel 3itd between 1000 and 2000 DR A troops. They commenced with prestrike attacks by helicopter gunships and fighter-bombers. Elite commandos and paratroops (spetsnaz) were trans-
LTBERATtON FRONT
12
DECEMBER, 1987