     Afghanistan return to its former status of a small non-aligned, free Islamic country. That’s all the Afghans, and U’N. ask the Soviet to do.
          No doubt that Russia is a great power and has always claimed for bringing peace to the world. But now it is obvious that the Soviet action in Afghanistan has adversary affected its prestige and tarnished its image as a new liberating force of mankind. Her action in Afghan-istanand continued slaughter of Afghans by her forces for the last eight years conveys only one impression, that of its being a brute, unrelenting and expansionist power.
          This brutal action of Soviet not only hit the Afghan Muslim nation seriously but also the philosophy of Communism received serious setback throughout the World.
          Now Krimline leaders have realised their blunder mistake of invading Afghanistan. Moscow is almost admitting that a military Victory over Mujahideen is impossible and the solution must be deplomatic one. But they do not understand how to make such a deplom-atic solution that would end the war and enable the Soviet troops to get out from Afghanistan.
          Some observers believe that there is, sharp increase in terrorist acts, provocation and subversion by Soviet-backed Kabul Government agents in Pakistan. Their goal is to stir up anti-Afghan resentment and to pressurize Pakistan to accept a settlement most favourable to the Communists.
                                               SOVIET LOST NUMBER OF AIRCRAFTS
   Through the closing months of 1986, and in the beginning of 1987, the Soviet have been losing number of aircrafts daily in Afghanistan because of the effectiveness in antiaircrafts tactics of the Mujahideen,and     better co-ordi-
 nation among. Muhahideen faction. If the present rate of aircrafts losses continue, as some military specialists believe, the Soviet will quickly realize the cost of their war in Afghanistan as unbearable.
   The Muhahideen have improved air defences which are hurting the Soviets m another way as well. Soviet pilots must bomb and strafe from much higher altitudes, and thus with much less effectiveness. Even to land at Kabul Airport,
LIBERATION FRONT
 pilots must go through what have been described as “incredible*4 procedures,land-ing in tight corkscrew spirals and taking off as near vertically as possible.
   hi one of Mujahideen’s attacks in the first week of March a Soviet "helicopter carrying thirty Soviet troops was shot down en-route from Kabul to Jalalabad. Most of the troops on board were killed.
   Muhahideen have succeeded in their raid on a government air base near Kandahar, and crippled 14 aircraft in a heavy rocket attack. Mujahideen have also shot down a Soviet plane in Paktia Province which crashed at a place Azra in adjacent Logar province.
   Another Soviet plane which
 struck at Muhahideen centre on February 19, was shot down by anti-aircraft guns, as a result of which the plane caught fire. The Afghan Mujahideen also shot down a Soviet bomber in Jaji area of the Paktia Province.
    According to reports from Jehad fronts, Mujahideen have shot down more than 30 Soviet military aircraft in the month of May,87. The sources said that the capability of Mujahideen has greatly increased since they have aquired modem anti-aircraft last winter. The Russians are now unable to use helicopters even for routine surveillion missions.
    The Soviet military command therefore, does not want further loss of Soviet military planes and pilots. It is now using large number of its
MAY- JUNE - JULY - 1987     28