LIBERATION FRONT
 to Soviet instructors and engineers inside the country. From 1957 to 1974, more than 65,000 Afghan workers and technicians were trained in Soviet built enterprises and institutions in Afghanistan itself. In the wake of the massive Soviet economic assistance came large number of SoViet-bloc economic technicians and advisers. In 1970, more than half of the nearly 2,000 foreign experts attached with economic projects in the country were from the Soviet Union. It is reasonable to believe that the activities of all soviet-bloc' personnel in Afghanistan were
 closely coordinated with Moscow’s long term political and military objectives there. One may safely assume that a number of them maintained direct links with the KGB and the Soviet military intelligence service (the GRV).
    when the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) was split in 1967 into the Khalq and Parcham factions, the leaders of both continued close contact with the Soviet embassy in Kabul. Later, the Soviet Union was instrumental in bringing about the reunification of the Party in 1977, and it has played a unifying role since then. In light of this relationship between Moscow and the PDPA leadership, the vigorous recruitment drives were launched by Parcham and Khalq in the Afghan armed forces.
    There is little doubt that many of the Afghan trainees returned , from the Soviet Union with views extremely critical of, or downright hostile to the feudal-absolutist regime in their own country and supportive of rapid modernization and greater social and economic justice. The social origin of the majority of the tra^ihee^ also promoted such an outlook. It stands to Reason, and was indeed borne out by subsequent events, that some were successfuly converted to the Communist cause.
 /
    By the middle of November 1979, there were an estimated 4,500 Soviet military advisers in Afghanistan, down to the company level. With anti-government plotters safely ensconced in the Soviet embassy, Amin began to resent growing Soviet interference. In December as insurgency swept the country, and amidst indications of efforts by Amin to act independently of Moscow, the Soviet began a massive military build up inside Afghanistan and on the Soviet-Afghan border a nervous Amin was reduced to an ineffective spectator, though for a while Moscow maintained an aura of negotiations purportedly to obtain his consent for the influx of Soviet troops, but in vain.
    When Soviets dissatisfied with the attitude of Hafizullah Amin, decided that direct military intervention was necessary. After quietly introducing military elements piecemeal in December 1979, a massive airlift, began during the night of 27 December, Soviet forces murdered Amin and seized control of Kabul.
    The Soviet plan was to incorporate Afghanistan into its imperial order in much the same way it did Mongolia. For this purpose, Soviets undertook a massive programme for the Sovietization of Afghanistan. Thai Russian sent
 6,000 to 10,000 Afghan students for training in the Soviet Union to replace the often suspected administrators who were ruhning the country under the guidance of KGB. The Soviet goal was also to consolidate the Communist regime in Afghanistan, so if some day the Soviet troops withdraw from Afghanistan they would leave behind a government that pays respectful attention to their interests. There was also the military campaign to eliminate all opposition. IJepopulauot*, starvation, terror, lyHoouaj^tra^ditional socio-
                                                                                                                April, May-1990.
 economic struct urcs these were the methods of coercive Sovietization. Being seasoned propagandists, Soviet leaders spread the word that they must use force because of the unreasoning opposition of backward, feudal elements hostile to modernization and social changes. Soviet officials were also far from shy about their intentions. One such official in Kabul referring to the resistance to Soviet occupation, stated before Soviet withdrawal that "Time changes everything. In another 10 to 20 years, the new generation of Afghanistan will view our presence differently".
    The Soviet had a long view in their approach to the subjugation of Afghans. The strategy adopted was not a purely military one, but rather a multifaceted one designed to eliminate the popular support without which the resistance cannot operate.
    To conclude: The Soviet Union viewed Afghanistan in a broader prospective. They planed to built up the pro-Soviet People’s Democratic party of Afghanistan (PDPA), in order to institutionalize Communist rule. While hammering away at the resistance, Moscow worked for the development of cadres and institutions in the country. Realizing that this will take time, the Soviet leadership took thousands of Afghan youths to the Soviet Unions for training and indoctrination. The hope was that they would become loyal to the Soviet backed regime in Kabul, in exchange, they would receive position and rewards. Clearly the aim was that to attract those who aspire to rise in the new political system that Moscow was trying to create.
    However, the Russian plan for the occupation of Afghanistan and for the Sovietization of Afghans was not successful. In the coming years the historian will be able to produce sufficient evidence for the Soviet failure in Afghanistan.
25