                          Dr. George W. Collins
THE
WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN
 dded Alf-i-Tham sarhmdt for his services to Islam.” Though, Akbar was jealous to Islam but his disciples became true Muslims with the effort of Mojadded Alfi-thani. As Ha/.rat Mujadded Alfi-thani-Sarhindi was devoted follower of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH), God Almighty therefore, blessed him and took him into his friendship. Dr. Zabihullah said.
   He called on Afghan Mujahideen to fight against the Soviet invading troops with unity, zeal and devotion as trite and sincere Muslims and set the example of Mujahideen of Badar and Ohud and of the companians of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him), and follow the teaching of the Prophet of Islam in day today iifd.
   Earlier, the ceremony of Milad-un-nabi was opened with few verses from the Holy Quran followed by Niaat and Hamad. Maulvi Shmwari, Chairman of Jamiat-j-Utama-i-Mohammadi, and Mr. Kfiawan, Chairman of the Cultural and Publication Committee of the Afghan National Liberation Front also talked oh the occasion.
   The conference for JEid-i-Milad was closed with prayers for the success of Mujahideen and Darood was sent on to the Prophet of Islam (peace be upon him). l' j
           O
    The initial reaction of the Afghan people to the coup of April 1978 that over threw the government of Mohammad Daoud was relatively passive. That summer, however. as the true Marxist colors of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan (DRA) were revealed, resistance emerged.
    Beginning in Nuristan and Badakhshan, rural opposition spread rapidly and reached most provinces within ten months. The first urban uprising occurred in Herat in March 1979, and many other cities and towns soon were affected. The resistance continued to grow in scope, althoogh the* number of mujahidin (freedom lighters) was relatively small. Operating in a country that is a paradise for guerillas, the mujahidin laid ambushes, attacked outpost!, and assassinated provincial officials. In the cities and towns, they encouraged demonstrations and strikes. By the end of 1979, virtually no part of the country, except the rftajor cities, was securely controlled by the government. Nevertheless, the
 resistance was unable to oust the DR A because of the lack of arms, cohesion, and leader-ship.
   Becoming increasingly disillusioned by the DRA's inability to cope with rhc situa-tion and dissatisfied with the policies and attitude of Hafiz-ullah Amin, the bead of state, the Soviet Union decided that djrect military intervention was necessary. After quietly' introducing military elements piecemeal in December 1979, a massive airlift, began on Christmas Eve. and during the night of 27 December, Soviet forces murdered Amin and seized control of Kabul.' Motorized rifle divisions swung down the two highways from the Soviet Union through western 3nd central Afghanistan, capturing Afghan army and air bases and controlling the highway network. Babrak Karmai was installed swiftly as the new president of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan
   The invasion was a classic Soviet military operation employing deception, speed, and substantial force. The airlift
LIBERATION FRONT
—r
10
DECEMBER. 1987