 country, in the presence of Russian forces is a prison. Towns and villages of the occupied areas, military barracks, and offices are all in all prisons and jails. In the cities, people are checked and frisked in each • few steps, houses are checked in each few days, villages are besieged and young and old alike are captured and forcibly sent to the army service and- then, contrary to their wish, they are used in the abominable war against their own brothers. Military posts of the so called Afghan Army are surrounded by anti-personnel mines so as to make the conscripts unable to desert. In the course of fighting too these Afghans are placed in the forefronts so they should be the fuel of war and on the other hand because of fear of the Kalakoves of the Russian officers in the back lines should reluctantly fire against
 their own brothers and libera-ters.
 What do the Russians and their agents think that those who have taken up arms against the Russian forces and the toppling of their agent and puppet regime and have until now waged a Jahad, would be decieved by such preposterous proposals and would make commitments in the enemy’s favour?
 Just and just upon the withdrawal of Russian forces and the fall of the communist regime and the establishm-ment of an Islamic govern-
 ment in Afghanistan the morning of independence will dawn and our nation would be rescued from slavery and subjugation.
 The component parties of the Ittehad-e-Islami- Mujahideen Afghanistan who have complete unanimity of views about the recent tricks of the enemy and its rejection, are currently discussing the sound continuation of jehad and procedures of ey tablishment of an interim Mujahideen government which will be responsible for paving the way for holding general free and fair elections for an elected Islamic government.
 At the conclusion of the discussions of the high council of the Alliance the following decisions were made:
 1)   While we want a total, unconditional and immediate pull out of the Russian forces, we beliSve we have no other alternative for the liberation of our country and the establishment of an Islamic order, than continuation of armed struggle.
 2)   After the overthrow of the puppet regime and the expulsion", of Russian forces 'an interim government of the Mujahideen takes over in Afghanistan.
 3)   Under the supervision of the interim government, general free and fair elections are held and as a result an elected Islamic government,
 and parliament would be established.
 4)   It has been agreed upon that a commission be set up to draft the laws and regulations of establishing an interim government and the procedures of its formation and the determination of the authorities and duties of this interim government. This commission is supposed t3 start its work from February 1st, ‘87 and should complete its mission within one month and present its work ot the high council of the Alliance for approval.
 5>) A decision was made for the formation of judicial delegations which would be responsible for arbitrating between individuals and armed groups of Mujahideen, ironing out their differences and giving “Sharia Fatwas”-religious verdicts on disputes. The verdicts and decisions of these judicial delegations should be operational on all individuals and mujahideen groups.
 6) In the wake of the establishment of Islamic parliament, the constitution of the Islamic state would be drafted and drawn up. This constitution would guarrantee die implementation of Islam in all walks of individual and social life of our people and natioa
............. - ■                 -   —  >■             fp—........  ..
LIBERATION FRONT                  MAY - JUNE - JULY - 1987           tQ