LIBERATION FRONT                        April, May-1990.
Fir Syed Ahmad Gilani, Chief Justice of IIGA addressing a press conference in Peshawar.
MUJAHIDS TO ELECT LOYA JIRGA WITHIN TWO MONTHS: GILLANI
    The chief of AIG election commission, Pir Syed Ahmad Gillani, said on Tuesday May 22, that 2500-member Loya Jirga will be elected within next two months, with ten members representing each subdistrict.
    Addressing a press conference, Pir Gillani Chief justice of the Interim government of Afghanistan said that elections would be the best opportunity to the people of Afghanistan to exercise their right of self determination. Loya Jirga would later elect the president, he said, adding former King Zahir Shah and women could, also take part in the elections. Describing the election formula as unanimous decision of the componQnt of the AIG. Pir GiHani hoped that Mujahidcn parties outside the fold of AIG would also take part in the
elections.
    He pointed out that Loya Jirga would be elected from the liberated areas, while seats would be reserved for those areas under the control of the Afghan government.
    Answering a question, chief of the election commission said that the proposed election formula was quite flexible and added that local people hailing from a particular district were competent to decide weather they would elect their members or select or nominate them. "It would be entirely upon the locals to decide. Pir Gillani said.
    Of the ten members from a district, one would be nominated for the national assembly (Ulasi Jirga), while remaining nine would be members of Loya Jirga and local council of that district. Pir Gillani
said in response to yet another
question. He said that Loya Jirga would later elect the head of the State, who would also appoint a commission to draft the constitution of the country. Once the constitution was drafted, president or head of the state would invite any member of the Loya Jirga to form the government, known as national assembly or (Ulasi Jirga), Pir Gillani added.
    Pir Gillani pointed out that Qazi Amin Waqad, Chief of Ir-tehad-i- Islami of Mujahideen Afghanistan has also agreed to participate in the proposed elections. He hoped that parties outside AIG would take part in the elections as they had no other way out except to accept the propose formula.
9