EDITORIAL.
AFGHAN PROBLEM
  ♦
IN THE END OF 1987
THE INVASION. LOYA-JIRCA. UNITED NATIONS - RESOLUTIONS, MUJAHIDEEN LEADERS. AND REAGAN GORBACHEV SUMMITE;
     As a matter of fact The Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan has been started from the coup d’etate of April 1978, in which the Soviet directly interfered.
     The Soviet Jet bombers flew straight-way from Tashkent air base and shelled the Presidetial Palace in Kabul'killing Daud Khan his family, security guard and some of the cabinet ministers present in the Palace. The Soviet troops were also airlefted in Kabul and Bagram Air-port on the same night of 26th April 1978.
      Thus, the Soviet forces took over the power on 27th April 1978, proclaiming Taraki as the puppet President of the socalled Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. However, the Russian administration could ndt satisfy with the policies of Taraki, Hafizullah Amin, and therefore, removed them one after another and paved the way for their direct military intervention and control of Afghanistan.
      On December 27, 1979, at 7.15 P.M. the Soviet troops that had been airlefted into Kabul, including AN-12, AN-22 and 357th Mechanized Rifle Division, made a-coordinating attack on key governmental installations of Hafizullah Amin, and two or three more battalion, of tanks further moved towards the Darul-Aman Palace, where Amin with his security guard had earlier moved on December, 22. The wing of the Palace was destroyed, the Soviet troops intered killed Amin and wiped out his security guard, on the rediculous plea that Amin had invited Soyiet troops to defend Afghanistan against the foreign aggressors.
k
     The Kremline interest was neither involved in Taraki, nor in Amin and had no sympathy with Babrak, but the real goal of ttie Soviet Leaders was to bring Afghanistan by any possible means under the sphere of their direct control.
     The Soviets conception in regard to Afghanistan was similar to that of Bukhara, which the Soviets inyadedsiqd conquared it in 1920. without any sufficient resistance from its O'firorti th^neighbouring states to oust the Soviet troops. In this respect, it a^ Pakistani student who was studying at Moscow University that “In Afghanistan, a Russian student asked his professor to comment m.* Hfs reply was simple “Our troops were able to conquar Afghanistan with in a w<^k”, profess^/said.
 people and has been 1979, wh^Br on the Afghan problem.
 But after a year,
 Soviet Leaders themselves realized their blunder the invasion of
 LIBERATION FRONT
4
DECEMBER, 1987