        This was exercised by John F. Kennedy an energetic President of the United States of America in 1962. when he issued an ultimatum to the Communist leaders in Kremline to evacuate from Cuba within24 hours. The Soviets bowed to Young President Kennedy, immediately removed their missiles from cuba “bitten the bullet”, packed up and went horn.” Soviet always bow to the Command of superior or equalent power when there is threat of force behind.
        The Afghan problem will not be settled with politics and summit meetings but with force and the spirit of Islam in the Afghan Mujahid nation to continue their Jehad until the last Soviet soldier withdraws from Afghanistan.
          A.N.L.F. Celebrated Eid-i-Milad-un-Nabi
   The birth day of Prophet Mohammad (peace be upon him) was celebrated on November 4, 1987, in the premises of the headquarters of the Afghan National Liberation Front on Charsaddah road, Peshawar, with traditional religious fervour and Khatam-i-Quran.
   The ceremony was attended • by a large number of Mujahideen, Muhajireen, officebearers, Chairmen of various Committees, Members of the shoora and Ulema (religious scholars) of the ANLF.
   Dr. Zabihullah Mojaddedi, General Secretary of the Afghan National Liberation Front, after reciting few verses from the Holy Quran and sending “Darood” on to Prophet of Islam' (ij>eace be: upon him) thanked the audience for attending the ceremony — the birth day of Propeht (peace be upon him).
   Dr. Mojaddedi spoke on the “Revival of Prophet.of Islam’s (PBUH) Methods in Educating today’s Muslims”. The devotion of Prophet Mohammad (PBUH), his sacrifices, ■ and services he has rendered to Islam and humanity and said that the teaching and instructions of the Holy Prophet have enriched the values of those who followed him sincerely in their day today life. It is difficult to summarize his teaching, the way he has lived and tho»high qulities he possessed, in such a brief function. Many scholars since the birth day of Prophet of Islam (PBUH) have written so many vaiumes about his life, but scholars have not yet succeeded to complete the task of covering all aspects of his holy life during the past 14 centuries, he said.
   Hazrat Mujadded Alf-iThani Imam-i-Rabbani (may God be pleased with him) has written
8
in one of his letters, “in Maktubat, that “It is defficult in this world to fully realize the value, significance and superiority   of       Prophet
Mohammad (peace be upon him). His superior status will be better understood and become more vivid in the here-after....”
   Prophet of Islam (PBUH), Dr. Zabihullah said, has tought us, love and affection for each other, unity and cooperation, morality, paternity and services for man-kind. Being a universal Prophet, his life was meant for the welfare, reforms, perfiction and blessing for the world.
   During the 23 years of his Prophethood, Dr. Mujadded i said thousands and thousands of people accepted and embraced Islam and became true and sincere followers of the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH). In Hujat-ul-Widaa (the last
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987