LIBERATION FRONT                          April, May-1990.
Soviets were invited to provide the Afghan nation with bread, clothes and shelter.
time of Tarakf, Shahnawaz Tanai played a deceiving role in the killing of Mujahideen and other civilians in the city of Herat. He, as a military officer, flew from Kandahar Province by helicopter along with his troops, while Herat city was under the siege of the Mujahideen, and no one was allowed to enter the city, where the Muslim people of Herat and the Mujahideen were fighting against the Khalq-Parcham puppet goverh-ment in the city. On landing in Herat, General Tanai and his soldiers hoisted white flags on their tanks on which the KALIMA was inscribed. They raised slogans of Allah-u-Akbar in the disguise of Mujahideen to deceive the Muslim freedom fighters. Seeing their white flags, the Mujahideen thought that perhaps a military division had defected to the Mujahideen and had come to their help. The Mujahideen, therefore, allowed them to enter the city. With this trick, Tani, along with his troops, entered the city of Herat and killed innocent men, women, children
   and old people. Similarly, in the same year of 1978, Shahnawaz Tani watched the massacre, where the Soviet military divisions and soldiers machine gunned the innocent villagers of Kirala in Kunar Province under his (Tani) command.
     . Could this inhuman, brutal and cruel ac-tions of Tani be forgotten by the Jvlujahideen, particularly by the people of Hetrat and Kunar provinces?
     Thus,the coup attempt of 6th March 1990, led by Shahnawaz Tanai to topple the puppet Najib was actually the internal affair of Khalq- Parcham factions. In this coup, Khalqies wanted to overthrow the Parcham ruling party and seize the power, but it' ended in failure. The coup was not in the interest of Mujahideen, because it is impossible for Mujahideen to make coalition government either with Khalq or Parcham, as they both are the sole enemies of Islam r and Mujahideen as ^uCh. Had the Mujahideen desire to make coalition
1