 acts.
    Respectable audience; we wish that all refugees. Mujahideen and the Muslim nation of Afghanistan keep aside' all partisan prejudices, ethnic prejudices and linguistic prejudice and obey the orders of Great God that teachs us humanity, justice and equality. On the Day of Judgement the Allah (SWT) does not ask you why were you not a member of National Liberation Front, Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan, Hizb-i-lslami or Harakat-i-Inqilab Islam i or in this or that organisation. But, He asks as to what belief and deeds you have got with you, what did you do with your God His creatures and your religion. So, for the almighty God, for real Muslims, the best of us and the most honourable of us is he who is the most virtuous. May the Almighty God bless us with real virtues. May the Almighty God bless us with pious deeds. The Prophet (Peace be Upon Him) said “Human beings are all equal. The Arab is not superior to Non-Arab and the Non-Arab is not superior to the Arab”. Respectable audience, the great philosopher of Islam (Allama Iqbal) says the following Poem:
    Ve are neither Afghans, nor Turk, nor Tartors; we are (equal) in parallel to a grass field and stem from a single branch.
     For us discrimination of colour and adore is forbidden For, we have nourished from one early spring.”
     I shall not take more of
     your precious time. May
     God Bless you.
  LIBERATION FRONT
Pakistan’s Worry Over Afghanistan
              DR. ANWAR KHAN
   Neighbours, individuals or states have many things in common. Afghanistan as an independent state came on the map of the world in 1747: but previously it shared for centuries the political destiny of the Indian sub-continent. Afghanistan lay on the historic trek of the human migration from inner Asia to South Asia. Human movement carried with it human civilisations, culture and religions. Islam came to the sub-continent predominantly via Afghanistan, and it subsequently provided a large number of leaders, spritual and political. Most of the ruling dynasties of Islamic India were Afghans and almost all celebrated saints in the subcontinent are of the Afghan origin.
   It may be of interest to know that the founder of the state of Afghanistan, Ahmad Khan, later Shah, was born at Multaa The Muslims of the sub-continent took pride in a growing Muslim state, on the north western fringes of the sub-continent. And I give you here a few of the instances of how the Muslims of the subcontinent looked upon
 Afghanistan during the course of history over the last two centuries The Muslim state in India at this time, was confronted with many threats, internal (Sikh, Jat and Marathas) and external (the Europeans on the coastlines, the English and the French) and a call for help from the Muslim leaders both political (Mughal King Shah Alam) and spiritual Shah Waliullah) sent to Ahmad Shah Abdali. The latter responded promptly to it and crushed the enemy (Maratha) at Panipat making life easy for the Muslims in India. The second call came from Sultan Tipu of Mysore to the address of Zaman Shah of Kabul which somehow did not materialize.
     It was in 1818 that the Sadozis and the Barakzis picked up a quarrel in Afghanistan. The ruling house of the Sadozis was ousted by the Barakzis which again was split into seven states each held by one of the Barakzis. This posed a terrible situation. The Muslims of India, then highly weak, pestered by the English from the south east and hara-. ssed by the Sikhs in the north,
M AY - JUNE - JULY - 1987
 14