Afghan children are not ammune from Soviet bombardment.
 tims and witnesses of attacks indicated that non-lethal in capacitating chemical and lethal chemicals - including nerve agents, phosgene or phosgene Oxim, possibly tri-chothecene toxine, and mustered were used. Medical paralysis, other neurological effects, blisters, bleeding, and sometimes death. These agents are for more toxic than riot-control agents such as CN and CS or even admisite.
   Several descriptions of the physiological action of a chemical agent or of the condition of the corpes of victims were particularly unusual. In one, victims were rapidly rendered unconscious for 2—6 hours and had fey after effects. In another case, the bodies were characterized by abnormal bloating and blackened skin with a dark — raddish tinge, and the flesh appeared decayed very soon after death. The Russians also use an extremely rapid-acting lethal chemical that is not detectable by normal senses and that causes no outward physiological responses before death, and the Mujahideen die on the spot in any position they may keep.
   Medical reports from examinations of refugees from Nen-garhar Province described red skin and blisters continuing fluid described as “dirty water", effected a larger number of people after contact with a dirty yellow cloud. Many reports' from different sources strongly support thp case that irritants were used by Soviet helicopters units
 from April 20       29,-  1981
 in areas East and West of Kabul and in the Kunar valley to drive the Freedom Fighters from sancturies, such as caves, into the open to expose them to attack with convention weapons and in-capacitants to render them tractable for disarming and capture. The ammunitions were described as Soviet 250-kilogram RBK cluster bombs. Similar operation .have also been taken in Kandahar Province,
                                                                 -m
   A former Afghan MI-8 Helicopter Pilot and other military defectors also confirmed the reports that Soviet forces had used chemical weapons in Badakhshan Kandahar, and Kunar, chemicals in con-sisters that contained toxin gas, tear gas, and antire-spiratory gas, which has an incapacitating effect by causing chaking and difficulties in breathing were manually t
                                                                I?
pushed from the cargo compartment of helicopters. The pilot said that there also was a specific gas that is absorbed by the body and leaves the skin see soft that a Finger can be pushed through it. In one case there was a wind shift and Soviet and Karmal forces were seriously affected. In another case when the situation worsened for Soviet forces, the helicopters delivered a single rocket, releasing a chemical that killed 16 Mujahideen. During operations in Kunar Valley. Soviet helicopters also conducted gas attack in 25 different areas, using cylinders about 1.5 meters long and 60 centimeters in diameter that exploded 4-5 meter above the ground, releasing the incapacitating gas. Some victims lost consciousness, were paralyzed, and recovered, but other died, and unprotected areas of their skin turned dark green to blue-green.
LIBERATION FRONT
DECEMBER, 1987