              VIOLATION AND BARBARISM
       Continued from page 27
 in the Province of Paktia were destroyed by 122 MM guns. Three days after these incidents, more helicopters were destroyed at Khost Airport.
   The Mujahideen shot down another Soviet transport plane which crashed in the vicinity of Kabul on November, 2.
   However, the Jehad in Afghanistan is in full-swimg throughout the country, and the Soviet-Kabul forces losing ground to Mujahideen in every Province. Jet bombers, and Soviet Helicopter-gunships, tanks and armmoured cars are no more active against the Mujahideen since the Afghan freedom fighters have acquired some modem weapons and organized themselves in a better and substantial tfay in their Jehad against the Soviet invaders: With the /spirit of their faith,* the help bf Al-
   wounding of innocent population, and extesive damage to
 mighty allah and with the cooperation of Islamic Ummqh. and freedomloving Nations, Afghan Mujahideen have succeeded to linerate more than 90% of the land from Soviet expansionists.
   It was force, faith, the spirit of Islam and the love for freedom of the Afghan nation that bend down the Soviet super-power on its knees, and forced them to search way and means for tlje withdrawal of their troops from Afghanistan
public property by Soviet-Kabul armed forces was strongly protested to the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul, and the detail was also conveyed to the United Nations and the Secretary General was kept informed and further requested to ask the puppet regime to desist from such barbarous acts, but the Soviet backed regime in Kabul ignored the recommendations of the United Nations and several wamning of Pakistan Government, and continued its provocative acts against Pakistan.
   But inspite of all such hostile attitude of Soviet and its puppet regime in Kabul, the Government of Pakistan politely accepted the request of Soviet Government and handed over six captured Soviet military helicopter gun-ship crew to the Soviet Embassy as a gesture of goodwill, in Islamabad.
   The friendly gesture and civilzed manner of the Government and the people of Pakistan to wards the Soviet Government was appreciated by all those, who love peace and tranquility in the region. But what would be the response of Soviet Government for such a harmonious transaction in the long run':
      The Russians in 1979, thought that their invading troops will be able to conqure Afghanistan within a week, but soon after they realized their blunder.
LIBERATION FRONT
32
DECEMBER, 1987