The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
the hearts of the Azerbaijan Muslims that they were unable to express their grief for many years.
When the Islamic Revolution took place in Iran in February 1979, the slogan of the Allah-u-Akbar reached the ears of Azeris. At the the same time, the heroic struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen and their staunch faith to continue Jihad against a superpower encouraged the Russian Muslims to liberate themselves from the clutches of socialist imperialism. The announcement of political and economic reforms in 1986, i.e., “Perestroika” and “Glasnost”by Gorbachev, increased the expectation among the Azeri Muslims of fairness and reforms.
The Azeri scholars and writers further aroused the inner sentiments of the Russian Muslims by pointing out to the people how the Communists exploited the Azerbaijani Muslims and other subjugated nations during the last 70 years. The 1979 expenditure for Azerbaijan which is composed of a population of seven million was less than four billion Rubles, compared to a similar four billion Ruble budget for Lithuania which has a population half that of Azerbaijan. The per capita of the Baltic states is 7000 Rubles, while that of Azerbaijan is 1500 Rubles. The salary percentage is 200 Rubles in Russia as compared to 165 in Azerbaijan. Such deplorable discrimination does not match the slogans of the comrades in asocialistcountry like the Soviet Union.
Apart from economic and social exploitation, the republic of Azerbaijan was divided into autonomous regions with the view to keep them constantly fighting with Armenia and Georgia. The constant fighting of these three states suited Russia because none of the three would be able to think about their independence from Russia, so Russia intentionally created these prob-
lems. Azerbaijan was forcibly divided into two parts. As a consequence of its division, its territory of Nakhjawan fell into Armenian area, and Nagomo-Qarabagh became disputed in Azerbaijan. The people of Nakhjawan have to pass through Armenia and Nagomo-Qarabagh in order to reach Baku. Na-gomo-Qarabagh which is situated in Azerbaijan is heavily populated by Armenians, causing the Armenians to consider it as their own territory. In this way the Russians created a situation for continual ethnic conflict between the Azeris and the Armenians.
A dispute has also been created between Azerbaijan and Georgia. The
T urkish race of Azerbaijan speak mostly Turkish language. Russia always has had a fear of Pan-Turkism, therefore she has tried from the beginning to divide the Turks and did not allow an Azeri relationship with Turkey.
It is beyond doubt that two events have shattered the isolation of the people of the Azerbaijan and helped to reawaken the assertiveness of Russia's Muslims: The Islamic Revolution in Iran and the Jihad in Afghanistan. The Afghan Mujahideen were the first to systematically infiltrate religious and political literature into Central Asia (Western Russian-HeldTurkistan).
When Gorbachev announced his reforms as a result of the Afghan Jihad, Azeri brothers for the first time discussed their exploitation by Russia.
They became alert not to allow Armenians and Georgians to confiscate their territories. They believed that the West would support Armenia against them. The situation in Nakhjawan and Baku is more serious than before because the Muslims are surrounded from three sides by Christians. They have no alternative but to get support from Iran and Turkey. That is why they removed border restrictions between Iran and Communist Russia.
For the Communist Russia, the situation is fast deteriorating. Russians initially consulted with Iran because they were hesitant to strain relations with Iran as they are trying to achieve their interests through Iran which were foiled in Afghanistan, and they want to stop other Central Asian Muslims from revolt againstCo-mmunist Russia. Iran recommended caution but Communist Russia has ruthlessly crushed the Azeri Movement, martyring thousands of Azeri Muslims and indiscriminately injuring thousands more. Azeri Muslims have been dec lared g uil ty of forming an Islamic government . Other republics of Com m uni st Russia, like Latvia and Lithuania, also have demanded their independence, but they were not crushed with the brute forceby Communist Russia which was witnessed against the Azeri Muslims. Maybe Russia understood that installation of an Islamic state in Central Asia would be the end of Russian imperialism and supremacy over other republics.
Communism is dying its natural death and can no longer be a challenge to Islam. Not Capitalism, but Islam provides the best solution to the problems being faced by mankind. Now it is the duty of every Muslim individually as well as collectively to extend support to Islamic movements in the world.	,—,
Communism is dying its natural death and can no longer be a challenge to Islam. Not capitalism, but Islam provides the best solution to the problems being faced by mankind. Now it is the duty of every Muslim individually as well as collectively to extend support to Islamic movements in the world.
Page 35