nism? We do not know which one of them has become Muslim.
Mujahid brothers :
Our Islamic revolution is in a very sensitive and eventful stage. We should move and take steps with wisdom and prudence. We should identify the enemy's consperacies and nip them in the bud. We should avoid feeding on pseudo hopes and expectations which are misleading like a mirage. We should not be taken in by the enemy's deceptive manoeuveraboltity duping us in to accepting transient and provisional solutions. We should not allow the enemy to achieve by deception what they could not achieve in the 104 months long war. When the sly enemy sensed that the suppression of our Mujahid nation was not possible in the battlefield and that the atrocities and the increase in military units did not work, they resorted to beguiling hap: for the achievement of their nefarious designs.
Every revolutionary movement, in the course of its struggle, does pass through such sensitive stages. Those who compromise on this delicate juncture and deign toward let-up in the momentum on vain hopes, indeed, lose all their gains. The example of the Algerian revolution is before us where one million people wer martyred under the banner of Islam due to their agreeing to a political solution and the establishment of national government just when the victory vjas quite close. As a result the revolutionaries failed to achieve their goal of Islamic revolution and the power was snatched by those who had no stake in the whole struggle.
On historical consciousness calls for the continuation of the armed struggle till the Islamic flag is hoisted on a free and independent land. Condescension to the ceasefire in the presence of Russian forces in Afghanistan is an ignoble and unpardonable act which neither Allah will forgive nor the 1.1 million martyres.
For the solution of the Afghan crisis, the cessation of war and bloodshed and restora-
tion of peace and security in our country we propose a solution based on the following three main conditions:
1.	The unconditional, complete and immediate withdrawal of Russian forces from Afghanistan.
2.	The establishment of an interim government, supported by our Mujahid nation which will prepare the ground for general election.
3.	The establishment of an Islamic elected government as a result of free and fair election.
Those who do not accept our proposal and choose to resort to the use of force and conspiracies and compromise on principles for achieving their nefarious designs, we declare that the slogan of our Mujahid nation during armed struggle will be the following:
As long as there are Russian forces in our country and the sowrd-law continues, war is our shield and war is our skill. Continuation of armed Jihad until the expulsion of foreign troops. War until independence, peace after victory. We will not be statisfied with anything less than an Islamic government in the free and independent Afghanistan. We will not lay down our arms until the total, unconditional and prompt withdrawal of the Russian forces from Afghnistan. In the presence of Russian forces in Afghistan we consider the end of war even for a moment as a felony. As long as there is a single foreign soldier on our soil our struggle will be continuing uninterrupted.
Let us renew our commitment to Allah as well as people and pledge on this historic day: (Those who share the following commitments should raise their hands)
** We would not be satisfied with anything less than an Islamic government in free and independen t A fghan is tan.
** Until the total, unconditional and prompt withdrawal of the Russian forces we will not lay down our arms.
We believe that the continuation of our armed struggle will ultimately force the aggressive Russians to vacate our country uncondi-
The Mujahideen Monthly
11
Jan — Feb 1987