of our Pan-Arabists it would also be discovered that it is a carbon copy of communist principle of proletariat “dictatorship” As Lenin strove to remove Czarist monarchists and Stalin came to consolidate the revolution by his bloody purge of post second world war. Jamal Abdul-Naseer and his disciples commenced too their operation- “house cleaning” which was as brutal as Stalinist purge except that the former never stopped cleaning until they were carried into the graves.
The last objective of Arab
1	The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991	5
nationalist was taken from Jamal-u-Deen Afghani’s Pan-Islamism transmitted to Egyptian politics through his devoted student Muhammad Abdul, who later became the Rector of Al-Azhar university in Cairo. From here Jamal Abdul-Naseer and his co-exponents took Jamalu-Deen verbatim with very slight, variations. Where the world “Islam” occurred they put'Arab’ in its place and Muslim historical data and the noble life of the Holy prophet (on him be peace and blessings) were projected as heroism of Arab nation.
Page 14
Soon they ran into problems on many fronts. Larger part of Islamic Intellectual contribution and political consolidation were performed by non-Arab Muslims! Similarly, the Prophet himself and his companion denounced nationalism, Arab or non-Arab! The concept of Arabism or Ba’athism or even Middle East nationalism therefore has no grounds. A situation which has been compelling its authors to run from one school of thought to the other in trying to survive amidst numerous catastrophes... • ■ ■ " " ■
•• ■ ■ ■ ■ »**
rIVipartite moot declaration
Najib’s ouster must
Islamabad: The two-day trilateral talks held here between Pakistan, Iran and all factions ofPakistan and Iran-based Afghan Mujahideen concluded on Tuesday, (July 30) after approving a joint declaration pleading for a solution to the Afghanistan problem which should lead to the replacement of the present illegal government in Kabul and the establishment of an elected Islamic government acceptable to the people of Afghanistan.
The tripartite meeting which was attended by the Foreign Minister of Iran Dr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Secretary General Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Akram Zaki and the leaders of the Pakistan and Iran-based Afghan Mujahideen parties also ended on a positive note of preliminary understanding over the number of eats allocated to the representatives of seven Shiya Afghan political parties based in Iran in the joint28-member commission to be constituted for holding elections in Afghanistan of an elected government
The understanding finally arrived at between Iran and Pakistan-based Afghan groups would pave the way for a greater unity among all factions of the Afghan Mujahideen. The Iran-
based Mujahideen, who earlier had demanded at least Five seats in the proposed commission, would nowbe satisfied with there seats.
Addressing the joint press conference at the conclusion of the talks with Pakistan Secretary General Foreign Affairs Akram Zaki .The Iranian Foreign Minister said that the second round of the trilateral talks would be held in Tehran within 45 days to work out a concrete formula. Describing the holdi ng of these parleys as a historic event in the struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen, the visiting Iranian minister expressed the hope that Tehran mootwould be more productive in view of the preliminary understanding reached between different Afghan groups during the Islamabad talks.
He said the Islamabad tripartite talks among Pakistan, Iran and almost 90 per cent of the Afghan leaders of different groups “is a turning point”, as these leaders now start understanding viewpoint of one and other which produced “consensus declaration on Tuesday,”
“I must say”, Dr. Velayati continued “every Afghan leader who comes down here for parleys has strong will and desire to save the destiny of their nation from this disastrous
situation.”
About role to be played by other Muslim countries in helping to bring out Afghanistan from the present crisis, the Iranian leader invited the attention of Muslim countries world over towards their religious, moral and historical role for ending the Afghan crisis.
Stressing for inclusion of all Afghan groups in the formation of next government in Afghanistan for the transitional period, Dr. Velayati said the future of a democratic Islamic Afghanistan is rested with fair treatment to these Afghan Mujahideen groups.
Iran and Pakistan have taken the initiative of arranging this tripartite talks and the process of consultations through peaceful negotiations should be continued in the future, he said adding” Iran would hold next round of tripartite talks in Tehran sometime during next month.”
Mr. Velayati disagreed with a question that Pakistan and Iran had perhaps trying to “impose a some kind of political solution on Peshawar and Tehran-based Afghan Mujahideen leaders.
Continued on PageO 3(