Vicitim of toy bombs.
courts, which were composed mainly of members of Khad, who often had created an atmosphere of insecurity and anguish, the Judge said.
Di Ermacoia said that in several cases, in the course of searches carried out in villages in various provinces, the murder of women, children and old people had been reported
He said the opeiations always followed the same pattern and to illustrate the methods used cited an actual search operation that was carried out. in Laghman province early in 1985.
He said the testimony of witnesses, which was substantially corroborated by other sources, gave a clear picture of the methods employed in the conduct of vilfage and house seaiches by government troops and foieign foices.
After bombaidment, tanks surround the villages during the evening; in the morning tioops enter .the villages -- each village at the same time. Houses are searched, money demanded, women and children in paiticular are questioned, usually about the whereabouts of the menfolk, and during the interrogation people are sometimes killed.
After the troops withdraw they return shortly afterwards and the same procedure begins again.
In this context, the Special Rapporteur obtained information on an incident which took place on February 2 last year in the village of Sandaly in Nangarhai province where soldiers executed 20 people, including eight womenn on the village square.
In the course of these attacks, carried out in order to locate Mujahideen, some cases of looting were reported to Dr Ermacora. But, he said, evidence indicated that the purpose of these searches was more to destroy the means of survival of the population assisting the Mujahideen, rather
than to pillage.
CONSCRIPTION
The Special Rapporteur said that he was told that in 1982 the regulations concerning the age for drafting into the army had been lowered to 15 years. There was forced conscription and the term of military service went up first from two to three years in 1982 and then to four years in 1984
He said that the conscription was contuning, depriving universities and schools of male students. In addition the conscription system was governed by severe, discriminatory methods and students belonging to families that adhered to the communist party or sympathised with it were exempted from
service at the age of 15, thus having the chance to continue their studies at home or abroad.
The Special Rapporteur also noted not just a discriminatory policy on the part of the government but also a sacrilegious one : mosques have been desecrated, religious books destroyed and in some cases even used as toilet paper. Muslims have also been forced to eat pork and drink alcohol One witness from Qulq,a village in Kandahar province, told Dr Ermacora that "by destroying religious books and acting in that way, they hoped that Muslims would no longer fight in the name of Allah"
The sacrilegious attitude of the Kabul regime is actually part of a broader policy under which the traditional education system has
24
The Mujahideen Monthly