The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 43
BWmanSociologv \
THE UNBROKEN CHAIN
Sociologists, political analysts, environmentalists and other contemporary thinkers have finally come to realize unitedly that man was a latecomer in the cosmos. Ironically this fact
though novel to a newly liberated consciousness of a true scientific researcher, is but as old as man himself if one ventures to follow the mode of constitency by which all heavenly revelations assert this old truth. The point is that nature is independent of both human existence and his limited awareness. The universe which had existed millions of years before mankind appeared, could as well do so for even a longer period without him.
This is perfectly an Islamic fundamental message. It makes the study of human cultural evolution more fascinating and likewise exposes the false arrogation of omnipotence that characterizes the oppressive cult of imperialism through-out ages. It also tells the intoxicated mind of the so-called modem man in the bluntest of all
languages, that his essentiality falls on nothingness at worst and strikes the cord of infinitesimality at best. However, between these two polar zones lies his obvious infirmity before natural laws and cosmic principles that rule our universe.
Similarly, it offers acceptable explanations for the common phenomenon of communal variations between groups of a particular human generation as well as solving the riddle of apparent differences between the same
society over an extended period of time. By this, every revolutionary development becomes intelligible, equality of men appears comprehensible and the common destiny of humanity as a unique single race could now be better considered under more illuminating sociological principles.
From here, one finds that the progress of human civilization cannot but be an unbroken chain of a unit global socio-political development. The motivations that bring about changes in any community or in an international garthering of purported sovereign states are as natural as the consequential results of such upheavals. No culture could claim absolute originality so much as modem experimental science can be taken as refined reflections of all human experiences since his arrival on this planet.
Global civilization would therefore form a parabolic structure if a Y-space graph is ploted against an x-time. The curve, indeed becomes part of a long wave length which if followed is seen to be rising at a point and falling at another but yet moves forward as a result of these fluctuating developments. The