^flbnAbayomi
Deep reflections on Afghan Jihad, have acceptedly, presented their own novel and creative expositions about man, faith, politics and collective aspirations. But all in in all, they primarily serve today as new and cogent confirmations of the perpetual struggle between Western rhetorical democracy and existing international diplomacy.
Since the winter of 1990, which also happened to be the thirteenth year of Muslim popular uprising and the eleventh year of a real armed and organized party resistance against Soviet invaders from abroad and their puppet Marxist dictators at home, Afghanistan has steadily become another victim of capitalist encroachment.
It took the bulk sector of the Mujahideen some sixty months after the notorious Geneva accord between the two Superpowers under the direct supervision or rather the insidious initiation of the UNO to realize that global Zionism which was originally represented in the country by the Red Army had dramatically changed its language of oppression from military invasion to political incapacitation.
Ten years ago, every body entrusted the Afghan Muslim Revolutionaries with the task of doing what was apparently then an impossibility. The calculation of the capitalist world was to tic the Islamic militancy down in Hindokush by giving it the arms and ammunitions to face the most brutal dictatorship on earth. The communist Soviet had but more than one other attributes; in that it had equal if not exceeding* militant inclination
k
which had also been proved savage in post second World War political history.
What the West would have gained if such a “bog-down” strategy were successful would have been muliple-fold. One, it would have won the sympathy of a large cross-section of the Muslim world by posing as a friend. Two, it would have prevented a resurgence of Islamic militancy in other parts of the world, since majority of the Muslim fighters might have been trapped in a probable stalemate or even eliminated if the Red Army gained the upper hand. Three, The financial resources of the so-called Muslim fundamentalists, which were used to advance Islamic courses all around the globe would be automatically directed to, and recircled in Afghanistan.
second-hand if not third class industrial equipments from the West. Then comes the exaggerated threat of Communist hegemony. Developing nations are told to run helter-skelter so as to protect themselves. This will be fully accomplished by using all their oil revenues. In the end the Islamic necessity of helping brothers in Afghanistan and other ideological-hot spots crops up which is also fulfilled by providing for the refugees and aiding the fighters. Eventually, the money, love affection and thanks are schemed to find their ways back to the West.
That was the Zionist empire of illusions. It was constructed on false premises that Communism would last longer to warrant the continuation of Marxist over blown threat, that Western
The simple formular here would just be “sell oil” from the Middle East and, get paid through Western Banks. Go and borrow money later from international financial houses in Geneva, London, Washington or New York. The so far borrowed h,uge amount is used in servicing previous interests on old debts also as payments for war machines and
stooges in Muslim countries would al ways com mand the conf dence of their nations, and that the Red Army could never be defeated in Afghanistan not by the “unruly tribal guerrillas”... Western dream was endless. It was a constellation of misguided imaginations that were formed from confused geo-political analyses and crystalized in the old glories