Who Stands Where?
By Faqir Ahmad
ow that one year has elapsed since the so-called withdrawal of Russian troops from Afghanistan the situation in that country is still unresolved. The Russians lost their Afghan War, but left behind an imposed regime headed by Najib, and the Afghan nation is still far from having peace. Who is to blame for this? Both internal struggles and outside influences have been playing a role.
In February one year ago, the seven Pakistan-based Afghan parties succeeded in selecting an Afghan S houra or Council from which an interim government emerged. This government had the responsibility of holding free and fair elections, but they have not held them yet although their term is up. Their recent proposal to put in place a body selected by Afghan elders who are selected by the party leaders from each district does not answer the need for elections to provide legitimacy to the government. It is unlikely that their formula would establish a government which would be acceptable to the Afghan nation as a whole.
In the world today, the problem of legitimacy is confronting the one-party Communist style regimes and
monarchies as well as the dictatorships. What kind of legitimacy does the recent Afghan Interim Government (AIG) formula offer? Should the sacrifices of millions of Afghans be bargained off for a system rigged to keep the present leaders in power? The reply is an emphatic “No!” The sacrifices of millions of Muslims for their beloved land were not for the cause of some local elders but for
the freedom of Afghanistan with its destiny to be determined by the Afghan people themselves.
This internal disagreement about the question of elections or selections is complicated by outside powers who feel they have a stake in Afghanistan and would like to influence its future.
Muslims are a peace-loving Ummah and so are the Afghans. At the same time, they know how to respond to those who invade their soil, snatching their land and killing and wounding their people. If it were not for the fierce
response of the Afghan Muslims, the Russians would not have withdrawn their troops from Afghanistan to a level lower than the troop levels in East European Bloc countries. Because the Afghan Muslims continue their fierce Jihad against the Afghan Communist regime which is heavily supported by Russians should not imply to the world that Afghanistan is a permanent danger to
international peace and harmony. This is a grave mis-conception about the Afghans which is causing unwanted outside interference.
On the one hand, the Russians are determined to keep a tight grip on their regime in Afghanistan to try to maintain their control of their south Central Asian republics and prevent the succession from the Union by these republics who are all in the midst of nationalist uprisings. However, military oppression and intransigency in keeping Najib’s regime in power while denying the Afghan people the right to choose their own government does not
Is he a hard-liner because he is the only person condemning the philosophy of selection rather than election, the continuation of kingship and the tribal feudal power structure?
Page 41