Hekmatyai on his arnval at Subang Airport received by H.E. Anwai Ibrahim the Mimstei of Agi icultuie and UMNO Leader and Sheikh Fazel the Deputy Foreign Mmistei
Hekmatyar’s Visit To Malaysia
j
The Government of Malaysia by being the first to give diplomatic recognition to the Afghan Mujahideen has ba I zed the trial for world wide recognition of the resistance.
The Government invited the Amir of Hezb-i-lslami, Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar, to Kuala Lumpur for the inauguration of the Mujahideen office which will have full diplomatic status. The Amir founded the ideological and armed struggle against social imperialism not only in Afghanistan but in the region.
Upon arrival at the Subang international airport at Kuala Lumpur Eng. Hekmatyar and his five member delegation were received by the Minister of Agriculture of Malaysia and leader of the
UMNO Youth, His Excellency
*
Anwar Ibrahim, the Deputy Foreing Minister, His Excellenfcy Shaikh Qader Shaikh FazH, the esteemed Ambassadors of Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia in Malaysia and a large number of youths and supporters of the Jihad in Afghanistan.
At the airport the Amir add ressed a packed press' conference and afterwards, accompanied by an official escort, was ^Iriven to his residence where he held a meeting with Brother Anwar Ibrahim.
Speaking at the opening of the office <on Sept. 10 the Amir said it was commendable that the Malaysian1 Government had taken such a realistic and courageous step by allowing the Mujahideen to establish the office.
:He said that the Mujahideen hoped that other countries, particularly Muslim Rations, would # follow Malaysia and realise that
only the Afghan Mujahideen were entitled to represent their nation in the international community.
'It is unjustifiable for all conscientious and sagacious people that those who are actually rejected by the Afghan people and those who have been installed and kept in power by 230,000 aggressive foreign troops, armed with the latest models of lethal weapons, be accepted as the representative of the Afghan nation, "Eng. Hekmatyar said.
The Amir said : "If the expansionist Kremlin rulers attain their imperialistic and hegemonistic ends in Afghanistan with impunity and ambivalence of the world commu-' nity, then we should expect similar catastrophies and holocausts in other parts of the globe as well.
"On the contrary, if the God-loving people and those who believe
The Mujahideen Monthly
i
23