Who inspired changes in Eastern Europe?
i---------------
By Dr. S.K. Raihan
Do great leaders make history? or do the events of history force inevitable decisions that make leaders seem great? This is a question historians have asked about Churchill, Roosevelt, Kennedy, and Kruschev. It is the question that is now and will be asked about Gorbachev. Did Gorbachev invent perestroika and glasnost or was it forced upon him by the times, most notably by the Afghan Jihad? The evidence favors the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, rather than any other personality or country, as the catalyst of the chain-breaking reaction spreading over Eastern Europe.
The invasion of Afghanistan was a tremendous blow to the reputation of the Soviet Union as a champion of Third World rights. Relations became strained with China and with Muslim countries in Asia and Africa as well as with the West. When the Mujahideen fought them on every front, how could the Soviets continue to say they were invited into Afghanistan?
The loss of Soviet boys in Afghanistan caused popular unrest at home. First the sons of the Central Asian republics were sent to blend in with the Afghan communists, but they felt sympathy with their Muslim and ethnic brothers. Then the sons of the Russian republics were sent to fight the imperialists, but they learned that there were no other imperialists in Afghanistan than the Russians themselves. Some sons never returned, some came back demoralized, and some returned addicted to drugs. The morale of the Soviet people was seriously deteriorating. How long could they believe the propaganda of their leader when their sons showed them that the Soviet story of Afghanistan was nothing but lies?
There was also popular unrest because of economic problems. Production of food and other necessities was not keeping pace with demand, Soviet technology and resources were concentrated on the production of tanks, planes, weapons,
and bombs. Some said Afghanistan was a much needed testing ground, but how much money could be blown up in bombs when the country's economy was floundering? Even today, when the Soviets claim to have withdrawn from Afghanistan, the Moscow News is complaining about their foreign expenditure. In 1989 the Soviets spent 21 times as much money on military and economic aid to foreign countries as compared to their expenditure on health in their own country.
How could the Soviet leader restore the Soviet reputation in the world, raise popular morale at home, and save the economy? Not by sabre rattling, but by advertising world peace. Not by sending more boys to Afghanistan, but by withdrawing from an "immoral" policy of invasion. Not by alienating the Third World, but by inviting exports of essential commodities such as oil and gas. These were the decisions of Gorbachev whose hand was forced in that direction by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
Most importantly, the Soviet hold on Eastern European satellite states loosened. Rosenthal said in The New York Times that some Europeans had long ago predicted "that if ever Moscow withdrew the threat of the Red Army to put down the struggle of the captive nations, the satellite regimes would eventually collapse". Where did the Red Army learn the lesson that invasion with tanks cannot suppress a popular revolt? They did not learn it in Armenia, Lithuania, Poland, Czechoslovakia, or Hungary. They learned it in Afghanistan! What was the catalyst which spurred the current freedom movement in Eastern Europe? It was not Bush or Gorbachev or even Lech Walesa. It was the belief that the Red Army would interfere no longer. It was the Soviet defeat by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan.
There is euphoria in the East and the West about the new freedoms
in Eastern European satellites, but there is only grim determination among the refugees of the newest satellite, Afghanistan. Their fathers, brothers, and sons have fought and died for their land and their freedom. To the amazement of the world, the Red Army has pulled out of Afghanistan and the threat of Communist suppression was lifted from the whole world. But no freedom is found in Afghanistan—no free speech, no freedom of religion, no freedom to form non-communist political parties. Three hundred million dollars worth of armaments pour into Kabul every month to terrorize, maim and kill Afghans, to suppress their common goal to make an Islamic state, to keep a puppet regime in power.
Afghan Mujahideen won freedom from Soviet domination for both the East and the West, for both Muslims and non-Muslims. In spite of this, the Afghan cause has been forgotten in the Western press. Today there are free demonstrations in the streets of Soviet satellites but none in the streets of Kabul. More Soviet-made bombs are dropping on Afghanistan than ever before. More refugees are fleeing to Pakistan, and more scarcity is expected in both urban and rural areas of Afghanistan. This is not how our heroes should be treated. The whole of the freedom-loving world should now stand by the Afghan Mujahideen who are not only the heroes of the Afghan people but of every individual to whom freedom means something.
Like the little people in the Wizard of Oz who danced in the street and sang, "The wicked witch is dead! The wicked witch is dead", so there is relief and jubilation in the West that Communist suppression seems to have come to an end in Eastern Europe. Let us raise the banner of freedom high-freedom from puppet regimes, freedom to choose one's own government, freedom from invasion by imperialists, freedom to live in peace with one's neighbours!
Let the heroes who fought for freedom not be forgotten! They are the Mujahideen of Afghanistan. They overcame seemingly insurmountable odds, and the Soviet army withdrew when they had never done so before. Let the world not ignore that the heroes are fighting still! Their cause is our cause, their freedom is our freedom!
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
TF
27