everywhere in Afghanistan. Every major Soviet base was attacked. The Soviets have succeeded in making limited areas safe from the Mujahideen and have suffered heavy casualties.
Q. You have claimed that 90 percent of Afghanistan's area has been liberated and is under the control of the Mujahideen.
A. Yes, it's true. It means that there are no government bases, no civil administation, no government offices. Everything is being controlled by the Mujahideen. Education, courts, administration, local governments. When the Russians try to enter these areas they face strong resistance. This is what we mean by liberated areas.
Q. If this it the case, why have the refugees living in Pakistan and Iran not returned home?
A. As you know, fighting is going on and no one is safe from bombardment. The Soviets are bombarding all areas indiscriminately. Whenever they launched an attack, instead of hitting out at Mujahideen bases, they bomb civilian areas. They have created famine-like conditions in the liberated areas. They have burnt fields, destroyed villages and demolished the houses of the peasants. The refugees are forced to continue living abroad because it is not safe anywhere. However, the Mujahideen remain in Afghanistan. They have safe areas and bases where they can take refuge.
Q. Would you like to comment on reports that the US has stepped up supplies of arms, including Stinger missiles, to the Mujahideen?
A. This is just propaganda. There are people who want to create the impression that the war is not a struggle between the Afghans and
the Russians, but a superpower conflict There are people, even here in ftikistan’ who are trying to create this impression. The pro-Russian element here is trying to offer a justification for the Soviet intervention and atrocities in Afghanistan by this suggestive propaganda — that the Mujahideen are backed by the western countries, particularly the USA — thus trying to prove that the USSR is not the only foreign party to the conflict. But one must remember that the struggle began during the Taraki regime and continued in the Hafizullah Amin period. All this took place while Jimmy Carter was in power in the US, the Democratic Party's policy is well-known. In fact. Carter had conceded that Afghanistan was an area of Soviet interest, only warning the Russians against moving any further. Even Pakistan recognised Taraki and Amin. Our struggle was in progress during this 18-month period. It only became an international issue when the Russian troops moved in. Most countries began to call for a Soviet withdrawal. Can all the 122 countries that have voiced support for an independent Afghanistan be accused of supporting us through supplies of arms etc.? This talk of supply of US weapons is merely propaganda.
Q. Do you deny receiving any arms or other material help from the US? Has there not been a definite change in the US attitude since Ronald Reagan's Republican Administration came to power?
A. Please ask the government of Pakistan this question. They have repeatedly maintained that Pakistan would never serve as a conduit for weapons meant for the Mujahideen, Where, then, is the passage through which arms can be supplied to us7 Believe me, we only use arms captured from the Russians in battle
We have guns, tanks, armoured personnel-carriers and a host of other weapons. Recently (smiles), we have even brought you two helicopters of the type Vezirov (the Soviet Ambassador to Pakistan) has promised to supply Pakistan if it was willing to improve ties. As long as the Russians are present in Afghanistan and we continue to capture weapons in battle, I assure you we will need weapons from no one else. Admittedly, some countries help Pakistan with the refugees. But this is humanitarian aid and that too through the government of Pakistan.
Q. But western newsmen who have visited Kabul have reported that hot flares, which serve a decoy for heat-seeking-missiles, are parachuted in the vicinity of the airport during take-off and landing of aircraft. Are you saying that you have captured surface-to-air missiles in battle?
A (Smiles) Please ask the Russians why are they so scared. I can say no more.
Q. Would you like to comment on reports that some of the refugees have begun to make the long trek horre. following the ceasefire?
A. Our rally proved the determination and the will of the refugees. It is true that they were beginning to feel the time to return home was drawing nearer. But this was not because they thought the Russians would withdraw unilaterally or that they were preace-loving people, but, because the positive situation arising out of our jihad had made them hopeful, So when they heard that Najib had made a ceasefire offer, they thought that the Russians had been forced out of Afghanistan and so they started preparations to go back home. They began selling their cars, their belongings, in fact, every-
Continued on Page 27
The Mujahideen Monthly
22
Jan — Feb 1987