The Mujahideen, September, 1991

In Islam, Women have great roles to play....
Page 35 mmmmmi
POSITION OF WOMEN
TEE PREESLAMEC
ARA1BEAN
S0CEETY
Ummu Abdullah
r
v
This is a series of articles written by our sister Ummu Abdullah on Women in Islam. The first part appearing here contains a general examination of the socio-political standing of Arab community and Judaist societies prior to the messengership of Muhammad (on him be peace and blessings)...

caught in matrimon ial mesh were necessarily kept in subjugation and were treated more like harlots than human-beings” 2
The pre-Islamic society here refers to the society of the Arabs before the advent of Islam which came as a result of the Prophethood of Muhammad (PBOH). The position of women during this time then refers to the condition of women in Arab society before Islam.
Having explained the term position of women in the pre-Islamic period, we can then examine what exactly the position of women was. Actually the position of women was so m iscrable. The people of that society though t that women were evils and unwanted burden on the society. The people thought women to be sources of disgrace and humiliation in the family and to the society as well, to the extent that they were ready to kill and burry them alive. The people hated women to the proportion of taking them as toys and they were subjected to all kinds of inhuman treatments. This view of the Arabs about women is summed up by a scholar who writes thus:-
“The birth of a daughter in a family was not the occasion for rejoicing but of general gloom and despondency” 1
Women were never viewed as part of the Society. They could be used for sensual pleasure and then discarded away. The scholar further says:
“Women captured in war from the rival clan or otherwise
Women had no independent status and they were neither regarded as human beings and were not treated belter than animals. Nobody in that society ever thought of women as creatures of equal rights or as creatures endowed with any right at all, rather the women’s life were punctuated with tyranny, injustice and oppression.
The people of this dark age never thought that women had rights until the advent of Islam-when the divine laws were introduced to the people through the Holy Prophet (on him be peace and blessings). The people of that society never thought that women had right to anything than to be enslaved. The women could not even share in the property of their deceased relations including their husbands. Whenever a man died his property used to be shared among his relations and the wealth of the man was everything including his wife, that means that the woman will not only be deprived of the right to inherit but she will also be regarded as part of the property left by the husband and therefore she had to be inherited along with the property. The woman could not also object to this since there was no liberty for her to do so.
In that society, nobody ever cared to see that as injustice to women since their wish were not respected in getting married. A man could get married to any woman