Genocide of Arakan’s Muslims
Arakan, an independent Muslims kingdom of South-East Asia till 1784 AD, is now one of the 14 provinces of Burma. The area of present Arakan is approximately 16,000 square miles. It is bounded in the North-West by Bangladesh and on the North by the Chin Hills. The lofty Arakan Hills completely separate Arakan form mainland Burma in the East, thus forming a natural physiographic unit, It is bounded on the West by the Bay of Bengal. *
The total population of Arakan is approximately four million. There are two major ethnic communities in Arakan. The Rohingyas, who constitute nearly 70% of the total population are believers of Islam and the Maghs (Rakhine) who constitute 25% of the total population and profess Buddhism. The Northern part of-Arakan adjoining Muslim Bengales is over-whelming! y more than 90% of the total population in the area.
*
The term Rohingyas is derived from the word Rohingyas trace their origin to the Arab, Moors, Turks, Persians, Moghuls and Bangles and over the last 100 years have maintained their Islamic culture and identity. The Muslim traders first visited Arakan in the 7th century and established their Kingdom in 1430 AD. They ruled Arakan for nearly 350 years till they were conquered by Burmese in 1784. Later the British occupied Burma in 1824 who ruled till 1948, when Burma became an independent state. Even^since the Arakanese lost their independence to Burmese tioijimination! they have been subjected to religibus and cultural exploitation.
/ ^ / ' 1
In. April 1942, the Maghs equipped with arms;
plundered the Rohingya villages in connivance with —t
Burma independence Army and massacred nearly 100, 000 Rohingyas. In 1947, general Aung of Burma, held a conference in Pang long, where all the national groups were invited except the Rohingyas of Arakan. In the conference he gave written assurance to British government to protect and meet the rights and demands of all nationalities of Burma, but that of the Rohingyas of Arakan were not even discussed. It was in 1947 that enrollment for the first general election of Burmese constituent assembly was carried out throughout Burma. In the process the Burmese authorities deliberately excluded the Rohingyas area of Arakan. The Rohingyas did contact the British government as the election was scheduled to be held quite some time after the enrollment, but by that time the constitution of Burma had already been framed. Thus the Burmese authorities tactfully debarred the Rohingyas from becoming part of the efforts of for framing of the constitution. As a result their rights and privileges did not find > a mention in the constitution and were once again left out unguaranteed. Ever since and after the departure of B ritish, the Rohingyas .have been socially degraded, economically crippled, religiously persecuted and politically liquidated. Some (of the wrongs done to them need to be elaborated.
Social Persecution
All Rohingyas social, cultural, religious and student organizations or associations have been totally banned by the government, — Deliberate and persistent attempts have been made to impose the majority culture on the Muslims.	)
— Government sponsored media has been painting the pictures of the Muslims in such a way that their fellow countrymen look at them with contempt and hatered.
t