Two Copters Downed in Ghazni
Peshawar: Mujahideen downed two military Helicopters of the Kabul regime East of Ghazni city in Ghazni
province. According to wireless reports of the Mujahideen the Helicopters were straffing the military bases of Sielgar Front when they came under anti-aircratf fire of the Mujahideen. Both the Helicopters crashed and its pilot with the crew members were killed instantly.
Sept. 3:
protest against Kayhan International assasination threat
Teheran: Iran-based Afghan intellectuals and refugees staged a protest rally in front of the main offices of the government funded English Language newspaper “Kayhan International” in Tehran last week, to protest the publication of an editorial in the paper which had called for the' head of Afghan Mujahideen leader Gulbaddin Hekmatyar’ reports Afghan News Agency.
An informed Afghan source told newsmen that the protestors, carrying banners praising Hekmatyar and denouncing the editorial board of the paper, first tried to break through the main gate of the chief editor’s office
The Mujahideen, September , 1991
before being pushed back by Iranian Security forces. They also submitted a protest note to chief-editor of Kayhan, demanding a written apology and clarification.
The source said, next morning instead of rectifying his blunder, the editor-in-chief, adding insult to injury wrote that“wc actually did not mean the physical elimination of Hekmatyar, but we only meant his political elimination.”
This has further infuriated the Afghans and there was fear of more protest rallies against the pro-Iranian government paper.
It is to be noted that Hekmatyar has already condemned the said editorial and has termed it the work of some fanatics, “within the ruling circle of
Pa8e 12 Iranian government.”
Sept. 6:
Hekmatyar on death threat to his life by Iranian paper
Peshawar: Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, Gulbaddin Hikmatyar has said that the death threat issued to him by an Iranian newspaper was not accidentally published but it was the handiwork of elements with a sectarian outlook in Iran who wanted to please the west. He made these remarks in an interview with a group of Arab journalists who met him inside Afghanistan on Friday Sept. 6.
Hikmatyar commented thatthe Iranian government was infuriated by the failure of the tripartite Tehran conference on the Afghan issue which were not attended by Hezb-i-Islami.
They are fearful of the strength and power of Hezb-i-Islami which is capable ofcstablishing and adminiserting an Islamic government in Afghanistan. He, however, said that only time would tell the motives behind the death decree against him in Kayhan International Newspaper.
Tne leader of HI A opined that;
we are certain that the Iranian nation does not agree with	the
government’s policy	on
Afghanistan. He also alleged that certain Iranian elements were opposed to the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan and instead advocated the establishment of a coalition government that would include even Najib the head of the puppet communist regime in Kabul.