42,000 women and men arrested without warrants, 120 out of 11,000 young men imprisoned in torture cells died, 50,000 have gone underground for fear of arrest, 16,000 crossed the border into Azad Kashmir, 170 schools and hospitals destroyed, hundreds of mosques demolished, untold crops and forests burnt, and women disgraced.
Kashmiris wanted to keep their movement peaceful but especially due to the disgrace of women the peaceful struggle changed into a violent Jihad. An incident in the outskirts of Srinagar wherein the Rajput Regiment of the Indian army committed shameful crimes against the women was especially painful to the people. A journalist of the British daily newspaper, “Independent” visited that area where the attrocities happened. This brought the western press in protest. Moved by this, the British parliament appointed a committee to record human rights violations in occupied Kashmir. The committee on human rights violations in the American Congress has also verified the gruesome acts of human rights violations there. A story in “The New York Times” exposed what the Indian army has done to Kashmiri women. After reviewing the evidence, the European parliament expressed its concern over the state of affairs in Kashmir.
This year the government of Pakistan is planning to send delegations to different countries to highlight the situation and muster support for the Kashmir issue. The government is intending to raise this issue in the U.N. forum this fall.
In fact, it is the duty of every Muslim country, organization and individual to project this issue in its true perspective. The genesis of the problem, the true cause of Kashmiri
■ The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 M
Muslims, the U.N. resolution, the human rights violations and the resultant Jihad are no secret. People all over the world support a fair cause. It is our obligation to arouse world opinion and help the people understand the cause of the Kashmiri people. Qazi Hussain Ahmad, Ameer of Jamiat Islami Pakistan, headed a delegation composed of different political elements in Pakistan to such Islamic countries as Turkey, Egypt, Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait and Abu Dhabi. As this was a non-governmental delegation, reflecting the real wishes of the people, its effect was great.
After the resolutions passed by influential bodies such as the British Parliament, the American Congress, the European Parliament, the O.I.C., and the Islamic Conference in Sudan in favor of the Kashmiri people, the time has come to raise the issue in the U.N. After enforcing its resolutions against Iraq, the U.N. has a duty to enforce its resolution vis-a-vis Kashmir.
India holds that after an agreement between Pakistan and India this issue cannot be discussed on the U.N. forum. A plebiscite is what the Kahmiris are struggling for. Pakistan and India should negotiate bilaterally but only on the ‘how’ to arrange for a plebiscite.
The freedom of Kashmir is in the interest of Kashmir, India, and Pakistan alike. It is a festering wound in Pak-Indian relations. Over this issue they have fought wars. This is the problem that burdens the defence budget of each country, Pakistan and India. Through this both the economies are immensely strained. Apart from this, it constitutes an internal headache for India. They suffer both in all ways. “Live and let live” is the rule to go by.
The Indian ruling elite should not fail to understand the
Page 33 ■■■
spirit of the times. The last decade of the 20th century is a myth-shaking decade. Russia fled from Afghanistan, the Communist Empire fell apart. Eastern Europe went its own way. Even the states within Russia are nearing their independence. Nambia has gained its independence. In South Africa, Nelson Mandela has been released. Vietnam found no other way but to leave Kampuchea. Palestinians are on their way to freedom. Saddam Hussein failed to deprive the Kuwaiti people of their freedom. That is the way India should tread. “Live and let live”. The sooner they understand the better. They say India is the largest democracy. But what does the term democracy imply? Give the Kashmiris what they want. And what the Kashmiris want is freedom.
Mossad also active in Afghanistan
Reports pouring in from India say s that a Jews international office has been established in the Indian capital which belongs to "Mossad”, the Israeli secret agency. The report says the main function of this office is to recruit agents, and called information about Pakistan, occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan.
This officers located in Street No, 95 in the Indian capital. The India Today magazine had recently reported the "Mossad”, RAW and WAD (Wazarat-e-Amniyal-e-Daulal Afghanistan) had signed a security agreement four years back for cooperation betweenthe there organization on Pakistan, occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan.
Some reports say that two of the Israeli commandos who were killed or injured or had escaped from Kashmiri Mujahideen, had visited Jalalabad and Qandahar to help Kabul regime against Afghan Mujahideen, before the ir covert visit tooccupied Kashmir-
Ahmad Muaffaq Zaidan (The writer is a correspondent of Sharq al-Awst', London).