THE UN REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS IN AFGHANISTAN
The United Nations Human Rights Commission has strongly condemned the Afghani stan government for violating human rights and said that among other things it is guilty of the indiscriminate mass killing of civilians, particularly women and children.
The victim of Russians bullets.
In an interim report the Com mission's Special Rapporteui, Dr Felix Ermacora, said the government had acted with great severity against opponents or suspected opponents without any respect for human rights.
In an obvious reference to the Russain forces in Afghanistan he said the government had done this with heavy support from foreign troops.
Dr Ermacora said that the government and the foreign troops were using all the military means at their disposal against the Mujahideen and it appeared that all kinds of sophisticated weapons, in parti* cular those that had a heavy destructive and pyschological effect, were being used.
He said the force and brutality exercised by the government had now reacheJ a critical stage as the Kabul regime and the Russians attempted to end opposition in the regions in any way possible.
The escalating violence had affected human rights to a larger extent than before, he said.
"While the suppression of political opponents in the urban area has continued with the same intensity as before, although there have perhaps been fewer cases, the methods of warfare have worsened during the past months
and disregard . for human rights is more widespread. As a result, not only individuals, but whole groups of persons and tribes are endangered in their existence and in their lives because their living conditions are fundamentally affected by the kind of warfare being waged," Dr Ermacora said.
• He said that even- though the government and the Russians were bound by the Geneva Conventions covering the rules of war they were guilty of the use of anit-
personnel mines and of so-called toy bombs; the indiscriminate mass killings of civilians, particularly women and children; the growing use of heavy weapons with most destructive effects; the systematic discrimination against persons not adhering to the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan; and the refusal to recognise captured members of the Mujahideen as prisoners of wa r
The Special Rapporteur said that many witnesses had testified that
16
The Mujahideen Monthly