The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Kuwait oil at blaze, Rafsanjani searching for a "safer" ground
section of the people from others were deliberately formulated and injected to the main stream of Midle Eastern politics. Saddam Hussain received the best lectures in this respect and attended selected tutorial classes possible only for a spoilt child of the imperialists. Baghdad became the new capital of international policy of cloak-and-dagger and its regime imbibed well the norms of oppression. Imperialism seemed to have won the day and the ambition of Saddam Hussain was allowed to develop fully out of his Zionist orientation. The die appeared to have been cast and the regret of the world today deserves no pity.
Strobe Talbott wrote late to explain away American boomeranged policies in the Middle East and other places and also tried though unconvincingly to exonerate the warhawks in the White House thus...”By concentrating its fury on one miscreant, the US has sometimes overlooked or even pampered another potentially greater source of trouble in the same region...’This is infact another case of begging the issue peculiar with most official and unofficial spoke-persons of the American ruling class. He has not enunciated what criteria are to be used in
knowing who is miscreant from others. The learned writer has only explained how Saddam Hussain became an adopted son of the Zionist but failed woefully to say exactly which supreme interest governed American foreign policies. We on our part may ask that could it be :oil wealth .friendly despotic monarchies, co-operating totalitarian tyrannies, liberal democracies or the rule of law and fundamental human rights. Should American super might be a tool in protecting vested interests of a few government officials who have direc t or indirect econom ic investments to protect in the region? Or is America striving for the overall stability of the world and freedom of mankind?
Therein lies the core of the whole problem. The blunders have been repeated many times as Talbott was later to admit with courage...” The American obsession with Cuba as the Soviet cat’s-Paw in the Western Hemisphere, was one factor that led Washington to support Panama’s Manuel Noriega..” But the US is not alone in its profligate soliloquizing for ever aiding Saddam against the Ayatollah. Saudi scholars too under the pressure of authoritarian monarchy have issued press statements
calling Muslims all over the world to rise up in Jihad against the infidel B’athist! But if we are permitted to ask here again: Where were these learned scholars when Riyadh was pumping money into Baghdad to build the strongest “infidel” army in the region? Was it not the same Saddam Hussian who a decade ago was hailed as a hero of the Arab world? Did Iraqi aggression against a neighboring Muslim nation not pass away without the call of Jihad against Ba’athist oppression internally and externally? Who is therefore an infidel? Why is Saddam an infidel today and not yesterday? These questions are endless and their answers are simple. The so-called learned men are giving verdicts only to protect their own social status and the seat of authority monopolized by the ruling family rather than facing reality and delivering the trust of knowledge as demanded. These honorable scholars are of course not fooling the Muslim world but are surely in the contrary be littling themselves.
The deposed king of Kuwait too after long years of conspiracy and intrigues against a fellow Muslim country decided finally to face reality by sending a special envoy to Tehran to