uniforms. At night they were sent to the airport with their rifles. In the morning when a army truck was leaving the airport, the three musketeers’ showed themselves as Afghan army soldiers. The officers, colonel Jalaluddin, in the truck asked them what they were doing. They answered that they wanted to go to the city army base but they were afraid of the rebels (Mujahideen). The officer ordered them to get in the truck.
When the truck covered only a short distance the Mujahideen ordered the officer at a gunpoint to move for another direction. Finally he was brought with his driver, truck and about 100 shells of tank and DC-10 (122mm cannon) to Mr. Hekmatyar Over this remarkable performance Mr Hekmatyar gave each of them a pistol as a reward.
Hekmatyar had lengthy discussion with commanders and Mujahideen of these bases. On 11th Sept, we left for Shin Nari Brigade of Hezb-i-lslami near Spin Boldak via Arghastan district We drove for five hours and then stopped for launch. Finally we reached Quetta at around 9:00 p.m.
the next morning we were told that Mr. Hekmatyar would be addressing a big crowd of refugees in Quetta. Indeed the address was the first of its kind ever made by any other Afghan leaders. A huge conference was given by Mr. Hekmatyar, which Quetta ever remember with regard to Afghanistan issue
On Sept. 13th a colossal meeting took place in Panjpai Camp of refugees. The next day it was held at Gardi Jangal The third was at Jangal Pir Alizai Camp which started at 8 00 a.m. and according to the schedule it finished at 12 30 p.m. Surprisingly, Western mass media as usual fabricated the biggest lie of their coverage of the Aghan issue which said that Mr Hekmatyar was not allowed by the people to deliver his speech.
On 17 Sept. He addressed another gathering at Muslim Bagh Camp of Afghan Refugees. And his last speech was delivered at Lorlai Camp. In the end he visited all Quetta hospitals and wards with 495 victims of the Russians bombings and shellings.
We visited a total of 46 fronts of Mujahideen only in Arghandab district. Mr.
We thought perhaps that was the end of the matter. But
Mujahideen’s Commander's of Talakan in Panjwai receive Eng. Hekmatyar.
The Mujahideen Monthly
30
November 1988