.A •
Speakers at the historical
Br. Z. Muzammil
Br. A. Khenjani

3-	The foreign powers should just agree on one point; non-interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, respect for our freedom, independence, national sovereignty and right of self-determination. The Afghan problem must be solved by the Afghans themselves inside the country. If the Russians and the Americans stop interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan, if arms delivery to the country is stopped the puppet regime will fall at once. Upon the fall of the Najib’s regime and the holding of elections, the Afghan issue will be solved.
4-	The committed and Islam-loving elements should join hands and by utilizing the available resources and by better mobilization of their forces inflict a coup-de-grace on the dastardly enemy and thus put a quick end to the war. The basic strategy of the Mujahideen must include the following at this critical juncture of the history of our Jihad: intensification of the siege around the cities, cutting off the supply lines of the enemy forces, pressure on military targets like airbases and other military installations, and anti-regime movements inside the cities. The
Mujahideen must avoid large military assaults on the big cities for their quick take-over. On the one hand, such attacks victimize the innocent civilians inside the cities, and, on the other hand, such attacks require a large amount of ammunition which increases reliance on uncertain foreign aid.
5-	We must not allow henceforth that our nation is witness to a despotic and unrepresentative government nor allow a few elements to monopolize the rule while the nation remains deprived of the right of expressing an opinion about its own fate. Those who have endured the hardships of this prolonged war and have defended their strongholds under the shower of bombs have the right to form a government or have a say in its formation. We must prove to the world that Afghans will no longer accept an imposed government nor a government which is the handiwork of aliens.
6-	The government of the six parties on the basis of the following reasons is dissolved and has no right whatsoever to represent our nation or have activities inside the country:
A- This government was contingent upon holding elections within six months of its tenure and getting a vote of confidence from the elected Shura and shifting inside the country within one month. Unfortunately, it avoided holding elections and failed to shift inside the country and preferred to remain in exile in the rented offices in Peshawar.
B- The tenure of this government had ended six months ago. Unfortunately with ridiculous justifications they extended it for one year. Now they are making up other pretexts to prolong it indefinitely.
C- The authority to extend the tenure of the government only rests with a Shura which represents the whole nation. When this authority is given to a few individuals or the cabinet of the government, then no cabinet would ever like to see its tenure shortened no matter how incompetent, failing or disgusting their government is. The removal of such governments will necessitate revolts and the ground will thus be prepared for mischief.
7-	We appreciate and defend
Page 29