The great Muhjahid and honourable Islamic scholar Professor Dr. Abdullah Azzam, head of the Afghan Jihad Services Bureau and educational consultant of the Muslim World League, was martyred in a car bomb explosion planted for him at the entrance of Saba-e-Leil Mosque of Jamrud Road in Peshawar, Pakistan, on Friday, November 24, 1989, at 12:30 p.m. as he was proceeding to the mosque to lead the Friday prayer. With him was also martyred his eldest son Muhammed (23) and middle son Ibrahim (14) who were with him in the car. The three died instantly and were transferred to Pabbi village where they were buried in the same evening in the presence of a big crowd of Afghan and Arab Mujahideen in the Martyrs' Graveyard.
The sophisticated way in which this treacherous crime was carried out gives reason to believe that the incident was planned by some quarters which possess huge facilities and numerous agents and that Dr. Azzam was intended in his person. A few weeks ago a bomb was planted for him under the speaker's podium in the same mosque. It would have killed him and many other worshippers had it not been detected by the attendants two hours before the time set for the explosion. On November 24th it seems his movements were closely monitored from the time he left his house. This is evident from the fact that although he was using a different car from the one he usually takes, it was hit with accuracy by the killer who pushed the button connecting the circuit through a wire 50 meters distant from the explosion device set in the drainage ditch where the car was turning the corner onto the side street to the mosque. It is therefore concluded that some power must have been behind the killing after finding the presence of Dr. Abdullah Azzam detrimental to their nefarious designs and criminal intrigues and so decided to get rid of him in his cowardly manner.
Born in a Palestinian village, Sella Haressiyya in 1941, Abdullah Azzam completed his early education
at his native village. He graduated in theology from Damascus University in 1966 and then joined Al-Azhar University in Cairo to get his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. He joined the well-known Islamic movement operating throughout the Arab world, Al-lkhwanul Muslimoon, took part in the struggle against Zionist hegemony, and participated in the 1967 Arab-lsrael war.
After the war he emigrated from the West Bank to Jordan. At the Jordanian University in Amman, he started his professional career as a lecturer of theology. Abdullah Azzam’s difficulties increased with every passing day. He became disappointed in his profession, in the political set-up of his country, in the Palestinian leadership for their secular attitudes, and in the narrowness of his platform for addressing the Muslim Ummah. In view of this, he may have been relieved rather than grieved when, after one of his usual fights with the authorities, he was dismissed from his University position. He knew it was useless to protest or to try to reverse the decision, as it enjoyed the blessings of higher
circles. So he packed up his belongings and departed for Saudi Arabia where he hoped to fare better in his search for a suitable climate for his ideology.
In 1980 while in Saudi Arabia, Abdullah Azzam had the opportunity of meeting a delegation of Afghan Mujahideen who had come to perform Haj. He soon found himself attracted to
their circles and wanted to know more about the Afghan Jihad. When the story of the Afghan Jihad was unfolded to Abdullah Azzam, he felt that it was this cause of the Afghan people forwhich he had been searching for so long. He arranged visits to Afghanistan where his impressions about the Afghan Mujahideen were confirmed beyond oubt. He shifted to Pakistan and tarted delivering lectures at the Islamic University, Islamabad. He later decided to devote himself fully to the cause of the Afghan people, and settled in Peshawar, the capital of the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) of Pakistan.
The assassination of Dr. Abdullah Azzam was no doubt a plot against the Islamic Ummah and the
10
Mujahideen Monthly/January 199C