Mujahideen, October / November, 1991	Page 36	WmmmSm
society are good and if a society is bad the women of that society are bad.”4
The Holy Prophet did not stop here, he also enjoined the whole mankind to treat women in a gentle and kind manner.
He said this because he realized that women are the sisters, wives and mothers of the society therefore he said:
“Stick to your mother for the paradise is beneath her feet”5
Italso happened that on another occasion a man came to the Prophet (P.B.O.H) to inquire from him the person that deserves his duty fust and the Prophet (P.B.O.H) told the man to be good to his mother three times before mentioning his father.
The man asked, who has the greatest right of a good company of the child?
The Prophet answered: “Your mother”
The man said: Wbp’s next?
The Prophet replied: “Your mother”
The man asked, who’s next?
The Prophet answered: “Your mother”
The man: Who’s next?]
The Prophet (P.B.O.H) then said “Your father”6
The Prophet (P.B.O.H) also said during his last pilgrimage while he was giving his last sermon that a man should treat his wife kindly and that a man should also provide food and clothing for his wife.
Islam in realization of the dignity of women also grant them their natural rights. These rights shall be examined under the following subheadings:- Marriage, Inheritance, Right of women ontaen, Religion, Education and Politics.
_ .
RIGHTS OF WOMEN TO MARRIAGE
Marriage is the sacred union between two people that is a man and a woman. This contract has to be initiated by one of the two parties. Therefore it is the man that intitiate it except in rare cases when a woman initiates it. The question that then arises is this: Does that degrade the status of the woman or is it an insult on the personality of the women. The answer to this is that men do not ask the hands of women in marriage to degrade them. In the light of this, women are given the right to turn down or to accept man’s proposal. It is the man’s instinct to make the fust approach while it is the woman’s instinct to be a source of attraction andthis attitude is perfectly in accordance with the latter's nature of self restraint. From the time immemorial men have been approaching women with their common proposal and requesting conjugality from them. In fact this has been the greatest weapon in safeguarding the prestige and honour of women. Men do notapproach women because they are superior neither are the women taken as inferior sex to them hence women are being loved. Islam stipulates the custom of asking a woman’s hand in marriage to preserve their honour and prestige. Even when a woman asks for a man’s hand in marriage — though in rare cases — it does not tamper with her honour and prestige.
Among the rights given to woman in marriage include the right to reject any groom who is not her choice irrespective of her parent’s consent. A woman has the right to choose her husband whether she is a widow or a divorcee even if the parents do not give their consent. Islam forbids imposed marriage and it is also against compulsion in marriage.
When the proposal is made and acceptance is given, dower then comes in. Islam gives women the right to take from thei{ suitors a token amount known as (Maher) dower. This dower is given by the groom in order to preserve the economic rights of the wife after marriage and to strengthen her financial position. It also serves as obstacle to the dissolution of the marriage for frivolous reasons. The money should be given to women as free gift. Islam also gives the women the right to take it without refunding it e>#n if the two parties are to part ways later on.
Islam also stipulates that women should not be treated with harshness in order to take away part of the money given to them. In the ' light of this, the Holy'Qur’an says:
“I^or should ye treat them with harshness so that ye may take away part of the dower given them”7
The following verse also declares thus:
“Even if ye have given the latter a whole treasure for dower take riot the least bit of it back..”8
)
In the light of the above verses, it is therefore unlawful for men to take back what they have given to women as dower.