The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 mmmmMmmtMtimmS; Pa8e 21
Accredition of Man
t/
......
\J^asin
Islam maintains that humanity has a special role to play on the globe and reality has confirmed that man is falling short of this accredition. The role man has to play is J dimensional - to Allah, to mankind and to himself. The holy Qur’an and the prophetic Sunnah contain many passages enunciating these duties, Take this as a specimen. Allah the most High declares:-
J
“Say, come and I will relate to you what \ your Lord has made prohibited on you (as duties). That you should associate nothing with Him But to your parents (show) goodness. Kill not Your ; children out of poverty.
1
"We shall provide for you and them (too). And advance not towards indecency — overtly 'or covertly—Nor kill a soul sanctified by Allah, except for a just cause.
/
"These (obligations), He mandated on ,you to be sensible. Likewise go not near belongings of the orphan, except with that which ' is better (in motives) until he attains full puberty. And perform your measurements and scaling with fairness none has been burdened (with / obligations)...
4
"Save what he can bear. And whenever ]you testify, be just even if against close relatives Similarly, the convenient of Allah (you must) fulfil. Those (things) He obliged on you to be * mindful. And this is indeed my path straight forward then follow hot.crooked roads that will surely divide you away from my path. Those - (instructions) He dcrees on you for your piety”.‘ ^(Al-An’am.6: 151-153).
/ / /
The characteristic of the path of Allah is straight forwardness, and the peculiarity in the J ways of men is waywardness. The primordial J universal unity of mankind, is of course larger than the parochial artificial boundaries of nations.
Humanity has a common origin and / should be allowed to live once again as a com- / posite entity. The surest way towards universal unity, is the proclaimed path of Revealed Monotheism. The best shield against continental schism, is the adoption of fundamental Islamic message.
/
But the truth today has no platform, and \ the believers in-Allah have no say. Islam itself is oppressed so long as humanity is denied its blessings. The so called believers who only profess faith but work not accordingly are to be blamed for this because they are refusing to stand up to global challenges.
/
Let mankind have access to the teaching of Islam and see if the world will not succumb to its message. We are today on a globe without Islam and speaking right now of Islam without a globe.
/
/
What remains is not globalizing Islam, for this has already been settled by Islam itself - - but, how best to Islamize the globe. That is J today a near possibility in the faces of hostile garrisons of infidelity but only if we accompany faith with actions. This is the more reason why we must be conscious of our duties. The Glorious passage above is comprehensive and its like are numerous in the holy text. The message remains the same, that man has three duties in life — to his Glorious Lord, to his hostile men and to his
heedless self.

✓