Mohammad Sadiq Agha, 1 4, lost his both legs
'
Soviet goals seek to encircle China, control the Gulf oilfields and even threaten India. We are there fore surprised at the indifference of the international community towards the Soviet menance casting shadows on world peace. Do the peace-loving nations not realize that the Soviet empire has stretched to the extreme end of the Far East and established bases for aggression and further expansion in Afghanistan fairly close to the Indian Ocean ?
We are particularly distressed to note that some governments are taking sides with the Soviet Union in this criminal war contrary to the expressed wishes of their respective peoples. Their attempts to try to justify and condohe the Soviet' invasion of Afghanistan, are most regrettable.
Irrespective of the- Soviet intentions in invading Afghanistan and
the international reaction and response to it, we hereby affirm our resolve not to lay down our arms until we achieve liberation .of our homeland and the expulsion of all foreign forces from Afghanistan. Let us remind the Soviet aggressors and their faceless agents that the only solution to the Afghanistan issue lies ip total, unconditional and'immediate withdrawal of the invading forces from Afghanistan. We have full faith in the righteousness of our cause and arc determined to continue this just struggle until the complete realization of our objectives. We are confident that our country will once again stand as a proud, free and independent state in the community of nations. (Inshallah God Willing).
The Soviets must know that permanent bccupation of Afghanistan would be impossible for
them and is a futile effort. Such Soviet dreams are clearly misplaced and would confront them with further frustration. No doubt our people are poor and far inferior in firepower. But they are equipped
with an invincible faith in God Almighty and belief in the here after. The ensuing moral strength of our people has enabled them to courageously withstand the might of the Soviet power and not to surrender to Soviet bondage. Our people suffer untold grief and hardships without despair. They prefer honourable death over Soviet subjugation. The seven years of this traumatic war are an eloquent testimony to the glorious, historic and unremitting resistance offered by our great people to the ugly forces of aggression.
The Soviets grossly underestimated the will and faith of our nation. They mistakenly thought that the Red Army would be able to occupy and subdue Afghanistan in a few days - like Czechoslovakia. The Soviets have not succeeded in establishing control over even 10 percent of the Afghan soil after 70 months of this costly war. They have not been able to secure large cities, major military cantonments and main highways from attacks by the Mujahideen. Their huge military convoys, though heavily armed, cannot move without strong air cover because of the fear of Mujahideen. Their terruous control of even 10 percent of our sacred territory has cost the Russian invaders 50 000 lives and the loss of 7,500 tanks and APCs and 480 aircraft and helicopters. The landscape of Afghanistan is littered with the wreckage of Soviet planes, * helicopters, tanks, APCs and military vehicles. Afghanistan today is the biggest scrapyard of military hardware in the world.
It is high time that those sitting in the Kremlin ponder the ultimate
. ( The Mujahideen Monthly
i
13