some Afghan refugees was-Would you like to comment?
A. Yes, this propaganda has proved another thing to me, and that is that a communist is someone who doesn't believe in anything, Not in rights, not in truth. Anything that serves his purpose is legal and moral and is acceptable to him. I don't know how they have the gall to tell such lies and I don't know how and why the people believe them. A strictly local problem in which not a single Afghan was involved, was given a certain anti-refugee twist. Either purposely or inadvertently some people in the administation also made this mistake by removing the refugees from Sohrab Goth. If it was at all necessary to remove them it should have been done
either before or after the trouble and pot during it. By doing this they created an impression that the refugees were also involved.
If believe that some people have done this on purpose. I don't accuse the administration outright, but there are pro-Russian elements everywhere who take advantage of each opportunity that presents itself. But later, the government announced that the Afghans were Innocent and not a single round of ammunition or a single gram of heroin was recovered from them. I don't see how these people can be so cruel and heartless. Rather than ask the Russians to withdraw from Afghanistan, they want the refugees removed from Pakistan, their mud houses destroyed so that they are unable to find even a tent. These
are the same Afghan refugees whose houses were bombarded and their relatives killed by the Russians. They came to Pakistan thinking they were Muslims and would find shelter here. Bu the pro-Russian element here, the communists, who claim to be fighting for liberation, independence and the rights of the oppressed (in Pakistan), want to push the refugees out of Pakistan instead of speaking out for them The refugees are falsely accused of crimes they have not committed. These people want to prepare the ground for serious misunderstanding and clashes between the Afghans and the locals so that the refugees are thrown out I repeat that communists will tell lies and unscrupulously pursue their objectives, They have no shame
the base next morning along with the Russians, is reported to have said that 350 Russians were either killed or wounded, and 40 tanks, 13 APC, 46 oil tankers, 33 vehicles, four tank carriers, three armoured ammunition carriers, two Zeaguak-equipped vehicles and one multi-berrals rocket launcher (MB-13) were reduced to wreckage.
The smoke, the source said, kept seeping out of the wreckage for the next day, and the tremendous heat changed the cold atmosphere of the Russian base into a hot summer of lower plateau.
Besides, the police office building and the Jabul&raj security headquarters were also destroyed in the same operation.
The very next day the Russians retaliated and bombed the nearby villages and the Mujahideen's strongholds. Within short time scores of houses, which had already been vacated by people at night, were razed to ground. People had taken refuge in the underground caves. However, one Mujahid was martyred in the Soviet bombarment.
Russians’ second biggest base set ablaze
By:
Gulzar Mashkoor
The Mujahideen, being true to their tradition, pounced upon the biggest army headquarters in the Parwan province, based in Qalai Surkh, three kilometres to the northwest of Jabulseraj, in a dare-devil fashion, destroying about 140 tanks, APC, trucks, tank carriers, government buildings and ammunition depots and killing or wounding about 350 Russians.
This took place on the eventful night of 16th January; when the Mujahideen, in response to Kabul’s Machfavelliori-type unitalateral ceasefire, stormed the base. Led by Engineer Tariq of Shafaq Front of Jabulseraj, they used about 200 surface-to-surface rockets, 150 shells of 75mm and 82mm cannons, martors, rocket-propelled grenades (RPG-7) and heavy machineguns.
Indeed, Tariq had been planning to attack on 3rd January, when Najib announced that the unilateral ceasefire would be implemented from 15th January. The base was
attacked from all sides and the Russians responded for a short time, but they lost their morale when the rockets hit the oil tankers. The tankers went off one after another and flames were leaping about 150 metres high, ingulfing a vast area.
The situation worsened when the rockets crashed against the lined-up tanks, APC, army vehicles, and arms and ammunition depots. At the same time one of the Mujahideen group struck at the government offices at Jabulseraj to delink the base from the town.
As many as 46 oil tankers burst into fire and the whole park took fire. Thing went out of control. The Russian rescue groups rushed from the Bagram airbase and Charikar, capital of Parwan, to help out their man. They air-lefted the soldiers and the casuali-ties to Miana Guazar and Qalai Sahara villages and after the dawn they took them to Jabulseraj town.
A reliable source, who visited
The Mujahideen Monthly
28
Jan - Feb 1987