Bv Stir Gul Speen
The loss and reinformcement of Red Army
The wreckage of helicopter at Jahadwal Brigade.
After World War II the Russian expansionism has met the toughest resistance in Afghanistan. Indeed, none would have expected it. It was the miscalculation of the Kremlin that 80,000 Red troops, aided by
100,000	Afghan soldiers, would be able to grapple with the Islamic resistance and would settle things in Afghanistan in a preplanned way.
The Russians, were believed to be the masters of guerilla warfare but the Afghan Mujahideen proved it otherwise in the battlefield. The Russian Brigadiers. Generals, and Marshals, who displayed their grit in the invasion of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, could do no miracles, met their fate at the hands of unbowing Afghans. Many of them even lost their previous positions and good number of them were sacked for losing the battles against the freedom fighters. Thousands of them paid the price of their lives for their audacity, and almost equal number of them took bullet-mark to Russians.
Peace and cohesion marked Afghanistan as an independent country known for its non-aligned status. Yet Britain had shown it in the Soviet orbit. This is one of the reasons that the free world stayed away from the Afghan scene to avoid direct confrontation with Moscow. As a result the Afghans were left alone in the arena to come to grip with a Superpower. Yet the same Power has been dismayed to realize the Afghanistan is a hard nut to crack and it will be no longer possible to retain hold over it The Kremlin has tacitly hinted at its dilemma in different world fora-
Needless to say that material weapons cannot help in winning a war.
RED TROOPS
Here we look into the yearwise record of the Red Army in Afghanistan provided by the underground members of different Mujahideen groups in Kabul as well as other provinces. The report particularly speaks of Russian casualties and their reinforcement.
In 1980 Russian force No. 40 was consisted of Combined Arms Army (CAA), Motorised Rifle Division (BRD), Airborne Division (AD), Motorised Rifle Brigades/ Regiments (MRB/R). The fight spreaded throughout the country and the Russians casualties had reached around 15,000 troops by December 1980. Since more infantry forces were -involved in the
fighting, the casualties marked rose higher.
In 1981 the Russians, besides filling the gap of 15,000 men, brought additional 30,000 troops comprising Air Assault Brigades/ Regiments (AAB/R), Attack Helicopter Regiments (AHR), Transport Helicopter Regiments (THR). The total strength of the Red Army mounted to 110,000 men. The Russian casualties fell down to
12.000	by the end of 1981. The Reason was that they got familiar with the region and also used armoured and artillery units against the Mujahideen and very often sent their infantry units into the frontline of their offensives.
In 1982, the Kremlin sent extra
20.000	troops plus 12,000 soldiers for filling the 1981 casualties. The Red Army Supreme Command sent most of their infantry forces back
The Mujahideen Monthly
13
Jan — Feb 1987