The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991
Page 17
this regard. No agreement in this regard between Washington and Moscow will have any legitimacy. Similarly, any other Russo-American agreements on Afghanistan will not be binding on the Mujahideen since none of them represents the Afghan nation in such talks.
Would that not make it difficult for the Mujahideen if USA cuts off military aid?
We would be very happy if the USA stops interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. We expect just the same from Moscow.
But I know you receive a lot of aid. If thatis stopped where would you acquire the arms from?
We will get our arms from you-All our *71ns are of Russian make.
What about Stingers?
We have no Stingers. We have only been using weapons which bear USSR markings! You go and see for yourself if all those tanks are Russian or American? Our Mujahideen areall armed with Kalashinkovs, Kalakovs and other types 6Jf Russian weapons.
•
Would it not be easier for you to deal with Yeltsin rather than Gorbachev?
I believe all the changes in Sovietattitude towards Afghanistan have been inspired by Mr. Yeltsin. He was in favour of arms cut-off to the regime for a long time. I remember when his foreign minister once called Najib the Berya (chief of KGB in Stalin’s time) the same nickname was given to Najib by Krutchkov, the head of Gorbachev’s KGB. Anyway, if Mr. Yeltsin or anybody else wants to see Afghanistan in peace, they must order the stoppage of all kinds of aid to the rejected regime of Najib.
Y ■ j
What changes do you see in the policies of Gorbachev and Yeltsin. Are thejur politics different from each other?
Yes, their policies are different and there are many reasons for that but in my view the main reason is that Gorbachev has been surrounded by the mostconservativeelementsof the KGB, army and the communist party. Yeltsin has not grown up in a similar environment This has put him in a good stead to take action for the solution of the Afghan problem.
A Mujahideen delegation is about to visit Moscow. Why are you against this visit?
This has been consistendy an important part of our policy that the Mujahideen should talk to the Russians as the second direct party to the Afghan problem. In line with this policy, we have, several times, held direct talks v with them. We have been fiercely against Russo-American talks on Afghanistan as none of them represents the Afghan masses.
We want direct dialogue with Moscow but we want it to come out sincerely for talks with the Mujahideen. Moscow may solve her problem with Washington by talking to the Americans but their (Moscow’s) problems with the Afghan people remain. Since the Russians are giving no impression of their sincerity in these talks, we wouldbe absent ourselves from the firststage. We will wait and see if the Soviets come around and change their present attitude. We will participate in the next rounds, if any. We believe in substantive talks and will never take pai*in a PR dialogue.
What do you mean by ‘sincerity*?
You know the Sovietare talking to Washington on substantive matters while we think the solid and durable peace can only be achieved by talking to the Mujahideen. The Soviets must realise that Mujahideen are ncc the Contras.
What do you expect from the Moscow talks?
j
Nothing at all. If we were to expect any thing I would have sent my ---------------?--------------------
representative to Moscow, at least We believe that the Russians, by inviting the Mujahideen to Moscow at this time, just want to appease the Soviet nation that after all the government in Moscow is concerned about its POWs on whom they would try to focus during the talks in Moscow. The issue of POWs in our view is a very small one compared to the other taming issues still unresolved. This is the reason why we suspect that the Russians are not sincere to find a lasting solution to the problems confronting our two nations. The Soviet are unrealistically pressing for the release of their 311 POWs whom they declared MIA but we have about 35, 000 such Afghans about whom no one knows whether they have been killed or being kept in prison in Kabul or Siberia.
How many Soviet POWs does yourparty hold?
A good number of them.
When will you release them?
They are our guests. We do not intend to keep them for good. This matter in fact depends on the attitude of the Soviet government The sooner they solve the problem, the sooner will the boys go home. The Soviets must stop all assistance to the Kabul regime and stop the bloodshed. The key to peace lies with them. Without this they should never ask for the release of the POWs.
Do you look after them well?
I intended to show one of them to you now to prove that we look after them well. But due to shortage of time we could not do so.
Oh, God. Is none of them here?
Not here, no.
%
As I know some of them are still fighting along with your forces against the Kabul regime.
Yes, many of them. They have become very skillful Mujahideen. I will