By Prof. Aminullah
SU-25
background
Prototype;, of wnar was clearly a new subsonic attack aircraft were displayed in Ramenskove test centre, near Moscow, in 1977, and the type was allotted the temporary designation of RAM.J. Early illustrations were highly inaccurate and may have even representatted an alternative prototype aimed at the same requirements.
The Sukhoi design believed to have carried designation T—58, was selected for further development and according to normal Soviet practice, 30—40 pre-series aircraft were built in 1980 1981. The Sukhoi design believed to have carried designation SU-25 was first reported in the course of 1981, and the type was given the NATO codename Frogfoot.
Early in 1982, about a dozen of the product*on aircraft were deployed at Shindand, Farah Province and used in action against the Mujahideen. These aircraft will probably be indetified as Frogfoot A by NATO.
Early this'year the production SU-25 — likely to be known as Frogfoot B — appeared first in Afghanistan and then in service with the Czecgiskivaj Air Force It is also reported to be in service with Soivet units in Bulgharia and the southern USSR. It has not yet been observed in service with Soviet units in East Germany.
SUKHOI SU 25 Frogfoot
Earlyier this year, clear photo-
graphs of the production-type, Sukhoi SU-25 Frogfoot strike aircraft were released by the Czech slovak Air Force. SU-25 is an equivalent of the USAF/Fair-child A-10.
The most important point to make is that the SU—25 and A—10 share some basic design priorities which distinguish them from other combat aircraft, but that in other respects they are quite different. They both address the same problem of tractical strike operations, where the fast jets, typically a fighter, a modified fighter, carry ing bomb and fuel tanks, is difficult to use effectively against mobile or imprecisely located targets and their effectiveness is further limited by weather and terrain.
Although the fast jet can manoeuvre at high airspeeds the actual radius of its turn is large. Over rolling country in overcast condition, the fast jet is often unable to manoeuvre in the available airspace while maintaining visual contact with the target. This is particularly true of the older designs like MIG 27 and SU-27 Both the A-10 and the SU-25 have long wingspans, enabling them to
manoeuvre, at moderate speeds in a small radius than a more highly loaded fighter.
In its basic configuration the SU—25 resembles the Northro YA—9. Like the YA-0, the SU-25 has a short, simple main landing gear and no ventral weapon stations. Like both A—X contenders, the SU—25 has a split wintip speedbrakes. Speedbreakes of this kind have a number of advantages: they are effective, have no effect on trim and cannot effect the stabilizer or rudder. SU—25 is designed for good pilot visibility-while mirror must suffice for the rear quadrant, the high seating position and raised cockpit give a good outlook to the sides, over wings and down over the nose.
The SU—25, however, is smaller and much faster than the A—10. Its engines are from the opposite end of the design spectrum, its wings are more highly loaded and its range is much shorter. At the root of these differences is the fact that the SU—25 has been designed and developed in the knowledge that the helicopter would be the primary means of providing offensive and defensive close support in the immediate
Jan - Feb 1987
The Mujahideen Monthly