On Jan 15 a helicopter was shot down near the Ghazni airport. PERWAN:
On Jan 22 a jet was shot down in Cbarkar, provincial center. QUNDUZ:
A jet was shot down in the 3rd week of January.
QANDHAR:
On Jan 15 two helicopters were shot down near Qandahar City.
On Jan 15 three jets were hit and were destroyed at Qandahar Airport.
On Jan 20 a helicopter was shot down near the city, another one was shot down in Kajaki.
On Jan 22 a MIG 17 and a MIG 21 were shot down in Dar-wanda.
On Jan 23 a helicopter was shot near Qandahar City. HELMAND:
On Jan 24 a jet was shot down. LAGHMAN:
On Jan 27 a jet was shot down in the Turnau mountain.
JOZJAN:
On Jan 25 a MIG 17 was shot down close to Jozjan City. NINGARHAR PROVINCE:
The Mujahideen unitedly attac-ed the Goshta battalion on Jan 21st killing five militiamen and wounding 10 soldiers. And they returned safely.
WARDAK PROVINCE:
The HIA Mujahideen attacked government posts in Maidan Shar, capital of Wardak province on Jan 11, As a result 25 soldiers were killed and many others wounded, while a number of Khad was captured and government buildings were damaged too. One Mujahid was martyred and 10 others were injured in the offensive.
SMANGAN PROVINCE:
The HIA Mujahideen led by Qazi Atef, attacked militia posts in Dasht-
i-Farma on Jan 16. As a result several militiamen were killed, and two were arrested. The Mujahideen returned safely to their headquarters.
BALKH PROVINCE:
The Mujahideen jointly attacked seven army posts in the Chemtal district on Dec 23 last killing 10 soldiers and destroying the posts. The soldiers fled to the district headquarters, and the Mujahideen seized two Klashnikovs. In this joint operation one Mujahid was martyred.
BAGHLAN PROVINCE
The HIA Mujahideen led by Engineer Saleem attacked the Deh-salah, Arzangan and Kharpushta posts on Jan 2. As a result 50 Klashnikovs, 12 Carabine rifles one PK heavy machinegun, 100 army uniforms, 200 blankets, 20 boxes of bullets and one wireless set were captured by them while they returned safely.
KABUL PROVINCE:
In the first week of Jan. the HIA urban guerillas in a daytime raid fired two 107mm rockets on the building of Soviet Cultural House, located on Dehmazang-Durulaman road, seven kilometers to the south-west of the Presidential Palace. The rockets were fired when an important meeting was going on in the building. The report says that the building was badly damaged an$ people inside the building were mostly injured or killed.
On December 26 the Mujahideen HIA shot down a transport plane which was on its way to Khost, the second important town of Paktia. The plane fell down in the Charas-yab region 25 kilometres to the south of the city centre.
On December 27 a reconnaissance TU plane was heading toward Kabul. The Mujahideen of HIA shot down the aircraft when
she was hovering over the sky of Khoshi of Logar for spying on Mujahideen. The plane fell down in Khoshi. The crew were killed when the plane crushed
Around 3:00 p.m. two gunship helicopters came to search for the wreckage of the plane at Khoshi area. The Mujahideen shot down the helicopter with RPG-7 when it came down to the wreckage of the plane. The helicopter took off and tried to land in a safe place. Later the helicopter went out of the control and fell down in Dobandi, Azro district of Logar province. The crew were killed.
The enemy launched a serious attackes on Qata Beland, Turkman, Qalander Khail, Tokhchi, Chaikal, Mohammad Zaee, Qalai Bayseed. Sofeyan and Doulet Shahe villages of Parwan between Bagram and Dosaraka from Dec. 13 till 26. The Mujahideen repulsed the attacks and raided tbe Bagram airbase twice and also Senjed Darah, and inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. Nine aircraft were destroyed at the Bagram airbase. 12 tanks, and 19 army trucks were destroyed and their occupants were either killed or wounded. In addition to that, about 200 Soviet-Afghan troops were either killed or wounded. The residential block of the Russians in Senhjed Drah and the workshop of the aircraft at the Bagram airbase were partly damaged. Two families of Russian and Afghan army officers were killed. On the Mujahideen side 25 were martyred and 15 wounded.
On Dec. 27th .38 Russians were killed. 4 tanks dhd 6 army trucks destroyed in Qalai Surkh. In the same attack Russians military traffic directorate of the Qalai Surkh army base was destroyed.
Another report indicates that due to the enemy shelling on Deh Baba Ali in Kapisa on Dec. 27th 30 innocent civilians were killed and wounded.
The Mujahideen Monthly
43
Jan - Feb 1987