The Mujahideen, October I November, 1991
ISLAMIC PARTY USSR
Dr. Ahamd Qadihi, Emir of Nahdha Islamic party, (Soviet Union) sent a message to all Muslims of the world recently. His speech was in Arabic rendered into English by one of our staff writers and presented to our own readers by Yasin Murtadah
Praise be lo Allah, the Lord of the worlds, peace and Blessings upon the Messenger Muhammad and hiscompanions. To everybody who is a member of the international Islamic community, to every body who shares the tenets and message of the international Islam. To all, we say peace be upon you. These passages are meant for you. They are essence of a true call. Which position are we from the sayings of the Messenger, peace be upon him ? Who says. “He who cares not for the affairs of the Muslims is not one of them”?
“The example of the believers in their love, mercy and co-operation to each other is like the similtude a unit body. If one organ of it complains, the whole body partakes full day and night with fever”. The prophetof Allah may peace and blessings be upon him has indeed said the truth.
Every one of you knows what the situation is in USSR and how much they hate religion and fight it, especially Islam. They have made every, effort to destroy every thing that had relation with religion. Although they killed our scholars, burnt the Qur’an and other religious books and destroyed the mosques, but they could not change the Muslims.
Going into the details about what the Communist Party had done, is a long story, but what we want to mention is that the same policy is continuing. It was the reason behind the fighting between Qerqizia and Ozbek nations at LoSh, between Armenian and Azerbaijan, and also at Baku where thousands were killed. They used to cause fighting between a Muslim and non Muslim nation, while supporting the non-Muslims. They gave them modem weapons while Muslimscannotgcta simple hunting gun. We should not trust them, they do not care if all Muslims are-killed even if they give promises and guarantees but the point is that they never fulfil any agreement when it is related to.Muslims.
/ » /
Inspi'leof all the tremendous efforts of the communist party to force the Muslims to change their religion to
k
communism, they could not reach their goals. Allah by his mercy had kept our religion alive in our hearts. You will find nowadays intellectuals who believe that our religion is a powerful, active way of life. Islam deals with all affairs on earth: religion, state, economy, law, politics, science, obedience,and other aspects of life. They also understand that Islam regulates the life of the human being and guides it to the happiness of individuals and the society. Praise be to Allah, that has opened our eyes and our hearts to share the same goals
USSR: a land of plenty and greatness trying to rise again after centuries of denial and plunder