The Mujahideen , ApriUMay, 1990
THE EAST-WEST COOPERATION A DANGER FOR ISLAMIC WORLD
The Americans and the Russians are united against Islam, and in Afghanistan they have shown that, concerning their attitude toward Afghan Muslims, they are only two sides of the same coin.
The main interest of America in Afghanistan was to stop Communist expansion, especially when it was perceived as threatening her interests in the oil trade in the Gulf.
The U.S. had no intention of facing Communism on an ideological front. It was the Mujahideen alone who through their strong and unshakable faith in Islam were able to repulse the determined and well-equipped Communist forces.
No other power on earth had previously been able to face this challenge. From 1919 to 1989, for seventy years. Communist expansion had not been arrested until it was faced with the Afghans’ faith in Islam. Clearly, the Afghans stopped Communism, not because of superior technology or superior war equipment (the Europeans, before them, had modem material yet fell behind the Iron Curtain), but because of their strong faith in their Islamic ideology.
However, as soon as the American objective was achieved in Afghanistan, i.e. arresting Communist expansion toward the Gulf, they made it clear that they did not want an Islamic government in Kabul due to their bitter experience in Iran. At the same time American opposition to Communism diminished as Gorbachev adopted policies of “Perestroika” and “Glasnost”. So, the U.S joined with the Russians to form a single front against so-called “Islamic
fundamentalism” and accelerated their propaganda campaign against a government of the Afghans’ choice.
After theRussian" wi thdra wal ” the Western media began to belittle the Afghan Mujahideen and their victory. The battle of Jalalabad was depicted as their defeat, and Najib’s position was made to appear strong and stable in Afghanistan. The West exploited the
differences in the seven parties of the Afghan Mujahideen based in Pakistan to make it appear to the world that the Mujahideen woe weak both politically as well as on the battlefield. Moreover they started to work for the establishment of a so-called "broad-based” government which would include both Zahir Khan and the PDPA. This combination was acceptable to both America and Russia because this was the only formula which could deprive the . Mujahideen from forming a true Islamic government in Afghanistan
However, anyone who believes that the Afghan Mujahideen who have made great sacrifices for Islam would consent to anything less than an Islamic government are mistaken. The Mujahideen may have different views
on certain issues but they are united as far as the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Although Gorbachev has admitted the failure of Communism in Eastern Europe and has allowed a multiparty system in the Communist Russia herself, the Russians are using a double standard when it comes to the occupied Muslim “republics” and Afghanistan.
The Red Army and its weapons are “preserving” the Communist party rule at the expense of Muslim lives in Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan as well as in Afghanistan.
It can therefore be easily understood that the declared enemy of Communism is now Islam, not Capitalism or the West. Both Capitalism and Communism are linked with one origin which is materialism, both systems refuse to allow religious interference in state affairs and insist on a secular government. Religion is considered a private affair of man and has no concern with the affairs of state. In Islam, on the other hand, religion is given importance in all aspects of life, including the affairs of the state.
Muslims should be alert to the serious challenge they are confronting from the united front of Communism and the West against Islam. Muslims around the world should unite to support the Mujahideen who willingly would sacrifice their lives for the principles of Islam, for the freedom to live according to their beliefs, and to have an Islamic state in Afghanistan.
Condensed from an article by Z. A. Suleri by Imdadullah
Page 25