Mujahideen preparation for attack on a Russian army base.
for senior army officers).
The coup involved division 15, a tank division, division 4, also a tank division, and the Directorate of Reconnaissance of the Ministry of Defence. They planned to attack the Central Committee and Revolutionary Council headquarters as well as Kabul Radio. After winning control they were going to oust President Babrak Karmal, but still maintain a Communist style government.
in the past the coups against Zahir Shah, Mohammad Daoud, Taraki and Amin have all been launched by the Russians with the help of division 15 and division 4.
The Russian advisors to Division 15. division 4 and the Directorate of Reconnaissance supported and guided the coup but it is not known what has happened to them.
Details of the planned coup were leaked by Khalil's wife, who unbeknown to him, was a KGB agent.
The planned coup was supported by one wing of the Kremlin but information about it was passed on to an opposing wing. According to one of the Directors of Army Intelligence (Khad-i-Nizami) the Red Army Supreme Commander in Afghanistan was among those Kremlinites supporting General Khalil's coup. Soon after the failure of the coup Moscow ordered the Supreme Commander to return home.
It is believed that General Khalil had a good reputation and record with his supporters in Moscow. He did higher military training in the United States and his wife was also the daughter of a member of Moscow's Central Committee. She is believed to have advised either her superiors in the KGB or her father of Khalil's plans.
General Khalil and his collea-
gues had hoped that after seizing power, by a surprise assassination of members of Afghanistan's Central Committee, Politburo, Revolutionary Council and a few ministers, they would win support of the Gentral Committee in Moscow through Khalil's father-in-law.
The planned coup resulted in fundamental changes in the Politburo, Revolutionary Council, Central Committee, cabinet and other important posts, with more Parachmis being promoted to influential positions and many Khal-qis being dismissed.
Several of the key changes were announced by Kabul Radio on November 21 but the radio made no mention of the events leading up to the re-shuffle.
The changes included the appointment of Imamudin Amin as Deputy Prime IV, :rter and Dr Najib as Secretary General of the Party. Yaqoobi was made head of Khad, the Afghan secret police (later Khad was made a ministry, so Yaqoobi is now Minister for Intelligence).
Dastgir Pangshiri was dismissed from the Politburo and Guldad was dismissed from the Secretariat of the Ministerial board.
A reliable source said that the remaining senior officers of the Khalq faction who have kept their jobs, have done so only because of
strong support in the Kremlin It is widely understood that Kremlin is now divided in its support for the PDPA and some Russian leaders back the Parcham faction, while other prefer the Khalq group.
In another development the Russians tried to press into service retired army officers and experienced civilians to fill the gaps created by the arrests. The Kremlin has also introduced new faces faithful to Moscow in the Kabul administrative board and recently the Kabul government announced changes in the central committee as well in the government. The Russians are trying to prove the endorsing of 79 people in the government circle meant that the
support	for	Karmal	is inc-
creasing. Now	the	Russians	plan to
give the appearance that the Kabul regime is not a Communist government but a nationalist administra-ation They have also decided how to get rid of Babrak karmal and replace him with a government which could be a mix of Communists and other secular figures.
According to Noor Mohammad Noor, a member of Politburo, the leaders of the Kabul regime do not have any sort of power or freedom; whatever is done inside the country is done by the Russian
12
The Mujahideen Monthly