Don ’tyou think that the war must now come to an end and reconciliation start?
We believe that we need peace more than anybody else. A proverb in our language says that the place feels the warmth of heat upon which the fire is burning. We are fighting to extinguish the flames of a war which has been lit and fanned by your country. We arc fighting to bring peace. A peace which is just, honourable and durable.
You know the war in Afghanistan had two basic reasons: one was the Red Army and the second was an imposed regime which, in our view and in the eyes of the outer world, was the extension of the occupation forces. One cause is gone while the other remains in full force. In such circumstances, we have no option but to fight and that is why the war has been intensified. It is ranging around Kabul, Jalalabad, Gardez, Laghman, Logar, Qandahar, Maidan and Ghazni. The Kabul regime is very weak. It is still standing on Soviet crutches and without them it will fall very soon.
t
Do you think you can capture Kabul by force? If so, when?
We believe the Kabul regime
will fall any moment. Because on the one hand well-organised and coordinated attacks have been mounted against it and on the other it is suffering from internal rifts and contradictions coupled with miserablecconomicconditions. All these factors put together will bring the regime to its knees.
Which battles have you personally participated in and where?
I have taken part in many battles from Kunar valley to the deserts of Qa'ndhar, Moreover, I have taken part in battles in Nangarhar, laghman, Paktia, Logar, Maidan and Parwan. I have been going to these areas during even the bloodiest,of fighting. In each of these provinces, most of which are located around Kabul, two major Soviet offensive used to take place every year involving 2 divisions of troops. The result was devastation and ruin. I will never be able to live down those memories.
What changes ha veyou observed in the So viet policy towards Afghanistan after Gorbachev took over and particularly after the failed coup in USSR?
Soon after Gorbachev’s takeover, we attached a lot of hopes to changes in Afghanistan. But all that
proved to be a writing on the sand. Nothing was changed. The amount of military aid to the beleaguered Kabul regime and subsequently an escalation of war took place. We never found out that Gorbachev after giving so much in concession to the West, almost to a humiliating degree, letting loose the Eastern bloc, allowing the collapse of the Berlin Wall and allowing the three Baltic republics to secede, was and is still reluctant to recognize the right of self-determination of the Afghan people. After the failed coup we thought the saner elements like Mr. Yeltsin would prevail over the jingoist elements and stop all military aid to Najib but again nothing significant happened.
Moscow is likely to cut off military aid to Kabul from next January. Do you think this would really tip the balance in anyone's favour?
There is no doubt that the only thing which keeps the regime resuscitating is the unhampered Soviet military support to the regime without which it will not unable to survive. The important thing is if the Soviets really wish to have arms cut off to both sides it should discuss the negative symmetry. If Moscow agrees to this suggestion we on our part can pledge to offer facility in
t