by M. N. Sa/eem
Russians Drive South for the Indian Oceon
The Russians have been planning to get access to the warm waters of the Indian Ocean since the time of the Peter the Great and successive Russian Governments have strictly adhered to the pursuance of this strategy.
The first step the Czars took in realizing this expansionist objective was to forcibly annexe such parts of Afghanistan as Panjdeh in 1895 and soon after the Bolshevik revolution of 1917 Lenin followed this strategy and bequeathed its total implementation to his successors.
King Amanullah s accession to the throne in Afghanistan in 1919 greatly helped the Soviets to tee off the smooth implementation of this colonisalistic plan King Amanually for one reason or the other tended to have closer relations with Lenin's government and probably thought that his hobnobing with Soviets would help him against the British and strengthen his rule in Afghanistan. He therefore went into hurried and indiscreet treaties what Lenin in spite of the colonialistic history of the Russians in the region.
The Soviets in return for their recognition of the independence of Afghanistan in 1919 forced Amanullah to accept the annexation of parts of Afghanistan like Panjdeh and Khiva dismembered by the Czar almost a century ago and further pledged to help Aman-ullah to have the first ever Afghan airforce — a’project which the British had refused to support.
Upon exchanging ambassadors and diplomats, the Soviets started sending spies.to Afghanistan posing
as emissaries and diplomats and from the very beginning their embassy in Kabul was a centre of intrigue.
Apart from the nine month rule of Habibullah (Bacha Saqua) all regimes in Afghanistan since 1919 up to now have been directly or indirectly installed and toppled by the Russians. They have at will removed all their puppets one after another when any one of them has proven to be of no further worth, incapable of securing their interests in Afghanistan.
The Russians got a free hand in Afghanistan particularly when Richard Nixon/ US Vice-President in the mid-sixties, reported to his Government after returning form a trip to Afghansitan that the US must recognise that Afghanistan was in the Russian's sphere of influence. Whatever the reason, the Americans adrift in the Vietnam quicksand, abandoned Afghanistan to the Russians and right from that time the Soviets knucled down to implementing their Imperialistic strategy of exploiting the wealth of Afghanistan and bit by bit turning it into a springboard for their further expansionism in the region.
The Russians' exploitation of Afghanistan reached its apex when Zahir Shah appointed Daoud as his prime minister. Daoud, the founder of the Communits move-
ment and the patron of Taraki, Amin and Babrak swang the gates of Afghanistan open for the Russians influx into the country.
Prince Daoud started playing into the hands of his Russian masters when he raised the Pash-toonistan issue at the behest of the Russians. Had they succeeded in this scheme, Afghanistan and half of Pakistan would have been encroached by the Red Army and the Soviets would have achieved their goals very cheaply.
By pitting the Afghans against their Pakistani brethren in raising the Pashtoonistan issue, the Russians wanted to diverge the attention of Afghans from the dismembered parts like "Panjdeh" and Khiva and practically commenced their expansionist policy of fomenting unrest and trouble for ultimately dismembering Pakistan and reaching the Indian Ocean through Makaran.
The Afghan nation at large and the Islamic movement in particular by effective protests and pressure tactics forced the Zahir Shah regime to abandon its belligerent policies towards Pakistan and to desist from attacking Pakistan during the 1971 India Pakistan war when the monarchy in Afghanistan was ser-ously considering such a proposal from the Russian and the Indians.
The Soviets in pursuance of their imperialist designs in Afghanistan were acting upon three objectives:
(a)	Enslaving Afghanistan eco-mically.
The Mujahideen Monthly
27