.
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
The Kabul regime Jet Bombers also heavily pounded Mujahideen basses and the civil population. Commander Mohammad Daudzai was martyred while a number of houses were demolished in the aerial bombings.
Meanwhile fierce fighting broke out between Mujahideen and the regime forces at the centre of Maidan Wardak province. As a result, Mujahideen captured eight security posts at post Kamar, Chashma-e-Wazer and Abdara. The captured posts are in full control of the Mujahideen and they were making more advances on the regime’s other centres.
Military trucks captured
The Afghan Mujahideen seized military trucks of the Kabul regime on Kabul-Heratan Highway and set ablaze 14 oil tankers.
According to details commanders Abdul Hamed from Samangan province Dr. Ismail from
Baghlan province blocked the Kabul-Heratan Highway near Hazrat Sultan for three days and Captured sixteen military trucks of the regime. The trucks were bringing military hardware to Kabul from the Soviet Union. Mujahideen also destroyed 2 tanks and set ablaze 14 oil tanksers and captured a number of regime militiamen in the three day operation.
Auugust, 18:
100 Killed 300 injured in indiscriminate bombings
Peshawar: Hundred civilians were killed while around 300 injured due to indiscrim inatc bombings by Kabul regime Jet fighters on Badakhshan, Takhar and Kunduz provinces during the past two days.
According to wireless messages received by the commanders Shoora in Peshawar the regime fighter planes severly bombed trading centres, orchards and densely populated areas in the Northern provinces of Afghanistan.
In the course of heavy bombings Mujahideen downed a SU-27 Bomber of the regime in Juram District of Badakhshan province on August. 17, Mujahideen captured the pilot of the bomber, col. Abdul Mateen, who disclosed that he alone carried out 300 sorties on Mujahideen positions and
civilian areas in Badakhshan from the Bagram Airbase (Kabul) for two days.
August 22:
Militiamen surrander
Four militia regiments of the Kabul regime surrendered to Mujahideen of commander, Maulavi Scrajuddin in
-...v.:.,-, Page 11	<	•• •••••
the Shahrud area of Gulran Distriect in Herat province. A report received from Herat disclosed that Mujahideen launched a joint attack on regime militia regiments. After a slight resistance four regiments of the regime surrendered to Mujah ideen. The surrendered m i 1 i tiamen brought with themselves two 75 mm cannons, three zK-1, fiveRPG-7 Rocket Launchers, twenty heavy machine guns, 600 Klashinkovsand six military trucks.
August 22: heavy Bombing
Scores of people including men, women and children were reportedly killed and injured while large scale distruction was caused to civilan property in the week long heavy bombing of the Kabul regime Jet Fighters in the central Bamyan province, reports Afghan News Agency.
August 27:
Copter Downed
Peshawar:	Mujahideen
downed a regime military Helicopter with anti-aircraft gun in Sharak District of Helmand province on Aug. 26, reports ANA.
In another report, the Mujahideen alsocaptured a security post and killed six militiamen and injured eight others in Helmand province.
Convoy Attacked
Peshawar:	Mujahideen
attacked a military convoy of the Kabul regime on the Mazar-Tashqarghan Highway in Samangan province and destroyed one tank and four military trucks of the Kabul regime loaded with arms and ammunition.
August 31: