of the freedom movement in Slovenia. Half of Austrian population consists of ethnic Slovenians. Some countries after the aggression by the Federal Army, signalled that if aggression by the federal army continued they would consider recognition of the independence of Slovenia and Croatia. In the wake of struggle for independence in Yugoslavia the European community declared to send a 50 member non-military team to study the situation. It also presented a peace plan to the effect of cessation of hostilities, suspension of the independence declaration for 3 months and to find a peaceful negotiated settlement of the issue.
The Mujahideen, September , 1991
The war in the republics dies down off and on but the tension persists. The Federal Army wants to capture the out posts of the two republics for which neither of the republic’s Governments is ready to accept. In addition to this, the two republics have distributed arms among their residents to resist the Federal Army’s thrust. The European nations have paid scant attention to the issue. They want to see the secessionist problem resolved to their satisfaction. They fear the failure in resolving the problem might result into world war like situation in Europe. ChancelorKohl of Germany observed recently that a counry cannot be maintained by tanks.
If America and Europe recognize Croatia and Slovenia as independent states the emergence of two other Islamic states Bosinahe-rzegovina and Kosov from Yugoslavia will appear logical.
The Government of Yugoslavia had blamed Muslims o	f
Bosinahcrzegovina of attempting to establish an Islamic state in 1984. The authorities had recovered a document of “Islamic declaration” containing the, resolve of destroying the
• Page 14
unlslamic forces. An important personality in herzogovina wrote in 1985,” Better to shut down all the Muslim schools and Madrassas.” The second future Islamic state Of Kosov where Muslims are 90% is the victim of Serbians. From 1981 to 1983 about 1000 Muslims belonging to 73 “illegal” organizations were arrested. On April 4, 1984 a newspaper of Zegrib wrote: “At least one member of every Muslim family was arrested”.
The Serbian president while presenting report on April 12, 1984 in the presidium declared proudly: "In Kosov we took severe steps to stop riots. That was the only way left. We sent people to jail even for a minor crime. We had no patience for them.” In Kosov there is a virtual martial law since 1981. These conditions point to the creation of Islamic states out of Yugoslavia.
Now that Yugoslavia is on the verge of splitting into several independent states, the world Muslims must rise to the occasion. As in the case of Baltic States the Western powers supported their cause of independence forcefully but ignored the central Asian Muslim Republics. The same is the case with the Yugoslavian republics. The west is interested in freedom movements of Croatia and Slovenia but does not heed to Muslim population demands for freedom. This is a glimpse of the proposed new world order. What is sought for the non-Muslim population is different from what is prescribed for the Muslims. Muslims of the world must wake up from the deep slumber. They must differentiate between their friend and foe. It is only for them to take up the cause of Yugoslavian Muslims in every world forum to save them from slavery.