forced to carry weeks and weeks of food supplies with them on long expeditions. Any extra weight to be carried in the gruelling mountain ous terrain that the guerillas operate over is an unwelcome burden but the Mujahideen shoulder the supplies with the same stoicism that they jesign themselves to the other hardships that accompany being a fighter who relies just as much on faith as modern equipment for waging his struggle.
But discipline and organisation have undeniably improved and several of the Mujahideen groups as well as Hezb-i Islami, the largest of groups, have permanent bases protected by anti-aircraft batteries near the Afghan-Pakistan border.
Although food was scarce the guerillas seemed satisfied with their weapons. The ubiquitous AK47 Kalashnikov automatic rifle is the standard tool of both sides in the conflict and most groups have RPG 7 rocket propelled grenade launchers, designed for use against armoured vehicles. Both the weapons are of Soviet orgin but have also been manufactured for many years by the USSR's satellite states and Chjna.
Those villages which are still inhabited are controlled by the Mujahideen with the wholehearted support of their populations. Detractors would say that those opposed to the Mujahideen had been destroyed but there is little evidence to sustain that argument. The Mujahi deen try to provide a structure for as near a normal life as possible within the “liberated areas" with a locally-elected political commander in overall charge
He not only supervises the military operations through his fighting commanders but all other aspects of life, establishing medical and education facilities for villagers and organising life on strictly Islamic lines.
Moral among the Mujahideen seemed genuinely high and the
leadei of our group, Gulab Gul said.' "After seven years the Russians still connot control the countryside, they can only destroy it. They control only parts of the cities and when their convoys come out we destroy them."
To prove his point, Culab bul took us to the area of Hassan Khel in the north west of Paktia province where his group had attacked a joint Afghan-Soviet convoy three weeks before A snake-like column of 35 tanks, armoured personnel carries and lorries, many brand new, had been destroyed by mines a'nd rockets as they attempted to cross a river. Gulab Gul said three hundred soldiers had died in the attack. Nearby, a Soviet MI-8 gun-ship helicopter had been downed by an RPG 7 rocket fired from a hill, Gulab Gul said proudly: “We do not need Stingers, we are very inventive and we now have experts who can use the RPG. The Russians will never win because if there is only one Afghan left, he will be fighting themf
Later, as we rested in a bombed and deserted village, a flight of eight helicopters flew low overhead. The Mujahideen aimed an RPG 7. fired and missed. The helicopters sped away, spewing out flares to misguide any heat-seeking missiles that might be fired at them. About an hour after we left the village, the helicopters returned and bombed the ruins
The Afghans, ''inventive” but not always accurate, seem capable, despite the Soviet claims of break-
throughs, of maintaining indefinitely the present level of attrition. The idea of Islam and a Jihad has consolidated its hold on the national consciousness and seems to make up inspiritual strength what the Muslim deen lack elsewhere.
Brigadier killed
Continued from 31
building.. The flames and smoke could be seen billowing up. It was reported later that the crew were seriously wounded and the building of the airbase was damaged, apart from the injuries caused to the airbase staff,
In retaliation the Bagram artillery units and aircraft bombed the Mujahideen strongholds and the nearby villages for several hour. Scores of innocent civilians were wounded and three Mujahideen martyred. Many houses were razed to ground and the Russians also smashed the vacated houses, thinking that the Mujahideen could be hiding there.
On March 10th a village boy was reported that had found the head of a Russian, believed to be the head of the co-pilot of SU-24 in the bushes. He ran up to his father and whispered something in his eai. His father laughed by the burial of the head and asked the Mujahideen to listen to his son. The boy told them that he saw the head lying in the bushes. When he approached closer he found that his teath was glittering which he (boy) thought to be made of gold so he buried it.
The Mujahideen Monthly
37
;jlqn - Fe{f 1987