
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Cunning enemies, envious rivals and j credulous friends j form a joint front [ against HIA______|
By Haqqyar
a the one hand, the Afghan army officers’ uprising of March 6th has inflicted a severe blow to Kabul regime’s emaciated stature. Its pillars received serious jolts, its army became disintegrated, its credibility ended, Najib’s confidence was damaged to the extent that henceforth he cannot trust even his closest and intimate aides and he must be frightened of every one.
The uprising paved the way for similar uprisings in the future. The uprising proved to be a short cut way for the army to come into the fold of the Mujahideen, and dispelled the army’s fear of being tried, persecuted and executed by the Mujahideen. This all resulted in the Mujahideen’s renewed activism. Their morale was boosted; the stalemate broken, a stalemate which had cast a shadow on Jihad; and consequently great victories were scored for the Mujahideen.
elements who were intent on orienting the course of Jihad so as to serve their
vested interests and achieve their goals.
occurrence in Afghanistan which was against their predictions, especially an
event such as the recent formidable
They wanted to bridle the Jihad forces in order to prepare the ground for themselves to emerge as the representatives and the guardians of the people. Through this process they wished to put themselves in a position to make a bargain with the Russians on the Afghan Jihad, a bargain which would enable them to impose a government acceptable to both the superpowers while keeping Najib at the helm of power until the ground could be prepared for the re-coronation of Zahir Khan.
uprising in Kabul.
Some of the Western intelligence networks spread propaganda
This uprising was unexpected for the West, and the US in particular, because they could not imagine an
Najib the puppet Kabul ruler
On the other hand, the uprising foiled the joint conspiracies hatched by the enemies of Islam against our Jihad. It refuted their propaganda that the regime was growing stronger day by day that the Mujahideen were incapable of toppling the regime, and that a military victory was impossible for them. The enemies’ calculations and predictions regarding the Afghan Jihad proved unrealistic and subjective.
The uprising proved to be instrumental in disappointing the
Page 10