U.N. ASSEMBLY TAKES UP AFGHAN ISSUE ON NOV. 3
The U N. General Assembly will take up the Afghanistan question on Nov. 3, a U.N. spokesman announced •
But unlike previous years, there will be no debate this time. Instead the 159-member Assembly will adopt a consensus resolution, which has been prepared by Pakistan in consultation with the Soviet Union.
Officials said the draft will be ntroduced in the Assembly by 'he Assembly president. Dante Caputo of Argentina.
The text, which was unanimously endorsed by the Islamic Foreign Minister Conference on Sept. 30. calls for an intra Afghan dialogue for the establishment of a broad-based government in Afghanistan.
It emphasises that such a government ensures the widest support and immediate participation of all segments of the Afghan people, and asks Secretary-General Javier Perez De Cuellar to bring about an early settlement in Afghanistan in accordance with the Geneva Accords, signed on April 14.
The resolution notes the continuing process of withdrawal of the foreign troops and hopes it would be complete on schedule.
It calls on all parties to create conditions of peace and normalcy which would enable millions of Afghan refugees in Pakistan and Iran to return voluntarily to their homeland.
The text reaffirms the right of the Afghan people to determine their own form of government free from outside intervention and for preserving the nonaligned character of Afghanistan.
The Pakistan U.N. Ambassador, S. Shah Nawaz, hosted a luncheon for the representatives of 46 Islamic and other nonaligned countries which have been sponsoring the resolution on Afghanistan every year since the 1979 Soviet military intervention. The ambassador profusely thanked them for their consistent support to the Afghan cause that has paved the way for a settlement
of the problem under the U.N. auspices.
16
Tbn Mujahideen Monthly
MUJAHIDEEN SOON HOLD ELECTIONS
The Mujahideen will soon form an elected Shora (council) to replace the present regime in Kabul, said HIA Leader.
Elections will be held within Afghanistan and among 3-million refugees in Pakistan, said Eng. Gulbudin Hekmatyar.
The election commission will decide if women too can vote, he told a news conference.
Mr. Hekmatyar was giving the conference in the light of his recent visit of 100 miles into Qandahar and Zabul province. He said the had talked to many local commanders of all the parties about the future of Aghanistan.
He vehemently rejected the latest proposal of UN special enevoy Diego Cordovez about a government of 30 neutral figures'
The proposal does not provide for elections or any other way of reference to the opinion of the Afghan people. It does not include the Mujahideen.
"Who says the Afghans do not want elections but want a Loi Jirgah (grand Assembly)?*, he asked.
'We say this loudly that we do no want a Loi Jirgah and will never accept an impartial government. This is not my words and decision. This is the decision of our whole nation", he added
November 1988