mmm TheUuiaUJeen.OctoberlNovmber.1991
Pate 19 Wj8BHit
* JWCWWWWOPWW
C^Utt FaqUAhtMuT)
Socialism and Communism are thesystems against human nature, common sense and the basic teachings of all the religions in the world. The base upon which communism was built represented the denial of Allah Almighty, hatred and stifling of individual freedoms. The first communist revolution in Russia in 1917 was a story of untold cruelty surpassing ^oppression committed by Czars.
From 1917 to the Russian invasion of Afghanistan many nations were made victim of the communist rule. For this purpose their best weapons remained savagery and fraud. With these two weapons they engulfed the whole of Central Asia, a great centre of Muslim civilization in the past Today we know Central Asia by the names of the republics of Uzbakistan,Tajikistan, Khazakistan, Azerbaijan, Kirgizia and Tuikmenia. -This fertile land of learning and knowledge produced a number of great personalities like Hazrat Abdullah Bin Mubarak, Imam Bukhari, Imam Termizi, Abdul Mansoor Mataridi, Abu Nasar Faryabi and Sheikh Khwaja Dahauddeen Naqshband. Even in tije 'time of the Muslim decline before the communist rule thousands of Islamic Madrasas were furiictioning. Thatjfe the reason
that Islam could not be obliterated notwithstanding the great efforts by the communists.
Communist Attitude towards the Muslims
The Russian communists ~ pounced on the areas of Central Asia like beasts. In 1920 they took Bukhara and Khewa. Mosques were shut down. Recitation of Qur’an and offering of prayers were prohibited. The good Muslims were taken as criminals. Some of the mosques were taxed. The Muslim who attended the mosques after paying taxes were labelled as capitalists and were killed. Many were banished to Siberia. Thousands of the Central Asian Muslims were compelled to flee to Iran, Afghanistan, Turkey and Saudi Arabia.
The Style of Communist Action
In Central Asia, like Afghahistan, ..the communists accomplished theirmission of complete subjugation in three phases.
1-	fii the first phase the poor population of Muslim masses were shown communism and socialism as the remedy of their genuine problems. They were made to believe that communism meant nothing more than eliminating the corrupt feudalists and capitalistic 1 system. They were given the assuarance that communism was not against the religion of Islam. Instead, they propagated it as a new version of Islam.
2-	In the second phase the communists penetrated the important institutions like education, journalism, literature, media and culture. The trained agents started their work without mentioning" communism. As a result a large section of people were influenced. They made friends with the rulers in the Central Asian regions. The rulers were made to take the decisions that brought the population against them.
3-	After all these actions the country was than an optimum for the communists. There was no internal danger. So the Russian communists, ignoring all their pledges and prom ises, pounded the Central Asian land with tanks and guns. Their first target was the incapable rulers. They were replaced by trained communist and atheist agents in the region. The poor masses got nothing. Religious and political freedoms were suppressed. Even a weak gesture of dissent was met with death, prison and labour camp. Tenor was the rule of the day.
Jihad in Afghanistan
In parallel to Central Asia, was Afghanistan too. The first phase of communist penetration was started well before Zahir Shah. The second phase was completed during Zahir Shah's rule. Daud Khan was the final non-communist servant of Russia. With Daud rule the comrAunist net, work ‘beacame strong enough within the military and administration. The ground was prepared for the direct