Mujahideen.
Our trip to the mostly liberated province of Logar had begun on July 78, 1988 from Peshawar, Pakistan. After resting at a border Mujahideen base in Paktia, we drove to Logar for about six hours. The rest of the trip was by foot. While we were walking, the local Mujahideen repeatedly warned us not to stray from the footpath of our guides. Anti-personnel mins are apparently everywhere and the distraction these mines had caused was clearly evident. On the way we saw numerous fresh graves of people blown up by these mines. These graves, together with the corpses of horses and camels laying on the roadside, formed a grisly scene of Soviet barbaarism. In one area where the anti-personnel mines were found in particularly great numbers, the foot path we followed snaked through craters of discharged mines and a young man standing there directed us to walk between the marks, the marks were made of sticks and stones, but in one spot a Khaki brown jacket was also used as a marker placed on a stick like a scare crow. The jacket, as the young man recounted, belonged to the man blown up by an anti-personnel mine a few days earlier.
While walking among these mines, the danger is not only from the ground but also from the air. Since the area is about 40 miles from Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, Soviet planes carrying deadly bombs and rockets pass overhead several times a day.
Three hours of walking through this high risk area went without incident and we finally reached a valley called Kafer Dara. The valley was green with
mulberry and apricot trees. The fruits were ripe and we stopped to enjoy them. On both sides of the rather narrow valley were houses, but these were all In ruins with no human beings Inside. After eating a few handfuls of mulberries, I walked over to inspect a nearby mosque which was half damaged On the dusty shelves of the mosque I saw the corner of a book showing through a small mound of dirt I pulled the book out and found it to be a small booklet used for teaching young children the Afghan alphabet, the type I had used in my childhood some 35 years ago in Northern Afghanistan. While my eyes were focussed on a page of the booklet in my hand, I imagined myself as a child in the place of the children to whom these booklets belonged. How terrorizing the Soviet bombardment must have been to these children. Where are those children now? I asked myself; in a refugee camp in Pakistan?, in the Soviet Union?, or do they lie dead under the piles of rubble in their houses? I was still searching for these
children in my mind and a few drops of tears were rolling down my face when Mohammadullah, one of my companions, called my name saying, "Lets go! We are leaving."
We continued up the lush valjey passing several ghost villages Huge trees laid dead, blown off their trunks by bombs. Bomb craters almost perfectly
The Mujahideen Monthly
40
November 1988