IUAM REJECTS CONSENSUS
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabani at a press conference.
Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of Jamiat e-lslami Afghanistan and current head of the IUAM, told journalists at a Press conference in Islamabad on Monday he had not yet found the opportunity to meet Sahebzada Yaqub Khan to discuss the latest proposal but "the Mujahideen are against all such arrangements that call for the inclusion of Communist elements in a future government in Kabul". Foreign Minister Yaqub Khan had told reporters on his return from New York earlier this month after attending the 43rd session of the General Assembly that the Soviet Union and Pakistan were planning to present a consensus resolution on Afghanistan in the Assembly’s next session.
He had said that the resolution that calls for a broadbased government in Kabul was also supported by Pakistan's traditional allies.
Prof. Rabbani, commenting on this proposal said: “We don't permit any government friendly or otherwise to decide the future of Afghanistan".
He said the Mujahideen had already offered a general amnesty and were not ready to make any more concessions to the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul and their agents.
The Jamiat chief claimed that Vorontsov, the new Soviet Ambassador to Kabul, was the architect of the so-called reconciliation programme of the Kabul regime. He said Vorontsov had been sent to Kabul to revive this programme and to save the PDPA regime from a total collapse.
The Afghan leader, who has just returned from a five-week tour of this country, claimed that the Mujahideen had already
liberated the provinces of Paktika, Kunar, Takhar, Kunduz, and Bamian. Badakhshan, Bamian, Wardak and Qandhar have also been partially liberated.
He told a reporter the Mujahideen would soon establish an interim government in these provinces but refused to give a date.
Prof. Rabbani once again rejected the proposal to accept the former Afghan monarch, Zahir Shah, as the head of a broadbased government and said: “Zahir Shah has become a part of the history and he has no role to play in Afghanistan anymore".
On Oct. 17 the seven-party Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (IUAM) has rejected the consensus resolution that Pakistan and the Soviet Union are to present before the November session of the U N. General Assembly for the creation of a hroad-based government in Kabul.
RESOLUTION

The Mujahideen Monthly
14
November 1988