After the March 6th uprising in Kabul the recent history of Afghan Jihad entered a decisive phase. As aftermath there has been a chain reaction in the Afghan scenario. The need for a proper assesment, prompted the representatives of “ The Mujahideen “ to have a detailed interview with Br. Hekmatyar, the Mujahid Amir of HI A, in his offices. The excerpt:
Interviewer: It was expected that the March 6th military uprising will topple the Gen. Najib’s regime, but itdid not happen so. Now what is your future line of action against the Kabul regime?
Br. Hekmatyar: In my opinion, the military uprising has caused a lot of benefits to Mujahideen. The high ranking officers and the key elements of the Afghan army in the ground and air forces have given hands to the Mujahideen. The military uprising still enjoys the support of the majority of the Afghan army. The uprising produced a good opportunity for Mujahideen to penetrate the army ranks and establish their influence there. All those officers who were afraid of joining Mujahideen have been assured that they would not be persecuted after joining Mujahideen. It is why we consider the recent uprising a starting point for similar incidents in the future.
Now the way has been paved for all those officers who are fed-up with the war, hold Gen. Najib responsible for the protraction of the war, do no want to cause more bloodshed, and are intended to join their people.
Q. You mean another coup in the offing ?
I assure you of the incidence of similar event in the near future, Insha-Allah. But if we are intended to apply a name for this incident, then we call it army’sjoining Mujahideen, as what took place in Rumania, where the army joined the nation. Defence Minister (Gen. Shahnawaz Tanai) had also said that we are going to establish a more brilliant example than thatof the Romanian army. “Coup d’etat” is a word which is applied on a process in which some army officers, in order to assume power, resort to covert armed attempt against a government. But in case of the officers who have the intent to join their people and want to fight out a regime which is oppressing the nation, “coup d’etat” is not a proper interpretation.
Q. After the recent military attempt, conquest of more areas where pro-Tanai forces are stationed, including Khost garrison, as well as more defections of the army officers to Mujahideen were hoped. It took a long time but these did not occur, why?
Ans. Khost and other areas will fall to Mujahideen at a proper time. Around one hundred high-ranking officers have defected to the Mujahideen, which include a large number of General and Brigadiers. We are going to arrange a press conference inside Afghanistan wherein media men will meet them.
Q. Keeping in view the fact that they have come into Mujahideen fold without doing anything in the Army against the regime, cant we not consider the process as an indicative of their weakness?
Ans. These are the people who played an active role in the March Uprising. They have either led their under-command units, or inflected other
blows on Gen. Najib’s regime.
Those who could remain in the army have not defected. A cautious statistics shows at least 70% of the army officers have the intent to get rid of Gen. Najib’s puppet regime.
Q. Recently election has once again become a hot topic in media. It was held in Kunar Province. The Mujahideen are working on some electoral schemes, and more recently there were the news about UN-supervised elections plan for Afghanistan. Would you like to say anything?
Ans. Election is our demand. We believe that the Afghan problem can be solved only and only through elections. Some points must be kept in view in this regard;
a.	The elections can be held in liberated areas among the Jihad parties as was conducted in the Kunar Province, in which Gen. Najib and his party PDPA cannot participate.
b.	Holding general elections during General Najib’s rule is not possible.
c.	There is no need for the supervision of UNO on the electoral
process,
d.	The elections will be held under the supervision and auspices of a commission formed by the Mujahideen themselves,
e.	If the necessity for the supervision of any international delegation was felt by the Mujahideen, then after the consent of all the Mujahid forces, an OIC delegation’s supervision will be acceptable.
Q. Would you like to comment on UNO repatriation plan for the Afghan Muhajireen?