By Muslim Media
ISREALI TERRORISM FAILS TO BREAK
houses, have all been constant features of life for the Palestinians living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip
Since 1967, when the Zionists occupied these areas, more than 100.000 Palestinian men and women have been put in jails or in concentration camps. Even children are not spared In the Al-Fira a concentration camp-the former Jordanian military cantonment outside Nablus - children as young as eight or nine years old are interned. Not only are they tortured but they have also been sexually abused. Before the uprising, there were 4,000 Palestinian men and women in jail; today there are 10,000 and the number is growing.
In their attempt to crush the uprising, the Zionists have resorted to every brutal method that their crooked minds could think of - from shooting directly into crowds, using dubs to smash the skulls or break the bones of Palestinian youth to attacking homes, destroying furniture and food and bulldozing orchards and killing and injuring young children, pregnant women (there have been at least 100 cases of miscarriages brought about by Zionist atrocities in the Gaza
PALESTINIANS WILL
Palestinians using the only available means of jehad, slings, stones and sticks against the Zionist troops for the independence of their country.
The nine-month old intifadah in Palestine has long ceased to be an attraction for television cameras. There are no longer hordes of journalists, with note-pades in han, hotly in pursuit of gun-toting Israeli soldiers chasing	stone-wielding
Palestinian children. The fact that the television cameras are not there does not mean that the Intifadah has subsided, as was so arrogantly daimed by the Zionists. Even though they knew otherwise, the Zionist leaders
the uprising was stage-managed simply for the television cameras. There was never any hint that the Palestinians may no longer be willing to put up with Zionist brutalities or humiliation.
And there has been a consistent, deliberate policy of terriorising the Palestinians into submission Brutal killings, detention without trial, torture in concentration camps, where living conditions are horrible, and collective punishments of
The Mujahideen Monthly
34
November 1988