HEKMATYAR SEES NO CHANGE IN PAK-AFGHAN POLICY
The head of Hizb-e-lslami Afghanistan, Engineer Gulbudin Hikmatyar has said that the general elections in Pakistan do not pose any worry for Seven Party Afghan Alliance
After the visit of Kunar valley, the Afghan leader while talking with Agency Afghan Press in Peshawar maintained the impression as misconception that he had described about the role of any political party of Pakistan in connection with the Afghan problem, he said that the changes due to general elections in Pakistan will not affect the Afghan problem as the present Afghan policy is in the best interest of Pakistan. This fact cannot be ignored.
Engineer Hikmatyar said that the headquarter for the interim government of Mujahideen will be in Afghanistan. Before establishing the headquarter, Majlis-e-Shoora will be electd which will award the vote of confidence to the interim government He said that the present situation in Afghanistan clearly indicated that our point of view about Geneva accord was correct. The Afghan leader again clarified that
if Soviets are sincere to solve Afghan problem then they should negotiate with the Afghan Mujahideen rather to patronise the puppet regime. He was surprised that the western powers who posed themselves as champions of the democracy are trying to push back the Afghanistan towards the old system of Loi Jirga as described by Mr. Cordovez
and the airport have been cut off after the occupation of the town, where there are Soviet troops present these days. After the attack, the Mujahideen have stepped up their operations to obtain the control of the airport. The occupation authorities are using transport planes to save the trapped Soviet troops at the airport whose movements can be safe qt the night time only
MUJAHIDEEN CUT OFF THE LINKS BETWEEN THE AIRPORT AND QANDAHAR CITY
The urban guerilla Mujahideen captured Murad Qila army camp in Qandahar city on October 7, the Hizb-e-lslami sources from Qandahar front said
The sources told AAP that the links between Qandahar city
It is to be noted that after encirclement of the Qandahar airport from the south and west the only supply route remain the Kabul highway which the Mujahideen are capable to keep close whenever they desire.
In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen have captured Shehrak	subdivisional
headquarter, 120 kilometre south-west of Chaghcharan, headquarter of Ghowr province According to the reports, the
Ammunition of tank and artillery captured by Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen Monthly
45
November 1988