As a direct response to this new Islamic resurgence, Ethiopian government increased its repressive policies. Children, women and the aged were killed with impunity. Villages were destroyed completely. Men were burnt alive before family members and anyone suspected of collaborating with Muslim fighters became object of all sorts of punishments. Fortunately instead of forcing the populace against Islamic fighters, the contrary was fulfilled by fueling therage of the people against European missionaries and their Ethiopian puppets.
THE BIRTH OF ISLAMIC FRONT FOR THE LIBERATION OF OROMIA

Though armed struggle against the combined European and Ethiopian imperialism by the Oromians was indeed old. But with every new day, new experiences and understandings were acquired until a new militant movement emerged.The founder of this modem Islamic Liberation Front was Shaykh Abdul-Karim bin Haj Ibrahim Hamid Taqib. This Front is intended to be a movement that would facilitate the intellectual, political and military liberation of Oromia.
Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromia has indeed started its military engagements with existing oppressive armies of imperialism since 12/12/1969.
It's political message is based on these three major
principles
a- Glorification of the Word of Allah and Exaltation of His will on earth.
b- Liberation of Oromia from the shackles of Ethiopian colonialism.
c- Establishment of an Islamic government which will govern using the Holy Qur’an and the prophetic Sunnah.
:• I ■
I
WHO RULES THE HORN
Emperor Haile Selassie never believed he was not the Lion of Judea until his military guards over threw him in one of the bloodiest coups on the continent. He was brutally killed and the numerous chains of ministers, advisers, top government officials he enjoyed and their families were cornered and butchered mercilessly.
There endeed the reign on an emperor but the empire remained. Colonel Haile Mariam Mengistu who took over felt too ashamed to declare his own strong links to Zionism or assumed naked imperialistic titles as did his predecessor but ruled the country with the same tempo of ruthless dictator and helped the Zionist state of Israel to his utmost.
When his superiors in Washington felt he could no longer fit into a conceived New W arid Order, former president Jimmy Carter, was chosen as the ambassador at large and entrusted with the responsibility of executing a long drafted plan of distabilizing and dominating the Horn of Africa.
What jimmy did was to enter Sudan under a fake name, met rebel forces fighting Ethiopian army in khartom. The outcome was successful but the secret was divulged by a participant who felt he had been fooled to attend.
Before Sudanese authority could round up these conspirators. Carter was already on the air giving his briefing. The gist was to remove Mengistu, allow the reminants of Jewish tribes in Ethiopia to migrate out to Israel and create a strong Western alliance to prevent advancing Islamic radicalism in the region.
To this effect, Ethiopia appeared partitioned between Ogardens, Tegris, Oromia and Eritreans, Neighbouring Somalia is thrown into a real civil war best called bloody tribal pandemonium and Sudan, Uganda and the rest are not free from strong seperatist organizations financed from the West, we ask, who rules the Horn of
Africa-	Yasin	Murtadah