HERAT PROVINCE:
On Dec. 24 the enemy troops attacked the Mujahideen positions in western section of Herat city. Mujahideen resisted strongly and killed 30 Russians, 25 commandos and destroyed 4 tanks completely. Thirty Kalashinkov were seized. On the Mujahideen side three were martyred and 14 wounded.
In another operation the following day the Mujahideen repulsed the enemy troops inflicting considerable losses on them. In the attack about 60 Russian-Afghan troops were killed and 11 made captive. A jeep was destroyed and 20 Kalashinkovs were seized. Two Mujahideen were martyred and 13 wounded.
PARWAN PROVINCE
The Mujahideen of HIA under the command of Ustad Fateh Mohammad are reported to have shot down a Mig-23 on Jan. 14th. The Afghan pilot Naqibullah s/o of Bismelah from Logar, was arrested alive, while the co-pilot was killed.
WARDAK PROVINCE
The Wahdat Front in Maidan city indicate that the HIA Mujahideen repeatedly attacked the enemy posts at the end of December last, killing 15 militiamen and destroying two truck loads of food stuff.
In another operation the HIA Mujahideen killed a KHAD official on Jan 4 in Maidan city.
Later in a series of attacks on the enemy posts on Jan 15 they killed six officers.
In another operation on Janu-
ary 18, five Soviet-Afghan troops were killed and many others were wounded. The Mujahideen also killed 14 Soviet-Afghan troops, wounded three others, destroyed the KHAD building and the enemy pitches and made captive a KHAD agent. In this operation one Muja-hid was martyred and 14 other were wounded. This operation was performed on Jan 19.
HERAT PROVINCE
Commander Khalifa Subhan reports from the Gulran district that the HIA Mujahideen attacked the enemy posts on Jan. 19 in Chah-i-Shirin region, close to the Soviet-Afghan-Iran border, causing them heavy losses. Also 12 Afghan soldiers were made captive and 13 Kalashinkovs and one machine-gun were seized.
In another operation on the Gulran airport the following day, 8 RPG-7 and a machinegun were seized and 13 militiamen killed.
Commander Khalifa Subhan, in a joint operation with the Mujahideen of Jamiat Islami, launched seiers of attacks on the enemy posts in Islam Qala, Paterpul and Qadusabad on Feb. 4th and caused considerable losses to the enemy. A tank and two army trucks were
destroyed and their occupants killed. A great number of Afghan soldiers and militiamen were killed or wounded, On the Mujahideen side 30 were martyred.
In another operation the HIA Mujahideen, under the Command of Khalifa Subhan, attacked the enemy posts in Gulran district, wiped out Habib post and captured 21 Kalashinkovs. Six Afghan soldiers and militiamen were made captive. Four Afghan officer joined
the ranks of the Mujahideen with their arms.
ZABUL PROVINCE
Commander Shafiqullah of Qalat central Front attacked Qalat, provincial headquarter on 3rd week of January and killed 15 Afghan army officers and soldiers. One government post and a 76mm cannon was destroyed and the occupant of the post were killed.
The following are reports of Mujahideen operations in different provinces of Afghanistan:
KABUL:
On Jan 15 a helicopter was shot down in Tangi Abrishem, Sarobi district.
On Jan 16 two helicopters were shot down in the vicinity of Kabul City.
On Jan 26 a SU-25 was shot down in Jekdalak, Sarobi district.
NENGARHAR:
On Jan 16 a trasnport army plane and a helicopter were destroyed at the Jalaabad airport.
On Jan 20 a jet was shot down in the Ghani Khail district.
On Jan 22 a jet was shot down in the Daroonta region and a helicopter was shot down near Jalalabad City.
Jan 31, a helicopter was shot down at Daroonta Dam, 8 kilometers from Jalalabad City.
GHAZNI'
During the 3rd week of-January two helicopters were shot down close to Ghazni City.
The Mujahideen Monthly
42
Jan — Feb 1987