The Mujahideen, September, 1991
Is oppression removable?... or to put it in other words, is true justice and secured liberty attainable?... Here Shaykh Ibn Abayomi contends that the cultural disposition of a people is the most reliable variant that can be used to accelerate or deter their own contribution to human civilization... but The Third World has its own problem and this is exactly what our brother tries to explain in ...
The problem with the Third World is that it apparently wants to join other worlds without making sure first that it removes those basic reasons responsible for its backwardness.
Hardly can there ever be—going by the documented history of mankind till date— a nation which attains greatness, on a globe full of competitions, without having some driving ideological tenets on which the superiority of the entire community is founded.
A country or race devoid of a dynamic and unified faith in a common goal is already sentenced to an everlasting imprisonment in the waste basket of history.
What therefore is needed in the Third World to catch up with the so-called advanced democratic states or the big capitalist-7, is to shed the implanted inferiority complex in their psyche and believe devotedly in the possibility of everything within the extensive boundaries of nature.
The duty starts with the governments in building first and foremost real and living nations whose citizens are united not necessarily by language or colour but by intrinsic deep faith in a common goal with total preparedness to die for this FAITH without hesitation.
Unfortunately today, before the Third World is named as developing or underdeveloped, its leaders have earlier failed to
fulfil the two most important responsibilities. These are the duties of producing universal ideological principles that could rally their own subjects together and the obligation of embarking on a programme of self-sufficiency. The few among them whocould be said to possess some in-sights as regards these problems failed woefully in practical implementation of what they held to be theoretically correct.
It was perfectly true that the Third World at one time or the other was subjected to a rule of exploitation and plaunder by today’s so-called champions of liberty and defenders of human rights. Their resources were funnelled away and the meagre manpower in their possession was drained to the marrow. Such denials came through slave trade, colonialism, neo-colonialism and today’s dollar imperialism. These infact were (and are) some of what could be called our
problems but looking deeply one finds them to be of a secondary nature.
In life, man has to struggle and the fact that others stand on his way in trying to prevent his progress, can never be a cogent excuse for inaction. The true problem is that where many a nation among the so-called developed and advanced countries falls and stands up again to face the challenges of life, most Third World countries called it a quit and resigned themselves unjustly to fate. The issue therefore is more of will, determination and perseverance than of anything else.
Any nation as a gathering of tribes and clans might not be blamed for this but the culture that aids ignorance, abets superstitions, produces tyrants and pacifies the populace against all logical demands for a revolt should be held responsible for their backwardness. You have to take up the