The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
Page 03
Editorial
Solution lies in Jihad

All talks of political solutions by United States are directed towards the instalment of such a regime in Kabul which fits into the scheme of Bush’s New World order. America is well aware that a regime with strong Islamic credential would pose a threat to her imperialistic designs in this region in particular and globally in general.
America is also unhappy over the principled stand taken by leaders like Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar and Prof.
With the crushing defeat of Soviet Union at the hands of Afghan Mujahideen, Kremlinnow finds it difficult even to keep its ownempire intact. The changes in the Eastern Europe also demonstrated that communism as a system had breathed its last. The America and it Western allies no more fear communism a force, to reckon with. The only challenge to the supremacy of American imperialism and its New Word order is nothing but Islam. This is why American policy of “containment of communism” has now been replaced by “containment of Islam”. Seen in this background America is trying her best to keep true Afghan Mujahideen, whom the west term as “Muslim fundamentalist” out of the corridors of power in future Afghanistan.
Sayyaf during the Gulf war.
The fall of Khost which came as a shock for White House because it proved that Mujahideen are capable of defeating puppet regime on battle front. In deed the historical victory of Afghan Mujahideen at Khost was more shocking to Washington than anyone else because she was busy in convincing the international community that Mujahideen were not capable of scoring militaiy gains on war front The victory poured cold water on her evil designs. The fall of Khost, however, served as an alarm for Washington and she intensified her efforts for a political solution of its liking.
Thanks to Almighty Allah that
International conspiracies to block the formation of a true Islamic government in Afghanistan are not something new. The Afghan Mujahideen, who kicked Russian forces out of Afghanistan, had waged their Jihad not only to liberate their soil from foreign occupation forces but also to establish a system in Afghanistan which would be based on the teaching of Allah Almighty and Holy Prophet (PBUH).
Afghan Mujahideen a.e well aware of the conspiracies being hatched by America, her western allies and Soviet Union. All major Mujahideen organizations and military commanders have outrightly rejected all American sponsored formulae of political solution of Afghan problem. They have set their eyes on their goal i.e the formation of an Islamic state in Afghanistan, which would be free from all kind of political, social and economic exploitation.
Afghan Mujahideen understand that realization of their mission is possible only through Jihad. And there are fresh reports pouring in which speak of more victories of Mujahideen on different fronts in Afghanistan, giving credence to the belief that military victory of Afghan Mujahideen is on the cards.
Indo-Israeli collaboration against Muslim world in general and Pakistan in particular is not something new but the shootout between Kashmiri Mujahideen and Israeli commandoes, in the garb of tourists, confirmed beyond doubt the existence of a secret plot to attack nuclear installations of Pakistan at Kahuta.
The Mujahideen of Kashmir should feel proud of their extra-ordinary feat which exposed Indo-Israeli designs both against Pakistan and their sacred Jihad against the Indian occupation forces. The Israeli’s posses a long experience of brutally suppressing intifadah in Palestine and it seems as if their Indian collaborators also want to learn from their experience.
The presence of Israeli military men in Indian held Kashmir should serve as an alarm for the Pakistan and one hopes that government of Pakistan would be well aware of its responsibilities to respond to the challenge posed to its security and especially its nuclear installation from the joint RAW-MOSAD threat.
Indo-Israeli collaboration