some inefficient, inactive remnants of their army joined us in order to learn. They hung around us and were completely useless during operations. They only annoyed us. They were very enthusiastic. When we ascorted their lorries to some actions we were joined by their 'peoples militia" unit. All of them were old men, even grandfathers, all wearing their turbans. We couldnt understand what kind of an army they were.
WHAT ELSE DID YOU DO? HOW CLOSE WERE YOU TO NORMAL AFGHAN LIFE?
Once we escorted a Russian geological expedition. Russian engineers were looking for minerals there. We also protected Afghan vans transporting petrol and food. Civil servants are easily distinguished from other people by their dress. The peasants in the village hate them.
They wear a kind of very thick blanket made out of dark-colour cotton. They wear it day and night. They also use these blankets as table-cloths or rugs on which to display their goods for
sale in the street. They sleep in them and pray on them. The civil servants' style of dress puts people off. They are considered strangers and outsiders among their own people.
HOW DID THESE CIVIL SERVANTS TREAT THE SOVIET SOLDIERS?
We had very limited contact with them. I personally had the impression that they saw us as some kind of protective force. They were never hostile towards us because they realised they could not last long without us.
DID YOU SEE THE REBEL FIGHTERS? WHAT KIND OF ARMS DID THEY HAVE?
The mujahideen were equipped with old rifles and Russian kala-shinkov machineguns and submachine-guns.
HOW DID THEY. GET THE KALASHINKOVS?
They attacked our military bases and took them from my dead comrades. Some weapons they simply bought from the peasants.
Ironically, these were our weapons.' Often, regular Afghan army soldiers exchanged their Russian arms for food and drink from the peasants. So we did the same thing, because in the chaos of war to explain the loss of a weapon is easy.
WHAT DID YOU GET FROM THE PEASANTS?
They sell apricots, oranges, melons all kinds of fruit. We used
to buy all kind of food and drink, and even bread, in exchange for our weapons. Sometimes we would stop their carriages on the roads and demand "payment". We would take everything from them by force. They did not resist; they knew they couldn't get away from us—young, strong and armed. Some soldiers got hashish and other drugs. Our Asian soldiers were very often drug addicts because hash and other things grow on their land.
DID YOU TRY DRUGS?
No, I'm not interested. I was lucky because I don't smoke or drink, so I didn't depend on such things.
Bones of a dead Russian.
30
The Mujahideen Monthly