GENEVA-THE RHETORIC GOES ON...AND ON
BY SUR GUL SPEEN
Geneva is one of the most beautiful cities of Switzerland. The country might be famous for its scenic valleys and mountains and dean cities but what has made Geneva famous is the holding of international meetings, mostly about peace, security and liberty, often under the auspices of the United Nations.
Even if one does not emphasize the name 'Geneva', in the eyes of the common man Geneva conveys the meanings of peace and liberty. Whenever people come across or hear the name they often think of a meeting about human rights.
However since the Afghanistan invasion and the use of Geneva as a venue for talks on the crisis the conotations of the name have changed — for many people the images of peace and liberty that the name usually suggests have been tarnished.
This is because of the Kremlin's continual defiance of the UN's rules and regulations and its willingness to use the Geneva talks as a ploy to further its own ends.
So far six rounds of talks have been held under the control of the UN's special envoy, Mr Diego Cordovez. The seventh round is due to start soon with a trip by Mr. Cordovez to Teheran, Kabul and Islamabad.
Unfortunately the Geneva talks have had a negative impact on the Afghanistan issue. Free-minded people would agree with us that the Geneva talks have not yet touched the real parties to the Afghanistan crisis, the Russians, who invaded the country, and the Afghan Mujahideen, who are fighting for Allah's sake to establish an independent Islamic State.
Usually when an international crisis is negotiated in Geneva the real parties to the dispute attend, but in the case of Afghanistan neither of the real parties is present — Russia is not represented and neither are the Mujahideen.
In reality the Russians have succeeded in using the UN and the Geneva talks to camouflage their real intentions, to crush the resistance by any means they can, regardless of the cost to innocent people.
The Kremlin speaks of a political settlement through Geneva when it has no desire for such a settlement and uses the mass media to promote its insidious campaign.
By promoting the talks Moscow has been able to alienate world opinion from the Mujahideen, weaken sympathy for the Jihad, and create false hope throughout the world of a political settlement.
It is strange that during the Geneva talks neither the UN nor the world's free press criticizes the Russians' heavy offensives in Afghanistan, offensives that are always intensified while the talks are being held.
The indirect talks in Geneva between Pakistan and Afghanistan have given an air of legitimacy to the Soviet puppet regime in Kabul and are actually prolonging the
presence of enemy forces in the country.
This is because the Kremlin has been holding fast to its demands that the withdrawal of its forces is dependent on the talks and on guarantees that its interests will be protected not only in Afghanistan but also in the region.
The most negative impact of the Geneva talks is that those countries which are supposed to be backing the Mujahideen, supporting them politically, are not taking effective and decisive action to pressurise the* Russians into withdrawing.
Since 1982 the Afghans have been listening to the rhetoric at the Geneva talks but perceive them as being talks between irrelevant parties which' are only furthering the Soviet's military plans.
Geneva-11 was contemporaneous with the Spring offensive by the Russians in the Panjshir valley in which 30,000 enemy troops took part. The offensive ended in widespread destruction throughout the area and the genocide of innocent civilians in the valley itself and districts outside the valley such as Andrab, Kohistan, Gulbahar, Jabul-seraj, Tagab and Nijrab in Parwan province.
When Geneva-Ill was held the Russians launched an offensive in
The Mujahideen Monthly
6