news i

HELICOPTER SHOT DOWN
One Ml—8 helicopter has been shot down by the Mujahideen in Paktika province..
According to an eyewitness on February 27, at about 6.00 a.m., 12 Migs started bombing the Itifaq Front of Hezb-iTslami in Saraazah, 20 kilometres north-east of Sharanah, capital of Paktika province.
The witness said that at the same time about 25 helicopters were hovering over the nearby hills to prevent the support of other Mujahideen for the Itifaq Front.
The witness added that after four hours of bombing 13 helicopters landed and dropped commandos about three kilometres from the Front. The Mujahideen widened their circle to get rid of the commandos and heavy fighting took place between the Mujahideen and the commandos for 11 hours.
The witness said that during the fighting one Ml—8 helicopter landed near the Mujahideen's am-munitation depots. It was escorted by three gunship-helicopters.
Mujahideen under the Commander of Itifaq Front, Mohammad Usman, returned to the headquarters and took up positions. The witness said that Commander Usman opened fire with his RPG-7 on the helicopter and destroyed it. The escorting gunship helicopters fired dozens of rockets on Usman's position and Commander Usman was martyred and one Mujahid was wounded.
The witness said that 1 6 enemy commandos and the crew of the helicopter were killed when the helicopter exploded. Dozens of other enemy commandos were also killed in the fighting.
—■
command of Fazil Dad ambushed a Russian convoy on the same date, destroying three tanks and one truck. The Mujahideen captured two Russian soldiers alive while one Mujahid, Atif Khan, was martyred.
TWO RUSSIANS CAPTURED
PAKTIA PROVINCE
The Mujahideen of Hezb-i-Islami in the Sikandar Khail area of Paktia province are reported to have clashed with Russian forces on Feb. 9.
The Mujahideen under the
Another report from the Sikan der Khail Front says that Mujahideen blew up an enemy ammuni tion depot in the first week of February. Twelve soldiers were killed and two jeeps badly damaged
The same Mujahideen attacked a Russian post in the area with
The Mujahideen Monthly
21