The Mujahideen, September, 1991	■-	^	••	Page	16	ffi
Mountbatten before the division of the sub-continent meant that after division all the regions will one day reunite. It implied the eventual destruction of Pakistan. This wish on the part of Hindus was completely shared by British colonialists. This wish proved decisive in making the Muslim Kashmir a part of India.
The Muslims of Kashmir were betrayed and they rose against this cruel decision. They started a sanguinary struggle to topple the illegal and puppet administration in the held vally. They were about to accomplish this task when the then Indian Prime Minister JawaharLal Nehru put brake on the tern poof the liberation movement by taking the Kashmirissuc to UNO. The UN passed a resolution advising India to hold a plebiscite in Kashmir on the question whether they join Pakistan or India. India accepted the resolution. But it has not implemented it so far. They fear the decision of Kashmiri Muslims in the plebiscite in favour of Pakistan. Recently in “Hindustan Times” an article was published. It said “that every state election in Kashmir was rigged by India. At last Muslim population rose against the central Government to rule themselves”.
The UNO has failed in its obligations towards Kashmiris. Now in the wake of the freedom movement in Kashmir the UN must play its role in implementing its resolution as it did in the case of Iraq. It punished Iraq for violating its resolutions but still is unable to repeat the same in the case of India. It is a great test for the future of the United Nation.
Nowadays there is talk of a new world order based on equality and non-aggression among the nations. Kashmir is a test case for the said world order. The world major powers arc morally bound to show the same degree of enthusiasm shown for the liberation of Kuwait. Is there, in terms of human aspect, any difference between Kashmir and Kuwait? Certainly not. In case they f deal with the Kashmir issue on different footing, then the Muslims will be entitled to question the legitimacy of the NOW and lebal it a weapon against the Muslims.
The Muslim countries have a special responsibility in this case. Kashmir, being a Muslim population, deserves the support and assistance of the Muslims thcworld over. Unity among Muslims is the cardinal principle of Islam. To prove solidarity with the cause of Kashmiri freedom struggle is in the line with the teachings of great Muslims like Jamaluddin Afghani, Allama Iqabal and Shah Hamadan who were fond of Kashmir aswcll as Muslim progress. ^
m
ip
1
1
!;>X;
II
SI
WjX-l
p

Health
c

Fast Walk- A Good
Recipe)

For healthy mind healthy body is a must. But for healthy body somethings areessential.They are balanced nutrition, rest and exercise. As for exercise morning walk takes precedence over all other forms of physical exercises. But lethargy or lack of public parks keep us from this beneficial habit. Somewhere there are public parks but no walker somewhere we have walkers but no park. Walker or not all agree on the point—walking is a good exercise. With this one can live active and happy.
There are people who are not aware of the benefits one can gain from morning walk. They think it a wastage of time and are not ready to sacrifice their sweet sleep in morning. What modem medical research tells us is on the contrary. It suggests that walk can relieve us from many deadly diseases. The people who take regular walk live longer than those who avoid it. Wecan witness a good number of old persons in parks. They possess enviable physique and active minds. They make a distance between them and diseases.
Walking is very very necessary for heart patients or for those who have taken a by-pass, doctors advise walking more than medicines. Doctors say a regular walk makes it easy to cure a heart patient. A regular walk from the early age saves us from heart attack. It is also very helpful in preventing high blood pressure.
Fatness is the mother of diseases. By taking fast walk we can fight fatness and become slim and smart. A research shows that in a period of two to three months, more than 100 pound of weight can be reduced in this way. In this coanection one thing is to notice. Fast walk is more beneficial than slow one. For a habitual walker it becomes very difficult to abandon this habit. Sometimes when he could not find time for walk, he passes a bore day. fast walk has a refreshing effect on health. Morning walk refreshes health. It rejuvenates.
In addition to heart patients, walk is advised for men suffering from cancer. They must take long walk. Medical research indicates long walk keeps one young for long years. Work capacity increases because freshness envelopes all the body and one remains in good moods till he goes to bed. It is also important for joint-pain because it gives strength to muscles. Light exercise and jogging in morning harden shoulders, arms, belly and legs. To discard it is very harmful.
Like doctors psychologists also advise walking. One should take walk when under mental pressure. Similarly, in case of noise in house or when there is no lime for a creative activity, one must take a fast walk. Itrefreshes mind and prepares one for serious work. Likewise, diabetics and men with weak eyesight are advised walk. The views of greenery and rising sun in morning affect eyesight positively. Pregnant women should take walk. It makes them healthy. So what not? Long life, free from ailments and good health. One small sacrifice can gain us a lot; the very sacrifice of taking pains for a fast and long walk.
-12


_