The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991
1 Page 15
American-Jewish Committee

s WK	v	s'.:
i4 buAbdu-Rahman
Contray to popular behlief, it is Western democracy that has become a hostage of Zionist global imperialism and not vice-versa. Here is a revealing pre-Gulf crises document; summary of the actvities of the 31th conference of the American Jewish General Affairs (ABAC) held Washington between June 10th and 12th, 1990. Submitedby our special correspondent and translated by Yasin Murtadah
Affairs Committee is actually a part of the Israeli grand connection on the North American Continent, except that its importance lies particularly in the extensive influence it commands in American political circles. An observer, Newbroak Taiz, once described it as “the strongest, most highly organized and influential gathering in Washington. Representative Michael Clay said some time ago that “ABAC terrorizes the Congress...It has a variety of methods in luring and intimidating members of the Congress in realizing Jewish goals in America.” The ABAC also has the reputation of being aided and supported by the Israeli Embassy in Washington
on a daily basis. (It would be of interest to mention that this organization officially issued its press statement defending the aggressive Israeli attack on the Iraqi Nuclear Plant in 1981 hours before the Israeli Prime Minister in Tel-Aviv gave the official version of the attack.)
The annual ABAC conference is recognized as one of the most highly political gatherings in the U.S. Senior government officials from the White House, popular members of the Congress, and representatives of the diplomatic corps of other countries are usually present. DuringRonaldReagan’s term in office, the President was represented at ABAC Conference by the Vice-President, George Bush. The current Vice-President as well as the Secretary of Defence also participated in the last ABAC gathering.
Mr. Geonaversh, in his speech to the attendants, emphasized the importance of establishing close intimacy with members of Congress through press releases, conferences and symposiums. This method, he concluded, was not only very effective but explained the cogent reasons behind the failure of the Arabs in influencing American official and public opinion.
Similarly, he expressed a prevailing opinion among participants by condemning any nation of the world moving towards peace and added that a third world war could well start in the Middle East between the Arab states and a West-supported Israel. He also contended that there was a great distinction between the situation which led to the 1973 Arab-Israeli war and present socio-political developments. The difference, he maintained, could be noticed from the mere fact that Saddam
Hussain has successfully risen to be a regional leader. His success, the speake explained, was bom from the ability of the Iraqi leadership in winning the support of major sections of the Arab populati on to its side as well as its almost successful bid to form a militant anti-Jewish united front in thf Middle East.
The ruling Iraqi government managed to bring Arab heads of states to Baghdad as well as to project its strongman, Saddam Hussain, as the most popular leader in Arab streets and city-enclaves throughout the entire region. To the common people, argued the Jewish speaker, Saddam actually performed an amazing feat by challenging and curtailing “Iranian fundamentalism”, which compelled the Arab world to accept his leadership.
Later he said it would be unrealistic to believe that most Arab nations would ever recognize the state of Israel. Here he cited the example of Yasser Arafat’s refusal even under collateral international pressure to condemn Abu Abbass. If Arafat had done that, he believed, the PLO leader would have been assassinated the next day.
Though with some reservations, Geonaversh believed the ongoing dialogue between American officials in the External Affairs Department and Palestinian leaders should continue. The reason, he maintained, was the mere fact that such dialogues could never give the Palestinians anything but mere conventional resolutions and never-to-be fulfilled promises. After these observations the speaker expressed his amazement at those who still held the faintest hope of Egyptian co-operation on resolving the Palestinian issue. He