Over 600 Troops Joined Mujahideen
RUSSIAN OFFICERS KILLED
security officers were seriously wounded. They later died from their injuries. Two tanks and 715 rifles were also captured by the Mujahideen.
RUSSIAN OFFICERS KILLED
About 400 militiamen and 250 Karma/ troops have defected to the Mujahideen in Ghazni under the terms of a general amnesty an noun ced by the Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, Engineer Hikmatyar.
The Amir announced the amnesty on December 27, the sixth anniversary of the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. The defectors surrendered to Commander Sarwar Khan leader of the Pydara Fronts of central Ghazni, on January 10.
In the surrender they handed over heavy, and light weapons and according to a wireless report they are now fighting with the Mujahideen against the Russians who are enraged by the enormous defection.
A squadron of Russian jets and helicopters has been shelling and strafing the Mujahideen fronts to try to capture the defectors. The report said that a large number of civilians from nearby villages had been rounded up by the Russians because they believed the villagers were instrumental in the surrender.
All the Mujahideen fronts of Hezb i-lslam have been spreadimg news about the amnesty and it has been enthusiastically received by the enemy's rank and file.
As reported earlier in the world press, Commander Sarwar Khan and his men last month conquered the Khawaja Amiri district in the north of the province in a daring attack.
During the fighting the Mujahideen killed the districts deputy aovernor and several political and
A large number of enemy troops, including two high-ranking Russian officers, have been killed in an attack by Mujahideen on Russian Karmal forces in the Numan area of Ghazni province.
According to the Commander of Hezb-i-lslami forces in the area about 55 Afghan soldiers surrendered to the Mujahideen and aight tanks and three jeeps were destroyed in the operation which took place on December 15.
One truck laden with food, a Dashaka anti-aircraft machinegun, and thousands of rounds of ammunition were captured.
In a separate incident the Corps Commander of Karmal troops in Ghazni province. General Salam Khan, was killed when his APC passed over a mined area on the same day
Mujahideen have captured Sayed Mohammad Saeed, a notorious Khad agent, and 12 of his accomplices in a guerilla raid in Ghazni city.
The agents were caught about Two weeks ago and are being tried under Islamic law.
PARWAN PROVINCE
Heavy fighting has been reported between the Mujahideen and Russian forces in the Kapisa and Kohistan Districts.
The fighting erupted when the Mujahideen attacked a Russian convey in mid-December and played havoc with the huge column of tanks coming from northern Afghanistan.
Mujahideen aiming their arms at Russian helicopters, havering at a distance from their position.
36
The Mujahideen Montmy