The Russians resorted to reprisal operations against the local people of Kohistan and destroyed several villages and heavily bombed the whole area. In addition to destroying 12 tanks and trucks and killing the crew the Mujahideen shot down a Mig. 23 fighter bomber. Dozens of civilians were reported martyred.
TEN AIRCRAFT GUTTED AT BAGRAM AIRBASE
Mujahideen under the command of Ustad Fateh Mohammad have attacked the Bagram airbase/ destroying 10 aircraft and badly damaging the terminal building and other installations.
In a letter, Commander Ustad Fateh said that the operation was jointly conducted by the Numan and Al-Badier Fronts and theaircrafts and terminal building were set ablaze by rocket fires.
He said that during the attack, which took place on December 29 three Mujahideen were injured.
LAGHMAN PROVINCE
Members of the Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan have shot down a Hind-24 helicopter with anti aircraft fire during a clash with Russian forces in Qarghai district.
Recently the Mujahideen stepped up operations in the warmer provinces such as Nangarhar, Lagh-man and Kunar, and in response the Russians mobilised large number of troops.
The first columns of the Russian ground forces arrived in the Qarghai	district at	the	end of
December and faced stiff resistance from the Mujahideen.
The	Mujahideen,	under	Commander	Sana Gul,	used	rocket
propelled grenade launchers, antitank and anti-aircraft weapons against	the enemy	and	forced
them to withdraw.
During the encounter many Russian troops were killed and wounded and eight tanks were destroyed or damaged. As a result of retaliatory bombings by the
Russian airforce 95 civilians, including women and children were ki lied.
Continued from Page
Russians' withdrawal, (a) Afghanistan will not be a military base of another power.
(b) Afghanistan will be a free, independent, Islamic and non-aligned country having independent judgement on all international issues, (a) Afghanistan will never be used against the Russians by other powers. Any misgivings about the above facts are misplaced and baseless, as we would need ages to reconstruct our devastated country and that is only possible in peace and active non-alignment.
The refugee problem will be instantly solved after the withdrawal of the Russian troops and all Afghans will go back with dignity and honour to their homes
Pakistan for the first time will see a real friend on its western borders after the independence of Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen Monthly
37