
w
HEtfi
| r
Wm
Shahid Lieutenant Ghafar, who was martyred on Oct. 1st in the battle for Sharana, was one of the outstanding commanders of H.I.A.
According to Mohammad Khalid Farooqi, Amir Jehad Paktika, that the fall of the province began with the tookover of Wazi Khaw district and Khyar Kot brigade. Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan Commander of Katawaz. Dr. Alam Shah with the co-operation and coordination of Mujahideen of the other parties took full control of the government bases on the third week of September.
During the operation one helicopter gunship while it was on its bombing mission was shot down by Mujahideen. One tank, two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs), two Dashaka, and several mortars and cannons of different range and large number various kind of rifles with several ammunition depots were seized by Mujahideen.
Several ammunition depots of some security posts were blown up by Russian bombing when the government found that they would be about to runover by the Mujahideen. The head of Katawaz district and chief of KHAD were arrested with more than 150 soldiers and officers. The brigade command with some of his loyal officers were killed during the fighting.
Commander Khalid Farooqi told that in the last week of Sept. While fight for Urgoon and Zama was on its peak, Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan under the command of Qazi Rais. Commander	Mujahid,
Commander Mohammadyar, Zabit Ghafar. Commander Akhroot, and Zabit Abdullah Jan with Mujahideen of other parties increased their operations to capture the capital and wipe out the surrounding 13 security posts.
On Oct. 1st Mujahideen successfully took full control of the Sharana and wiped out all 13 posts. The unchallengeable commander of Hezb-l-lslami Afghanistan, Zabit Ghafar (lieutenant) with dozen of other Mujahideen were martyred in the fighting. Mujahideen were able to seize 3,500 different type of rifles, five 76mm cannons, 15 APCs, 85 army trucks, 15 mortars—1 07mm, 20 Zeaguak, two 82mm cannons, numerous RPG-7s, two wireless unit of R-118, 50 portable wireless units, one mobile hospital, one helicopter with miner technical
%
faults, and large quantity of ammunition, food and clothes.
Deputy Governor, KHAD’s Chief, and several dozens of officers with soldiers were arrested. While 45 soldiers and post commanders were killed. The Governor, Colonel Abdul Wahab with 50 of his commandos were able to make it safely to Muta Khan subdistrict with fear and hazardous escape. From there they were flown to Kabul.
Commander Khalid Farooqi added that while the fight for
The Mujahideen Monthly
23
November 1988