The Mujahideen, July / August, 199
I Page 27
Palestine ) The Intifadha movement
Acifullah-MA.
The revolutionary Islamic movement of Palestine, Intifadha’ has entered its fourth year. The people of Palestine on this occasion, pledge to continue their great struggle till the final victory is achieved. They know the price of this pledge but are prepared to pay it. Already they are wading through the rivers of blood and tears for their great cause of freedom.
During the last three years Palestinians have demonstrated an unprecedented level of fearlessness, stam ina and steadfastness in fighti ng the Jewish usurpers of their sacred land. As the courage shown by Palestinians is unparalleled in history, so is the nature of their fight agaisnt their enemies. While the Zionist forces use all kinds of modem weapons as tanks, machine guns and missiles, the great Mujahideen of intifadha movement fight only with stones and clubs as they have no other weapons to fight with. Unlike other world movements the vanguards of intifadha are small children and women. Then they do not fight the zionist regime in mountains and jungles but in the streets of cities as well as villages. They continue their struggle in a demonstrative form as public meeting,processions,pickettings, strikes, demands and combats. They do all in public to liberate Al-Quds Alsharif and to retake their lost country .The usurpers did all to suppress the movement but all in vain. The three-year old Irtifadha has gained more than the entire Palestinian struggle since 1948. The moral defeat, the zionist army is faced with every day, is immeasurable.
Armed with stones and sticks, the innocent children and women speak to the zionist forces with courage,” Jews, usurpers, get out of our homes”. But they respond with killings, tortures, disgrace and imprisonments. According to an Arabic journal, during the last three years, one thousand and three
hundred (1300) Palestinians have been killed nad other thousands inj ured, about 70000 young Palestianins are suffering in torture celles. In occupied Palestine thousands of Muslims houses are buldozed and children stopped from going to technical institutes. On violating the unjust rules, they are dispersed with tear gas. But whatever the obstacles, the Palestinian people have resolved to advance.
For the last three years 250,000 Palestinians have been denied their right to settle in the occupied territory kept for the settlement of Russian Jews. In Moscow about 35000 passports are issued every month to the Russian Jews for they could migrate to Palestine. By the end of 1992, it is estimated, more than a million Jews will have migrated to Israel.
In the opinion of international observers, the extraordiray resistance by Palestians is a great puzzle for Israel and US. They are amazed at the force which has kept the struggle of these hungry thirsty and unarmed people in tact. It is more surprising, especially, in the absence of any outside help.
Since Sept. 7,1987 there have been 12000 combats between Palestianins and zionist army as a result of these fights about3570 Jew army men have been killed and wounded. What Palestinians have suffered has been immense. During their fights the Mujahideen also used daggers and kin ves along with stones and sticks.
Influenced by Intifadha’s Islamic movement, many people in the region have risen against the zionist. For instance, an Egyptian namely Abusehan attacked an Israeli camp in dark and killed five soldiers. Similarly a Lebanese women hurled a bomb on zionist and caused them a big damage in men and material. In the like manner, a 22 year old Egyptian Mohammad Hasan and Salman Khater attacked the slept zionist and killed them, these examples are
enough to substantiate that the Intifadha Mujahids have spread in the region to prepare the young Muslims for the cause of Islam. All the justice loving people especially the Muslims the world over have been disgusted with the cruelty and callousness demonstrated by the Zionists. They wish to see this horribal game finish and the villians meet their logical end. The zionist too have been harassed because of the world movements turn ing against Isreal. The new generation greatly abhors the Zionists dirty game. It is likely that one day the youth all over the world cross their respectti ve borders to take on the Zionists and that would be the final day of Israeli government.
An Israeli diplomat was killed in Egypt in 1985. After this an Israeli delegate was murdered al ter being locked up. No clue was found to these incidences not notwithstanding a great effort by the Egyptian governemnt. Why ? Because the guerillas of Islamic movements do these acts voluntarily. They do it to make the Zionists realize the result of their acts. If the Arab govememnts helped their Palesinian brethren, they would shorten their joumy to freedom.
Israel got $35b loan from other countires during the last three years to spend on the occupied territory, but to no avail. Business centres always remain closed due to demonstrations. This has suffered even the Jew labour in financial terms. Last days 10000 unemployed Israelis participated in a protest against Shamir governemnt. Israeli people also suffer because of the continued unrest But the Israeli rulers harbour the vain hopes of one day becoming the masters of the whole region.
It is due to the Intifadha movement alone that resolutions have been passed against Israel in UN. The securitary council resolution 672 has condemned the Israeli atrocities. The woprld public opinion has turned against the Isreaeli regime. Now it is duty of all ______________Continued on Page 46