and Iran as ambassadors where they had embezzled funds from their respective embassies. They were declared fugitives and traitors to the party and the whole nation and were even stripped of their Afghan nationality. The decisions of the plenum were duly published and broadcast by Kabul and Moscow radios and other countries mass media. Unashamedly, the Soviets have imposed all those proclaimed "fugitives" and 'traitors" on the so-called PDPA and the whole nation by the dint of force.
Nobody knows who "invited" the Soviet aggressors to Afghanistan! If the Kremlin claims that Amin invited the Russian forces, then how could he have extended an "invitation ' for his own physical liquidation ? Because of his disagreement with inviting' or allow ing Russian military advances into Afghanistan, he faced the wrath of the Red Army upon its occupation of Kabul. The Russians immediately began the bombing and shelling of s\ Amins palace. And after a few hours of resistance by his loyal cadres Amin got killed in his own palace.
Cohversely, they argue that Babrak Karmal had invited the Russian forces, then he was flown to Kabul one week after the invasion in December 1979. His first speech was simultaneously broadcast from Radio Moscow and Tashkent when Radio Kabul was still eulogising Hafizullah Amin, in the precise words which the Russians had used to praise Amin; calling him the hero of so-called the 'Saur Revolution'.
Moreover, we are amazed how the Russians consider a limited contingent 85,000 troops equipped with 800 tanks and XP,CS and 300 warplanes and helicopters/ now increased to more than 230,000 troops, /4000 tanks and APC's .and 700 aircraft and* helicopters.
It could have been called a limited contingent had Russians been at war with another superpower. But how can such a large force constituting massive air-cum-ground power deployed most ferociously against a poor, backward and weak state like Afghanistan be called a "limited contingent"? Whatever they call it, limited or unlimited, the people of Afghanistan by the Grace of Almighty Allah have belied all calculations and estimates of the nefarious Soviet aggressors.
The fallacy of the Soviet claim that their forces had come to fend-off foreign interference in Afghanistan is so clear that it needs no explanatin. The only intervention and interference in Afghanistan is that of the Soviet Union and its surrogate countries. On the innumerable! battle fronts, either Russian troops or the Afghans get killed, Had there been any intervention from Pakistan and Iran then the refugees should have swarmed northward towards the Soviet Union. But in fact all the refugees are moving from the northern side to the south, east and west.
If the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan is labelled as "defence" of Afghanistan against imaginary foreign intervetnion then we surely denounce this..brutal defense. What kind of "defense* is it where more than 1.1 million Afghans have been decimated by our so-called "defender', the country ravaged by seven years of war and none from * outside other than Russian troops and those of their surrogates getting killed ?
Indeed, our country is a victim i-of the policies of so-called friendship with the Soviet Union and of the treacherous and short-sighted policies of the previous Afghan governments.
These governments opened the doors for Soviet penetration. The Afghan army was equipped and trained by the Soviets and they relied upon exploitative Soviet assistance in most economic projects. And now we all are a witness to the painful consequences of the policies of so-called good neighborly relations and non-interference the previous unpatriotic and incompetent regimes readily boasted. We are now suffering the outcome of those suicidal policies in seven years of devastating war. Those naive rulers also paid the price of their misdeeds. Zahir Shah was deposed in a bloodless coup. Dauod was killed with Russian machina tion, Tarakai was suffocated by the Russians, Amin and his family were blown apart by the Russian artillery barrage ; Babrak Karmal is also destined for the same fate. These figureheads were changed often like old spare parts, discarded when no longer of any use to the Russians.
Friendship with the Soviet Union is the worst type of friendship in the world. In fact, those who refuse to befriend the Soviets remain protected against their evil designs. The tragedy of Afghanistan should be a lesson to all developing and third world countries. In order to avoid repetition of the fate of Afghanistan they should decrease their reliance on the Soviet Union and all other colonial powers.
The perpetuation of the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan is not only a threat to this region but also affects the security of world at large. This is neither the first nor the last attempt by a superpower to trample the independence of a small state The invasion of Afghanistan is only the first step towards the fulfilment of the long-term Russian expansionist designs to reach the shores ot the Indian Ocean.
12
The Mujahideen Monthly