memm
The Mujahideen , ApriLMay, 1990
Kashmir Issue
by Javid Iqbal
The success that the Afghan Mujahideen achieved in humbling a superpower has encouraged many small nations to challenge the military might of the great oppressors.
Once the spirit of sacrifice is awakened in any people, no foreign army can control them. Forty years should be considered a sufficient period to come to the conclusion that the Kashmiris will not give up their cause. Trouble will recur again and again. There will be no end to it.
Currently, life in Kashmir is paralyzed by violence and strikes, national and international press are banished from the scene, and hundreds of people have been killed in army and police actions.
Incidents at the line of control have raised the number of people killed to over 300 since the government launched a crackdown Jan. 20 on the Muslim separatist movement. The curfews made the harsh Kashmir winter even more arduous and spring brought no reliefto the people. The trucks bringing firewood are stuck on the highways. The towns wear a ghostly look at night. The tourists have fled. Local business has collapsed.
Historical Background
The Kashmir issue not only has strained Pak-Indian relations for the last 42 years, but has also endangered the peace and security of the South Asian region. The issue is the product of an Anglo-Congress conspiracy, and a direct consequence of the 3rd June plan of 1947, which encompassed the partition of British India into two separate and in-
dependent sovereign states of Pakistan and India.
In this part of the world, religion has played a great part in shaping the identity of particular regions and their people. The Indian subcontinent had been ruled by the Muslim dynasty for several centuries, butas it weakened and decayed, the subcontinent was gradually subjected to British rule. The British attitude towards Muslims was based on jealousy and fear that they might recapture power. Therefore they were continuously devising plans to keep the Muslims backward both politically and economically.
For various reasons, the Muslims were not politically active and were discouraged from joining the Congress Party when it was established by a retired British civil services officer,
A.H. Hume, in 1885. Thus the Congress Party came to be dominated by Hindu extremists who treated Muslims with envy and hatred. To protect the rights of the Muslims of India, the Muslims found that there was no alternative except to form their own party, and they finally formed the Muslim League in 1906.
The idea of a separate homeland for the Muslims was forwarded by the great poet AllamahMuhammad
Iqbal in 1930, and was given practical shape by the Muslim League in its historical Pakistan Resolution of 23rd March 1940. The 3rd June plan of 1947, announced by the last viceroy Lord Mountbatton, decided the future of the two communities. It was envisaged that the Muslim-majority provinces would form a separate state which would be called Pakistan, and the Hindu-majority provinces would make Hindustan. The princely states would be given the right of self-determination to decide their future, whether they would accede to Pakistan or India. In pre-Partition India, the native princes ruled certain parts of the subcontinent called states, e.g., Hyderabad ( Deccan) State, Swat State in NWFP, and Kashmir State which is still disputed.
India never reconciled herself to the existence of Pakistan; she left no stone unturned to weaken Pakistan. It was, therefore, with this ulterior motive in view, to weaken Pakistan economically and strategically, that the Congress
/ AFGHANISTAN	<
' /------------------------------
/ /...................
/	NORTHERN	AREAS
AND
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
USSR
l
CHINA
c*

Muz8«8rab«JtO(^©&)P0f*	 *
, Baf8mul8(00Wl’l,arLal<e
Islamabad	\	Xq
O	'	.*** ^'ulmar9	Anantnag
O	\	:	o
Rawalpindi	•
M..
INDIAN-HELD KASHMIR
Mlrpuf
PAKISTAN

O Jammu
\
Sialkot O \_^.n
INDIA
\ ^ . < v-
j

V.
International Boundary	—
Border of the Disputed Territory of Kashmir	—
Cease-Fire Line	
	
Page 31