The Mujahideen . April!May, 1990

on the other hand, has many approaches which include intersectoral cooperation. First, the mother needs education to properly look after the food needs of her family. Then the availability of food depends on the agriculture sector to plant, grow, harvest and store the crops after the military sector has cleared the land of mines. Then the sectors for transporting, wholesaling, and retailing, including inspecting , licensing, and advertising, are involved. Finally, as urbanization increases, more and more families need income to buy the food which means jobs are needed and the fathers need education to budget their earning.
III.	Intersectoral aspects of malnutrition, especially considering agriculture
Agriculture policy aimed solely at improving output or income may have unforeseen effects on health. To have food, you either need land to raise food or income from work. In developing countries more than 2/3 of the popula-
tion derive their livelihood from agriculture while only 5-10% do so in developed countries. So, in developing countries, most working time is spent in agriculture. At the same time, most income is spent on food.
Agriculture development should aim to stabilize income and food production♦
Mechanization with big tractors and equipment usually means loss of employment for farm workers and large debts for farm owners. The large farms needed to make machinery worthwhile mean that smaller farmers sell their land and move to the city where there are no jobs and no land either. This means no income, no food, and malnourished children.
Urbanization is a dangerous trend for any country. Excessive migration of people to the city creates unemployment, crime and unhealthy overcrowding of housing and all facilities, leading to unsanitary conditions and lifestyle. In an overcrowded city epi-
demics of infectious disease can spread very easily. To prevent this, development efforts must aim to enhance rural life, for example, so that social services such as health care are equally available in the rural areas as urban.
Emphasizing cash crops for export such as cotton may mean that there is not enough land for staple foods. Discouraging such cash crops as poppies or tobacco because of their harmful effects to the consumer may mean that subsidies may be needed to provide profits for farmers of other crops.
Encouraging animal husbandry means a lot of land is used raising food for the animals which are an expensive protein as compared to raising cheaper plant proteins for people.
Changing to high-yielding varieties, of wheat, for instance, means increased investment in the seed which may not be adequately tested for the insects, climate, and water conditions of the region, thus causing greater losses, not only to the farmer, but to the con-
Page 52