especially because the Mujahideen are determined to set up an Islamic system of government that may have profound implications for influencing events far beyond the borders of Afghanistan.
A good understanding of the nature, direction, and implications of the socio-cultural changes that have occurred and are occurring in Afghanistan, a reasonable knowledge of the availably and potential economic resources in Afghanistan as well as an undrstanding of the dynamic nature of intrnational relations, laws, and economics will enable the Mujahideen leaders to make a more informed decision in the formulation and enforcement of internal and external policies.
The generation of such specific and relevant knowledge for a scientific formulation of policy in Afghanistan requires that a group of competent and experienced scholars from
several different disciplines undertake a systematic study of the most pressing and most immediate questions pertaining to the internal and external policy goals.
There are numerous Afghan and non-Afghan scholars scattered around the globe who have maintained an active interest in the issue of Afghanistan during the last decade. These scholars have made meaningful contributions by writing analytical articles or books or engaging in public speaking about the struggle of the Afghan Mujahideen. A\ concentration of their collective intelectual energy on a relevant question about Afghanistan could generate answers of great value for Afghanistan.
A research and advisory council is proposed to be made of these scholars who come from a variety of disciplines such as political science, sociology, anthropology, psychology,
economics, religion, history, education, medical science, and engineering. For the purpose of improving the objectivity of judgement of the council, it is proposed that this professional council be non-partisan and independent.
The council will have a coordinator. an assistant coordinator, a secretary, and two correspondence clerks. There will be two categories of members. Full-time members stationed in Peshawar, Pakistan (or somewhere in Afghanistan) and part time members residing outside Pakistan.
Issues to be investigated by the council will be those raised by the Heads of the Mujahideen, leaders of the state and government of Afghanistan, or those issues that are considered important by the council itslef. Written solutions, advice, or proposals pertaining to an issue that is researched and discussed by the council will be presented to the above-designated Mujahideen leaders.
The Mujahideen Monthly
33
November 1988