heavy losses Kabul Radio has reported that five people were killed and several others were injured during the fighting The report further said that the planes aiding the ground forces dropped bombs which could not hit the target. The bombs exploded in the rural localities but the losses occuring thc<r-could not be confirmed
AFGHANISTAN'S SITUATION TENSE - RADIO MOSCOW
The Moscow Radio quoting spokesman of soviet Foreign Ministry said that situation in Afghanistan is still tense like in the past.
According to the Radio Soviet spokesman Gennady Grassimov during the press briefing mentioned the killing of Abdul Shakoor and Mansoor Ahmed Khan, the high ranking officials of the ruling party who were killed in Herat. The spokesman said that over 1000 officials were killed during the last eight years.
OPERATION IN KUNDUZ
The	Hizb-e-lslami
Mujahideen, on October 13, stormed at a security post near Qandahar city.
According to the reports the Soviet troops fled away carrying a dead body and three injured during the swift operation. The Mujahideen seized arms and ammunition from the security post and moved towards safe places before the arrival of reinforcement.
AFGHAN PROBLEM IS DANGEROUS FOR REGIONAL PEACE
The Puppet Kabul regime
has also mentioned the Afghan problem as constant danger for the regional peace.
The Kabul Radio has included India in the countries who are directly affected by Afghan problem. According to the Radio present situation of
Afghanistan is harmful which cannot be solved even by Geneva accord
OUTPOST NEAR QANDAHAR CAPTURED BY MUJAHIDEEN
The Mujahideen in a swift operation captured Chehl Zeena military camp close to Qandahar city where 20 Kabul troops were killed and injured while 12 others were arrested The Mujahideen are also reported to have seized a large quantity of arms and ammunition during the operation on October 19 Four tanks were destroyed at the place
The captured military camp is of most strategic importance and is set up a the hill top at Surpooza From this post, Qandahar city and the airport can be targeted easily However, there wao still a large quantity of oil which is now in the possession of the Mujahideen.
Chehl Zeena is based on forty step passage to the hill and the former Afghan government had set up posts on the top of the hill. There is also Radar system operative there which captured by the Mujahideen The Mujahideen have established their positions at the post
ZARMAL HEADQUARTER LIBERATED BY MUJAHIDEEN
The Mujahideen liberated the Zurmat sub-divisional headquarter in Paktia on
October 17 Several troops were killed or injured in the operation.
The Mujahideen captured from the place three tanks, two heavy machine gunds, seven military vehicles and dozens of boxes full of hand grenades
The same day an army officer from a military post near Gardez joined the Mujahideen alongwith 13 troops
SOVIET HELICOPTER DOWNED IN GHAZNI
The Afghan freedom fighters shot down a Soviet helicopter gunship near Muqar town on Kabul Qandahar highway, 182 kilometres from Ghazni.
According to the reports, the helicopter was straffing the Mujahideen positions in area when it was hit by the rocket. The helicopter crashed as it
The Mujahideen Monthly
50
November 1988