fate of Nazi Germany in the light of their own reckless policies in Afghanistan - • which, like those of their predecessors engaged in similar expansionism, destruction and .genocide, are doomed to fail. At the same time, international consciousness must be raised to the Soviet challenge threatening the fabric of our civilization. Every moment of Soviet presence is a holocaust of this era to which no human soul can remain indifferent.
While appreciating the efforts of all friendly and peace-loving countries and organizations and of all those including the honorable UN Secretary General and his colleagues, who want a solution to the Afghanistan problem, we wish to bring the following points to your kind attention :
1.	The root cause of the whole crisis of Afghanistan is the direct and indirect Soviet interference in our internal affairs and their armed aggression in the occupation of Afghanistan and the forcible imposition of their will on our naton. The only solution to the problem, we reiterate, is the complete, unconditional
and immediate withdrawal of Soviet forces and respect for the independence,	freedom,
territorial integrity and Islamic character of Afghanistan. The Mujahideen of. Afghanistan are one of the two real parties to the present conflict, the other being the Soviet invaders. Being the sole representative of the people of Afghanistan, the Mujahideen will not accept any solution short of the total expulsion of Soviet forces from Afghanistan and restoration of our complete freedom. Until the realization of these goals we will never lay down our arms. Our nation has nothing to talk about with the Soviet Union other than the withdrawal of their forces from Afghanistan.
2.	With the real parties to the Afghanistan crisis being the Mujahideen and the Soviet aggressors, the Mujahideen are engaged in the defense and liberation of every inch of their country and have lost tens of hundreds of lives to that end.
3.	Neither the puppet government of Babrak Karmal nor the
governments of Pakistan and Iran are real parties to the conflict. Babrak is no more than a Soviet puppet. Whereas Pakistan and Iran are affected by the conflict, they are not actual parties involved in the conflict.
4.	A political solution to the Afghanistan crisis depends on the contention of the actual parties to the conflict. Disregarding their views would further complicate the whole issue.
5.	While recognizing that it is the right of any state to discuss its own issues and problems in whatever way it wishes and appreciating all efforts towards the reduction of tension and danger of war wherever it be, we would like to declare that nobody except the official representatives of the Mujahideen can represent our nation in any international forum. We would never accept representation of any one else in our place and vould never allow Afghanistan to become another Vietnam, freed of one superpower only to become the slave of another.
6.	We earnestly hope that all of our friends and the free world would assist our valient nation led by the Mujahideen, to speak for its cause and its people in the international community.
7.	We started on our struggle, the Jihad for a free, independent and Islamic Afghanistan. We believe that Islam is the real source of our strength and the sole guarantor of our progress and national well-being and can meet all of our moral and material needs.
8.	The only motto' of the Muja- ' hideen and the Afghan nation whom they represent, is the establishment of an Islamic Order in both the spheres of the individual and society.
i
14
i
The Mujahideen Monthly