P E R I O D I CA
ISLAMICA
Editor-in-cheif «Dr. Munawar A. Anees Consulting Editor IZafar Abbas Malik ( Mamie Aita foundation. London)
Dear Editor:
*
This refers to a contents indexing arrangement between periodica Islamica and The Mujahideen.
In order to augment current awareness about your publications, periodica Islamica undertakes to reproduce, in its quarterly issues, tables of contents as they appear in your above cited journal. For representing your material in its original format, it is our policy not to perform any editing, except where changes become absolutely necessary. In any event, only accessory items and graphics, if any, are deleted from the list.
It is my pleasure to enclose herewith a gratis copy of periodica Islamica for your records. Please refer to the “periodical Title List” to check on the placement of your material. I hope you would like the prominece accorded to your journal. Kindly verify your mailing addresses as it appears under the “Publishers Address List” and notify me of any changes.
It is our belief that periodica Islamica offers you a unique opportunity to reach a worldwide readership. I am confident that the current awareness brought about by periodica Islamica would help in improving the market potential of your publications.
As a token of our appreciation for your kind cooperation, we have specially designed a printing mat for you. Enclosed please find a positive film for the same. Please place it in every issue of your jounal. This should identify that your publication is indexed by periodica Islamica.
Finally, I would like to confirm that you would continue to receive a gratis copy of Peiodica Islamica irrespective of the indexing status of vour journal: Please check vour mailing list to ensure that we continue to recive vour cited journal.
Oncec again, my sincere thanks to you for giving periodica Islamica an opportunity to serve you.
^ Berita Publishing
22 Jalan Liku, 59100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Tel: (+60-3) 282-5286 Fax: (+60-3) 282-1605
Sincerely,

/ * Dr. Munawar A. Anees
1