In the course of these 10 days of resistance seven helicopters and one jet were shot down, 79 tanks and APCs were destroyed or damaged and hundreds of the enemy forces were wiped out. An unprecedented number of Mujahideen were also either martyred or wounded.
The Mujahideen under the command of Eng. Hikmatyar numbered thousands of veteran fighters from several provinces and organizations. A unique composition of fighters pursued the fleeing Russian forces into Chawhni, a previously beleagured garrison encircled by thousands of antipersonnel mines planted by the Russians.
While withdrawing, the Russian forces were divided into several contingents, some stationed in Chawhni, some sent back to Logar via Gardiz, and some with rein forcements sent on a similar onslaught to Khost division.
The back-tracking forces were waylaid at several points in Gardiz by the Mujahicjeen of Shaheed Rahii i Fronts who also inflicted heavy losses on the enemy.
However, those Russians sent to Khost with reinforcements were busy in a savage campaign against the Mujahideen and the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami and those of Mulavi Haqanni are putting up a fierce resists- ce.
In the course of this fighting the Russians have suffered heavy losses and a large number of Mujahideen have been martyred, including two Commanders, Mulavi Ahmad Gul and Mulavi Fatehullah (God bless them) . These brave men were assets to the whole Jihad of Afghanistan and their presence in the area was a boost to morale for the
Mujahicjeen of all parties. May their
♦ ** souls rest in peace.	*
The recent series of attacks; in ' the southern province of Afghanistan is therefore nothing more than a futile attempt to disperse with .
A soldier aftei the district was occup.ed
the embarrassment emanating from the Mujahideen attacks on the capital city of Kabul.
As far as the Mujahideen are concerned they will be maintain-
ing their previous tactics of hitting the enemy where it hurts and the dream of closing the border will remain a far cry and whimsical dream for the Russians.
DECLARATION
Continued from Paqe r
and sound tut enjoyetf all the rights and privileges. It is also a fact that the ones who perished did so by killing each other through frationalism and personal feuds.
Furthermore, the Russians are supposedly -worried that in case of their withdrawal the emergent Afghan regime will align itself with the other superpower which is the real cause of Soviet concern. Here, again, we are on record having consistently( expressed and demonstrated our total opposition aligned status of our country.
to the idea of aligning ourselves with any power. Afghanistan's bitter experience of leaning towards the Russi-ans in an adequate lesson not to repeat the same mistake-viza-viz another power. We shall have a non-aligned policy. We reiterate, once again, that free Afghanistan will not be used as a military base of any power and will not pose danger to any state. We shall maintain normal friendly relations with all the countries which have no colonial designs in the region and which do not interfere in the independence and non-
i
28
The Mujahideen Monthly