September on Paktika and Ghazni provinces which resulted in the deaths of hundreds of innocent people and made thousands of others homeless.
Geneva-lV and V saw mass killings in Qandahar, Urozgan and Laghman provinces. The talks were covered hour by hour by the world media but the genocide was reported one month later by the Pakistan press and almost a year later by the world press after the UN report of 1985.
Geneva-VI was held against the background of another September offensive, this time concentrated in Paktia, Kunar, Logar, Ghazni and Wardak provinces. On August 28, while the delegates were sitting comfortably in Geneva negotiating the issue, four divisions of Russian-Afghan troops, well
equipped with sophisticated arms, were rampaging through Paktia province, killing people and animals burning farms and forests, and destroying villages.
Now once again the talks are about to begin. The seventh round of negotiations will open with trips by Mr. Cordovezto Teheran, Kabul and Islamabad.
The Russians have already started intensifying their brutality with offensives in Nengrahar and Paktia provinces.
So far the Kremlin has found it easy to continue the genocide in Afghanistan while the talks are being held; they have no ameliorating effect on conditions in our country.
We are witness that the Kremlin has not shown any sign of leaving Afghistan despite calls for
he withdrawal of Russian troops Dy 122 countries in the latest UN General Assembly; the Non-Aligned Movement fNAMV, the Organisation of Islamic Conferene fOICV, and many individual countries.
Recently representatives of the Communist parties in Japan, Italy and Sweden, who attended the 27 th Soviet Communist Party Congress, asked the Kremlin to recall its troops.
It would help the Afghans, and those who share their suffering, if the UN instead of wasting its time by imposing the illegal Russian puppet regime on the Afghans, would launch an international campaign requesting its member countries to politically support the Afghan Mujahideen.
In this way the UN would be among those to the fore in championing the rights of the oppressed.
The Mujahideen Monthly
7