would constitute additional burden tomorrow. In securing Soviet military aid he remained a professed Socialist and in winning the affection of the Gulf states, he raised the banner of Arabism. But to merit support from Washington and other Western capitals he proved himself a savage ruler...
“when the Soviet Union began expanding its influence...in the 1960s and70..”concedesMichael Schatzaberg of the Woodrow Wilson Center for scholars...’’support for brutal right wing dictators were an absolute necessity in the cold war....” But after the termination of the cold war and the collapse of the Eastern block, Western policy of Communist containment was restructured and substituted with a new strategy called encirclement of the so-called Islamic fundamentalism. The support of Ba’athist dictatorship in the region became therefore an obligation in the West and Saddam Hussian got the mandate he needed for destroying all oppositions in the country. In the overall fulfillment of this design, he used his parly ideology to the fullest advantage and manipulated well the stormy political tides at home.
The first thing he tried to exploit was the doctrine of his party. Ba’athism the official state religion of Iraq and the ideological wing of Saddam’s authoritarianism, has never won the supportof the people itclaims to salvage through out its history. The Christian activist Marshal Aflaq who founded the Ba’athist party did so not out of any solid intellectual reasoning but based his theories merely on simple sentiment of Arab nationalism and rhetoric programmes that are common where ever there is a socialist inclination. The major goal was not to construct an enduring socio-political system in the regime rather the main objective was to break the monolithic character of Muslim Middle East by replacing Islamic concept of universal brotherhood with a parochial racist ideology...”The idea of an Arab nation..” Writes Edward Mortimer and Micheal Field of the Financial Times....distinct from the wider
I The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991	■
community of Muslim believers seems to have originated among Christian minority in Syria. It has remained popular among Arabic speaking Christians because it offers them, at least in theory, the chance to escape from their m inority statue and play a role in the affairs of their country or countries....”
Saddam Hussain in view of his astute ideosyncrasy could not be deterred by the philosophical deficiency in Afiaq’s doctrinal exposition. The former therefore supplemented the intrinsic ideological weakness of Ba’athist party with the political accomplishment of Jamal Nasecr’sdynamic leadership. Pan Arabism reached its maturity in Cairo in the late fifties and early sixties when Arab Israeli hostilities seemed to be at their peak, and theThird World countries were either fighting for their sovereignties or trying relentlessly to protect their hard-won independence. Here too Egypt scored some points by being one of the founding members of non-Aligment movement.
The performances of this movement after taking off are a different story entirely, but the new Arab nationalist movementundcr Jamal Abdul Nasecr believed in (i) the necessity of fighting Israel by sticking to Arab racism as the Jews held-on to Zionism, (ii) The necessity of an Arab Unity in challenging all the foreign imperialists in the Middle East (iii) and the establishmentof a progressive strong leadership or revolutionary dictatorship that could lead the whole region in the struggle and (iv) The eventual creation of ultra-modern Arab empire from Gibraltar in the west to Basrah in the cast and from Aleppo in the north to Aden in the south.
The authors of the first two objectives are unkind to themselves by exhibiting their complete ignorance of the very issues at sake. They were surely not clear as to the differences between Semitism and Judaism on one hand, and anii-semitism and imperialism on the other. They should have understood first
13 ■■■HH
why Arabism as a racist doctrine could never face Zionism which though racist has since been acting as the imperialists bul-work. It is true that the population of the Middle East today is made up of Arabs who are themselves Semitic. Judaism, though taught in Hebrew language is a religion by definition and not a tribe by exposition. The wanted enemyof the Pan-Arab nationalists ma’ not be anti-semitic to qualify him for th s name imperialist Similarly, Zionism as a creed is a man-made ideology that perverts the true message of Judaism for socio-political hegemony
Zionism therefore has a “racist god” who had long chosen Israel “as a blessed flock” and condemned others even before birth as “heathen lots” worthy of extermination or subjugation. Zionist philosophy therefore believes the world is for a single race among diverse nations of mankind. This“chosen race” must whether by “fair of foul” rule and humiliate others for the assumed innate inferiorities of the latter.
In the Zionist conception of life and practical performances on sociopolitical stage, no rule, no law, no man, no morals no treaties..."should therefore be observed when dealing with other nations, and nothing could makeaZionist equal to a non-Jew. They, as a result, do enjoy very much the role of destabilizing the entire globe so as to live in a fallacious, peaceful state of mind. On the contrary Arabism without Islam is an empty shell and with it an ideological contradiction.
Arabism lacks clear doctrinal perceptions, meaningful historical inspirations, and solid socio-political foundation. The Arabs were a nonentity before Islam and would remain so, in as much as they abandon their only path to greatness. The intellectual contribution of the early Muslims (Arabs and non-Arabs alike) to human progress in all fields did not spring from pre-Islam ic Arab Jahiliyyah but from the unvcrsal Message of the Holy Quran.
Looking at the third objective