
*The Mujahideen, October /November, 1991
: Page 14

I Necessity of Change
Crime is a chain of endless manifestations. But our social circumstances have made more converts in recent years than crime itself could muster in many centuries. The world would not have been infested by such large multitudes of culprits if the socio-political order had long been corrected. Nobody wants to be bom outside wedlock, and all sane men will prefer sleeping outside the goal. Every man wants peace but men at the top today are too selfish. If people below could see the gravity of the crimes perpetrated by those above, humanity would have demanded a change since a long time.
To prevent such a drastic transformation and a disastrous outcome, our so-called superpowers devise a diversionary artifice of misrepresenting the issues at stake. Men fightiflg for truth are labelled terrorists. Revolutionaries are called renegades, and dedication is named fanaticism. Black is shown as white. Green exhibited as red and falsehood becomes the basis of propaganda. Thus many become compounded. Majority thinks it is the situation that must change itself and not man bettering his lot. Allah Says:-
“They appointfor Allah rivals to mislead (others) from His path. Say, gratify (Yourselves) for a while, your return is to the fire.” (Ibrahim: 14:30)
* *'
But whatever we say, the state of our world is a reality for all to see. With many non-believers around,the world is almost gone, while the Hereafter is.yet to be lost. To gain in the coming life, the present world must be used. Man must be rehabilitated here, in this life to plan and work for his Hereafter. Islam does not say get the first ahd miss the other, nor vice-versa.but teaches that both worlds are created for the purpose of man alone. Why should man deny himself what none will use beside him?
/
Therefore, the situation must be changed for the better. This act of transforming the world is, as human beings, a right, as Muslims a duty and as Mujahids, a demonstration of total servitude to Allah, the Most High.
For man to live pleasantly on this globe and happily in the Hereafter he has some duties to perform. towards himself, society and universe. Admission of having such responsibilities is fundamental in the Universal Islamic Message. To shirk obligations, deny liabilities and put-off incumbent sociological demands is incompatible with Islamic teachings. Allah the Glorious says:-
uBut he does not accept (the truth), Nor observes (devotional) prayers. Rather he rejects (all obligations) and glides away (on earth heedlessly), Thereafter proceeds to his people insolently. Woe on you (O, men) and woe. Woe betide you and more. Does man think he’s to be left alone (Without any responsibility whatsoever)? was he not a drop of liquid from a sperm discharged. Later became a suspended congealed matter. From which He created and fashioned (him) Then made out pairs -males and females .. is that (Creator) not capable of resuscitating the dead” (Al-Qiyamah 75: 31-40).
This is of course a divine description of gross human irresponsibility. Spiritually he refuses to attest to truth and rationally he rejects all obligations. He abhors salat, refuses Zakat and neglects other compulsory duties. In the end, he goes about stupidly and arrogantly. Boasting of mundane achievements and extoling human materialistic potentialities. While very much forgetful of natural limitations and his own biological origin. Woe on such and many of that.
M
Is there any effect without a cause? Would man too have himself becoming a being, without a concerted discharge? The world is founded on responsibilities. Why is man so dishonest and pretensions? Why is he so unreliable and unwilling to reform? Man must better his scociety with his own hands. Muslims should stand up to their obligation of stabilizing the globe and purging it of profanity and oppression. And it is the duty of Mujahids through out the world to work towards establishment of the Divine Will and meeting Him as martyrs. This should ( be our supreme goal in life. Are we prepared to lay the foundation of a just World for our children to complete th£ structure of a new global order in Sha Allah.?! m Please contemplate.
WM