in liberty and freedom stand honestly and selflessly by the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, who are defending each span of their soil by the blood of tens and hundres of their martyrs and resolutely support the Mujahideen, thenceforth with the intensification of internal resistance and enhancement of external pressure, the Russians would be forced to pull their savage forces out of Afghanistan.
"This would not only make the Russians desist from the repetition of their crimes elsewhere, but would also encourage the oppressed and enslaved nations of the world who are struggling for their independence from the neo-colonial powers not to think that they are alone and would further strengthen their belief in the definite defeat of the aggressors," he said.
"As far as the Mujahid people of Afghanistan are concerned they would never surrender and would never lay down their arms until the complete liberation of their motherland.
"The Russians seeing the vanity of the results of their aggressiion have now realised that the permanent occupation of this martyr-
\ 24
Hekmatyar with H.E. Di Muhathn Mohammad, the Prime Minister ot Malaysia.
dom-loving nation is impossible for them. And therefore there would be no way out of the guagmire in Afghanistan for them other than their complete and unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan.
'We believe in the definite success of the Islamic revolution of Afghanistan and are sure that the Almighty Allah will Himself take the revenge of the blood of our martyrs that have been spilled at the filthy hands of the Russian forces.
"Long live the solidarity of • the Muslim Ummah. Victorious be the Jihad of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan and. long live the friendship of the two nations of Malaysia and Afghanistan."
As part of the opening ceremony Eng. Hekmatyar hoisted the flag of the Mujahideen. The ceremony vyas attended by the Foreign Minister, Rittauddin Ahmad, the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Ibrahim, and the Deputy Foreign Minister, Shaikh Qader Shaikh Fazil. A large number of Arnba-, ssadors and diplomats from Muslim *' countries and other friendly nations, supporters and journalists were also present.
During his five day stay in
t
Malaysia the Amir paid courtesy calls on the Prime Minister of Malaysia, His Excellency Dr. Muha-thir Mohammad, and the Deputy Prime Minister, His Excellency
Sayed Hi
Commander Sayed Hami-jj dullah who led the successful j: raid on Dashti Abdan Base jj recently visited Peshawar and Si/r jj Gul Speen took the oppor-jj tunity to talk to him about conditions in Kunduz province.
ii When Commander Sayed Hami-ii dullah visited me at the office of ii Hezb-i-lslami he was accompanied ii by his elder brother, Qari Aslam, ii and two other Mujahideen.
Shaking hands, his elder brother ii expressed his pleasure at seeing me ••	because we have been friends
I:	since we first met in the days of
the former President of Afghanistan, ii the late Mohammad Daud, who ii was overthrown in a coup by his ii marxist aides.
ii Sayed Hamidullah was watching ii me intently a little nervous I ii suspected about being interviewed.
The Mujahideen Monthly