of Eastern Europe. Gorbachev did not lead the Soviets to a new policy, the Afghan Jihad did.
The West has mistaken this decline of Communism as their own doing. They feel sure they have been declared "the winner", but they cannot see the end of the race. Their materialistic economy has no future, their moral fiber is torn by divorce and abortion, and their health is threatened by the spectres of drugs and the epidemic of AIDS.
We must continue to struggle against anti-lslamic forces, whether they be from the Wast or the East. We must work towards a model Islamic society showing tolerance towards others, moderation in our own lives, and a firm hold on the tenets of Allah.
Q. Before the Soviets invaded Afghanistan, the Amin regime was in a state of decline due to the combined efforts of our Mujahideen. However, even at that time, there was no agreement on the choice of one leader. We are still facing this problem of choosing a leader. What is your evaluation?
Arts. I am hopeful that, just as we have overcome the most dangerous and difficult periods of the Jihad in the past, so this problem of leadership will also be solved. We are not the only group who has faced this problem; every revolution naturally has passed through this stage. My judgment from the current situation is that, although the number of parties has increased, proportional to this increase, the issue of unity of leadership has become easier and less complicated.
First of all, it is clear that the experience and maturity of organization currently possessed by the parties is superior to the raw youth of our organizations at the time of Amin. If at that time we had succeeded, indeed our problems would have been greater than now. Al-hamdulillah, now, from the point of view of organization and experienced and trained personnel, and from the point of view of our roots inside the country and among the military, we are in a better position and we are better prepared today than ever before to establish an Islamic system in Afghanistan.
In the past, we faced a vacuum of leadership, but today, alhamdulillah, this vacuum has been filled.
Today we have leadership at every level, able to lead a village, a community, a city, a tribe, a province, or the nation as a whole.
In the past, when, choosing a leader we also faced an information gap. The people of the nation could not choose because they did not know the choice; the Islamic leadership had not clearly emerged. Through the years of our struggle, as the Jihad parties have become stronger and stronger, the people of our nation have become aware of the existence of good Islamic leaders at every level and have been able to gather detailed information about them.
The problem today is that, although we have many leaders, the people of our nation have been deprived of leadership because they do not have an elected leader. The issue of and election between a few leaders is a simple matter and solvable! As soon as we give the nation a chance for elections, the problem will be solved.
In the past, insisting on elections would have been wrong because the leaders were not ready and the people were not informed. Today, though, we have organized Islamic parties and recognized pious leaders, and it is only a matter of giving the people a chance to choose whomever they trust. We believe that all forces loyal to Islam should be working on the issue of elections so that the nation will get a chance to freely choose their leadership.
Q. What are the big obstacles preventing the nation from having an opportunity up until now to choose their leader?
Ans. In my opinion the basic problem is that foreign forces would like to interfere in the affairs of Afghanistan. They want to determine the destiny of our nation themselves. Their interference in our affairs has caused the current problem. It is clear that these forces are not interfering directly, but they have a group of people working for them, and it is through these people that they are interfering in our work of giving the opportunity to our people to elect their leader.
These foreign forces are using the small and weak parties and scaring them from participating in elections. And these parties know themselves, intellectually, that if the issue of elections is left to the nation, their future
as a party will be dark. It is because of this that they are trying to put obstacles in the way of having elections. In my opinion it is due to the interference of the foreigners that the weak parties cannot trust their own people, and these parties are being used against the process of election.
Q. Several days ago Gilani said that the election procedures had been prepared. But now we see that the issue has not been taken seriously. Can you please explain? !
Ans. Unfortunately, up until now, the issue of elections has not been considered a serious issue by some of the parties. We still see some whose entire position on elections is to defer them. They say that, in the winter, elections are not possible, and, as the war is continuing, the elections will upset the war efforts. These same "friends" told us in the summer that elections would cause us to lose valuable days of fighting the Communist regime. What these "friends" are really saying is that there is no season for elections, neither in the winter nor in the summer. And, those who pretend to be worried about the war effort really have no role in the war, not do they care much about the
strung le.^entiy,
more than 240 districts and subdistricts are free, where there is no war, and, in these places, elections should take place. Among the camps of refugees, there is no war; there also elections should take place. In those places where there is war, we can leave them until Afghanistan is totally freed before we hold elections.
In contrast to our "friends" who want to defer elections, the rest of the nation is demanding immediate elections. Thanks be to Allah that the issue of elections is being discussed at every forum. In every part of our nation, the majority of the Mujahideen are for elections and are insisting that elections should take place. Many Islamic parties outside of the Resistance are also recommending elections.
I feel quite certain that those who ate against elections are currently under various pressures to change their views. They are under pressure from within their parties, from the nation, from the Mujahideen, from the refugees, and from some foreign sources. They are especially under pressure because they have no alternative proposal which will convince their party members, the
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990