advisors. On international issue, the Foreign Minister, Shah Mohammad Dost, has been forced to remember by heart any speech written by Foreign Affairs Ministry in Moscow and then recite it in front of people. Noor Mohammad Noor added that none of the Communists were certain about their future and they did not know what the Russians were planning.
According to Mohammad Zarif, the UN representative of the Kabul puppet regime, they are willing to talk with their opposition but not with the mujahideen. This raises the possibility that the Russians might be trying to bring the ex-diplomats and senior administrators of King Zahir Shah and Daoud into the government to protect the Soviet interests in the region. The feeling in Kabul is that the Russians are not afraid of the ex-diplomats and administrators because they are not associateted with the Mujahideen
The Russians tried to win the co-operation of some of the groups probably through former diplomats and aristocrats who had a good record with Moscow but the understanding between the Mjuahi-deen groups was an abstacle that could not be overcome. Recently the mujahideen leaders jointly ruled out in a press conference any negotiation, or compromise without the Mujahideen participation. They oxpressed their commitment to establish an Islamic government in Afghansitan under the Mujahideen leadership.
The Russians are aware of these problems and are working hard to replace Karmal and in choosing a successor they are tring to at least not repeat previous mistakes. Also some of the Muscovites are accusing registered KGB agents in Afghanistan of providing inaccurate and misguiding information to Moscow. Karmal ranks highly among those agents and the
Kremlin wants to teach him a lesson. At the moment it is widely believed that Karmal is counting down, waiting for the day that the Russians move against him.
The Russians have taken into their heads to bring fundamental and careful changes in the Kabul government . They are fed up with their Marxist comrades in Afghanistan and they have put their shoulder to the wheel once again to put the clock back. They will be using the ex-diplomats and others whose understanding of Islam is almost of a marxist or secular orientation.
The Kremlin at this stage is striving to turn to those who are against the establishing of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. For such support they have been in contact with the Afghans of various school of thougt except for the Mujahideen parties, who dashed the Soviet ambitions of a communist or annexed Afghanistan to ground for ever.
The Kremlin has been contacting people of a secular mind such as Marxist outside the TDPA the Afghan Millat, Sitam Milli, Shoala-Jawid (Maoist) and the aristocrats. The Russians are trying to unite these groups against the Mujahideen by giving them some sort of role in the Kabul government.
The possibility of such a front is easy for the Soviet Union because there are several important issues which the Russians and each of these groups have in common. For example: a) their opposition to the idea of Islam as the code of life for the Afghan nation.b) All of them have either served the soviet Union or were paid to help spread a particular Soviet program in Afghanistan.
The preparations for such a front started with the attempted coup of last Novermber. The recent changes in different organs in the kabul administration to give
the appearance that it is not a Communist government but a nationalist-marxist regime, are the beginning of a new strategy by the Kremlin in Afghanistan. The moves prove the ideological defeat of the Soviet Union at the hands of the Mujahideen, equipped with their faith in Allah (S.W.).
The Russians will be trying to unite the different secular parties including the present Marxists in two or three steps, but they will leave no stone unturned to try to crush the present Mujahideen parties and their supporters, both inside and outside Afghanistan. The pause between these steps will be up to the Kremlin but how soon they can bring these secular parties and aristocrats on their side as well as assuring them of the security which will be for them a matter of urqency.
The Russians might be proud of being the 20th century's slave-hunters, but enslaving the Afghan nation for them will be like crying for the moon. As far as the Mujahideen are concrened they are quite familiar with the Kremlin's fickle tactics and know that the Russians are losing ground. They know that Moscow will not be able to bear the loss of men, military hardware and international disgracefulness for a long time.
Finally the Russian s dream of annexing Afghanistan as a new Soviet republic or at least making it a socialist state is drawing to a close. The Russians have been dragging their relations of good neighbourliness, friendship and respect for territorial integrity with the Afghan nation through the mud. They have failed to impose their wishes and policy of exploit-tion and Sovietization on the Afghan people.
The Mujahideen Monthly
13