Brezhnev's Boast of Victory Falls
Russia's invasion of Afghanistan has now entered its seventh year — seven years of fighting which has demonstrated the truth, that despite the word/y might and power of the Kremlin Islam triumphs.
After the Russian forces crossed the Oxus River, the natural boundary between Afghanistan and the Soviet Union, in December 1979 Brezhnev during a visit to New Delhi declared that the "limited contingents" of the Red Army had been sent into Afghanistan at the "invitation" of the Afghan Government.
So far the Russians have offered sundry pretexts for their illegitimate aggression against their tiny, southern neighbour. Once they said Hafizullah Amin called them, then they said they entered Afghanistan in accordance with a treaty they had signed with Taraki in 1978 and lately they have been saying that the PDPA invited them.
There is no doubt that their claims are false and there is also no doubt about the reasons why Moscow invaded Afghanistan — to crush the Muslim resistance and Sovietize the state.
Brezhnev once boasted that the Red Army would end the resistance within three months of the invasion out despite the fact that the Russians have increased the original force from 85,000 men to 230,000; despite the fact that they are using the most advanced weaponry including banned arms such as poisonous gas, napalm, dumdum bullets, cluster bombs, booby traps end barrel bombs, they have not been able to achieve any of their goals in Afghanistan.
After 75 months they are in the same quandary they were in at the beginning of the invasion.
The Russians made the mistake of thinking Afghanistan would be like Czechoslovakia or Hungary and underestimated the strength, faith and patriotism of our people.
As the British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, said it is easy to invade Afghanistan but it is im-
by M. N. Saleem
possible to keep it and the Soviets should have drawn a lesson from the British experience.
Her statement was opportune advice which the Kremlin should have heeded.
Likewise the chairman of Hez i-lslami Gulbudin Hikmatyar has said that the Russians can melt the mountains of Afghanistan but will not be able to conquer the
8
The Mujahideen Monthly