The Mujahideen, Septcuber, 1991
Page 28
Before to say something on the subject, it is imperative to recognize that in philosophy this is the subject that is the most difficult and delicate. The difficulty arose mainly for people who want to solve it with reason alone.
All know that the capacity of human mind is limited while the Being of Allah Almighty has no limits. Rationality and logic agree that limitless cannot be put into limited. To understand this point will help us in understanding all other points. We do not hold that the existence of Allah (Swt) is contrary to rationality. There is difference in contrary to rationality and above rationality. It is one thing to be contrary to rationality and something other to be above nationality.
Human wisdom offers testimony to the reality that according to the law of ‘cause and effect’ nothing can come into existance by itself. The existence of the universe and the greatest order workiong in its every part indicate that there is some one behind all this drama. But the One who controls all the world is so great that it is beyond the vision of the human mind to comprehend Him fully.
Once an atheist asked a saint to prove the existence of God. The saint said to the atheist, “You are sitting on a chair. Is there, to your opinion, any maker of the chair or was it made without a maker”? The atheist said that the chair has certainly a maker and to deny it is madness. On this the saint observed that if to deny the maker of an ordinary chair is madnees then what place a man deserves who does not recognize the maker of the whole universe.
Faqir Ahmad
The same arguments were offered by Hazrat Iamam Abu Hanifa, the great jurisprudent of Islam, to a group of atheists. He asked if they could imagine a boat, full of men, to sail the river waters without a sailor? The atheists replied in negative. To this Imam Abu Hanifa said if this is against reason then what about a complex world without a controller. The atheists understood the point and embraced Islam.
The scholars of Islam hold that the reason for Allah Almighty not seen by us are two. One that He is the nearest. Second that He is the most visible. You cannot see the nearest, for example, you cannot see a paper touching your eye lashes. Similarly, you cannot look at the greatest visibility of the sun. Then how to look and see the one who can create the suns million times bright of the sun of our world. Allah is the nearest to human beings as Qur’an tells us that Allah (Swt) is nearer to you than your jugulac vein. Then how we could see him. As for the greaterst visibility, the nature surrounding us is his phenomenon. That is the reason we can’t see him.
The Qur’an asks man to ponder over the system of the universe. To contemplat over the order working in the inner self of man and the outer nature compels one to recogning the one Who runs all the show. In every leaf of garden, every petal of grass, every blow of wind, every drop of rain, the smallest animal and its every organ, the flow of river the height of hill, the shine of moon, the rays of sun and in the attraction among planets and stars, you will notice a certain purpose and order. Is it all possible without a hidden supreme powqer? When the veil of prejudice is removed, Qur’an tells, the voice of human nature rises from the depths of heart recognizing the existence of Allah (Swt).