The thaw in relations between Iran and the Soviet Union began even before the June 4 death of Imam Khomeini, the Iranian revolutionary Muslim leader of great piety and power who was mourned throughout- the Muslim world. Before his death, Imam Khomeini had sent a letter to Soviet President Gorbachev to tell him of the superiority of a Muslim way of life.
Parwan, his speeches were recorded for the puppet leader Najib who responded to Hekmatyar on Kabul Radio. On another tout, this time in Nangrahar. Hekmatyar narrowly escaped injury in a bomb attack of a Mujahideen base. Throughout the summer, the Kabul regime consistently denied that Hekmatyar was inside Afghanistan, probably fearing that the Kabulis may panic if knew a Mujahideen leader was nearby.
Iran Disappoints Mujahideen
Iran, a former valuable ally to the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, normalized relations with the Soviet Union. From the point of view of the Afghans, normalizing relations with the Soviets, at a time when the Soviets themselves were still firing SCUDS to destroy Afghan villages and still sending $300 million worth of monthly military aid to their puppet to terrorize, maim, and kill the Afghan people, was very disappointing.
Although Gorbachev did not accept Islam, he took this as a signal that Iran may be able to help him with the Muslim revolts in southern USSR and the Afghan War.
Iran had been weakened militarily and economically by their war with Iraq and felt forced to seek assistance from their erstwhile enemies for their reconstruction. Even after the ceasefire with Iraq, the West did not follow through with their promises of ifrvestrrvent aid to Iran, so the then Majlis Speaker Rafsanjani felt forced to turn to Soviet President Gorbachev, and he concluded agreements by the end of June on economic and industrial cooperation worth more than six billion dollars. In return. Soviet President Gorbachev received promises of three billion cubic meters of Iranian natural gas and, even more importantly, promises of Iranian "non-interference".
While the Mujahideen understood what difficult decisions the government had to make, they felt betrayed by their brothers in Iran whose policy was in sharp contrast to that of
another Afghan neighbour, the Chinese, who steadfastly refused to normalize relations with the Soviets until the Afghan conflict was resolved. That Iran seemed to be unable to help negotiate a settlement of the complaints of the Iran-based Mujahideen against the I IGA was another sore point.
Hezb-i-lslami suspends its membership in the liGA
In Peshawar, the Islamic Interim Government of Afghanistan (IIGA) was busily establishing ministries and uniting the programs of the seven parties into the departments of the IIGA. Some ministries were to be established in Kunar and Paktia. Unfortunately, the IIGA did not fulfil its promise in six months to hold elections among the Afghans to choose a more representative assembly which would provide a constitution and a government acceptable to all Afghans. For this reason, on August 24, 1989, the Hezb-i-lslami suspended its activities as part of the IIGA until elections would be held. The purpose of the suspension was to force the IIGA to seriously consider its commitment to hold elections and to put top priority to this project. *
Hekmatyar believes that elections will end the bickering about representation of the Iran-based Mujahideen, will unite the support of the people of Afghanistan, and will provide the world-wide credibility of the government which has so far been lacking.
A Leader Martyred
On November 24, 1989, Sheikh Abdullah Azzam was martyred along with two of his sons when his car was bombed on a main road in Peshawar. The loss of this very highly respected leader who had committed his life to the Afghan Jihad was a shock to everyone who knew him. An example of his commitment occurred the night before his death. In order to settle some grievances between the Jamiat Islami and the Hezbi Islami parties, he had investigated the problem and formed a just solution. He had the signature of one leader and late at night went to seek the signature of the other. When asked why he came so late at night, he said that decisions to bring good to
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
19