The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
seek...’’forgiveness for the old blunders of this part of the world or destroy Kuwait performed and the unjustjoleit -Ba’athism and ruin their future interests took with Iraq against Iran...’’-gWHhe in the whole region?
apology and regrets came about three weeks late. Sheikh Jabar Al-Sabah was by then no more a ruler, at least his kingdom had been reduced to mere province of a bigger Iraqi empire. The financial assets of both countries were announced then to be frozen all over the world. But in reality they remained flowing, enjoying the liquidity of hard currencies in fresh investment programmes by those few hawks that rob humanity to feed Zionism.
Saddam is surely one of them, he appears to have understood the language of terror and violence faster and better than what his imperialist instructors had contemplated. His Ba’athism, though still needed to cause more problems in the zone is now told that it must definitely re-direct its priorities. The ambitions of the tyrant in Baghdad are surely damaging future plans of his god-fathers and exposing Zionism itself to a dangerous mass reprisals which none in the Mafia clique of oppressors could longer tolerate. The foreign guardians of Ba’athism are getting confused. Do they allow Saddam Hussain to threaten their own domination
Even going by the loop-sided international ethics of today, Baghdad invasion of Iran was a naked aggression which if had been condemned earlier would have saved the world the last ordeal in Kuwait. The so-called vanguards of freedom and champions of liberty did not only condone such a blatant violation of accepted rules of neighborliness and an open negation of international treaties between two countries, but were for all practical purposes the real brain behind this global disaster. That was infact the first real comprehensive rehearsal Saddam underwent in the theater of dramatic belligerency. Here he knew how easy to get away with crimes of aggression if you have the “right guys” behind you. Since then he had never taken any international law, or pledge, nor agreement or ethics very seriously. But who has the moral courage today to blame Baghdad which is just starting the long journey of regional expansionism. Israel the illegitimate child of Western Democracy had been on colossal aggressive adventures three decades before Iraq invaded Iran and still at it today. Nobody cried foul, the heaven
has not fallen, and may be it will never in our own time against the present oppressive global order.
This was not a case of I international appeasement, rather, of r conspiratorial encouragement which was L faintly screened by sporadic Non-M Aligned movement plea for peaceful I settlement of the first Gulf crises and I UNO ceremonious call for a cease-fire. I It was of course a great paradox that the ■ “fire’ did not cease because the * aggression was going on, and peace itself never settled because major donors of the UNO were involved. Baghdad understood this very well and could see the gates of tyranny still wide opened. Saddam Hussain knew that he had the bestopportunities to strengthen his shaky power base project the party manifesto as sacred guiding principles of the state and establish himself as the life president of the nation. He was sure also that no
—	matter the atrocities, if the cordial
—	relationship with the major powers remained unaffected, nothing else to fear. From here onwards he turned first against all oppositions at home using all methods of brutality and suppression in forming and perfecting his present police-state. Nobody raised an eyebrow, (as we shall Insha Allah see later on) and the world took it to be internal problems or a political structural adjustment, except few lines of distorted editorial comments.
Saddam Hussain as a politician is a fanatical pragmatist who knows properly his own limitations and hates to chew more than he can swallow. As a Ba’athist he’s treacherous by all moral standards and he is strangely very successful in getting the best out of an ally now, to make him an arch enemy tomorrow. As a soldier he is a tactician and strategist who is always many steps ahead of the smartest foe. Saddam’s plan are always well contemplated before ha..dand totally followed afterwards. In defeating oppositions at home, he employed all these traces in a swoop. He got the best of his bosom friends in preparing for a future battle against them and destroyed those adversaries presendy facing him because he thought that they