the complete siege of Spin Buldak garrison
About 1450 Mujahideen started Spin Buldak clean up operation by attacking the security post during the second week of July last After 22 days struggle the Mujahideen destroyed nine tanks, ten trucks and three radar installations besides killing of 200 troops including Kabul malitia. In the operation 32 Mujahids lost their lives and 73 other injured. The first phase of the operation completed by severely damaging the security posts and forcing the Kabul troops for
confining themselves to the garrison After ten days break the Mujahideen revised their strategy and constructed new bunkers besides sufficient supplies to meet the new offensive. During this period the Kabul administration tried to mount pressure on the Mujahideen who were determined for capturing Spin Buldak
It was August 5, when the Mujahideen were narrowing the security belt surrounding the the Spin Buldak garrison from three sides The Kabul administration had established strong base on the hill top In the back side of Spin Buldak fort where long range heavy 130-MM guns were installed The target of the Mujahideen was malitia headquarter which hindered the siege of Spin Buldak Consentrating on Spin Buldak the Mujahideen were able to take positions near malitia headquarter on the evening of August 8. Just before the dawn next morning the Mujahideen prayed to Allah Almighty for victory for Shahadat (Martyrdom) and attacked the malitia headquarter. After three hours fierce fighting the Mujahideen were able in capturing the headquarter where the enemy fled away leaving behind several dead bodies and lot of ammunition Now the Mujahideen route was safe till the security posts of Hood, five kilometre west of captured
malitia headquarter. The Mujahideen	commanders
without waisting the time advanced towards Hood and reached the mountain without suffering any loss. On August 9, the Mujahideen wiped out a strong base of Kabul regime but they wore facing stiff resistance from the security posts on the right side of Qandahar highway.
The Mujahideen hit the security posts by rockets and mortars but they were not able to capture the post which were surrounded by rocks, At last the Mujahideen thrashed the enemy after attacking from other side and forced the Kabul troops for surrender.
They seized heavy arms and captured several troops. Now Spin Buldak garrison was under complete siege of Mujahideen, who were controlling the Qandahar highway upto Takhta Pul. a Soviet garrison, 30 kilometres from Spin Buldak. All the routes leading towards Spin Buldak were closed confining
Militia headquartes of Esmat Muslim, 20 Km. from pakistan border. Now under the control of Mujahideen.
The Mujahideen Monthly
20
November 1988