The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Famine kills 25 in Northwest of Afghanistan
tiy Hauled
Reports of eyewitnesses suggest as many as 25 persons were killed as a result of famine and disease in Faryab province in northwestern Afghanistan, in February 1990.
To investigate this news, RACA interviewed two residents of Faryab province who had recently arrived in Peshawar. Following is the text of information which these two persons, Br. Habibullah s/o Jan Merza and Br. Soufi Afzal s/o Khaleqdad, who are the residents of Qara-E village of Almar (Qaisar) district of Faryab province, could give:
They said one week before setting out for Peshawar they heard in their village that 25 members of five families had died in Yangi Qal ’ah village of the Qaisar district because they had consumed Kunjara, an animal food, due to the extreme shortage of human food.
In many parts of Afghanistan people usually extract sesame, mustard, flax and cottonseed oil and use it for cooking. The scum of sesame is called Kunjara (oilcake) which serves as the main food for animals and cows in particular. Feeding the cows with a large quantity of oilcakes causes swelling in their bellies, which can easily result in death. Oilcake is not for human use, but people of the area, due to the shortage of wheat and barley, make a mixed porridge-like food which consists of 1/3 of oilcake and 2/3 of wheat/barley flour. This mixture is eaten just to avoid starvation. But when the aforementioned proportion is changed and oilcake exceeds 1/3 of the mixture, it becomes fatal. After eating such a food, the belly

begins swelling and death results.
The main reason for this famine, apart from draught, is that the province has been suffering from wheat blight and locusts. The harvest had been decimated by locusts and by the blight, caused by an insect called Kafashak or the sun pest ( a weevil-like insect). So
far no technical effort has been carried out to combat these pests, and the area has fallen subject to rapid and uncontrollable devastation.
Habibullah and Soufi Afzal maintained that three years ago locust and Kafashak attacked the Russian-Held Tajikistan, and as a result of the Russian “effort” against these pests they moved to the neighboring Afghan province of Faryab. Since that time people of the region have not been able to raise their crops.
Referring to the severity the infestation by these two pests, Br.
Habibullah and Br. Afzal said that under each stone and lump of earth one could easily collect three to four kilograms of locust and Kafashak.
Relating one of the initiatives taken by the Mujahideen to combat this insect invasion, they said that Arbab Hafizullah, Mujahideen Commander-in-Chief of Almar District, declared that he was ready to pay Afs.\4,000 in exchange for each Sayr (equivalent to 7 kilograms) of locust and Kafashak. Then the Mujahideen dug some deep wells, and so far eight wells have been filled in with eggs and Kafashak.
Br. Saleh Muhammad, Almar Mujahideen’s representative in Peshawar, said that he himself had witnessed three persons who collected
eggs and Kafashak, and without washing
their hands had taken their meal, were poisoned and instantly died on the spot.
Arbab Hafizullah also reserved
130.000	Sayrs of wheat in a depot, of which he had so far distributed some
70.000	sayrs among the people on debt. “Under the existing conditions neither can the people afford to purchase wheat or barley, nor do the Mujahideen have anything in their reserves or depots,” Bro. Saleh remarked.
During the past three years merchants of the area usually brought grain from Mazar-e-Sharif of Balkh Continued on page 47
Page 44