of American-Palestinian negotiation and dialogue. It had been proved that the PLO had violated all pledges made by Yasser Arafat in 1988 by renewing acts of terrorism, which have been the only effective weapon known to the PLO for 26 years. An example of such cases was the PLO “terrorist” strike on the 10th day of Yar on Israeli beaches.
As Tel-Aviv was striving to build trust between Jews and Arabs, neighboring states were bent on destroying all such possibilities. Saddam Hussain, as an illustration cited in the beginning of the conference, had promised to ravage half of the present geographical territory of Israel. Other Arab leaders wanted to destroy the entire state of Israel and the Arab world as a whole vehemently opposes the on-going Jewish emigrations from the Soviet Union and other places where Jewish persecution has reached its peak, to the state of Israel. On the first of Teshr in 1989, all Arab states beside Egypt voted in adramatic demand for the expulsion of Israel form the UNO. The leaders of the Arab hardliners on this international platform were Saudi Arabia and Kuwait which have proved themselves relentless in their struggle against Israel.
For a lasting solution, the ABAC suggested that the United States should adopt the following principles in their quest for Middle East regional peace.
1.	A stronger and more committed American guarantee for Israeli security and frontiers should be taken as permanent official policy. There is an urgent need also to draw
■ The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991	I
military. The sketching out of an American defence zone by Washington in the region would likewise be of immense value.
2.	America should oppose any international conference on the Middle East so long as there is a possibility of a pre-local negotiation directly between all opposing parties in the region. In the same vein, the participation of the U.S.S.R. in any peace initiative must be subjected to unconditional Soviet recognition of the state of Israel, establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, and non-abrogation of Jewish emigration rights from theU.S.S.R. to Israel.
3.	The United States of America should herself encourage democratic changes in the Middle East in general and in the occupied territories of Judea, Samara, and the Gaza strips in particular. The importance of this, according to the ABAC document, was the certain evolution of democratic Arab leaders who would be more than willing to negotiate directly with the State of Israel. The PLO should be prevented from influencing this political program by its known terrorist and intimidation strategies.
4.	The ABAC therefore called on the U.S. to officially condemn PLO terrorist activities such as the unprovoked attack on Israeli beaches. Similarly, the United States of America should demand the expulsion of Abu Abbass from the executive committee of the PLO. Any further negotiation with this organization by the U.S. must be based on earlier pledges by Yasser Arafat to stop
18 ■■■■■
dialogue between the state of Israel and its neighboring Arab countries.
6.	There should be no imposed solutions from any side, especially from outside and local radical groups. The U.S. should strive towards creating a political climate that would lead to positive results and all concerned parties must give their pledges to accept the outcome of such negotiations.
7.	The U.S. should, according to the ABAC document, maintain strictly its earlier stand of opposing the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on Israeli borders.
8.	Washington should officially condemn PLO terrorism against moderate Palestinians living inside and outside of the occupied lands who believed in peaceful solutions rather than armed struggle.
9.	The document also mentioned that the U.S. must never succumb to the demand of accepting the PLO as a competent and serious partner in any peace initiative.
ft FOREIGN AID J
Economic and military aid by the United States tolsrael was meant no doubt to fulfill American foreign goals especially in the Middle East and to help Israel in serving as a bulwark against any possible Arab hostility in the future. Current American economic, financial and military aid tolsrael per a billion dollars has been calculated to be enough to create new jobs for 60,000 unemployed Americans.
The reversal of Soviet influence in theMiddle East has not in the least guaranteed total American interest since the West still felt Israel would be the most useful weapon-against the increasing formidable activities of Muslim fundamentalists and other paramilitary Islamic organizations.
The ABAC wanted the fulfillment of the following obligations by the U.S. government:
a)	A continuation of the existing American 3 billion dollar annual aid to Israel as a mere grant.
American latest sales to Isreal
a pragmatic picture of the consequences that	pakstWan stnlgg]e.
would follow the present progressive cooperations between the Jordanian and Iraqi
5.	Initiating a non-conditional