the USSR joined hands against the Mujahideen, and through conspiracies they desperately try to prevent the establishment of a government in Afghanistan by the Mujahideen.
Moscow deals mildly with the anti-Communist movements in Eastern Europe, approves of the ensuing changes there and avoids the use of force to reverse those changes in her satellite states. But the Kremlin does not apply the same policy vis-a-vis Afghanistan. The USSR still supports the puppet regime by supplying it with the most deadly weapons in her arsenal. The flow of SCUD missiles, the latest model of bombers and huge amounts of arms and ammunition continue without any let or hindrance and thus cause the continuation of the bloody war in our country. The Soviet-imposed war in our country leads to the killing of hundreds of innocent Afghans and tens of villages are razed to the ground by the wanton use of heavy artillery and inhumane bombing.
The Russians are not prepared to accept the same reforms even in the occupied Islamic Republics as they ac-
cepted in Eastern Europe. The regime of Gorbachev sends the army to Azerbaijan,Tajikistan and Uzbekistan to crush the peaceful demonstrations of the Muslims of these republics for the retrieval of their usurped rights. With an iron hand the Soviets break up the ranks of demonstrations by the fire of tanks.
Washington also like Moscow considers the Islamic uprisings against her interests. That is why Washington approves of the Soviet savageries in the Islamic republics and dubs them as inevitable measures. The US assures all support to Moscow in keeping the integrity of her republics. It is this so-called ‘sympathy’ with Moscow and the US collusion with the USSR on the imposition of Zahir Shah on Afghanistan that has revealed the American antagonism against Islam and any Mujahideen government to rightfully replace thepuppet regime.
If it were not for the treacherous Soviet-American plots, the Soviet puppet regime would have already been toppled and a Mujahideen government would have replaced it.
Page 27