Afghanistan and in the very near future they will launch joint attacks on regime military installations throughout the country.
Replying to a question the military chiefs of the seven parties ruled out the political solutiion of the Afghan problem and said that the military victory of Mujahideen was the only viable solution of this problem. They said that Mujahideen never attached any hope to the political solution and stressed on mediamen that instead of searching a political resolution of the problem they should propagate the military victories of Mujahideen. The political solution of the confict, they added, was the plan of the superpowers who are persuing their designs in Afghanistan.
Responding to another question they said that commanders of the nationwide shoora were affi 1 ialed wi th di fferen t political organizations and were fully abiding by the policies of their respective parties.
The commanders said that hall in military aid to the Mujahideen by different countries has not affected the morale of Mujahideen as with the begining of Jihad they wereempty hands while today they have different weapons which they will fully utilise. They said that the future operations of Mujahideen will prove that the military victory of Mujahideen is possible as they were now fully united in the Jihad field.
Commenting over the differences within the fold of Watan party they said that the resignation of the ex-prime minister of Kabul, Sultan Ali Kashtmand who returned to Kabul from self-exile in Russia was a clear proof of the dispondcncy in the party ranks.
When asked to comment over the reported diffrences between Mujahideen commanders in central Afghanistan they debunked it adding dial Mujahideen were fully united on the Jihad front.
The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991	PageO	24
match to his adversaries. This was Hazrat Umar, popularly	not all he did. He was not oblivious
known as Faroooq-e-Azam, was	of the internal management of the
a great companion of the Holy	state. Side by side with outside
prophet (PBUH). As Allah	victories he was laying
Almighty’s, masterpice is Hazrat	foundations of different kinds of
Mohammad (PBUH), so is our	departments to run the country,
prophet’s master piece and that is	Fe was also preoccupied with
Farooq-e-Azam.	making rules and regulations for a
just and efficient judicial system. Umar bin Kliitab loved and	He accomplished this all without
followed the prophet (PBUH).	having a secretariat or even a personal
Therefore he was enlightened in	secretary. In the midst of the
turn and became Farooq-e-Azam,	engagements he would find time to
Now the learned of the east and	patrol the city streets at night. It is
the west eulogize him. Umar bin	evident that he did all things with
Hisham was called Abul Hakam (the	the help of Allah Almighty. He was
wise). As he failed to recognize the	true servant of Allah(SwT). Therefore
greatness of the prophet (PBUH) so	as, a hadith tells, “Allah Almighty
became Abu Jahal (the ignorant)	had become his eyes, ears and
and died as Abu Jahal. We can say	hands. One of the sayings of the
dial he is placed as high as Abu Jahal is	prophet (PBUH) is, Fear the wisdom
placed lowly.	of the faithful. He sees with the
light of Allah (SwT). That was the The vision of the prophet wisdom syed Farooq-e-Azam had (PBUH) made several historical	in abundance he was highly learned
personalities but thecase of Hazrat	and statesman. He had unmatched
Umar was somewhat different. As	understanding of the principles of
he was taller than others so he was our religion, Islam. He was an greater than others. But to know unparalleled mujtahid (one who one s greatness one must be can make new rules in accordance somewhat great himself.	with the basic principles of Islam).
Our prophet Hazarat Mohammad It is very surprising that (PBUH) had great confidence in while confronting the two super hjs power of decision making. powers of the time (Persia and
Egypt), he would direct his army	Syed	Saddiq-e-Akbar
about the details of the battle front	appointed Hazarat Umar Farooq
and still remain hundreds of miles	as his successor in his last time his
from the war front. Thus he defeated	choice proved very correct. The
the mighty powers of the world Muslim Ummah endorsed this albeit his worldly power was no choice with their consent (bai,at).