DID YOU HAVE A PROBLME OVER HOW TO SPEND YOUR FREE TIME?
Every minute of our free time we tried to rest. That suited our commanding officers more relaxed. They could stop thinking about us and drink vodka — drinking was their relaxation. There was no cinema and was no books to read. Once in Kabul, a concert was organised for us. I attended, but without much enthusiasm.
WHO WERE THE PERFORMERS?
The Russian rock band "Blue Guitars". I was expecting to be discharged in a few months and this made me feel desperate. I was terribly envious of the musicians and angry with them. The problem was not their music, but the thought that they would return to Moscow to a peaceful, quiet and wonderful life.
ARE THERE ANY PARTICULAR THINGS THAT YOU WOULD LIKE TO FORGET?
Theie were many such things, but one cannot forget them. We were forced to shoot at peaceful peasants in regions that were not yet occupied by us and where the new regime has not yet been set up. We were given orders to wipe out everything in our way. This was when we were stationed in the southern part of the country. That summer was a nightmare for me. After every new assault by the mujahideen on our bases and warehouses, we were' ordered to carry out punitive operations on any villages which were suspect.
WERETHERE FEQUENT ATTACKS ON SOVIET BASES?
Yes, not only on our bases, but on our civil administration offices. They blew us up and attacked us with our own weapons Sometimes they kidnapped our administrative people and took them hostage.
COULD YOU BE MORE SPECIFIC ABOUT HOW YOU OPERATED AGAINST SUSPECT VILLAGES?
We were ordered to shoot every suspect.AII men were suspect because they were all fit and able to tight. Especially suspect were those who wore the yashmak (veil). Normally only women wear them, but men are also allowed to, so a covered face was considered a ploy to hide the identity and they were shot.
If a suspect village was very small and resisted, we were given orders to kill everyone we could find. Afghan villages are very densely populated. The houses are all attached to each other and the whole village is like a labyrinth built of clay. Houses are single-storey with yards inside. You never know what is around the next corner and you have to shoot first. Before entering a yard or street, you have to deliver a volley of machine-gun fire.
I doubt whether a village can ever recover. The villages which survived were those which had
groups of Mujahideen who resisted fiercely so we were pushed back. After such operations we became completely wild and started looting: Some of us became sadists, we lost our minds. We screamed to raise our morale to justify ourselves. It was some kind of ecstasy when we could not think and were just shooting and shooting.
DO YOU THINK THE MUJAHIDEEN CAN WIN?
They are steel-willed. It is very difficult to break their will, I think they will resist until they are all wiped out. That is why the war in Afghanistan is so murderous.
HOW DO YOU ESTIMATE THE SIZE OF OUR ARMS IN AFGHANISTAN?
I've heard . from the officers that the figure is about 150,000, but a part of the army is not Russian. When we were sent to guard the main road between Kabul and Jalalabad, those who escorted our lorries were Bulgarians.
The Mujahideen Monthly
31