tionally. We belieye in the definite victory of the Jehad of our Muslim nation and have no doubts about it. The situation of Jihad has been, after eight years and eight months, better than any year before. The strong bases and the determination, patience and fortitude of our Mujahideen make us hopeful and sure about the future, and the repeated defeats of the Russians on the battlefield add to our certitude. The disarray of the Khalq and Par-chum parties and the low morale of the enemy forces are pointers that the Russians are bound to vacate Afghanistan. They are disappointed with the occupation of Afghanistan. For the first time they have admitted that they would not like their forces to remain in Afghanistan for a long time. They are dismayed and too tired to continue the war. They consider it as their hell. Najib says the war is hell and hell is the place of sinners.
Yes, war is hell to all those who fight for an untrue cause. But a Mujahid who fights for the superemacy of righteousness and the liberation of his country believes that heaven lies under the shadow of swords. If war is
your he/^ but war is a bridge for a faithful Mujahid to enter paradise. To be sure, the heaven of a Mujahid is under the shadow of swords. Yet war is hell to Najib and his Khalq and Parcham parties. The determination of our Mujahid nation will ultimately remind Gorbachev a question once posed to Mr. Gladstone, a Prime Minister of the Great Britain. Mr. Gladstone was asked how the British army was able to conquer the whole world but could not subdue a few unarmed Afghan tribes. Gladstone replied how to deal with a nation who saw heaven through the barrels of their guns? / hope the Russians will also one day see their defeat in Afghanistan the way Mr. Gladstone had done.
The morning of victory is dose. It is awaiting our patience and fortitude. The morning of victory is close provided ypu and me have patience and fortitude.
We believe that the morning of victory is very dose, we are sure that Allah, glory be to Him, will not nullify the sacrifices of our Mujahid nation. In the hope of a bright future - in the hope of the victory of Islam.
Afghan refugees and Mujahideen's rally in Islamabad on December 27.
TJhe Mujahideen Monthly
12
Jpn - Feb 1987