Anotaly Dobrynin, talking to the American delegate in Kremlin, last November, about the loss of Red Army. Where the Russians confessed that about 26000 ol their soldiers are killed and 65000 wounded.
was to confuse the general public so that they could not distinguish between the Mujahideen and government troops. This gave them an easy access to the Mujahideen hideouts. But this tactic worked only for a short period. In the first few weeks of 1985 the Mujahideen fought desperately to defeat the army. The- same year SU-24 and SU-25 were used against the Muja-hjdeen. But all this could not prevent the Russian casualties which mounted to 12,000. On the other hand 20,000 commandos arrived in three phases ar.d the total number of Russian troops went Uffcto about 200,000.
DIPLOMATIC ONSLAUGHT
At the very outset of 11986 about 20,000 Spitnatz troops bulged up the Russian-Afghan army stationed in different provinces. Heavy bombardment, shelling and then dropping spitnatz arou/td the Mujahideen strongholds were the frantic efforts to wipe out the resistance. Yet the Mujahideen (ought heroically throughout the year and made the Russians kneel down till they cache out with diplomatic manoeuverings to disarm the Mujahideen Karmal was shamefully substituted by another lackey, Dr Najib, and several senior officers were also shifted to give the false impression as if the Russians had realised people's demand and they (Russians) wanted to end ■the Afghan crisis
The Russians well fed their lobbies abroad to propagate about their eagerness for restoration of peace and security in Afghanistan. Another baiting was the withdrawal of 8,000 solders of the anti-aircraft regiments. The Kremlin took this step to abate the world anger in UN General Assembly and also to reduce U S. President. Mr. Reagan, not to raise the Afghan issue at the Reykjavick meeting.
Yet soon after Moscow sent
15.000	troops comprising tank units, artillery and commando brigades. Anyhow the Russian casual ties went upto 14,000, whereas the total in the past seven years is about 63,000. According to the Mujahideen sources in the Ministries of Interior, Defence, and Intelligence (KHAD) about 20,000 of these were killed and the rest were wounded.
CASUALTIES
According to a groups of Americans, who visited Moscow last November to discuss the Afghan issue there they came to know that the number of Russians casualties was much higher. One day during discussion the hosts. Mr. Anatoly Dobrynin and his colleagues, asked the guests (Americans) about the Russian casualties. When told about
13.000	Red soldiers might have been killed, a Russian, who could speak persian with the Iranian accent, said, "No", giving sign with his head to go up. To the surprise of the guests the disclosure was "26,000" killed and "65,000" wounded. It was also divulged at the same meeting that the Soviets considered the Afghan-Soviet War ras^’severe and serious".
Apart from 220,000 Russian troops inside Afghanistan, there are about 50,000 troops along the Af-
ghan-Soviet border on the Soviet soil, which also penetrate in the northern and northwest Afghanistan for certain operations.
With the exception of few units of the Red Army, nearly every unit has served between one and two-year term in Afghanistan All together about 600,000 Russian troops participated in the genocide and devestation of the Afghans and their country. Also Afghanistan is said to be a test-ground for the Soviet Army. The Mujahideen say that the Russians have tried their best against them but in vain. Indeed, they have paid a heavy price for their folly, and they won’t repeat it now
The anti-Breznev tirade by the Soviet Press and by Gorbachev himself is ample proof that the Russians have learned a lot from Brezhnev si mistakes. Now they are in a state of quandary about their southern border. Afghanistan, no doubt, is of vital importance to the Russians interests, but for the Afghans free Afghanistan is above everything. At this stage the Afghans and the free world believe it is not the Soviet agents who have failed to gain support among the people or to get rid of the Islamic resistance, but it is the Russians who have failed to impose their will on the Afghan nation despite their Stupendous might.
The Mujahideen Monthly
15
Jan - Fet> 1987