LETTER TO THE UNITED NATIONS
THE ISLAMIC UNITY OF AFGHAN MUJAHIDEEN
October 24, 1985	Peshawar	Pakistan
The Honourable
Javier Perez de Cuellar
Secretary General
The United Nations, Organization
New York City
Your Excellency:
As you well know, as a consequence of the illegal Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan, 1.1 million of our people have been martyred and 4.5 million of our countrymen have been forced to take refuge in neighbouring countries after their homes and villages were destroyed by Soviet bombing and artillery shellings.
This brutal aggression is continuing with full intensity. Scores of Afghan civilians are still being killed everyday and the exodus of refugees has increased enormously.
Although an absolute majority of United Nations member countries has repeatedly condemned the Soviet invasion of our country, and U.N. resolutions have described the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan as a major threat to peace and tranquility in the region, the Soviet Union has not heeded the will of the majority of United Nations members. Further, the Soviet Union during this period has increased its forces in Afghanistan and intensified its acts of barbarism against civilians in its vain efforts to crush our nation's struggle for freedom.
He are sure you can understand why it appears to us to be the height of hypocrisy for the United Nations Organization to repeatedly condemn Soviet intervention in Afghanistan while at the same time recognizing'the representative Of the regime installed by the Soviet Union as the legitimate representative of the Afghan people. It is surely clear to the overwhelming majority of U.N. members that this delegate does not represent Afghanistan, but only a "puppet" regime of the Soviet Union.
We therefore request that, through your good offices, the United Nations Organization withdraw the credentials of the illegitimate representative of Afghanistan and that the vacated seat be awarded’to the true representatives of the Afghan people, the Islamic Unity of Afghan Mujahideen (Itehadi Islami Mujahideen-i-Afghanistan).
j	:
Most respectfully yours.
/ Gulbudin Hekmatyar, Engineer
Chairman,'Afghan Mujahideen Delegation to the United Nations
, / -The Mujahideen Monthly
9