for the war. First. Russian intervention through which they were able to impose a communist government on our nation and secohd. direct military intervention in support of the regime they had imposed. Both these causes are present even today. Nothing has changed. The same government is there and Soviet troops are also there. We believe the solution is simple. If the Russian troops withdraw from Afghanistan today, peace will return to our country tomorrow. The peace proposals are nothing new. Even in the past such offers were made to all major fighting groups by the government. But our people rejected them, saying that weapons would not be laid down as long as Soviet troops were present in the country. Talk of a coalition government is not a new proposal either. Our people rejected the National Fatherland Front in the past, which was a cosmetic exercise, an attempt to bring in some new faces, comprising non-party members. Replacing Babrak Karmal with Haji Mohammad Chamkani was another such
ploy, to show the world that noncommunists were also included in the government. But our people saw through these ploys and rejected them. The latest peace move is, therefore, nothing new. The Soviets are trying to show the world that they seek a settlement, and that the Mujahideen do not want peace. They are trying to complicate the issue. Rather than make such proposals, they should take the practical step of withdrawing. But they will not do so. They are only trying to deceive our nation and the whole world. Realising that they can't impose a military solution with the current level of troops, they want to prepare the ground for inducting more troops in such a way that they are not accused by the international community of stepping up hostilities. That is why they want the world to believe that they offered peace but the Mujahideen insisted on fighting, forcing them to react. If the Soviets do not withdraw, they will have to bring in more troops. It is simply impossible for them to control the situation
with what they have now. Thus, the peace offer is only a propaganda offensive. That is why we have found it unacceptable
Q. Having rejected the peace proposals, do you seriously believe you can emerge victorious in the armed conflict?
A. We believe we will win the war and make the Russians realise that it is impossible to impose a military solution. We will make them realise that it is impossible to rule Afghanistan forever and impose their puppet regime on the people. The continuation of this long war — eight years and nine months - is proof enough of this. We are determined to continue our struggle and arc optimistic of the outcome. Our January 17 rally also proved this. Just by making one announcement, and that too only two days earlier, we were able to gather three lakh people. Around
1,200,000	of our people live in the area that lies between Bajaur and Miranshah, which means that out of every family of four-odd people, one participated. Some of our people who live at a distance from those areas were unable to attend. We put our decision to continue the struggle before them and asked those in favour to raise their hands. They all did and continued to raise slogans in support of the jihad. We were able to quieten them down only after much persuasion.
Q. How do you view the current situation within Afghanistan?
A. The fighting continues there. The peace proposals have not-chan-ged the situation anywhere in the country. The general situatfon, in my view, is in favour of the Mujabi' deen. In fact, the situation this year is better than in any previous year. The Mujahideen were able to carry out successful operations almost
Tbe Mujahideen Monthly
21
Jan - Feb 1987