The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990	•->>;;

wished. In Shahnawaz Tanai’s press conference these elements persisted on compelling him (Tanai) to confess that he was either a Mujahid or a member of PDPA and thus a Communist.
Strangely enough they don’t restrict themselves to the facts:
a- of his confessing his past misdeeds for the compensation of which he resorted to the uprising,
b- that he is now standing by the Mujahideen,
c- that his support of the HIA’s cause does not imply that there’s a coalition between PDPA and the HIA, but the fact is that he and his comrades-in-arms have joined the HIA in their individual capacities,
d- that he has professed to be a
Muslim,
e- that he fights for the formation of an elected Islamic government, f- that he holds Najib responsible for the prolonging of the war,
g- of his disbelief that restoration of peace and materialization of the will of our nation to establish an elected Islamic government can occur when Najib continues in power,
h- that the main factor behind the failure of their uprising to score an immediate victory was the reinforcement of Gen. Najib’s loyalists by the Russians, a fact condemnable by all the countries of free world.
Having such postures towards this significant event and the forces of the uprising does not display a commitment towards Islam, nor can it be a proof of seriousness and earnestness for defense of the tenets of Islam. In fact such foolish attitudes and deceptive fatuity have always proved harmful for the Muslim Ummah.
Do they not know the Omniscient and All-knowing Allah (SwT), in this regard addresses the Muslims:
“O ye who Believe !
When ye go abroad In the cause of Allah, Investigate carefully,
And say not to any one Who offers you a salutation : “Thou art none of a Believer! ” Coveting the perishable goods Of this life : with Allah Are profits and spoils abundant. Even thus were ye yourselves Before, till Allah conferred On you His favors : therefore Carefully investigate.
For Allah is well aware Of all that ye do.”
(An-Nesa’ 94)
Also He (SwT) says :
“Except those who join A group between whom And you there is a treaty
(Of peace), or those who approach
You with hearts restraining Them from fighting you As well as fighting their own People. If Allah had pleased. He could have given them Power over you, and they Would have fought you: Therefore if they withdraw From you but fight you not. And (instead) send you (Guarantees of) peace, then Allah
Hath opened no way
For you (to war against them).”
(An-Nesa - 90)
These sincere-looking simpletons are in fact loading the enemies’ guns. They want to compel a person who consistently maintains he is a Muslim, to say that he is a member of PDPA. These simpletons instead of taking the matter in the sense of being a manifestation of Mujahideen’sinfluence and contrivance try to prove that the officers are not true converts to Islam. Poor guys, do they not understand whom they are benefitting?
Let our friends know that we are following the Sunnah of the beloved Prophet (pbuh), who declared general amnesty for all those who had repented for their past mistakes, abandoned
Gen.
Zarif
(left)
in
conver-
sation
with
Eng.
Ahmad
Shah
and
Prof.
Sayyaf