M The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990	$
Ans. The repatriation is possible only after the puppet regime is toppled; the war is ended; peace and security are established and an Islamic government is formed in Afghanistan.
If the repatriation is going to take place before the aforesaid conditions are met, then the following points should be taken in view;
a.	All the Mujahid forces should reach a consensus in this regard,
b.	The time for the start of repatriation should be declared by the
Mujahideen,
c.	The tranquility zones should be specified by the Mujahideen,
d.	Necessary security actions should be taken by the Mujahideen for the repatriated,
e.	Joint bodies should be formed to run the affairs of the repatriated.
Without the consensus of the Mujahideen in this regard, neither the Muhajireen are ready to be repatriated, nor it is advisable for them to do so.
Q. When the Mujahideen are approached for their future military plans, they usually complain of shortage in weapons. Now, as the time for Spring Offensive is approaching, what do you have to say in this connection?
Ans. I can say that now we are in a position to achieve our goals withou t using weapons, and we proved it in practice. That is why I declared long time ago that the Kabul regime is doomed to collapse and that a solution to the Afghan problem can be the stoppage of external interferences and arms supplies to Afghanistan, and that the Afghans be left to choose a solution for then problems.
Q. After the army uprising and the Herat bloody drama there are speculations that the Mujahideen have quit the plan for capturing big cities
through attacks. Would you like to comment?
Ans. As far as the HIA is concerned, since a long time, just to avoid victimization of the local residents, we have left the plan for capturing big cities by force. Instead we concentrate on besieging cities, cutting Kabul regime’s supply lines and intensification of pressure on military targets.
Our current strategy is to give chance to the army to topple the regime, and we are trying to conquer the cities from inside.
Now it is a naked fact that the Mujahideen have turned into a power which can take initiative under the various conditions and circumstances. Now it is an accepted fact that the Mujahideen are in possession of various means to overthrow Gen. Najib’s regime.
Q. In your opinion what are the motives behind U.S. ’s recent gestural war against drug abuse and Mujahideen’s alleged involvement in narcotics trafficking?
Ans:	In this regard two
probabilities can be taken into consideration:
1.	The U.S. may be trying to repeat the Panamanian scenario in Afghanistan.
2.	the allegedwar against
narcotics can produce a conducive
opportunity for the U.S. to interfere in other countries internal affairs.
As far as our position regarding drug abuse is concerned, the war against narcotics and drug abuse should be launched in U.S. itself. As long as the mental and physical need for narcotics exists, it is impossible to overcome the drug abuse and narcotics menace.
Just the other day I was listening to [British Prime Minster] Mrs. Thatcher’s speech in this regard. She also stressed on the fact that until the “demand”for narcotics is not eliminated, it was impossible to succeed in combating it.
The technology of producing heroine and other narcotics was introduced by the Europeans and the American in Asia. Key gangs of drug Mafia are led by special Americans and Europeans. They encourage the people of Asia for poppy cultivation.
The people of Asia knew nothing of it, before American and European tourists and death dealers derived heroine from opium.
Drug abuse and addiction is a disease which was brought and spread by Americans and Europeans to Asia. In fact all social and ethical diseases, AIDS a recent one, were brought to Asia by the Westerners and Americans.
Anyone who is sincerely determ ined to combat addiction and drug abuse, should begin the war in Europe and in the United States.
Page 24