The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 21
MAN
REVOLUTION
It is perhaps not an easy task to fore-stall the advent of an impending inevitability. However, the difficulty becomes more pronounced if any attempt is made at comprehending fully the multi-dimentional implications of what appears to many as abstractions but which in reality is the basis of all socio-political associations.... Whether we prefere to accept or opt for the contrary, humanity has all along been and will continue to behave and interact as a unit community. Every member-group of this global nation if put under the same situation is prone to act similarly: if other tilings remain constant.
One basic fact which must be understood is that the natural laws that facilitate the appearance and continuous existence of man on earth compel all communities to react similarly if not wxactly when they arc subjected to the same natural laws and conditions. This is the practical scientific basis of modem humanities or social disciplines which though in professional terminologies appears to be new, and in exposition modem and changing, but in essence ancient, constant and permanent. This is an unpalatable fact before racist ideologies and protangonists of artificial geo-political separatisms. Ncver-the less, it is a common social phenomenom in view of the apparent unsimilar if not completely conflicting locational, cultural and religious backgrounds of various tribes and man-made sovereignties.
Let’s take the case of Afghanistan as an example demonstrating this reality. What has transformed an apparently underveloped and unlettered nation into a community championing, the will of faith plus the modem thoughts of self-determination, freedom and liberty begs for contemplation these they want so that the entire nation could live according to the dictates of their religion.
Following this sequential development, the whole landscape of mountainous terrain has been converted into blazing battle fronts. It is therefore unsurprising that its valleys are no longer passive spectators but vibrant activators of military operations in the ideological struggle for independence and self determination. Fightings are now heatingup for the establishment of Faith and progress.
The Marxist puppet regime ironically came to power through military mutiny, and declared itself a people’s revolution that aimed high at winning back the lost freedom of participation in socio-political administration of Lhe country. But unfortunately these so-called saviours of the masses have been maintaining themselves in office by refusing to bow before the same popular demand for a change. In contrary, they are determined to silent the people by resorting to criminal bloody suppression of “all oppositions. Unsurprisingly, our self-apointed proletariat defenders of the masses and their rights, are now facing a real people’s revolutionary challenge in form of a long and bloddy armed struggle. The people are resolved never to flag in their military resistance which all the more makes the self-imposed and foreign protected regime to be more desperate. It is therefore too natural for the Afghans to be equally persistent and more dynamically dctcrtcrmincd in their struggle against oppression.
In the same vein communism is busy taking its final steps towards the global ideological exit door but the struggle for the establishment of a permanet world of faith, peace and justice will continue. Dictators are today being overthrown one after the other. The lucky ones among them are those who arc wise enough to flee the capital before the final assults of the people’s revolutionary resistance. As for the unrepentant ones; apart from being mercilessly killed as they them selves ruled their countries, most of them were even denied recognizable graves.