»
Historical Review of Moscow's
System of Reserve Puppets in Afghanistan
By Surgul Speen
Soviet influence in Afghanistan has been maintained and protected by a systematic infiltration and control of not only the Communist political groups buJt also the national and aristocratic groups. It is evident that over the past four decades, leaders were chosen in every group while others were kept in reserve for rotation into leadership at a later date. These puppet leaders and - reserves served to protect Moscow’s interests in Afghanistan no matter which group was rising or which.group was falling.
In 1953, Daoud Khan, the cousin of the then King Zahir Shah, became Prime Minister of Afghanistan and the well-woven net of Soviet influence and activity was officially established when military and development accords were signed with the Kremlin. As Soviet influence increased in Afghanistan, the intellectuals, dazed by the Communist propaganda, never once voiced the opinion that close relations with such a greedy expansionist as the Soviet Union might be harmful for the freedom
and self-determination of Afghanistan. Communist promises of "food, clothing, and shelter for all" sounded good to the idealists, and they were blind to the actual experiences in Communist countries where only the elite few experienced material benefits while the rest who demanded their rights were offered bullets for food, a burial shroud for clothing, and the grave or prison for shelter. Throughout the decade from 1953 to 1963, the Soviets wooed both Zahir Shah and Daoud Khan and assured both of them support even when the prime ministership was passed out of the royal family in 1963. Now Zahir Shah was the puppet leader while Daoud was the reserve, but roles would reverse later on.
From 1963 to 1973 was the era of the development of political parties, and the Soviets lost no time in ensuring their political goals in Afghanistan. In January 1965 Taraki established the People's Democratic Party of
Afghanistan, also called Khalq (the People). In 1967, Karmal split off with a faction called the Parcham (the Flag). Both factions recruited civilian and military government employees, were encouraged by the Soviets, and not opposed by the then King Zahir Shah. The idea of two Communist parties fit well into the Soviet design of having puppet leaders and puppet reserves. That each faction worked in a different political area also served the Soviet purposes. The Parcham worked in the cities and among the upper class while the Khalq worked in the countryside.
Other political parties at time were also infiltrated by the Communists. The Afghan Mellat, later renamed the Afghan Social Democratic Party, advocated a greater Pushtoonistan and opposed all Western influences, leaving the door open for Soviet activity. They supported Daoud’s coup d'etat in 1973 and each succeeding coup, as did two other parties Shu’la-yi-Jawed and Setem-i-Milli, both ultra-left splinters from the Parcham faction of the PDPA. Their claims of Maoism did not hide their sympathy with Marxist-Leninist views and, during the era of Jihad against the Soviets, these two groups proved to be the Khad's best agents and terrorists inside and outside of Afghanistan.
The coup of 1973 put the reserve puppet Daoud Khan back into power with the support of the top brass of the Afghan army and its brigades who not only showed no loyalty to Zahir Shah but also no understanding of their duty to protect Afghanistan from the systematic and gradual invasion of the Russians. Zahir Shah was out of Afghanistan during the coup and remained in Rome as a reserve puppet in case he would be needed in the future. Another royal cousin and Zahir's son-in-law Major General Abdul Wali was imprisoned by Daoud for two years but then acquitted of alleged crimes and deported to Rome. Abdul Wali knew the value of Soviet military aid as
he had been commander of the Central Forces from Kabul to Pakistan. If Zahir Shah is too weak or sick to play his role, this royal reserve puppet will be ready.
The Soviets continued to use the recurrent dissatisfaction with the slowness of reforms to fuel each coup and governmental change, pushing the country closer and closer to an outspoken Communist regime espousing Marxist-Leninist philosophy. In 1978, the same army officers who put Daoud in as President, now members of the PDPA, staged the coup that put in Taraki and Amin, the first true Communist puppet leaders. Karmal was rotated into reserve as an ambassador to Czechoslovakia.
Dissatisfaction with reforms grew worse instead of better. The Soviets helped the Khalqis with all available means to fight against a nation which was rejecting Marxism, but the Khalqis failed to gain what the Soviets wanted. After 18 months of continuous atrocities, massacres, and imprisonment of innocent Afghans, they could not get rid of the Muslim movement against the atheist Communist ideology. When the Soviets realized that their puppets were about to be wiped out, despite their military assistance and advisers, they themselves marched into Afghanistan.
The Soviets brought with them their reserve puppet, Babrak Karmal, head of the Parcham faction, and installed him in Kabul while they announced him as President of Afghanistan from Radio Riga and Tashkent. Amin was assassinated and his gang numbering about 150 top men were sent to jail. They were kept in prison because that was the safest place, as it would have been dangerous for them to room around freely. They were not tried for their crimes and were released in early 1987. They were the reserve forces assigned to help Najib in the "new" PDPA government. When Najib took over, Karmal was flown off the scene in a Soviet plane to wait for his new role as puppet in reserve.
Zahir Shah, who has been living for the last 17 years "deprived" of his kingdom, is one of the reserve puppets of the Kremlin. In many ways he is very different from the other stooges. For instance, because of Daoud, Taraki, Amin, Karmal, and Najib, Moscow was forced to bear a great deal of human
(continued on page 31 )
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
15