stopped the struggle against the government and Soviet troops, but instead fought their "brotherers-in-arms." These tendencies also exist in Oandahar. 'The movement of the Islamic revolution" marked time.
Meanwhile, the groups of the two "Islamic Parties of Afghanistan"	received	the
order from their leaders Gulbuddin	Hekmatyar	and
Mohammad Yunis Khalis in Peshawar to step up combat operations and to struggle to sieze power. The Peshawar extremists announced their intention to plant their transitional governemnt" in Oandahar,	and they	are
nurturing plans for the division of Afghanistan.
We are	discussing	the
situation with Colonel Nisar (name as transliterated), leader of one of the provincial subunits of the Ministry of State Security A strong man, as if hewn from stone, he does not conceal the difficulties. On the contrary, he wants to reveal to us all the factors which are complicating the situation in Oandahar
The	irreconcilable
opposition is assembling additional forces here 400 men arrived from Uruzgan, 200 from Helmand They are waiting for additional detachments from the Pakistani bases to arrive. According to our data more than 20 advisors-from the United States, the PRC, the FRG, Pakistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia-are active in the groups close to Oandahar.
About 300 counterrevolutionaries went to the province from behind the border, from Quetta. Their task was to attempt to sieze Soviet
Assault: Combat vehicles are entering the city, they are taking up positions in guard detachments and block formation ready to protect the convoys from fire, the first to begin the march through Oandahar There are few people in the strets, and this increases concern: will there really be fighting ahead? Check your weapons! put on your helmets and bulletproof vests!
The Dushmans are conducting a strong mortar barrage - a vehicle is on fire. .
Now they can strike from the Kohypaya direction They will try to split the convey...
...The first wounded man arrived at the	battalion
command post:	Private
Grigoriy Sukhanov was blwon up by a mine. With the aid of his assistants	senior
Lieutenant	Nikilay
Baranovskiy, the	battalion
doctor, desperately fights for Grishin's life...I saw Lt. Col Dunayev grit his teeth: it is awful to lose guys, it is indescribably awlul-especially on the way home!
Machineguns were still firing
True, this picture can only be seen in Oandahar We had just gone past numerous stalls, and waved in response to the little boys squatting under the trees, and	then	suddenly	its
fighting, shooting, and over the thickets nearly black columns of smoke from the explosions. It is as if we are covering, like a chain of armour, a perfectly peaceful procession:	an elderly
townsman is moving along the roadside	surrounded	by
women, they are leading children. As if it has not occurred	to	them,	so
accustomed as they are to everything in their city on the front, that	they	are in	the
epicenter of the struggle Our APC brakes in an open space, and lets an on coming Afghan vehicle rush by: two soldiers support a wounded captain-they rush through the city to the hospital
The convoy leaves "Black Square", and gathers speed on a slope where the shells of burntout trucks shield the roadway from the "Green Zone” as if with a metal barrier along the roadway. Our face are burning with the heat The convoys are entering the Registan desert
from the command post-roof, and guns were blasting away behined the wall We go to the roof: there is firing in the city itself, and the vehicles which have been knocked out of action, are marked out by plumes of smoke.
soldiers and ofticers and carry off people loyal to the authorities.
A fine day is breaking. Sappers with powerful mine-clearing devices are the first to leave the camp: their task is to clear the road of mines...
The Mujahideen Monthly
38
November 1988