out of Iraq into Iran on the pretext that their roots were in the latter and not in the former. The few who stood their ground were effectively executed, either during public demonstrations, police interrogations or found dead under ambiguous circumstances.
However, there remained a third group among Shia opposition in Iraq which was equally sympathetic to Islamic revolutionary development in Iraq but due to its official positions in the army and other government establishments completely applied the :Tuq-qiyah” teaching of Shia ideology in burrowing Ba’athist regime from within. But Saddam Hussain proved to be too clever and he indeed out-manoevered this group in their own game. What he did was to turn them into sand bags and human for tifications by deliberately placing them on the red lines of the battles. They were thereby caught between the determined human-waves of Iranian offensives and moderous missile-fires of Iraq Republican Guards. This strategy worked well for the Ba’athists. It was to them using a stone to kill many birds at a time, and the danger posed by the second file of opposition was eventually neutralized.
Finally the old Kurdish question re-surfaced again after being betrayed by the former Shah of Iran by signing the Aligiers accord of 1975. Tehran during the war with Iraq rekindled the Kurdish autonomist struggle. To distabilitize Ba’athist regime in Baghdad, Iranians waved the banners of hope and independence before the poor Kurdish populace. The old aids and supports were immediately resumed. Military training were resuscitated and the Kurds were advised to open two more battle fronts to weaken Ba’athist army in Baghdad. The first to be internal through skilled agents in sabotage-operations behind Iraqi lines. The other was to be real guerrilla war-fare for the liberation of the so-called Kurdistan.
The lay-out was almost successful was not actually Tehran
The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991 I
interested in Talabani or Barzani, Nor as it interested in Kurdistan or Kurdish autonomy or independence. The whole issue was reduced to a conflict of ego that has nothing to do with the so-called Islamic fundamentalism. For one thing the Kurds had always been the losers. Since neither Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria nor Soviet Union which had 24%, 18%, 52%,5%and 1% of Kurdish population respectively, was prepared (nor is prepared) to grant any concession that would eventually alter the present sociopolitical balance in the region It was therefore mere politics or call it diplomacy of intrigues that forced the Iranians to hypocritically wave the banners of hope and independence before the Kurds.
The ruler of Iraq had long detested fighting on many fronts. More importantly his army were initially trained for conventional war fare and not for the hit-and-run operations of the secessionist. Baghdad actually became threatened and with the living memory of a near Kurdish victory in late 1975, the authorities became very worried. Nothing had Shaken the ruling clique of tyrants in Baghdad more than this old resistance movement. Iraq took some ill-planned and apparently panic measures in confronting this revived autonomists but failed raising the apprehension in Baghdad beyond control.
After series of bombings and straffings couldn’t disloge the Kurdish
page 30
fighters Saddam turned to his imperialist masters and borrowed a leaf from American shame in Nagazaki and Hiroshima. He ordered high quantities of cyanide bombs to be exploded over Halabsha. Plane sorties were intermittently sent out to exterminate the whole community, a decision that resulted in many thousand casualties among civilians. Unfortunately the majority were innocent women, children, the old, weak and pessimist adults who refused to partake in opposition against Baghdad. As for the real. Kurdish freedom Fighters who actually posed a threat to Ba’athist rule, they weren’t in the city but in the inaccessible ends of the jungle.
Though chemical weapons were said to be internationally banned but the questions are multiple here. How did Baghdad get these lethal weapons and why did Saddam Hussain go scot free even after using the same chemical bombs to wipe out advancing columns of Iranian soldiers on more than one occasion ? To sol ve the first riddle; Daniel Bejamin, filling his report for the American Time Magazine says....”Who’ is responsible for the threat posed by Saddam Hussain?” Then answers bluntly himself thus...” actually every industrialized nation assisted the Iraqi leader in some way after he came to power in 1979: Until he invaded Kuwait last month, greed and self-delusion about his intentions knew no boundaries...”