The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Islam in Uganda
by Abdullah
Islam was the first monotheistic religion to approach Uganda. It was brought by Arab traders before the colonization of the British of the region. When Christians came to explore East Africa, they found Islam already in existence. They sent Christian missionaries to the region who set up strong bases for unity, education, health, and worship. While they were paying attention to the future generations of Ugandans, the Muslims failed to educate their young people, even in their religion, and the Muslims remained few in number, seeing no future for themselves.
With the regime of Milton Obote, from 1981, the Ugandan Muslims were slaughtered and driven from their land. Their lives continued in hardship until the takeover of Yoweri Museveni in 1986 when he announced the equality of religions in the country and appointed some Muslim ministers to his cabinet.
Muslims began a renewal in Uganda at this time, and their first task was to forge unity. The new government policy allowed the Muslims to strengthen themselves fearlessly. Their second task was to spread the message
of Allah (SwT) in their society because even many Muslims were ignorant about their religion. Already their work has achieved some success as is evident by the following:
provocative act against the Muslims and the Palestinian people was the passage of a resolution by the U.S. House of Representatives on April 26, 1990, to recognize Jerusalem as the Capital of Israel, confirming the Senate’s resolution of March 22. It is unfortunate that the U.S. Representatives caved in the Zionist lobby in the U.S. and passed this resolution without debate in a remarkable two days.
One must remind them that they should be representing the American people rather than the Zionist lobby.
The resolution violates the international stand considering Jerusalem as an inseparable part of the
1.	The increasing number of veiled Muslim women.
2.	The crowded mosques daily in every town.
3.	The conversion of youths daily in all parts of the country.
4.	The rapid construction of new schools and mosques and the willing donations and assistance of fellow Muslims in the country.
This evidence has created some alarm among the non-Muslims in the country, and they have started planning and plotting how to protect their young people from the Muslim influence. This is quite a change from the attitudes just five or six years ago.
Still, for the Ugandan Muslims, ignorance is the worstdisease. The Muslim Ummah plans to continue to work on their tasks of unity and spreading the message of Allah (SwT). May Allah (SwT) send His blessings to those who follow his course.
occupied Arab territories. As such, the passage of this resolution is very provocative not only to the Arab countries but to the Muslims around the globe. It certainly has complicated the Middle East crisis, sending contradictory signals to those working for peace in Continued on page 49
PALESTINE AND THE US CONGRESS
Page 38