The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
military hardware to the Kabul regime in the face of the declining supply of weapons to the Mujahideen was a potential military challenge. At the same time the international propaganda effort against the Mujahideen supported by both Soviets and the West created an atmosphere that was about to weaken the ideology of the Afghan struggle. The lack of any effective or creative efforts of the Mujahideen political parties to make their government (AIG) acceptable to the Afghans and to the international community added to the frustration of the Mujahideen on all fronts.
It was against this background that the Hezb-i-Islami played a momentous role in the explosion of the Najib’s regime from within, bursting its bubble of credibility gained by false propaganda. Using good judgment, timely action, and foresight the Hezb-i-Islami has put the Afghan Jihad again on its firm track leading towards the establishment of a truly Islamic government.
immediately mobilized their forces to take advantage of the disruption in the Kabul army and have captured post after post while the long-standing offer of general amnesty continued to be universally upheld by the commanders. In addition, a recent poll of 341 randomly selected refugees in Peshawar, Pakistan, showed that 67% of the refugees felt that the uprising had benefitted the Mujahideen and 54% stated that the Mujahideen leaders should have backed the uprising (17% refused to state their opinion).
Gen, $h, Tanai, the leader of the
_________recent	military	uprising	in	Kabul
peace activist and revealing the designs of the propaganda machine which is circulating such insidious deceptions.
Thirdly, the uprising has weakened Najib militarily because at least 30% of the airforce planes were destroyed, three major ammunition depots were blown up, and essentially all military installations in Kabul were bombarded. So many pilots participated in the uprising that Najib had to rely on Soviet pilots and SCUD missiles during the uprising to attack Bagram airbase which was under the control of Tanai’s forces. Since the uprising, Najib has been forced to rely more on the SCUD missiles to counter the Mujahideen offensives simultaneously in all parts of Afghanistan whereas previously the airforce constituted the greatest advantage by the Kabul regime.
Although the untimely statements by the leaders of some of the Mujahideen parties condemning the struggle of Gen. Tanai who had joined the Mujahideen senta confusing massage to the field commanders, evidence shows that the end result was merely to display the isolation of these leaders from the actual field situation and from the opinion of the Afghan nation rather than to significantly affect to the outcome of the uprising. Most of the field commanders
The Hezb-i-Islami of Afghanistan, which had encouraged the uprising and facilitated it, was keeping in mind historical wisdom as well as the present realities inside and outside Afghanistan. Historical wisdom dictates that the most peaceful and effective way of winning a war is to encourage defection from the enemy’s military ranks. The current fate of defections and the ongoing damage to and depletion of the Najib forces would certainly have been significantly less	without
Mujahideen support. In fact, it is unlikely that Gen. Tanai would have even staged the uprising if he had no assurance of amnesty and support from the Mujahideen, namely the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
The realities inside and outside Afghanistan were such that Mujahideen faced both a military and a moral challenge due to waining international support.	The
tremendous daily shipments of Soviet
Page 4