WE SHALL FIGHT TO THE LAST AFGHAN
JANG INTERNATIONAL SEMINAR ON AFGHANISTAN 1985
perately trying to get then puppet regime tecogmzed by the world by advocating direct talks with Pakistan.
Some people think that the Russian military might is invincible, but is not the six year long resistance of the Afghan Mujahideen enough proof to the contrary? This was also said about Great Britain, the empiie where the sun never set, but now it is a tiny country where the sun never rises and it is still facing the Irish problem.
Some people are worried about how long the Mujahideen will be able to fight. We are not only not tired but are prepared foi a long war and are confident of victory. Why do they not ask how long the Russians will be able to fight?
Some friends are purporting that Pakistan by supporting the Afghan Mujahideen is inviting the enmity of the Russians at the behest of another super power.
We do not know to which country of the world, no matter how big or small, the war in Af ghanistan is of vital importance.
I do not know whose security and territorial integrity is guaranteed by the Jihad in Afghanistan. I believe if this war is not fought behind the Hindukush mountains today, it will be being fought tomorrow on the Pakistani plains. The Russians did not become the enemies of Pakistan after the Jihad started but they have been the staunchest enemy of this country since its formation. Every knowledgeable Pakistani is, I am sure, aware of who is behind all the secessionist movements in this country.
If Pakistanis really want to have secure western borders and are not willing to see the Afghanistan catastrophe repeated here, they should support the Jihad in Afghanistan.
Some people are arguing that
the distance started because the regime was implementing "progressive" policies. If they call mass-killings, destruction, bloodshed and holocaust as progressive policy we would surely agree to this contention. If we are to accept bombs as '''food", shrouds and coffins as "clothes" and graves 3s "shelters", then we have really seen the unmasked face of.communism.
We are not prepared for negotiation as long as there is a single Russian soldier on Afghanistan soil. We would not settle for losing at the conference table what we have gained in the battlefield. Any movement that has gone to the conference table in the
face of occupation of its territory has lost its gains. After the-complete withdrawal of the Russian troops, if there is anything to discuss, it would be considered.
The Russians by proposing peace talks-are intending to mitigate the sharp condemnation by world public opinion of their brutal invasion- of Afghanistan and to create pseudo-hopes among our Mujahideen and to pit one Mujahideen group against the other.
If the Russians really want a solution the key is with them; that is their immediate and total withdrawal from Afghanistan.
We guarantee that after the
Continued on Page 37
The Mujahideen Monthly
15