the Kabul troops in the cantonment. They had huge quantity of supplies and fdod stuff, but they lost the morale.
After having the information about the encirclment of Spin Buldak, the puppet regime sent reinforcement consisted of twenty tanks. The Mujahideen intercepted the convoy and force it for retreat. The Mujahideen strategy was to meet the enemy in the field anticipating maximum losses and reducing the duration of attack.
After three weeks state of siege, the Kabul troops decided to break the encirclment. They send two tanks as advance party' out of which one was hit by the Mujahideen and the other moved back towards Spin Buldak. On the other hand the Mujahideen also raided the reinforcement, which after losing two tanks, fled away towards Takhta Pul.
The Kabul troops confined in the garrison were calling for help by sending wireless messages, but Qandahar were unable to provide them with any help. Perhaps puppet regime was mentally prepared to accept the fall of Spin Buldak
The supreme command of Mujahideen decided to give final blow to the enemy and directed the local commanders about the strategy.
It was the morning of Sept 9, when Mujahideen were narrowing the siege from all sides. As they were advancing close to the garrison, the firing on both side become heavior The Hezb-i-lslami Commanders Eng. Abdul Wadood, . Abdul Ahad and Pahlwan Nick
Mohammad Khan who were leading the Mujahideen, entered in muddy fort of the garrison, hording on a jeep along with two campanions Qari Ahmadullah and Zahir Khan
They stormed the main gate of the cantonment and took positions. All of a sudden a cantingent of Kabul troops fired on the jeep, in response to which the Mujahideen launched rockets and mortars. After killing several Kabul troops, Qari Ahmadullah Khan and Zahir Khan martyred as they were hit by gun fire In this situation
commander Abdul Ahad and Pahlawan Nick Mohammad Khan stricked at the concrete bunkers, while several Mujahideen enter in the fort climbing on the walls. After sacrifying 76 losses and injuring to 150 during the encounter the Mujahideen at last conquered the Spin Buldak garrison at 11.00 a m. on Sept. 9. The Mujahideen captured three tanks, four armoured vehicles and eighteen trucks. The fall of Spin buldak is not merely capturing of a military cantonment, rather it was demoblising of subversive network working in Pakistan.
The wreckage or a British tank destroyed by Afghans in 1919 in the jehad against British and below is a Hussian tank captured by Mujahideen on Sept. 9.
The Mujahideen Monthly
21
November 1988