Commander Naser with unit of long range rocket captured by him in Shakardara district. Below is a unit loaded with rocket at the some place.
Mujahideen armed with rockets and missiles launched an attack at the military centre of Shehrak where the Kabul troops fled away after some resistance. In the fighting 12 Kabul troops were killed and ten others were captured while fleeing away and heavy quantity of arms and ammunition were captured from the military centre.
GUERILLA OPERATIONS OF MUJAHIDEEN IN BAGHLAN CITY
The Mujahideen led by Group Commander, Mohammad Akbar blew up a security post on October 7 from where the puppet troops fled away However seven troops with arms were captured. The same Mujahideen group led by Commander Bashir Khan during an operation destroyed the tank of the mobile force whose crew was killed on the spot.
MUJAHIDEEN FOIL MILITARY OPERATION NEAR KABUL
The Afghan freedom fighters frustrated the military offensive for recapturing the liberated town of Shakardara, 15 kilometre north of Kabul.
According to the reports, the armoured units, on October 10, advanced towards Shakardara where the Mujahideen waylaid the invaders at the place Qala Dasht. After the day long resistance, the armoured units retreated towards Kabul leaving behind the wreckage of a tank and two vehicles. The casualties during the military operation could not be confirmed while eight Mujahids sustained injuries.
SOVIET AIRBASE ATTACKED IN HERAT
The second largest Soviet
airbase of Shin Dand was attacked by the Mujahideen, as a result of which several Soviet troops were killed and injured and installations were destroyed.
According to AAP sources, the Mujahideen of Jamiat-e-Islami and Hizb-e-lslami stormed at the airbase by using rockets,
missiles and mortars on the morning of October 8. During the swift attack the invading forces conducted severe shelling in retaliation while the Soviet bombers sent from Herat hit the rural localities. In the course of bombing eight Mujahids and several Afghan civilians were martyred
The Mujahideen Monthly
46
November 1988