The Mujahideen, September, 1991
• Page 22 .
Muslim peoples of the world 450 million Muslims live as minority communities in non-Muslim states of the world. In many places they enjoy substantial rights but in many other places their rights are badly trampled and we see racism, religious intolerance and denial of basic human rights to many Muslim communities, varying in degree, such as in India, Greece, Yugoslavia, France and in many other parts of the world. All these must change. We urge upon the OIC, specially the ICFM and its Muslim Minority Commission, to present to the world, especially to the international fora, all such cases so as to work for the restoration of the basic hum an rights of Muslim minorities, especially their religious, social and cultural rights. We want no favour but justice.
(i)	Rights of the Child: We are most thankful to the UNICEF for taking such a direct interest in the matter of Children. The children of today are the citizens of tomorrow. The world Muslim Congress {the Motamar) urges upon all Muslim governments to set up Special Children’s Commission in each Member-state to study their problems with a view to solve them, as well as an OIC’s Commission on the Child’s Rights.
(j)	Other	Issues:	There	are various other issues which are also
of grave importance for the Muslim world e.g. the need of nuclear energy and technology for peaceful purpose and development. Need for the whole Muslim world is to become a Nuclear-weapon Free Zone. Furthermore to make our environment free from all pollutions for the future well-being of all humanity also deserve the serious attention of all thinking peoples of the world.
Another Mujahideen's victory:- Captured Communist ammunition base
r	^
ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE MUSLIM COUNTRIES
There are fifty independent Muslim countries in the world today.
All the Muslim countries, except a few won political independence after a long sustained struggle and after heavy sacrifice but economic independence is not there as desired and hence our socio-sufferings. We have to learn to solve our own problem not merely looking up to the charities of others.
The world Muslim Congress (the Motamar) has been presenting studies on Islamic economic cooperation and on the creation of a Muslim Common Market, on the occasion of the meeting of the INFMs, since 1970 at Karachi and at all the subsequent conferences. Fortunately some of our suggestion have been accepted and also partially implemented but not with full vigour. The world Muslim Congress sincerely wishes once again to repeat the following suggested plan of Action, in brief, for the kind consideration of the august body:
A)	Islamic Planning Commission: In order to avoid haphazard planning and duplication of efforts, we must start the process by establishing an Islamic International Planning Commission.
B)	Islamic Common Market: We once again ugre the honorable Foreign Ministers of member countries of OIC to set up the Islamic Common Market, with a view to build up a world-wide Islamic Economic Community.
C)	Islamic Manpower Bank: Similarly there is great need for creating an Islamic available in the Muslim world
and arrange their placement in the countries that need them.