ties available in Afghanistan Di Ermacora said there was appaiently no health care for the majority of the population and as a result, the infant mortality rate had reached 300 and 400 per 1000.
He said the war had particularly affected children, whether they lived in Kabul, in the main cities, or whether they had crossed the border as refugees. The majority of the children who did not leave the country and who were not in the cities were helpless against the effects of high altitued bombing and shelling, starvation and disease, the disruption of families and the collapse of the traditional structure.
Another problem caused by the war was the numerous orphans and abandoned children and the situation of women. In the traditional society children who had lost their parents were always looked after by a relative and orphans did not exist as a known category he said.
The fact that the traditional system had been destroyed, often as a result of the ioss of the father had created, particularly among the refugess, a whole series of pyschosomatic disturbances, the Special Rapporteur said.
He said the situation in Afghanistan was aggravated by the hatred which seemed to govern the hostilities, by the most cruel methods of warfare, and by the destruction of large parts of the country which had affected the conditions of life of the population.
Dr Ermacora said that the ethhic and tribal structure of the nation had been destablised, family units disrupted, and the demographic structure of the country changed with more than four million refugees from all provinces and all classes seeking shelter outside the country.
He said thousands of internal refugees had also crowded inot
Afghanistan's cities to try to escape the bombardment ot rural areas and estimated that the total number of such refugess was between 1.5 million to two million.
The situation of the refugees was such that their right to education, work and good health had been affected, the Special Rapporteur said.
He said that the government was witholding food and medicine from areas outside Kabul and other cities, resulting in staivation and disease. The situation had also resulted in the denial and destruction of cultural traditions, including the use of language and religious practices and these were now only seen in refugee camps outside Afghanistan or in areas controlled by the Mujahideen.
He noted that even in those
areas the constant fear engendered in people had created unrest which was counterproductive for clutrual traditions and religious practices.
The Special Rapporteur stiessed that since 1979 the internal human rights situation had been at variance with international norms and that a Loya Jirgha (Supreme Council) held in Kabul in April 1985 had not been representative of all political forces in the country. Dr. Ermacora said there could be no doubt whatsoever that the refugees were not represented.
In examing the procedures adopted by the government to hold the Loya Jirgah he said: "The importance of the Loya Jirgah held in April 1985 may best be appreciated by making reference to the traditional forum in the political and constitutional history
Continued on Page 23
Victim of
‘ b running agent
used bv Russian's jets.
18
The Mujahideen Monthly