
The Mujahideen, September , 1991	Page	32	•	&::
resentment against the present global order of oppression. It’s just a pity that a lot of crimes are glossed-over under the nose of democracy and in the court of a so-called modem civilization. The Jihad is the most reliable strength available to the masses and its prosecution must be carried onward to its ultimate consummation. Kabul will soon by Allah’s leave succumb to the
traditions which violate natural principles of progress would by Allah’s grace be among the fust institutions to face dissolution. These are infact inherited chains of oppression and celebrated shackles of subjugation, which have greatly contributed to the sorrowful state of our socio-political plight. They are all relic of the old days which must give way to the growing
means of perpetrating monopoly of resources solely on those, whose main job is to plunder the nation completely. There is no room here for idealistic theories nor time for utopian niceties. All that is needed is a practical revolutionary approach to basically a real socio-political problem.
Islamic revolution has launched its programe of transforming justice, from its ambiguous state of constitutional polemics to a living and perceived form of pragmatic ideological universality. Peace has to be established through faith and sanity, as justice needed to be entrenched via freedom and equality. It is not a question of sporadic local events but a movement for an enduring global resurgence.
Afghanistan is the new center of Islamic revival and the Mujahideen are perform ing a duty meriting applause for many centuries to come. The struggle for Kabul has unveiled the deep hypocrisy of modern champions of democracy and the debacle of the Soviets in Afghanistan has sealed the fate of self-made proletariats of freedom. Islam remains the only hope of the abandoned masses of the world and its lofty message must be protected too from these corrupt cultural currents of oppression. The coffin of the spurious Western style of liberty, is ready now for disposal, and the tomb-stone of Eastern version of openness is right here for inspection. The full import of this struggle today, may take some years more to be assimilated, since the arrogant mind, of the West is intoxicated with power and the out-dated philosophical thought of the East is alienated with errors.
Jihad is the path and the only road out of oppression. The suppressed will of man will eventually win back its denied liberty in life. Similarly, the unattended responsibility of the self, will soon be called to face the consequences of its choice. Surely the disputed throne of Justice and the wanted crown of liberty, are permanent properties of Islam. Let’s keep our fingers crossed and wait patiently for what tomorrow has in stock for us. To Allah be praises at all times.
m
i U I
ViiJ
power of the new era. army of faith and liberty and the entire	Afghan revolution rejects the
system in Afghanistan must be Islamised	existing culture of denial which of course
to reflect vividly the fundamentals of develops from the selfish interests of freedom and justice. Old customs and tyrants. This questionable order is a