sumer, due to food shortages and higher
prices.
Stability of output should be given prime consideration when plans are being made to induce economic “growth”, in order to ensure food supply and prevent malnutrition.
IV.	Other Agriculture-related health problems
A1986 WHO report lamented, “Developing countries, even before they have overcome the agriculture-related health problems of poverty, are acquiring those of affluence, often without the resources to deal with either. The agriculture-related health problem of poverty is malnutrition which in conjunction with infection and parasites increases mortality and morbidity, especially of the 0-5 years age group. On the other hand, the agriculture-related health problem of affluence is overconsumption of fats and sugars in combination with stress and sedentary living which may accelerate or cause cancer, heart disease, or
stroke in the over 40 years age group.
The difference in agricultural status between the developed and developing nations and the local habits of food consumption have far-reaching implications for health. Take, for example, the effect of tea consumption in a population that consumes a diet rich in thiamine (vitamin BI) versus a population with a diet poor in this vitamin.The caffeine present in the tea lowers the body’s thiamine level. Drinking tea will not pose a worrisome health threat in a population that consumes a thiamine-rich diet. In a thiamine-poor diet such as that of the Afghan refugees, however, drinking tea can only worsen the health problem s related to thiam ine deficiency.
The symptoms of thiamine deficiency include nervousness, difficulty to concentrate, agitation, and difficulty in digesting carbohydrates. High consumption of purified sugar and psychological stress are other factors that reduce thiamine. All of these three factors (tea-sugar-stress) are present among the Afghan refugees. The combined effect of these factors in lowering body
thiamine in a population with a poor thiamine diet is indeed a situation that requires immediate attention.
As in Norway, unhealthy pattern of food consumption, such as increasing consumption of tea and sugar, can be influenced by health education in schools and through radio,TV, and the newspaper, by duty on imports, by agriculture programs, and by other national policies, ifthere is intersectoral policy planning for health.
V.	Conclusion.
In conclusion intersectoral cooperation is needed to formulate and implement the best intervention for preventing disease. Towards this goal, coordination between sectors such as those of agriculture, education, and public health are particularly essential. We should design intersectoral approaches that induce changes consistent with our religious and cultural norms and which will help us to achieve a balanced success that has the quality of “permanence”.
Page 53