The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990


Wrt.
By Faizullah Kakar Ph. D. RAC A Health Committee
Post-War Afghanistan
C_7
I. Introduction
Jn Sweden, out of 1000 births only seven babies die before they reach one year old, but in Afghanistan in 1980 a survey showed that about 150 babies out of every 1000 babies bom die before the age of one year. The rate of death of children between the ages of one and five years old is called child mortality. Again the rate in Afghanistan is more than ten times the rate in countries like Sweden or Japan. Most of these deaths are avoidable, preventable by cheap simple means.
I n a 1984 United Nations’ survey of Afghan refugees, it was found that 38% of infant deaths are due to tetanus and about 20% of children’s
deaths are related to an episode of measles, both totally avoidable by vaccination. 39% of children die due to dehydration from diarrhea. Dehydration has been shown to be effectively counteracted by Oral Rehydration Solution that is, giving the child water with a little salt and sugar.
If childhood disease is so easily prevented, why are we so far behind? There are many reasons—economical, political, and cultural, but the latest scientific research says that lack of education, especially women’s education, is the biggest reason for poor health. In developing countries it was found that increasing women’s literacy by 1 % was three times more effective in reducing child mortality in that country than increasing the number of doctors by 1%. Even in developed countries, health is more closely associated with education
than any other factor including economic status or family size.
Not only in matters of health is education important but in all matters of development of a country. Why is it that countries of the Third World have been struggling for forty years and still have not moved from “developing countries” to “developed countries” in spite of fancy development aid packages of billions of rupees? At the same time, some countries which were totally devastated by war in the past century have rebuilt with less aid and over less than a decade. A major economist says the keys are “education, organization, and discipline” rather than natural wealth, capital, or infrastructure. Countries where literacy is high, development is easier and quicker. We must note however that education is a slow process. We cannot snap our fingers and be educated, it takes patience and perseverance, personally and in policy. But we must start NOW.
II. Intersectoral nature of health problem
For the past ten years the World Health Organization has been emphasizing and calling for the coordination of health-related activities of different sectors. Previously health planning has emphasized the curative approach and, as such, has been isolated to the health sector. More recently, health experts have seen the advantages of the preventive approach and this has led to the need for intersectoral policy formulation
The goal of a preventive ap-
Page 50