The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
IPage 28
INTRIGUS OF POWER
A
However, Jamal Abdul-Naseer was able to realize some of his pan-Arabist objectives, before he died under mysterious circumstances. As far back as 1952, a young commissioned officer though he was, Jamal manipulated well hisMuslim Brotherhood connection and the common nationalist orientation he received at the Egyptian Military Academy, in sacking the royal house of king Farooq in Cairo. America had earlier been taken into confidence by the clique of these military boys so as to checkmate the over-whelming support and popularity which the Muslim Brotherhood commanded in Egypt. Truly Lo his calculations, the coup d’etat succeeded. Farouq’s kingdom was liquidated and Jamal became the major power in the country, The two-face internal struggles lhaL followed were all part of the nationalist strategics. They fought those conservative superior officers in the army and broke their strongly-worded allegiance to the Islam ic activists. The Islamic revolutionaries were trapped and butchered mercilessly through a well laid repressive formula of the highest order. This treacherous stab-in-the back, meticulously performed by these so-called young Egyptian army revolutionaries, was infacta professional service to the cause of Zionism, which had been badly shaken by the Brotherhood’s role in 1948 Muslims’ confrontation with imperialism in the Middle East. Similarly, it was also a form of gratitude to America which later reciprocated by publicly condemning European joint aggression on Cairo qnd went further by entrenching the young officers in power.
From here onwards, Jamal Abdul Naseer played the role of a real
pan-Arabist. He accepted the responsibility of training young Arab officers from all over the region. He projected himself a revolutionary even if all his ambitions were directed against the sovereignty of his country and progress of humanity instead of the avowed foreign imperialists he setout to fight. He was also able to establish himself in a question of a very short period as a world-class despot by silencing all oppositions at home and transforming Egypt not only into a practical one party state but also a political hell for Muslim activists. Cairo became the most active center in the Middle East:acadcmically, socio-politically and militarily. It equally attracted foreigners and Muslims all over the world.
Though the Ikhwan movement came under fire from nationalist repressive policies, but did manage to gather adherents and zealous followers all around the region. This without doubt made Cairo poly-centric in its compositions, now divided between the Brotherhood, conservative, communist-socialist groups and Nationalists. Since the last mentioned controlled the government, all official organs of the authorities reflected their objectives. Jamal Abdul Naseer gathered round himself, young military boys from neighboring Arab stales, and injected in to them his barren pan-Arabist philosophies. These officers like Anwar Saddat of Egypt, Hafiz Assad of Syria, Jafar Numciri of S udan and others, were properly indoctrinated with the objectives and methods of Middle East nationalism. It was in Cairo they all formed their first conceptualization of brutality and treachery as basic instruments of totalitarian survival. It was actually to the credit of Egyptian nationalists generally, and Jamal Abdul
Naseer in Particular that conservative monarchies existing then in most part of the region were shown their exit, including, the one in Libya. Though the Egyptian regime in Cairo could not lorm an ultra-Arab empire as desired but it won enough converts among young army officers that merited commendation.
Saddam Hussain is the most successful disciple of Jamal Abdul Naseer, and a probable heir to the cast his mentor occupied as the Arab-Causc most famous champion. On that basis, the last devastating crises angle Baghdad seeks today to play the role Cario once played, and Ba'athism wants to prove itself as a natural continuation of Arab nationalist movement. Finally, all what Saddam Hussain cherishes as his ambition now is nothing but lo be a living incamalcof his former instructor. He wants Baghdad to be the next political center of all activities in the Middle East and himself the unchallenged, emperor of a vast Arab kingdom at all costs, even of it entails mass destruction, callous betrayal and outright sellout of the whole region of Zionist shylocks.
Following the 1958 expulsion of the British-made monarchy in Iraq, Gen. Abdul-Karim Qussim ran into trouble with other Pan-Arabist by considering himself an Iraqi nationalist first be fore con tern pla ti n g to be a M i dd 1 c East Arab regionalist. The Ba’athists among others took up arms against him and tried many times to topple his government by numerous excruciating unrests. In 1963, the enemies were too much for Abdul-Karim Qussim to suppress and he could not even win any reliable support from the self-appointed guarantors of regional despotism. Later in the year, another military putsch successfully went through, and the General with some of his leading