The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991
Page 29
colleagues lost their lives. The role of Ba’athist party in this latest development remains up till now very contentious, even though its members had themselves earlier joined the broad base opposition against the government and attempted more than once to assassinate the head of state. Soon after this, the opposition broke down as a united front and a new power-struggle ensued among group-members of the shaky resistance league with bitterness, brutality and treachery which had long characterized the vengeful Iraqi politics. By 1969, the balance appeared to have tilled quite well in favour of the Ba’athist, and Gen. Ahmad Hussain Al-Bakr,—a senior .military officers but naive political administrator for the turbulent Iraqi scene— assumed power.
Saddam (then only 32yrs old) was latter appointed the vice-president and with a combination of red-tape diplomacy, espionage intrigues and blunt use of terror, was able to outflank his powerful rival in party. Eventually he rose up to become the sole dominating actor and the real ruler of Iraq. However, in theory and according to official hierarchy he was still behind Gen. Al-Baker. Though Ba’athist parly had been a quasi-elitist party but the new vice-president did surprisingly manage to stream-line both its membership and acti vites in such a fashion as to be mistaken for another version of “barber-shop” Mafia which was associated with Italian Sicily, but now in the heartland of Arabian desert.
The government, right from its commencement lacked both grass root support and popular followings. Its functionaries had never been interested in mass movement of the people. Apart from scanty sympathizers it could muster in Tikrit, which was said to be the constituency of both Ahmad Hussain Al-Bakr and his deputy Saddam Hussain, plus few clusters of admirers in the broader Tigris province, Ba’athism as an ideology enjoyed no other local support. It had therefore lost all legitimacy to rule, and likewise foreited the needed legality to speak for the people or stay in power right from inception.
It can thus be seen that the political pyramid of Ba’athist administration was a hollow structure from the on-set and the initial lack of popular power-base presented a major hurdle before the ambitious tyrants in Baghdad. But to Saddam Hussain’s sharp acumen this appeared to be a minor puzzle because of the total confidence he personally reposed in his own innate witticism. As a foreign commentator puts it. ...’’Saddam Hussain is a real pragmatist who allows reality to over-ride readily his ideological premonitions..” Well it is still debatable if Saddam Hussain has got any ideology in the true sense to merit any premonitions and whether Pan-Arabism from which Ba’athism draws its inspirations has got any solid doctrinal foundation remain to be clear. Unfortunately this observer made all aforementioned issues as vague as ever and even more ambiguous to his readers, however, he made a good point here.
Since he was convinced and determined to make himself the life commander-in-chief of the whole nation, Saddam Hussain to his own credit, quickly admitted sincerely that he was facing better equipped and larger opposi lions at home. They formed a long variegated spectrum of opposition movement starting from some of his Ba’athist co-party workers and military officers to resistance-leaders in exile. He cleverly classified them into major groups and filed them up patiently and orderly before the party pol itical guillotine. It was dramatic and apparently impressive, except the objectives which were all colored with personal impudence.
His energies were first directed against his own rivals within the same pan-Arabist movement. At this point Saddam Hussain exhibited his latent aggressive tendencies and unleashed torrential waves of allegations as facades in eliminating all present and potential adversaries in the party. The world took this too with mute lips and nobody felt justified to protect the rights of the oppressed populace. Morally none had the gut to speak because CIA,KGB, SAVAK, MOSSAD and other contemporary heirs of Gestapo were involved in similar international intrigues abroad.
After h is successful operation against party rivals and universi ly protesters, the now stronger ruler of Baghdad turned on another potent adversary in the country. He selected the Shiasas the next victims of suppression. The external battle he was fighting happened to be against a predominantly Shia community. The Islamic revolution in Iran had inspired resistance in Iraq prior to the out break of war as well as in the beginning of hostitics between the two countries. What Saddam did was to launch a new process of witch-hunt. Those who had no serious determination for opposition were driven en-mass
Saddam Hussain is the most successful disciple of Jamal Abdul Naseer,and a probable heir to the seat his mentor occupied as the Arab-Cause most famous champion. On that basis, the last devastating crises between Iraq and Kuwait should also be viewed from this additional angle Baghdad seeks today to play the role Cairo once played, and Ba’athism wants to prove itself as a natural continuation of Arab nationalist movement. Finally, all what Saddam Hussain cherishes as his ambition now is nothing but to be a living incarnate of his former instructor. He wants Baghdad to be the next political center of all activities in the Middle East and himself the unchallenged, emperor of a vast Arab kingdom at all costs, even of it entails mass destruction, callous betrayal and outright sellout of the whole region to Zionist shylocks