WMMMiMwMMMiWMMM The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
express what leader and government they are willing to follow is itself an un-Islamic act.
Furthermore, when human sacrifices are needed for Islam, those leaders who would not allow the common man to vote make no distinction between the learned and the illiterate, or they may even expect the common man to sacrifice on the front line while they rest in the back. They allow common men to go to battle and face death to obtain an Islamic government in their land, but they would deprive them of the right to choose the leaders of that government. This type of inequality has no root in Islam.
The great tragedy of the Muslim Ummah (community) has been the transformation of the Caliphate into monarchy. Now it is not the continuation of monarchy but the breaking away
Power obtained at the price of people's rights is the most hated.
"Selecting " a Loya Jirga of one's friends or party members who acquiesce to one's rule instead of facing the people in general elections is merely another form of coercion.
from this false tradition which is Islamic. The tradition of the caliphs had been to hate power; in case they were compelled to accept an office, they did so with the consent of the Muslim Ummah. But in some circles the whole concept is upside down. Power is sought through unfair means; the consent of the people is not considered. However, the Mujahideen of Afghanistan, who sacrificed 1.5 human lives to force a superpower from their land, are not likely to accept anyone, even from among themselves, who usurps their right of self-determination.
In Islam, power lies in the
consent of the people. A leader’s legitimacy and authority must be obtained from his own people and cannot be begged from foreign powers. If one has not committed practices repugnant to the interest of the nation, if one has been true to the people and has fulfilled his promises to them, if one has not betrayed the Jihad, then what should prevent one from facing his own countrymen in general elections. Those who believe in Allah (SwT) and the Day of Judgement should stop their immoral practices and games they are playing with the Afghan nation. In the court of Allah (SwT) each will be accountable for his actions. And there will be no “disinformation” to the press, but falsehood shall be differentiated from the truth. And there will be no cover-up of personal benefits from the sacrifice of others, but every penny gained out of selfish politics will be exposed.
As for those foreign powers whoclaim to sympathize with our cause, their interference with our right of self-determination is unjustand unwarranted. For their own people they demand democracy, but for us they send robots to rule us. They claim to practice their noble ideals in their own countries, but for the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Afghanistan no heed is paid to ideals and even the UN Charter is trampled under their boots. Their actions show that they do not believe in human rights or justice; their actions show that they only believe that “might makes right”.
However, power obtained at the price of people’s rights is the most hated. “Selecting” a Loya Jirga of one’s friends or party members who acquiesce to one’s rule instead of facing the people in general elections is merely another form of coercion. The only just and practicable way for the Afghan people to choose an Islamic leader is to hold elections among all the Afghans, whether refugees or those residing in the liberated areas. Any other option will result in peril to our nation, and our so-called leaders shall be responsible for it, responsible in the eyes of Allah (SwT) as well as the Afghan nation.
HIA proposes options for the resolution of the Afghan crisis
Brother Hekmatyar in a recent press conference proposed the following options:
There are several options to the solution of the Afghan issue:
1.	Election be held in liberated areas and in the refugees camps. Out of 282 districts and subdistricts which are considered electoral constituencies, 241 districts and sub-districts which are liberated - can send their representatives to a Shoura through election. These representatives constitute 85% of the whole population of Afghanistan. They would frame the constitution and elect interim government.
2.	Gen. Najib's regime be replaced by an interim administration, being acceptable to the Mujahideen forces. Then election be held under supervision of an election commission with the consultation of the Mujahideen. The Shoura which would come into being as a result of the election, can draft the constitution and elect a government.
3.	The army take an action and topple the Gen. Najib's regime followed by establishment of a cou ncil comprising of non-PDPAofficers and the commanders of Mujahideen in Kabul. This council should hold elections within six months and transfer power to an elected government.
4.	Non-interference by USA, Russia and other foreign countries, leading to the negative symmetry, and the Afghans be left to decide whether they want war, negotiations or election.
page 22