Captu'ed aims in Khawaia Uman
The Russian Generals and the Marshal's daughter were killed. Soon after the explosion the convoy stopped and started firing in all directions until several helicopters arrived from Kabul an hour later and picked up the dead bodies.
Next morning Russian troops came into the area and besides destroying villages arrested villagers who were travelling to or from Kabul. They took the villagers to the Governor's House at Maidan Shahar where he addressed them and accused them of killing the government's guests. Three of the villagers were directly blamed for having a role in the attack and detained while the rest were released.
The whereabouts of those detained is not known.
/
On Sept. 18 Russ rah forces entered Maiden area passing Pul-i Surk;h and attacked Muja-
hideen positions. After about nine hours of heavy fighting the Mujahideen were able to repulse the enemy, killing about 35 troops.
During the fighting the Mujahideen destroyed six tanks and seized two Kalakov machmeguns, two Garrinov machine-guns and ope ZK—I anti-aircraft gun.
Two Mujahids, Abdul Jamil and Mohammad Ashooq were martyred and two others were wounded.
On Sept. 23 the Russians launched a 'big offensive on a Mujahideen stronghold in Chak with BM—13 rocket firers, more than 100 tanks, 12 Mig—21 jets and 46 helicopters. Before launching the ground attack the Russians bombed the area for two days and dropped troops by helicopter on strategic areas.
The Mujahideen shot down two helicopters and killed about 300 militias and Russian soldiers. In this offensive 67 civilians mainly women and children and two
Mujahids were killed. The offensive lasted 20 days during which the Russians destroyed 670 houses, eight shops and two trucks-belonging the civilians.
On Oct. 3 Mujahideen planted mines on Kabul Qandahar highway, Sheikhabad when a Russian convoy passed through the area they destroyed four tanks.
On Oct. 5 two tanks were destroyed in the same area by mines. On 24 Oct. Mujahideen captured one car belonging to the Khad (government intelligence) unit in Mustikhil area. On Oct 28. two tanks were destroyed in Dashti Toops by mines planted by Mujahideen.
On Oct. 14 Russian air forces attacked Sanglakh area, 60 kilometres south-west of Midan, the provincial headquarters of Wardak province. After bombing the Mujahideen positions they landed militias and soldiers by helicopter in the area.
Duting the operation Mujahi-
9
\
i
* 32
i
The Mujahideen Monthly