friends of Jihad, and the people of our nation that it is a fair way of choosing a leader.
I think now that only those who are not sure about their leadership role are the ones who are afraid of elections. Our nation as a whole has accepted elections as a way to solve the problem. Thus the various parties are under pressure to accept elections whether they want to or not.
Q Since the Soviet exit from Afghanistan, the new policy of Iran has complicated the issue. Was this change of policy expected?
Ans. In many ways it was unexpected. We thought that our Iranian friends would always be in favour of the establishment of a strong Islamic government. They knew the experience of the Afghans in being friends with the Soviets so we expected that they would be cautious in their dealings with the Soviets. Our experience should have been enough for them. But, unfortunately, during this time when the Afghan issue has not yet been solved, when the Afghans are still being killed by the Soviet weapons, when the Soviets have not yet given up supporting their puppet regime, in such a time, Iran thaws its relationship with the Soviets and befriends them, even to the extent that now the Kabul regime appreciates the position of Iran in relation to the Afghan issue!
The bad publicity of the Kabul regime against Iran has completely stopped. Now the Iranians, too, have changed their vocabulary when talking about the Soviet Union, the Kabul regime, and the Afghan revolution. They are talking about "cease-fire", about "dialogue" and about a "regional conference" for solving the Afghan issue. Whose words are these? Iran has even said that if the Kabul regime is acceptable to the Afghan people, they will not protest it!
Our hope was that Iran would have stuck to their position that the foreign forces should abstain from their interference in Afghanistan, that the Soviets should withdraw their support from their hand-picked regime, that they should stop sending weapons to Afghanistan that they should abstain from killing Afghans, and that they should allow the Afghans to determine their own destiny.
No one has the right to interfere in the internal Afghan affairs or to try to
determine its destiny, whether in the name of being a regional neighbour or whether in the name of being a superpower. The Afghans should be left to their own affairs.
That Iran should make such a turnabout in their policy toward Afghanistan was not. only unexpected, it was unimaginable.
O.	Last week it was reported that it was due to the explicit and forceful position of the Hezbi-Islami that the Americans changed their idea of providing weapons dlrpctly to the commanders. What Is your understanding of this?
Ans. We had considered this a very wicked interference in our internal affairs. Those commanders who received help directly from the U.S. embassy are known to us ; we have their list. We know quite well the intent of the Americans in giving direct aid. They, like the-Soviets, desire their own Najib and would impose their own man on our nation. They want to fill the "vacuum" left when the Soviet troops withdrew from Afghanistan. Perhaps the Americans have not learned from the unsuccessful experience of the Soviets in Afghanistan.
It surprised me to see that these Jihad parties allowed the Americans to interfere in our internal affairs, the result of which will be to cause internal clashes among our people. We must continue to stand firm against such interference.
O. Has the West also now become a threat to establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan?
Ans. • We have always said that the West believed that the Soviets in Afghanistan were a threat to their own benefits from exploitation of the area. Only to this level was the issue of Afghanistan of interest to them. For this reason, they wanted the Soviet forces to leave Afghanistan; they wanted to free Afghanistan from the claws of the Soviets. Yet the Americans would never stay neutral on the question of the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. The propaganda of the West against the Mujahideen since the Soviet exit shows to what an extent they the against the establishment of an Islamic government by the hand of the Mujahideen, because they see this as a threat to their interests.
Q. Do you think that the Americans and the Soviets may have reached a mutual agreement about the future of
Afghanistan?
Ans. I imagine that long ago the Soviets and fhe Americans reached an agreement. Regarding their abhorrence to the establishment of an Islamic Government in Afghanistan, there is no difference between them. The difference between them is over the issue of how to distribute the various governmental posts in the future Afghan government. Each side is trying to have a part in the future Afghan government. They do not differ on what type of government should be in Afghanistan; they agree that there should be a broad-based government in Afghanistan in which both Moscow and Washington have a share.
Q. Was the Soviet invasion predictable in 1979? What was your reaction at that time?
Ans. The day when the Soviet soldiers invaded Afghanistan, we were not expecting that they would commit such a mistake. At this time the regime of Hafizullah Amin was in a state of decline, cities one after another were conquered by the hand of the Mujahideen, military units one after another were joining the Mujahideen, and Kabul was besieged by the Mujahideen. Any moment Amin's regime was expected to fall, and it was obvious that only Soviet troops could save the regime, but we did not expect that to happen. Our Afghan military officers sent us messages that, if we pursue our planned activities, there would be a good chance of a Soviet invasion. Even with those messages, we did not believe that the Soviets would commit such a blunder. We also discussed the possibility of invasion with other friends of Afghanistan, but they also totally discounted the idea that the Soviets would consider invasion.
When the Soviets did invade, our first information was not clear. Kabul. Radio was still taking the side of Amin while Radio Moscow broadcasted a statement of Babrak Karmal. What an unusual scene! Soviet forces had been concentrated on the northern borders of Afghanistan so that the attack on Kabul was made swiftly and suddenly by land and by air. Gradually it dawned on us that, while we were waiting to see the fall of Amin's regime, we were faced instead with the Soviet forces.
8
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990