are left lying on the ground so that children will pick them up the lethal 'toys can kill or senously maim a child.
Similar bombs in the shape of pens, watches, in fact in many different guises, are also being spread around.
According to Sayed Hamidullah the Russians have five stiong bases in Kunduz. The biggest is Dashti Abdan which normally has a strength of more than 2000 tanks and army trucks. However, since the latest attack by the Mujahideen, its operational capacity has been reduced The second largest is at Kunduz airport with 500 tanks and army trucks and 50 helicopters; third is Qala Kuhna with 50 tanks, plus Bm-13 and Bm-21 rocket firers ; fourth , Qahwa Khana, with 250 tanks and army trucks and finally Pul-i-Alchin with 50 tanks.
There are also more than 100 tanks, APCS and military trucks parked in different parts of Kunduz city.
He said that despite all the government's military strength it exercised full control over its bases and Kunduz city only during the daytime at night the Russian forces were subject to attack.
The rural area :s under the control of the Mujahideen. The government is not letting people take more than 20 metres of cloth and three kilogrammes of tea and sugar outside Kunduz city. The Mujahideen usually get these things by capturing government convoys.
Supplies of raw cotton for the country's biggest cotton factory, Spin Zar Ltd, are under the control of the Mujahideen. ^1 f the Mujahideen want to stop production at the factory they simply ask farmers not to grow cotton. For example, from 1982 jjntil 1984 the factory was almost cJo'sed,
The factory is partly owned by the government and partly by local tovyns people and farmers.
It is now paying two million Afghanis (USS1666) a year out of the government s share to the Mujahideen and for this reason, and because local Afghans also have shares in the company, the Mujahideen are allowing it to continue operating.
Sayed Hamidullah said that the Mujahideen were carrying out hit and run raids throughout the province and had attacked nearly all Russian convoys travelling in the area. During 1985 he launched four
biq offensives on government and Russian positions and as well as the normal shelling and bombing by Russian aircraft his Mujahideen were attacked tvuice by Russian troops.
On April 7 about 600 Mujahideen from Hezb-i-lslami attacked Hezrat Imam Sahib district headquarters and wiped out the headquarters and II army posts. As a result the Mujahideen won control of Imam Sahib city and captured arms and ammunition. In this operation one Mujahid was martyred and eight were wounded. In retaliation the government bombed villages and killed 12 civilians and wounded more than 50.
i
On July 25 he attacked seven army posts around Kunduz city and wiped out three of them. During this operation the Mujahideen destroyed a wi.ne store containing more than 5000 bottles of wine and burned 18 million roubles. Twenty senior communists and Khad agents were killed.
On August 24 Mujahideen attacked Kunduz airport, which is located seven kilometres to the south of Kunduz city Mujahideen from the neighbouring province of Takhar under the command of Eng. Bashir also took part. They fired 82 rockets and according to a report that was later confirmed destroyed 80 tanks, 30 helicopters, one 118-wireless set and 18 residential blocks. About 200 Russians were killed.
The Russians closed the airport for three days after the attack in an attempt to cover up the number of casualties and the extent of the damage.
Sayed Hamidullah said that during 1985 about 90 Mujahideen and more than 1000 civilians including women, children and the aged were killed by Russian troops. He added that although 95 percent of the province was controlled by Mujahideen farm production had fallen by more than 40 per cent due to Russian air attacks on canals and the use of different types of anti-plant agents either to burn farms or dry out the soil.
He said that this winter and next year the Russians would increase their operations threefold compared with the past nine months. The Russians have suffered a lot in Kunduz province during 1985 particularly during the attack on Dashti Abdan military base where they lost about 3000 soldiers.
When I asked him "will you still resist when the Russians
intensify their operations” he answered ; "Yes, Inshaa-Allah (Allah willing) we will defeat them again and aaain."
26
The Mujahideen Monthly