The Mujahideen, Ocober / November, 1991 mmttHMmmtHKtHHHSKStPage 23 mmmm
Buses are provided for those students who are not living in hostels to transport them from their homes to schools and back. Those provided with hostel facilities in different schools are as follows:
( Story of a YoungMujahid
i
1:- Saycd Jamalludin High School	- 1200
2:- Imam Azzam Madrasa \	-450
3:- Abdullah Ibn Abbas	- 760
4:- Central Darul Hifaz	-680
5:- Talimul-Qur’an	-428
6:- Ziaul Jihad	-383
7:- Mazhar ul-Ulum Madrasa	- 100
8:- Imam Bukhari Madrasa	-520
9:- Al-Fatah Lycce	-200
10:- Maulavi Habib Rahman Lycee	-320
11:- Abdur Rahim “Niazi” Lycee	-240
Total	-5181
What are your financial resources and how much is your monthly expenditure on education?
By: Rahmanullah
It was December 1988. The annual examinations of Govt. High School MayarDistl. Dir (N.W.F.P., Pakistan), was in progress when the 9th class boys were attempting the Islamic studies paper, one of the boys attempted the question which was about the Jihad(Holy war in the way of Allah).
This student while giving the answer of the question, fully described the various types of Jihad, its importance, meaning definition and advantages in the light of Holy Qur’aan and Sunn ah.
As this boy was not a common School boy who just attempted his classes and played various games only but was much different from the rest of the boys. He was not only a School boy, to read and write and to play some interesting games in the playground, but was also a Muhajir and had left his homeland and migrated. He was a Mujahid who had taken practical part in the Jihad in his early childhood in the battlefield. He, however, had not embraced Shahadat (martyrdom) although he had a great desire and hope to embrace Shahadat in the way of Allah Almighty.
He wrote a few sentences in the essay about Jihad and expressed his hearty feelings in the following words. “ I want to do Jihad in the way of Allah with the enemies of Islam and communists. I have the desire to sacrifice my life for the sakeof Allah and His message in this world."
Our monthly expenditure is around Rs. 11,776,629 and we get this amount from Muslim countries, Islamic organizations and the Jihad sympathizers. •
Whether the agreement reached between the US and USSR to stop supplying arms to both sides in Afghanistan, from Jan. 1,1992, will gave a negative impactonyoureducational programmes?
In fact, we welcome this decision. But this must be mentioned that the two countries have'to stops, all kinds of interferences in Afghanistan.
f
If and indeed the Soviets discontinue deliveries of arms packages to the despicable regime of Najib, Kabul govt, will surely fall to the Mujahideen soon.
Once the Islamic govt, is established in Afghanistan, the education system wi(l be placed under the control of the govt, and the domain of education will certainly be expanded further. •,	/	1
When the examination was over and the School was closed for the winter vacations, the examination result was awaited. He remembered those sentences and words which he had written in his paper. Actually he was waiting for the time when his desire which he expressed in the paper might be fulfilled for this purpose he left for Jihad with his other young friends, belonging to Islamic Jamiat Talaba Pakistan (student wing of Jamiat-i-Islami Pakistan) to Paktia province of Afghanistan. During this period the cruel Russian troops were busy in killing the innocent Muslims of Afghanistan.
, Within a fortnight of the departure of this young Mujahid, his dream of martyrdom became true. The result of his examination was not yet announced when he became Shaheed (martyr) on the 28th day of the December, 1988 at a hilly area of Paktia province near Khost
%
This great young poineer of Jihad was Samiullah son of Qari Abdullah, bom in the village Mirsheikh, Ali Abad, Kunduz, Afghanistan in the year 1966. He was also a pushto poet and writer. His prose and essays were very moral in nature he was very fond of learning and acquiring education. He wrote with a purpose. Although his education remained incomplete but he achieved the real goal of his life.^
M
I