caught fired by the rocket. The Soviet pillot and the crew of the helicopter were killed on the spot. The Mujahideen captured a machine gun and other arms from the wreckage of the helicopter.
KABUL:
The details of the Mujahideen’s attack on Afghan capital Kabul indicated that the official buildings Khana-e-Khalq and Darul Aman were severely affected during the shelling on Oct. 21. The other losses occured during the operation could not be confirmed.
SOVIET PLANES BOMB SECURITY POST NEAR KABUL
Over 20 Kabul troops were killed and injured during the bombing of Soviet planes in Deh Sabz area, 14 kilometer north of Kabul on the morning of October 17.
According to the AAP sources the Soviet planes hit the security post of puppet regieme when the planes were searching the Mujahideen positions. The building of the security post reduced into rubble during the bombing.
The same day the Mujahideen shelled Bagram airbase where invading forces had to suffer severe losses The Afghan freedom fighters also frustrated a military operation which aimed at to recapture the librated area of Deh Sabz. It was learnt that the invading forces fled away leaving behind the wreckage of two tanks, a vehicle and a heavy gun. In a course of offensive several Soviet troops were killed including two high ranking officers.
MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURED FIVE PROVINCIAL HEADQUARTER IN AFGHANISTAN
After capturing Mehmood
Raqi the captial of Kapisa province, the Mujahideen are now controlling five provincial headquarters in Afghanistan
According to the reports the Mujahideen attacked on Mehmood Raqi on October 18 and captured it after week long resistance. Most of the officials and the troops of Kabul regime were arrested but the provincial Governor was escaped. It is to be noted that Taloqan, Bamiyan, Asadabad and Shama, the headquarters of Takhar, Bamiyan, Kunar and Paktika are already under the control of Mujahideen.
The reports adds the Mujahideen seized a machine gun and 15 rifles of a mobile force near Najrab town where a Mujahid was martyred and eight puppet troops were killed and injured.
In the meanwhile three security force were wiped out by
The Mujahideen Monthly
51
November 1988