HEKMATYAR
LAUDS
GORBACHEV
DECISION
by Rafiq Afghan
FALL OF SIMA BlILDAK
General	Secretary
Gorbachev's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was wise and just, said Eng. Hekmatyar at a press conference in Peshawar.
However, he said this should have been done immediately when Mr. Gorbachev had come to power. Hundreds and thousands of people have died since then. Eng. Hekmatyar said the Mujahideen would try to capture the places to be evcuated by the Soviets before winter.
Asked if the Mujahideen were rocketing cities, the Hezb-i-Islami Amir said that they were much concerned about human lives. Had it not been so, most of the cities would have been captured by this time. "We have issued strict orders to the Mujahideen to refrain from hitting the civilian targets ", he said.
I am standing on the top hill security post of Spin Buldak garrison surrounded by plain valley The hill is of strategic importance as the few troops stationed at the security post can forecast the attack from any side.
Spin Buldak, a main town and border cantonment of
southern Afghanistan is 13 kilometre away from Pak-Afghan border. Both the town and the cantonment are chained by security posts where the Kabul troops were stationed under the command of Asmatullah Mulsim, now he is called Asmatullah Tasleem" (defeated). Spin Buldak is the area of Noorzai and Achakzai tribes who are
“My advice to Najib is to either leave the county or surrender to the Mujahideen", he added. He told that those who voluntarily join the Mujahideen will enjoy full protection and support of the Mujahideen. Adding that those who had already surrendered to the Mujahideen were under full protection
No party could come into power in Afghanistan without the support or participation of H I.A., he declared.
Commenting on Arman Hammar shuttling between Islamabad, kabul and Moscow, he said that would be fruitless unless it was between Mujahideen and Moscow.
Commander Pahalawan Nick Mohammad on the right who led the group to enter the Spin Buldak garrison. Building at the background is part of the Spin Buldak garrison.
The Mujahideen Monthly
18
November 1988