The Mujahideen September 1991	Page	44
continuation of polarized ideological globe of fantasies nor for the celebrated cold-war era. It is a call for the old law of checks and balances which has been the most effective method of natural preservation of all existences. Absolute power from any ideological camp corrupts absolutely. The destruction of Soviet influence in the name of a so-called philosophy of re-structuring and ambiguous policy of openness, on a planet full of political conflicts and economic hazards and without any available alternative, is surely pushing the whole world to the brink of nemesis.
Here again, Mikhail demonstrated his geo-strategic blindness. He refused to take decisive positions commensurate with his authority or that of the Communist Union during crises. He was contented to play the role of an American fiddle and nothing appeared enjoyable to him than dedicatedly fulfilling the aims and ambitions of Western powers.
This was the peak of Communist dialectical anti-thesis. Instead of Capitalism destroying itself through excess economic productions and conflicting political objectives, as prophesied by Karl Marx himself, Communism has crumbled in the Soviet Union on thcbasisofilsrigidilyasmuch
as lack of initiatives and foresightedness and similarly the sell-out-policies of its leadership in exchange for a few dollars.
If Moscow had performed its role responsibly, Baghdad would never have risked the ordeal of invading
Kuwait, and the catastrophe of the Gulf crisis would have remained a dream. The failure of the Kremlin under Mr. Gorbcchev for allowing the manipulation of the UNO in achieving Capitalist design and the involvement of the Security Council as an extension of NATO, created a dangerous geo-political instability as demonstrated, between August 2, 1990 and January 15, 1991.
The world was close to a nuclear holocaust and innocent people were exposed to highly destructive biological and chemical weapons on a massive scale. The patched-up trust and confidence in the UNO as a peacekeeping and cease-fire body was lost. Its role as global-stabilizer was eroded and the old reputable international community in Geneva became a standing committee of the American Congress in Washington.
Similarly, by betraying the responsibility reposed in him, the Soviet president gave the United States ample opportunities to unilaterally speak about the so-called New Global Order. By so doing, Moscow became an active abetter of Zionist supreme hegemony in the world. Since Baghdad presented herself as too unwilling to serve further in the court of global imperialism, her destruction therefore was a priority. The connivance of Soviet leadership was certainly of a higher importance in neutralizing the danger posed by the huge Iraqi military machine to the existence of Israel in the region. The "liberation" of Kuwait was a bait at not provoking international condemnation and as a facade towards creating Zionist new global order.
The coup plotters who removed Mr. Gorbcchev erred too by underestimating American influence in a post-Gulf war world. Most of them were old Communist stalwarts who served in various capacities in the preperestroika Union. This conservative
group now referred to as Communist fundamentalists believed nothing could stand on their ways if the president of the crumbling nation could be successfully removed. The latter they did by prosecuting the ill-fated power-transfer conspiracy and maintained it for about 72 hours, but not only external bigpowers opposed them, almost everything in the former Union of Soviet socialist republics stood in their ways.
The ringleaders of such a poorly planned plot did not only have no touch with the people but eventually lost contact with their immediate juniors who could have mitigated the effect of their common unpopularity and extend the duration and geographical radius of a brilliant temporary victory. That was why the Russian president Boris Yeltsin in Moscow, could comfortably refuse to recognize them, making the leaders of almost every republic to reject them and no administrative quarter would obey too. The coup therefore, was already doomed even before commencement.
Another thing which also contributed to its total failure was the direct consequence of Gorbechev’s dcscentralization. Hitherto, it would have been possible to stay in Moscow and issue orders which would be symmetrically executed throughout the Communist organizational heirarchy,but gone were the days. The old brigades could not understand that perestroika and glasnost were meant among other things to forestall a similar take-over by the die-hards.
Repercussions of these tactical misconceptions of a Union divided against itself were far reaching. It temporarily removed, if not permanently obliterated any possibility of a Soviet-return to theold ideological power-status. Similarly, it gave the West undeserving edge and primacy on global platform. It has created the rule of a unit superpower pending the advent of an iron-will challenger. Finally, oppression, injustice and exploitation would be the language of the Western victors until the Muslims come to the rescue.
The world was close to a nuclear holocaust and innocent people were exposed to highly destructive biological and chemical weapons on a massive scale. The patched-up trust and confidence in the UNO as a peace-keeping and cease-fire body was lost. Its role as global-stabilizer was eroded and the old reputable international community in Geneva became a standing committee of the American Congress in Washington.