The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page20 I
Fails to Make Headway
It seems as if United Nations secretary General’s formula for solution of Afghan problem has met with a complete failure as almost all major political organization of Afghan Mujahideen and military commanders have rejected his plan, terming it as totally unjust and impracticable.
Meanwhile Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar Amir of Hezb-e-Islami Afghanistan has proposed formation of a transitional government compri-
r
Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar is of the opinion that replacement ofNajib regime by a transitional government comprising of judges and university professors could pave the way for the solution of Afghan problem. Such a transitional government \ should be given the task of arranging elections and handing over power to an elected government within a stipulated period. He, however, has ruled out any role forNajib and ex-mo narchZahir Shah in the future political set-upof Afghanistan.
during his recent visit to Peshawar, Engineer Hekmatyar told a mammoth Jumah congregation at Shamshatu refugee camp at Peshawar, that he made it clear to Mr. Jacobi that any solution of Afghan problem imposed from outside would be resisted with full force and it would never crown with success.
Engineer Hekmatyar said that Afghans should be allowed to determine their own future and also made it clear that even if all superpowers agreed on an imposed solution, Afghans would resists the same till last man.
sing of Judges and professors after removal of the Najib regime and this transitional government should be entrusted with the task of holding election within a stipulated period and transfer of power to an elected Islamic government.
Giving resume of his talks with Swiss secretary of state for foreign Affairs Klaus Jacobi
Commenting on the formula of the UN secretary General for solution of Afghan problem Engineer Hekmatyar said that the aim of his plan in the name of political solution was to start an intra-Afghan dialogue between the communists, the Mujahideen and the Afghans who fled to Europe and America when brave people of Afghanistan were fighting against Soviet aggression on their homeland. Engineer Hekmatyar said that all Mujahideen were opposed to such a dialogue
because Najib and his party was responsible for the massacre of the Afghan and destruction of their homeland.
He declared that Najib and his supporters would not be allowed to play any role in any future set up as Mujahideen were against formation of any coalition government with communists.
He vowed to continue Jihad until the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Meanwhile according to A. N. A Engineer Hekmatyar has also ruled out any role for former Afghan monarch Zahir Shah during his meeting with Swiss secretary of state for foreign Affairs, because he had no role in the resistance.
Amir of Hezb-e-Islami also told Mr. Jacobi that Loya Jirga had never been a social or political institution in the history of Afghanistan. Such Jirgas were used to be formed by the previous despotic regimes, in which they assembled their henchmen for the justification of their misrule. Further elaborating his point, Mr. Hekmatyar informed Swiss secretary for foreign affairs that those who were advocating Loya Jirga were infact afraid of the verdict of their nation, because they have no footing in the Afghan masses.