The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990

THE COMMUNIQUE OF HEZB-I-ISLAMI AFGHANISTAN (in relation to Herat incidence)
The Executive Committee of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) in an extraordinary session on April 8th, 1990 convened with respect to the April 6th epoch-making event in Pashtoon Zarghoon district of Herat Province, decided that the families of all those Mujahideen martyred in this victorious operation must be rewarded in the best possible way for the unprecedented chivalry of their sons. Each Mujahid should be awarded posthumously with a medal of pride which is awarded to those Mujahideen who evinced marvellous excellence in the performance of Jihad activities. In addition to this their names would be recorded in the Book of the Glorious Heroes of Jihad.
The regime had wanted to show that the so-called process of reconciliation was making headway successfully, particularly after the March 6 army uprising which had in fact shattered the morale and prestige of the regime. The importance of such an event had become paramount for the regime because they desperately needed to dispense with the hang-over of the jolt which the army had inflicted on it and to show that the situation had returned to
normalcy.
Our brave and faithful Mujahideen managed to nip the conspiracy of the enemy in the bud with their timely and revolutionary action and proved to the world that the Mujahideen have the capability to foil any plot hatched against the Jihad and to punish the traitors.
The Executive Committee of the HIA advises all the Jihad forces to be extraordinarily cautious in elections of commanders and other posts in the Jihad fronts and take such measures to preempt the penetration of moles in their ranks who would one day damage the fronts from inside and thus bring bad name to the Mujahideen and the Jihad in general.
At a time when batch after batch of the military officers are joining the ranks of the Mujahideen, the Jihad forces must notallow traitors to penetrate their ranks who will later on join the demoralized Russian-installed regime and thus delay the process of the surrender of the army to the Mujahideen and the collapse of the moribund regime of Kabul.

No Human Rights in Afghanistan
Political murders are a common
By Faqir Ahmad
According to “US Department of State Annual Human Rights Report(1989)”, Human Rights conditions in Afghanistan have never been good, but in 1989 when Gen. Najib regime declared state of emergency on 17th Feb., 1989 the situation has been worse. As the US embassy in Kabul was closed in Feb. 1989 this report is based on the complaints of Afghan citizens. This year in Afghanistan violations of human rights have been at the peak.
place matter and are committed invariably. In prisons political opponents are hanged extra-judicially or after summary trials with the chance of no legal defence.
Disappearance of persons from Kabul and other cities is rampant. People disappear mostly as a result of the fear of impressment into military services by the regime. The regime’s agents also kidnap dissidents and later kill them in deserts or exile them. The Kabul
authorities are also involved in torture and cruel treatment given to political opponents. They are tortured by electric shocks, long sleep deprivation, beatings and immersion in water practised in prisons and forts.
Political dissidents are frequently arrested without show of warrant of arrest	They are kept
incommunicado even for years having no legal facility to question the legality of their arrest About 3000 political prisoners are kept in jails including Pul-e Charkhi prison.
After the declaration of emergency the state of the right to privacy of family is more deplorable. Telephones are frequently	tapped and
correspondence censored.
There is no freedom of Press and speech in Afghanistan today. Radio andTVare only govemmentpropaganda machines. Afghanis are always guarded when speak lest they might involve themselves in a difficult situation. Western radio transmissions are always jammed but sometimes they do get through.
There is also no freedom of peaceful assembly and association in the country. No free trade unionism is tolerated in the footsteps ofCommunist Russia. PDPA has monopoly on power which is against the ideal of democracy.
According to observers forced labour is also prevalent in the country and labour condition in factories is unsatisfactory as there is no freedom of strike and bargain.
In Afghanistan of today there is also no guarantee of the right to property. Homes and property are often confiscated by the regime on political grounds. Cases in this respect have been witnessed by several individuals who are residents of the country but have requested not to be named in public. The prospects of improvement in human right situation in Afghanistan seems bleak; at least uptil the time the present Najib regime lasts.
Page 39