In the meanwhile, the Mujahideen are reported to have captured the sub-divisional town Bakva in the east of Farah city It was learnt that Seven Parly Afghan Alliance Mujahideen launched joint operation on October 5. The Kabul troops stationed at the Bakva town fled away without putting up any resistance. Heavy arms and ammunition left by the fleeing force was captured by the Mujahideen.
MUJAHIDEEN SURROUND QALAT GHILZAI ON KABUL-QANDAHAR HIGHWAY
After capturing the provincial headquarter of Paktika. the Mujahideen have narrowed the siege of Qalat Ghilzai on Kabul-Oandahar highway. the headquarter of Zabul province
The AAP sources report that the Mu|ahideen. on October 7. broke the first defence line by capturing the military camp in Shora area in Qalat Ghilzai The Kabul troops stationed at the security camp fled away as the Mujahideen launched operation by rockets and missiles. A total of 15 kalashnikov rifles, one long range gun and ammunition was seized by the Mujahideen Three days earlier, the Mujahideen had shot down the Soviet helicopter which was carrying supplies for the besieged troops in Qalat Ghilzai
The political circles of the resistanc movement say that Kabul-Qandahar highway can totally be blocked by capturing Qalat Ghilzai, which will further mount pressure on Qandahar.
MUJAHIDEEN	LAUNCH
ROCKET ATTACK ON QANDAHAR CANTT
In the Afghan provinces of
Helmand and Qandahar, the Mujahideen wiped out a security post besides damaging a Khad office during the guerilla operations.
According to the AAP sources, a group of urban guerilla Mujahideen conducted rocket attack on Qandahar cantonment from the military camp of Qila Murad on the morning of October 9 The Khad office in Qandahar cantonment was badly damaged by rocket fire where four officials including an officer were killed The Mujahideen captured the military camp of Oila Murad two days earlier as a result of which the link between Qandahar cantonment and the airport was cut off The military camp was still in the occupation of Mujahideen till the report of October 12
Another report from Helmand province adds that the Mujahideen, on October 7. destroyed a security post near sub-divisinal town Yakh Chal on the highway leading towards Herat During the fierce fighting lhe puppet troops stationed at the security post fled away towards provincial headquarter Lashkargah carrying several dead bodies and the injured A tank and a truck were also destroyed by rocket fire in the operation. The Mujahideen seized sizeable quantity of arms and ammunition from the security post
GUERILLA OPERATIONS IN SAMANGAN
In the north Afghan province of Samangan, the Mujahideen seized heavy arms and ammunition when they attacked two security posts near Aibak, the provincial headquarter
According to the reports the fierce clash resulted in the killing and injuring of ten Kabul troops while a Mujahid was martyred and three others sustained injuries The operation was conducted by the Mujahideen of Hizb-e-lslami and Jamiat-e-Islapni. The Mujahideen conducted shelling on Aibak cantonment, as a result of which two official buildings and military installations were severely damaged
SOVIET TRANSPORT PLANE DOWN AT KHOST
The Khost front in Paktia province is again gaining the momentum which had attracted the world media in the beginning of the year
The AAP sources report that large number Mujahideen led by commander Eng Faiz Mohammad,	Commander
Hazarat Mohammad and Maulana Jalauddin Haqqani of Paktia province are engaged at Khost It was learnt that a Soviet transport plane was shot down by heavy machine gun when it was landing at Khost airport The plane was hit by a Mujahid Daulat Khan under the command of Mannan Kochi. The transport plane crashed at the place Ghalang in the north-west of Khost killing the pilot and the crew on the spot, on October 11. The Khost front is equally important for both Mujahideen and invading Soviet authorities where the armoured units had to suffer heavy losses during the fierce fighting in January last. The political circles of the resistance movement are of the opinion that after the occupation of Khost, the troops of Kabul regime cannot make long resistance at Gardez and Pul-e-Alam Moreover the Pakistan will
The Mujahideen Monthly
77
November 1988