country. What change has taken place that the series of migration and wanderingness should end and that the refugees should return to their homes with dignity? Have the Russian froces left our country that refugees should return? Has the puppet government of Najib been -overthrown that our people should leave a sigh of relief and go back to their homes’ After these two causes of the war in Afghanistan are removed and the flames of fighting are extinguished our people will return with assurance and dignity to their destroyed houses and villages. Our people have risen for the liberation of their country, the expulsion of foreign forces and the establishment of an Islamic government. And for the achievement of these goals they have endured the hardships of this protracted war and have been patient with all the deprivations, agonies, martyrdoms and wanderingess. We wonder which one of these goals has been achieved that our Mujahid nation should lay down its arms and stop the struggle?
Instead of addressing the- refugees, Najib should ask the Russians how long bombing will persist? How long innocent people will continue being driven out of their homes and houses and villages will remain exposed to destruction. He should address himself and his comrades how long will they remain at the serfice of the Russians, how long will they remain slave to the aliens and how long will their hostilities with the nation continue? It is enough. Leave this ns trim alone.
But the pathetic mass exodus of refugees does not grieve the conscience of these flinty elements? They don't take pity on the plight of the refugees whose houses have been destroyed, farms and harvests burned and their everthing lost and who have no other way but to migrate to the neighbouring countries. But still these refugees are followed by the savage Russian forces and their meric-less agents and bombed and strafed by SU-25s and gunship helicopters. The caravans of these refugees are ambushed and women and children are mericilessly massacred.
Shorn of all human sympathies and
consideration the Kaoul rulers are in no mood to stop indiscrimnate bombardments of villages and refugees caravans, Rather they are collously taunting the refugees for receiving aid from foreign chairty organisations. What a ridiculous gimmick! Who could oe decieved by such empty words? Who doesn't know what is the root-cause of their miserable odyssey and who degraded our self-respecting and high-headed nation? bore surprisingly, Najib calls the present conflict as a fighting between two Muslim groups and insists on the reconciliation between them.
Indeed the fighting is between the occupying Russian forces who have installed their agent regime and our Mujahid nation who does not want to knuckle down to slavery and accept living under an infernal Communist regime
If any Afghan fights alongside the aggressive Russian forces is neither Afghan nor the faithful; he may be a helpless fellow taken prisonei either from his house, office, classrom, farms or factory and sent, to the army barracks which are surrounded by anti-personnel mines meant to prevent his desertion. In the course of fighting too he is placed in the forefront so as to be the fuel of war on the one hand and should reluctantly fire against the Mujahideen on the other hand. And in case of failure he becomes target of the bullets of the Russian army which occupies the back lines of the battlefield.
We wonder on what reasons Najib calls it a fighting between two Muslim groups and tries to quote from the Holy Quran which he cannot recite correctly let alone understand its meanings. No doubt, on one side of this war is our faithful nation. But tell me who is on the opposite side? Are the Russians or PDPA the Muslims? The Russian leader recently reprimanded officials and members of the Communist Party in Toshkant for their participation in religious riutals. He told them to sternly deal with the religious phenomenon. And as for the PDPA it is a Maists-Leninist party and is based on atheism.
Have the Russians become Muslims or the Khalq party has renounced Commu-
The Mujahideen Monthly
10
Jan - Feb 1987