gttttg

The Mujahideen , Apr ill May, 1990

HIA's position statement
following the Kabul Uprising
O
n March 6 the Afghan Army decided to side with the people of Afghanistan and stage a military uprising againsttheGen.Najibregime. According to reports that day the Presidential Palace
To those who extend helping hands to Mujahideen to achieve this goal and stand beside the Mujahideen on their part, we assure our full support and cooperation.
Presidential Palace is under heavy bombardment and is also being shelled by the cannons and tanks.
The majority of army divisions
Ung. Hekmatyar briefing the press on March 7 about the Kabul Uprising
had been heavily bombarded and fighting was continuing in the streets of Kabul.
Engineer Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, addressed a press conference in Islamabad and declared his full support to the army uprising and directed all personnel of the Afghan Army loyal to Hezb-i-Islami and Mujahideen around Kabul and elsewhere to fully support the army in toppling the regime as it will finally pave the way for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Following is the full text of the policy statement released by theAmir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan on March 6, 1990, the first day of the Kabul Uprising:
"In the name of Allah, the Merciful.
We support every effort that leads to the toppling of Kabul regime which could result in the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Most of the Afghan army officers are fed up with war. They held the Kabul regime responsible for the blood letting in Afghanistan. Neither do they want any more of the blood letting of their people at their own hands nor do they desire to fight against their own nation. Therefore they have decided to stand beside the people and they seek to employ every opportunity to topple the Kabul regime. The army’s uprising attempt against the Kabul regime stems from such feelings and decisions.
. We advise all army officers who are loyal to Hezb-i-Islami to seize this opportunity, play an active role in the overthrowing of the Kabul regime, and back those who are trying to overthrow the Kabul regime and want to join hands with the Mujahideen. God willing, the wicked Kabul regime will fall as a result of this attempt.
The arm y and the air force have jointly risen against Gen. Najib; the
Page 9
near Kabul have risen against the regime and arc being backed by the army divisions stationed in the countryside.
The role of those army personnel who are taking part in this attempt to overthrow the Kabul regime in order to bring the war to an end will be greatly appreciated by the Afghan Nation.
For the army officers who are taking part in this attempt, we consider this deed to be sufficient to compensate for their past, and it will be assumed that being a part of the Afghan Army they were forced to fight against their own people.
It is high time that the whole Afghan nation stands firm to bring down this hated regime and by doing so bring the war to its end.