The Mujahideen, September, 1991
& Page 19
mmmmt
MEMORANDUM
Here ,we at the Mujahideen are reproducing a brief survey of the major discussions that occupied the participating members of the 20th session of the {OIC} Foreign Ministers meeting in Istanbul, Turkey, 1991, as seen from the view point ofMotamar Al-Alam Al-Islami first founded in Mecca A l-Mukar amah in 1926 and now based in Karachi. The ideas were extracted by Yasin Murtadah and presented by Abu Abdurahman
20TH ANNUAL SESSION OF THE ISLAMIC CONFERENCE OF FOREIGN MINISTERS {OIC} AT ISTANBUL (TURKEY) 4TH TO
8TH AUGUST 1991
Yasin Murtadah and Abu Abdur Rahman
Dr. lnamullah Khan; the Secretary General of World Muslim Congress writes:
Today the Muslim countries form nearly one-third of the UN’s membership. But due to lack of proper unity in our ranks, we do not carry enough weight in the world’s fora which, otherwise, would have made us holders of the balance of power in all important matters. Due to various reasons, including lack of enough knowledge, we today only imitate others, whereas we were once the standard-bearers of learning, science and technology. A turn-about is badly needed, without loosing the much-needed forward-look.
PALESTINE PROBLEM
The OIC extensively discussed the Palestinian issue and once again re-asserted the fact that: Al-Quds and occupied lands are Muslim territories and that Zionists occupation does not alter this basic fact what so ever and that the Islamic Ummah is duty bound before Allah and humanity to continue its struggle and to exert all efforts to secure the liberation of these usurped lands. The Muslims warmly appreciate the sincere and just struggle (including that of the
Intifadah) of the people of Palestine, especially the active part played by the entire populace and the martyrdom of youngsters apd the womenfolk, for attaining the inalienable basic rights of the people of Palestine.
In the matter of latest efforts for peace settlement it looks that Israel is bent upon blackmailing others in this regard. Israel is asking US a series of concessions or assurances. Israel is asking USA and the Arab world to stop complaining about the Jewish settlements in the occupied territories and is demanding US $10 billion in loan guarantees for the settlement of Soviet Jewish emigrants. Israelis also want assurances that they would not be pressured into trading land for peace. They also want permanent assurances on the matterof occupied Golan Heights and won’t agree on any negotiations on peace in the Middle East.
Is it not time that we, the people and the governments of the Ummah Islamiyah, take stock of the new situations and ask ourselves as to why this and similar other things are happening to us? The answer is simple: our disunity and insincerity.
The Arabs have gone more than extra mile for peace. Very recently in July 1991, the four front-1 ine Arab States—Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Saudi Arabia — have agreed to a Series of conditions and compromising attitude. Compared to this apparently humiliating Arab flexibility the Israelis posture is most rigid high handed and negative. The crucial issue of the ‘intifadah’ for a genuine Palestinian state seems to be out of question now. And w ith American presidential election due next year, it is doubtful if, for the sake of the Arabs, Mr. Bush would be willing to annoy the powerful Zionist lobby in USA.