By Gulzar Mashkoor
The Barikot battle
Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar, Vice Chairman of the
Defence Committee.
December 27, had blazed up the grira memory of Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the hearts of the Mujahideen animating them to strike at the Soviet bases as a revengeful measure. The Barikot battle was reflective of the same psyche, whose inner fire had balanced up the chill all around.
Barikot, located opposite Aran-do, border t6wn of Chitral, has been a stimulant point for the Mujahideen for the 'last eight
years. The Hezb-iHslami /Mghanis-tan’ men led by Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar, Vice-Chairman of Defence Committee, and three senior commanders Abdul Ghafoor Abadi, Major Ubaidullah Khan Khoshyar. and Mohammad Daoud of Safaq, Sayed Jamaludin Afghani, Kamdish Fronts and Hazrat Hamzah Brigade moved up to the surroundings of Barikot on Dec. 24 to clear anti-personnel mines, booby traps, and toy-bombs in antici-
pation of the onslaught.
Thick dark clouds shadowing the Barikot deep vallies and high snowcapped mountains, augured well for the Mujahideen who were safe from the whizzing of helicopters and jets.
The freedom fighters said, Kashmir Khan Rahmatyar planned with the three mentioned commander to attack the Brigade and all the posts around it, but the heavy snowfall fear of mines and the chilly weather made them change the plan. After studying the enemy position they planned to attack the three strategic bases: Battalion No. Ill, Spin Ghar and Doka-lam posts, and the Barikot brigade itself.
The clearance of routes called for both prowess and courage. The groping of mines and booby-traps in the snowlayers was a terrible job. Engineer Musafar, Gul Akber Khan and Khan Zareen, Abdul Ghafoor Khadim, Pir Mohammad and Yar Mohammad were deputed on this uphill task and it took them about 48 hours to finish it. However, Musafar, Gul Akbar Khan and Khan Zareen were injured when a mine blasted under Gul Akber Khan's feet, and’ the incident delayed the attack for one day.
Next morning the plan was chalked out by Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee:	Sayed
Jamaludin Afghan and Shafaq Fronts were to attack Battalion No. Ill, while the Mujahideen of Hazrat Hamzah and Kamdish Front were to strike at the Barikot headquarters, artillery unit. Battalion No. I, and anti-aircraft unit with 75mm and 82mm cannons
The Mujahideen Monthly
16
Ian. - Feb 1987