are countless.
It starts from common violations of simple principles of logic, to violent opposition to all sane suggestions. These are besides state sponsored terrorism and exploitative capital economies. All dissenting rational voices are treated with brutality and any movement at variance with oppression are subjected to calculated international blackmail. The failure of the League of Nations and the impotency of its veto-riddled heirs of today, are enough a testimony to the hypocrisy in Western style of democracy and of the unresolved contradictions in Eastern form of religious ritualism and philosophical dialectics.
The upheaval in Afghanistan is not just a quest for a change by removing an unpopular and muderous regime from authority. Nor it is a mere guerrilla warfare confined to a new place by the limited circumference of its base. This is rather a struggle by a global movement which is prepared to querry the validity of everything in the so-called modem concept of freedom and justice. The objective as it, surpasses those artillery bursts around the besieged cities of Kabul Kandahar, Nangarhar, Jalalabad and liberated city of Khost.
This is a struggle moving under the code-name of Jihad. It is the peak of Divine message in salvaging humanity from its own self-made world of iniquity. Islam ic revolution can be described with certainty as a process, encompassing in space, perpetual in time, logical in scope.
The Mujahideen, September /1991 universal in goals and very much fundamental in essence. These are the pearls of Afghan armed resistance when advanced towards its completion, and the credence of any Islamic organization should be confirmed through these characteristics.
For the uprising in Afghanistan to be fully comprehended, its doctrinal and military parameters must well be understood. Similarly, the operative dynamics of its subtle methodology deserves brilliant geo-political and lucid historical evaluations. Islamic Jihad is a revolution that vibrates uniquely on a particular wave length and progresses in life on a definite time-pattern.
The movement is eventually forced by these constant factors to operate beyond personal craving for pleasure or political squabbling for power. It even goes beyond individual freedom or communal liberty. Admittedly these last two are precious attributes for social-equlibrium in a locality, but become minor issues when weighed against supreme universal order for justice and peace.
The freedom of a country and its untempered state of sovereignty are deserving, but for the world to be permanently at rest there is need for a more elaborate application of the natural principle of sanity. Humanity must be accorded the same footings before opportunities and litigations, so that the universe as a whole will reap back the best qualities of its parts. The Jihad in
Page 31
Afghanistan wants to destroy present socio-political anomalies starting from the despot who’s ruling in Kabul. The struggle seeks to eliminate all monopolies of power and eradicate the exploitative tendencies of capital. Everybody will ultimately be free from denial, then given back the chances of developing his talents to the fullest. The revolution wants all men to have a say in the future of his globe.
By these standards, Western democracy is currently nothing more than a paper tiger and its goals are at best a tournament of shadow-boxing. The persistent international intrigues of its propagandists have cost it the confidence of global electorates. Men are equal in as much as the West is a victim and the people should have their say when Western world is bound to win. Freedom fighters may overnight be branded terrorists, if they dare challenge the global order, and dynamic leaders are given bad names, if the majority of the oppressed populace supports their case.
Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan {HIA} is an example which is presently facing a barrel of allegations from the West. Two years ago, the Mujahideen were hailed for their heroic engagements against the communists.
No sooner the leadership of this party announced his intention to carry the Jihad further, in liberating the denied masses of our time, the West changed their tune and message. The principles of justice and liberty were blatantly violated. Though Germany has been allowed to unite again without firing a single bullet-shot, and Eastern Europeans are free today including the three former communist Baltic States through agreed continental arrangement. But Azerbaijan cannot go and Palestinians still have no home in a world that claims men are equal. If democracy reall y stands for the people ’ s verdict, why denying the Afghans their birth rights of liberty and self-determination? Why protecting Kabul with the most lethal weaponry in spite of global call for freedom and justice. Where then is democracy?
Afghan struggle is the latest expression of a world-wide popular
She was also a victim of global conspiracy in Afghanistan