leaders, especially Gandhi and Nehru, conspired with the last viceroy of British India, Lord Mountbatton, to delink Kashmir and the North West Frontier Province (NWFP) from Pakistan. Lord Mountbatton, who was personally hostile to the Qaid-i-Azam and against the
Muslim demand for the establishment of Pakistan, prevailed upon some of the rulers of the princely states to accede to India, while otherprincely states such as Hyderabad and Junagar were forcefully occupied by India.
As the first practical step to achieve their objective in Kashmir, the Congress through the good offices of Mountbatton secured from the infamous British jurist. Sir Cyrill Radcliffe, Chairman of the Boundary Commission, an award in favour of India in the Punjab, which, in the words of Qaid-i-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, was “an unjust, incomprehensible and even perverse award.” As a result, India was provided with a link to the state of Jammu and Kashm ir that paved the way for the most bitter dispute between India and Pakistan.
When the Kashmiris knew of
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990	8©
the intrigue of the Congress Party and Mountbatton, their sole spokesman and only representative political organization, the All-Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Conference, held a meeting at Srinagar on 19th July 1947, and adopted the historic resolution, popularly known
as Accession to Pakistan, whereby it demanded of the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir state to declare the state’s accession to Pakistan. The Maharaja was further warned that if he did not accede to Pakistan, the Muslims who were in a predominant majority would revolt against him and launch a struggle with all the power at their command. The anti-Muslim activities of the Maharaja and the Muslim massacres by the Maharaja’s army forced the freedom-loving Muslims of Jammu and Kashmir to rise in armed revolt against the despotic rule of the Hindu and Dogra Sikh dynasty. They routedout the Maharaja’s armies and on their march to freedom, won victory after victory. By the third week of October 1947, they had liberated more than one-third of the state territory, and on 24 October 1947 had established their provisional revolutionary government the Azad Kashmir Government with Sardar Muhammad
Ebrahim Khan as President.
In utter despair and frustration, the Maharaja fled from his capital, Srinagar, and took refuge in Jammu as a fugitive. It was there that, on 26th October 1947, he signed and executed in India’s favor the illegal, immoral, and unconstitutional instrumcntof accession, which V.P. Menon, Secretary of State of the Government of India, had brought from New Delhi. As already planned, but on the pretext of this document, which was based on fraud and violence, India airlifted its troops to Srinagar on 27 October 1947 and sent her forces to other parts of the state. This was, in fact, a naked armed aggression against a people who had been struggling and 7* rendering unprecedented sacrifices for freedom and who had linked their destiny with that of Pakistan. By all canons of international law, justice, and fair-play, Kashmir is both territorially and ideologically an inseparable part of Pakistan.
Kashmir and UNO
______________&
When India failed to crush the victorious march of the freedom fighters, she invoked Article 35 of the Charter of the United Nations at the doors of the Security Council on 1 st January 1948 with the baseless complaint that Pakistan was the aggressor in Kashmir. Pakistan also invoked Article 35 of the UN charter and filed a counter-complaint in the United Nations against India on 15th January 1948, and exposed Indian designs and the massacre of the Muslims inKashmirandelsewhereinlndia. India eventually faced disgrace and humiliation and was forced to accept a UN resolution for holding of a plebiscite in Kashm ir in a free and impartial manner under the auspices of the United Nations. Ever since then, India has, on the one hand, continued to make pledges to implement the UN resolutions on Kashmir while, on the other hand, she has spared no efforts to frustrate UN initiatives to carry out its responsibilities to make arrangements for the holding of the plebiscite.
Page 32