also be safe to some extant at its western border from Soviet pressure after the Mujahideen's control in the provinces of Kunar, Logar, Paktia and Paktika.
SITUATION IN KUNAR VALLEY
The Mujahideen sources have claimed that they have gained final victory in Kunar province after getting control of subdivisional headquarters Chokai, Khan Ghundi and Babro Kundak
According to the sources hundreds of kalashnikov rifles, heavy arms and military supplies were seizd by the Mujahideen
MUJAHIDEEN OPERATION ON SALANG HIGHWAY
The Afghan freedom fighters stormed at a mobile force and captured heavy arms during the attack near sub-divisional headquarter Khinjan of Baghlan province, 162 kilometre from Kabul
The AAP sources report that during the operation, on October 9, nine troops including a Soviet were killed while a machine gun and 14 kalashnikov rifles were seized. In the same area a commander of Kabul regime joined the ranks of Mujahideen alongwith his two companions. Mujahid commander Soofi Painda Mohammad Khan was leading the Mujahideen.
SOVIET BOMBING NEAR JALALABAD
After capturing ten security posts on Kabul-Jalal bad highway, the Soviet planes are bombing the Mujahideen positions in Sarobi area.
According to the reports six
Mujahids and several civilians were martyred during the bombing while over 60 houses turned into rubble in the rural localities.
KABUL	RADIO
CONTRADICTORY REPORTS
The state controlled Radio of Kabul regime has contradicted its own broadcast by denying and confirming the Mujahideen's occupatin of Asadabad the headquarter of Kunar province
The Kabul Radio during its Pir-hto broadcast denied the Mujahideen claim about the occupation ol Asadabad However, the same day, the Radio confirmed the Mujahideen's occupation in Urdu and English news. According to Radio the puppet regime is holding talk with the "opponents" about Asadabad
MUJAHIDEEN STRATEGY TO LIBERATE PAKTIA PROVINCE
The Mujahideen have again besieged the border cantonment of Khost after ten months in connection with to liberate the Paktia province
The AAP sources giving the details of the Khost front said that the meeting of local commanders associated with Seven Party Alliance held at Jehad Wal base of H I.A, where the plane to capture the Khost garrison was finalised According to the reports, the Mujahideen has constructed concrete bunkers from three sides of Khost cantonment.
OPERATION IN FARAH PROVINCE
The Afghan Mujahideen stormed at a military convoy
near sub-divisional headquarter Khak-e-Safaid in the north of Farah town on October 10.
During the swift attack an armoured vehicle and two jeeps were hit by rocket launchers while seven puppet troops were killed and injured. The Mujahideen moved back before the arrival of reinforcement alongwith two dead bodies of their companions
MUJAHIDEEN CAPTURE SECURITY POST NEAR KHOST
The Afghan Mujahideen have succeeded to capture a remote military centre in the south of Khost front.
The eyewitness told AAP that a group of Mujahideen captured a security post of Spin Kai on October 14 During the operation, a total of n Kabul troops were captured and four others were killed The Mujahideen seized one machine gun and a wireless set besides 18 kalashnikov rifles.
LARGE SCALE DEFECTIONS FROM KABUL TROOPS
The commander of the 9th division of Afghan army Colonel Noor Ahmed, who defected to the Mujahideen with six army officers and 150 troops from Asmar cantonment, said that the Kabul army was day by day collapsing.
The division commander joined the Mujahideen of commander Kashmir Khan of Hezb-i-lslami stated that the number of the Afghan army was fast diminishing despite the campaigns for conscription.
He told AAP in Peshawa'r
The Mujahideen Monthly
48
November 1988