turned out as a horrendous ruin have no other alternative but to show their wrath and indignation by resisting the invaders. Aided by the available weapons they will continue to struggle till the agressors review their stand on the genocidal war and withdraw their forces from our country and put out the flames of this war imposed on us.
We people cannot be hoodwinked by hypocritic offers of ceasefire and reconciliation. Ceasefire with whom? Ceasfire with those who are responsible for the unprecedented pogrom in the world history and ceasefire with those who have ravaged a whole country and still slyly trying to perpetuate their rule by these so-called peaceful means?
Najib! If you are willing to announce a ceasefire with the freedom fighters, why do you not tell the invaders who have deprived us all of our independence which has been a valuable asset to our people for centuries, to vacate our country? Why does your conscience not prick on the slaughter of your people at the instigation of a foreign imperialist power? At least your human feelings should be moved by all these macabre crimes the Russians have been committing in your country.
Look! What the occupation forces are doing with your motherland? How do these invarders behave towards your mothers, sisters and compatriots? You see their hands are stained with the blood of your own defenceless people. You seem to be a senseless on looker to the killings of hundreds of children and women of your motherland who are massacred, buried alive and bombed out. Instead of offering a ceasefire to a people who are struggling to liberate your homeland, you should ask your Russian masters to stop killing your people, stop detroying your country and stop burning your farms, orchards and forests and stop using chemical warfare against your defenceless people.
You call the liberators of your land as miscreants, rebels and belligerent; while you yourself garland the invaders tanks whose chains are stained with the blood of our
defenceless people and you give badges and medals to these Red soldiers who are the killers of your innocent people.
What have Russian tanks brought to your people other then death and destruction to be so profusely garlanded? Whether the Russian forces have defeated the NATO pact forces in a superpower conflict to be given badges and medals of championship?
On the other hand General Najib invites to peace. The peace Najib has proposed at the behest of his Russian masters is as such;
1.	Resitance against the Russian invaders should be stopped
2.	Some opponents of the regime should be convinced to participate in a
Parcham-Khalq brand government and be satisfied with just nominal posts in such a government.
3. The Russian forces should stay as long as such a government is secured in power or until they disarm the nation and remove the chance of uprising for a second time against the puppet government for ever.
4. At last, the Russian forces will withdraw at any time they wish with confidence.
The above mentioned four items are the major conditions of the peace Najib has proposed at the behest of the Russians.
General Najib! Tell me, what do your peace offers mean other than making our people surrender to your Russian masters and vacate their positions which are stained with the blood of 1.1 million of our people and lay down their arms?
Basically the offer of ceasefire should have been made by the Russian and not Najib whose government's full authority rests with the Russian advisors. The question of ceasefire with the Russians can only be discussed, when they withdraw from our country. Ceasefire in the presence of the Russians can only be discussed, when they withdraw from our country Ceasefire in the presence of the Russian forces is tantamount to approving of the Russian's occupation of our country, shameful accomodation and capitulation to the enemy.
General Najib has spoken of releasing
The Mujahideen Monthly
8
Jan - Feb 1987