A house in Mazar-i-Shaiif
9.	Any solution of the Afghanistan crisis based on accomodation and compromise and without genuine involvement of the Mujahideen is unacceptable to our nation and will never solve the problem.
10.	Although the Soviet military presence in Afghanistan has been vehemently condemned in ail UN resolutions by an absolute majority, the Afghan seat in the United Nations is still being occupied by the representative of the puppet Soviet-installed regime, a product of the Soviet intervention. This continued occupation of the Afghanistan seat by an agent of the aggressor is absolutely unjustifiable.
11 .We therefore demand that the representative of the puppet Karmal regime be removed from the UN immediately and the seat be occupied by the Ittehad-e-lslami-e-Mujahideen-e-Afgha-nistan, the united expression off all the Mujahideen of Afghani-tan which commands the support of the entire Afghan nation.
12.We further request that in the interest of strengthening brotherly relations for ouf nation and for the safeguarding' of our legitimate national rights, all the .Supporters of ’ the Afghan cause should recognize Muja-
The Mujahideen Monthly
hideen control • and establish our representation at the various Afghan embassies and consulates, while expelling representatives of the puppet Karmal regime.
13.	The members of the OIC, the Organization of Islamic Conference, are once again requested that the vacant seat of Afghanistan be given to the representative of the Mujahideen Unity, the Ittehad-e-lslami-e-Mujahideen-e-Afghanistan, the sole representative of the all the Mujahideen and the Afghan nation.
14.	We hereby invite the United Nations to send an official delegation to Liberated Afghanistan and so , recognize the destruction caused and crimes
committed by the Soviet forces in Afghanistan. We also offer to the proposed UN delegation a guarantee of their security and comfort during the said factfinding mission inside liberated Afghanistan.
15.Lastly, we wish to express otir profound gratitude to the people and-government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, who over the past seven years have hosted over 3 million Afqhan refugees and extended all possible hospitality to our oppressed people. We likewise thank the people and government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for accepting 1.5 million Afghan refugees there. We would also like to express our gratitude to other friendly countries, humanitarian organizations and the UNHCR for their generous and continued assistance in meeting the needs of the Afghan refugees. We appeal to all the friends of free and independent Afgha nistan to further help the Afghan refugees, the largest number of refugees anywhere in the world, in the areas of shelter, foodstuffs, education, and health and thereby render their moral and humanitarian obligation towards the oppressed nation of Afghanistan.
Victorious be the Afghan Mujahideen!!
Down with Colonialism!!
15