by: Wahdat
rJhe sacred and liberating religion of Islam reached the Indo-Pak subcontinent under the brilliant command of a youthful and courageous 18 year-old Muslim commander Muhammad ben Qassem. That energetic commander carried with him the message of Islam which is the liberator of humankind, the guide to light from darkness and the path to grandeur from humiliation. This message, which is in complete harmony with human nature, entered the ears and occupied the hearts of the people to such fullness and depth that neither the Genghis’ Yasa nor the British iron fist could remove it. Thirst, h unger, torture, death, and the ideologies of Buddhism and Communism were also unable to compel it to surrender.
In the wake of World War II, hopes of liberty and independence were sparked in the hearts of the inhabitants of Mawara-un-Nahr (Transoxiana) but Chinese and Russian Communism dashed these hopes to the ground by the force of the “Sickle and Hammer” and deprived them of their inherent rights. The ideology of the people received the first blows at the hands of Mao because it was considered the backbone and the main spirit of the resistance. But as human nature is the concomitant of humankind, so religion is also an inseparable part of human nature. The name of Allah (S wT) will be hummed as long as life is in existence in Turkistan. Islam has survived in Eastern Chinese-Held Turkistan despite the dominance of the blood-stained bayonet of Yellow Communism as well in Western Russian-HeldTurkistan where itnotonly survived but is also steadily progressing.
Although the name of Eastern Turkistan was changed to Xinkiang by the Chinese Communist rulers, the
people still call it “Islamic Turkistan.” Eastern Turkistan is still predominantly Muslim despite the unparalleled atrocities which it suffered during the Chinese Cultural Revolution. The lovely cry of Allah-u Akbaris still reverberating from the minarets of the mosques in Kashghar, the capital, and in the rest of the Chinese-Held Eastern Turkistan. It forms the largest and the most strategic of China’s five provinces. It’s width is nearly five million square miles, five times larger than Pakistan.
Eastern Turkistan forms a pan of the “roof of the world” and has common borders with India, Pakistan, the Russian-Held Western Turkistan and Afghanistan. It is forming a vital link between China and Central Asia. Its inhabitants include Turks, Uighurs, Qazaqs, Uzbeks, Taj iks, Tartars, Chinese and Russians. The people of Turkistan are Muslims, and 98% of them are Ahl-i-Sunnah wal Jama’ah, and a few Isma’ilites.
The main mine resources in the region include petroleum, gold, silver, brillium, latinium and iron with larger unextracted underground reserves. Due to the vital importance of the region, the Chinese rulers have stationed their atomic and aeronautic plants and centers in this province. Yarqand and Khuttan, due to their important strategic positions, serve as China’s main military bases from where China can easily threaten Afghanistan, Russia, Pakistan and India at the same time. Tashqurghan Peak is 12,000 feet high and is also an important military base.
Khuttan and Kashghar’s ancient rich literary heritage reminds us of Islam’s grandeur and supremacy in Turkistan. Turkish is the language of Turkistan which is comprised of 35% Arabic and Dari words, displaying its
deep and old links with the Muslim world. The first Turkish dictionary was compiled in Eastern Turkistan, and the study of Mawlana Jalaluddin Balkhi’s Mathnawi is still popular there, which is indicative of the influence of Islamic literature. Islamic culture, architecture, arts and civilization still dominate the Chinese modem civilization. Chinese engineers still constructbuildings on the Islamic pattern of architecture. The minarets and domes overlooking the cities do not mean that these cities are full of mosques, but it is a manifestation of the influence and supremacy of Islamic architecture in China.
Communism, in spite of its deceptive slogans, has not brought any good for Eastern Turkistan. Mao and Maoism failed to unite the people under a single banner. Uighurs are still proud of their history, culture, ideology and motherland and even of their muddy old huts. Correspondence, sign-boards and informal letters are now all written in Uighuriand in Arabic script. Indigenous names are applied to everything, and foreign, i. e. Chinese names are gradually being abandoned. All subjects are taught in Uighuri in the schools. Donkeys and donkey-carts are the main vehicles of transportation. In Khuttan’s main parks and squares, under Mao’s huge statues which were erected as the symbol of progress, donkey-carts carrying passengers show what Communism has offered the people; one cannot see a single car passing by. In Kashghar, the capital of Turkistan, you cannot find even 10 cars. Communism’s gifts to the people of Eastern Turkistan have been hunger, prison, torture and indiscriminate massacres.
In Chinese-Held Eastern Turkistan, religion isa living spirit which ignores the geographical boundaries and links the hearts and minds of its
Page 36