Sheikh Tamim Adnani’s Brief background
caliphate on the earth. The Islamic government transfers all authority and decision-making to the faithful masses. On this point, there is some unanimity between Islam and democracy on the formation of goveernments; appointing or deposing of the ruler and the affairs of a country should be decided through elections.”
For those who still have some questions about whether we can apply modern ballot-box techniques to historical Islamic methods of elections, it is clear in the Islamic tradition of “orf” that whatever the Ummah finds to be necessary and useful, if it is not specifically prohibited by the Quran and Sunnah (traditions), it is allowed.
There are many other reasons to have electios based on logic, national history, and social traditions.
Let’s call our Mujahid nation to the poll stations in order to safeguard the blood of our martyrs. As Brother Hekmatyar said, ‘‘Ballots should replace bullets!” Let us put aside the gun, deceit, ruse, hypocrisy, and fakery, and give ballots, the message of peace, comfort, freedom, and social justice, to our people.
The reasons against elections are weak and flimsy and all disappear on simple examination. Elections appear to be the only way to solve the problem of fairly representing	the
multiplicity of ethnic, linguistic, religius and social subdivisions of our country.
Sheikh Tamim Adnani, a great scholar and mujahid, died of a heart attack on October 18, 1989, in Florida, USA. His dead body was shifted to Pakistan and buried in Martyrs’ Graveyard in Pabbi Camp near Peshawar.
Sheikh Adnani was born in Al-Quds in 1942 of a noble family. His grandfather Khurshid Pasha was the governor of Al-Quds in the Uthmanian period, while his father Muhammed Al-Adnani was a 'famous /poet. After the Zionist occupation of Palestine, Sheikh
Adnani’s family migrated to Syria and settled in Halb Al-Shahba. After graduation from Ain-ul Shams University in Cairo he began his professional career as a teacher, and later was attached to the Saudi Airforce.
In the last phase of his life, he became interested in the Afghan Jihad and resigned from his service to participate in jihad in Afghanistan and in Afghan relief agencies in Pakistan. He was a close associate of the mujahid scholar, Sheikh abdullah Azzam Shaheed.
The Mujahideen Monthly will carry a detailed artical in its next issue on the current effort and proposals to establish by election a grand council for Afghanistan.
14
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990