The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
msm
MHI
By F. Kakar Fh. D.
In the Western experience, the system of government, or for the matter, even social justice, has a clearly evolutionary path starting from the Dark Ages. The current Western-style democracy has evolved after ages of autocratic and repressive systems. Because of this, in the Western view, those who seek to have past systems re-installed seem backward and barbarian and are derisively called “fundamentalists.”
“Fundamentalism” is defined as “a movement within any religion or system towards the fundamental doctrine out of which the religion or system has grown.”
In the Muslim collective experience the system of government or social justice which began in the 7 th century A.D. has not taken an ascending evolutionary path to become better over the centuries. On the contrary, the system of government together with social justice in the Muslim experience has followed, in general, a retrogressive path. The caliphate retrogressed into monarchy and familial governments.
During the time of the caliphate, the consent of the governed was absolutely required for the legitimacy of the ruler. Among the two candidates Hazrat 'Ali and Hazrat'Uthman, the latter was chosen to be the caliph by a method of election. Thus, for
a Muslim, looking to the past system is to look to an era that was better and more progressive than what exists. The Western minds, however, because of their orientation and view of their societies’ former governmental systems have a totally different picture of the past as compared to a Muslim. For this reason, in the Western view, “fundamentalism” has a negative connotation, while, for the Muslims, the same word means “seeking the enlightened past.”
This misunderstanding by the Western mind presents a dilemma to them when they hear a Muslim leader such as Hckmalyar, known to the West as a “fundamentalist,” energetically seeking elections as the only solution for the current Afghan political problems. In their minds’ eyes, fundamentalism does not mix with modern electionism, not knowing that electionism is part of the Islamic heritage.
By placing people in categories such as “fundamentalist”, one runs the risk of falsely attributing category characteristics to individual personalities, and, when the category furthermore has different cross-cultural connotations, it certainly seems that it is no longer useful as a category and should not be applied.
Afghan -Jihad leaders most often referred to in the Western ; ^ media as
" fundamentalist s/r From the left, BnSayyaf,
Br. Khalisand Br.Hekmatyar
Page 40