The Mujahideen, September, 1991
\e 06
superpowers been sincere in resolving the Afghanistan problem they should have put an immediate end to the military supplies to both Mujahideen and the Kabul regime.
Maulvi Youns Kahlis said that massive military supplies to the Kabul regime by Moscow are continuing which are being stored for odd times.
He said that there was no reason in setting the date for a halt in military supplies for January next year and added, had the parties been sincere in resolving the problem they should have immediately stopped the military supplies.
He viewed that Moscow will not spare any efforts to guarantee survival of the puppet regime, while on the contrary Mujahideen did not suit the American interests in Afghanistan. He however, maintained that the impact of the cessation of arms will not be negative on Mujahideen rather it would boost their moral because started Jihad with empty bands just for blessing of the Almighty Allah.
He showed pessimism that some friendly countries of Afghanistan will split in different camps and it will aid fuel to the fire in Afghanistan.
He also criticised the visit of UN Security General Perez de Cuelar to Iran and Saudi Arabia and said that his trip was aimed at stopping the financial assistance of Saudi Arabia to Mujahideen. He alleged that the international forum was venturing to force Mujahideen and the puppet regime in an intera-Afghan dialogue.
The ex-deputy chief of NIFA and former AIG education

minister Dr. Fraooq Azam, in an interview with Afgan News Agency termed the agreement as a positive step. He said that the moment the arms supplies are stopped, the Kabul regime will collapse. He said that Mujahideen enjoyed support of the majority of Afghan people while the regime was relying on mercenaries who fought against Mujahideen by dint of massive Soviet supplies.
He said that stoppage of military aid to the parties will not put an end to the war in Afghanistan and Mujahideen are determined and to continue Jihad till removal of the regime and establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
Dr. Farooq Azam predicted an early fall of the puppet regime.
The chief of Jamiat-i-Islami Afghanistan, Prof. Burhanuddin Rabbani, in his reaction said, the agreement on negative symmetry between the two superpowers was not a surprising one. He said that the military aid to Mujahideen was stopped immediately after the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Afghanistan while the puppet regime was being supplied arms by Moscow uptoits teeth and nail. He considered the agreement a step in positive direction.
Prof. Rabbani expressed doubts that Moscow would sincerely honour the agreement and feared that the regime will be supplied military under different pretexts. He feared massive arms induction to Kabul till January next.
He believed that if the Soviet implemented this agreement in true sense and spirit, the collapse of the communist regime will come very close,
Iran Helping
Kabul Regime
A prominent Afghan Shia Mujahideen leader has diclosed that Iran is providing food assistance to the regime of Najib. He said that this help by the Iranian leadership for a communist ruler was against the wishes of the people of Iran as well as the Afghan Mujahideen.
Criticising the food supply to Kabul by Iran, the Afghan Mujahideen leader said neither Iran nor any other country had the right to enter in any talks on behalf of the Afghan Mujahideen or the refugees.
Hujatul Islam Jibraili, a spokesman fo rthe four-party alliance of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen. Hujatul Islam further said his alliance outrightly rejected the recently concluded tripartite talks on the Afghan issue at Tehran. Jibraili made these remarks during an interview with The Frontier Post at his office in Peshawar yeasterday.
The Peshawar-based alliance of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen, Shora-e-Ethtelaf is representing the Herakat-e-Islami, led by Ayatullah Asif Muhsani, Shora-e-luefaq with Ayatullah Syed Nadir Ali Maddavi as its chief, Pesdaran-e-Jihad under Ayatullah Taqadusi and Jabah-e-Mutahid led by Qasmi.
Shora-e-Ehtelaf has also its offices at Quetta and Chitral but it is functioning in low profile. All thesefour parties of the Shia Afghan Mujahideen were bom in Tehran but they shifted their bases to Pakistan more than two year ago. The reason for shifting to Pakistan was the differences they developed with the Iranian leadership. These Mujahideen claim that under interference in their internal affairs by the Iranian leadership made them to come to Pakistan.
