during the early hours of the uprising to demoralize the Mujahideen and to boost the morale of the Najib forces. They claimed through their mass media that the uprising had been thwarted and that Najib was in effective control of the situation.
Their fifth columnists raised a hue and cry inside the Mujahideen ranks that they consider both parties (the Parcham and Khalq factions of the Communist PDPA Party) as enemies and will not support either side.
They were trying to give the impression that officers joining the Mujahideen ranks was impossible, and that dire consequences were expected for those forces and the Mujahideen supporting them. The journalists affiliated with the aforesaid networks mainly concentrated on two points in the Press Conference addressed by Defence Minister Shahnawaz Tanai. The points were:
1 - To project the impression to other military officers in Afghanistan that the Defence Minister is being treated as a POW by the Mujahideen, so that they may refrain from joining the Mujahideen fold.
2-	To force the Defence Minister to confess that he is representing the PDPA, and his bid in joining the Mujahideen of the HIA implicates a coalition between these two parties, and to create suspicions and doubts regarding the HIA. They also wanted him to deny his membership in PDPA, so as to decrease his influence among the PDPA and the officers affiliated with the Khalq faction, thus making him a failure in provoking them against the regime.
Gen. Najib in his first speech after the uprising, maintained thatTanai had sold himself to Hekmatyar’s party, and had escaped only after he had tom up his membership card of the PDPA and thrown away his medals and military uniform. By such propaganda Najib was aiming to show thatTanai’scredentials as an army officer and a PDPA member were ruined, so as to isolate him
The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
both from the PDPA and army.
Our envious rivals and credulous friends also acted in accordance with the wishes of our shrewd enemies. On being sure that the uprising enjoyed the blessings and the support of the HIA, they declared that both of the belligerent parties in Kabul were their enemies so as to refrain from supporting either side, while one of the belligerent parties joined the Mujahideen and bombarded the palace of the ruler of a regime against whom Mujahideen had been waging war for 12 years. Even if we accept that both sides were our enemies then a smart Mujahid must categorize his foes. In the first step he aims at the bigger and more dangerous foe!
When his two enemies are fighting each other he may prefer the victory of one and avail of the defeat of the second one. In such conditions he cannot remain neutral and cannot treat both sides equally.
Wasitnotduring the war between the Roman and Persian empires, the then big two powers and enemies of Islam, that the Omniscient and All-Knowing Allah (S wT) presaged the impending victory of Rome against Persia as a good omen to the Muslims, when He said:
“The Roman Empire.
Has been defeated In a land close by;
But they, (even) after This defeat of theirs,
Will soon be victorious Within a few years.
With Allah is the decision.
In the Past And in the Future :
On that Day shall The Believers rejoice —
With the help of Allah.
He helps whom He will,
And He is Exalted in Might,
Most Merciful — the Rahim.” (Ar-Rum 1-4)
Did feeling joy and pleasure over the victory of Rome against Persia imply a compromise with the enemy? Was the Roman front an Islam ic one, the triumph of which was informed as a good omen? Or is Islam teaching its followers that the enemies should be classified and separated from each other
and thus a preference should be made over the victory of one of them during their internal conflicts?
Our intelligence obliges us to defend the officers who, in a bid against the will of the Russians who are persistent on keeping Gen. Najib at the helm of power, have revolted against him; whose positions were subjected to bombardment and shelling by SCUD missiles from across the northern border; who did not succeed in their attempt because of the direct interference of Russia; and who in the case of victory or otherwise had no option but to rely upon the Mujahideen and surrender to them.
Our credulous and simpleton friends too acted upon the signal from our envious rivals, as our shrewd foes
Page 11