Uprising Changes the Tide
The Mujahideen, April May, 1990
Editorial
At a time when millions of the Afghan Jihad supporters were being drawn into a state of malaise and discouragement due to the lack of any visible Mujahideen advances, and at a time when the forces opposing the Mujahideen had initiated both military and political offensives, a significant military uprising in Kabul backed by the most effective and experienced Mujahideen party changed the tide of history.	*
The military uprising on March 6 led by General Tanai, the Afghan Minister of Defence, rained bombs on Najib’s palace and destroyed the Kabul radio station forcing Najib to flee for his life to the Soviet Embassy. The officers of the uprising who carried out some 150 rounds of bombardment had the clear
t,ng. G. Hekmatyar whose words and deeds facilitated the Kabul Uprising
This military uprising was important
from a variety of angles. Firstly, because the uprising was undertaken with the support of a well-known Mujahideen party and because Gen. Tanai subsequently joined the Mujahideen declaring his determination to oust Najib, the majority of
The Uprising was a severe blow to Najib in terms the Mujahideen of material loss and political embarassment	commanders
to be a morale boosting event for the Mujahideen on the one hand, and on the other hand it scattered the morale of the enemy. The uprising also quickened the pace of Jihad throughout Afghanistan.
Secondly, because an “insider” like Gen. Tanai denounced Najib’s pretences of political legitimacy and exposed the mendacity of his plan for “national reconciliation”, the uprising was a political blow to Najib both at home and in front of the world. Tanai’s account of the atrocious methods used by Najib to hold onto the reins of power reinforced the Mujahideen’sposition that Najib cannot be part of peaceful settlement of the Afghan issue, rendering ineffective the propaganda seeping into the West that Najib could be a reborn
headquarters of the uprising at an early hour, incapacitated their communication
systems, and then destroyed the runways and ammunition depots at Bagram, thus saving Najib.
cut support of the Afghan Army. However, the Soviets,learning in advance about the plan for the uprising, were able to blockade the
viewed the uprising as a great
Mujahideen victory. The uprising proved
Page 3