The Mujahideen, September, 1991	mmmmmmmmmm Page 46
of the advent of Islam such as the first mosque built by the companions of our prophet [may peace and blessings be upon them all.]
Since then onwards Islam had been able to establish it self as the dominant religion with the people. The faith, culture, administration, and commercial ventures were heavily influenced by Islamic tenets, even the languge absorbed a lot of Arabic words and grammatical methods.
CHRISTIANIZATION OF OROMIA
Following the fall of Muslim empire in Oromia at the hands of Ethiopian Christians aided by European powers, Adis-Abbaba tried much to reward its foreign helpers by opening up all avenues for European evangelism.
In the First half of Gregorian Fifteenth century, Oromians were able under the leadership of Imam Ahmad Ibrahim Oromia to establish a completely new socio-political Muslim Institution referred to in history as an Islamic sovereign state, which covered very large geographical space in East Africa and extended likew ise to the eastern part of Ethiopia to a place called Kaslah in Sudan.
That was how Oromia continued to retain its Muslim identity until the last years of 19th century when its Islamic character was destroyed by Christian allied forces.
?------------------ ^
EUROPEAN COLONIALIZATION
AND THE FALL OF OROMIA
IS-------------------------4
State laws were enacted forcing Muslims to forcibly accept Christianity or pay heavy levies in default. Ethiopian missionaries from Europe were encouraged to change Mosques and other religious places into Churches and new Christian religious centers were built on Muslim lands.
Those few Muslims who refused to abandon their faith were given a three-year option of either permanent servitude under Christian lords or exile.
The effects of these persecutions were catastrophic on the people, thelslamic faith and the overal Muslim cultural institutions in East Africa. Many did manage to uphold their faith, defend their honors and bluntly refused to compromise but the greater part of the community even after its unwilling acceptance of the new Christian faith under the threat of untold persecutions was still subjected to the worst type of atrocities. They were denied honorable living as well as necessary facilities and majority of the population was deliberately left without any education or professional training that could serve as basis for another Islamic revival.
Later came Britain and France and from 1884 A.D, Oromians started fighting a tough batde in trying to stop evangelization of what they believe to be an Islamic community by 1891, with the active participation of major European Christian powers which sent trails of machine propelled weapons and advanced ammunitions to Ethiopian Christians. Later Oromo Finally succumbed to Christians colonialization.
Portugal was one of the first European countries to invade Oromia. The main purpose was Christianization of this Muslim community with a strange hostility towards anything Islamic. In order to achieve their goals, Lisbon entered into strategic alliance with a section of the local population called the Amhari tribes in northern part of Ethiopia who were adherents of unorthodox faith of the Eastern Churches. The aim was to use the hither-to unhostile eastern Christians to destroy Oromia. But fortunately such a reckless undertaking failed since the Amharies and their foreign instigators were both defeated by a less equipped and poorly trained Muslim army.
Immediately after Berlin conference of (1884-1885) Oromia as a Muslim community was Finally isolated from the main stream of the Islamic world. This without doubt was calculated as a crucial means of weakening the natural and dynamic Islamic resistance capability of Oromians. Not until when some neighboring Muslim states such as Somali became independent that the armed resistance was resuscitated with a renewed vigour. By 1973, a real militant Islamic struggle has been bom again which now lives till today to challenge Christian imperialists and their local secularists.
Muslim fighters taking the final instructions before battle