DECLARATION OF GENERAL AMNESTY:
llekmalvar
Engineer Hikmatyar has declared general amnesty for those Afghans who collaborated with the Soviet aggressors, but have subsequently repented and are now willing to join the ranks of the Muslim nation of Afghanistan. The amnesty applies to all those Afghans who served in the lower echelons of the enemy, collaborated for short durations, unknowingly or under compulsion. The declaration made on December 1985 addresses itself the people inside Afghanistan.
Explaining further. Engineer Hikmatyar stated that those who consciously collaborated with the enemy would also be accorded the benefit of general amnesty provided they are willing to repent, compensate for- their past follies, gain confidence of the Islamic nation of Afghanistan including the Mujahideen and are prepared to fight alongside the Mujahideen against the Soviet aggressors. Necessary directions will be given to ail Mujahideen commanders of the fighting- fronts in this regard so that all the misled Afghans upon their repentance are provided the required protection.
The declaration of amnesty will be placed before the coming , session of the Supreme Council of the Unity; the fttehad e Islami Mujahideen-e-Afghanistan, for its endorsement. Besides, the forth-
coming session of the Unity will consider the formation of the following Committees : Communication ; Cultura; Education Refugees ; and Health.
Engineer Hikmatyar also observ ed that of late the Soviet rationale for the justification of their aggression on our homeland has undergone a change. Contrary to their earlier pretext of the so-called 'invitation", they now seek to justify their unlawful military presence by claiming that an unending civil war will erupt should they leave Afghanistan and that they cannot tolerate such conditions. along their borders. This preverse logic tends to portray the Russian aggressors as the guarantors of peace and security of our country and who sent their troops merely out of sympathy for our nation in order to stop the said civil war. '■
The fact of the matter is that Sovief intervention is .solely responsible for the eruption of the war in Afghanistan. And needless to add the fighting wiil cease and peace and tranquility will prevail all over Afghanistan the moment Russians vacate our country.
Indeed, it is in keeping with the shared logic of afl colonial powers to undertake the pursuit of brute force aggression and occupationism and perpetrate bloodshed and destruction while professing "compassion" for thejvictims of their own oppression. The Englishmen during
their occupation .of Afghanistan also advanced the same perverse logic. They contended that upon their withdrawal the country would be engulfed in a series of civil wars and they claimed to be in Afghanistan solely on a "civilizing mission to undertake development and assist the Afghan people. History, however, bears witness that after the British were forced out of the country, Afghanistan remained peaceful and our nation was able to establish a viable central government without t’he help of any foreign advisors or protectors.
The Russians have also expressed the fears that if their forces withdraw from Afghanistan, the Afghan communists will be decimated, Are we to accept that the safety and well-being of the handful of their agents requites the pre sence of 230,000 Soviet troops in Afghanistan ? Are we to grant that in protecting this small group of their proteges, not exceeding ten thousand, the Russians have the right to slaughter more than one million of our population in this 90 months unremitting war, unleash total destruction on the country force 4.5 million of the Afghan population to seek refuge outside and still continue its gruesome killings and genocide of the remaining population ? In any case, the fact is that even before the Soviet aggression these communists were living comfortably in Afghanistan. They were not only safe
Continued on Page 28
8
The Mujahideen Monthly