X
Dear Editor,
A$ ,a foreigner , J am very interested in, 'the Afghan Jehad and proud that the brave' Mujahideen of Afghanistan have been able to defeat the biggest power of the world in their heroic resistance entering its seven year.
If possible would you please provide us with some information about Russian prisoners, if you are holding any, and the way they are treated. Thank you.
Mohammad Kabir Malaysia
Dear M. Kabir,
This issue is carrying a letter from a Russian POW and, 'Inshaa-Allah', in the future we will be publishing interviews with prisoners and Russian documents.
Asalam-u-Alikum The Editor,
Dear Editor
I have been reading The Mujahideen Monthly so far. There was a need for such publication and I am happy that you have taken this step.
I would like to draw your attention to this point, that if possible give us information about the policy of the future Islamic government that the Mujahideen will establish in a free, independent and Islamic Afghanistan. Thank you.
Mahmood Islamabad
Dear Mahmood,
The future Islamic government of Afghanistan will be totally based on The Quran and Sunnah, which protect the rights of individuals and groups in any society.
Aslamu-Alikum The Editor
Dear Readers :
Dear Editor,
I appreciate your efforts fn publishing The Mujahideen Monthly. I would like to point out that even though the magazine covers a variety of topics it lacks detailed information regarding the administration, security, education and agricultural plans of the Mujahideen in the liberated areas throughout Afghanistan. Providing such information will give us insight into the practical aspects of the Mujahideen beyond direct combat with the enemy. Thank you.
A. Qayum Lahore
Dear A. Qayum,
Thank you for your suggestions, the Editorial board is considering publishing details of the Mujahideen's social, agricultural and economic policies for the liberated areas in future issues.
Aslam-u-Alikum The Editor.
The Editorial Board of The Mujahideen Monthly appreciates your comments, views, suggestions and criticism about the magazine and considers them as significant contribution to the further improvement of our work both in term of appearance and that of the text.
Thank you.
The Mujahideen Montnlv G.P.O. Box 255 Peshawar, Pakistan
/
4
The Mujahideen Monthly