EDITORIAL
Russians Are Nothing But
Six years have elapsed since the Russian invasion bf Afghanistan but despite Moscow's wealth and might our nation remains unconquered — every day Russian troops are confronted and beaten by the Mujahideen. In reprisal the Russians massacre civilians, destroy villages, kill livestock and burn forests, fields and crops.
So far more than one million people have been killed through indiscriminate bombing and shelling and an equal number have been crippled due to the use of anti-personnel mines. Thousands of people have lost their lives or been maimed because of booby traps despite the fact that Moscow signed an international convention on April 10, 1981 prohibiting the use of such weapons.
Nearly five million people have been forced to leave their homeland and take refuge in the neighbouring countries of Pakistan and Iran because their homes have bqen destroyed. The country's economic and social infrastructure, including the roads, power and communication networks, hospitals and educational institutions, have been badly damaged or completely ruined.
There is no justification for Moscow's military intervention in the internal affairs of our independent and non-aligned country and there is no meaningful interpretation of international law to justify Moscow's actions in Afghanistan.
The only exception to the ban on the use of fqrce in international relations is provided for in Article 51 of the United Nations' Charter which affirms "the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a member of the United Nations."
However, Moscow has never claimed that [it has been the victim of an armed attack — on the contrary it is the guilty-party not the wronged. The only explanation for its behaviour in Afghanistan appears to be a lust for power, a desire to expand its power-base
and dominate other nations.
<r .
It appears to .feel safe in this evil design because the Afghans are only a small nation, totalling probably no more than 18 million people before the war
began
Secure in the belief that it has the numbers Moscow appears to have forgotten Allah's (All Glory be to Him) words so clearly stated in the Holy Quran:
When Ta/ut set forth With the armies, he said :
"God will test you At the stream : if any Drinks of its water,
He goes not with my army :
Only those who taste not Of it go with me :
A mere slip out o f the hand Is excused." But they all Drank of it, except a few.
When they crossed the river, —
He and the faitfhu! ones with him, —
They said : "This day
We cannot cope
With Go Hath and his forces"
But those who were convinced That they must meet God,
Said : "How oft, by God's will,
Hath a small force Vanquished a big one God is with those Who steadfastly persevere.
(Baqara, 249)
Perhaps the Russian leaders might like to reflect upon the closing words of the verse :
But those who were convinced That they must meet God,
Said : "How oft, by God's will.
Hath a small force Vanquished a big one ?
God is with those . Who steadfastly persevere.
In reflecting upon God's words perhaps the Russian leaders would do well to remember* that Allah (AII Glory be to Him) has warned mankind not to commit aggression :
"Fight in the way of Allah against those who fight
*The Mujahideen Monthly