PARWAN PROVINCE RUSSIAN SOLDIER CAPTURED
The Mujahideen are reported to have waylaid a Russian supply convoy on the Kabul-Parwan highway on Jan. 20, destroying three tanks and killing 12 Russian troops. One Mujahid was reported martyred.
, The same group of Mujahideen attacked Russian troops at Sinjit-dara valley and killed eight Russians and captured one Russian soldier, Sergei Mekhailovich, a 25-year-old tank mechanic from Kive.
RUSSIAN POSTS IN
GULBAHAR ATTACKED
In Parwan province Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami under the command of Maulvi Sadiq are reported to have used heavy rockets in attacking military posts at Gul-bahar on Feb. 3, reports the MPA correspondent for the area.
The report speaks of heavy losses of life and equipment for the Russians. Scores of Russian-Karmal troops are reported killed or wounded and 18 tanks wrecked.
The Mujahideen lost one of their heavy machineguns which hit by enemy artillery fire and three Mujahideen were martyred.
The Mujahideen positions at Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province, are reported to have come under heavy fire from Russian forces based eight kilometres to the north of the city, killing a large number of civilians and damaging their houses.
In reprisal the Mujahideen fired heavy rackets at -the Russians and reportedly played havoc with their base, destroying 10 tanks
and killing scores of Red Army troops. On the Mujahideen side three were martyred and five others seriously wounded.___
LOGAR PROVINCE
Mujahideen from Zarghoon-shahr village have attacked Russian forces which had besieged the Mohammad Agha district on 15. The Russian troops were ransacking the villages of the district ror their valuables. Upon receiving the news of incident the Mujahideen of Zarghoonshar equipped with rocket launcher and mortars attacked.
As a result of the ensuing fighting tens of Russian troops martyred. The Russians were forced to vacate the district in disgrace. i
were killed or wounded and five of their tanks smashed. From among the Mujahideen three were seriously wounded and one was
KUNDUZ PROVINCE
The Mujahideen of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan in Kunduz province are reported to have attacked a Russian convoy in Khanabad district on Jan. 12, according to a report from the Mujahid Press Agency (MPA).
The Mujahideen ambushed the convoy enroute to Takhar province, destroying five tanks and one APC and killing all the crews. The remaining forces made their way after two hours of fighting as the Mujahideen backtracked. The report says three Mujahideen were wounded.
The Mujahideen Monthly
23