The IUAM chief said the Mujahideen would not accept the U.N. aid which was sent through the Kabul regime as they did not want to give any recognition to the Communist-backed government.
He said if the U.N. wanted to distribute anything in Afghanistan it should contact the Mujahideen directly.
Prof. Rabbani said he was receiving "green signals for direct talks between Mujahideen and the Soviets but time had not yet come to disclose the details".
He said the release of the Soviet POWs in Mujahideen control depended on the future situation. A number of POWs, he claimed, were so happy with the Mujahideen that they did not want to go home.
The Jamiat leader said he had asked his guerillas not to fire on the returning Soviet troops but if the Soviets tried to destroy the harvest or cause problems for the villagers, the Mujahideen would be compelled to retaliate.
The IUAM chief said though the Mujahideen had declared a general amnesty but those who had committed heinous crime would not be excused. They would be dealt with in accordance with the principles of Islamic justice.
Asked why did the IUAM failed to hold elections inside the Mujahideen controlled areas despite promises by its two former chiefs, Prof. Rabbani said: "We are fighting a war. There are countries that have dissolved their parliaments when faced with war. Elections inside
Afghanistan will be held whenever time permits".
He said he couldn’t give a date for the proposed elections but said that he was as committed to the holding of elections as his predecessors were.
Prof. Rabbani admitted that there were some differences among the Mujahideen parties but they were of minor nature.
He said he had gone to Afghanistan to make the commanders more aware of the political. military and administrative situation there. He said he had asked the commanders to avoid residential areas while fighting against the Kabul troops and to make sure that the civilians were not hurt
The Mujahideen, he said, should try to give a sense of security to the people of Afghanistan and restore peace in the country.
Prof. Rabbani said the GOO million dollar aid from Moscow was neglitible compared to the destruction they had caused in
Afghanistan.
Prof. Burhanuddin said the attacks on central areas by Mujahideen also showed their dominance against the enemy.
He said the Mujahideen had been directed to concentrate on military targets only and avoid hitting residential areas. He said, the recent attacks on such places in the Kabul city were launched by the Kabul regime itself and their allies and added the Mujahideen could not think of killing the innocent citizens.
He said, though Afghanistan was confronted with a military problem on account of the Soviet invasion, the Mujahideen were ready to negotiate with the Russians in an attemp to seek a political solution to the issue He urged the Soviets to pull out of Afghanistan as soon as possible in their own interest, otherwise it would lead to more bloodshed and misery in that country.
He said that any attempt by the foreign forces to prolong the rule of discredited regime in Kabul would result in further trouble and strife in the wartorn country.
He said after liberation the Mujahideen would set up an Islamic, independent and neutral government In Afghanistan. He said "we will not let anybody establish military bases in our country to be used against anyother state". He said despite the invasion committed by the Russians against our country we would try to have friendly relations with the Soviets on the condition that they did not interfere in our affairs. Prof. Rabbani said India had been pursuing a wrong policy on the Afghanistan issue “but we would like to have cordial relations with it if that country changed its present attitude".
The Afghan Mujahideen leader praised late President General Mohammad Ziaul Haq and the people of Pakistan for their support to the people of Afghanistan In their hour of need.
He said 'we also thank all the friendly states for extending us valuable help in this crisis
The Mujahideen Monthly
15
November 1988