
. The Mujahideen, October t November, 1Paf*34
(^Religious persecutionj)
Religious activities of Rohingyas arc under humiliating restrictions. On 23 May 1991, the mosques and the headquarters of the Islamic preaching Centre of Maungdaw was closed down.
—	Mosques and Madrasahs arc desecrated, burrft down and turned into military barracks or warehouses.
—	Muslim grave-yards have been converted into banana orchards or public latrines.
—	Waqf properties are being confiscated and distributed among non-Muslims.
—	Religious dignitaries are humiliated, manhandled and forced to work in labour camps.
—	The use of loudspeakers is not permitted in mosques.
—	Muslim orphanages and other religious institutions arc not given any aid by the government.
y '
—	Sacrifice of animals on religious occasions / is curbed through rcstrictivc fnca5iurcs. *' •
— A very meagre quota is given to Muslims for performance of Haj.
Political Persecution
The new Burmese citizenship law of 1982, as ratified by the Burmese parliament has declared Rohingyas as “State less people” and “Illegal immigrants” from Bangladesh. Through this enactment, the authorities aim to throw out all Rohingyas from Arakan.
—r* Rohingyas arc not allowed to form any independent political party of their own which could serve the interest of their people. They are given no participation in the affairs of the state.
—	They have been deprived of their rights of franchise as many of them have been deliberately denied to register in the voting list.
—	Rohingyas arc not all recruited in defence services and grossly discriminated against in civil services. Those in civil services are being dismissed or forced to resign.
—	Since independence (1948) the
successive Burmese regimes have launched 16 major anti-Rohingyas armed operations and engincere 64 communal riots in Arakan to drive out Rohingyas from their ancestral homeland. Constant oppression by the security forces and degradation have forced the Rohingyas to flee their homeland and take shelter in	neighbouring
Bangladesh or other countries like India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Thailand, Malaysia etc. In this manner over 1.2 million Rohingyas are uncarcd for refugees living a dismal life.
The ongoing genocide and oppression in Burma should be stopped by the joint efforts of the UN and its member states. UN must take the initiative and urge the Burmese regime to respect human dignity and protect human life and property of Rohingya people in Arakan.
Like the Palestinians, Kashmiris and Afghanis, it is the result of forcible dispossession of the Rohingya population and their expulsion from their homeland by means of in-human persecution and harassment.
It is denial of fundamental human rights and freedoms under UN declaration. It is the moral duty of all the countries and the concerned international organizations to come to assistance of Rohingya refugees wherever they are, in giving them shelter and meeting their essential requirement for survival. The Rohingya people must be given full support to go back to their homeland honourably. ^ (Countesy "The News")