. :;	The	Mujahideen,	September	,1991
wmmmmmmmmmmPage 45 mmmmm
TEE ISLAMIC FEOMT FOE
Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromo is committed to dual goals liberation from imperialist protected regimes in Ethiopia as well as to prevent nationalist and secularist parties which have strong links with global Jewish Congress and World Christian Federation from changing the original Islamic character ofOromia as a nation.
As an introduction to the more than decade struggle of the Muslims in Oromia, we are publishing a summary of some of the documents submitted by Shaykh Nuru-Deen Yaraw Adam, who is currently representing the Islamic Front for the Liberation of Oromia here in Pakistan.
The documents were in Arabic but rendered into English by our own man Abu Abdur Rahman and presented to our readers by Abu-Abdullah.
FOREWARD
All praise be to Allah alone. He who fulfils always His promises, helps His slave and defeats the allied alone. Peace and blessing on the noble prophet to whom this various revelations were sent:-
“O ye who believe, do I show you a trade that can protect you from a tedious chastisement: You should believe in Allah and H is messenger likewise struggle in the path of Allah with your wealth and persons. That is best for you if only you know: (As a reward): He (Allah) would forgive you your sins and permits you entrance into Al- Janah that has rivers flowing beneath and into nice dwellings in paradise of bliss. That is indeed the highest felicity (Suratus-Saff)."
and likewise:
“Those that if we establish them on earth would observe prayers, pay the zakat, enjoin others to what is good and forbid that which is wrong....To Allah belongs the end result of all affairs
suratul-l-Hajj: 41.”
After this:-
TEE LIEEEATIOM OF OEOMIA
AhuAhJullah
I
GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION:-
$
Oromia falls in the eastern part of Africa having Kenya on its southern flank, Ogarden to its east. Jibotti and Sudan are on its frontiers in the west and to the north we have Tegri and Gunder (Ethiopia).
Oromia is made up of eleven provinces which are all forcibly incorporated in what is today called Ethiopia. This nation has apopulation of 34 million 85% of whom areMuslims, 10% Christians and 5% pagans, occupying an area of 756,000 Kir?.
Majority of Oromians subsists on agriculture and husbandry. A few section of the population is noted for trade, commerce and handicrafts. Today the rate of literacy is one of the lowest on the continent, which is something between 8% and 10%. This is of course a direct consequence of the cultural and economic isolationist policies ruthlessly executed by various Ethiopian regimes.
fADVENT OF ISLAM IN OROMU
Islam entered Oromia about five years before the Prophet himself migrated to Medinah. On him be peace and blessings. This was possible through the first migration of Muslims from Mecca to Habasha (i.e Ethiopia) and it would be of great interest to recall the words of the Holy prophet while commanding his companions to go to Habasha.
If you could go to Ethiopia, go! because “there-in rules a king that does not allow any body to be treated unjustly...”
That was how Islam came to Oromia peacefully. It started from individuals to families.From clans to cities and provinces and till today there are historical cities and Islamic heritage which remind us