topple him. The Kremlin had the follwoing motives:
(a)	To assure Amin that they were on his side by informing him about the coup.
(b)	Not to lose the trust of Taraki's group that the Russians might betray them.
(c)	To get rid of those communist who were unhappy with the Kremlin because they believed Moscow interfered too much in Afghan affairs.
By launching October's plot the Russian's were able to get rid of disgruntled communists such as: Lai Badshah, chairman of the Interior Trade Directorate and member of the Central Committee of Khalq; retired General Majid Spinghar; Dr Zarghoon, an advisor to the Children s Hospital, counter part of Dr Najib in political life; and Suliman Bayadagh member of the Central Committee. Ghulam Mohammad Farhad leader of the Afghan Mi Hat Party was arrested by Amin. Farhad's role was to enlist the anti-Kremlin marxist's in the PDPA.
On December 17, 1979 Asad-ullah Amin, nephew of Hafizullah Amin, head of Kargari Astakhi-barati Mosisah (KAM), Central Intelligence, and second Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, was killed by the Kremlin in a well organised plot. It was carried out by Amin's family doctor a plump woman, and a male cook, both of whom were Russian nationals. They poisoned Asadullah Amin's meal and even though he was taken to Tashkent for medical treatment he died the same evening. The Russians were able to convey to Amin that the plot was carried out by Taraki's group.
The Kremlin did not escalate its strategy to take over Afghanistan because of its minor differences with Amin as some people believe.
It stepped up its plan because, firstly the government of Amin
was in danger, from the Mujahideen, secondly, to bring in new faces and fix the crimes on Amin, and thirdly, not to see its 30 years efforts end in vain.
On December 23 the Russian forces wer? ready for the invasion of Afghanistan. On December 24 Lt. General Vikor Smenovich Papu-tin was appointed as the third Russian advisor to Amin. On the same day Russian's artillery contingents, under the command of General Garilov — reported to be 1000 men but in reality 5000 — were brought to Afghanistan under the cover of military manoeuvers.
According to a Russian officer, Sergei Nikolayovich Mashikov, 25, now under Mujahideen custody, his officers said that when Amin refused to see the Russian advisors, the Russians forces took action against him on 27 December and got rid of him. Even his food was poisoned on 24 December and he could not leave his house.
While Amin's palace was under Russian fire, the battle-ready Soviet forces, under the command of Marshal Sergei L. Sokolov, the present Soviet Defence Minister General Madyayov, commander of Russian ground forces. General Garilov and Arif Shetyanov, marched to occupy Afghanistan. *On 28 and 29 December about 60,000 troops by land and 15,000 by air entered Afghanistan", M.S. Khayatov, a senior diplomat at the Soviet Embassy in Kabul, Later told a group of Afghan Brigadiers.
The Russians believed that changes made during the days of Taraki such as land reforms and alterations to the national flag made people stand against them. Actually the ideological differences between Islam and Marxism were the main factors in the nation-wide revolt against the Marxist government.
The Russians withdrew the land reform policies to win support for the government. When the
Kabul government announced the "second phase of the land reofrm" in August11981 they clearly said that all tribal leaders, landlords and government officers could have land as long as they helped the government against the Mujahideen however, the move was to no avail and Muslims throughout the country spurned the Kremlin's overtures.
The Russians presence strengthened the anti-Soviet and anti-marxist feelings of the Afghan nation. The Russians became angered by the Mujahideen's activities and from year to year have stepped up their military brutuality on the political front they have used Marxism, feudalism, tribalism and nationalism to try to defeat the Islamic movement.
They paid much attention to the formation of a Tribal Jirgah (Tribal Council and Loi Jirgah(Supreme Council) to win support for their Marxist government but failed
Because of divisions within the Kremlin over the Marxist parties outside the Soviet Union, the puppet government in Kabul was a mix of Paracham, Situm Milli and Taraki followers of the Khalq faction. The Russians failed to bring these parties closer to each other and even played the role of firebrands among the different Soviet-sponsored groups in Afghanistan.
Recently in November 1985 the Russians launched and foiled another coup, when a group of 56 senior Afghan officers, including several generals, were arrested in Kabul and accused them of trying to overthrow the Karmal regime.
Four of the leading generals were General Khalil, head of the Directorate of Reconnaissance — who led the coup — a former Defence Minister, General Abdul Qadir, Brigadier Gulrung and Bri-aadier Jaafar Sartir, both lecturers in Course—A (a short-term course
The Mujahideen Monthly
11