The Mujahideen, September, 1991
The first suspicion as to Moscow’s real intention was created by the way and manner the Geneva Accord was formalized. Mikhail Gorbechev entered into negotiations with America, Marxist regime in Kabul and Pakistan on Afghanistan, without the participation of the armed resistance movement which represented more than 95% of the population
of political hypocricy dubbed always as strategic diplomacy in international relationship. Perestrioka and glasnost meant freedom and openness. America and Europe likewise claimed themselves to be champions of liberty and self-determination, and Afghan Jihad was initiated on the basis that the nation must be given a say in all things that affect its existence as an independent entity. To have therefore bypassed all fundamental principles, side-stepped the people and entered into agreement with outsiders, revealed the salient intention behind the whole peace process.
If the so-called new Kremlin under Mr. Gorbechev really believed that Red Army involvement in Afghanistan was a mistake and that it had become a bleeding wound, why not absolutely disengage Communist military machine once and for all. As if to confirm people’s reservations, Soviet Union proceeded to withdraw under two new diplomatic terminologies at least in Afghan crisis: (a) Negative symmetrism which was apparently meant for both sides to the conflict but tacitly intended in stripping the Mujahideen of its external support, (b) East-West understanding on Afghanistan.
This latter one meant many things viz: (i) destroying existing Mujahideen ammunition depot (ii) reequipping Kabul puppet regime with sophisticated arsenals to the brim, so as
to withstand any Mujahideen military onslaught that was envisaged after Soviet withdrawal (iii) Assassination of strong revolutionary supporters of the Islamic struggle such as Zia-ul-Haq, Gen Akhtar,Dr. Abdullah Azzam and others, (iv) Systematic blackmailing dynamic Mujahideen leaders through advanced Western propaganda machinery (v) Directly sabotaging Mujahideen military operations through implanted agents such as in Jalalabad, Kabul and former Khost garrison. It was intended by this to butress their notion that Mujahideen could never achieve any major military victory, (vi) Sentimentally over-blowing old and petit differences between various Mujahideen parties and striving night and day to create fresh ones.
All these were during Gorbechev’s first era and to sum it up, we might quote Engineer Hekmatyar here”...The worst ever bombing over innocent people of Afghanistan by Russian Airforce was witnessed during the rule of Mikhail Gorbechev. The most modem and devastating weapons are still being supplied to the puppet regime for continuing the massacre of the Afghan people...”
UNO was another casualty of the Soviet president’s fatal commissions. It is important here to note that when this international body first emerged from the tomb of the League of nations, the idea of veto was introduced, though monopolized unjustly by the so-called victors of World War II to rationally checkmate each other. The organization was also meant to be a buffer in crisis, as well as a platform of sanity, liberty and objectivity. It was never intended to be a military arm of any of the conflicting ideological camps.
For one reason or the other, the founder of perestroika and initiator of glasnost decided to alter the balance without moral justifications or rational causes, destroying thereby the fragile credibility of the UNO. We must note that Capitalism and Communism are nothing but the two only sides of a philosophical coin. None of which is totally evil or completely free from mortal flaws. The only viable alternative is the advent of Islam as originally revealed. But since Muslims are today grappling for survival amidst countless disasters, it needs an entirely new understanding to make that a reality. Muslims must reform the so-called fundamental radicalism as well as reject its twin sister of conservative dogmatism to face the challenges. But in the meanwhile and before that becomes a practical achievement, the East-West balance must be preserved by all means or an immediate check must be placed on the absolutism of Zionist capitalism in the world today.
This is not an invitation for the return of Communism as a rutheless socio-political warrior or a wish for the
Trapped and caught: some military leaders of the Marxist puppet regime under arrest