leader of the Hezb-e-Islamic group with which I was going to travel into Afghanistan, is annoyed that the war has been portrayed as
swinging in favour of the Russians this year.
Hekmatyar said: "The resistance is now in a better position than any time before. We are stronger and better-organised and it is false to say that the Russians have made any advances. Irv the last seven months of this year the activity of the Mujahideen was higher than for the whole of 1985. It's correct that we are facing more difficulties than before but that does not mean that resistance has weakened. The situ ation is completely in favour of the-Mujahideen."
Hekmatyar thought that Western governments should take every diplomatic opportunity to criticise the Russians for their military adventure in Afghanistan but also to take practical steps to aid the resistance. One of these, he suggested, should t?e to order out the Kabul-appoint ed diplomats from Afghan, embassies around the world and hand the buildings over to the Mu-
“Soviets can only destroy
not control”
A report of a Western Journalist who visited Afghanistan and his name is withheld for security reasons.
I embarked on my first journey to Afghanistan in six years with some trepidation because of Press reports throughout the year that the Afghan Mujahideen fighting the Soviet invaders and the Communist government in Kabul had been taking a hammering and, according to some articles, were practically on the point of collapse.
There had been grim tales of the insurgents being wiped out in their strongholds by Soviet helicopter and by air attacks. Soviet elite 'Spetnatz' commandoes were supposed to have made striking successes, punishing the Mujahideen with swift and deadly surprise attacks and succeeding in cutting the guerillas’ supply lines in a bid to starve them of food and weapons.
The Russians were even supposedly withdrawing six regiments of men because their pacification of the country was so successful that they were presumably no longer needed. Pakistani and western intelligence sources, as well as an Afghan army general who defected to the Mujahideen in October, said that the Russians had poured troops into the country before their well-publicised "withdrawal" in the autumn.
But even before leaving Peshawar in October for the journey west to Parachinar in the tribal homelands of Pakistan and hence to Afghanistan, I found encour-
aging signs. Peshawar has, since the beginning of the conflict been, the headquarters for the various Muja> hideen groups fighting the Russians, Six years ago there had been considerably disunanimity between the groups, which even sometimes extended to the fighting groups within Afghanistan. Now there seemed to be healthy cooperation between the seven largest of the Islamic groups who try to co-ordinate a strategy for the struggle within Afghanistan.
Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar,
The Mujahideen Monthly
35
Jan - Feb 1987