the Soviet policy in Afghanistan.
c)	Weakening	those
Mujahideen leaders that are effective in standing in the way of Iran’s Afghan policy implementation and supporting those “Mujahideen” elements that Iran can use as the tools.	*
With this background the reader can now see in better perspective why Iran showed such an angry reaction towards Eng. Hekmatyar’s conditions for participating in the trilateral talks in * Tehran. The H.I.A set the following conditions for its participation in the second trilateral talks:
i-	The Jihad organizations should discuss the achievements of the first trilateral talks held in Islamabad and reach a consensus on a plan for the solution of the Afghanistan problem before participation in the Tehran conference. /
ii-	All the effective Jihad organizations including Shoora-i-Ittelaf should be invited to the conference and the extra-ordinary importance being given to some of the parties Should be stoped forthwith.
iii-	The major Mujahideen organizations should agree upon the delegations participating in the conference and, through mutual • understanding, a person should be named as head of the delegation.
Since Iran did not accept the condition, HIA did not participate in the talks. It should be mentioned that HIA participated in the firsttrilateral talks in Islamabad, and learned that the Iranian delegation was insisting that the talk's be called four-sided (Pakistan, Iran and Iran-based
At
^ The Mujahideen, October I November, 1991	■
Mujahideen and Pakistan-based Mujahideen). This insistence of the Iranians had disappointed Sayyaf s representative which resulted in their boycotting the meeting. This attitude of the Iranians to divide rather than to unite the Afghan had no doubt left a negative impression on all participating Mujahideen including HIA and therefore reducing the chance that all Mujahideen would participate. Four Mujahideen parties Ittihadi Islami, HIA (of Khalis), Shoora-i-Ittelaf and HIA boycotted the Tehran meeting.
The reasons Iran singled out Eng. Hckmatyar for a verbal assault rather than the other party leaders that boycotted are that:
i)	Eng. Hekmatyar is perceived as a real hurdle in the way of Iran achieving her goal in the region.
ii)	Iran scores points with the Soviet and the Americans both of whom are against this Mujahid leader.
iii)	Iran hopes to send a message to those Afghans who are waiting for the Afghan imbroglio to be solved that Eng. Hekmatyar should be blamed if the trilateral talks do not produce much results.
' “ ,«
The words selected to assault Engineer Hekmatyar (Hekmatyar harmed Afghan more than'the Soviet) refleet the function of an angry and desperate mind rather than logical thinking. The whole vyorld knows that it was the Soviet bombing for ten years which killed 1.5 million people and ruined 70% 6f the villages. How could Engineer Hekmatyar who possesses not even a single bomber do more damage than the Soviets?
1
mmmmmmmmmpage 27
When contrasted with the friendly overtures of Mr. Velayati, the Foreign Minister of Iran, toward Mr. Qutbaddin Helal the chief of the political Department of HIA during the first trilateral talks, such a strong statement by the Iranian government ordering in fact the killing of a Mujahid leader shows a childish reaction. When HIA participated with Iran in the talks, Mr. Velayati repeatedly told Mr. Helal that he wished to see “Br. Hekmatyar and greet him”. But when the HIA boycotts the talks in Tehran, like the bully in a child’s game, Iran says, “If you don’t do what I say I will knock you down.”
To give the benefit of doubt one can hope that the statement in Kavhan was a terrible blunder made by a few individuals and that it does not reflect the collective policy of the whole government.
It is hoped that the noble nation of Iran which has numerous learned scholars able to see the real issues will firmly bring to the attention of their government this unfortunate blunder and request that an apology be immediately sent to Mr. Hekmatyar.
It is also hoped that the people of Iran should alsonow examine the intentions behind such propaganda against a Mujahid leader whose cause the people of Iran have supported for a whole decade. Perhaps through this kind of examination the people of Iran can also check their government to keep it on the right path and to prevent it from becoming a tool which serves the interests of the superpowers. The Islamic Republic of Iran jn the true sense of the word will become stronger when it has another brotherly Islamic of Afghanistan by its side. •