Kille
The governor of Ghazni with the provincial head of intelligence (Khad) have been killed by Mjuahideen in heavy fighting during which about 75 tanks, armoured personnel carriers (A PC) and army trucks were destroyed.
In Mid October Russian forces
launched a heavy offensive on
mujahideen strongholds in Qara-
bagh and Jaghoori districts of
Ghazni province. More than 500 tanks, APCs and army trucks, six
jets and SU 25 bombers and 19
helicopter-gunships took part in the
offensive.
The Russians have been trying to establish a district headquarters in Jaghoori, located about 90 kilometres south-west of Ghazni city, capital of Ghazni province. The district has been under the control of the mujahideen for the last six years.
*V=

Mujahideen examining pieces ol exploded rockets (Ghazni)
Several contingents of artillery and infantry were air-dropped in Jaghoori and the other forces came into the area through Qara-bagh district, located 60 kilometres to the south-west of Ghazni city. The forces set up army posts en route to protect their convoys.
The mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan from Qarabagh Muqar, Ajiristan and the shia's group jointly attacked the forces with rocket propelled grenades (RPG—7) 107—mm rockets and. mines. The mujahideen succeeded in destroying about 36 tanks and APCs near Qarabagh and were abie to wipe
out the military posts set up during the past 24 days. The mujahideen destroyed about 40 tanks and APCs around these posts by using RPG—7s, 107—mm rockets and mines.
During the fighting the provincial governor of Ghazni, Awaz AM, his? head of intelligence, Mirza Khan and the political-in-charge of Ghazni province with hundreds of soldiers were killed in Qarabagh, Looman, Angoori and Jaghoori areas.
About 320 Afghan soldiers have defected to tf]e mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan during
the fighting with their arms and ammunitions. The fighting is continuing. The Russian troops are now reported to have abandoned their efforts to establish a headquarters in Jaghoori and are trying to save their troops either by flying them out or by sending in reinforcements by land.
In another operation on Oct. 12 in Qarabagh Russian forces surrounded the village of Spin Kariz and started looting the houses and setting them ablaze. They killed six innocent civilians and injured tow children.
i
30
i
The Mujahideen Monthly