
f
Hekmatyar with H.E. Musa Hitum the Deputy Prime Minister
Musa Hitam. He held wide-ranging talks with them for the further strengthening of relations between the two nations of Malaysia and Afghanistan and thanked them for
their realistic attitude towards the Mujahideen.
The Amir also addressed public rallies in Kuala Lumpur, Johor and Kelanton provinces and met
student and youth leaders from the International Islamic University and the National University in Kuala Lumpur. He held comprehensive talks with them about the situation in Afghanistan.
During his visit students demonstrated in front of the Russian Embassy and handed over a strongly worded protest note to the Second Secretary condemning the social imperialism of Russia and its brutal occupation of Afghansitan.
An effigy of the Russian leader Goibachev and the Russian flag were	burnt	on	a
thoioughfare in Kuala Lumpur by the students.
Eng. Hekmatyar also visited the Islamic Center and the Islamic Bank of Kuala Lumpur and during talks with the staff of these two institutions welcomed the establishment of these Islamic bodies m Malaysia.
nidullah Headche For
:::::
Russians
At 29 he has a well established reputation as a Mujahideen commander, and is in fact the general commander of all the Mujahideen in Kunduz city.
After graduating from high school he took up religious studies but when the Communist Regime took over in Kabul he could not complete them and soon joined the ranks of the Mujahideen.
When I asked him about the situation in Kunduz province he said : "Alhamdullilah (thanks to God) it is good ' He explained that compared to the Russians the Mujahideen were very poorly armed but the Russians had failed to wipe them out and had actually suffered heavy losses themselvgs.
Sayed Hamidullah' s^id that daily the Russians' long range	villages. He said that the aircraft
arms and aircraft shelled and bom-	used in Kuqduz province for the'
bed Mujahideen strongholds and genocide of innocent people and
destruction of their property always took off from the Soviet Union. He said that the jets could not land at Kunduz airport because firstly the runways were too short and secondly, the Mujahideen attacked the airport. The loss of even one such sophisticated jet would be costly to the Russians.
The Commander said that the Russians' land-forces were using tanks, BM 13, BM 21 and BM-41 rocket firers, Uboos 122mm and 151mm cannons, different range mortars, ZK-I and Dashaka machine guns, Z 23 double-barrel machine-guns, RPG-7 (rocket propelled grenades) and anti-personnel mines.
The Russians are also scattering toy' bombs on a large scale throughout the area. Often the bombs are intended for children and are in the shape of a tiny aeroplane or similar toy. They
k
The Mujahideen Monthly
i
25