TheWorld of Islam: Muslim from different places confiding together f------------------------------------------------------ .	 \
THE CRY OF KASHMIRIS
The Kashmir issue is not the minority problem of a country. It involves an overwhelming majority of the indigenous people in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, whose formal status, so far remains undetermined. The Kashmir problem is not an internal matter of any state as often deceptively portrayed by the Indian Government, contrary to its recognized international character. The State of Jammu and Kashmir is a disputed territory and is seized with the UN Security. Council, whose final status is to be decided by its own people, through a fair impartial plebiscite, under the auspices of the United Nations, as per UN resolutions.
The blatant violation of human rights is widespread but the human rights abuses is horribly devastating. The Government of India and the Indian armed forces, as the occupation authorities in the Indian-held State of Jammu and Kashmir, with their inhuman atrocities has outdone the Gestapo cruelties in occupied Europe, prior to the 2nd world War. Even the human rights abuses by Israelis against Arabs in occupied Palestine falls behind the Indian inhuman cruelties.
While elimination of the Kashmir Question has been India’s long-term policy, from the year 1990, began with an unprecedented determination and severity to implement it. As such the already pungent black laws were greatly strengthened and enlarged, long-standing occupied forces of India were multifariously buttressed and enhanced,and the Indian-occupation administration was tightened and centralised by various New Delhi Governments.
Under the newly conceived contrivances a large-scale extermination is necessary, by the Indian authorities, in order to suppress the increasing demand of its rights and to quell the growing movement for self-determination, justice, and freedom from this ruthless occupation. Thus a reign of terror was unleashed and is still going on.
So intense and extensive have been the calamities that the whole Indian-occupied Valley of Kashmir has virtually turned into a perpetual operation theatre of horror and genocide by the Indian forces. All men, women and children, throughout the Valley have been terrorized with singularly cataclysmic effects. Every day in Indian-occupied Kashmir has become a day and rape, detention, arson, loot and desolation. It is not possible to recount all the dehumanized tactics that the occupation authorities and forces of India continuously and systematically subjected on the indigenous majority people of Kashmir. A detailed report about it has been submitted to the UN’s Commission on human Rights by the World Muslim Congress {Motamar Al-Alam Al-Islami} earlier this year. Now, we are happy to see, some Western media has started a media-exposure of India’s barbarism and many Western parliamentarians are talking and even moving towards concerned resolution to stop these barbaric actions.

The Mujahideen, September, 1991
Page 20