- y■■■■*“	The Mujahideen, September , 1991

> ■■ page 37
condemnation to the generality of womanhood. If one examines verses 13,14-15, these verses never accused the woman, this is because God never cursed the first woman (Eve) in the verses. Instead it was the serpent that was cursed in the following two verses. To this effect the verses read thus:
“The Lord God said to the serpent because you have done this, cursed art thou above all cattle and above all wild animals upon your belly you shall go anddustyoushalleatall theckiysof your life. I will putenemity between you and the woman and between your seed, he shall bruise your head avid you shall bruise his heel”6
serpent was cursed, it was also made the enemy of the woman and her offsprings. In a nutshell this portion of the Bible never portrays God as having shunned or condemned the first woman and the generality of the women.
Moreover, history of the Roman empire records many untold miseries and awful plights of women such that hot oil was poured on their bodies. They were even tied to the tails of fast running horses so as to be tom to pieces. It was also recorded that women were tied with pillars while fire was made to approach them from the pedestrals.
Doctor Aspiring exposes the
heinous crimes committed against women in the Middle ages. He says thus:
“England the origin of Christian religion, in the year 1500 C.E set up a special Council which devised a new means of perpetrating cruelty and oppression on women. As a rcsultof this new methods, history recorded the burning alive of about nine million women by the Christians in England”.7
In fact, there are a lot of arguments propounded by the Christians to show that women arc damned creatures. References are made to these arguments from the Bible. Among these arc the following:
“For behold, the days are coming in which they shall say blessed arc the barren and the wombs that never bare and the paps and which never give suck”8
“It is good for a man not to touch a
wowan...”
“Art thou loosed from a wife seek not a wife”9
“He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord. But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world how he may please his wife’T 0
All the references are drawn from the new testament which is said to he weightier than the old testament.
St Pual the premier saint of Christiandom proclaims:-
“Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. But I suffeer not a woman to teach near to usurp authority over the man but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed then Eve and Adam was not deceived but the woman being deceived was in transgress.”! 1
Every woman according to him are transgressors since the first woman is taken to be a transgressor. StTertullian while expressing his own view about women also declares thus:
“Do you know that each of you is an Eve, the sentence of God on this sex of you lives in this age, the guilt must necessarily live too, you are the unsealer of that tree, you are the first deserter of the divine law, you sse she who persuaded him when the devil was not reliant enough to attack him. You destroyed so easily God’s image in man”12
To the orthodox Greek Church, women have no souls. In furtherance of this,St Clement of Alexandria also remarks:
“Nothing disgraceful is proper for man who is endowed with reason much less for woman to whom it brings shame to reflect of what nature she is”15
St John Chrysostom in his own view also said as regards women.
“A necessary evil, a desirable and a painted ill”16
“Calamity, a deadly fascinator and a painted ilF’l 3
However when we examine the institution of marriage in Christianity, women are taken to be of equal creatures with the men, it is there that women arc taken as equal partners of men. Women and men live together as creature who love themselves in body and mind only in the institution of marriage, besides this, women are never taken as creature worthy of love. The Christian then ascertain that men and women have been in love right from the beginning of the world thus they make reference to the Biblical reference which says that
“When God made man He also made woman to be his friend and pariner”14
In Christianity, marriage is not viewed as a way of preserving the dignity of a woman as a result of this she is given
Apart from the fact that the
Every woman according to him are transgressors since the first woman is taken to be a transgressor. St Tertullian while expressing his own view about women also declares thus:
“Do you know that each of you is an Eve, the sentence of God on this sex of you lives in this age, the guilt must necessarily live too, you are the unsealer of that tree, you are the first deserter of the divine law, you are she who persuaded him when the devil was not reliant enough to attack him. You destroyed so easily God’s image in man”12