VICTORY
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
I*::::::::::!::::::::::::::
OR
MARTYRDOM
This is the story of the bravery and proficiencies of Commander Sarwar Khan, 29 whose stronghold is called Paidarow Front\ located eight kilometres to the north of Ghazni, the capital of Ghazni province, south west of Kabul.
Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen are a continual headache for the Russian troops and communist militias in the area. The Commander has particularly proved to Ire a source of trouble to the enemy's headquarters in Khawaja Umari district, about five kilometres to the east of - his base and eight kilometres north of Ghazni city.
Khawaja Umari district is one of the few districts which has remained under government control over the past eight years. This is because the government forts in the area are exceptionally strong. Many of them have be6n built underground and are difficult/ to attack and it has proved hard for the Mujahideen to incur • heavy casualties on the enemy.
The location of Force 14, a full division comprising tanks, artillery and infantry at Ghazni, has only added to the difficulties because the district headquarters can easily call for reinforcements at any time.
Here are the stories of two of Sarwar Khan's more daring raids on the neaaquarters.
One day last July Sarwar Khan was reviewing past operations on Khawaja Umari district and decided that the.results had not been good enough. It was time for another raid;' and, Jnshaa-Allah (Allah willing) a successful one.
Sarwar Khan told one of his s,ub-commanders that they would have to- wipe out the district headquarters at any cost and he and his aide discussed the plan of the operation thoroughly, taking into account the lessons learned from previous attacks.
He knew that the district head-
1*
quarters had a tank, mortars, different types of light and heavy machine-guns, RPGl7 (rocket propelled grenades) and 100 staff
and soldiers.
As well as the men and arms at the headquarters there were about 300 communist militiamen living at nearby villages who had been strongly armed by the Russians.
These militiamen were Afghans, and dressed in the traditional manner, they could often be mistaken for Mujahideen. They were frequently employed by the Russian troops as spies and would attack the Mujahideen from behind while the latter were attacking the district headquarters.
At the time Sarwar Khan was considering a fresh attack he was told that the Russians planned to send 75 of the 100 soldiers normally at the headquarters to Ghazni for an operation with Force 14.
Sarwar Khan decided that this was an ideal time for an attack but he and' his aide agreed that , the use of any of their previous tactics could result in failure so they struck upon a new plan.
He ordered about TOO of his Mujahideen to prepare for a raid but did not reveal to them the
k
I
I
16
The Mujahideen Monthly