The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
By Mian Faqir Ahmad.
The recent uprising in Kabul was a notable happening and we need to examine what difference it made in the Afghan scenario. Although the uprising attempt by Shahnawaz Tanai and his followers has not succeeded in ousting Gen. Najib from power, the event has had definite effects in several areas.
With the background of the Jalalabad debacle and the superpowers’ collusion, the U.S. had agreed to accept Najib as a “reality”. The U.S.A. had even gone to the extent of proposing to Shevardnadze, the Russian Foreign Minister, that America was ready to recognize the Naj ib regime for an interim period until a settlement could be reached between the PDPA and Afghan Mujahideen. Pakistan too,to the surprise of many, had reportedly accepted the American stance. It all meant that Najib was gradually succeeding in having his regime taken seriously by the world. This was the line of thought on March 6, 1990 when Shahnawaz Tanai, Defence Minister of the Najib regime, began the military uprising which changed the whole scene.
On March 8,1990 after the uprising in Kabul, US AssistantSecretary of State John Kelly, in a meeting of the Foreign Relations Committee, presented a policy statement which opined that the solution to the Afghan problem could be found only after Najib left power. This was a significant reversal in the recent American policy on Afghanistan and the cause of this change in the US thinking was none other than the dented image of Najib as a result of the uprising. This new shift in the US Afghan policy still persists.
Pakistan, after the news of the uprising in Kabul, issued a policy statement declaring with renewed vigor its support for the ‘ Afghan nation against the regime’. It also observed that Najib was an obstacle in the way of a political solution to the problem. The attitude of
theofficial electronic media of Pakistan was also favorable during the rebellion in Kabul. The change in mood of the Pakistan government was unmistakably encouraged by the Tanai-led coup.
The insurgency in Kabul has also affected the Russian mind and forced the Kremlin to lend a second thought to their already declared stand. It is evident
from the unusual silence in Moscow on the Afghan issue that they seem undecided towards the situation in Afghanistan. The logic of the events has brought the Kremlin leadership to a crossroads as far as Afghanistan is concerned because military uprising against Najib has damaged his credibility as a successful ruler and his false stability is no longer taken for granted by anyone in the world.
The military uprising also exposed the policy of the Afghan political organizations to the nation. The AIG parties refrained from supporting the insurgency and termed it a fight between two Communist factions of the PDPA. To them no faction deserved help from the Mujahideen. Eng. Hekmatyar, Amir of the HIA, on the other hand, fully supported the uprising and lent a hand of succor to the Tanai forces. He saw the occasion as a good chance for Mujahideen and urged them to benefit from it. As Gen. Tanai had declared his aim to be the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan with the help of Mujahideen, Hekmatyar utilized the
moment for the cause of the Afghan Jihad.
In this perspective it ispertinent to take notice of a recent opinion poll, taken by a groupof free-lance journalists, which has displayed 67% of Afghans refugees in favor of the stand taken by Hekmatyar supporting the forces of insurgency in Kabul. The uprising has had an effect on Afghan politics which will go a long way in influencing the future power structure in that country.
The attempt by Gen. Tanai has also been very important for its military aspect With several generals and a large number of military personnel broken away from Najib’s ranks, the regime in Kabul has been shaken to its bones. The Parcham-Khalq tussle has intensified in the fields of the Afghan airforce, army and militia. Mistrust and suspicion surrounds the whole governmental machinery, and after the rebellion no one in the establishment is sure of the future of the regime; especially when Gen. Tanai is in the process of making contacts with his friends in the establishment to turn the tables on Najib. The situation is very fluid and anything can happen there anytime.
Taking into consideration these different aspects of the military uprising we arrive at the conclusion that the Gen. Najib government has suffered politically, militarily and morally. His departure from the seat of power is now generally considered only a matter of time. The internal cancer of the establishment has reached a point of incurability and must be cut out.
What difference did the Kabul uprising make?