the huge amount of contribution in cash and kind. It was indeed a pity that after the Liberation front took off, such a revolutionary project became a source of distress to the Muslims because the rank and file of the Front became infested with anti-Islamic thoughts and hostile activities that were completely against the Islamic identity of the nation.
By and large, those Muslims whose dedication to their faith appeared deep seated did not give up hope and never betrayed the trust to preserve the Muslims. Nor did they capitulate before the might and brutalities of communists,
Christians and secularists. The enemies of Eritrean Muslim community did much to destroy Islamic roots in the society but failed woefully in the eventuality. As the atrocities of the anti-Islamic forces increased: dedicated Muslims reviewed their tactics and method ended to be the best not only protecting it from a probable crush of defeat by the imperialist forces but the fact that the Muslims were also able to further Islamic call openly, challenging anti-Islamic ideologies and inviting more people to their fold as well as strengthening the united Muslim country.
Today, Our Eritrean
I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
national community has accepted totally the Islamic armed resistance in defending its faith, honor and ethics this is a natural consequence in view of the deep Islamic culture rooted in the society. Our Muslim community is prepared to bear the responsibility entrusted to it by Islam in preserving their creed and aspirations. Allah the Most Glorious says:- “Then we inherited the Book to those whom we selected among our slaves.
There were some among them who were unjust to themselves others were moderate and still among them too were those who were always pioneers in goodness by Allah’s grace..”.
In the same vien, Islamic community became united and formidable before the combined forces of foreign imperialists, Ethiopian colonialist and their local stooges that were propagating destructive ideologies.
These various anti-Islamic activities forced the Muslim community to stand up in
■ - ——*--I Page 35 ~	-	-	-
resistance protecting their faith and honor. Confrontations erupted in many places against the nationalist Front such as in (Baraka), (Dankaliyya) and other cities. In the ensuing resistances many Muslims were killed unarmed. These ugly occurrences forced the Muslims both at home and abroad in unifying their programmes, as well as forming a united front in confronting anti-Islamic National elements. Such attempts were crowned with success manifested in the number of various Muslim organizations which participated in the first general conference of Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement. The congress was held between (19th-21st) Rabiul-Thanni 1409, corresponding to (28th-30th) Nov, 1988.
Names of participating organizations were as follows
1:- Eritrean Islamic unity Bureau for Emigrants in Sudan
2:- Islamic people’s Committee for the defence of Eritrean oppressed populace
3:- Eritrean Muslim Captains Organization
4:- Islamic Front for the Liberation of Eritrea
“Allah will indeed help whoever helps His cause, certainly Allah is all-powerful the Exalted”
First General congress of the Eritrean Islamic Jihad Movement 21/Rabiu-Thanni/ 1409.