Mr. Diego Cordovez himself is well aware of this fact that his suggestions about reconciliation, coalition and broad-based goernmetn etc are not dissimilar from the Moscow-Kabul ones. Besides, he workers tooth and nail for the implementation of Russian proposals to prepare ground for a secular government by mellowing and softening some of the Mujahideen under the U.N. umbrella. He seems to be unaware of the fact that all sacrifices and hardships of gallant Afghans are only menat to have a free Islamic government and not a secular regime as suggested by him to please Moscow.
Glancing at the seven years mission of Cordovez, we feel that he fomented tension and differences between the Mujahideen's groups and refugees. Mr. Cordovez has been trying to accomplish what the Russian failed to do. This is a trap for the Mujahideen. Once he seduces one portion of the Mujahideen, they will have only two options: (a) either to join the Afghan Marxist army under the cover of
'government of either coalition or reconciliation’, or (b) to go for a secular government under the pretext of Loi Jirgah, broad-based government, or any other label. This is what Cordovez indicated in an interview with the BBC’s correspondent in New York recently, saying that the Superpowers disapproved an Islamic government in Afghanistan. This move means nothing than paving way for a civil war to wash away the effectiveness of Jehad in the eyes of oppressed peoples of the world who are struggling for freedom, self-determination, terretorial integrity, and justice.
The Cordovez mission, whether under the Superpowers pressure or the hope of Nobel Prize award, aims at obstructing the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan. Such attempts from a U.N. platform will simply perpetuat bloodshed in Afghanistan, because the Afghan Mujahideen are resolved to brave all storms and obstructions to reach their final goal - the establishment of an Islamic government in their beloved country, Afghanistan.
The Mujahideen Monthly
6
November 1988