Jaji Chawni Attacked
The Kabul strategic military headquarters near Pak-Afghan border, Jaji Chawni, in Paktia province has been besieged by the Mujahideen and heavy fighting is going on with R ussian A fghan tro ops, who were air-dropped in the area to free the headquarters.
On the night of 13/14 December Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan (HIA) under the command of Major Abdul Ghani and commander Mohammad Daud have jointly attacked the Jaji Chawni (army headquarters), located 12" kilometres to the west of Tira Mangal, border town of Pakistan. About 500 Mujahideen have taken part in the operation.
The Jaji Chawni is one of the strongest army headquarters, which is usually difficult for the Mujahideen to wipe it out. Once in 1984 the headquarters was wiped out by commander Mohammad Naim, on the price of 22 martyres and several wounded including Naim himself, but it was reinstalled by the Russians. Last September the Russians sent two divisions to Jaji area to reinforce the Jaji Chawni, which resulted on the destruction of 105 tanks and trucks and seven aircrafts were shot down during two months fighting throughout Paktia province.
According to the reports sent by Lieutenant Hassan Niaz, in charge of Hezb-i-lslami Office in Para Chinar, Pakistani town, that the fighting started late in the evening of Dec, 13 and it still continues. Mujahideen were able to occupy 12 peaks ahd important strategic posts from the Kabul troops. .The posts were equipped
with heavy artillery and light weapons.
Niaz said that the commander of Jaji Chawni, Brigadier Allah Mohammad Waziri. district administrator of Ali Khel, Mohammad Shireen, in charge of the party affairs of Jaji army base, Sayd Akram with several Khad (government intelligence staff) were killed. Eight Mujahideen were mat tyred
and 1*6 other wounded, whom 11 of them were very serious and have been transferred to Peshawar.
The reports add that reinforcement troops have beeri sent both by air and land from Kabul, Snahri-now brigade and Gardez, capital .of Paktia province. A lot of commandos have been air-dropped around the base to break the siege ; and save their army base. On the other hand dozens of soldiers have escaped during the night and joined the Mujahideen. The Russian-Afghan casualties are not
-----------------1--------------------
known yet.
Further reports reaching Islamabad- from Jaji area say that consecutive bombardments and shelling of posts occupied by the Mujahideen are continuing by the Russians.
The reports add that four helicopters stationed in the Jaji Chawni, (ar.iv base) for emergency use were destroyed in the
first few hours of the Mujahideen attack on December 13.
Mujahideen have captured two Uboos-122mm cannons, one ZK-1, several dashaka machineguns and a lot of arms ammunition from the military posts. The Mujahideen were able to destroy the main tower of the arm base by operating the captured cannons.
The Karmal troops are strengthening their positions by having fresh troops sent by air from Kabul. Two civilians were martyred on December 15 by the shelling.
Rifle seized
34
The Mujahideen Monthly