EDITORIAL
CORDOVEZ’S SECULAR GOVERNMENT PAVES WAY FOR CIVIL WAR
The Soviet Union from the very beginning of the Geneva talks, June 1982, has been using the U.N. platform for its diplomatic offensives against the Mujahideen under the cover of political dialogue. Mr. Diego Cordovez legitimized the presence of Russian troops and Kabul puppet regime by pushing Pakistan into the negotiation process, which plainly leaves the impression that Pakistan and the Kabul puppet regime are the two sides of the conflict. Yet in his shuttle diplomacy, Cordovez adroitly worked it out that the question of, 'whose army is scorching the Afghan soil?\ was never raised by him in any form. Even in the Geneva Accord he gave a guarantor’s role to the Soviets like that of the Americans and not that of naked invaders and aggressors.
In his whole mission the Afghan Mujahideen were ignored completely. The rights of self-determination and self-expression have never crossed the Cordovez mind. Their leadership, their identity, their Jehad for a free Islamic Afghanistan, their voice, their views, their unity, their interim government, and their feeling have not only been rebuffed, but disgraced by Mr. Cordovez, when he suggests a coalition
government with the Marxists, proposes ex-king Zahir Shah, prsumes government without Mujahideen and further crucially comments that the Mujahideen do not speak for the Afghan nation.
Looking back at the history of the Cordovez mission, the Soviets have always scored diplomatic gains despite shedding blood of innocent people. Each time the headlines of his mission splashed in world newspapers and the news items of the
bloodbath invariably remained buried under them.
The outcome of the Cordovez mission is not less than a stab in the back for the Afghan nation, which has been threatening their socio-cultural and religious values. Even recently in his interview with the BBC he directly attacked the Mujahideen and their goals. While the Afghans are the victim of Russian atrocities, Mr. Cordovez does not give them the right to say 'yes' or 'no' to the hegemony of others. He has been trying to give an erroneous impression that the Afghans are perhaps turbulent, arrogant and unbending people who refuse proposals put forward by him, Kremlin and Najib.
The Mujahideen Monthly
5
November 1988