society should not be delayed. Indeed, every day is in the hand of Allah, and Sheikh Abdullah Azzam understood this very well. After his death, a meeting between Eng. Hekmatyar and Prof. Rabbani was held to formalize their agreement to cooperate in the solution of this problem and for future cooperation.
About 542,000 family ration card holders have received 15 kilograms wheat per month per person plus edible oil, milk powder, sugar, tea and kerosene oil. Unfortunately, this year, shortage of funds forced the WFP to remove sugar and tea from the food list and make big cuts in edible oil and milk powder.
the already depleted forests around the camps.
For those refugees seeking to supplement their own rations, wages have remained virtually stagnant over the last eight years while inflation has risen by at least 10 per cent annually.
(end of “News Review of 1989”)
Refugee Rations Dwindling
Pakistan has expressed concern over declining international aid for Afghan refugees and called upon the world community to assist it in supplementing refugee's food requirements.
In an interview with the German Press Agency, Mr. Ghulam Mohammad Taj said that 70,000 more refugees have entered Pakistan from the time of the February Soviet troop withdrawal up until October 1989, a rate of about 7000 per month. Mr. Taj is Pakistan's Chief Commissioner for Afghan Refugees whose office, together with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, coordinates all refugee-related operations in Pakistan. He said that all together Pakistan is actually playing host to more than four million refugees, including about 3.2 million Afghans registered in camps, about
450.000	unregistered and about
700.000	births among the refugees since their arrival in Pakistan.
The cost of taking care of the refugees is almost 175 million US dollars per year, shared by UNHCR, Pakistan, donor countries and various international welfare agencies. However, the aid has been declining since 1987 and shortfalls in food supplies by the World Food Programme (WFP), the U.N. agency channelling international assistance to refugee operations have also been frequent.
The shortfall in WFP wheat supplies was 400,000 tons in 1988 and
200.000	tons so far in 1989, said Mr. Taj, adding that Pakistan has to bear the burden of these shortfalls and has so far released more than 600,000 tons of wheat for the refugees.
Mr. Taj further said that, against a pledge of 42 million dollars for 1989, the UNHCR has so far provided only 31 million dollars. Now, kerosene oil, the major source of heating, cooling and lighting in most of the camps, is also being eliminated from the rations. This not only will make life difficult for the refugees during the winter months, but also may force them to resort to cutting
Bread is the staple for most refugees.
Recently arrived refugees with makeshift shelter.
20
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990