By Prof. Aminuilalt
Change in Soviet manoeuvre
The Russians have been forced to change their position regarding the Afghan cause. Initially the Soviets were not ready to discuss their troop withdrawal as they wanted the UN mediator to concentrate on the Afghanistan problem only. Later they took the stand that the pullout was a bilateral matter of the USSR and Pakistan.
However, after Gorbachev's emergence as the Soviet leader and his admission that Afghanistan was a "BLEEDING WOUND" for rhe USSR, the Soviets showed willingness to withdraw from Afghanistan within a longer period. To project themselves as sincere and trustworthy they staged a drama by withdrawing six of their battalions from Afghanistan, whereas in reality, it was a rotation of their troops. Confirmed reports say that more than 15000 troops were sent to Afghanistan weeks before the so-called withdrawal.
By taking all these steps the Russians intended to convince the Pakistani officials of their willingness to defuse the Afghan crisis and ultimately to vacate Afghanistan
The Soviets took another step in May 1986, removing Karmal from the ruling hierarchy in Afghanistan. Indeed, this was the beginning of a slow-poisoning process, and he was reduced to the position of a titular head of the Kabul regime. Later he lost this post too as well as the membership of politbureau Obviously. the Soviet strategy was to hoodwink the concerned parties which were not ready to negotiate with a regime installed with the help of Soviet tanks. The Soviet gesture was that the question of the
'ruler in Afghanistan was not so important and they evinced their flexibility on it. And this type of action features the Soviet scheme of things/and also their own set-up. The recent statement of Gorbachev in New Delhi that there were definite possibilities to strike a solution of the Afghanistan problem indica ted the Russians had been forced to change their perception of the Afghan scene.
PARTY TUSSLE:
Of course, the removal of Karmal has intensified the 30-year old hostilities between the Khalq and Parcham factions of the Communist Party. The lust for power alienated Dr. Najib from the Parchamis and he felt no scruples in betraying his mentor and benefactor Karmal.
The replacement of Shah Mohammd Doost by Wakeel as the Foreign Minister of the regime caused further problem for Najib. Wakeel, the first cousin of Karmal, once intended to form Khayber faction of the Parcham party. For this reason Wakeel was sent to Vietnam as ambassador. His return as Foreign Minister might have two purposes: besides offending Kar-malites it could keep check on Mah-mood Baryatai, the brother of Karmal and head of the International Department of the Kabul regime.
Najib will be facing a lot of problems as he lacks the calibre to head a party. It should be kept in mind how Karmal survived while Taraki and Amin were wiped out.
i
The outcast pawn might be reused by the political chess-master as they
did while Amin outmanoeuvred Karmal, Baryalai, Anahita and even Najib for allegedly attempting to impose the Parcham faction on Afghanistan. The Russians tactically kept Karmal out of the scene and finally brought him back as a puppet head of the Kabul regime. The Russians thought that Najib, against his Pashtoon background would be able to infiltrate into tribal leaders; but this did not come true. The experiment fragmented the Parcham faction into pieces: Karmal faction, Najib faction, Sultan Ali Kishtmand faction and so on.
Then the subtlety of the Kremlin brain flowed into a unilateral ceasefire for six months, general amnestry to all Afghans outside the country and inviting the Mujahideen leaders and others to participate in a national government under the Najib leadership. In fact, Gorbachev has his own winks and feints in the so-called peace proposal. fancying that the freedom fighters would be duped into submission. But they have outrightly rejected it, saying the presence of the Soviet troops in Afghanistan makes the offer just a farce. They insist that the only solution to the Afghan issue is the immediate, total and unconditional withdrawal of Russian troops from their land leaving the Afghans alone to decide on their future type of government.
MUJAHIDEEN:
The Mujahideen are in a stronger position than ever before. They are more organized than in the past and have obtained a better fighting experience. They have support of the
The Mujahideen Monthly
19
Jan - Feb 1987