The Mujahideen, September, 1991	;	.	v	•	Page	38	:
the option to marry or remai n unmarried. When she even gets married, her happiness in the marriage is not taken into consideration because she is not given the right to sue for divorce if the needs arise. If she gets married that is final, she can only marry another man if the first dies. The Christians hold tenaciously to the concept which says thus:
“All marriages arc eternally binding therefore divorce is not permissible”!5
In Christianity there is also a concept which says
“Neither was the man created for the woman nor the woman for the man”16
This concept implies that it is not necessary that a woman gets married to a man afterall none of them is created for another. No man is ever created for the purpose of marrying a woman and vice versa.
In the some Christian society there are other contradictory views and one of them is the notion that a woman has the right to inherit from the property of her relations. Christianity gives the women the place in the family and this is a sort of blessing to the woman and way of emancipating the women. According to the unorthodox stand forwarded by some unpopular church leaders in Christianity, it is believed that it is only the American custom that does not give them therighttoinheritfrom theproperty of their father even if she is the first bom. Said Mrs B Kunambi an African Christian woman in her article titled.
“The place of woman in the Christian Community”
“In recent times, in the wake of Christianity brought by the missionaries, there has been an evolution in the place of woman in the family as well as society. This has brought about a feeling of emancipation for woman, the tendency towards more and more independence both on the individual and the family level”! 7
In the light of this, it is apparent that women are given their rightful place in the question of inheritance. The women can inherit as the men can as well. In fact, the portion of the inheritance that goes to the women is unknown for this is not contained in the Bible. Since the Bible is silent on this the portion that a woman inherits, then everything depends on the dictates of the will of the deceased relation. This also depends on the love which the deceased father or the
deceased mother had of the daughter, that is if the daughter is loved more than than the son she will inherit more than the son.
As regards the women’s right io leadership. A woman is not supposed to lead, be it in the Church or anywhere. Women can contribute to the administration of the community but they arc not to rise to the level of being leaders. It is believed that the development of a society asks for women’s integral development. Women can contribute to the development of her society if they have acceptance in their rightful place in the society -— Mrs B Kunambi.18
Concerning religion, women contribute to the development of the church from the time immemorial. However women were never made head of the churches. There was no female apostle in the Bible. The church only desires that the Christian women should become fully aware of the greatness of their mission. The church has no authority to institute a change in the
order of ministry of the sort required for the ordination of women to priesthood.
It is only in modem times that women seek access to the ministerial priesthood which are no doubt moti vated by the desire to serve God and the Church. Jesus Christ who being himself a man chose only men to be his apostles. The church must therefore be faithful to Christ and therefore cannot consider any authori ty of adm itting women to priestly
ordination. 19
In recent times, there are seminaries by the Catholic where women are given theological education and thereby require them to become church leaders. All Protestants (as other churches arc called) have also taken this step and at least women are tolerated in seminary if not totally requited. The larger the familiar presence in the enterprises of theological education will in turn increase the challenge to perhaps a situation where one should say that with increased pressure upon the institutional churches to open their doors to competent trained women and afford them the same opportunity afforded to men.
Any woman who lacks these qualities of sensitivity, talent and, discipline can hardly become a leader anywhere especially in the church.
As regards politics, the women’s involvement is seen as engaging herself in a serious task. This could be as a result of the serious activities
In Christianity, marriage is not viewed as a way of preserving the dignity of a woman as a result of this she is given the option to marry or remain unmarried. When she even gets married, her happiness in the marriage is not taken into consideration because she is not given the right to sue for divorce if the needs arise. If she gets married that is final, she can only marry another man if the first dies. The Christians hold tenaciously to the concept which says thus:
“All marriages are eternally binding therefore divorce is not permissible”15