exploited the people through usury. After Hijrat the system of social justice of Islam replaced it.
The Mujahideen, July! / August, 199
r
\Page 26
-	It was before Hijra that Arabs were divided in their feuding tribes. After Hijra when Islam spread all men turned into brothers.
-	Arabs before Hijra were mostly ignorant, wild and wicked. After it they changed into learned, progressive and good.
-	Before the advent of Hijra the world in general was sinking in ignorance and darkness. After undertaking Hijra Arabs had the torch of
reached that degree of faith (Iman) wherein he transcends all the m aterial benefits for the cause of Islam. In that case Allah (SwT) helps the faithfuls from the sources that were unthinkable for them. When they embrace an unknown future for the cause of Allah (SwT), Allah Almighty too supports them in unknown ways. When man becomes free from the chains of the material bond, he is capable to perform miracles because he knows no more obstacles in his way. That is why Hijrat and Jihad are two basic pillars of Islam. Without them Muslim Ummah is like a heap of sand. Love
knowledge and civilization. This was through Arabs that Europe and America came out of their dark ages and the industrial revolution was possible.
The question arises what is the secret that makes Hijrat catalyst for so many great changes in history. In fact Hijrat (migration from one’s home), is the victory of faith in Allah (SwT) over the worldly considerations as home, property, farms, language, dear relatives and friends etc. It means that man has
for life is an obstacle to Jihad and love for worldly things represents a hurdle to Hijrat. When these hurdles are removed from one’s heart, success is at hand. Hijrat is like a plant planted in some other place that is favourable for the growth of that plant.Even for worldly purposes Hijrat rewards the migrated. Hijrat is a great sacrifice and the manifestation of faith in the power of Allah (SwT). It pays here and hereafter.
Mujahideen cut off power
supplies to Kabul
Kabul (AFP)-power supplies to the Afghan capital have collapsed following a Mujahideen attack of a state-run power station southeast of the city, officials said her on Monday.
Electricity supplies to the capital were first disrupted on Sunday following intermittent clashes between Mujahideen and and government troops, and the blackout continued for more than 24 hours.
A government spokesman confirmed that the blackout was the result of skirmishes and said the city of 1.5 million people had only emergency supplies.