The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991	Page24 ■■■	<•

Work on Islamic Encyclopaedia
in Progress
A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A
lj
>T and the financial obligations were being met by
Work is underway to produce a large 2(),()(X)-page Islamic encyclopaedia covering all aspects of Islamic history, culture and civilization. Four volumes have already been completed and the remaining 30 volumes are expected to be completed by the year 2000. The first edition will be in Turkish language and official sources said English and Arabic versions of the encyclopaedia would be brought out soon after completion of the original Turkish one.
Official sources told IINA one thousand experts and specialists from Turkey, Arab countries, India, Pakistan and African countries were commissioned to undertake this huge work
the Turkish Islamic Turst Board, they said. The sources furthersaid two thousand employees with Islamic background and experience in printing
and publication were employed and the project would cost millions of dollars and the authorities took up the project without expecting any material returns, they said.
In the old quarters of the Ottoman capital Istanbul, the main complex of the encyclopaedia was set up some time back and pictures in black and white as well as colour and other reference works were provided at the complex to help the researchers.
Official sources revealed Saudi Arabia and Egypt had expressed their willingness to undertake the work of Arabic translation. Saudi Arabia also plans to produce all the volumes of the encyclopaedia in an abridged form in one book in three languages including Arabic, English and Turkish. The Turkish venture was started in 1988.
The Islamic encyc-lopedia published in Holland in several volumes was undertaken by Christian clergy men. It, however, contains distortions and false claims as testified by prominent scholars, Muslim or non Muslims alike.
Several short encyclopaedia were produced by Egypt also and Egyptian academics have said they were planning to bring out an Islamic encyclopedia on a very large scale. (IINA)*