Continued from Page 18
of Afghansitan. The last Loya Jirgah had been convened in 1964 for the adoption of the new Constitution. That Loya Jirgah was composed of 455 members, made up of 176 elected members, 176 members of the National Assembly, 34 appointed by the King, 19 appointed by the Senate (which was also an appointed body), 14 appointed by the Cabinet, five by the Supreme Court, seven from the Constitutional Committee and 24 from the Constitutinal Advisory Commission.
"This Loya Jirgah may be said to have functioned as a deliberating and deciding body, as distinct from mere formal functions to endorse faits accomplis.”
The special Rapporteur said that witnesses had expressed serious doubts about the representatives at the 1985 Loya Jirgah and a number told him the represntatives had been selected by the party not the communities concerned.
"He said concurring information suggested that the Loya Jirgah was composed of 176 elected representatives, 247 members of various tribes, 38 members of the armed forces and militia, and II members of the clergy.
According to the witnesses the members were government sympathisers and as such the Loya Jirgah could hardly be said to have been representative of the Afghan people
Moreover, in village where meetings appear to have been difficult if not impossible to organise, elderly people were reported to have been taken by force to act as representatives.
The above contrasts dramatically with claims made by the Afghanistan government about the Loya Jirgah. The government said that 1796 representatives took part in the assembly far more than the Special Rapporteur believes took part — and that . . meeting of the Supreme Council had re-
flected the complete unity of the Afghan people and shown their will to determine their own future”
How could any meeting which excluded representatives of the majority of the people reflect the unity of the people? And how could any meeting which included representatives taken there by force be called democratic?
The reality is of course that the Jirgah was merely a formality — a sham — called to endorse policies alien to the people and imposed on them by a tyrannical government backed by Russian brutality.
If one looks at the 1985 Jirgah one sees in it not just the government's willingness to discriminate against the opposition by excluding its representatives but also its. willingness to pervert the country's institutionts to further its own ends.
REPERCUSSION
That perversion has now permeated all stratas of Afghan society, including the judicial system. In his report Dr Ermacora dwelt at length on the administration of justice since 1979 and how the courts were no longer being used to protect the people's rights but to further the government's repressive policies.
Commenting on the repression the Special Rapporteur said that it was now appeared that the number of persons who had disappeared up to the period of an amnesty that was announced in 1980 by the government was much higher than previously believed.
He said it seemed that shortly after the Karmal government took over in 1979 it halted the registration of names of missing persons because of the high number of complaints.
Dr. Ermacora said no list of missing persons had been made public and no investigation into the whereabouts of those missing
had ever been made.
According to evidence submitted to the Special Rapporteur the Khad (secret police) and members of the armed forces are continuing to torture opponents of the regime. Dr. Ermacora said he had received no information on how many political prisoners were in detention but people were being detained without charge and without trial.
The interim report presented to the Human Rights Commission by Dr Ermacora is his second submission to the Commission. The Special Rapporteur said that the continuing torture of opponents was not consistent with statements made by the Afghan government's representative to the Commission. When the first report was being considered. At the time the government's representative said that under country's'criminal code any person guilty of inflicting cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, torture or corporal punishment was liable to 5—10 years in prison.
Instead of conditions improving for political prisoners the situation has deteriorated and Dr Ermacora said that at Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul a new policy had been introduced which among other things required that political prisoners should now be confined with common criminals unless they collaborated with the party.
Previously political prisoners were kept in conditions different from those of other prisoners, he said.
In looking at the question of trial and detention the Special Rapporteur studied at affidavit sworn by a former judge of the Kabul Supreme Court, Justice Azeem, who now lives in India.
Justice Azeem said that matters normally belonging to the jurisdiction of the civil and criminal courts were being arbitrarily allocated to the regime s revolutionary
The Mujahideen Monthly
23