The Mujahideen, September, 1991

■'■yy
Page 08
initiatives , and if other solutions are unproductive, you should take to a radical armed struggle in stopping the oppression.
The reasons why oppressors would always wish to exploit others are known. Blaming the enemy for one’s defeat is not a better course in a world filled with injustice. It is utmost stupidity to go into battles with a perfect hope that the enemy would lay down his arms and turn in his men without the least resistance. Why haven’t the oppressed populace as a response risen up in arms against tyranny and exploitation? If for one reason or the other, or to be more explicit if people willingly subscribe to an archaic social system, which stands always against progress and revolution at a time when nothing pays better than strong will and a positive break with the past, then nothing besides their own ineptitude and cowardice must be held responsible for their backwardness.
Ironically, this very tradition that ungloriously condemns its own believers into near permanent state of socio-political, economic and intellectual serfdom before other nations is itself devotedly elevated at the altar of oppression by almost every member of the community as the epitome of their own contribution to human civilization!
It is not the want of ideas that the Third World lacks nor the labour, capital and rawmaterialsto be used in furthering technoindustrial development and protecting its societies from capitalist monopoly and Zionist exploitation. What it actually lacks is a dynamic and unified ideological faith that brings forth strong determination and iron will which can put resources together for the cause of a meaningful sovereignty.
Strong faith in a common goal resides in the mind and not on the lips of the leaders or in statutory books nor in the color of the flag or verses of the anthem. Islamically
we must know that true freedom starts from the heart. If the mind still exists in bondage of customs and traditions and the brain is not free from the venoms of passion and superstitions then no hope for the fathers nor their progenies.
Today there are leaders in the Third World who do claim they are out to salvage their people and propel the wheel of progress ahead except that reality has confirmed that they do not believe in anything beside the oppressive religion of fraud and tyranny. They are prepared to plunder the national treasury to the last cent and if possible, mortgage the wholenation as a wedding gift, and more often than not, exterminate villages if not towns and provinces to remain in power....
Do we blame them, when in fact they are nothing but mere seeds of an old and
strong cultural tree of vanity. This is another main reason why many a movement that crops up with the name of Islamic resurgence might never succeed. The points of emphasis in the programmes of a lot of these organizations have always been what should be rightly referred to as subordinate issues. These of course include fanatical concentration on religious ritualism, open defence or unconscious protection of unpragmatic social traditions, shameful apologetism in form of psedo-modemism, mere assassination of tyrannical leaders as well as terrorist oppressional on-slaught and untactical or pure chaotic confrontational programmes with existing oppressive systems. The whole strategy could be summarized as a programme devoid of thorough ideological world-view and lacking basic socio-political spade-work.
The final result of any of the above mentioned objectives is essentially not different from the others. With due
acknowledgements, each of the goals is part of what should be done but could not on its own constitute the absolute aim of a fundamental global or local popular upheaval.
The hightest ambition of a true Islamic revolution is to change an existing oppressive system and establish in its stead a dynamic and just way of life. Both the words “system” and “way of life” mean the same thing. They represent the doctrinal understanding, individual manners, predominant customs, political administration, social behavioral pattern, educational aspirations, legal set-up, military organization e.t.c. These all and more form the general cultural institution of the community.
The objective of Islamic revolutionary movement from what is said so far could be seen to be lofty, comprehensive and eternal. Killing a despotic president for instance or embarking on economic structural adjustment, constitutional amendments, building of mosques and spiritual centres as well as calling zealously to religious enthusiasm are therefore never enough to guarantee desired fundamental and complete Islamic changes in any particular human community. The hori zon has to be broadened and the programmes should be embracing and pragmatic.
The cultural disposition in the society must be reformed and re-channeled to fulfil the triple responsibilities of (i) creating a devoted block among the masses led by sincere dedicated men equipped with true Islamic revolutionary programme(ii) confronting the oppressive socio-political machinery and its operators (iii) guaranteeing the perpetuation and dynamism of the new Islamic system.
Each one of these objectives can never be treated in isolation. It neither means that they must be accomplished simultaneously. What is intended is that the revolutionary programme must take cognizance of these three aims together so that their realisations even if consecutive in time and space are more-or-less automatic and systematic. To achieve or rather create such a methodology, the point of emphasis must always be onhow best to break with the oppressive culture and at the same time initiate a pragmatic substitute so as to avoid sociopolitical and doctrinal vacuum.
Ironically, this very tradition that ungloriously condemns its own believers into near permanent state of sociopolitical, economic and intellectual serfdom before other nations is itself devotedly elevated at the altar of oppression by almost every member of the community as the epitome of their own contribution to human civilization!
In severing the developmental