
Editorial
The Mujahideen, September, 1991	•.	Page	03	3$
difficult to postpone the election process on the plea of the war; but HIA decided to hold elections and presently the party is going
formed by twele persons but today thenumber of its Ark an (members) and Azo (Associate members) are about
Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan, is one of the most organised, disciplined and popular organization of Afghan masses. It has in its folds an army of ideologically committed workers. HIA has also attracted a large number of Afghan itellegentia.
HIA PASSING THROUGH ELECTION P!
through an extensive process for election of its Amir (chief) and central Shoora (consultative body). This is the seventh internal party elections of HIA since its inception in 1969. Its first election was held in the premises of the Kabul University in the year 1972 and a 5-member elected Shoora was formed. The venue of the meeting was the mosque of the polytechnic institute which was participated by about 253 persons who elected the 5-memebr Shoora.
one million so the present election process involves about one million workers of HIA, a developlenmt for which Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan could very rightly be proud of. Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar Amir of the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan addressed a ceremony held at Nasrat Meena, Shamshatu camp, in Peshawar, in connection with the holding of the elections for Amir of and Shoora of HIA. A long number of the members the members and Associate members of the Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
Besides being a well organized party of Afghan masses, HIA is now-a-days regarded as one of the main actors of the Afghan problem. Being a vocal critic of west and especially America, the Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is seen as a major threat to the evil designs of western powers in Afghanistan who are out to install a government of their own choice after the fall of Najib regime i.e replacing one puppet by another.
But these are not the only characteristics for which Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan is cherished by Afghan masses and intelligentia.
HIA has a very good track record
The members included Moulvi Habib-ur-Rahman Shaheed, Engineer Habib-u-Rahman Shaheed, Nusralyar Shaheed and Gulam Rabbani Ateesh Shaheed and Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar (the present Amir of HIA). It is worth mentioning here that out of the twele founding members of HIA who launched this Islamic movement under the leadership of the Ustaz Abdur Rahim Niazi, eleven have embraced martyrdom and its is only its present Amir Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar who is still alive and leading this great Islamic movement. Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistanjiave found in the leadership of Engineer Hekmatyar, a link between its past and
He dwelt at length on the importance of the election process and emphasized that election for Amir and its central Shoora is the basic tenet of our collective system and election process. It is our belief that Amir must be elected by the Ummah; Islam has given this right to Ummah, he said. He, however, said that Allah Almighty has directed Muslims to entrust the right to rule in those people who are capable of carrying out this duty.
Emphasizing the need of the Shoora, Engineer Hekmatyar said that the Shoora ensures solution of our problems, cement our unity and also serve as a strong check against mistakes.
of holding its internal elections at regular intervals, which makes it a fully democratic organization. Even during the Jihad (Holy War) it kept its tradition of holding elections intact; otherwise it would not have been
present. He is witness, rather remained par of all the ups and downs through which HIA has passed since its inception.
Hizb-i-Islami Afghanistan was
Engineer Hekmatyar told the audience that it is now upto you as to whon you give the right to run the affairs of such an Islamic movement which is the centre of hopes for hundred of thousands of martyrs, orphans and widows. You should exercise utmost care in exercising your right to vote. He also threw light on the characteristics which a member of the Shoora or Amir of an Islamic movement should have and asked the members of the HIA to keep in mind these characteristics while exercising their votes.
We hope that HI A would continue to keep its ISlamic and democratic tradition of holding its party elections and it is also hoped that the members of HIA would keep in mind the characters and sacrifices of people to whom they are going to entrust the task of running this great Islamic movement; the address of Engineer Hekmatyar could serve as a guideline in this connection.