from a Communist to a non Communist regime in Afghanistan.
"Ultimately, they will turn to concede the reality and accept the will of the people of Afghanistan," he added.
All that the Soviets were doing with this delay in the inevitable change, Mr. Hikmatyar said, was that they were wasting time and allowing more blood to be shed. "As this graph of changes shows," he added, "they will ultimately surrender to the will of the people-they had better do it before it is too late”.
The	Hizb-i-lslami
afghanistan leader thought, however, that the Soviets would not delay their departure from Afghansitan. “On the contraiy, they will withdraw ahead of the (Feb. 15.1989) deadline".
Considering the overall situation in terms of the Soviets “military defeat" and the "political
Mujahideen’s Commander’s of Panjwai district in a meeting .
He mentioned that when he had read the Soviet Foreign Minister's statement threatening to delay the process of troops withdrawal from Afghanistan, he had addressed a Press conference in Quetta to state that any such delay was not possible. 'The next day, the Soviets denied that they had said such a thing," he said.
Arghandab town bombd by Russian aircraft.
cost" incurred by them, he said, the Soviets were convinced that withdrawal was In their best interest. "Whenever I hear about the possibility of delay, I see it as an empty threat," he said, adding that the Soviets could frighten only those through such threats who were not aware of the real situation on the ground.
He said that during his visit to Kandhar a few days ago, he had been to places barely a kilometer and a half from the airbase which was located in the
city. "The Soviets, with all their might and forces, could not enter these areas in the past ten years. They launched numerous offensives to penetrate these areas but failed."
Engineer Hikmatyar said that if there had been anyone else in place of the Soviets, he too would have realised by now that it was not possible to crush the resistance and to impose a government of one's own choice on Afghanistan.
He said that the Soviet decision to withdraw from Afghanistan was not a rash decision on their part which could be altered. The decision, he said, had been taken by the Soviets in the light of their ten year experience in Afghanistan. “For this reason we say with certitude that they will not delay their departure," he added.
The Mujahideen Monthly
13
November 1988