Though a belated regret and an hypocritical holier-than-thou posture, but this is just the beginning of the story. As for most of the chemical plants in Iraq he writes..” A crackdown on Todes Kramer, or merchants of death, is now under way. Economics Minister Helmut Hassaman has announced that 59 West German firms are being investigated for illegal weapons. In one case, even seven people have been arrested and charged with supplying plans and parts for the chemical weapon plants in the Iraqi city ofSamarra. Therequisite materials were shipped from West Germany under permits claiming that they were for pesticide production...” It may be fair for us to ask here that who is fooling whom? After a decade of massive shipment of materials, active cooperation of multi-nationals, heavy production of bombs, open explosions on towns and villages and documented multi-national authorization...now a crackdown?... on what and by whom?
As for why Ba’athist regime was allowed to go unpunished and even encouraged on this chosen path of terror, the reasons could be understood from both prevalent polices in the West and existing line of thinking in the White House. Today as before, some leading exponents of American politics such as national Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft and the group of “So-called pragmatists around Bush” believed fervently that ...“US must not expand its war aims of go beyond restoration of status quo anti...” The reason for this they argued... “to oust Saddam and weaken his military, might bring host of nasty repercussions, including seething Arab sentiment against the US” imperialists” and their ruling Arab cohorts, a radical shiat take-over of Iraq and the weakening of Iraq as a military counterweight to Iran and Syria..” Says the official lime recently. We can thus see that the continous existence of foreign made ideologies like Ba’athism are therefore very necessary in maintaining imperialist interests in the Middle East and Saddam Hussain on Lhim basis gets away with all crimes. For his and solely on the honor of hisZionist masters.... the sky is always the limit...!
■ The M ujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991 I
Najib's ouster • • •
Continued from Page 14
“This is not our problem to decide the fate of Afghanistan, but to persuade these Afghan leaders for coming closer and resolve their differences,” he maintained.
He affirmed that both Iran and Pakistan had a close contact and cooperation with Tehran and Peshwar-based Afghan leaders for a permanent negotiated peace in Afghanistan.
Meanwhile, Engineer Qutbuddin Hillal, a representative of top Afghan leader Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, pointed out that the 5-pointpeace formula was not acceptable to Hizb-i-Islami and other Afghan Mujahideen groups.
Asked what are unacceptable
I Page 31
points of the 5-point peace formula, he said majority of the Afghan leaders are not accepting the “intra-Afghan talks, mechanism and any role of Najib’s puppet regime in the post-peace process in Afghanistan.
“We are ready to sign a consensus agreement provided Najib regime, Watan and Bhas parties along with role of Zahir Shah in the peace process are eliminated,” he said adding “We consider that continued process of peaceful dialogue will bring positive results.
He, however, ruled out the possibility of participation in talks in which Najib’s representative is also attending.___________________________
leader, Velayati discuss Afghan issue
Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, chairman political affairs Department of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan called on the Iranian foreign Minister Mr. Ali Akbar Velayati, Tuesday (July, 30) afternoon who was in Islamabad in connection with the tripartite most an Afghan issue.
Engineer Qutbaddin Hilal, represented an a representative of the Engineer Gulbadeen Hekmatyar, Amir of Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan.
Both leaders discussed matters relating to the Afghan issue and exchanged views on the ways and means of the solution of the issue.
Dr. Velayati foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of
Iranian, assured Mr. Qutbaddin Hilal that Iran will spare no efforts for the establishment of an Islamic government in Afghanistan, in accordance with the aspiration of its people.
Meanwhile Iran has sought some clarifications from UN Secretary General Perez de Cuellar about his 5-point peace formula of the settlement of prolonged Afghan conflict, as there are some glaring “ambiguities,” Iran has found in it.
This was observed by Iranian foreign Minister Dr, Ali Akbar Velayati while talking to M The Muslim" just an hour before his departure from here following two-day tripartite talks on the Afghan issue. Dr. Velayati said that his countries from UN Secretary General about some of the “vital points” as provided in the 5-point peace formula.	f