
The Mujahideen, September, 1991
mMim Page 26
the dominant institutions be preferred to preaching individuals. The Islamic movements have adopted both the ways of individual reformation and institutional reformation simultaneously.
But it is not the individual approach that has brought all the unlslamic forces against the Islamic movements. If the individual approach were the only way to Islamise society, the unlslamic elements would not oppose them. In reality their struggle to change the unlslamic governments and institutions have made the anti-islamic circles enemy to the Islamic ones. If the Islamic movements continue with their struggle with devotion, patience and prudence, they will succeed because it is in the nature of the right to succeed in the face of evil. Here is given a short account of the Islamic movements in different parts of the world.
The Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt
The Akhwanul Muslimoon of Egypt tolerated much hardships from 1954 to 1971. They faced jail, death, torture and economic shocks. Their party is still banned in Egypt. They appealed against the ban but the verdict is yet to be given by court. They have a journal named “Lawaul Islam”. They jointly work with a political group, “Hizbul Amalul Ishterakia” in the field of politics and elections. As legally they are banned they cannot work under their own label. In parliament they have 35 members who raise their voice for Islam ic system, justice, fair play, freedom and democracy. They have great influence in professional organizations like doctors, engineers, teachers and workers . According to an American analyst their movement is now a “people’s movement”. If free elections held, they would get a strong position. Women are
example.
The Islamic movement in Sudan
Working in their peculiar conditions the Islamists are struggling to unite all sections of society in a common front. On the other hand they are working to influence the elements of the military junta. They are treading a wise path. Due to the Christians’ conspiracies they do not confront but try to get cooperation from the military. Women in Sudan are very active for the cause of Islam. The movement has relieved them of the chains of tribal traditions and instead introduced the real restrictions Islam prescribes.
National Islamic front
This is a political movement working to bring people to its fold. Tanzeem Dawat Islami: This chalks out and implements its plans for Dawat (Preaching) and training. International Relief Agency: It works not only in Sudan but its branches are operating in many African and Asian countries.
The Movement in Jordan
‘Akhwanul Muslimoon’ have an effective group in the parliament. In all they have 30 members in parliament. Jordan is a small country of 4 million population. The Islamic movement is working there under great stress and strain. They are directly influenced by Intifadah movement. They are spreading their influence while faced with Israeli and American hostility for their sympathy with Intifadah. The kingship is also not favorable. They are working well but it is likely they will come across some trying conditions.
Refah party in Turkey
Refah is the representative of Islamic movement in Turkey. They are working in a difficult situation. Jews have a great role in Turkish economy. Europe and America are also very in fluential in Turkey. They cannot afford to see Turkey an Islamic force. Then the country’s constitution does not allow politics under the name of religion because it is a secular country. But despite the odds the Islamic movement is busy in their Jihad. The youth are attracted largely to the movement. The literature of Maulana Mauddi including
playing a great role in their success. The role of zenubul Ghazali is a great