The Mujahideen, September , 1991
Page 30 WM
Similarly, it amounts to open betrayal as much as a violation of the principle of collective association for any government such as the muderous regime in Kabul, to claim representation of a nation then rises eventually above the will of the very people that make up the state.
Islam is the basis of the ongoing resistance in Afghanistan and this faith does not subscribe to any notion of oppression and subjugation. It is therefore a struggle towards preservation of sanity, in a world besieged by arrogant rulers and imperial merchants. The so-called super-powers must never be allowed to act as plaintiffs, prosecutors and judges at the same time and no nation or international organization should be given the right of playing the role of a god on earth.
On this note, Afghans have suffered denials from many quarters since the last half a century. First, by those royal lords and tribal chiefs whose selfish interests over-rode all dictates of collective independence. It was infact to their credit that they succeeded where many had failed, in selling-out the country. Second, by the puppet regime which sits conceited in Kabul with ignominy, afraid to face the people it claims to represent—neither in the battle fields nor at the electoral colleges. These foreign servants are not only executing
the orders of powerful imperialists with total dedication, but are themselves committed to a party-program of destroying the entire nation.
The greatest betrayal however to the cause of freedom i n general, and to Afghan struggle in particular, comes from theexisting global system of justice. This not only provides a haven for the killer-regime in Kabul but also protects other repressive autocracies and despotic monarchies around the world. It is absolutely true that democracy since French and American revolutions has unflaggingly, been striving to lay claim to the disputed throne of a savior, in today’s so-called modem socio-political set-up.
The unfortunate matter in this is the irresponsible attitude of its advocates in global courts of the masses. All the proofs and evidences, forwarded by the West in support of democracy, are heavily marred by proven instances of double-standard policies. Prejudice and discrimination are only outstanding lines of its numerous stripes of cracks. Never-the-less, the biggest flaw of all is the constant manipulation of the rule of law itself by the self appointed champions of liberty in the West.
The international conspiracy against Afghan revolution is well known, but the country still retains the right of calling for a stop to foreign interference.
Afghanistan is entirely a Muslim community and the people need to be given the chance of following the dictates of their faith. W ithout the popular armed uprising against Red Army invaders and their protected stooges at home, the whole nation would have been by now annexed to become the latest victim of imperialist grandiose.
It was an exceptional contribution to human progress and a real feat of achievement in the present world, that the Afghans as a nation hearkened to the call of faith and rallied round the principle of freedom. They surged out enmass in fighting the combined garrisons of traitors and advancing battalions of oppressors. This is in fact a very good precedence, for progenies yet to come, but more important to the course of history and for the search of global peace is the motivating goals behind Afghan resistance.
Mujahideen’s progress towards Kabul has exposed the falsehood in Western theories of rights. Accusations against out-going ideologies today, present a broad array of their flaws. Though humanity accepts freedom as a must and equality as a norm but operating systems as at now, even by the so-called democratic states in the world, are nothing but 'refined variables of oppression. The charges against them