regime continued supplying food and heavy ammunition to the area for the troops, strengthening instead the hands of the Mujahideen!
The forty-three day long battle left 50 Kabul supporters dead, 110 seriously wounded, and 1050 taken prisoner, who were later released. Seventeen Mujahideen embraced martyrdom in the fighting.
The following is a listing of the weapons and ammunition captured..
1.	Light weapons	750
2.	Mortar 76mm	8
3.	Anti-aircraft	10
4.	Mortar DC	1
5.	Anti-aircraft 2 barrel	4
6.	Machine gun	15
7.	Machine gun PP	35
8.	Mortar	11
9.	Tank T-62	5
10.	Shilla Aircraft	3
11.	Dashaka	5
12.	Armour cans	2
13.	Rocket RPG 7	10
14.	Wireless R118	6
15.	Small wireless	6
16.	Machine gun	15
17.	Machine gun PKT	210
18.	Water vehicle	2
19.	Different pistols	9
20.	Huge quantity of ammunition for	
all the different weapons.
The morale boosting victory of Surkally will be remembered for a long time to come, not only because of its geo-political importance but also for the strong faith, perserverance and courage which the Afghan Mujahideen demonstrated in the battle for Taraki’s village.
It was no doubt their staunch faith in the unity of Allah which enabled the Mujahideen to stand like a rock against heavy odds and leave no option for the enemy but to abandon Surkally and lay down their arms before the Mujahideen. It was this same faith which drove the Soviet' forces out of Afghanistan and, Inshallah, the day is not far off when a truly Islamic State, free from all kind of
political, economic, and social exploitation will be established.
Khial Muhammed Taraki (third from the left), militia commander of the kabul regime, cousion of Nur Muhammed Taraki, after surrender to the mujahideen.
(from page 1 7 )
Afghanistan should be cut off.
10.	Moscow must realize that they cannot guarantee the survival of their puppet regime no matter means they use or what price they pay.
11.	We warn the enemies of Islam to refrain from interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan and to take a lesson from the ignominious experience of the Soviets in our country.
12.	It is incumbent upon the Mujahideen to prevent the penetration of moles and spies of the intelligence services like the KGB, CIA, and RAW and to prohibit the creation of events in favour of the enemy.
13.	The enemy has become discouraged from direct encounters with the Mujahideen and therefore has resorted to assassination of the personalities of Jihad, its supporters and well-wishers. We must identify such plots and foil them in time.
14.	We appreciate the unconditional and selfless support and aid of friendly countries, but we resent those who resort to espionage under the cover of affording aid.
15.	We appreciate the assistance
and support of the brotherly nations of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and other Islamic countries to the people of Afghanistan and hope this sympathy continues until the end of the war.
16. Our expectation from the brotherly nation of Iran is that they do not get tired from hosting the refugees in these last hours of life in exile.
(from page 1 5 )
and material loss. On the other hand, during the 40-year reign of Zahir Shah the Soviets suffered nothing. In fact, they enjoyed discount prices on their natural gas imports and inflated earnings on their ekports of old arms and machinery.
When the Soviets admit their invasion of Afghanistan 'was-irn moral and in error, they are not speaking of the Afghans who have been killed, maimed, and terrorized, but of their own losses which were in vain, because the Afghan people would not become Communist atheists no matter what the cost. Sc, when they invite Zahir Shah to return, it is not to allow tf Afghan people self-determination I to return to a policy where they had a‘puppet who, although he was not Communist, carefully followed policies in the Soviet interest.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
31