The Mujahideen, September, 1991
POSITION OF WOMEN IN THE CHRISTIAN SOCIETY
......... 0
whether she gave her consent or not. The master of a female slave could sell her to any man, while the woman by her nature couldnot object to this. It was not also regarded as inhuman to force a slave girl into shameful act by her master during this dark age. There were nothing like rights to be maintained by the man who got married to the women while the women by their nature were not free to cry out or to express their minds on the treatment they were receiving by them.
As regards the right to di vorce,a woman can be discarded away any how and anytime the man felt like doing so.
The Arab way of divorcing women was so babaric and inhuman. Babaric in the sense that the men used to divorce their wives and forbade them from getting married again. A typical example is what happened to Khaula who was divorced by her husband through the Arab’s custom of divorcing women and Allah then revealed a chapter called Suratul Mujadala (the woman who pleads) in her favour.
This custom was held by the Arab pagans to imply a divorce and freed the husband from any responsibility and conjugal duties. This custom did not allow the women to leave their husband’s home or to contract a second marriage. They had a popular statement for this type of divorce that enslaved the women. The statement is:
“Thou art to me as the back of my mother” 3
With this statement a woman is prevented from entering into marriage for the rest of her life, and this type of divorce is known as Zihar.
The women were also treated as inferior beings, to the extent that the men used to claim that they were superior to them since they did not go to war to fight. These pagan Arabs had a very strong tradition that their men alone could inherit because he could fight with spear.
In the Christian Society, women are described as agents of Satan whose voice is comparable to the hissing of the serpents. She is taken to be the scorpion that is ever ready, to sting and the lance of the demon. Women are regarded as the instruments which the devil uses to gain possession of the souls, and the gate of the devil.
According to St Bernard, St Anthony, St Bonaventure, St Cyprian and St John respectively, women are
daughters of falsehood and sentinel of hell. The enemy of peace and of the wild beasts - the most dangerous. At the council of Macon, a bishop vehemently asserted that women do not belong to the human species. Women are dubbed as unclean creatures. Infact, it is the unclean nature of women as claimed by the Christian churches that make the churches to denounce the holiness of marriage.
St Gregory also said:
“Blessed is the one who leads a celibate life and not the image within him wishes the filth of concupiscence” 4
It is also for this reason that the
Page 36 rnmmimrn
church opens the nunneries so that women may escape from the Christian theory and the practice of regard ing them as the sources of all evils. Actually this theory and practice belittle the dignity of women folk.
Careful examination of the position of women in Christianity reveals that the whole structure of the Christian creed is based on the doctrine of original sin. There is a belief in Christianity that the first woman was responsible for this original sin. Eve was believed to have
first committed the sin and then caused the fall of Adam (A.S) According to the above theory, this original sin actually was responsible for the sins of humanity and then God sent His only begotten son to be crucified and to wash off the sins of humanity with his blood.
The Christians condemn woman as the originator of the sin and they always refer to the Biblical portion which says thus:-
“The man said; the woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree and I ate”5
These people condemned the first woman and then transfered their
According to St Bernard, St Anthony, St Bonaventure, St Cyprian and St John respectively, women are daughters of falsehood and sentinel of hell. The enemy of peace and of the wild beasts - the most dangerous. At the council of Macon, a bishop vehemently asserted that women do not belong to the human species. Women are dubbed as unclean creatures. Infact, it is the unclean nature of women as claimed by the Christian churches that make the churches to denounce the holiness of marriage.
St Gregory also said:
“Blessed is the one who leads a celibate life and not the image within him wishes the filth of concupiscence” 4