r
:■	The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 #:	m Page	10
troops could be landed behind enemy’s communication lines.
Bui none of these propositions nor others could be applied here for the mere-fact that the Mujahideen have few heavy weapons needed in prosecuting these ideas.

The simple strategy used by the Mujahideen in Kbost is now again being applied verbatim in Gardez. The clue is this:- (a) Integrated operations, (b) mass mobilization of available forces (c) concentrated use of long range artilleries in bugging down the enemies in their defence positions and hideouts (d) well co-ordinated seige-advance tactics on the enemy and (e) a final man-to-man engagement with light ammunition by the troops.
This method worked well, and is still very effective today in the provincial capital of Paktia. Mujahideen, have suffered losses too because the puppet regime seems to be making a desperate last attemptto defend itself. Najib himself was reported to have visited Gardez under the cover of darkness so as to raise the fighting morale of his troops.
Up to the time of writing: Gardez is completely an isolated city. 1 ts coded messages are conveniently intercepted. No reinforcement could come to the Marxist soldiers except through the air which is itself very risky due to Mujahideen close anti-Aircraft guns. According to some leading commanders on the front, the fall of Gardez would, Allah willing be easier than that of KhosL Some of the military officers of the Mujahideen even contest that the Muslim revolutionary forces have the power today to march on Kabul if Gardez should fall now.
In its belated attempt to prevent total capitulation, Kabul has resorted to using “human shield” as Saddam did in the Gulf to prevent missile attack on thecity. Najib himself has issued instructions not to allow further civilians to leave the city. But in reality this is only a technical difficulty, because by the time Gardez is liberated, Kabul also could be totally isolated from the world forcing all her inhabitants, both ci vil ian and military to surrender under the pangs of hunger. With the fall of Banuzai and Halecm Qila which are at close vicinity of Balahisar fort, and with the capturing of Ealadeh and Fort Najib that both fall to the South of the city; The Mujahideen could be said to be a kilometre and a half from the heart of Gardez.
The heavy aerial bombardment of Mujahideen positions by the puppet regime would not help it nor would the Western orchestrated so-called peace initiatives. The solution lies in Jihad. If the UN or other self-made friends of Afghan Mujahideen really believe in ending the Afghan conflict, let them hands off rather than increase Lheir interference. Let Afghans choose their owrt set of new leaders instead of others imposing a distrusted personalty on the nation. In short the people must be given the total freedom at removing Najib and his unpopular regime as much as the complete liberty of establishing a truly representative Islamic state.Q
Dynamism of Faith
Let the Will of Allah be done and we should raise His name even at the point of death. Our entry must be to fulfil His word, as our exitmustbea testimony in H i s cause. The strength of a man resides in his mind and the 1 ink with his Lord projects from his faith. Islam covers everything in the life of a Muslim. The Holy Qur’an is the highest authority in any truly Islamic community. In the appointed ■•Messenger of Allah lies the best exaihple for all -sincere believers. A good Muslim prefers to be martyred, than bows to the enemy of Allah. Faith in Allah, submission to His law s, obedience to His orders, devotion to His cause, rebance on His care and martyrdom on His path, are all attributes of a Muslim Mujahid. Allah indeed has saidr-
”Among the Believers are men who are truthful to what they contracted Allah upon. Among them have already fulfilled their vow (ofmartyrdom) and (others} among them are waiting (for their own turns). While they have not dishonoured their pledges in any form.” (Al-Ahzab 33:32)
When a Muslim is sincere in Faith, Islam becomes his mother and father. Islam becomes his relatives, race, nation and tribe. Islam overtakes his thinkings and doings. He is a Muslim dead or alive. He gives all he has readily away for the cause of Islam. Allah says:-
ftAmong humanity is such that would sell himself out to seek the pleasure of Allah and Allah is most Compassionate with His slaves. (Al-Baqarah 2:207)
But if one pretends to be aMuslim.retaining only the name, while casing off the Islamic way of life of true faith and complete obedience to the Most Gracious, then Islam to such is assumed to be a costume that could be changed at random. Since he appears today in a form and tomorrow in another. He introduces himself as a Muslim whenever material benefit is involved, but later violates the simplest code of conduct expected of a believer W;hen he is admonished to reform and amend, he mistakens consultation for confrontation, and becomes obstinate and violent. His account lies with Allah. The Most High says:
\
'‘Whenever he turns away, goes about on earth spreading iniquity there-in, destroying cultivation and husbandry, while Allah loves not mischief. But if told (to) fear Allah, he is seized by arrogance in pervertedness. Enough is Hell For him and miserable it is a place of rest.” (Al-Baqarah 2:205-206). •
mssxxmm'tr j