I am compelled to communicate to Your Excellency :
'These allegations are the following :
1.	Indisciimmate mass killing of civilians, particularly women and childien.
2.	The use of anti personnel mines and of so-called toy-bombs.
3.	Systematic	discrimination
against persons not adhering to the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan.
4.	The non-representative nature of the Loya Jirgah called on April 1985
5.	The non-respect of the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War and the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of 12 August 1949.
"In view of the serious nature of these allegations, the co-operation of your Government would seem to be of major importance. . . . However, I feel compelled to reiterate my invitation to Your Excellency s Government to extend its co-operation to ensure that the General Assembly and the Commission are presented with the most complete and accurate information available."
RECOMMENDATIONS
In conclud'n9 his report the Special Rapporteur made several recommendations and stressed some that he made in his first report to the Human Rights Commission.
He said : "The human rights situation in Afghanistan, far from improving, has deteriorated .furhter and the Special Rapporteur therefore reiterates the recommendations already made in his report to the Commission on Human Rights '.
Among other things he said in his first report : "In the light of the situation described above, the
Special Rappoiteui is of the view that as a first step, the Government ought to make every effort to reestablish a national consensus. As requued by his mandate, the Special Rapporteur is -«equested to formulate proposals to contribute to ensuring full protection of the human rights of all lesidents of the country, before, during and after the withdrawal of all foreign forces.
. "Therefore, an indispensable requirement for this national consensus is the withdrawal of all foreign forces and the elimination of foreign influence...
♦There must be an immediate commitment to, and application of, the norms of human rights and humanitarian law by all parties involved. A fundamental law or constitution should be promulgated in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. The rule must be re-established in the country in a manner which is consistent with these international standards.
*ln the process of correction and healing wh'ch lies ahead, a
dialogue with the international community will be -vital as well as its subsequent support. The Special Rapporteur therefore appeals to the Government of Afghanistan to co-operate w;th the Commission on Human Rights in its efforts to impiove the situation of human rights. Co-operation with the Commission offers the possibility of reconciliation and restitution of human, rights."
Dr Ermacora also recommended that the right of the four million refugees to return to their homes freely and safely without fear from any persecution should be formally recognised and respected their property should be restored and an effective general amnesty should be proclaimed by law for everyone, regardless of theii political opinion.
He said the parties directly involved in the conflict should co-operate fully with the United Nations and with all the humanitarian international organisations and specialised agencies and take urgent measures to restore civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights in Afghanistan.
The Russians will cut our hands and feet but can not cut our hearts.
26
The Mujahideen Monthly