sss:s;s^	The	Mujahideen,	September,	1991	Page	41
accomplishments.
During any political struggle for survival or supremacy, every priority must be given to the ability in any serious revolutionary movement to convince and control the people, since political authority depends on social solidarity. Gorbechev refused to learn lessons therefore from the first unsuccessful Communist revolution of 1904, where by, the ruling monarchs were able to win back the masses after having been earlier lost to the Marxist revolutionaries. Since Mikhail practically had nothing to show his own people as direct achievements of the new philosophy for which almost every section of the society seemed to have sacrificed endlessly, the opposition of the nation therefore was more than meritorious. Similarly, the conspiracy of his own colleagues was more than consequential and the temporary applause that greeted his less than seventytwo hour exit from power especially from the Third World was more than deserving.
It appeared then that the Soviet president was himself more interested in having absolute power and in staying in authority longer than his predecessors, than he was in forwarding the wheel of real and radical social changes. Whether he got what he wanted or not needed further examination and detailed analysis, but one thing was certain, that he proved himself at be an incapable king,overarestlesskingdom,atacrucial
time when only dynamism and strong will were of paramount importance.
On the international scene, but for the last coup d’ etat, Mikhail Gorbechev was the final arbiter or the last voter, whose position in international politics became a barometer of what lied in wait. No one had proved this devotedly with staunch religious fanaticism as much as George Bush. The first man in the White House would not execute a major decision approved by American Congress or supported by the entire nation except he was sure Soviet leader would actively not oppose or at least give his tacit approval by looking the other way.
What exactly gave the leader of the Communist Union this unique opportunity was the position he occupied as the president of a country that stretched from one comer of the globe to the other. It also has a population greater than the Arab states put together including the whole of Middle East and with natural resources higher than that available in Europe. According to reliable military sources, and confirmed likewise by United States officials, the Soviet Union is still the only country in the world capable today of turning America into ashes within question of minutes.
In the same vein, Communism, prior to Gorbechev’s first ascension to power, was a leading ideological challenger of Capitalism and its camp
could effectively match Western military might in sophistication, number and established geo-political alliance. It followed therefore that Moscow was never a mere force to reckon with but a major power or more properly front-liner in all important global discussions.
Putting the above mentioned brief survey in mind, one could actually understand why any social upheaval in the Soviets, or political blunders by its president or even geo-military and economic miscalculations by its leadership could become a real global calamity if no break was applied.
As we have repeatedly mentioned, the world is no more a planet inhabited by absolutely independent human communities, even if there are international diplomatic illusions to that effect. The fact is that human socioeconomic and geo-political developments have reached a crucial stage that individual sovereignties are mere paper gestures. In reality a new global nation is in the making which would eventually re-unite humanity as a single entity.
USSR, as acountry possessing the five qualities of a super-power, which are said to be (a) wide space-area, (b) high population (c) extensive natural resources (d) huge conventional military machine (e) large sophisticated neutron capability, has both the natural responsibility and ideological obligation to maintain world peace at all costs. But Gorbechev appeared to have been a wrong man in a right place. Being also a president of a country founded on revolutionary zeal, even if socialist, could himself be well accused of ideological betrayal to his political party and treasonable felony to the good of his nation and the entire human race.
Although there were some good points to his credit during his pre-coup tenure of office. He broke some of the old diplomatic taboos in international politics, introduced substantial rational constitutional reforms, allowed satellite states of Stalinist Communist empire to
No readers are coming: Marxist literature turning into trash