KABUL PROVINCE
Noorullah, a Mujahid from the Kabul city cells of Hezb-i-lslami is reported to have been martyred by the police after he was surrounded in a Kabul elementary school.
Noorullah, 18, had hidden in the Lai Mohammad elementary school, opposite Radio Kabul, after shooting to death two Russian soldiers and an officer on Feb. 15.
The regime's security forces surrounded the school and ordered Noorullah to surrender. Noorullah defied them and threatened to shoot anyone who tried to enter. The police then threw hanct-grenades into the school, martyring Noorullah and badly damaging the school property.
RUSSIAN CASUALTIES ARRIVE IN KABUL
Plane-loads of Russian bodies and wounded are reported to have arrived in Kabul in mid-February from Herat following fierce fighting in the province between Mujahideen and enemy forces.
According to an MPA despatch the casualties were flown in special transport planes with full medical facilities. The agency says that the heavy fighting in the province is continuing and that the Russians have suffered unprecedented casualties in the two week long engagements.
The agency also said that a large number of Afghans have demonstrated in front of the Defence Ministry in Kabul protesting that relatives, who have either been killed or wounded in Heart, have not been flown to Kabul because the regime is giving priority to the Russian casualties.
REGIME CONTINUES TO PURGE KHALQIS
The Karmal regime is continuing its purge of hard-line Khalqis from the government, according to the MPA.
The MPA, quoting a reliable source in Kabul, said that the Interior	Minister,	Sayed
Mohammad Gulabzoy, seemed set for dismissal. The source said that despite being popular with the Russians, Gulabzoy's authority had been curtailed and three staunch Parchamites had been appointed as the first, second and third deputies of the Ministry to keep track of his performances.
Two leading Khalqis, Dastagir Panjshiri and Assadullah Sarwari, have already been sackd from the cabinet Gulabzoy and Watanjar, who were appointed Ministers when Taraki was in power, are the only Khalqis left in the Cabinet.
LAGHMAN PROVINCE
The Hezb-i-lslami Mujahideen are reported to have launched victorious attacks on enemy positions at Khan Qilla, Mesri Qilla and Nawi Qilla.
The three-pronged attacks were launched simultaneously on Feb. 12 and resulted in heavy Russian casualties. The operation lasted four hours and ended when the enemy and their militia retreated.
A total of six Mujahideen were martyred and seven seriously injured.The Mujahideen reportedly captured a large quantity of arms and ammunition.
The Mujahideen Monthly
24