mm
IMDMfi
)
m&ss 6© Me©
9
CEfi° S
/ would like to thank the Editor of the Daily Jang for arranging an International Seminar on the Afghanistan problem which is of great security importance to all the countries of the region.
The previous debaucherous and unrepresentative governments of Afghanistan by declaring war against the Mujahideen of the present Central Asian occupied Republics and forcing the refugees to go back to the Russian occupied land helped the Russians to invade Afghanistan, after more than half a century. Had they acted otherwise, Afghanistan today
would not have been the victim of a similar invasion and aggression.
The Russians have not been able to make an Afghan Army in their six years of aggression in Afghanistan. What they call the Karmal troops are all those people between the age of 13 to 70, whom they round up from the villages and send forcibly to thp barracks. The number of these prisoner-cum-soldiers is hardly 40 000 men.
If you are not able to stop your enemies half-way — when they arrive at your gates — then you will have to fight them inside your house.
'• All those inviduals and governments who in a servile manner
mmiiDMtiw
indulged in the protection of Russians interests in Afghanistan faced their wicked destiny. Zahir-Shah was opprobriously deposed, Daoud, Taraki and Amin were butchered at the Russians' hands and Karmal is counting down for the same fate.
Some people claim that the "revolution” was necessitated by the prevalence of a feudal system in Afghanistan. We say all the leaders of the so-called revolution were
aristocrats themselves. Daoud, the founder of the communist movement, owned thousands of acres of land all over the country and Karmal and his colleagues are famous aristocrats,
Those who claim that the Jihad in Afghanistan is a fight between the Americans and Russians, are the people who are biding their time to take over, like Karmal, by dint of force of the Russian tanks and military hardware.
Some are justifying the naked aggression of the Russians in Afghanistan, We believe the worst form of slavery is the inability to call a spade a spade before one's master.
Some people are proposing direct talks with the impotent Karmal regime, a regime which has no mandate or authority. We believe the Russians are des-
14
The Mujahideen Monthly