The Mujahideen, September, 1991

mnrnmKsm^mmsmm^age 40 Mmmsm
IbnAbayomi
The midnight coup that led to the disgraceful removal of Soviet President, Mikhail Gorbechev and the second day unceremonious reinstatement were never big surprises, if any at all. The message here is to emphasize the revolutionary lessons that surfaced as a result of the sudden exit and re-ascension of a man whose words and actions have altered much of the global geo-political structure, at least, for almost a decade now.
If Bolshevism did prove itself worthy, rightly or wrongly as the most deserving heir to Czarist monarchy, the latest coup plotters mainly from the Communist fundamentalists as well as the so-called liberal opposition among the pro-West politicians, have both failed to justify why the baton of authority should be handed over to them.
Revolutions, by all definitions, start from individuals but never end up with minorities. They are burning ideas and comprehensive programmes transferred from particular convictions of a man or a group of dedicated workers and activists, to popular acceptance of a nation or race for realization. No fundamental	socio-political
reformations, no matter how logical or grandiose, can be effectively accomplished if they do not enjoy the people’s confidence and participation.
Gorbechev like his comrades-in-arms misfired on this note in two ways. One: He proceeded on what could be termed the greatest ideological blunders of our time because he lacked clear and comprehensive picture of the
so-called reform which he intended to execute. The repercussions too were no less catastrophic. The whole Soviet economic system was not only exposed to international ridicule, even from the developing and underdeveloped countries which should be the last to jest at others but also its failures were deliberately exaggerated out of proportions. Two: The Soviet central leadership, by design or chance, became entangled in internal squabblings with almost every republic. These were cases emanating from various separatist movements through out the empire. More irritating, above all, was the apparent inability of thepresident to first safeguard the nation as a unit entity, rather was himself a too-willing accomplice in the whole politico-economic confusion.
From these two points alone, one can justifiably say that what Gorbechev announced to the people on what he wanted was a new Soviet kingdom and on some occasions did use the term “going back to the original Marxism” in rebuilding the Union.
Unfortunately this ambition has remained best on paper and would have been sufficentas his own contribution to Communism if left thus. Today, his perestroika is nothing more than another word for chaos and the glasnost he much preached could now be regarded as a modern political term for national disaster.
His dilemma is of course explainable. He was one of those who fanatically believed in revolution from above instead of grass-root upheavals. He wanted to effect basic socio-political changes by merely re-drafting another party manifesto and acquiring more presidential powers through un-popular constitutional approach without getting in touch pragmatically with the masses.
In all places and at all times, the rowdy population of the society that forms always the majority could by nature be deceived a while by slogans and symbols, but in the final analysis this section judges rhetorical dialectics on the basis of practical