By f Speen
A testimony of a defectee of the Kabul army
"We had two posts in Espendi, five kilometres southwest of Ghazni on the Kabul-Qandahar highway. One of the two posts belong to KHAD (government intelligence) and the other to Sarandoy (police force). We were equipped with three tanks, one four barrels ZU-23, known as Shilka, four heavy machineguns, one 82mm cannon, and 45-kalashinkov". said a defectee of the Afghan army who did not want to disclose his name for the security reasons.
"During the day time we checked civilians cars, trucks, and buses on the highway and from late afternoon on wards we watched the Mujahideen's movements, particularly trying to prevent them from entering the city for anti-government activities", he added.
When I asked him what made him detect, he narrated that on the night of December 14 they were expecting the Mujahideen's attacks as usual. All 50 men were present on duty. They were scared that the Mujahideen would again make a nocturnal raid. The previous night the government troops suffered losses not exactly known to him. But the defectee could guess from the face of an angry Russian officer.
"Night was calm, cold and starry and we were watchful and raised our ears on any sound being afraid of the Mujahideen's movement. Suddenly the silence was broken by the rumbling tanks coming out from division No. 14 of Ghazni. For us the noise was not strange and we thought that the Russians or Afghan tanks might have got a word on the Mujahideen caravan. They could ambush any time,'1' the defectee
The Mujahideen Monthly
mind to join the Mujahideen. They contacted the Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan and Hara-kat-i-Inqilab Islami Afghanistan. The Mujahideen offered 1,200,000 Afghan currency for their surrender with arms and ammunitions. The defectee said that he and his friends could not discuss the matter with all the people in the posts so he suggested a surprise attack.	,
On December 18 the two Mujahideen groups jointly launched an attack and after two hours fighting, helped by the defected soldiers they took over both posts. During the fight five officers, who had been posted just four days before, were killed and 12 soldiers were arrested alive, including three defec-tees.
About 20 soldiers succeeded in defecting and left everything behind. The Mujahideen captured one four barrels ZU-23 (Shilka), four heavy machineguns, one 82mm cannon, 25 Kalashinkovs with 60 boxes of rounds and three tanks. The defectee added that it was difficult for the Mujahideen to ^jrive the tanks to a safe place, so they put mines with electric fuse and exploded all the three
said.
After a few minutes the tanks reached their posts and encircled them A senior Russians officer came out of a tank and called the commanders of the posts roaringly. He was talking about last night’s incident in which two senior officers were killed by the Mujahideen inside the city. The Russian officer accused the Afghan army officers of not doing their job properly.
The defectee said that the Russian officer was arguing that the Mujahideen had entered the city from the western side and after completing the operation they took back the same route. Yet the Afghan commanders denied the allegation of being sympathetic to the Mujahideen.
The defectee added that at the end the Russian officer asked four Afghan officers and one soldier to accompany him. The Afghan officers went away with him and they did not turn up till next morning. Both the posts reported to their headquarters in the city about the incident.
Around lO'OO a.m. two groupk; one from KHAD and the other from Sarandoy, came to find the whereabouts of their men. After making an inquiry they followed the trail of tanks. Going about one kilometre from the post to the east, they found all five stabbed and bayoneted by the Russians last night for avenging the killing of their officers at the hands of the Mujahideen.
"I feared that one day I would also meet the same fate", the defectee said. He shared this apprehension with his trustworthy colleagues and we made up our
Jan - Feb 1987 39