Social Services of the Hezb-i- Islami
The Social Welfare Committee of the Hezb-i-lsiami is divided into five directorates to help the needy in the camps and inside Afghanistan.
First is the General Directorate of Heirs of Martyrs'which in June this year distributed more than 20 million rupees
in the seventh round of periodic assistance provided three times a year to families of martyrs inside Afghanistan and in the camps. A total of
50,000	families of the Shaheed have been helped through these programs: monthly assistance is distributed to 1526 families, periodic assistance to 38,931 families, and bonus aid to 9533 families.
The Directorate of Orphanages runs three orphanages in Pakistan and is hoping to set up six more in Afghanistan. In Pakistan there are 2500 orphan students and 1300 boarding orphans.
Injured mujahid learning to walk again.
The Directorate of the Handicapped gives about 700,000 rupees monthly to about 2500 handicapped, distributed on the basis of their handicap and their need. In addition, the Handicapped Rehabilitation Center provides treatment, medicine, artificial limbs, and courses in Islamic studies and literacy. Wheelchairs, including specially-designed and motorized types, are also available on a limited basis through this program.
The Directorate of Released Prisoners gives monthly assistance to 2000 prisoners in jails in Afghanistan and 700 families of prisoners. When released, the prisoners are given a small amount of cash to help them until they find lodging and work. If they are single, they are accommodated in special lodging where they can stay until they find work. Courses are provided at the center and they are given priority for employment in the different departments of the Social Welfare Committee, provided they are qualified and pass the selection test.
Every donation to the Social Welfare Committee is recorded and every expenditure is monitored. Further information can be obtained by writing to P.O. Box 397, Peshawar, Pakistan.
Eng.G.Hekmatyar visiting orphans inside
Afghanistan
Eng. G. hekmatyar visiting a sick child.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
23