The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 22
The on-going battles in different parts of the world between the people’s call for freedom and justice in the face of authoritarian rule of terror by these so-called popular goverments and self-appointed champions of human rights will not cease as long as oppression remains anywhere on earth.
The revolutionary journey to Kabul is a testimony here too. The Mujahideen though after much difficulty have been able to make their advances towards the capital more consistent in recent times. Afghan Jihad therefore serves as another demonstration of this fact that the natural instict of liberty that resides studdedly in the fathom consciousness of man will always prove itself undefeatable; tentative occurences do not matter. It’s momentary suppression or temporary silence which
could make oppression to brag and prop before its hypnotized beholders a little while longer does not actually change the essential potentiality of the people’s capacity to fight back in the future. The most important thing is the natural capability to resurrect or resuscitate, via the love of freedom and liberty that both form the essential characteristics of human Will-power on earth.
It is this natural attribute in man that makes the continuation of global ideological struggle, whose out come in turn determines the velocity of hum an civilization at a particular point, a must. Kabul or no-Kabul, Afghans first and foremost are humans who believe in Islam and their present demand they should be given the chance to rule themselves is too natural to be silenced.
This is another reason why the on-going Jihad is very important in understanding some of the complexities surrounding global revolutionary struggle. Afghanistan is a country which enjoys unique socio-political and ideological tenents in a similarly distinctive homogenous religio-cultural and politico-geographical neghbourhood. The mere thoughts that Hindokush was the last revolutionary centre from which Muslims managed to govern the entire sub-Indian continent for more than eight hundred years sends waves of uneasiness through out the imperialist capitals. This is also beside the fact that many of the powers that be today have at one time or the other been militarily humiliated by these freedom-loving populace of Afghanistan. The common and major anxiety is that this country would again serve as twenty-first century revolutionary base for the oppressed masses
of the world and eventually history could repeat itself if Muslims could dominate the region again.
But it was the British empire which successfully terminated the first Mongol attempt at changing the geopolitical structure of the sub-centinent, making the above mentioned apprehensions quite unfounded. In revolutionary struggle involving two apparently
-j---oppossed ideologies,
sophisticated weapons plus ammunitions and battalions especially when highly trained are without doubt advantageous. But in the final analysis time is certainly in favour of such ideological message that is closer to the natural disposition of man. Here victory will eventually go to that camp which practically and not merely theoretially believes in freedom, liberty and self determination, since these qualities are all innate in most men.
The longevity of this particular time of transformation may be reduced or increased by real battle preparedness. Physical fitness, strong strategic and tactical experience could play vital roles but in the long run victory belongs in the end exclusively to the group that in reality will liberate humanity from oppression and advance the global revolutionary struggle.