USSR would have a common interests to weaken the Mujahideen in Afghanistan.
After receiving assurance from the rulers of Iran that they will not interfere in the internal affairs of the Soviet Union, the Soviets have given the Iranian clerics a more free hand in contacting Muslims in the Soviet Union. This is a devious move by the Soviets because they know that by creating multiple sects among Soviet Muslims the probability of internal clashes will greatly increase among them. Those who are converted to be Shia will be less influenced by the Afghan Sunni Muslims. This is indeed the old British policy of divide-and-rule.
The Soviets have given another “bunch of carrots” to the Iranian government in the form of various cultural and economical agreements. The combined effects of the Soviet influence on Iran and the Iranian perception that a strong Sunni government in Afghanistan is contrary to their nationalistic interests is in the opinion of this writer determining and governing the Iranian policy and behavior towards Mujahideen and Mohajcreen (refugees).
The outline of the current Iranian policy toward Afghanistan can be traced from their behavior and statements demonstrated over the past three years:
1-	Iran has tried hard to interfere with the unity of the Afghan Mujahideen. Towards this goal they hand-pick, and support those elements among the Shia Afghan Mujahideen who are anti-Sunni Mujahideen leaders. A go0cf example is the heavy Iranian support of Mr. Mazari, a prominent member of' Hczb-i-Wahdat..A reliable witness
g The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 gg
has related to this writer that Mr. Mazari has repeatedly remarked that “Najib is better to us than any of the Mujahideen Sunni leaders since Najib will give us a greater share of power.
Another example is the negative role played by Iran is the February 1989 consultative council that created the AIG (Afghan Interim Government). At that time Iran put itself forth as the spokesman for the Iranian-based Mujahideen parties and made unreasonable demands. Because of this interference, the Iranian-based Mujahideen did not join the AIG which was one of the several reasons the AIG did not succeed. Iran appears to use the Shia parties to further her designs.
2-	In order to please the Soviets and also to further their own plan of reducing the chance of Mujahideen success, the Iranian regime has developed cordial ties with the illegal regime of Kabul. Disregarding the martyrdom of over one million Afghan by the Kabul regime and instead of following the original goal of the Islamic Revolution of Iran to help Islam and Muslims, the Iranians are systematically catching Mujahideen (mostly Sunni) in Iran and placing them in the hands of Kabul secret police across the border. So far oyer 12,000 such cases have been reported. Reliable sources have confirmed that the Iranian immigration and border authorities consult he Afghan secret police of WAD before they allow any Afghan refugeek to exit.
3-	Great restrictions are placed on the Afghan refugees living inside Iran. They are allowed to work only in specified low status jobs and live in places that are strictly guarded. Awhile back in Zahidan, when a group of guards were ordered to
mmmmwmmmmPag*26
shoot refugees who refused to live in a prison-like place. The shooting caused the martyrdom of thirty Afghan refugees. It was because of the cruel treatment of the refugees and the Iranian anti-Mujahideen policy that many Shia leaders such as Ayatullah Mohseeni (leader of Harakat Islami Afghanistan, Khalili (of Nasr), Hashimi (of Hezbullah), Mehdavi (of Shoora-i-Ittifaque), Taqaddussi (of Pasdaran), Gebraely (of Jabha-i-Muttahid), Haidary (of Niro-i-Islami), Iftikhari (of Nahzat-
i-lslami) and several others left Iran and established their offices in Pakistan. This mistreatment of the refugees was also the principal reason that the Hezb-i-Islami Afghanistan reminded the Iranian government of their discriminatory and unfairpolicy toward fellow Afghan refugees and Mujahideen.
4-	The Iranians know that because of Eng. Hekmatyar’s popular base and military strength in Afghanistan he has a great potential for establishing a strong Mujahideen administration in Afghanistan. This is exactly what the Iranians do not wish for Afghanistan. The establishment of.Shoura-i-Ittelaf in Peshawar which has improved the probability of Shia-Sunni unity against any international conspiracy and which has cordial relations with Eng. Hekmatyar also stands as a hurdle in the path of Iranian goals. In summary, Iran’s policy towards the Afghan Mujahideen is to prevent them from forming a strong Islamic government in Afghanistan. To enforce this policy Iran is doing the following:
%
a)	Using her economic, religious and geographic (influence to cause disunity among Mujahideen.
b)	Cooperating with Najib’s regime and acting as a conduit for