
The Mujahideen , April/May, 1990
Jihad, not vengeance
By I bn Abayomi
The situation in Afghanistan needs a new understanding from an Islamic perspective. This becomes very necessary in view of the fact that many today still find it difficult to define their objectives. The purpose of J ihad is not just to win a war but also to build a nation. Defeating an enemy, without reconstructing the society is nothing but “a conflict of ego.” Therefore, in wining the war, minimum destruction should be inflicted so that the next phase of re-construction will not be too tedious if not impossible. For any nation to progress, its citizens must feel collectively a sense of belonging. This is only when each individual will put in his or her best by sacrificing his rights and pleasures for the good of all. But if, for one reason or the other,some members of a community are denied the opportunity of having a sense of belonging, no merit can be expected from them. Rather they will form a clique that will pose the greatest threat to the entire society. What is required of Gen. Najib is to step down and flee. This will without doubt put an end to the present sufferings of millions within and outside Afghanistan. In case Gen. Najib refuses to relinquish power, but some of his lieutenants are prepared to repent of their past, then their services should be utilized to oust Gen. Najib.
Yes,it is true that the Afghan Muslim nation has indeed sustained the worst atrocities at the hands of Gen .Naj ib and his former colleagues. But Allah consoles the wronged with His reward, and the repentant wrong-doer also with His mercy. The sole condition is that
both the injury and repentance must be for Allah and Allah alone. Allah is the most Merciful all Gracious. No matter how deep a man is a wrong doer, the mercy of Allah is greater. Allah says :
“Tell my worshippers have wronged their own souls that they must not lose hope of Allah’s mercy. Allah forgives all sins. He is indeed the oft Forgiving most Merciful” (Az-Zumar 39:53) The religion of Islam is intended to be a mercy to the worlds and nota vengeance on its seekers, a succor to humanity and never a calamity on mankind. Islam sends its message of hope and bliss to all men irrespective of their crimes, in as much as they repent and reform themselves.
This was how in the beginning Islam recruited the best brains and enlisted the service of the most competent hands. There was ’Umar ben Khattab, known by all inMakkah for his atrocities against the young Muslim community.
He was an enemy of Muhammad (Peace be upon him) and an adversary of his mission vocal in opposition and ruthless in persecution. But the door of repentance was kept wide open for him. Umar entered and infidelity crumbled behind him. Islamic history took a new turn and in his time Islam crossed the Arabian Peninsula to become a global force. Khalcd ben Walid was another. Thirteen years in Makkah, he spent fighting Islam. Muslims had to migrate in search of peace, but he kept leading against them series of intrigues, until he nearly killed the Prophet (on him be peace). Islam remained unchanged and Khaled saw the door of hope before him. He grabbed the cord of repentance to become the greatest Muslim general that has ever lived.
After spending nineteen years assaulting Islam. Amr ben As went to Madinah seeking forgiveness. Muhammad (PBUH) forgave him and Islam accepted him into its folds. He become a leading Muslim commander and died propagating the faith and it was he who took Islam into Egypt. Ikramah ben Abu-Jahl and Abu Sufyan were arch enemies of Islam too. Their hands were stained with the blood of the oppressed and their lives were spent tormenting the Muslims. They represented oppression in Makkah and supervised battalions against Madinah, but the door of repentance and hope was never closed. They joined the new movement and became leading Islamic figures.
Afghanistan belongs first and foremost to Allah and the purpose of its Jihad is to establish Islam on earth. This can only be accomplished if culprits are given opportunities to reform. Wethere-fore need to intensify our armed struggle but at the same time to keep our door open for repentants wishing to join Mujahideen. (•)
Page 45