tell you that many of these boys are going to be the heroes of our history whose feats are going to be written in golden words.
But, what would be the fate of those who want to return?
This issue would be 'solved in the context of a package settlement We will see to it that those who want to go will go. Those who want to stay back are welcome to do that. We would never exchange them against their will.
Are they all from the Muslim republics or are there some Russians as well among them?
They are all from the Soviet
Union.
You mean there are some Russians in them?
I said they are from the USSR. You can interpret it the way you like.
What do you thinkabout the fate of the Kabul government. You reject any coalition with the members of the government Is that so?
It is exactly so. We are not prepared for a coalition with the regime elements at any cost.
But Mujaddadi has said we will join a coalition government with KhaUqyar?
If he can afford to do so, he should do it.
Will you fight against that coalition?
. It is out of the question for him (Mujaddadi) to take the risk of isolation. If he does it, he will go just as an individual. I can tell you with certitude that a coalition is not possible in our country.	/	j
No Mqjahid will everimagine , to sit across on£ table with thos^criminals whosb hands are stained with the blood
M
W8: The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991 Wm
of nearly 1.5 million martyrs. Those who think about coalition will achieve nothing but shame.
The only solution is thatNajib’s regime should be removed and replaced by a provisional government acceptable to the Mujahideen. This provisional government should not have elements of the communist regime and supporters of the ex-king.
Then cease-fire be announced and elections be held. Anybody who is in favour of a just and durable solution,this is the only way. Those running after coalition and trying to carve out a place for the communist elements in the future polity are mistaken.
* They do not know the reality and dynamics of our society. Moscow knows it is the only way out but because of the insistence of Washington it cannot come out openly in favour of this solution. Washington knows that since her agents are the weakest elements and they cannot survive without a coalition with the communists, that is why she encourages her agents to cry for a coalition.
Would you not accept Zahir Shah either?
No, not at all. We will not tolerate people like Zahir Shah for one single moment. He is in our view the root cause of (he present Afghan tragedy. There is ho question^ accepting the symbols of aristocracy and feudalism in the present revolutionary situation of ' Afghanistan.
Jhe question is right of self-determination to the Afghan people. They should be able to choose their future government in accordance with their aspirations. The people of Afghanistan should be given the right to elect and determine the type of government they want. As we have not accepted the government formed by outsiders in the past. We will never accept such governments in future as
-------------------j--------------------
well.
Do you want to establish an Islamic Democratic Republic of Afghanistan?
We are Muslim nation. What I have been insisting on and will continue to insist is the right of self-determination for my people and to elect an Islamic government.
How will you treat the communists after taking over power? Will you kiU'them or expel them from the country?
We have announced a general amnesty for all those who join us, repent, their past and renounce hostility towards Islam and the people. We have proved our intentions. We have granted amnesty to the defence minister of the regime and this will be applicable even to Najib if he wants to prove his sincerity.
How will he do? Just by professing sincerity?
No, words alone are not sufficient. He must at least go to the extent of Shanawaz Tanai or he must step down, stop killing the Afghan people and repent his past crimes.
Moscow believes that participation of people like Khaliqyar in the coalition will be an element of stability.
How?
They think if the Mujahideen take Kabul by force it would lead to a bloodshed.
It is true, if the Mujahideen take it by force anything might happen but they need not be afraid of a bloodbath in case they talk it out with the Mujahideen and not the Americans.
%
Will you punish the people like ordinary soldiers, civil servants and inteflectuals?
No, the general amnesty is applicable to all those who repent their past and join the nation. We have proved that we never punish the defectors. ■