called out, "Allahu-Akbar" while raising	break out of the shackles of slavery and
their hands to indicate their unanimous	throw Communism into the dustbin of
approval	history.

L IMWI
Huge Crowd Responds to Hekmatyar on December 27th, 1989.
On the tenth anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, Eng. G. Hekmatyar, Leader of the Hezbi-lslami of Afghanistan, spoke to about 150,000 Afghan refugees gathered in a field near Peshawar and elaborated on the victories of the Afghan Mujahideen since the Soviet invasion and on the continuing Jihad. The following are quotations excerpted from his discourse:
"Afghanistan was not to be overrun like Czechoslovakia; this has been proved to the Soviets by the great Afghan Mujahideen. They will also be able to show the USA that Afghanistan is not like Panama.
"The war won by the great victorious Afghan Mujahideen had wbeen shown to be a monumental history-making war. Through their strong faith, their determination, and their physical endurance, the Mujahideen have solved the historical problem for themselves and for other subjugated nations - how to obtain independence from imperialism. Other nations will continue to find independence due to the struggle and victory of the Afghan Mujahideen.
"It is amazing that Moscow approves movements in Eastern Europe that are aimed at liberating people from the domination of the Communist parties, but in our country the Soviets are continuing their support to a regime that has been put in power by a foreign force and whose hands are stained by the blood of 1.5 million Afghans.
"Those who have made themselves ready to defend Islam, have picked up weapons, started Jihad, and have sacrificed, they will not be satisfied with just a military victory. After extricating the Soviets and their puppets, they will seek to put in place an Islamic system which will guarantee political stability, peace, and justice in the region. This system will prevent transgressions and will protect the oppressed.
10th Anniversary of Soviet invasion
Resolutions of the Hezb-i-lslami
Ten years ago on this day the sixth of Jeddy (the 27th of December 1979) seventeen divisions of well-equipped Soviet forces invaded
This great divine Movement will continue its travel toward its fulfilment until an Islamic government is established in Afghanistan and meddlesome foreign hands are cut off.
Hezb-i-lslami of Afghanistan once again strongly condemns the armed intervention of the Soviet Union in Afghanistan and their instalment of a puppet regime in Kabul ai.d emphasizes the following points for the attainment of our final goals:
"With the consent of the people, the reins of the nation will be given to pious individuals so that henceforth in our nation no specific family will rule and no one will gain power via coup
uphold freedom and justice for the people.
"With the consent of the people, and according to Islamic discipline,
power will be transferred to such a person who has the ability to rule according to the Islamic system. We will have a new political and social system, the new model which other oppressed countries are awaiting. This is a very important responsibility of ours."
At the end of his speech on the anniversary of the “Black Day” of the Soviet invasion, Eng. G. Hekmatyar asked the audience to show their approval of the following resolution of the party: “We will continue our Jihad until an elected Islamic government is established in Afghanistan”. The audience immediately responded with “Allahu-Akbar” and about 150,000 hands were raised in approval. •
Again, Hekmatyar presented a resolution: "We will confront any government that is imposed on our nation from abroad just like we confronted Najib, Karmal, Amin and Taraki." Again, the mammoth audience
Afghanistan in a bid to prevent the collapse of the Soviet-installed regime in Kabul and to quell the nationwide Islamic uprising in a "few months".
However, it was only after nine years of relentless war which resulted in the martyrdom of one and a half million of our compatriots and the forced emigration of five million others that" the Soviets realized they were bogged down in a useless war. The Soviets withdrew their forces from Afghanistan when they found out that perpetuating the war would not achieve their goals and that continued occupation was increasingly counterproductive.
The faithful Mujahideen not only repelled Soviet aggression in Afghanistan but triggered the most ;-monumental changes of contemporary times. The Mujahideen changed the course of history by inspiring the subjugated nations of the world to
1. Our Jihad will continue until complete independence and the establishment of an elected Islamic government.
2. No other than an elected Islamic government will be able to put an end to war and establish durable peace and security in our country.
3. All Islamic and Mujahid forces who have sincerely fought for liberation of our country from the claws of the Soviets must join hands and together foil all international conspiracies which are aimed at imposition of an un-Islamic government, dismemberment of our country, and creation of discord Sind rifts among the ranks of the Mujahideen.
4. We approve of the cooperation of the Afghan military with the Mujahideen in toppling the regime in Kabul and assure the military officers that their attempts in this direction will
d’etat, nor will anyone be imposed on our nation by international conspiracies. These past bloody events will not be repeated. We will have a strong Islamic nation which has the ability to defend itself.
"The fires of war are necessary for the financial growth of the West; they must incite the Asian and African countries to fight among themselves so that there will be a market for the sale of weapons. The day when wars in Asian and African countries stop and the sale of weapons ceases, the decline of the Western powers will begin, and they will face economic stagnation.
"Islam will fill the gap created by the failure of the Eastern and Western social systems. Just as the faithful Afghan nation has opened the way to freedom from oppression, similarly we must show the oppressed and confused nations that it is an Islamic socio-political system which can


16
have the full support of the Mujahideen if they establish a revolutionary council comprised of non-PDPA officers and the Mujahideen commanders around Kabul for the administration of the regime-controlled areas, and then hold elections within six months for the establishment of an elected Islamic government.
5.	We avoid attacking cities in order to prevent harm and injury to the life and property of innocent civilians. We do not approve of the missile attacks on cities. We have chosen the following methods for the coilapse of the Kabul regime: laying siege around cities, cutting off supply routes of the enemy, and intensification of attacks just on military installations. We allow the Afghan military the opportunity of cooperation with the Mujahideen in toppling the agent regime.
6.	Hitherto, we were not for the demonstration of the residents of cities against the regime fearing a callous and ruthless backlash of the regime forces against the civilians. However, now we would like the Muslim dwellers of the cities to raise slogans of "Allahu-Akbar" from their rooftops for half an hour each evening after prayers so that the regime can be reminded of the indignation of the populace against her illegal rule.
7 If the supporters of the regime withdraw their support immediately, repent their past, and renounce their enmity with their nation and Islam, they will enjoy the benefits of general amnesty declared already, and their cooperation with the Mujahideen in toppling the regime will be appreciated.
8.	The cessation of hostilities can only be guaranteed and the issue solved peacefully when foreign interference in the internal affairs of Afghanistan is stopped, delivery of arms to Afghanistan is avoided, the Najib regime is replaced by an interim government acceptable to the Mujahideen, elections are held within six months, and power is transferred to the elected government.
9.	We believe cessation of the delivery of arms to the crumbling Kabul regime will seal' the fall oL this repugnant regime. That is why we insist that all foreign interference should be halted and all arms supplies into
(continued on page 31 )
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
17