The Mujahideen,October I November, 1991 WWMmm&WM&Mm&Wm:- Page 39 mmmm%i
Affection of the Prophet for
Children
i

(Written on the occasion of International day for Children)
Before the advent of Islam the Arabs in general were very callous and cruel to their children. They would kill their small children as a sacrifice in the name of gods and deities. Sometimes they would kill them out of the fear of poverty. They would also murder little daughters because, to them the birth of daughters was a source of shame. The parents were unaware of die value of their children. They had no affection and love for the little babies.
Once an Arab came to the Holy Prophet (PBOH) and narrated hjs story in these words. “I had a small daughter. When she had reached the age of six or seven years, I dressed her well and look her out. Uninformed, she was happy with the outing. She thought we were going to watch interesting things. 1 took her to a lonely place out of the town. Already I had dug a spot. When we reached that spot I pushed her into the well. She was calling'Abu Abu’ while I was stoning her. At last she she died. Then I filled the well with mud and came to house alone.” The story was so tragic that brought tears from the Prophet's (PBUH) eyes wetting his beard.
Hazrat Mohammad (PBUH) came to the world to elevate man to high moral ground. He could noj tolerate this heinous custom. He forbade the Arabs from crimes against their* children. He called to Muslims,"Allah (Almighty) has termed the killing of daughters as Haram.” This was due to the Prophet Mohammad (PBUH) that the Arab land was made a safe place for little daughters. Not only they were safe bill got the dignified position unprecedented in world history. He told those who sacrificed their children at the altar of gods and dictics, that Allah Almighty has forbidden people from such acts. To the equal parties he impacted the verdict of Allah (SwT) that those who murder their children unduly are at great loss.
The parents who killed their babies to save them from hunger and poverty, Were iriformed by the prophet (PB U H) that •Allah (SWT) grants everyone to eat. Every soul who comes to this world brings his share with him. He preached to the people
with the command of Almighty Allah, meaning, that do not kill your babies out of the fear of hunger, that Wc grant you and your children to eat and that to kill them is a great sin. Once a companion of the prophet (PBUH) asked him about Gunah Kabira (big sins). He answered and said,“To kill your babies for the fear of hunger is also a great sin.”
Our prophet (PBUH) not only ended the custom of child-muder but introduced a new custom of love and affection to small babies. "He exhorted people to be kind to children. One of his say ing goes, he who is not affectionate to our children is not of us”. He called all the children “our children” thus showing his kindness for them. He would always demonstrate compassion to babies. He would pat and kiss them. Wherever he came across the little angels, he would be the first to say “Assalam-u- A Laikum” to them. Once an Arabi came to the prophet (PB UH) who was busy show ing his love to Hazrat Has an. Th is scene surprised the Arabi as it was against the old tradition of Arabs and asked, “Do you show love to your children? I have ten children but have never shown love to any one. The Prophet (PBUH) looked up to the man and said,” If Allah (SWT) has taken away affection and compassion from your heart, then w hat could I do.” To stress the importance of children he said,” If you were faithful, you too would consider children as a source of blessing and solace."
Fourteen hundred years before was the time when according to the author of “The History of Morality in Europe”, “Even the civilized law in Europe admitted the authority of a father to kill his Children. There was no questioning about this and child-killing was an oft repealed proclaimed act." By the very period our prophet of Islam (PBUH) called the.” children as a source of blessing and solace.”
All over the world, what to speak of Arabia and Europe, was oblivious to the rights of children. Children ^ were taken as cattle. But the prophet Mohammad (PBUH) had come to the world as a blessing, he granted the chi ldren not only eternal safety but through taking them into his laps, setting them on his shoulders and drawing close to his chest, granted them a universal respect and greatness for all the ages to come.«»
I '■
»<!!

li

