The Mujahideen, September, 1991
WMmmmmm.
gjjjjj	gl	Page	34	«
To achieve the world leadership America has to remove the following obstacles from its path:
1-	Political awareness of nations especially of the Islamic movements or we might call it the Islamic Renaissance in the Muslim countries world-wide. America has to face challenges from the ideology which has but still its principles based on soc ial justice, freedom and liberation of the entire humanity from and discrimination. This is why its a primary objective of Washington to prevent any Islamic resurgence.
2-	Though the United States is confident that communism is dead and no longer a threat to the capitalist ideology, it believes that Russia with its vast territory and abundant resources still have the potential of hitting hard back.
When the USSR enters free market and operates the capitalist economic system, the European nations are likely to end their past fuedes with Moscow, after all, Soviet Union can be counted as one of the European countries.
3-	TheindustrialissedEuropcancountricscspecially united Germany mightonce again, renew thebitter memories of World War II in order to challenge the United States inroads on the world.
4-	Any country that challenges the leadership of America, would surely threaten its interests world-wide if such a state succeeds in dominating the economic resources.
It is clear from the above points that US is challenging the whole world, and carefully calculated the obstacles that might exist on its way. In order to remove these obstacles and further enhance its rule over the affairs of the world, the US will try to do this at the cost of others. The American-led coalition invasion oflraq in the Gulf war proved this point. At present, the American onslaught is targeted against the Muslim Ummah which forms a formidable force against its hegemonistic designs. Although the existence of despotic and pro-western puppet regimes in many Muslim countries have suppressed the advancement of the Islamic movements, it is an explicit fact that, the awakened Muslim masses will no longer let these corrupt governments to remain in power.
America and its allies with all their strength and capabilities are deeply involved in destroying the nuclear installations of the Muslim countries. US-led-coalition attacked on Iraq during the Gulf War but such hostilities were primarily targeted against Iraq’s nuclear facilities rather than the destruction of Saddam’s regime. The same goes with Pakistan. The presence of the Israeli commandos in occupied Kashmir is a dangerous signal to Pakistan that US and the Jewish State arc ploting to destroy the nuclear installations of this Muslim country too. The economic turmoil and the lurbulant political situation in the USSR has taken away its courage to criticise the American direct military intervention in the internal affairs of other countries. The recent US invasion of Iraq on the pretext of liberation of Kuwait furnished a good example of the above case.
In the meantime, the Russians are trying to keep the Republics within the SovictUnion by whatever means possible and to get all of them to sign the Union treaty. The people and the governments of the Republics are not happy with the centre, and many of them have unilaterally declared independence from the Soviet Union. The leadership in Moscow is aware of this fact, and has chosen a peaceful method of transition from communism to capitalism. In order to accept the capitalist economic system, the Russians have to welcome the western political system too. The west, by imposing its political system on the Soviet Union, is out to support those forces in that country who are going to further disintegrate and weaken the Empire to the point that it could lose its status as a superpower. To compensate this loss, Americans will help the Soviets to keep the Muslim Central Asian Republics under its control. It is hard to imagine that US is a threat to European security,or vice-versa, because US considers any European instability as its own. This is mainly due to their common military strategy, political, linguistic, economic and religious interests.
It should be borne in mind that if Soviets are no longer considered a danger to the US security and if Europe emerges a stronger power, then US will inevitably face yet another challenge from its friends. To summarize the whole situation. United Stale has to change the political systems of many countries, remove the opposing ideologies and destroy many other anti-American forces to become the world leader. Is the US capable of accomplishing all these aims? The answer to this can as well be in the negative, but US is capable of creating such catastrophes as the atomic bombing of Hiroshima during Second World War. If the US is left unchcked and unchallenged in its vicious ambitionsof military, political and economic supremacies, its going to declare itself the world leader and will create a bigger and more dangerous catastrophe for the entire inhabitants of our planet.
Translated by S. Anwar Nasr (from the Daily Shahadat, a publication organ of HIA)
--------------------------------------------------------1