The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
\Page 19
b)	Acceptance of the fact that economic and military assistance of the U .S. to Israel is a permanent American foreign affairs policy.
c)	Need for more elaborate searches for new ways of increasing American foreign aid programs in safeguarding United States interests throughout the world.
(( JERUSALEM
The document also considered the issue of Jerusalem as a permanent capital for the state of Israel. There was also a declaration that East Jerusalem would be forever a Jewish location and is never to be an Arab domicile.
The document also expressed the concern and surprise of Jews all over the world on President Bush’s declaration on East Jerusalem as well as the American government’s decision to maintain its embassy outside Jerusalem. These developments, the document said, did not fit well into overall American policy in the Middle East. To this and other similar political and diplomatic tensions between the two countries AB AC officials demanded the immediate transfer of the American Embassy to Jerusalem. Similarly, the document emphasized the strategic importance of the American-Israeli alliance in the region, since the Jewish state alone could be regarded as the most dependable ally of the American opinion. As aresult, the ABAC felt the continuous progressive cooperation between the two parties should be accorded its due priority.
The document also expressed the concern of Jews all over the world on the increasing military threats faced by the state of Israel in the Middle East. The reason was the procurement of advanced military arsenals by some neighboring Arab states including the capability of some of them to deliver biological and chemical missile warheads to Israel. Equipping Arabs with the latest military technology against Israel has seriously altered the power-balance in the regime. This was in addition to the relentless efforts of Baghdad to produce its chemical and nuclear weapons.
( PL0 )
The document also mentioned the disturbing cases of the PLO “terrorists” attacks on Jewish and American interests as well as the persistent armed struggle of the Arab world against the state of Israel and its
The inspector general police of the Frontier Province. Syed Mosood Shah, has categorically dispelled the impression that the Afghan refugees were involved in committing crimes in the province, reports PPL
Talking to the Rawalpindi, Islamabad-based newsmen in Peshawar at Central Police Office (COP), he said it was part of the propaganda campaign of the antisocial elements in order to create bitterness between the Afghan refugees and the locals.
He observed that the re fuggees were good people and were not contributing in crimes such as robbery, highway dacoities and kidnapping. “Afghan refugees are our brothers and they do not create law and order situation for the government,” he added.
diplomatic offensives in the United Nation s Organizations towards the expulsion of Israel. Similarly, of much distress to the leaders was increasing American reliance on Arabian petroleum as a source of energy. The best bet for the West, according to the document, was to search for alternative sources. So that there would be a minimum dependence on the Muslim World. —
About the incident of terrorism in the province he said the agents of KGB, RAW and WAD were involved in the bomb explosions in which at least 290 were killed and 1,180 were injured so far.
The IG maintained that the Kabul regime had established a training center in Kabul where- from trained terrorists were being sent for getting further training to Moscow. These saboteurs after getting training in Kabul and Moscow, enter Pakistan disguised as Afghan refugees to initiate terrorist activities in the country, particularly in the NWFP, the IG added.
He said that these terrorists targetted important government installations and busy centers in order to cause immense damage to fulfil their nefarious designs.
IGP
DENIES REFUGEES’ INVOLVEMENT IN CRIMES