The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
Page 32
Kashmir
lilllilliplliiiiiii

-Mian Faqir Ahmad
The problem of Kashmir is today a burning issue for the international community. The spilling of blood of the Kashmiri Muslims has succeeded in attracting world attention to their just cause. It has also exposed the heinous crimes continuously committed by the so-called largest democracy against innocent Kashmiri women and children.
During the partition of the Indian sub-continent, the Hindu Maharaja of Kashmir, against the wishes of the overwhelming majority of Kashmiris who are Muslims, annexed the state of Kashmir to India. The people of Kashmir rose against the decision and started a forceful movement. They wanted to annex their state to Pakistan. They were about to succeed in their violent struggle when Jawaharhul Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, took the case of the Kashmiri people totheU.N. This move on the part of Nehru had the effect of cooling down the temper of the Kashmiris, it also slowed the tempo of the movement. The Security Council passed a resolution directing the Indian government to arrange for a plebiscite through which the people of Kashmir would decide either to join Pakistan or India. The Indian government accepted the resolution. Over 43 years have elapsed since the passage of the U.N. resolution but
the Indian government has still not held the plebiscite. They still occupy the land of a Muslim people. This illegal occupation by India has resulted in three wars between Pakistan and India. It represents a permanent point of tension on the Indian Sub-Continent. The freedom movement of the Kashmiri people has been continuing for the last 40-plus years with varying degrees of intensity. At times, the Indian occupation forces have succeeded in temporarily suppressing the struggle. It was in the winter of 1989 that the oppressed people rose with unprecedented vigor and vitality. This time they are not to be hushed. Do or die is now their motto.
For the past one and a half years the duration of the fresh movement, all the suppressive activities of the Indian forces have failed to quell the struggle for freedom. Frustrated by their failure
imperialists, as a result of the atrocities, expected an early success. But the cruelties and atrocities perpetrated against the inhabitants of the Kashmir Valley turned out to be an effective incentive for the movement. In this regard all the calculations of the Indian government proved wrong. The more crimes they committed against the people, the more fearless they became. During the Gulf Crisis the Jihad of Kashmir was overlooked by the world and its media, but the Mujahideen continued their struggle unabated. After the cessation of hostilities in the Gulf, the Jihad in Kashmir figures high on the list of world issues.
World observers have keenly watched how human rights have been violated in Kashmir. A carefully prepared record shows that during this period 11,000 Kashmiri Mujahideen have been martyred, 450
they have resorted to the worst kind children and citizens killed, 4000 of human rights violations in the	seriously wounded, 300 crippled,
Valley. In the beginning the Hindu	8,000 houses and shops gutted,