The Mujahideen, September, 1991

*Page 13 WKM
Turks spread Islam in Yugoslavia. Muslims ruled there for centuries. Even today, Muslim population in Yugoslavia touches the figure of 20%. Though Marshall Tito did his best to maintain unity of his country but after his death in 1980 signs of disintegration began to appear.
The story of Muslim suppression in Yugoslavia is very long and painful. Though still under an oppressive rule the wave of awakening is raging. Muslims demanded to be registered as Muslims when the first census was held after the world war II. But they were not allowed and in Serbia, Croatia, Slovania, Kosov and Mcqdonia they were registered as ethnic minority. The federation	of
Yugoslavia assumed its present shape in 1918.
Since then, due to the prejudiced and chauvenistic attitude of the Serbian majority towards the smaller nationalities, the country has been experiencing unrest and tension. The communist rulers have always been fanning Serbian nationalism in the Sebrian population.
Now they are reaping the same harvest. In
THE NATIONALITY PROBLEM

J
place of providing employment to and solving the economic problems of Serbians, they were being fed on ultra nationalism. This has resulted in the country's move towards disintegration. Serbs being the majority population, constitute 70% of armed forces of the country. In thcbureaucracy too they have great influence. Slovenia and Croatia are the richest republics of the country but they arc in minority. They provide for a great part of the budget which is spent on the poorer republics. They are richer than Serbs.
This is the Serbian superiority complex that compelled the minorities to struggle for cesession. Slovenia and Croatia have already declared their independence .Apart from ethnicity, religious considerations have also played a
part in the war of nationalities. Slovenia and Croatia, for instance, are catholics while Serbia is Arthodox Christian. In December last year 80% of Slovenians voted in favour of independence from Yugoslavia. After that clashes ensued between Slovenian nationalists and the Federal Army consisting mainly of Serbs. Like Slovenia, Croatia set out on a struggle of freedom. In response the Serbian minority residing in Croatia, decided to annex its territory to Serbia. Many have been killed in these clashes. At first there was no noteworthy international support for the freedom movement but later on America and Russia supported the peaceful resolution of the problem.
In neighbouring Austria and Hungary people supported the cause