to fight international “terrorism” which is basically engineered by the PLO. This organization must be held responsible for “terrorist” activities performed by any of its members.
Seven: Elucidating the role of Israel in consolidating American strategic interests in the region in preparation for the new world order. Emphasis must be paid on the observation that even though Eastern Europe and some other parts of the world have fallen to the wind of democratization the Middle East is yet to be changed. There is, therefore, an urgent need to create a new set of stable and powerful allies at this time when chaotic changes are engulfing the region.
Eight: Encouraging the United States of America in its leadership role of preventing persistent Arab attempts to expel
I The Mujahideen, July / A ugust, 1991	•
overlooked.
The ABAC press document also considered the following fundamental principles:
^ PEACE INITIATIVES
The document mentioned that the United States and Israel were strategic partners in the historic search for peace in the Middle East. The strong co-operation between the two countries developed profusely during the tenure of President Ronald Reagan and such developments were expected also during George Bush’s era as a standard for future Israeli-American cooperation. The continuous help and support from the Congress no doubt would encourage
Israel from the general assembly of the United Nations Organization and its agencies. Similarly, we are going to support the United States in its efforts of convincing the UNO to abrogate the spiteful resolution of 1975, that classified Zionism as racism.
Nine: Promoting fresh areas of joint economic, military and political cooperations between the United States and Israel.
Israel to be more determined in its peace initiatives such as theproposed freeelections for Palestinians in some occupied territories. The search for peace should be considered as a project that required patience and steadfastness. Recent developments must never discourage American officials and members of Congress from supporting Israeli peace initiatives. The United States should likewise realize that there can be peace in the region without the PLO participating in the dialogue.
Ten: Diversifying the strategic searches for the new energy sources in the United States. This is aimed at not only advancing the existing policies of energy consumption in the U.S. but in reducing the country’s reliance on foreign petroleum by developing sustainable alternative sources. Such a move is too important to be
The state of Israel since 1948, according to the document, had launched its peace initiatives inviting all Arab states to dialogue. Unfortunately, except for Egypt no Arab nation was prepared to recognize Israel as a state. The core of the problem in the region was the acceptance or rejection of Israeli peace initiatives in the region. The
^^^age 17
role of the U.S. in this respect would be to encourage other Arab nations to follow the Egyptian example by opening up dialogue with Israel. After 1989 new Israeli initiatives have appeared. The gist of these moves was the proposal of Tel-Aviv to hold free and fair elections for Palestinians under Jewish rule so that elected representatives could directly enter into dialogue with Israel. Similarly, such a move would encourage other Arab states to proceed in democratizing their various states. It would be of interest to mention, stated the document, that apart from the government in Tel-Aviv there was no other democratic nation in the region. The creation of Israel in this zone therefore could be considered to be a revolutionary development.
^ PRINCIPLES OF PEACES)
The document mentioned that both the United States of America and Israel agreed that the global socio-political situation called for an urgent change. There is great need for more political solutions being attempted. The continuation of violence in Judea, Samara, and the Gaza strips were some of the reasons thatmade peace initiatives obligatory. It was unfortunate, according to this document that while Israel was striving hard to seek a peaceful solution, the PLO increased its “terrorist” activities. Moderate Palestinians had consistently been subjected to persecution and assassination by Intifadah workers in occupied Palestinian areas for the former’s support of peaceful solutions.
Surely, continued the document, Israel with the help of the U.S. was prepared to proceed forward with its plan of entering into direct negotiation with Palestinian leaders from occupied Arab lands as well as sovereign neighboring Arab countries. The only condition for executing such programs, would be the unconditional recognition of Israel by all Arab leaders either within or outside occupied lands. If they could subscribe to this idea it would definitely amount to a practical demonstration of their sincerity and preparedness to respect the borders and security of Israel as a sovereign state. All these, the document mentioned, were necessary in creating the yet-to-come trust and seriously needed understanding between the two opposing parties.
From this perspective, the ABAC believed that it would be of great importance to closely study the possible consequences