s •	The Mujahideen, October / November, 1991	f -f. Page03
US Blocking Peace in Afghanistan
	
	
	
m//	Q )
	
This is an established fact albeit an unpleasant one that in the present world the western media is controling the flow of information which is often biased, especially when it is concerned with the Muslim countries or the Third World. The western media is also trying her best to misguide world opinion about the situation in Afghanistan. Presently it is engaged in a campaign to paint ‘Afghans’ as not interested in
peace in their country. The uninformed or little informed people about the situation in Afghanistan or the behavior of Afghan masses; or those who are living far away from Afghanistan, usually depend on western media for information on Afghanistan and the same biased information serve as a basis of their decisions
or conclusions. The western media is very adept in belittling the importance of a great success of Mujahideen on the battle front or political arena but blow up the minor disputes among various Mujahideen groups which are not unnatural keeping in view the activities of the agents of enemies who miss no opportunity in this connection. The CIA, WAD, RAW and even Israeli secret service Mossad is also active in
Afghanistan to cause damage to the unity of Afghan Mujahideen and to block the way of the formation of an Islamic government in Afghanistan.
So the propaganda campaign unleashed by th(e western media, led by American and British news agencies, should be seen in the
proper perspective in order to bring to light their malafide intentions.
The USA on one hand is hobnobbing with the Soviet Union and on the other hand pressurizing neighbourly countries of Afghanistan to accept a US sponsored solution of the Afghan problem. She is also using UNO as a tool in this connection; a sorry state of affairs for this prestigious world body. The people world over look towards UNO as a machinary for peace and human progress. It should help oppressed nations to achieve their due rights. It should in no case be a party to a conspiracy against oppressed nations. It is better for UNO to do nothing but it should in no case become a tool in the hands of a superpower. The Bush administration is trying to impose ex-king Zahir Shah who fled to the west instead of helping Mujahideen in their Jihad against Russian intervention. She is also doing her best to contact such personalities who decided to go to the western countries and even acquired foreign nationalities and she is doing every thing to install another puppet regime in Kabul.
The United States by doing so
r