Interview With an Ex-Minister
—-------------------------*-
By Attaul Haq & Zalmay Tookhi
Mr. Pacha Gul Wafadar, an ex-Civil Aviation Minister of the Hasan Sharq cabinet of the Najib regime, in an interview with The Mujahideen Monthly stated that the Najib government is demoralized and besieged. The Afghan people are facing great trouble and potential famine due to a drought situation in the government-controlled areas. Both Najib and the Soviet Union know that sooner or later the PD PA Government will be toppled. Following is the text of his interview:-
Q. Would you please tell us about your educational life and political affiliation at that time?
A. I received my primary education in a military school in Kabul; then I visited Russia to get a higher education where I stayed for six years in the Soviet cities of Kiev and Leningrad. After getting training in wireless mechanics, I came back to my country, joined the Air Force, and served for a period of five years. In the Daoud regime, I was appointed as Minister of Frontier Affairs.
In my educational years, I had no political affiliation because in those days the minds of our people were not so politicized.
Q. Why do you believe the Soviets invaded Afghanistan?
A. Soviet intervention was a flagrant infringement of international regulations, but was a part of their long term planning. During my stay in Russia, I witnessed such maps in which Afghanistan was indicated as a part of Socialist Russia. In fact, the Soviets wanted to proceed towards the Indian Ocean but their plan was blocked by the Afghan Jihad.
Q. When did you decide 1c stand with the Mujahideen?
A. When the Red Army invaded Afghanistan, I was Afghan Ambassador to India but I happened to be in Kabul at the time. Karmal announced that the only true Afghans were pro-Soviet
Socialists. The Afghan people demonstrated against the foreign intervention. The streets of Kabul were stained with the blood of innocent people. There were two options for me at that time; either to support Karmal or to stand with the freedom fighters. I decided to oppose the Karmal regime, joined hands with the Mujahideen and attached myself to the Hezbi-lslami of Afghanistan, led by Eng. Hekmatyar. I performed many things for the sake of Islam and my country, and I pray to God Almighty to grant me further opportunities in this field.
Q. How did you perform your double duties as a minister and as a supporter of Hezbi-lslami?
A. 'When I was offered a ministry in the PDPA government I consulted Eng. Hekmatyar. He directed me to accept the offer, but the government never knew about my relation with the Hezb.
Former Minister Mr. Pacha Gul Wafadar
Q. What was the attitude of the Russians with the Afghan officials?
A. They treated the Afghan officials like slaves. A majority of Afghan officials wanted to be closer to their Russian masters, therefore they obeyed every order without any hesitation, and still a large number of them are performing the same role.
Q. Why was Hassan Sharq withdrawn from his post as Prime Minister?
A. He was appointed by the Soviets to create moderate relations between the government and the Mujahideen. However, because he was a radical Communist and belonged to WAD (formerly KHAD), he supported the Khalq party and failed in his mission. For this reason, he eventually was removed from his office.
Q. Please throw some light upon the activities of WAD and the KGB?
A. WAD is a branch of the KGB. Twice they planted bombs for my assassination, but I escaped. All sabotage activities in Pakistan are done by the KGB and WAD. Socialist countries are basically controlled by the KGB.
Q. Can you relate some unforgettable events of the period when you were in the government?
A. One of my pleasant memories is when I heard Daoud’s announcement about democracy in Afghanistan Another astonishing memory of a different type is when I first found out from the news on TV that I was no longer a minister.
Q. How long can the Najib Government stand?
A. It will collapse as soon as the Mujahideen forces unite, because the masses are disappointed in Communism. Instead of war, national unity is essential now.
Q. A coup is a short cut way to bring change; is a coup possible in Afghanistan?
A. Every moment a coup is possible in Afghanistan! A coup is a short cut, but it is very dangerous, too. The only coup that will prove fruitful is the one in which the Mujahideen unitedly participate.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
25