'	the Mujahideen, October (November, 1991 wUmm-xPage 13
to join the communist regime under the pretext of forming a coalition govt, with Najib, Khaliqyar or any other member of the ruling clique, will not be different from that of Najib and his group. Mujahideen will consider this treacherous act as surrender to the so-called policy of national reconciliation of Najib.
-= if
Eng. Hekmatyar said that such elements must know that they would he isolated from the ranks of the nation 1 ike some of thei r collegues who joined the bandwagon of Najib and earned the curses of the Afghan Muslim nation.
‘These people might succeed in getting their names published in bold letters in the newspapers by opposing Jihad as they have no role in Jihad. However, this will not enable them to bring * peace in Afghanistan.” He remarked.
He said that this is a fact that imperialist powers do not want peace in Afghanistan. They either want a government of their choice or want to turn Afghanistan ipo another ; Lebanon. He called upon the neighbouring countries Jo refrain from collusions with the imperialists, by adding, that a strong elected
Islamic govt, in Afghanistan will be for the good of our neighbours and for peace and stability of the region.
Sept, 23:
14 military posts destroyed
Fourteen security posts of the Kabul regime have been smashed in two different offensives of the Mujahideen in Paghman District of Kabul Province. According to details Mujahideen launched an offensive on the 3rd battalion of the Kabul army in the Dilsoz area of Paghman District and destroyed eight security posts and set on fire eight tanks and killed or injured a number of regime soldiers.
In total Mujahideen claimed to have killed 90 regime soldiers and officers and also captured tens of different heavy and light weapons. Four Mujahideen embraced martyrdom in these operations.
October, 7:
■ Kabul T. V starts covering
Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi
-1
Following an agreement
between the two superpowers for -------------1-----------------
replacing the incumbent communist regime president, Najib by Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi, the so-called president of the Pashawar based Afghan Interim Govt., Kabul Television has started broadcasting his statements in its telecasts.
In its central telecast, on the evening of Oct. 6, the Kabul T.V. quoted him as saying “Hazrat Sibghatuliah Mujaddadi, the elderly Afghan leader has said that the Mujahideen attacks on the regime installations are un-Islamic and aganist the national unity.”
The Kabul administration being frustrated by Mujahideen’s current pressure over Gardez and Kabul itself made much hue and cry against Mujahideen in its telecast besides levelling false allegations against Pakistan. Though the communist regime in Kabul, with the help of superpowers, tries to establish a broad-based government with some mode rater parties based in Peshawar but the Mujahideen will never come on a single table with the despicable regime or Ex-king Zahir Shah. Such political maneuvers are against the spirit of Jihad and the principled and just stand of the Mujahideen. «»