Editorial
Reverberation of Afghan Jihad Echoes Around the Globe.
The statues of Laat and Manaai in Mecca were broken in 632 while the statue of Lenin in Lithuania, the Wall in Berlin, and the Communist Insignia from the Rumanian flag were torn down in 1989. Both of these iconoclastic events took place ten years after the migration and holy resistance of a group of Muslims against tyranny. In both 632 and 1989 symbols representing repressive and pagan systems were destroyed as a consequence of an Islamic Jihad and the accompanying act of migration.
In the case of Mecca the historical account is clear as to how migration and Jihad caused the fall of paganism, but how did the Afghan migration and Jihad contribute to the freedom of Eastern Europe?
The answer to this question lies in the success of the Afghan Mujahideen in reversing the Soviet philosophy of the "irreversibility” of Communism. This philosophy which was put into practice by the Soviet military had brainwashed many societies to believe in the invincibility of the Red Army. But the Afghan Mujahideen showed that the bad guys do not always win. The failure of the Soviet Army to crush the Afghan Resistance weakened the position of the old Kremlin policy-makers and thus brought to the fore individuals such as Gorbachev who desired reform. Had the Brezhnev Doctrine succeeded in Afghanistan, Gorbachev could not have justified perestroika.
In order to sell his perestroika to the Soviet people, Gorbachev had to point out the problems of the past policies. The occupation of Afghanistan was a living example of the senseless sacrifice of the Soviet people and economy for the Soviet expansionist schemes, so Gorbachev now sought to distance himself from the decision to invade Afghanistan. When government
officials criticized the invasion as "an error and ah immoral act", they were mostly concerned with the ruin brought to their own country rather than the ruin brought to Afghanistan.
On an international level, Gorbachev also admitted that Afghanistan was a "bleeding wound". He had to disavow his support of the invasion to cover-the fact that withdrawal from Afghanistan had become his only option due to the military defeat by Mujahideen and political defeat signalled by the presence of the ever-increasing migration of the Afghan people who refused to live under Communist repression.
Exposing the Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan to the Soviet public brought considerable changes inside the Soviet Union, the results of which are visible to
anyone. For example, Sakharov, a critiq of the Soviet-Afghan policy who was considered a traitor during preperestroika, became a hero in the eyes of the Soviet people before his recent death. As another example, some of the Soviet soldiers and officers who were awarded the hero medals of the Afghan-Soviet War repently retuned them to the authorities calling them "medals of shame".
The open policy criticism by the Chief of the Soviet Union has also permitted other Soviet groups to investigate and criticize the invasion, as the Soviet Central Committee (Politburo) recently has criticized the small size (numbering four) of the group of decision-makers who formulated the plan for the invasion of Afghanistan. The echoing of the criticism of Brezhnev expansionism bears the mark of those who also wish to find a scapegoat for the current crises in Soviet satellite nations.
Soviet criticism of the error of the invasion of Afghanistan has had a reverberating effect through its broader indications of the error of similar invasion and subjugation of nations over the past seventy years. Nations in Eastern Europe took Gorbachev’s criticism of past Soviet policy as a legitimization of their demand for freedom. Further, the extrication of the Red Army by the heroic sacrifices of the Afghan Mujahideen convinced the suppressed nations that Communist expansion was reversible. This realization was a turning point for the freedom-loving people under Soviet repression who courageously tore down the symbols of tyranny and demanded reforms. As a European analyst stated recently, what happened in 1917 in Russia was not a revolution but a coup d’etat; the revolution is what is currently going on in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
Although we saw that the Jihad and migration of the Afghan Muslims forced the defeat of the Soviet army and loosened the chains around the necks of the Eastern Bloc countries, the chains on the Muslim nations have been reinforced. In Lithuania, they brought down the statue of Lenin but Gorbachev insists he will use talks rather than tanks to deal with the Lithuanian freedom movement. In Azerbaijan, however, the freedom demonstrations of the Muslim people have already faced the Soviet tanks this year. In Rumania, despite the fact that the new Rumanian government removed the Communist insignia from their flag, the Soviet Union officially recognized the new government without a qualm. But, in Afghanistan, Gorbachev applies a double standard and monthly supplies $300 million of weapons and sends Soviet bombers to prop up a Communist regime which was rejected by the Afghan people long ago.
The continued Soviet aggression in Afghanistan may stem from their fear of the formation of anlslamic government in Afghanistan. An Islamic government formed in Afghanistan after the defeat of the Soviet Red Army and after a decade of Jihad will have a tremendous influence on the Muslim masses worldwide, especially on those Muslims living under the Soviet occupation. But why would anyone, except the tyrants, fear Islam, a system of ethics and social justice which is the only antidote for the materialism and decadence currently threatening human civilization?
The superpowers's behaviour
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
3