The Mujahideen , April!May, 1990
Journalist: In my opinion cessation of hostilities should occur and the conditions created for reconciliation. Both the warring factions should start dialogue, because Afghans are dying on both sides.
Hekmatyar: I say you should speak to the Kremlin leadership to stop the fighting by cutting arms supplies to the puppet regime in Kabul. Yesterday the Russians themselves were killing Afghans but today they are killing Afghans through Afghans. No one is more ready for reconciliation than the Afghans but until we are provided a chance for self-determination and until the puppet regime is ousted, we cannot accept a cease-fire.
Journalist:
Unlike the AIG you are against the formation of a Shoura. The Mujahideen in Iran are also against it.
How can you expect victory with such disunity amongst you?
Hekmatyar: We are all united in the face of the Kabul regime. We were also united in the face of the Russian troops for nine years and forced them to leave. The propaganda about our differences on minor issues is unfounded. We will succeed in resolving our minor problems. Our differences are our internal problem having no relation with others. Dissent is also present in Russia itself.
As for our stand, we want free general elections among our people so as to be able to form an elected government. We insist on this issue. Some time ago the representative of Reuter met me. He said that they had conducted a survey in Afghan camps and found that most Afghans wanted free elections and not a selected LouyaJerga. So what we stand for is the demand of the majority of the Afghan nationals.
Journalist:	You	have done
away with your membership in the AIG. The Mujahideen in Iran are also out of it. Why?
Hekmatyar:	The	AIG was
formed only for a period of one year. It was agreed that elections would be held within six monthsand within one month this government would be transferred inside Afghanistan. In case this did not
materialize, it was also agreed that the AIG would be considered dissolved. We parted with the AIG for its failure to hold elections. The Iran-based Mujahideen also want elections and elections, alone, are the solution to these problems.
Journalist: What is your opinion on the future of Afghan-Soviet relations?
Hekmatyar: It depends on the Soviets. We want cordial relations with all, especially with our neighbors. Moscow should prepare for future relations with us. It should accept our national freedom, sovereign equality and self-determination and compensate for its past blunders. We want good relations with Russia. We may be prepared to honor those agreements which are not against our national interests on the condition that Moscow has good will towards our nation. We want to befriend Russia if it does not interfere in our matters, and if it from now on sends us
tractors in place of tanks ( smile).
Journalist: Your position on the matter of prisoners in this war?
Hekmatyar: The prisoners with us are our guests. We wish they could go to their home land and enjoy the warmth of their mothers’arms. But this also depends on Russia. We cannot act unilaterally when war is continuing, thousands are bleeding daily and 40,000 of ours are missing. Their families ask about them, too. So how can we free the prisoners in such circumstances and that also unilaterally. In fact this matter is linked with a package arrangement about Afghanistan.
On the conclusion of your questions, I would like to take the opportunity to emphasize that you should not be influenced by the false propaganda of the Kabul regime. The Communist Russia spends 400 million dollars monthly on this regime which would be more beneficial if spent on theRussian people themselves. The support you give to this puppet regime has undermined your credibility in the region. Of what use is it for you?
This regime is destined to collapse, and wasting money on it is of no gain. This regime cannot last for long. Because a nation who rendered sacrifices of 1.5 million lives cannot be subjugated for long. This regime deceives you by propagating that refugees are returning to Afghanistan. Sometimes they speak of Mujahid commanders surrendering to the regime. This is all falsehood. Even at this time the refugees are fleeing to Pakistan from Afghanistan. We invite you to visit safely the refugees camps here and see for yourself and then convey this to all the Russian people.
Page 17
Translated by Faqir Ahmad.