The Mujahideen, July / August, 1991
IPage 38
Is Damans Am gw®it H©
ID 8 s <e Jt 8 m 8 m m H 3 © m
It is a great and, as I feel, rather undeserved, honor which the organisers of this Conference have so very kindly and generously done me by inviting me to address you thus to contribute to the aims of the Conference, namely to develop closer relations with the various religious groups, to present the teachings of Islam as they actually are, and to remove misunderstandings about, as it has been called, the most misunderstood religion in the West, so that the Western world may see it in its true image. I am most grateful for this honor and I pray Almighty Allah for H is help and guidance so that I may be able to do justice to the task which lies before me.
The topic I have been asked to speak about is: “Islam and Racial Problem." When it was proposed to me I accepted it very readily, even eagerly, for some very personal reasons which I may kindly be permitted to mention very briefly. When I was introduced to you, you were told that I am a German Muslim, a German convert to Islam. As a German national, who was bom in the twenties, I spent my childhood and my youth under a political regime which, by the gross and utterly shameful atrocities perpetrated upon racial minorities and by its dogmatic belief in, and its ruthless application of the “Herrenrasse”—or Master—Race Theory, meaning nothing less than the absolute supremacy of a “Germanic Race" over all other races living on this earth, has become synonymous with racism and like all the ills and evils, the misery and suffering, the injustice and brutality that go with it.
Though by sheer accident of birth, not by any personal virtue or merit and accident of birth, nothing less, decides life and death, happiness and misery, freedom and bondage under a racist regime— I was spared the fate of becoming a victim myself of this obnoxious and pernicious creed. I cannot and shall never forget the terror and excesses which marked its rule in m y country, nor shall I ever forget the plight and agonies of the innocent objects and targets of this diabolic and inhuman system of dividing man and man as I saw it practised around me in the formative years of my life.
It is against this background and with these personal experiences with racism and its problems and consequences indelibly engraved in my mind and memory that I so eagerly and readily responded to the invitation to expound, as far as my limited knowledge of Islam permits, the Islamic concept of inter-human relations, its high ideal of human brotherhood and actualization of this ideal in history, in contrast to the antagonism between the different races of man as preached and practised by racism.
Let me commence by taking you on a pilgrimage to the Holy Places of Islam in and around the venerable city of Makkah in present day Saudi Arabia, the city of the “Ka’aba." the Sacred Mosque, which, according to the Holy Qur’an, is the first house that was ever built on earth for the worshipof the One and Only God-lo Makkah, the birthplace of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), the city in which, and in whose vicinity, the Holy Prophetreceivcd the first and large part of the remaining revelations from On High.
This annual pilgrimage, or “Hajj”, as it is called in the Arabic language, is one of the “Five Pillars,” one of the five fundamental religious duties to be performed by Muslims.
Without going further into detail of the conditions to be fulfilled in order to be able to proceed on this pilgrimage, or of the rites and rituals to be observed in its course, let me describe in a few words the most striking and unforgettable sight that will present itself to your eye upon reaching the sacred territory.
You will see a multitude of men, women and also children, close perhaps to 2 million, from every comer of the world, black and brown of complexion, yellow and white, Arabs and Iranians, Turks and Malays, Chinese and Americans, black and white Americans, blond and blue-eyed Europeans—in short to quote one of our great Germanic poets, Friedrich Schiller: “Who knows the nations, who the names of all who here together came?
And there is still more that fills us with wonder: Whether black or brown, yellow or which, rich or poor, young or old, every male that our eye beholds is dressed alike, wearing two while seamless sheets of simple material, thus eliminating completely all marks and signs of distinction of dress between the African and American, the Asian, Australian and European, the mighty and wealthy and the poor and lowly. Here they have come, brother unto brother, sister unto sister, bearing witness to the brotherhood of mankind, to the equality of all human beings before their Creator, for it is to worship Him and to extol His glory that has brought them here. They have heard and heeded His call and their reply uttered, nay cried out by all and sundry, echoing and re-echoing from the surrounding mountains is:
“Labbaik, Allahumma Labbaik"-Here I am O Allah, here am I, there is none who is thy partner, all praise and blessing belong to thee alone, for thou art the sovereign, and thou hast no partner.
The pilgrimage to Makkah, the huge assembly of believers from all five continents, the gathering together of a multitude of worshippers of all races on the plain of Arafat is perhaps themost spectacular expression, symbol and proof of unity and brotherhood of m an as enunciated and upheld by the religion of Islam, and it is equally a symbol and proof of the equality of man before Allah, the Supreme Being , as taught by this religion.
The concept and idea of the oneness of humanity is Islam’s unique contribution to human civilization, and it came as a natural sequel to its cardinal doctrine, the doctrine of “Tauhid,” or the unity of God.
The doctrine, which runs through all teachings of the HolyBook, called “Al-Ikhlaas,” or Purity of Faith.”
"Say: He is God, the one and Only; God, the Eternal, Absolute; He begetteh not, nor is He begotten; And there is none like unto Him."
(Holy Qur’an:! 12:1-4)