iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii INTRODUCTION OF COMMANDERS iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.........................................................................................
A SHORT LIFE-SKETCH OF ENGINEER TARIQ
Engineer Tariq, 32, is a member of the Central Council of Hezb-l-lslami Afghanistan and acting Amir of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa. He is one of the founding members of Jihad in Parwan and Kapisa. Highly energetic, hardworking, smiling and sobre. He puntucally recites the Holy Qur’an and observes fasting quite often. His decision in every matter depends on the decision of the related Council. He is a very good practical Muslim, follows the commands of Qur'an and Hadith. He
displays patience and courage while facing problems All his action are aimed at winning the pleasure of Allah (SWT).
While still a student, he became an active member of the Islamic Movement and started his struggle against the corrupt regime of Zahir Shah. After high school he got admition at the Polytechnique Institue of the Kabul University - an Institute which run and watched by the Russians and it was the centre of Communist activities. The
institute invironments did not changed him despite the continuous threat of his licturers and fellow Marxist students. In return he with some others class fellow became the most active anti Daoud and anti-Communist group in the Institute. Being well known to the Marxist, he defected soon after the Communist took power in Kabul.
He turned to traditional Islamic education. Not being contented, he decided to participated in Jihad. He went to the Kunar province in 1978 and took part in many operations against the enemy. Then he was shifted by the Head Office to Parwan and Kapisa and got stationed in Panjshir. He established the base of Paishghor, an important centre for military and cultural activities of the province. Many Mujahideen from other parts of the province were sent to his headquarters for military and ideological training.
Later he was sent to Nejrab district as Commander and he made every effort to organize the Ne|rab front. As a result the Nejrab district was conquered for the second time and all the enemies of Islam were killed. A large quantity of weapons and ammunition was also seized as
The Mujahideen Monthly
43
November 1988