and booming cf guns that cause death and destruct ion. Do you know about the refugees hospitals filled with the Afghan kids, women and the elederly people?
Do you know about the toddlers whose legs have been blow up by the mines? If you visit these hospi tats you will see the bemoaning mothecs whose dear kids have been either killed or wounded by the bombing and shelling you resort to indiscriminately
The Afghans have ah ways spumed opperssion and that is why they have taken up arms against you You should think why do you kill people and what for?
Each one of you has his belbved ones. If you are skilled in Afghanistan, which is thousands of kilo-rpetres away from your motherland, just think about them. How will you reason out the grief of a mother, whose son has been killed in Afghanistan? What will you tel your relativesmabout Af ghanistan? You will not he able to say anything ex cept massacring innocent peopleo destroying their houses and villages, and burying children and women alive.
How long should the Russian mothers shed rears?
You should sit ansi think very coolly on these questions. If you can do nothing you can join the Mujahideen. The Mujahideen will guarantee your life and welfare. Please stop shedding the blood of innocent people.
Brigadier killed
On March 4th the. Mujahideen of Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan (HIA), under the command of Ustad Fateh Mohammad, attacked five Russian-Afghan posts around the Bagram airbase, the biggest in Afghanistan and located about 60 kilometres to the north of Kabul. They wiped out four posts and killed several troops.
During an attack on the fifth post a Russian-made SU-24 plane, while bombing the Mujahideen positions, was short down by the Mu-lahideen with the Zeaguak, a 14.5 mm anti-aircraftgun. The plane wreckage was strewn away near Dosaraka. seven kilometres to the west of Bagram airbase on the Kabul Salang highway. One of the two crew of the plane came down by parachute, who was of the Brigadier rank, but killed by Mujahideen for the fear of that rescue group might reach and probably they would save him. His co-pilot were killed when the plane blown up at
the air.
Later the Mujahideen learned from the documents discovered from the pockets of the Brigadier that he was, frqm ttje Ea^t per
9'apy
After the incident six helicopters took off from the Bagram airbase. One of them landed at the area where SU-24 fell down and the thrpe started hovering very low while the last two were flying in a big circle. The Mujahideen hit the first one on the ground with the rocket propelled grenade (RPG-7) and it exploded up along with the pilots.
At the same time the Mujahideen fired several rockets of RPG-7 on the other three helicopters and were able to hit one of them. However, the helicopter managed jo reach the vicinity of the Bagrarri airbase. Yet it went out of control and crushed with a government
Continued on Page 37
Parachute and Kalashinkov of the Pilot
The Mujahideen Monthly
31
Jan - Feb 1987