OUR STAND ON WAR AND
PEACE IN AFGHANISTAN
—
The following is the text of Engineer Gulbudin Hekmatyar's speech delivered on 8th January, 1986 at a huge conference held at Warsak Camp, which was attended by refugees, great scholars, Ulema, commanders, Mujahideen, students, representatives of refugees' camp throughout Pakistan and great A_____________
number of Ansar.
At the conference Eng. Hekmatyar announced Hezb-i-lslami Afghanistan's stand about the solution of the Afghan crisis, as well as, the recent satanic manoeuvre of Russians and their puppets under the name of reconciliation and cease-fire.
IN THE NAME OF ALLAH, THE BENEFICIENT, THE MERCIFUL.
Therefore, do not be faint-hearted, and do not beg for peace, for you and will surely gain the upper hand.
(Mohammad 35)
Brothers, Mujahideen, Muhajireen and dear compatriots!
Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullah We Barakatuhu!
Eversince the blight of Communism has struck the land of Afghanistan — 104 months — our nation has not sighed relief even for a moment.	,
Communism is ominous of blood and fire. Communism is synonymous of death and destruction. The red flag of Communism-symbol' of insolence and jingoism — has heralded bloodshed and destruction since its unfurling in Afghanistan.
In the course of past eight years and eight months one man has been martyred after every four minutes. After every 54 seconds one man has been forced to leave the country. And every twelve minutes one
man has been put behind the bars and persecuted.
The whole of our green and beautiful country has been ruined and stained with the blood of our martyrs.
There is no village which is not witness to destruction. There is no family which is not devoid of any widows, orphans and wounds or which has not been affacted in one way or the other in this protracted war imposed on us unvoluntarily.
Those who talk about the Red revolution, those who talk about the eradication of class system and restoration of the rights of peasants and workers, when took the reins of power in collusion with the Russian forces, turned the huts of the peasants and workers into their graves, their villages cemeteries and their tattered clothes shrouds of their bodies. The same people offered bombs instead of food to farmers and workers.
In fact the Soviet expansionism exposed our country to untold miseries and calamities. With a view to foisting the toadies of Khalq and Parcham on us, the Russians tried to interfere in the internal affairs of Afghanistan. And when our people rejected it and took up arms against them, the Russians invaded Afghanistan and triggered off this protracted war in our country. This is an open
The Mujahideen Monthly
6
Jan - Feb 1987