A Russian soldier, during patrolling duty in Kabul city.
good *and sympathetic relations with him and did not leave him alone. At the same time Moscow ordered the Parchamis to infiltrate Daoud's party.
The Russians still hoped that Daoud was a reliable servant but their concern deepened when a group of Arab delegates tried to bring Afghanistan and Pakistan closer together.
The move was leaked 10 the Russians by Mohammed Khan Jalalar, Daoud's Minister of Trade and now Minister of Trade and acting Minister of Planning who has served the KGB since he immigrated to Afghanistan from Soviet Central Asia.
In May 1977 the Kremlin ordered Khalq, Parcham and Situm MiHi to merge into one party, the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA). Feeling threatened Daoud reacted-by inviting the exiled leader of the Islamic Movement to return home and join the government. The Islamic Movement said there could be no reconciliation with the government unless Daoud agreed to the following conditions:
(a)	That Islamic law (Quran and Sunnah) should be recognised as the law of the land.
(b)	That the Islamic Movement should be recognised as a political party.
(c)	To release political prisoners.
(d)	To remove all Marxist Ministers from his cabinet.
(e)	To conduct fair elections.
Daoud flatly refused to agree
to the conditions and at a meeting in Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province, accused the Muslim Movement of being an enemy of Afghanistan.
Daoud's reply to the Muslim Movement gave hope to the Russians that he was still, at heart, their man but they were also fearful that the nation would
react against his rejection of the Muslim Movement's proposals.
As such in keeping with the Kremlin's policy of pre-empting any attempt by the Afghan people’ to remove unacceptable leaders the Kremlin ordered Daoud's execution. With almost 30 years of direct and indirect service to Moscow president Daoud was brutally slain on 27 April 1978 by his Afghan comrades. His death was typical of how the lives of Russian puppets end — slain by their masters when they no longer benefit the Kremlin's cause.
The April coup, which was engineered totally by the Russians, soon faced resistance from the Mujahideen and the Russians realised that it would take time to crush the Muslims.
After about four months the Russians realised it had made a mistake in backing Amin and Taraki and decided to send some of their quislings abroad as part of the ground work for future plans.
At the time relations between the Parcham and Khalq factions were deteriorating and the Russians suggested that senior Parchamites should be sent abroad as ambassadors. People such as Babrak Kar-mal, Mahmood« Baryalay, Noor Ahmad Noor, Ahdul Wakil, Abdul
Majid Sarbiland, Dr. Najib Anaita Ratibzad and Faiz Mohammed were removed from the scene.
The ploy served two purposes for the Russians. Firstly it reduced the tension between the two groups and'secondly strengthened the hand of the Khalqis. However, if the Khalqis failed to satisfy Moscow the latter planned to replace them just as they had done with previous puppets.
Within a few weeks of the departure of many of Parcham's leaders for overseas the Kremlin planned a coup against the Khalq faction for several reasons:
(a)	To win the trust of the Khalqis by informing them of the coup before it took place.
(b)	To blame the coup on the remaining senior Parchamites so creating an excuse for them to be removed.
The Russian's planned the coup partly to save the Parchamis from the terror that had arisen between the two factions but also to make •the Parchamis appear to be more respectable in the eyes of the people. The Kremlin hoped that the Khalqis would be • blamed tor the killings, torturing and looting that was taking place and the people would support the Parchamis. However, the plan was to no avail and people still rejected the
The Mujahideen Monthly
9