Fail of Taraki’s Village
By Abdul Saboor Shalgari
October 1989 witnessed the fall of the village of Nur Muhamma4 Tarakai, founder of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) and the first Communist puppet President of Afghanistan, after fierce fighting which had continued for about forty-three days.
This long awaited victory deserves a detailed study to bring forth the real significance of this feat of the Afghan freedom fighters. Why were the Mujahideen so eager and so determined to conquer this village and what led them to converge a maximum
force on this battle front?
Surkally is located in the Muqai District of Ghazni Province and was a stronghold of the Kabul administration forces from both a military and an ideological point of view.
Maintained and defended by the Soviet and PDPA Communists as the "Home of the Founder of the Revolution, "Surkally was a village which the Mujahideen considered a prize. The PDPA had been established by Taraki in 1965, and in 1967 Karmal split off with the Parchamis, leaving
Taraki as leaderjaf the Khalqis. Taraki became President after a military coup toppled the,. Daoud regime in April 1978. As Pcesident, Taraki signed a treaty of friendship with -Brezhnev in December: >f-9^8 and--attended a conference^of "non-aligned" countries in Cuba.1 Trt-September 1979 Taraki was forced to resign to make way for Hafizullah Amin (another Khalqi), and' in October 1979 he was assassinated. Taraki was dead, but his village remained a stronghold of the Communists in Ghazni. The Communists were determined to defend it at all costs because they knew that its fall was bound to have an adverse psychological effect on the Communist forces. For the same reason, the Mujahideen were determined not to accept defeat.
Geographically, and thus strategically and militarily, Surkally was well situated among the hills of Ghazni. Several surrounding villages protected it and, at the same time.^ould easily be
GHAZGIKALLY
-V-


Artist’s depiction of surkally in foreground and nearby villages of Nangah and Ghazgikally.
Mujahideen Monthly/January 1990
29