to the express teachings of the Holy Qur’an were sent by God to all nations: Says the Qur’an:
"And there is not a nation but a warner has gone among them”.
(Holy Qur’an 13:7)
But whereas all previous prophets were sent with specific missions to theirown people only the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) was sent to all nations of the earth, as the Holy Qur’an reaches us:
"O mankind! I am the Apostle that hath come to you in truth from God"
(Holy Qur’ an 4:170)
“There is no question now,” Says Allama Yusuf Ali in his commentary to this chosen verse, of race or nation, of a 'chosen people ’ or' the seed of Abraham ’ or the' seed of David: ’ or of Hindu Ary a-Varta, of Jew or Gentile, Arab or Ajam, Turk or Tajik, European or Asiatic, White or Colored; Aryan, Semitic, Mongolian, or African; or American, Australian or Polynesian,” The Holy Prophet Muhammad upon whom be peace and the blessings of God, was sent to them all—and that distinguishes him from all other prophets, and that also distinguishes Islam from all other religions.The message that was revealed to the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH) from On High was a message addressed to all nations on the earth, and the principles set forth in that message applied universally to the whole prophets, and Islam, based on the revelation which the Holy Prophet received, is the final and perfect expression of the Divine Will. Says the Qur’an:
"This day have I perfected your religion for you, completed My favour upon you, and have chosen for you Islam as your religion."
(Holy Qur’an 5:4)
It is the self-same God, the Supreme Being, the Ultimate Cause, the One and Only, our Lord and Creator Who has also spoken to us, through the mouth of the Holy Prophet Muhammad (PBOH), the words which I have already quoted earlier and which I
I The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991	■
should like to call back into our memory:
"And mankind is naught but a single
nation."
(Holy Qur’an 2:213)
“Verily, O mankind, We created you from a single (pair) of a male and a female and make you into nations and tribes that ye may know each other, (not that ye despise each other). Verily the most honored of you in the sight of God is He Who is the most righteous (and God-fearing, dutifid)ofyou."
(Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
Equality and fraternity, as well as liberty, according to the teachings of Islam, are religious commands, and only where they are conceived as such can these lofty ideals become reality.
There is no road to the unification of humanity, no road to a brotherhood of man which knows no boundaries of color, race, country, language and rank except through God, the Creator and “Rabb” of all that is in the heavens and on earth. Without absolute and unreserved faith in Him, and in the truth and universality of His revelation— without the will to serve Him, which is the purpose of our creation and to follow His commandments and guidance this goal can never be achieved as history tells us.
42
established absolute values by which we can assess our conduct and our fellow human beings.
"Verily the most honored of you in the sight ofGod.O men isHewhoisthemostrighteous, the most Godfearing, of you."
(Holy Qur’ an 49:13)
This is the yardstick by which in Islam man is measured, and not by his race, cast, or rank. Peace and mutual trust among individuals and nations alike can only be brought about on the recognition of, and strict adherence to the absolute values. Materialism, humanity's ideal in modem times, lacks all prerequisites because its value concepts change from time to time and from place to place. Islam is the only force which provides man with the spiritual and moral foundation on which lasting peace and mutual trust and respect among the nation of the world can be built. Islam is, first and foremost, an international religion, and it is by the grand international ideal of Islam, the ideal of the equality of all races and of the unity of the human kind, an ideal founded on the belief in the Oneness of God, that the curse of racism and narrow minded nationalism, which have been and still troubles the ancient and the modem world, can be swept away.
(This is a paper read at the International Islamic Conference in London by brother Mohammad Am an Hobohm, who is presently serving as diplomat in the West