The Mujahideen, July I August, 1991
\?age 06
The aim of Islamic revolutionary movement is actually not to personify its slruggle....even if the removal of a despot and his governors is a necessity for a fundamental change... Abu Abdullah argues here that it is the oppressive socio-political system which produces arid meantains tyrants
in power that must be taken as....
The path to a fundamental socio-political change in any society could not but be bloody and hazardous. An oppressive community by definitation is such a society that consciously allows or inadvertently encourages the selfish interests of a few to overide the common wishes and collective rights of the generality.
The driving motive behind Afghan Islamic resistance could also be understood from this perspective. There is the outside imperialists represented today by Washington or Moscow. Similarly, we have the puppet regime in Kabul formed from a broad alliance of secularists, Marxists, Conservative tribal lords, self-made nationalists standing beside their colonialist godfathers. Within the emigrant populace reside too the monarchists, opportunists, so-called moderates and other anti-Islamic forces.
To change the fundamental socio-political set-, up of the old Afghanistan in view of the active collaboration between these various segments of oppressive machinery cannot but be a difficult task. Though it has taken twelve long years in liberating a greater portion of the entire nation from the anti-Islamic ruling alliance but these spent days could be regarded as good training period for Muslim Revolutionary struggle in Afghanistan in trying to transform itself from a mere local brigade of “Muslim fundamentalists” to a broad global movement for a lasting Islamic resurgence.
The first observation therefore in this respect is to remind ourselves that the duty of presenting the Islamic case to the World, either to our co-believers in faith or non-Muslims or both, must never be allowed to be clouded with anti-Islamic orchestrated religious or partisan unrests. A good example in this context would be the Kunar episode and to quote Engineer Hekmatyar himself “It is a ploy by the enemies of Jihad that whenever they see the Mujahideen burying their differences, uniting their forces and marching to victory, diversionary scenes are created to obstruct their progress and give the false impression of disunity...”
From where does the puppet regime gets these sophisticated weapons
However, there had been moments of trials and occasions of joy for the Mujahideen, a situation that makes Afghanistan an experimental laboratory for Islamic field work. Afghanistan therefore becomes unique as a global revolutionary specimen both in goals and operations. We must all draw lessons from the past so as to correct those avoidable errors that were committed as well as open-heartedly implement the accrued practical experiences of our fellow brothers-in Jihad through-out the Islamic World.
With all sincerity, the Kunar case is just an illustration. The province apart from being among the first liberated areas to witness a free election, also enjoys the strategic importance of occupying a central position in linking Kabul with the North. Hekmatyar’s analysis is without doubt correct and timely judging by recent improvements in Mujahideen military strength and Western effort at breaking up the united Jihad front. We must ourselves note that the aim of Afghan Islamic revolution is not forcing anybody to become a Muslim,