target or details of the plan.
When Sarwar Khan and his Mujahideen were within 200 yards of the Khawaja Umari district headquarters, he divided his men into four groups. He sent one group of 25 to the highway, another 25 to watch out for militias, a third to prepare Dasha kas (anti-aircraft, machineguns) in case of air attack and the last group remained with him. The latter were armed with 10 RPG-7s and 15 Kalashinkovs.
The other three groups were told that they would have to attack any government patrols, convoys and aircraft coming near their positions but were still not told of Sarwar Khan's plan to attack the district headquarters.
Sarwar Khan and his group then boarded a truck which they had captured from the Russians and he ordered the driver to travel at high speed towards the headquarters. The driver started the truck and it was only then Sarwar Khan revealed to his men the target of their attack the district headquarters.
The truck took less than 5 minutes to reach the base and wnen it was within TO yards of the main gate the Mujahideen leapt from the vehicle and opened fire on the guards. The Mujahideen were so near to the tank guarding the gate that the crew could not shoot them.
Two Mujahids, one with an RPG 7 and another with a Kala-shinkov, climbed on the tank while a third fired an RPG-7 grenade at the top of the building where a radio operator was sitting and cut communications with Ghazni.
The remaining Mujahideen stormed the building and saw six soldiers drinking tea and listening to music in the courtyard while the Ulaswal (district administrator) was in his room. The Munshi (Politlcal-in-chargeL was on the roof
with two soldiers and a Dashaka machinegun.
The Mujahideen surrounded all the men sitting in the yard in the first few seconds but the Ulaswal and the Munshi resisted for about 30 minutes.
Finally the Ulaswal was shot dead in his room and the roof where the Munshi was firing the Dashaka was destroyed by a grenade from an RPG 7. The Munshi and. his bodyguards were brought out from the debris and arrested
Four soldiers who were on guard at the rear of the building were shot dead after 10 minutes resistance and two others who were washing their clothes by a stream surrendered.
Within about 30 minutes the Mujahideen had won control of the headquarters and everything was quiet. Even the communist militias in the nearby villages did not realise what had happened and some believed that the shooting was just practice firing or some members of the staff having a bit of fun.
In capturing the headquarters the Mujahideen seized two mortars with 1500 shells, 2000 hand
grenades, six heavy machine guns, two garinov machine-guns, 35 Kalashinkovs, 40 carbines, 300,000 Afghanis (US$ 2500), one R 106 wireless set, five pistols and a lot of ammunition.
They also collected five bags of documents which w^re very use’ful. It took them several hours to load 10 trucks with the arms, ammunition and documents - and deliver them to their headquarters.
During the operation the Ulaswal and seven other soldiers were killed and 15 others, including the Munshi and the district army commander were taken as prisoners. Most of the staff were either full members of the Communist party, the PDPA, or candidates for membership.
One Mujahid, sub-commander Mohammed Naim, was martyred
and four were wounded.
Since it was difficult for the
Mujahideen to drive the tank they set it ablaze and when the nearby villagers saw the smoke they realised that there was something wrong.
During the night the communist militias informed the governor of Ghazni about the incident and
The Mujahideen Monthly
21